66i CHOICE OF ANESTHETIC choose. Either must be used with very free air dihitiou, and only a light anaesthesia be obtained. " Gas " and ether, ethyl-chloride, and all closed apparatus are highly dangerous in the subjects of this ai?ection, for oedema of the glottis is often present and will be aggravated by any such limitation of the air supply. Operations upon the larynx or trncJtea are to be performed under chloroform. When the administration has to be continued after performance of tracheotomy, this is conveniently effected by pump- ing chloroform vapour into the traclieotomy tube, the mouth of a tube attached to a .Junker's inhaler being inserted into the upper end of tlie tracheotomy tube. Breathing is very cjuiet in tliese cir- cumstances, and care is required to ensure that the squeezing of the pump be not too forcible and that it coincide with the inspirations. When urgent dyspncea has been present, as in diphtheria cases, respira- tion may cease when anaesthesia is established. The surgeon should then open the trachea and insert the tube with all possible speed to permit tlie anaesthetist, by compressing the chest, to re-establish respiration. In breast cases, long administrations of ether are undesirable for fear of subsequent bronchitis. C.E. or ether should be used for the first twenty minutes, and chloroform afterwards, maintaining a light degree of anaesthesia. The same rule applies to long abdominal cases. In both cases, however, if the patient is feeble it is better to risk subsec|uent lung affections and use ether by the open method tla-oughout. For rectal operations, deep ether anaesthesia is best, unless contra- indicated by the state of tlie lungs, as in cases of fistula associated Avitli phthisis. The operation of circumcision in infants is best performed under an anaesthesia induced by C.E. or chloroform, and maintained with pure ether on an open mask. A light anaesthesia is all that is required after the removal of the prepuce. Perfect stillness of the lower limbs is only obtained by a very deep ana?sthesia in these cases. It is far better to rely on a light anaesthesia and have the tliighs controlled by an assistant at the moment of the cut through the prepuce. It is a mistake to think that chloroform is essential for infants ; many fatalities have resulted through performing this operation during a deep chloroform anaesthesia. ETHER Ether is a transparent, colourless, volatile liijuid with pungent odour and burning taste. Its vapour is highly inflammable, and when mixed with air explodes violently if near a flame. Ether bottles, therefore, must never be placed near a fire or a gas-jet; the liquid must