ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 175 At the end of the fourth day (Plate 26) the condition of things has become more definite. The micro-organisms aroimd the edge of the lesion, but within the area of disease, are very evident, and the local connective tissue has been busily multiplying here, so that leuco- cytes, connective-tissue cells, and micro-organisms are collected in great numbers. Newly formed capillaries can be seen within this marginal area, and are the main source of the htemorrhage which occurs when an abscess bursts or is opened. Aromid the focus of disease the fibrous-tissue bands which normally support the blood-vessels, nerves, and adipose tissue are swollen ; their increase in size gets less and less noticeable the fartlier away they are from the focus. From this stage onwards it is, in my experience, very difficult to demonstrate any micro-organism in any other part of the body than in the abscess cavity. By the seventh clay (Plate 27) all these conditions are still more marked ; but, although the abscess may be on the point of bursting, there are many parts of its margin which have no limiting fibrous tissue. Where fibrous-tissue wall exists, it seems as if the disease has extended to it accidentally rather than that the disease has been encircled intentionally by the fibrous wall. This increased presence of fibrous tissue may increase the power of local immimity, but it can- not be said to accomit for the limitation of the disease, because of its frequent absence even when recovery is occurring. The point is im- portant, and I must return to it. The dead and liquefied tissues, the emigrated leucocj^tes, and the collection of serum constitute pus. Pus can be recognized at tlie end of twenty-four hours in the centre of the lesion. When collected and examined it is a thick, opaque fluid, white to lightish-yellow in colour, fatty or greasy to touch ; it often possesses a peculiar animal odour, and the reaction is usually alkaline, but in abscess of bone it is sometimes acid. The yelloiv colour of pus is ascribed to the fatty degeneration of the leucocytes and other cells found in it, and also to the altered blood- pigment and the pigment produced by organisms, e.g. Staph i/lococcus pyogenes aureus. Sometimes pus is blue, the colour being due to the presence of B. pyocyaneus. Pus from the liver is often coloured by bile pigment, and may be chocolate or brownish. The odour of pus varies. Sometimes it may be most oft'ensive, as in some abscesses which develop close to the intestines. The B. coli communis is often wrongly blamed for this oft'ensive odour ; pus due to this organism in pure culture is frequently inoft'ensive. The ofiiensive odour of pus is often due to an infection mixed with a micro-organism of putrefaction. When connected with the urinary tract, pus is often ammoniacal.