888 HYDROPHOBIA In 1881, Pasteur and his pupils established the fact that the rabic virus is also found in the brain, in the spinal cord, and in the nerves. The bronchial mucus and the milk may be virulent, but neither the blood, the lymph, the muscular, hepatic, and splenic tissues, nor the aqueous humour of the eye, ever become infective. The bulb of an affected animal is by preference the organ from which to obtain the virus in a pure state. Trephining, and inoculation under the dura mater of a healthy animal of a drop of bulb emulsion from a subject dead from hydrophobia, will certainly communicate hydrophobia to the healthy animal after a period of incubation which, in the case of virus obtained from a dog, seldom extends beyond fifteen days. Inoculation of the anterior chamber of the eye with the virus is also one of the surest methods of transmitting the disease. The same is true of intramuscular injection, but an introduction into the digestive tract and the daubing of the mucosa most often remain ineffective. Up to the present all attempts to cultivate the rabic virus by arti- ficial means have been unsuccessful. The micro-organisms of hydro- phobia belong to the group of invisible microbes. Their dimensions are so minute that they can pass through porous porcelain filters or infusorial earth (Chamberland or Berkefeld). Emulsions of rabic bulb or brain thus filtered are still virulent; heated to 50° C. for ten minutes, they are no longer so. The virulence is destroyed very rapidly by feeble antiseptic solutions (sublimate 1 per 1,000. lemon juice, creolin, sulphate of copper 10 per cent., hydrochloric acid 5 per cent.). Light and drying in the presence of air have a powerful action on the virus, Avhich, however, retains vitality for a long time in a dry vacuum (Vansteenberghe). Pathological anatomy. Macroscopic lesions.—The macro- scopic alterations met with in subjects dead from hydrophobia are due to the more or less prolonged suffering, but present nothing very remarkable. The cord and the brain are generally in a state of congestion, the vessels of the pia mater are dilated, and occasionally little miliary haemorrhages even in the white substance of the brain are present. Schaffer and Gameleia have dwelt on the frequency of centres of necrosis and softening at the bases of the anterior and posterior horns, as well as in the neighbouring white substance. Benedikt has remarked analogous alterations in the grey substance of the brain, near the olfactory lobe and Sylvian fissure. Microscopic lesions.—The method of silver impregnation enabled Golgi to observe the form and structure of the nervous cells in the lesions now constantly recognized in rabic men and animals.