ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS by the wound of the products of micro-organisms. The micro- organism remains fixed in the diseased part, and its escape into the circulation is not a marked feature. One form of sapraunia is traumatic or surgical fever, in which the products of the micro-organisms are capable of acting adversely uj^on the living and dead tissues and \\])oi\ the fluids of the part (parasites). It is the type of fever most commonly seen in ordinary practice ; in former days it was the usual result of operative procedures—hence its name. There may be an initial fall of temperature to about 97° F., though usually the temperature rises at once to its maximum height of about 103° F. At that point it may remain for a day or so, then it gradually falls at the rate of a degree daily until the normal level is reached, at which it remains, the pyrexia having lasted three or four days. Traumatic fever is oft,en the precursor of subsequent more severe types of pyi-exia. The other form of sapra-mia nas little to do with suppurative pro- cesses. It is called septic intoxication, and is due to the absorption of products from those micro-organisms which are capable of attacking dead tissues only (saprophytes). The temperature rises to about 103° F., and there remains until the dead tissue and the infecting agent are removed. 2. Acute septicceniia.—The micro-organisms are parasitic. They are not only in the site of suppuration, but they have escaped into the blood and tissues of the body, and are there active. Hence this is a more serious condition than traumatic fever. There are never any secondary foci of suppuration, and, although acute septicaemia accom- panies some suppurative processes, a primary focus of sup2)uration is not essential. Acute septicaemia may kill an animal in seven hours after injection with streptococcus, and show no signs of suppuration at the site of inoculation or anywhere else. Acute septicaemia in animals is more typical than in man. The blood and some viscera (liver, lungs, spleen) may be found teeming with bacteria in animals which have died in a state of acute septicaemia, but in man this is not a very marked feature. The heart-blood and viscera may or may not be able to pro- vide material even for a culture of the micro-organism. The number of micro-organisms in the blood and tissues of man bears little or no comparison to their universal and overwhelming presence in animals. The condition of acute septicaemia may begin and end charac- teristically, or it may follow traumatic fever immediately or after an interval of a few da3^s during which the temperature may have been normal. When acute septicemia is established, the temperature rises to about 104° F. ; it may remit a degree or so during the day, but it rises again at night, and never falls to or below normal until recovery occurs. The temperature, therefore, is of a remittent, not