CHORION-EPITHELIOMA 579 In its relation to pregnancy, the development of the tumour varies, occurring sometimes after abortion, during pregnancy, shortly after parturition, or even a year or more subsequently. In one half of the recorded cases hydatidiform mole has j^i'eceded the development of the tumour, and it is of interest that in this affection proliferation of the epithelium of the chorionic villi also occurs. When fully developed a chorion-epithelioma of the uterus forms a soft, blood-coloured, flattened mass on the inner surface, or may appear as a more prominent fungating or lobulated tumour occuppng the placental site (Fig. 161). As the tumour increases it spreads in the wall of the uterus, distending the cavity, and possibly projecting into the cervical canal. On section, it presents the appearance of blood-clot, of which indeed the mass is largely composed, but at the growing edge of the tumour in the wall of the uterus yellowish-grey areas are seen in which the tumour substance is free from ha?morrhage. Finally, the growth may reach the serous surface of the uterus, where it forms smooth, rounded projections in which the ha?morrhagic appearance of the tumour is visible. Microscopic features.—In many parts a chorion-epithelioma shows under the microscope little more than blood and necrosed tissue, in which no definite structure is recognizable. Usually in certain areas of the tumour and in a narrow zone at the growing margin a typical and very characteristic structure can be observed (Fig. 162), consisting of the following elements : 1. Plasmodial masses of deeply staining protoplasm (syncytium), in which no indications of cell boundaries can be recognized, but which contain large numbers of irregulai'ly scattered or more closely aggregated nuclei. In some parts the proto- plasmic masses, instead of being continuous, are vacuolated by large, rounded, oval, or irregular spaces, producing the appearance of a large- mesh network of protoplasmic strands. 2. Filling the spaces in the Plasmodium are masses of small, rounded or polygonal cells of very uniform appearance. The cells are closely packed, have a very distinct dark boundary line, a clear non-granular protoplasm, and a deeply staining nucleus. 3. A large intermixture of blood and blood-clot. Rarely, in parts of a tumour the structure of a hydatidiform mole is reproduced, the cells being arranged so as to give rise to a vesicular structure. This occurs not only in uterine tumours, but also in those occurring in other situations, such as the testis. Of the two epithelial layers of tlie chorionic villus, the outer or syncytial layer gives rise to the plasmodial masses, whilst the deep or Langhans" layer is represented by the masses of small, clear cells. In some cases, especially in the metastatic growths, the structure is less typical than that above described. Thus, the plasmodial masses may be imperfectly formed, consisting either of isolated masses of non-