2l6 GANGRENE extravasation of blood is slight or absent, the collateral circulation develops, and complete recovery ensues or dry gangrene commences at the periphery. If the vein alone is injured, the limb below becomes dark, congested, and oedematous, and t}'pical signs of aseptic moist gangrene may appear. Should rupture of the artery or the vein, or both, occur, the blood escapes into the tissues in such quantity that the skin appears stretched to bursting-point; cessa- tion of pulsation below the injury is followed by considerable swelling of the limb owing to the pressure on the veins, while the slcin, which is pale and bloodless at the periphery, becomes tenser and duslvy-red towards the site of injury; blebs filled with clear serum rapidly form, the epidermis is easily rubbed off, exposing the derma, from which a copious exudate of bloody serum escapes. Numbness and tingling, or intense pain due to pressure, are felt along the course of the nerves. At this stage, if active surgical measures are delayed, moist gangrene, nearly always septic in character, com- mences and rapidly sjDreads up the limb, while the patient suffers with severe constitutional symptoms due to absorption of the pro- ducts of putrefaction. Lastly, in those cases in which all the tissues are destroyed at the site of injury, as happens when the wheel of a heavy cart passes across the thigh, the limb below, deprived of its vascular and nervous supply, naturally dies and as it was full of fluid at the time of the injury, the gangrene is primarily moist. The part is painless, inert, and functionless, causes no constitutional spnp- toms, and, if it could be kept free from putrefactive organisms, the fluid would evaporate, and it would slowly dry up and mummify. But if bacterial infection occur, putrefaction, with its attendant train of local and constitutional symptoms, will set in. Treatment.-—Immediately the case is seen, the most elaborate pre- cautions must be taken to render the part aseptic by the means described (p. 209). The limb should be examined to determine the pre- sence or absence of circulation and, if possible, the nature and extent of the injury. If the tissues are so severely injured that recovery of the part below is obviously impossible, amputation must be performed as soon as the patient has recovered from shock; but whenever the presence of undamaged tissues between the threatened area and the uninjured part leads to the hope that gangrene may not ensue, it is advisable to wait for several hours in the expectation that an efficient collateral circulation will develop. The delay is also advantageous by allowing the patient to recover from collapse which might prove fatal if the shock of an immediate amputation were superadded. If within twenty-four hours there are no signs of recovery in the part, or if gangrene has already commenced, an amputation should be per- formed above the site of the injury. If, however, a collateral circula-