INFLAMMATION 134 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION The term " chronic inflammation " is used to denote at least two different conditions. In one it is applied to the results produced by an inflammation which has lasted for a long time, but in which the acute reactions, though present, are not marked ; in the other, to con- ditions in which the main change is an overgrowth of fibrous tissue resulting from a slowly acting irritant or as a sequel of degenerative changes. In the first type of case all the ordinary phenomena of inflamma- tion are present to a greater or less extent; the inflammatory exudate is produced, and this undergoes organization, and may eventually be converted into dense fibrous tissue, by the processes which will be dealt with in the section on Repair. Side by side, however, with these repara- tive processes the degenerative and inflammatory ones go on. It is common to speak of chronic peritonitis or chronic pleurisy when we merely mean the results of an acute process, the whole of the inflammatory, degenerative, and reparative processes having subsided. This should be clearly differentiated from true chronic inflammation, where all the processes are going on side by side, though the reparative are usually in excess of the destructive ones. There are numerous examples of this form of chronic inflammation, but perhaps the best examples are found in diseases of bone, where the reparative overgrowth is seen in the marked thickenings which are constantly present. A similar chronic inflammatory condition may be due to special organisms that have a low grade of virulence, or, at any rate, pro- duce a weak toxin which acts slowly on the tissues. Such chronic inflammatory conditions are characteristic of tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy, glanders, actinomycosis, etc. In these conditions the ordinary inflammatory phenomena are present, but the special feature is a production of granulation tissue resulting from a proliferation of the vessels and the cells of the part. In this form of chronic inflamma- tion there may be exhibited certain special features, such as necrosis and giant-cell formation, these giant cells being formed by a fusion of mononucleated cells. In the second class of cases the special characteristic is the pro- duction of new tissue for the purposes of regeneration or replacement of old tissue. The condition is rather one of hyperplasia than of inflammation. The ordinary reactions which are seen in acute inflam- mation are absent. As a general rule, the connective tissue which has replaced the old tissue is seen in the early stages of its existence as granulation tissue. Subsequently it undergoes various changes, which need not be described