105 GONOCOCCAL INFECTIONS Gonococcus.—Urethritis, prostatitis, epididymitis, cystitis, iritis, conjunctivitis, and artliritis are all infections that yield to vaccine treatment, which should be initiated in the acute stages whenever possible. In the ^preparation of autogenous vaccine the gonococcus should be grown upon blood-agar for 24 hours at 37° C, and the emulsion killed by exposure to a temperature of 58° C. for one hour. The vaccine treatment of gonococcal infections has been tluis sum- marized by Stewart and the present writer : ^— "" I. Acute (jo)ion-/irea.—1. Gonococcus vaccine is marlcodly toxic and exerts a profound influence over the disease. "" 2. For routine worlc (hospital out-patients, etc.) vaccine treatment is not devoid of danger and requires the exercise of considerable caution. " 3. A stock vaccine, comprising a dozen different strains, gives results only slightly inferior to those observed when using a vaccine pre23ared from the patient's own organism. Tliis is not the rule in most other diseases. "■ 4. Small doses, repeated at short intervals, are more effective than large doses at lengthened intervals. '■ 5. Small doses of vaccine (from 1 million to 10 million cocci) are safer and more satisfactory than the large doses (from 50 millions to 100 millions) wliicli are often prescribed. '■ 6. After an injection of from half a million to 2 millions the negative phase is either absent or extremely transient. ■■ 7. An inoculation of from 5 millions to 10 millions causes a negative phase of usually not longer than 48 liours" duration, followed by a positive phase of from three to five days. '■ 8. Vaccine in small doses serves the double ^^nrpose of raising avd steadying the opsonic index. A steady index just above normal is found to be the most favourable condition for rapid recovery. " II. Simple chronic gonorrhcea.—1. Where the gonococcus has ceased to be the infecting organism, these cases are on a par with other chronic inflammatory states, but are frequently more difficult to cure owing to environment and local conditions. '■ 2. Chronic cases, where the gonococcus is the sole infecting organism, have a better prognosis from the point of view of treatment by vaccine than a mixed infection or one of staj^hylococcus only. ''III. Chronic gonorrhcea with complications.—1. The estimation of the opsonic index is helpful to diagnosis, and is a useful means of determining approximately the opsonic state of the blood. Chronic gonococcus infections, however, present clinical features wliich them- selves afford valuable indications during the course of vaccine treatment. '■ 2. Where tlie gonococcus alone is the infecting organism, if the ^Lancet, 1909, ii. 76.