782 SALVARSAN IN TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS from the needle in order to be certain that the point of the latter does not lie witliin a blood-vessel. For the subcutaneous injection the most favourable site is between the scapulse. The injection in front of the chest, though more comfortable to the patient, is more liable to cause a slough. In making a subcutaneous injection, our experience shows that it is necessary to observe certain precautions, on which Wechselmann has laid stress, in order to avoid the formation of a slough. The needle should be inserted into the subcutaneous tissues so that its point does not lie in the cutis vera on the one hand, nor in the fascia overlying the muscles on the other. The test of this is the ability to move the point of the needle fairly freely about in the subcutaneous tissues. The injection must be made very slowly, and the needle occasionally moved in the subcutaneous tissues so as to distribute the dose over as wide an area as possible. It is also advisable to introduce the emulsion by two separate punctures in different sites. When the injection has been made and the needle withdrawn, the emulsion should be dispersed into the surrounding tissues by massaging the site for ten minutes. The effects of an intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, apart from those on the disease, are as follows : Immediately afterwards there is generally some pain, winch is more severe in some cases than others. When the injection is in the neighbourhood of the chest wall there is often a feeling of constriction, which quicldy passes off. The immediate pain subsides within an hour, and is succeeded by one of a dull aching character which frequently prevents the patient from sleeping. On the second or third day the swelling and pain increase at the site of injection, which is generally surrounded by some oedema. This again varies with the individual, in some cases being very mild, and in others (the minority) so severe as to suggest that an abscess has formed ; that does not, however, occur at this stage. The pain and swelling gradually subside till by about the sixth or seventh day the patient is comfortable, though the site remains rather tender for a week or so longer. The temperature rises on the evening of injection, but not, as a rule, higher than 101°. With the increase in the pain and swelling referred to above, the temperature shows a distinct rise and may reach 102°-103°, subsiding to normal by about the sixth day. In a certain small proportion of cases, when a subcutaneous in- jection has been given, the skin and subcutaneous tissues at the site may slough. This may occur any time from twelve days to four or five months after the injection. The skin over the site becomes dull red, a bleb forms, and, finally, it becomes black or dark grey over an area about the size of a florin. The slough generally involves the imder- lying muscles, and extends for about half an inch into the subcutaneous