124 INFLAMMATION absorbed, or may remain as pigment within tlie pliagocyte. The bacteria lose their staining reactions and are gradually dissolved. In some cases, and especially with certain bacteria—-e.g. B. tuber- culosis and M. gonorrhoece—the organisms may remain in the cells for a long time with little or no destructive changes taking place in them, and in some cases it would appear as if they were capable of actively proliferating. The relationship between pliagocytosis and virulence of the organisms is somewhat indefinite ; but it may be stated, as a general rule, that the more virulent the organism, the less is the amount of phagocytosis, and the later is it in making its appearance. Extracellular action of the cells of inflammatory exudates.—Tliat living bacteria can be ingested by these pliago- cytes there is, I think, no room for doubt; but it seems to be equally clear that various substances contained in the blood and in the lymph have an injurious action on living organisms, inhibiting their action in some way, and thus rendering them a more easy prey to the leucocytes. MetchnikofE and his followers consider that the emigration of leucocytes and their intracellular action are the essential changes in inflammation, and that the vascular and other phenomena are mere auxiliaries. They maintain that the pathogenetic bacteria are destroyed in the phagocytes by a process of intracellular digestion. Nuttall was the first to show that the blood-serum had a markedly bactericidal effect, and this observation has been abundantly con- firmed by other workers. It is not necessary to deal here in detail with the great and important facts which have been elicited by further studies on this subject. Suffice it to say that the evidence is quite clear that the body fluids may contain various substances which have an injurious effect on certain bacteria and a neutralizing effect on their products. These opsonins, agglutinins, antitoxins, and other antibodies are of the greatest importance both in the diagnosis and treatment of disease. The various substances are derived from the cells—some, no doubt, from the polymorphonuclear leucocytes ; but the other hsemal leucocytes, as well as the fixed cells of the body, are probably con- cerned in their production. INFLAMMATION IN NON-VASCULAR AREAS The phenomena of inflammation in non-vascular areas are best studied in the cornea, and in this description I follow the work of Senftleben and of Councilman. The cornea is a transparent, non- vascular membrane, the fibrous tissue of which it is mainly composed being arranged in parallel layers, between which are numerous lymph spaces and channels. The branched connective-tissue cells—the corneal