772 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS atoxylate of mercury is gr. | on two occasions at an interval of three days, after which gr. J once a week until a total of gr. x has been attained. A rest period follows, as in the case of mercury or the arylarsouates. So far, I have seen no toxic effects from this drug. Dangers of the arylarsonates. — Although I have not seen one case of untoward results due to treatment by the aryl- arsonates, a number of toxic cases have been reported by others. The most common signs have been insomnia, dizziness, gastro- intestinal cramp, ataxic gait, and optic atroj^hy. Many of these cases seem to have been due to neglect of the proper technique, tO' over-dosing, or to the use of arylarsonate compounds which are of inferior quality or are not freshly prepared. Most careful watch must be kept for the earhest toxic symptoms, and the dose modified in amount and frequency, or, if necessary, the drug must be discontinued for a time. Advancing age and extensive organic kidney disease are contra-indications to their use. All solu- tions of atoxyl, soamin, or orsudan should be made up freshly at least once a day. Arsacetin (Ehrhch) solutions do not decompose on keeping, and therefore should be employed in preference to the other preparations. What effect the arylarsonate salts will have on the actual cure of syphilis, time alone can tell; but that in them we have a second specific as regards the disease in its earlier stages seems to be certain, and there is no reason why they should not be specific to the end. Two cases came under my notice at Rochester Row which go far to make me optimistic on this point. The men, undoubted well-marked cases of s}^hilis, had received a two years' thorough treatment by courses of either soamin or arsacetin, and both gave negative results with AVassermann's reaction test, although their blood had been examined on several occasions. There is a group of cases to which the arylarsonates ought tO' prove a veritable loon, namely, those in which, whether from idio- syncrasy or from debility due to climate, and especially malarial influences, there is intolerance of mercury. SALVARSAN TREATMENT This method of treatment is discussed by other writers in the next- article (p. 77.5). AUXILIARY MEANS Altlioiigh mercury, salvarsan, and the arylarsonates form the main part of the treatment of syphiKs, there are auxiliary means which are also very necessnry—viz. hydrotherapy, iodide of potassium, and