67 BACILLUS TETANI As a protective inoculation where there is danger of possible tetanus infection, a single injection of about 20 units should be administered. In urgent cases the antitoxin may be introduced into the spinal canal by lumbar puncture. When this is done, as much cerebro-spinal fluid should first be allowed to escape as can be removed without involving danger to the patient from an undue reduction of the intra- cerebral pressure, and the antitoxin subsequently injected. The withdrawal of cerebro-spinal fluid is of great importance, both because this fluid contains considerable quantities of tetanus toxin which are thus got rid of, and from the fact that otherwise the rapid introduction of the antitoxic serum might dangerously increase the subdural pressure. Following this method an amount of between 10 and 20 c c. of the serum can safely be injected. Intravenous and intracerebral injections have also been employed. The former do not appear to possess any advantage over the sub- cutaneous method, and in urgent cases cannot replace the subdural lumbar inoculation. The intracerebral method is extremely dangerous, and should be avoided, as even when successful from the surgical standpoint it gives no better results than those obtained by the method of lumbar puncture. The prophylactic use of the antitoxin has given excellent results both in animals (horses) and in man. That is to say, by its means the percentage of tetanus cases following such injuries as are likely to have been exposed to tetanus infection has been strikingly reduced. Further, there is now to be obtained a dried preparation of tetanus antitoxin which may be applied directly to a wound where the possi- bility of tetanus infection is feared. This preparation has been used, on the suggestion of Calmette, as a protective dressing on the umbilical cord in new-born children in Indo-China, where 20 per cent, of new-born children were said to die of tetanus neonatorum, and it has given very satisfactory results in a striking reduction of the mortality from thi.s disease. It is mifortunately difficult to convince oneself that the antitoxin possesses an equal value as a therapeutic agent. But a number of reliable observers have recorded most encouraging results in a percentage of cases ; and it is probable that many of the failm'es are attributable to insufiicient dosage. The antitoxin can only be said to have had a proper trial in a case of tetanus if it has been administered promptly, repeatedly, and freely, in large doses, not only locally but also by the method of lumbar pmicture. Doses of 100 or 200 units of antitoxin should be repeated as often as the case allows until some definite result has been obtained. This might appear to suggest heroic treatment, but it must always be remembered that the mortality of acute tetanus