INFLAMMATION 112 and the formed elements of the blood. The leucocytes and the blood platelets fall out into the clear plasmatic peripheral stream ; but, just before actual stasis, the leucocytes tend to return to the centre, and a general mixing of tlie elements takes place, though in all cases numbers of the blood platelets remain at the periphery adherent to the walls of the vessels. This rearrangement of the corpuscular elements is a purely physical phenomenon. So long as the velocity of the stream is mamtained at a sufficiently high standard, the formed elements occupy the axial part, but when it becomes lessened they tend to pass to the periphery. The leucocytes and blood platelets, being of a lower specific gravity than the red corpuscles, reach the peripheral stream first, but with further slowing the red corpuscles also pass from the centre, and a mixing of all the elements takes place. The blood platelets form the basis of all true ante-mortem thrombi, and it is because of their accumulation in the peripheral stream and their adhesion to the walls of the damaged vessels that thrombosis is so frequently seen in the early stages of the inflammatory process. The exact chemical reaction which takes place in the production of thrombi is uncertain. The blood platelets in their staining reactions resemble the nucleo-proteuis, and it is quite possible that they may be in part the source of the nucleo-protein (prothrombin or thrombogen) which, acting in conjunction with thrombo-kinase and with the fibrinogen and calcium salts normally present in the circu- lating blood, brings about the formation of fibrin and produces coagulation. Schema (after Halliburton^). From the platelets, and to a lesser degree from tlie leucocytes, a mate- rial is shed out, called— Thkombogen From tlie formed elements of the blood, and from the tissues over which the escaping blood flows, is shed out an activating agent, called— Thkombo-kinase In the blood plasma a protein substance exists, called— Fibrinogen In the presence of calcium salts, thrombo- kinase activates thrombogen in such a way that an active enzyme is produced, which is called— Thrombin Thrombin or fibrin ferment acts on fibrinogen in such a way that it is transformed into the insoluble stringy material which is called— Fibrin. 1 "Essentials of Chemical Physiology," p. 123, 1909.