BACILLUS GEDEMATIS MALIGNI 69 In bouillon the bacillus of malignant oedema produces uniform turbidity with a scanty deposit, and there is a very free formation of gas, consisting of a mixture of hydrogen, carbonic acid, methane, and a nimiber of highly odoriferous fatty and aromatic acid substances which together produce a powerful and very strikingly unpleasant smell. In a gelatin-stab the growth appears as a row of rounded colonies, at first small and translucent, becoming, later on, fused into a white line of opaque growth presenting short lateral offshoots. The gelatin is liquefied in a long cylinder, and gas is formed. In an agar-stab, growth takes place rapidly at the body temperature, and appears either as a felted network of diffuse growth along the stab, or as a series of small biconvex granulated separate colonies which become fused into a continuous white line of culture. Bubbles of gas are formed in the medium, which may be much split up as the colonies increase in size. Milk is coagulated slowly, and only to a very slight extent. The coagulum is subsequently dissolved by peptonizing action. The optimum temperature is about 37° C, but the organism grows well at the room temperature. Spore-formation takes place above 20° C, and is rapid at the body temperature. The spores resemble those of tetanus in their resistance to heat, to antiseptic action, and to drying. In dried-up tissues they retain their virulence for years. The organism is common in the soil of cultivated areas, and where- ever putrefying animal matter is present. It may usually be isolated by introducing a small amoimt of garden earth beneath the skin of a mouse or guinea-pig. When inoculated subcutaneously in pure culture it produces spreading oedema of a hsemorrhagic character, with moderate gas-formation in the subcutaneous tissue and the neigh- bouring muscles. Death usually occurs from acute intoxication in from 16 to about 24 hours. The bacilli are present in great numbers in the oedema fluid and the affected tissues, but as a rule the blood and the organs generally are entirely free. After the death of the animal, however, the whole body may be invaded by the organism in the course of a few hours. Washed organisms, freed from their toxins, may be injected in small quantities without producing pathological effects if care be taken that the tissues are not bruised or injured at the site of the inoculation, the bacillus being unable to develop and produce its toxins owing to the presence of oxygen in the tissues. On the other hand, when it is injected along with its toxins the latter, by producing cell degenera- tion and necrosis of tissue, provide an anaerobic focus for the develop- ment of the micro-organism. Intravenous inoculation usually produces no effect, as the organism does not develop in the oxygenated blood.