230 GANGRENE suffice to save the patient's life. From the foregoing it will be readily understood that all the forms of gangrene due to infective processes are of necessity moist. 1. Gangrene due to acute inflammation.—This form is particularly prone to follow acute inflammation when it occurs in dense tissues, and is typified by boUs, carbuncles in the skin, and necrosis of bone. Its mode of production is similar in each instance. Bacterial action causes such an intense inflammation that the circula- tion through the part ceases, either owing to the occurrence of exten- sive stasis or as the result of pressure on the vessels by excessive exudation. When bone is attacked necrosis takes place with great rapidity, for its vessels, being contained in rigid canals, are soon com- pressed by the exudate, and, if the periosteum is also stripped up by the formation of pus beneath it, the only remaining source of blood supply is cut off. Thus a large portion of bone may become entirely deprived of its circulation and die. Circumscribed inflammation in the superficial layers of the skin produces a similar result, manifested by the small core of a boil or the large slougli of a carbuncle. That the formation of the slough is due solely to the density of the tissues in which the inflammation commences, and not to the action of bac- terial toxins, is sufficiently proved by the occurrence of abscesses instead of boils in the flaccid skin of the scrotum, or in the thin skin of children. 2. Emphysematous gangrene (acute spreading trau- matic gangrene, malignant oedema).—Emphysematous gan- grene is characterized by an acute spreading infection, accompanied by rapid formation of gas in the tissues as the result of their inoculation with pathogenetic micro-organisms. It must be clearly differentiated from that great class of moist gangrene in which gas-formation is due to the putrefactive changes that take place in tissues already dead or dying from some other cause ; for in emphysematous gangrene bacterial infection leads to gas-formation and primary gangrene, often with- out preceding inflammation, while in tlie other form bacterial infec- tion is a secondary process. Many different organisms have been credited with the power of causmg emphysematous gangrene in man, but, according to Sargent and Dudgeon, only four can be considered as specific at the present time. They are : (1) B. aerocjenes capsulatus of Welch and Nuttall, (2) B. pseudo-cedematis maligni, also known as tlie aerobic form of Welch's bacillus, (3) B. coli, (4) B. cedematis maligni. In 75 per cent, of cases of this class of gangrene collected by Corner and Singer the infection proved to be a mixed one ; but in all probability the presence of other organisms, generally pyogenetic cocci, is due to the accidental contamination (with road dust) of lacerated