507 SARCOMA OF THE KIDNEY Sarcoma of the kidney.—In adult life sarcoma of the kidney is rare, and j)robably usually takes its origin in connexion with the renal capsule ; indeed, many tumours having clinical features suggesting a renal origin arise in the perirenal tissue, and are to be regarded as retroperitoneal sarcomas. At all ages it is necessary to distinguish clearly between the renal sarcomas and renal hyper- nephromas. In early life a tumour of the Iddney is not uncommon which is known by the names of renal sarcoma of infants, adeno-sarcoma, myo-sarcoma, and embryonic tumour. It is characterized by the enormous size whicli it may rapidly attain, often without haematuria or pain. Examination of such a growth shows that it is usually soft and lobulated, yellowish-wliite in colom', and sometimes cystic, and further that it does not appear to originate in the kidney substance itself but in the neighbourhood of the hilum, and that as it increases in size it displaces the kidney substance, so that the latter may eventually form a thin layer spread out over the surface of the growth. Not very infrequently the tumour is bilateral. Microscopically the structure of tumours of this class differs widely, sometimes in different parts of the same growth. In some instances the structure appears to be that of a simple romid-celled sarcoma, whilst in others the most striking histological feature is the presence of spaces or branching tubules lined with cubical or columnar cells, as in Fig. 126. On account of this structure the name adeno-sarcoma is sometimes applied to the tumours of this class. According to Nicholson, who discusses the subject fully in Givjs Hospital Reports, tubules can always be foimd on careful examination of tumours which at first sight apj^ear to be pure round-celled sarcomas. In the tra- becultE wliich separate the cellular masses, plain muscle-fibres are often present, and occasionally striated muscle, cartilage, and other structures have been demonstrated. Although for convenience we have described this form of renal tumour among the sarcomas—and indeed in many instances the tumour has for the most part a sarcomatous structure—it is clear from the above description that the growths in question are of a composite nature. The complicated structure can probably be most satisfactorily explained by supposing that tlie tumour has arisen in tissue derived from an undifferentiated portion or " rest " of a meso- blastic segment. The lympliatic glands are not infrequently tlie seat of secondary deposits, and metastases are most common in the lungs and liver. The prognosis after removal of tumours of tliis nature is very unfavourable. The mortality resulting from the ojaeratiou is still