DISEASES OF THE CESOPHAGUS 649 and when a suitable X-ray illumination has been secured, the patient is asked to swallow, the fluorescent screen being used to observe the passage of the food down the oesophagus. Where an observation such as the above has been made, and when, in addition, the bismuth meal is seen to be delayed in its passage down the oesophagus, in a position corresponding to the opacity observed, a diagnosis of carcinoma of the oesophagus may safely be made. A new growth occurring at the cardiac end of the oesophagus cannot be so distinctly observed in the antero-latcral right direction as one in the upper part, on account of the diaphragm obstructing the view. In such cases, however, if a considerable quantity of bismuth food can be swallowed quickly, it may collect at the lower end, implying thereby a stricture below that point. Plate 67, Fig. 1, is a right lateral oblique view of a case in which a quantity of bismuth meal is delayed in the lower part of the oeso- phagus. In tlais position it shows as a rectangular opaque area in the posterior mediastinum. A diagnosis of carcinomatous stricture was made from the X-ray observation in conjunction with clinical facts, and an exploratory incision verified this diagnosis. Pouching of the CBSOphagus.—In this disease, when the patient swallows bismuth food, the pouch retains some of it, in conse- quence of which the pouch becomes opaque to X-rays, and thiis one is enabled to recognize its existence anol estimate its size and position. The appearance of an oesophageal pouch distended with bismuth food is illustrated in Plate 67, Figs. 2 and 3; the pouch is situated in the position indicated, Fig. 2 being a postero-anterior view, Fig. 3 a lateral view. Simple dilatation of the cesophagus.—As in the case of pouching of the oesophagus, ample evidence of the position and size of such dilatation is obtainable by filling it with bismuth food. It is not always necessary, however, to resort to this methool, because the outline of a large dilatation may be observed without bismuth. Thus, in the case of which the raoliogram is reprooluced in Plate 68, Fig. 1, the outlines of a large pouch are to be made out (a). There is also to be seen (b) the shaolow of an olivary-shaped steel bougie which has been passeol into the dilatation. THE NECK The possibility of demonstrating the outline uf the trachea by means of X-ray examination has been pointed out by Professor Goldmann. The trachea can be recognized on account of the fact that it is an air-space, thereby casting a shadow which appears darker than the surrounding tissues and presenting an outline consistent with its shape. The normal trachea casts such a shadow as is to be seen in Plate 68, Fig. 2, in the position indicated. In cases in which the