TREATMENT OF ACTINOMYCOSIS 879 tiou, or spread to a vital organ. The prognosis is worse in internal than in superficial cases, and is especially bad in thoracic cases. The local lesions may persist for years, but if treated may ulti- mately heal with considerable deformity. Treatment.—Chief reliance must be placed on the administra- tion of large doses of potassium iodide, even more than 200 gr. per diem being necessary in many cases before any therapeutic effect is seen. It may be given by mouth or by injection. The surgeon should be prepared for the pain and rise of temjjerature that may follow its exhibition, and should also give it in high dilution. Mercurial injections have sometimes caused apparent improvement. Injections of iodipin (1 per cent.) have proved useful^ in one of my cases. Local injections of iodoform emulsion in vaseline have proved serviceable. Locally, surgical measures, such as excision, or free incision and curettage, must be practised in all cases that permit of their adoj^tion. Potassium iodide compresses have been used, but ordinary aseptic or antiseptic dressings are preferable. It is important to postpone secondary pyogenetic infection as long as ^^ossible. Washing out of the fistulte with hydrogen peroxide is of value. Daily local injections of potassium iodide (1 per cent.) into difi'erent parts of the lesion, as practised by Rydygier, have been followed by definite improvement. In my experience the best treatment consists in the combination of surgical measures with the very free administration of potassium iodide both by mouth and by local injection. Although Actinomyces bovis is aerobic, some of the closely allied streptothricife, which are sometimes found in man, prefer anaerobic conditions. If their presence can be determined, free incision and the use of hydrogen peroxide locally are indicated. BIBLIOGRAPHY von Bergmann's Si/.ston of Surgery. Buerger, Amer. Journ. Med. Sc;'.,'Nov., 1908. Delepine, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1889, and Encydop. Med., 1899. Dreyfus, Miinch. med. Woch.. 1903. lUich, BeHi: z. Klinik d. Aktinomyko^e, 1898. Leith, Edin. Hoap. Repts., 1894, vol. ii. Lord, F. T., '* Etiology of Actinomycosis: The Presence of Actinomycosis in Caiious Teeth and Tonsillar Crypts of Patients without Actinomycosis," ■loiirn. Amer. Med. Assoc., Cliicago, 1910, li. 13(51-3. Ponfick, Twentieth Century Practice, vol. xv., 1898. Sichard, Presse Midicale, ' \90'i. Stengel, A., " Actinomycosis of Cheeli following Injury bv Dental Instrument," X< ir York Med. Pec. 1910. Ixxvii. 9r.4. Widal, F., Bull, d, IWrnd. d, Mid. d, Paris. 10 Mai, 1910, pp. 392-401. Widal, F., Abrami, Goltrain, Brissaud et Weill, ■ Serum Diagnosis in Actinomycosis," Ann. de rinstitiit Pasteur. Jan., 1910, xxiv. 1-35.