SARCOMA 493 trasted with that of a deeply seated carcinoma—for instance, of the breast. In the sarcoma the skin becomes thinned, shiny and dis- coloured, and finally ulcerated ; in the carcinoma the sldn becomes thickened, adherent to the tumour, and often covered with thick epidermic crusts before at last actual ulceration occurs. After ulcera- tion has occurred the sarcoma protrudes as a fungating hfemorrhagic mass, whilst the carcinoma, as the result of necrosis of the tumour substance, forms an irregular excavation surrounded by a characteristic hard, raised, and often everted border. The metastases of sarcoma occur, as already stated, chiefly by the blood-stream, and are thus most common in the lungs. The secondary growths show a striking tendency to reproduce in all its details the structure of the primary tumour, and the appearance of masses of chondrifying or ossifying sarcoma in the lungs forms a very remarkable picture. Although the tendency to invasion of the lymphatic glands is much less common than in carcinoma, the difference in the behaviour of the two classes of malignant growth in this respect is only a relative one, and in many cases of sarcoma, especially in certain situations, secondary deposits in the lymphatic glands will be found. Although the metastases by way of the blood-stream are most common in the lungs, they may also occur in the abdominal viscera, bones and skin, and in rare cases a generalized sarcomatosis occurs. Meta.stases sometimes result from the direct extension of the primary tumour into a neighbouring vein. Thus, a sarcoma of the kidney may extend through the renal vein into the vena cava, and in some forms of abdominal sarcoma the implication of the portal veiji or one of its tributaries in tin's way is followed by secondary deposits in the liver. The diagnosis of sarcoma must for the most part be left for consideration when the disease is described in special situations, and only a few points having a general bearing on the subject can be mentioned here. The difficulty which presents itself is more often concerned with the differentiation of sarcoma from various inflammatory conditions than from other forms of new growth. Thus, a soft, deeply seated sarcoma may, in its clinical features, closely resemble a chronic abscess. Again, a syphilitic gumma—for instance, of a muscle—may so closely resemble a sarcoma that only the fact that the tumour steadily increases in spite of antisyphilitic treatment serves to suggest the more serious nature of the case. Sarcoma of a bone in its early stages may be cUnically indistinguishable from several conditions of an inflammatory nature, such as a central abscess and various forms of osteitis and periostitis, resulting especially from syphilis and tuberculosis. In doubtful cases the detection of pulsation may be of the greatest importance in diagnosis, and may indeed prove to be the only ground upon which a correct conclusion is to be based.