APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY lOO rapidly fall, perhaps with serious results to the patient (Fig. 4). On Its duration is increased by a larger dose, and reduced, or even eliminated altogether, by a smaller dose. During this period, altliougli no appreciable rise of temperature occurs whicli can be directly attri- buted to the injection of the vaccine (unless an excessive dose has been administered), the patient sometimes complains of not feeling well, and any local lesion that may be present is objectively worse— the discharge from a sinus increases in amount; in a cystitis there Fig. 3.—The opsonic cycle. is an increase in frequency of micturition, and more pus is present in the urine; in furunculosis a fresh crop of boils may appear, and so on. As a result of the stimulus provided by the vaccine, fi-esh sup- plies of opsonin are elaborated and discharged into the serum, and the negative phase is succeeded by a positive phase, during which the opsonin index rises slowly or rapidly to a maximum, a subjective sense of well-being is experienced, pyrexia diminishes, often rapidly, and cHnicallv the improvement is marked. After reaching the maximum, the index frequently oscillates slightly for a day or two, and then comes to rest, and a con- dition of equilibrium is established, in which the index is maintained at a higher level than it occupied before the injection, although even now not necessarily at or above the normal. This state of -equili- Fig, 4.—Opsonic index, showing brium, after a period varying with rapid fall. different individuals, with the size of the dose, etc., declines either gradually or rapidly until it has fallen to, or below, its original position. A repetition of the dose of vaccine now causes a repetition in their entirety of the phenomena already detailed. This opsonic cycle is graphically represented by the curve in Fig. 3. If, however, a second dose of vaccine is administered during the negative phase induced by the first injection, a cumulative action is noted, and a second negative phase is superposed on the first; the opsonic index will then