612 EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD for those cases in which there is an absolute increase in the poly- morphonuclear cells in the peripheral blood (Plate 1, Fig. 1). Tliis increase may be physiological or pathological. Physiological increase is seen after food, but this increase is never very considerable. Attempts have been made to utilize this digestion-leucocytosis as an aid to differential diagnosis between simple ulcer and cancer of the stomach, it being alleged that in the latter digestion - leucocytosis is absent. This statement, however, is not fully borne out, for in some cases of gastric cancer the leucocytosis certainly occurs. During the last months of pregnancy the leucocytes may reach an average of 12,000 or 13,000. By some authorities—e.g. von Limbeck —this is regarded merely as a digestion-leucocytosis, brought about by the need of additional nourishment for both mother and child. Others regard the leucocytosis as a result of auto-intoxication. Apart from the conditions stated, it may be taken as a general rule that a leucocytosis of 12,000 or more means the absorption of toxic or bacterial products, and must be regarded as a means of protection. A good leucocyte response is favourable, and a feeble leucocytosis means very often that the attacking agent is extremely virulent, or that the leucocyte-forming tissues are exhausted. The severity of an attack is not proportioned to the leucocytosis ; a very slight abscess may bring about a great increase in leucocytes, whilst a fatal infection may give rise to a very sUght increase. On the other hand, a good leucocyte response very often means a hopeful prognosis. A leucocytosis, no matter how marked, is of no value in deter- mining the site or even the exact natm-e of the focus of infection. Thus, acute cerebro-spinal meningitis will give a leucocyte count of 40,000, but a similar degree of leucocytosis may be found in a case of peritonitis. Localized pus-formation in any part of the body gives rise to a leucocytosis, and it is therefore obvious that blood ex- amination can only be of value in combination with other diagnostic methods. A single examination of the blood may in some cases be of great value, but systematic and regular examination from day to day is much more important, at any rate from the point of view of the surgeon. It may be laid down as a general rule that, in a man whose leu- cocyte-forming tissues are in good condition, a gradually increasing leucocytosis means a gradual spread of the inflammatory process, and therefore may be an indication for operative interference. Emerson states that at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, in appendicitis and in all acute abdominal cases, after the first suggestive symptom the leucocytes are counted every hour, and that with a rising leu-