ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS 189 1. In the examination of the blood its opsonic index may be estimated and the leucocytes counted, and especially cultures should be made from it. The amount of blood withdrawn for examination should be from 5 to 10 c.c. Care should be taken to determine the aggluti- nating jsroperty of the serum towards the suspected micro-organism; this is especially valuable in case of B. typhosus (Widal's reaction), B. pyoc/jcmeus, and B. coli. In staphylomycosis and streptomycosis I have not been able to satisfy myself that the application of homologous serums aids the diagnosis. 2. In most cases of acute circumscribed and acute diffuse suppuration examination of the pus alone will afford all the evidence needed, but a more certain method of demonstrating the micro-organism is to examine a scraping from the margin of the abscess cavity. The examination, to be complete, should include staining, growth on artificial media, plate cultivation, and inoculation into animals. It should be conducted in all cases in which the least doubt exists, and in those cases in which recovery does not occur as rapidly as the surgeon would expect, and where, possibly, a more serious infection exists than that which he believed he was treating. But to examine the blood, and stain, cultivate, and inoculate the tissues into animals, in every case of suppuration, is not possible in ordinary practice. The minimum practice should be to stain jdus or a scraping from the margin of the disease in all cases of suppuration ; should the clinical behaviour of the case correspond to the usual results caused by the micro-organism discovered, nothing more need be done unless a vaccine for its treat- ment be desirable : in this case a culture, and probably a plate culture, must be made. Treatment.—The treatment both of acute circumscribed abscess and of acute diffuse suppuration must be (1) local, and (2) consti- tutional. 1. Local, i. Preventive.—It has been suggested that as a part of the preparation of cases for operation, where the wound is likely to suppurate on account of its proximity to septic sources, a preliminary injection of antitoxic serum or vaccine should be given. Unfortunately it is not as yet possible to obtain an antitoxic serum that protects an animal with any degree of certainty from the toxins produced by any of the micro-organisms which induce suppuration. Anti- streptococcic serum, in my experience, is practically valueless. The same may be said of a serum which W. Bulloch and I obtained from a horse that we inoculated with staphylococcus ; the serum obtained was quite ineffectual either as a preventive or as a curative agent. A more hopeful preventive of suppuration than any antitoxic serum is the preliminary inoculation of vaccines, and perhaps in cases where extensive and dangerous suppuration is expected it would be