44° TUMOURS universally, held that they arise in displaced fragments of adrenal tissue or " adrenal rests." It is well known that occasionally the whole or a large part of the adrenal body may be absent from its normal situation and be contained within the renal capsule. Numerous observations have, however, shown that, even when the adrenal bodies themselves are normal, rests of adrenal tissue may be found in such situations as the kidney, liver, solar plexus, mesentery, or along the course of the spermatic and ovarian vessels, as, for instance, in the spermatic cord, testicle, and between the layers of the broad ligament. In several of these situations tumours having apparently an adrenal structure have been found. It was Grawitz who, in 1883, first proved that certain small, white or yellowish-white nodides occasionally found beneath the renal cortex, and indistinguishable with the naked eye from small fatty or adenomatous growths, are in reality " adrenal rests," and further suggested that certain renal tumours arise from them. The microscopic examination of the renal tumours in question seems to leave little doubt that this view is correct, and justifies the name " renal hypernephroma " or " adrenal adenoma of the kidney." The structure, as illustrated in Fig. 98, is practically identical with that of the adrenal cortex, and agrees with that of adenomas of the adrenal itself above described. The macroscopic appearances of the same tumour are illustrated in Plate 32. The growth, which displaces, rather than invades, the adjacent renal substance, is often markedly lobulated, and whilst some of the lobules present a characteristic orange-yellow colour, others are dark red and hsemorrhagic. The clinical course of a renal hypernephroma supports the view that for even long periods the tumour is benign in nature. Thus, in the case from which the tumour here illustrated was removed, there had been attacks of hsematuria, associated with discomfort in the left renal region, for a period of seven years ; and among the cases collected by Owen Richards, and published in Guy's Hospital Reports, are one in which pain had been present for twenty years, and two in which a tumour had existed for thirty-five and seventeen years re- spectively. Hfematuria is a very common, and often the first, symptom. In addition to the benign hypernephroma of the kidney, other tumours occur wliich, although very similar in structure, pursue a mahgnant course. Such tumours may in parts be indistinguish- able from the simple form, but in other parts the structure is atypical—the cells are irregular in shape, lose their fatty contents, and may project in irregular masses into the vessels, which become transformed into wide venous spaces. Although considerable differ- ence of opinion exists on tliis subject, it seems probable that these malignant growths also originate in adrenal rests, and not from the