CARCINOMA OF THE PROSTATE 557 simplex is the only form which occurs primarily in the gland. The tumour is usually of the hard variety, and the extreme hardness and irregularity of the gland are the chief physical signs of the disease. According to Thomson Walker, the average age at wliich symptoms first appear is 65 years, and as this is practically the same as that of the simple enlargement, the nature of the disease is likely to be over- looked until it is very advanced. The softer forms of carcinoma are rare, and occasionally the growth undergoes colloid degenera- tion. Evidence goes to show that carcinoma of the prostate not infrequently arises in a gland which is already the seat of the ordinary simple enlargement. Thomson Walker finds that the growth tends to spread in two chief directions—upwards along the base of the bladder, and laterally towards the sides of the pelvis, obliterating the sulcus which is nor- mally felt with the finger on either side of the gland. The deeply seated position of the growth and the usual absence of ulceration serve to explain the frequent absence of hferaaturia, as compared with a carcinoma of the mucous membrane of the bladder. The most frequent seat of secondary deposits is the iutrapelvic lymphatic glands, which may be felt by rectal examination. Walker states that a gland lying just beyond the prostate, close to the vesicula seminalis, is fre- quently enlarged, and also that in 16 per cent, of cases the inguinal glands are enlarged and hard. In a doubtful case an inguinal gland which was removed was found to contain a secondary deposit of growth. Carcinoma of the prostate is of special interest on account of the frequency with which secondary deposits occur in the bones. Accord- ing to Kauffmann, osseous deposits were noted in 14 per cent, of recorded cases, but among 22 cases specially examined for sucli deposits they were present in no less than 16. Von Recklinghausen found that the bones were affected in the following order, viz. vertebra?, femur, pelvis, ribs, sternum, humerus, flat bones of skull, fibula, tibia, radius, ulna. The secondary deposits exhibit a marked tendency to cause osteoplastic changes in the bones, a peculiarity wliich is probably connected with the slow growth of the primary and secondary tumours. Thus, in a case recorded by Thiele, swellings over the ribs had been noticed for at least two years before death. The secondary tumours originating in the medulla may cause marked sclerosis of the bone, and in those situations in which the growth becomes subperiostea 1 by spreading through the vascular channels in the bone new osseous tissue may also form on the surface. Blumer, of the Johns Hopkins University, has drawn special attention to the clinical interest of the secondary bone deposits of prostatic carcinoma. The primary tumour, as in Thiele's case above-