2o6 GANGRENE pains, or numbness and tingling in tlie affected area. As the gangrene develops, pain and toxsemia become prominent symptoms, and lead to loss of sleep and gradual exhaustion, which may end in death. Glycosuria is a frequent accompaniment of this form of gangrene, and is probably due to the absorption of toxic products from the dead and dying tissues. It must not be mistaken for the glycosuria of diabetes, for it is unaccompanied by the classical symptoms of that disease, and passes off when the dead part is removed. Moist gangrene is the term employed to denote dead tissues which are infiltrated with blood and other fluids, and usually infected with saprophytic micro-organisms. It occurs in its most typical form, when a necrotic part of the body becomes the seat of decomposition, and usually develops in tissues that are naturally exposed to bacterial infection, such as the lungs, the intestines, the external genitals, and the extremities. The predominant factors in its causation are : (1) mechanical obstruction to the venous as well as the arterial circula- tion, such as is produced by crushing or long-continued pressure, or by ligation, destruction, embolism or thrombosis, of a main artery or vein, or both ; (2) chemical irritants and physical agents, such as heat or intense cold ; and (3) the destructive action of the toxins produced by septic and infective micro-organisms which are either present before death, or subsequently gain access to the part. Though the essential features of moist gangrene are due to putre- factive changes which occur in the necrotic tissues, decomposition does not invariably take place : hence clinicians now recognize two distinct forms, aseptic moist gangrene and septic moist gangrene. Aseptic moist g'angrene, or moist gangrene without putre- faction, occurs when the return of venous blood is prevented by any of the causes already mentioned, and when saprophytic bacteria fail to gain access to the part. The necrotic tissues become sodden and discoloured owing to the escape of blood from the vessels and the liberation of haemoglobin. . Later, blebs containing blood-stained serum form beneath the epidermis, the skin exhibits a play of colours ranging between dark-red, purple, green, and black, and the part becomes cold, insensitive, and functionless. If the obstruction is arterial alone, the skin is at first white, and later becomes mottled, while the course of the superficial veins is indicated hy a dusky line due to the escape of hfemoglobin ; but if the venous circulation is also interfered with, the part at once becomes dark and cedematous, and bullas rapidly appear. The affected area remains stationary in size, a line of separation forms, and the part is cast off with very little evidence of inflammatory disturbance. The process is a rapid one, because the circulation is interrupted suddenly, and a large area of the body is frequently involved.