BONE AFFECTIONS IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 795 a separation of the epiphysis are, first, au increase in width of the medulla, in which the cartilage cells disappear and become absorbed by the blood-vessels and the medullary tissue; and subsequently there is a growth of granulation tissue between the diaphysis and the epiphysis. It was held that this granulation tissue originated from the bone marrow of the diaphysis, but Schmidt showed it to be a richly cellular connective tissue, containing an extraordinary number of blood-vessels, which are shut off from the diaphysis but communicate with the vessels of the perichondrium from which they originate. In consequence of the sj^hihtic infection, this connective tissue increases in growth and takes on the character of granulation tissue. Thereby the canals are widened. In this connective-tissue growth there is an attempt at bone formation from the cartilage cells included in it. The process increases towards the diaphysis, so that in time the cartilage which should next ossify is completely destroyed, being pushed, so to speak, into the marrow of the dia- physis, to become the prey of the blood-vessels and marrow-cells therein ; further, the granulation tissue forms a barrier which pre- vents ossification of the cartilage cells above ; and, in consequence, separation of the epiphysis follows. The most characteristic feature to the naked eye in a longitudinal section of the diseased epiphysis is the aj^pearance of a yellow line, often zigzag, between the epiphysis and the diaphysis. Besides the changes described above, there is usually some thicken- ing of the periosteum, and osteophytic growths. Periostitis is a manifestation of late congenital syphilis, and shows itself in various ways. For instance, in the fingers and toes the phalanges are enlarged in a spindle-shaped manner, the result of an ossifying peri- ostitis of the shafts—dactylitis syphilitica. The same condition may also affect long bones, most frequently the tibige, especially on their anterior surfaces. New bone forms as the result of the inflammation, and either gives rise to a spindle- shaped swelling or to multiple swellings—nodes. Ossifying jieriostitis or pericranitis affects both the parietal and frontal eminences, causing prominences known as Parrot's nodes, and giving a natiform or " hot-cross-bun " appearance to the cal- varium (Fig. 201). Syphilitic inflammation, if secondarily infected with septic organ- isms, may result in necrosis and caries of bones, especially in the case of the hard palate, jaws, nasal bones, and cranium, and lead to perforation. Perforation of the palate is especially diagnostic of syphilis in both the acquired and congenital forms. True gummata may affect any of the bones, as in acquired syphilis,