184 SUPPURATION -of an intermittent character. Its decline is usually gradual (lysis), or it may be abrupt (crisis). If death should supervene, a patient may die in a state of hyperpyrexia, and the temperature, it is said, may rise a degree or so immediately after death. In some cases of very profound toxemia the temperature may be subnormal, especially before death. Rigors rarely occur in this form of disease unless it be associated with pysemia. If there be no pysemic complication, secondary abscesses do not occur. The disease may be caused by many organisms, but is usually associated with streptococci. The lesion through which the virus has gained entrance is frequently small, and may escape notice altogether ; it may follow a scratch inflicted during the handling of infected dead animal tissues, or occasionally even during operations, or it may follow cellulitis, erysipelas, or gangrene. Clinically, the patient shows symptoms of acute toxaemia and high fever. He is usually flushed, though in the severest forms and later stages he is often very pale, and may be tinged with yellow. He suffers from headache, malaise, anorexia, albuminuria, and usually cliarrho3a. Blood may be found in the urine and perhaps in the stools, and there may be a petechial rash. The nerve centres are poisoned ; the patient becomes delirious, dyspnoeic, comatose, and dies. The prognosis of acute septicfemia, when once definitely estab- lished, is extremely unfavourable. A very large proportion of the patients die. Hectic fever, or chronic sefticmnia.—This form of fever also may be introduced by an initial traumatic fever, but instead of the tem- perature remaining normal, it rises about six o'clock in the evening to between 101° and 102° F., and in the morning it is normal, or even subnormal. It is associated with chronic suppurative processes. It is accompanied by night sweats and dryness of the tongue, and lardaceous disease is often a marked feature when hectic fever has lasted for some months. Hectic fever is due to the action of micro-organisms which remain mostly in the diseased part ; they can be detected in the blood only with the utmost difficulty. 3. Pycemia, like septicaemia, with which it may be associated, is a dangerous disease ; it is probably the more dangerous of the two. It may be caused by any of the pyogenetic organisms, perhaps most commonly by staphylococci. Pyaemia is always associated with an infected thrombosis of the veins at the seat of infection, and is especially liable to follow septic invasion of venous sinuses in the cranium or the puerperal uterus, or of bones. The emboli which separate from a disintegrated thrombus are the causes of the