GANGRENE FROM HEAT AND GOLD this purpose a general ansesthetic is advisable, in order that the extent of the injuries may be ascertained and the wound thoroughly cleansed. If the skin is lacerated, the edges should be excised, and approximated with a few sutures after htemorrhage has been arrested, and foreign bodies, loose pieces of tissue, bone, etc., have been removed. The part is then enveloped in a voluminous dry, sterilized dressing, and carefully watched. In the event of limited gangrene setting in, conservative treat- ment is only permissible when it is judged that a useful limb will be obtained after the separation of the dead part. If this appears impossible from the nature of the injury, or if the patient is old and debilitated, or if the gangrene, though limited, is accompanied by septic intoxication, early amputation is called for. IV. GANGRENE DUE TO PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL AGENTS L Gangrene due to heat.—As burns and scalds will be described in a separate article (p. 291), it is sufficient to point out here tliat heat causes gangrene by inducing coagulation of the albuminous elements of the tissues. A temperature of 132° F. coagulates myosinogeu and fibrinogen, and therefore solidifies and destroys the tissues. 2. Gangrene due to cold.—The ultimate effect on the body of a low temperature is determined by the degree of cold, the period of exposure, and the resistance of the tissues. Damp cold, owing to the obstacles it raises to eflicient evaporation, produces more serious results than dry cold. Short exposure to intense cold, or prolonged exposure to a less severe degree of cold, may result in nothing more serious than a chilblain; but prolonged exposure to intense cold, particularly in tliose who are weakly or debilitated either by age or alcohol, causes frost-bite or, in other words, gan- grene. The first effect of cold is to cause contraction of the blood- vessels and, in consequence, slowmg of the circulation and blueness of the skin. If exposure is prolonged, the vessels contract to such an extent that the circulation ceases altogether and the skin becomes wliite and insensitive. If this condition is allowed to exist for any length of time, necrosis takes place from anaemia ; or if warmth is suddenly applied to the part which, though pale, still retains its vitality, vaso-dilatation is so excessive that stasis and thrombosis occur, and the tissues, already enfeebled by defective circulation, become gangrenous. As might be expected, the parts that are most often affected are those which are most exposed—viz. the fingers, toes, ears, and nose.