4o8 TUMOURS and one child liad vascular patches on the tongue. In a similar case, also a Avoman, recorded by Parkes Weber, there were angiomas on the face, ears, lips, tongue, conjunctiva, nose, pharynx, and epiglottis. There was also a retinal hsemorrhage in one eye, and there remained evidences of an old hsemorrhage in the other. The woman's mother and several of her children were similarly affected. Cases of this nature must be carefully distinguished from haemophilia, which is almost exclusively met with in males. After middle age it is very common to find small red spots on the skin, especially on the front of the trunk. The smallest, not larger than a pin's head, are flat, but when of somewhat larger size they may be distinctly raised. These spots were first described by Campbell de Morgan, who believed them to be especially common in the subjects of malignant disease, particularly carcinoma of the breast; hence they are known as " de Morgan's spots." They are certainly often seen in women with mammary cancer, but are quite common in both sexes, and appear to be of no ;. _ significance. They are vas- ^ cular in nature, consisting ' ; ' ■ of thin-walled dilated cu- taneous capillaries, and are probably the result of de- .t ' ' , > . . Generative changes. < Cavernous angi- oma.—A cavernous naevus has the structure of erectile tissue. A section of such a tumour often presents, T-- nc f • ™ ■ even to the naked eye, a Fig. 72.—Cavernous angioma, in sec- ' tion. The tumour was situated be- finely-spongy structure of neath the temporal muscle. a deep-red colour (Fig. 72). In many cases the tumour is completely encapsuled, and the vessels which enter and leave it are not unusually large or numerous. Examined microscopically, a cavernous angioma presents large blood-spaces or sinuses lined with endothelium, and lying in a cellular connective tissue in which groups of fat-cells are often present (Fig. 73). The small cavernous angi- omas, which are not uncommon in the liver, develop, according to Ziegler, in advanced age, and are not congenital. They are said to result from dilatation and coalescence of neighbouring capillaries within the lobules. A cavernous hsemangioma, when situated in the subcutaneous tissue or other accessible situation, such as in the substance of the lip, forms a soft, spongy tumour of well-defined outline and often with a lobulatei