MORBID ANATOMY OF ACTINOMYCOSIS S75 Scblaiige recorded 100 cases, of which 80 were in tlie jaw and neck. The combined Hst of 430 cases collected by Illich in 1892, and Leith in 1894, shows the following distribution :— Head and neck . . . 224 ) Tongue 1(3 / • • ^o-.o per cent. Abdomen . . . . 93 . . 21-(iO Lungs ..... 57 . 13-25 , Skin 11 . . 2-50 Doubtful 29 . . 6-90 430 . . 100 Hertz lias added 64 additional abdominal cases. Morbid anatomy.—At the site of infection there is a cnromc inflammatory process, in which small romid lymphatic-like cells are usually seen. This area is soon surrounded by a firm fibro-cellular zone, and there ensues a gradual invasion of the neighbouring connec- tive-tissue planes, with hard lumpy masses of chronic inflammatory material; this may take the form of a general diffuse brawny infiltra- tion with ill-defined edges, or of a definite collection of tumours which display at first a smooth, regular surface and a dense, uniform consistency. Secondary pyogenetic infection is a common and, in internal organs, an outstanding feature ; the abscesses burst and discharge the characteristic granular and viscid exudate, so that eventually there remains a widespread and sinus-riddled diffuse mass of nodular inhlti'atioii, witli a more or less profuse purulent discharge. Microscopic examination of a section shows a mycelium of radially arranged branching filaments lying in each softened area, and surrounded by a zone of fibro-cellular tissue. The sinus walls are lined by granulation tissue, which contains many " pe23per granules." In the purulent contents of the abscesses, or in the discharge from the sinuses, the characteristic branching filaments are always seen. (Plate 80.) Clinical features.—The general symptoms are often very vague unless an important oigan be interfered with ; so that, if the disease be in an internal part of the body, diagnosis may be difficult until the tumour becomes large and jDalpable, or until the fungus is found in the sputum or other ejecta. The victim presents slowly progressive weakness, ana?mia, and wasting, often allied with fever of a tuberculous type, and, when questioned, may give a his- tory of employment involving the handling of corn or the inhalation of grain-dust. There is no tenderness, and may be no pain ; when the latter exists, it is often neuralgic and due to pressure. If the lesion is visible the conditions described under Morbid Anatomy appear, namely, a diffuse tumefaction of a firm infiltrat- ing type, nodular in places, in others softening and exuding the