FEVER 347 3. Fever associated with brain and cord lesions. •—A rise of temperature, sometimes very marked, may be met with after various lesions of the brain and spinal cord. The best instance of this rise of temj^erature is met with after liaunorrhage into the pons Varolii, when the temperature may rise to 105°-107° F., the condition being usually associated with pin-point pupils. After any cerebral injury with lia?morrliage and compression the temperature may be raised, and a steady rise of temperature frequently precedes death from acute cerebral compression. The explanation given of this rise of temperature is that it is due to interference with the tliermogenetic centres, either causing increased metabolism, which raises the temperature of the body generally, or diminished loss of heat by irradiation as a result of lessened rapidity of circulation. Rise of temperature may also be found during mental excitement and in hysterical states, probably due to functional disturbance of the heat centres. Treatment.—The treatment of this rise of temperatiu'e u the treatment of the underlying condition, and, as a rule, little can be done. In cases of cerebral compression the compression may be relieved by trephining, and the temperature falls ; but a rise in temperature after brain injury is a grave prognostic sign. BIBLIOGRAPHY Baldy, I. M., Text-Boole of Gyner.oloqy. Philadelphia and London, 1898. Binnie, J. F., Manual of Operafirc Surgery. 4th ed. London, 1910. Clouston, T. S., Clinical Lectures on Mental Diseases. 5th ed. London, 1898. Crile, G. W., Blood Pressure in Surgery. Philadelphia and London, 1903. Crile, G. W., Hmmorrhage and Transfusion. New York and London, 1909. Erichsen, I. E., The Science and Art of Surgery. Vol. I., 10th ed. London, 1895. Jacobson, W. H. A., and R. P. Rowlands, Tlie Operations of Surgery. 5th ed. Loiulon, 1907. Mummery, P. Lockhart, After-Treatment of Operations. 2nd ed. London, 1904. Stewart, G. N., .4 Manual of Physiology. 4th ed. London, 1900. Tillmans, H., A Text-Book of Surgery. Vol. I., 4th ed. London, 1899.