568 TUMOURS In extreme cases of atropliic carcinoma the tumour may be scarcely palpable, but even then the shrinldng of the breast, the deep retraction of the nipple, and the puckering of the skin afford an unmistakable clinical picture. The invasion of the skin, and the subsequent ulceration of the tumour begin by increasing adhesion of the skin to the surface of the tumour. The sldn thus becomes thickened and coarse-looking, and then a patch of dusky, reddish discoloration slowly appears in the centre of the adherent area. At a later stage a small, dry crust forms, and on separating this a superficial ulcer is exposed which gradually extends until it assumes the features wliich characterize the typical carcinomatous ulcer, as already described (p. 519). In this way a huge foul mass of fungating growth may eventually involve a large part of the front of the chest (Fig. 157). When ulceration occurs in a typical atrophic carcinoma the appearance produced may be most striking—a small ulcer firmly adherent to the chest wall being surrounded by deep radiating puckers in the sldn, whilst the breast itself has entirely disappeared. Such a growth may pursue a course extending over many years and be attended with strildngly little impairment of the general health. The clinical features of a nodular cancer of the breast may be markedly modified by alterations in the sldn covering the gland, as the result of lymphatic invasion. Occasionally the sldn over the whole breast presents a condition of solid oedema mthout discoloration. Tiiis is a serious sign, and indicates a widely spread lymphatic per- meation, even though the palpable tumour is small and circumscribed. Fig. 107 shows the presence of a column of cancer cells in a lymphatic of the skin in a case of this kind. In other cases multiple nodules o growth are present in the sldn of the mammary region, or the sldn over a considerable part of the chest may be transformed into a dense indurated layer, constituting the condition sometimes called scirrhus en cuirasse. In advanced cases of breast cancer the obstruction may involve the lymphatics draining the upper limb. The whole limb may thus become enormously enlarged by a peculiarly dense brawny form of oedema, producing a very distressing condition kno\\T.i as the " brawny arm of cancer." The mode and routes of the lymphatic invasion of cancer of the breast have been very fully studied by many observers not only in their bearing upon the operative treatment of the disease, but also in relation to the general subject of the spread of carcinoma. The lymphatics of the mammary gland join for the most part in a plexus beneath the areola from which the large efferent vessels pass to the axilla, chiefly to glands which lie on the inner wall of the upper part of the space. Although these glands are usually the first to be invaded