MALIGNANT GROWTHS: TREATMENT 477 especially of the skin or mucous membranes, presents any suspicion of commencing carcinoma. Histological examination will indicate whether or not it is necessary to advise a subsequent operation for the removal of the corresponding lymphatic area. 2. When it is necessary to establish the diagnosis by an exploratory incision into a tumour of doubtful nature, every care must be taken to prevent contamination of the wound by the tumour substance. The exploratory incision should be closed and the instruments used for the purpose discarded. When practicable, as, for instance, in the breast, the doubtful tumour should be cut out and then investigated, rather than explored by an incision into it in situ. If, as is, however, rarely the case, ordinary naked-eye examination fails to reveal the nature of the tumour, it may be possible rapidly to prepare a section and examine it microscopically with sufficient accuracy to enable the pathologist to advise the operator whether or not to proceed with the operation. If the appearances are doubtful the question of further operation should be delayed until a more carefully conducted micro- scopical examination has been carried out. 3. The operation should be so planned as to remove not only the tumour itself, but such surrounding tissues as are known from experi- ence to be especially liable to be invaded by the growth, and it should be performed with as little roughness and dragging on the parts as possible, in order to avoid displacement of tumour cells into the veins and lymphatics. 4. The group of lymphatic glands receiving the lymphatics from the area in which the tumour is situated should in most cases ).)e removed as freely as possible, whether they are palpably enlarged or not. 5. When possible, the excision of the primary tumom- and the glands should be carried out at one operation, and the tissues between the two, in which infected lymphatic vessels are likely to be present, removed in their continuity. The chief exceirtions to this rule concern those ca.ses in which the jn-imary tumour is so situated, as in the mouth, that rigid asepsis is impossible or cannot ]:)e ensured. In these cir- cumstances the operation for the removal of the glands may, with advantage, be postponed with a view to preventing septic infection of the wound. 6. When a carcinoma arises in a part already the seat of certain precancerous changes, the operation must, if possible, be of such extent as to remove completely the altered part, as, for instance, in cei-tain cases of carcinoma of the tongue and skin. 7. When the removal of skin is necessary, as in carcinoma arising in it or involving it by lymphatic extension, the amount removed must not be limited by the desire to close the wound as the final step