723 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE Ulceration of a chancroid may cause slougliing of an indurated mass, leaving no local indication of syphilis. A sore of the above description is called a " mixed chancre.'' Primary lymphatic enlargements.—At the end of the first or second week after the appearance of the chancre the lymphatic vessels leading from it may be felt like whipcord, though there is uo pain or obvious inflammation. At the same time, the associated glands in the vicinity become painlessly enlarged and hard. These enlargements are never great, hardly ever exceeding the size of a marble, are freely movable, and scarcely ever suppurate. Syphilitic chancres are rarely unaccompanied by such swellings, but at the same time it must be remembered that these vessels and glands are liable to enlarge in cases of chancroid, herpes, or other local irritation. To distinguish between the two conditions, it is to be noted that the syphilitic lymphangitis is painless and terminates in resolution under specific treatment; while inflammatory lymphangitis is hard, painful, tender, and red, the overlying sldn is cedematous, suppuration often ensues, and specific treatment has no effect. Diagnosis of chancre.—Evidence on the following points will help towards a correct diagnosis of chancre :—- 1. If S. fallida be found in the secretion from the sore, a definite diagnosis of syphilis may be given. 2. The incubation period between the exposvire to infection and the appearance of the sore should be between ten days and four weeks. 3. If the sore begin as a painless macule or slight erosion, spread slowly, become indurated, and exude a thin, scanty discharge from its surface, which may be covered with crusts or false membrane, syphilis is the probable diagnosis. 4. If the sore be followed by painless enlargement of neighbour- ing lymphatic glands, so as to form a chain of small tumours without obvious inflammatory signs, the probability of syphilis is much strengthened. 5. A positive reaction to AVassermann's test (p. 46) will, of course, • onfirm this conclusion. Difficulties may arise owing to the facts that the date of infection may be uncertain, the induration may be absent or very sliiiht and indefinite, and the enlargement of neighbouring glands may be absent. A sore appearing later than ten days after exposure, followed by induration and becoming inflamed and ulcerated, with conse- quent destruction of the induration, is probably a mixed chancre. This opinion is confirmed by the lymphatic glands in the neighbour- hood becommg slowly enlarged.