ANTIBACTERIAL SERUMS 97 undergo a large fall in from six to twelve hours, and a further dose of 10 c.c. administered thirty-six to forty-eight hours after the first may be all that is needed, but any subsequent considerable rises of temperature indicate the necessity for the injection of more serum. If the first injection fails to lower the temperature appreciably within twenty-four hours, a supply of serum hjj a different manufacturer should be procured and injected. If this likewise has no effect, treatment with an autogenous streptococcus vaccine—the preparation of which will by this time have been completed—-should now be carried out. Anthrax. — The antiserums prepared by Sclavo and by Mendez have been found to possess very great therapeutic powers, and in Italy in unoperated cases treated with serum the mortality has been reduced from 24 per cent, to 6 per cent, in the human subject. Serum may, therefore, be used as an alternative to operative procedures, although imless the serum is ready to hand when the case is hrst seen very few surgeons woirld care to run the risks inseparable from delay. The dose of serum is 20-40 c.c, and should be injected intravenously. VACCINE TREATMENT Bacterial vaccines and their preparation.—The vaccuie used in any given case may be one of two kinds—either " autogenous," that is to say, jji'epared from the actual organism isolated from the patient; or '' stock,"" that is, prepared fr'om a culti- vation of the same species of bacterium already isolated and stored in the laboratory. A stock vaccine may be prepared from one " strain " or type of micro-organism, or by first mixmg together a number of cultivations representing many strains of the same species; in the latter case the vaccine is spoken of as a " polyvalent " or " multi- valent '" stock vaccine. For prophylactic use a stock vaccine must necessarily be employed. For therapeutic administration each variety of vaccine has its own sphere of usefulness, but, speaking generally, a polyvalent stock vaccine is inferior in value to an autogenous vaccine, and a stock vaccine prepared fi-om a single strain is still less valuable than one prepared by mixing several strains. Occasionally it happens that, although the diagnosis has been accurately made, it is foimd to be impossible to isolate the actual infecting microbe in the pure culture necessary for the preparation of an autogenous vaccine, in which case the use of a polyvalent stock vaccine is indicated. Or, owing to the admixture of the infecting organism with other and adventitious bacteria, there may be considerable delay in separating out the responsible microbe ; here, again, one may be compelled to employ a stock vaccine to tide over the interval before the autogenous vaccine is completed. H