504 TUMOURS presence of lines parallel to the surface. In a central abscess with surrounding sclerosis the enlarged part of the bone gives a dense shadow in which is a paler area, sometimes surrounding the denser shadow of a sequestrum. In a tuberculous bone, Shenton, who has recently pubHshed a valuable work on the detection of bone disease by X-rays, states that " instead of the clear outline of the bones and their cancellated structure, a fluffy effect is seen, the outline being blurred and the cancellous tissue difficult of detection." Shenton further points out that the bone around a tuberculous cavity is poor in mineral matter, and, being more transparent than usual, the contrast between it and the abscess-cavity may be very slight. In a central tumour, such as a myeloma, the expansion of the bone may be very obvious : whilst in a periosteal sarcoma there may be very marked irregularities about the affected part of the bone, and in the tumour itself ossification may produce an irregular spotted appearance quite unUke the Unear arrangement of the new bone in periostitis. If other means fail, no time should be lost in estabHshing the diagnosis by means of an exploratory incision. (See also post, pp. 640-1.) 2. From chronic articular disease a sarcoma in the joint extremity of a long bone can usually be distinguished by careful examination, and the same considerations must be taken into account as were mentioned in connexion with the diagnosis of myeloma (p. 403). 3. The diagnosis from sarcoma of the soft structures, such as the muscles, is not usually difficult, except in advanced cases when such a tumour has contracted secondary attachments to the bone. 4. A periosteal sarcoma sometimes increases rapidly in size as the result of haemorrhage into its substance. This may cause a close resemblance to a chronic abscess, and in the same connexion it may be mentioned that especially in infants a periosteal hcemorrhage may simulate a new growth. 5. The pulsation in a vascular sarcoma protruding from the expanded bone has occasionally produced a close resemblance to an aneurysm of the adjacent large artery. 6. It cannot be too strongly insisted that in every case of suspected sarcoma of bone in a middle-aged or elderly subject the possi- bility that the tumour is a secondary carcinoma must be carefully considered (p. .524). The only available treatment in most cases of sarcoma of the long bones is amputation, and when the growth is periosteal the whole bone should be removed. Exception may, perhaps, be made in certain cases in which the tumour is situated at the extreme lower end of the femur, when amputation may be performed below the trochanters rather than at the hip-joint. In those very rare cases in which sar- coma affects the fibula or one of the forearm bones it may sometimes