291 BURNS AND SCALDS By chad woodward, F.R.C.S. Definition.—A ]>mn results from the action of dry lieat upon the tissues, whereas a scald is produced by the application of moist heat. The former is comparable to roasting and the latter to boiling. The effects upon the tissues and the body generally are, however, so essentially similar that one description will apply to both. Special mention -will be made of scalds of the throat, a very fatal condition requiring special treatment. In the statutes of Great Britain the injuries produced by such corrosive liquids as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, caustic potash, etc., are considered as burns, and, indeed, the pathological and clinical features show a great similarity to those of injuries produced by heat. Mortality.—Burns are responsible for a great number of deaths every year, and contribute a large percentage of the fatal cases in any large hospital in a manufacturing town. During the twelve months from April, 1909, to March, 1910, 63 cases of burns were admitted to the wards of the General Hospital, Birmingham ; of these 34 died, making a mortality of nearly 54 per cent. In the same period 16 cases of scalding were admitted, with a mortality of 25 per cent. The statistics of the Coroner for the City of Birmingham well illus- trate the high death-rate of burns, both in children and in the aged. During 1908 and 1909, 148 inquests were held on the bodies of persons- dying from burns and 21 on those whose death was due to scalds : 115 of the 148 fatal cases of burning, and 15 of the 21 deaths from scalds, occurred in children of 5 years old or less, whilst G people over 60 years of age owed their death to burns. In 1909-10, at the General Hospital, Birmingham, 22 of the 34 deaths from burns were in cliildren of 5 years of age or under, and 4 deaths occurred in patients over 60. It would also appear that the percentage of deaths from burns in females is greater than that in males, especially in the case of those over 5 years of age. Inasmuch as the majority of burns, especially in children, are caused by ignition of the clothing, due to playing with matches or with the fire, the greater number of such accidents occur in the colder