i6 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY consequent removal of a large proportion of the free antiseptic fi'om the solution. Again, many antiseptic substances which prevent bacterial growth, even when present only in minute amounts, exhibit very little bacteri- cidal power unless they act in relatively very strong solutions ; while others, which cause much less inhibition of growth in weak solutions, •are powerfully destructive of the bacteria when their strength is only very moderately increased. Where animal tissues are concerned it will frequently be found that the milder antiseptics give the best practical results, since they inhibit multiplication of bacteria without causing injury to the tissues ; whereas strong antiseptics may cause tissue injury and cell necrosis, and produce coagulation of albumin in the tissue fluids, thus shutting in the micro-organisms and protecting them from further antiseptic action. (/) Symbiosis and antibiosis.—It has already been stated that the products of bacterial metabolism may be unfavourable or favourable to bacterial life. On the whole, such products act unfavourably on the growth both of the micro-organism which forms them and of other varieties ; but in some cases the presence and activity of particular bacteria improves the conditions for others, or actually makes existence possible for them where it would otherwise be diificult or impossible. Such relations between different bacterial forms are commonly spoken of as examples of symbiosis, while the cases of antagonism or harmful influence are referred to under the term antibiosis. The modern use of the Yogurth bacillus (lactic-acid fermentation) to check the growth of intestinal micro-organisms which produce injurious substances, affords an excellent example of antibiosis. Other examples in laboratory experience are found in the overgrowth and destruction of pathogenetic bacteria by putrefactive organisms or other saprophytic forms. On the other hand, instances of favourable action may be found where one series of micro-organisms produces substances which prepare or actually constitute the food material for other forms ; or where aerobic micro-organisms, by removing oxy- gen, render it possible for anaerobic forms to grow. Thus, B. tetcmi appears to flourish best in a wound which has an additional infection with aerobic organisms. 2. VITAL PROCESSES i. Assimilation and dissimilation.—The bacteria, though belonging to the lowliest and most primitive forms of life, exhibit highly developed metabolic functions. The single tiny cells possess almost all the potentialities distributed in different organs in the more highly developed forms of life. The investigation of their vital processes is consequently all the more difficult and un-