663 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHKR drug is steadily added by drops. A considerable amount of ether vapour escapes into the surrounding air, and may be objectionable to those engaged upon the case. This is one disadvantage of the method ; another is the large amount of ether used, so that the anaesthetist must be plentifully supplied with the drug if a long case is anticipated ; 10 oz. is frequently required in such circumstances. This metliod of giving ether can be adojjted for use in long opera- tions about the mouth or nose, as, for instance, removal of the tongue, for which the closed method is unavailable. To use ether in these cases it is necessary to be supplied with the apparatus shown in Fig. 181. When antes- thesia has been estab- lished by the open method the pharynx and pharyngeal aspect of the epiglottis and la- rynx are brushed with a 2 per cent, solution of cocaine. The rubber tubes are passed into the nares till the lower ends are opposite the epiglottis. The pharynx is now packed with a roll of sterilized gauze, while the tongue is held forward. Ana'S- thesia is then kept up by dropping ether upon the ilannel closing in the glass funnel. When the method is employed for long operations within the nose, the tubes are inserted far back into the mouth and the oral cavity around them is packed. In the case of difficult subjects the use of ether by the open method is best pre- ceded by a hypodermic injection of morpliia gr. ^ and atropine gr. Y^uy given half an hour before. In all cases it should be preceded by atropine. For using ether by the close method numerous inhalers have been devised, all of them aiming at one or both of two principles —viz. restriction of air supply and gradation of the strength of ether vapour. We shall describe the use of only one mhaler—Clover's (Fig. 183)—whicli well achieves both these ends. This instrument consists of three main parts : a face-piece that is screwed on to the ether reservoir, on to the top of which fits a bag. There is an