ACQUIRED SYPHILIS 744 the deeper tissues. Lupus does not affect the bone, whereas gumma does. Tuberculous ulceration is shallower than syphilitic ; it is more limited in extent, and has sharply-cut edges, whilst its base is red and more granular. The lymphatic glands in its neighbourhood are often enlarged in tuberculous ulceration, but are seldom so in s}^hilis. Tubercle very rarely leads to perforation, the contrary being the case with syphilis. Tuberculous ulceration is unaffected by treatment with mercury or potassium iodide. Treatment consists in arresting the ulceration by means of mercury and iodide of potassium. Locally the palate should be frequently sprayed with dilute solution of iodine or perhydrol, and kept as clean as possible. No surgical procedure should be under- taken until all ulceration has ceased. The pharynx.—The pharynx is liable to the same syphilitic manifestations as the mouth. In some cases the entire soft palate is destroyed by ulceration ; necrosis of the hard palate occurs, the mouth, nose, and pharynx being converted into one cavitJ^ In others the ulcerative process is limited to the border of the velum and pharyngeal wall ; adhesions form and divide the cavity of the pharynx into two distinct chambers, one communicating with the posterior nares, the other with the mouth. The larynx.—The larynx shows chronic inflammation, lead- ing to thickening or hypertrophy of the mucous membrane and accompanied by superficial ulcers from which spring vegetations. These vegetations may be of such a size as to impede respiration. The cords may also become much thickened, and in some cases cause complete aphonia. Later on, deep ulceration may occur, the epi- glottis and aryteno-epiglottic ligaments being destroyed. These ulcerations are liable to be mistaken for malignant disease, from which they differ by being of slower growth; moreover, whereas in cancer the submaxillary glands are from an early date infiltrated, they are not so in syphilis. Gummatous tumours may also occur as a tertiary lesion. The trachea.-—In tertiary syphilis the trachea is subject to gummatous infiltration and connective-tissue proliferation. The former leads to ulceration and necrosis of cartilage. The healing of the ulcers may leave cicatricial contraction, which may lead to either complete or partial constriction of the trachea. The lungs.—The morbid processes of syphilis in the lungs consist of indurations and gummata, which occur in either the middle or lower lobes rather than at the apices. Fibrous bands enclosing islets of lung tissue are formed—this fibrous tissue formation may be very extensive. The bronchi in relation with these are flattened, and the alveoli are filled with exudation containing leucocytes