89 DUGREY'S BACILLUS of tlie skin, and no other organism has been found with constancy in buboes associated with soft chancre. Ducrey's bacillus is therefore generally accepted at the present time as the j^robable specific causal agent of this affection. It is a short, rod-sliaped organism, very similar in aj^pearance to the Bacillus pestis, measuring about 1"5 fi long, and 0'.5 yu, wide. It is not motile, and has no flagella. It does not form spores. It stains readily with all the ordinary basic aniline dyes, and shows a tendency to exhibit bipolar staining. In sections it is readily decolor- ized if alcohol be employed for dehydration. Sections should there- fore be first dried as completely as possible by pressing with several thicknesses of folded filter-paper, and then cleared at once with xylol. It is Gram-negative. The bacillus has been cultivated successfully on blood-agar and on serum-agar. The growth appears in the form of small, discrete, greyish, shiny colonies, which remain separate, and may reach the size of a pin's head in about 48 hours. Involution-forms appear very early in the cultures. In the condensation water at the foot of the tube there is usually a well-marked cloud of growth, composed of very long chains of the bacillus. The inoculation of pure cultures in the human subject leads to the production of typical soft sores. Among lower animals only the higher monkeys, and possibly the cat, have proved susceptible to the action of the organism. BIBLIOGRAPHY General Works of Reference Bacteriological Articles in AllhiMs System of Medicine. London, 2nd ed. Duclaux, Tniilr tic Microhiologie. Paris, 1898 to 190L Kolle und Wassermann, Handbuch der pathogenen Mikroorganismcn. .Jena, 1903 to 1909. Kraus imd Levaditi, flandbuch der Technik and Melhodik der Innnunitdtsjorschung. .Jena, 190S to 19] 1. Lehmann mid Neumann, Atlas und Grundriss der BeiMeriologie. Munich, 1896. Lbffler, Vorlenangen iiber die geschichtlicke Entwickelung der Lchre von der Eakterien. Lcipsic, 1887. Migula, System der Bakterien. Jena, 1897 to 1900. Technique Abel s Laboratory Handbook, translated by M. H. Gordon. London, 1907. Eyre, Barteriologiced Technique. London, 1902. Serum-Diagnosis, Serum-Therapy, etc. Bosanquet and Eyre, Serums, Vaccines, and Toxines, 2nd cd. London, 1909, Ehrlich, Gesammelte Arbeiten. zut Immunitdtsforschung. Berlin, 1904. Horder, Clinical Pathology in Practice. London, 1910. Wassermann und Bruck, Deutsche m.edicinische Wochensrhrift. 1900 and 1907. Wright, A. E., Studies on Immunity. London, 1909.