INSECT BITES AND STINGS 919 hours, and tlieu recover and appear to be quite well, only to have a second attack of collapse a few hours later which may progress to unconsciousness and death. In other children, and generally also in older patients, the local symptoms of pain, tightness, formication, redness, and a rapidly sjareading, purply a'dema may be present, with varying degrees of shock, delirium, or collapse. Irregular muscular contractions of the limbs may occur, and even trismus and gastro- intestinal symptoms not unlike those of irritant poisoning. Occasion- ally respiratory symptoms develop, and the patient dies from asphyxia or pneumonia. Treatment follows the general lines of that of snake bite, with repeated injections of Todd's anti-scorpion venine. INSECT BITES AND STINGS MYIASIS Considerable local inflammation and general poisoning may occur as the result of bites of various insects possessing poisonous secretions, the local effects varjdng from a slight red irritating punctum to severe phlegmonous inflammation or extensive oedema. The sting of the bee is barbed, and is left in the wovmd. There is immediate intense burning pain and throbbing, rapidly followed by mottled redness and swelling which, in soft parts, may be considerable. Severe general symptoms sometimes occur, even fatal syncope or death from fright ; and erysipelas, phlebitis, and other septic changes may result from the sting. lATasps and hornets may produce somewhat similar effects, but the sting is not barbed, and several punctures may be made close together. A general urticaria may follow these stings. The Egyptian hornet (Arabic, dabhoor) produces very severe general symptoms also, with intense pain in the bite, and a very hard ccdematous swelling for a considerable area around. Treatment.—In all such cases the sting must be removed, if left in the wound, and alkaline fomentations applied and constantly renewed. Bicarbonate of soda and ammonia are the most efficacious, and, later, hazeline applications are most soothing. In cases of marked redema, hot alkaline fomentations or antiphlogistin can be recom- mended. General symptoms may also require attention. Spiders, tarantulas, and centipedes may all give dan- gerous bites, which may end in erysipelas or otlier septic conditions ; and mosquitoes, bugs, gnats, midges, ticks, and various flies, quite apart from their danger as transmitters of specific diseases, may cause very irritating bites which, in themselves, 01 by subse- quent contamination, may lead to serious consequences. Mosquito bites may form small blood-blisters which may suppurate and lead to a general furunculosis with all its possible dangers.