SPINAL ANALGESIA 700 umbilicus to the knees ; therefore analgesia should be established to the following levels for the operations mentioned :— When the operation is nearly completed and the analgesia shows signs of resolving, it is well to commence suturing from the top of the wound ; and here it may be mentioned that in cases of double hernia the opera- tion should be commenced on the side opposite to that on which the patient was lying at the time of injection, since the analgesia commonly lasts longer on the lower of the two sides. Phenomena on the table.—In most cases the whole opera- tion is accomplished without difficulty to the surgeon or discomfort to the patient. Faintness, pallor, and siveating, accompanied by slight regurgitant vomiting, are, however, occasionally seen. These pheno- mena are probably toxic in origin ; they usually commence in the first fifteen minutes and rarely last for more than five minutes, and after their cessation the patient remains perfectly comfortable. Pos- sibly they are associated with some slight fall of blood pressure, as compression of the abdomen seems to benefit the patient, but of this there is at present no proof. In rarer cases, where the analgesia has risen to the clavicles, a sense of chilliness and shivering, without pyrexia, have been noted. With high analgesia there are at times an alteration of respira- tion resembling " air hunger," and inability to cough; there is no cyanosis or increase of respiratory rhythm, and the condition is clearly due to paresis of the intercostal muscles, the diaphragm alone carry- ing on respiration. The patient is, however, not in any way distressed. Priapism is occasionally seen, exactly as in cases of fracture of the cervical spine, but it is not always due to high analgesia. Relaxation of the sphincters is characteristic of the method, there- fore careful evacuation of the bowels before operation, and the pro- vision of a pad of cotton-wool in the perineum when on the table, are required. Pupillary changes have been seen, generally in the way of contraction or inequality ; but they are rare and transient. Thirst is frequently complained of, especially in association with Operation On legs . . . . . On thighs . . . . . Genitals and rectum Appendicectomy . . . . Hysterectomy and pelvic operations Analgesia required To groins. To umbilicus. To umbilicus. To ensiform cartilage. generally Inguinal colostomy Laparotomy above umbilicus . To clavicles.