GONORRHCEA 832 as sold by a wholesale cliemist, for this purpose—at any rate, not until a careful cultural examination of the urethral and prostatic secretion has shown what micro-organisms are present. Throughout the whole treatment it is most important that the progress of the case be controlled by frequent microscopic examinations of the secretion and the use of the urethroscope from time to time. GONORRHCEA IN WOMEN The recognition of the gravity of this disease in women has been tardy ; indeed, at one time it was held that the infection was restricted to the vulva and vagina and that it showed no tendency to spread or to become chronic. This view, now known to be diametrically opposed to the truth, was probably due to the ease with which the condi- tion can be overlooked in the female. Women, less versed and less interested in genito-urinary diseases than men, and accustomed to periodic pain and discomfort in the pelvic organs, are apt to attribute their symptoms to other causes, or even to imagine them inseparable from the conditions of early married life. Moreover, in any save the acute stages of the disease, both the physical and the bacterio- logical methods of diagnosis are much more difficult than in men. In its etiology, period of incubation, pathology, and general course the disease does not differ from that in the male. The site of the inoculation varies according to age : in young children it generally takes place at the vulva ; in adults the urethra and the endometrium of the cervical canal of the uterus are frequently first affected. But in the great majority of acute cases the inflammation, wherever it starts, soon spreads to all these regions and, in a considerable number of cases, also to the uterus, tubes, and pelvic peritoneum. Diagnosis.—The acute stage rarely offers any difficulty. After the usual incubation period an acute catarrhal inflammation develops, and rapidly spreads over the sexual apparatus. The nymphse and cli- toris are red and swollen and often the seat of small superficial erosions. The orifice of the urethra is congested and pouting, and if a finger be placed in the vagina the urethra will be felt as a firm, tender cord, from which a bead of pus may be squeezed. The demonstration of an acute urethritis is in itself almost pathognomonic of gonorrhoea ; should the pus from it show the presence of the gonococcus, the diagnosis is, of course, established. The diagnosis in the subacute and chronic stages is much less easy, and requires considerable experience on the part of the surgeon to justify a defuaite statement in a given case. The detection of the specific organism is -difficult, for the normal secretion of these parts always shows the presence of numerous micro-organisms ; amongst them many diplococci, closely resembling the gonococci.