ULCUS MOLLE 834 of fomentations may be employed for the relief of the pain. As soon as the patient can tolerate it, the vulva and vagina should be copiously irrigated twice or three times a day with hot solutions of permanganate of potash (1-5,000 to 1-2,000) or albargin (1-1,000) ; as the inflam- mation subsides, the strength of these lotions should be increased, or be superseded by 1-1,000 to 1-250 of nitrate of silver. In the subacute and chronic stages, in addition to these irrigations, more powerful solutions may be occasionally applied, say by a cotton swab, directly to the cervical canal, the vagina, and the urethra. It is useless in this stage to attempt to influence the disease by the administration of balsams and such remedies. The only constitutional treatment which holds out any promise of success is vaccine-therapy. Should Bartholin's gland inflame and suppurate, it should be freely incised and packed with gauze. For the treatment of gonorrhoeal inflammation in the uterus and tubes the reader is referred to the article on Gyntecology. SOFT CHANCRE (CHANCROID, ULCUS MOLLE) Soft chancre is a highly contagious venereal disease, characterized by the occurrence of one or, more frequently, several shallow ulcers about the genitals. The disease is due to inoculation with a specific micro-organism (Ducrey's bacillus), and has no connexion with syphilis, with which until comparatively recently it was confounded. It is to be noted, however, that the virus of sypliilis and that of soft chancre may be, and indeed often are, inoculated at the same time in the same place. In such cases the soft sore develops first, and a month later symptoms of syphihs supervene. The incubation period of the disease is short, so that within a few hours after infection a hyperaemic spot may be seen at the site of the inoculation, and in twenty-four to forty-eight hours a pustule may have developed. A little later the pustule bursts, leaving a shallow ulcer. When fully developed, the appearance of the ulcer is charac- teristic. It is generally round, and has sharp punched-out edges wliich may be slightly imdermined. The floor of the ulcer is usually uneven and ragged, and covered at first with a greyish-white slough, and later with more or less healthy granulations ; the base is invari- ably soft. The secretion is intensely infective, and auto-inoculation generally takes place. As a rule the ulcer remains small, about the size of a threepenny bit ; rarely on the skin of the thigh or abdomen it attains a very large size. Duration.— From three to six weeks is about the average duration of an uncomplicated soft sore.