X-RAY EXAMINATION radiogram of the bones of tlie skull which shows the outline of the sella turcica. Intracranial tumours have also been demonstrated in this way ; but lack of sufficient knowledge of what can be done, and of the normal appearances presented by these parts radiograpliically, stands in the way of the more general use of this method of investigation in con- nexion with intracranial diseases and injuries. DISEASES OF THE CHEST AND ABDOMEN Pulmonary tuberculosis.—In the diagnosis of this disease. X-ray examination may be of value in gauging the extent to which the lungs are involved. This is made abundantly clear by the many writings on the subject, such as those of Williams, Bouchard, Lawson, Walsham, and Orton, who have stated that the abnormalities which are observed in more or less pronounced cases of this disease are (1) that " the movement of the shadow of the diaphragm is re- stricted on the affected side or sides, usually in the lower part of its excursion " ; (2) that " one or both apices fail to light up on deep respiration" ; (3) that " the diseased portion of the lung casts a dark shadow " ; (4) that " the heart shadow in a large majority of cases is smaller than normal and placed more vertically in the chest" ; (5) that " alteration in the shape of the chest and the position of the ribs is often to be made out." A good example of extreme tuberculosis of both lungs is to be seen in Plate 65, Fig. 4. In this case both pleural spaces, instead of being normally translucent, show, from base to apex, abnormal opaque areas rounded in shape and irregular in distribution. Tuberculous cavities in the lungs.—The position and size of these cavities may often be most accurately determined fadiographically. The appearance presented varies according to the position of the cavity and the nature of its contents. Should it be (uU of purulent material it will create an area of increased density corresponding to its size, while, on the other hand, should such a cavity be filled with air, the shadow cast will be of less density than that cast by the surrounding tissue. Tuberculous bronchial glands.—When such glands are of considerable size their existence may be readily detected radiographi- cally. They are associated with a marked increase in the normal median opaque area of the chest towards the right and left—that is to say, the opaque area which is caused by the sternum, aorta, and upper dorsal vertebrae. An example of such a condition is to be seen in Plate 66, Fig. 1, where, in the positions indicated, such an increase in the median opacity is observable.