323 PSEUDO-HEMOPHILIA—SHOCK Finch advises venesection, and irrigation of the wound with hot water; and Crile recommends direct transfusion of human blood, both to stop the hajmorrhage and remedy the loss of blood. The most-used hcemostatics are adrenalin (both internally and externally), ethyl chloride, ferric chloride, hydrogen peroxide, hot water, powdered chalk, and calcium chloride. All should be tried in turn, and all may be found equally useless. No drug, used either externally or internally, is a specific, and some patients die of loss of blood in spite of all treatment. In the case of a large wound in a hfemophiliac, Thiersch recommends the avoidance of sutures and compressive dressing, and allows the wound to fill with blood-clot, which is left undisturbed. Conditions simulating haBmophilia.—Surgical literature teems with cases of patients who have bled profusely after injury or spontaneously; and these cases are often described under the title of " hfemophilia," although there is no trace of a family history of bleeding, and often the haemorrhage only occurs once in the patient's life. The more carefully the cases are investigated the more it is seen that they differ essentially from family htemophilia. In women (who never suffer from haemophilia) the bleeding is usually from the uterus, is associated with menstruation, and is in many cases due to abortions, fibroids, carcinoma, etc. Other cases of htemorrhage under the skin and sweating of blood occur in neurotic women, and are well-recognized stigmata of hysteria. Haemorrhage from the umbilicus in the newly born is often associated with sepsis, whilst severe haemorrhage after removal of a tooth may be due to injury of the dental arteries, which is difficult to control on account of their passage within bony canals. Scurvy, scurvy rickets, Henoch's purpura, pm'pura hiemorrhagica, jaundice, pancreatic disease, etc., also account for many so-called sporadic cases of haemophilia, which should not be diagnosed unless the family history is known. SHOCK Since the introduction of ansesthetics and the aseptic and antiseptic methods of operating, surgical shock is the chief danger that the surgeon has to combat; but, in spite of the enormous amount of experimental and clinical investigation that has been undertaken during the last few years, it is not possible at present to give a satisfactory defuiition of this condition, and its essential pathology is still obscm-e. That the condition of shock is intimately connected with dis- turbance of the nervous mechanism governing the cardio-vascular system is certain ; but the precise nature of this disturbance remains