THE PASTEUR TREATMENT Preventive treatment.—The different metliorls of preventive treatment are all derived from those initiated by Pasteur in 1885 as the result of his studies on the modification of the rabic virus by the combined action of desiccation and heat. With his collaborators Chamberland and Roux, Pasteur showed that the virus became attenuated in passing through the organs of a monkey, whilst it was exalted by successively passing through the system of rabbits and guinea-pigs. After one hundred of these passages the incubation becomes fixed, and lasts only from six to seven days instead of thirteen to sixteen days as at first. If passage through rabbits be continued, the virus preserves indefinitely the same activity. Suspension, in flasks containing air dried by caustic potash, of fragments of the spinal cord of a rabbit which has succumbed to the inoculation of " fixed virus "at a steady temperature of 23° C. causes a gradual decrease of virulence. After five or six days an emulsion of this dried cord no longer transmits hydrophobia to animals, even by inoculation under the dura mater. The principle of the method of immunization discovered by Pasteur is as follows: Successive inoculations of persons bitten by rabid animals with emulsions of the desiccated cord of rabid rabbits, com- mencing with the most attenuated, bestows on these people, during the period of incubation of hydrophobia, an immunity sufficiently strong to destroy the virus deposited in the wound by tlie biting animal before it reaches the central nerves. Experimentally, this method shows perfect efficacy. Applied to man for the first time in July, 1885, it has since given such excellent results that mortality from hydrophobia in all countries where anti- rabic institutes exist is practically nil. The formula of normal treatment of bitten patients consists in inoculating on the first day, under the skin of the abdomen, as soon as possible after the bite, 3 c.c. of an emulsion made with 2 to 5 mm. of cords desiccated respectively for thirteen and fourteen days. Next day the same quantity of emulsion of cords, dried for eleven and twelve days, is inoculated, followed by daily injection of cords of increasing- virulence. Finally, two or three inoculations of the most virulent cords are made. In general, persons bitten in the limbs receive eighteen inoculations, and those bitten in the face twenty-one ; some still more when the bites are particularly serious. Favoxirable conditions for this treatment can be found only in an antirabic institute—e.g. the Lister Institute in London—because fresh emulsions of virus ought always to be employed. Such institutes now exist in many countries. The classic Pasteurian method above described has been modified