ANGIOMA of a dark-red or purple colour. The so-called " port-wine stains " on the face and elsewhere need no further description ; the jjatch'may be uniformly coloured, but sometimes, by putting the skin on the stretch, the small branching vessels can be recognized. In the case of a large haemangioma the increased heat of tlie part is very obvious to the hand, and by pressure the colour of a nsevus disappears more or less completely. Cutaneous nsevi are most common about the head and face. Of 1,G00 nsevi observed by Lewis Jones, 851 were situated on the head or face, 82 on the neck, 413 on the trunk, 229 on the limbs, and 25 in other situations. The same observer noticed that female children were about twice as often affected as males, whilst multiple nsevi were four times as common in girls as in boys. The tendency of nsevi to affect the middle line of the body is often seen in those situated on the face and scalp, and occasionally cutaneous nsevi appear to corre- spond in their extent with the distribution of a nerve. Although not congenital, a common form of angioma on the face in children is the nsevus araneus or " spider nsevus," which consists of a minute raised red spot from which a number of fine red lines radiate. Capillary nsevi of the skin are not always entirely superficial, but may extend into the subcutaneous tissue, forming a soft tumour resembling a cavernous angioma in its characters ; whilst frequently a nsevus has a mixed structure, the cutaneous part being capillary and the subcutaneous part cavernous. After reaching a variable size, cutaneous nsevi usually remain stationary. They rarely disappear entirely, exce^Jt the very faint nsevoid patches which are so frequently jJresent in the eyelids and adjacent parts in newly-born children. Occasionally a cutaneous nsevus fades in the centre whilst it continues to spread at its margin. Nsevi involving the skin sometimes ulcerate, and may shrink and become cicatricial as the ulcer heals. Ulceration occasionally leads to ha?morrhage which may be alarming. Angiomas of the mucous membranes may be the source of repeated and sometimes copious haemorrhages, as, for instance, from the nose, tongue, gums, bladder, and rectum. In cases of this nature the angioma may be an isolated growth, but in other instances the telangiectases are multiple, and present on the skin and mucous membranes. These vivhiple telangiectases have been observed chiefly in females, and in some instances have been hereditary. In the case of a woman aged 5i;, recorded by Sidney Phillips, there had been attacks of epistaxis since childhood, and for eleven years occasional bleeding from vascular patches on tlie tongue, and there were small red nsevoid spots on tlie skin of the trunk. The patient's father had suffered from bleeding from the nose and tongue, a sister died of bleeding from the gums,