464 TUMOURS were regarded as protozoa, whilst Sanfelice and others considered that the " parasites " of carcinoma were blastomycetes, a variety of the yeast fungus. The bodies described by Plimmer varied in size from 0'004 mm. to 0-04 mm. or more in diameter, and consisted usually of a central nucleus, surrounded by a layer of protoplasm and a capsule. The process of multiplication usually occurred by budding, or by division of the nucleus and, later, of the capsule. In another form of division a process of segmentation occurred with the production of a number of parasites, each surrounded by its own capsule. Plimmer's investigations included an apparently successful attempt to cultivate the parasitic bodies on various culture media and the production of new growths, mostly of an endothelial nature, by inoculation of animals—especially in the lungs and peritoneum of the guinea-pig. The value of the work briefly mentioned above is very great when regarded merely as observations of histological appearances in cancer cells, but the interpretation of the facts observed has led to much discussion, the outcome of which is that the bodies in question are for the most part not parasitic, but can be explained as the various forms of cell degeneration, endogenous cell division, cell inclusions, or irregular forms of mitosis. The bodies described by Plimmer and cultivated by him in artificial media must be regarded as some simple form of micro-organism of the nature of blastomycetes, and as having no causal significance in the production of the malignant growths in which they were foimd. The researches of Farmer, Moore and Walker on the mode of cell division in cancerous growths appeared to throw some light on the nature of malignancy, and to suggest that a modification in the normal process of cell growth was the essence of the morbid process. It was already known that the chromatin in the cells of cancerous growths is liable to be diminished in amount, and von Hansemann attributed this diminution to pathological causes, such as an asymmetrical division in which an imequal number of chromosomes passes into the daughter nuclei, or a process of casting-out of chromosomes in which certain of the latter become displaced from the achromatic spindle and fail to be included in the daughter nuclei. Farmer, Moore and Walker, on the other hand, attempted to show that the diminution of chromatin in cancer cells is an exact halving of the amount; that the process is one of reduction-division, identical with that occurring normally in the reproductive cells of plants and animals preparatory to fertilization. The tissues of a carcinoma would, according to this view, correspond to the gametogenetic tissue arising in plants and animals by this process of reduction-division. Farmer, Moore and Walker indicate the analogy between the two tissues by designating