SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY 8 to vegetative growth a number of bacteria possess the faculty of pro- ducing " spores." These are specially resistant resting forms of the organisms concerned, and are produced within the vegetative cell. A tiny bead-like granule is produced within the cell which, as it grows, takes in a greater or less amount of the bacterial protoplasm and becomes surrounded by an extremely dense membrane. It thus presents itself as a thick-walled, highly refractile body, without vacuoles, and containing very little water in its protoplasm, and accordingly exhibits a remarkable resistance to unfavourable conditions. The spores thus formed may be spherical or egg-shaped, and may be situated either centrally or towards one end of the bacterial cell, whose outline may or may not be altered by their presence. In the case of B. anthracis, for example, the rod is unaltered in shape ; in other cases a variety of different forms are produced to which such terms as spindle-shaped, cuneate, clavate, and capitate have been applied. In the case of most bacteria only a single spore is formed by the vegetative cell. The cell usually then breaks up, and the spore is set free. When the conditions of life again become favourable, germination of the spore takes place either by polar or equatorial dehiscence of the spore-membrane. The process is initiated by a general swelling of the spore, which takes up water, and becomes less markedly refrac- tile, assuming more the appearance of a vegetative cell, and a new- bacillus grows out from its protoplasm at the point of rupture of the enveloping membrane. Spores are not to be regarded as a normal stage in the multiplication of the bacteria concerned, but only as a special method of defence against injurious influences. Thus, while B. ontJiracis is killed by exposure to a temperature of 70° C. for about five minutes, its spores require boiling for about an equal time to ensure their death. Again, the B. suhtilis is killed by five to ten minutes' heating at 70° C, while at least an hour's boiling is necessary to destroy its spores. Bacterial spores are indeed the most resistant forms of life with which w'C are acquainted, and a number of the pathogenetic micro-organisms belong to the group of the spore-forming bacteria (e.g. B. anthracis, B. tetani, B. oedematis maligni). Spore-formation is only known with certainty among the bacilli, and it is still a question whether it is ever found among the vibriones and spirilla. Cocci do not form spores, though formerly it was su2:)posed that certain larger, deeply staining individuals sometimes seen among the other members of a chain of streptococci, for example, possessed resistant properties akin to those of spores. Accordingly they were given the name of arthrospores. It is now clearly proved, however, that these so-called arthrospores possess no greater resist- ance than the other individuals in the same culture.