79 BACILLUS TYPHOSUS In order to differentiate between the Bacillus coli, the Bacillus typhosus, and the Bacillus -paratijphosus, cultures must be made on special media, and the agglutination test with Imown agglutinating serums must be employed where the diagnosis otherwise remains in doubt. The following are the chief points of diagnostic value :— Milk is coagulated by the Bacillus coli, with the production of an acid reaction, but not by B. typhosus or B. paratyphosus. On potato the B. coli usually produces a brownish-coloured growth, B. typhosus and B. paratyphosus a colourless film. In lactose bouillon (previously freed from dextrose) B. coli yields an abundant gas-formation and acidifies the medium, while B. typhosus and B. paratyphosus form no gas. In dextrose media the B. coli and the B. paratyphosus cause fermen- tation of the sugar and the formation of gas, while the B. typhosus gives no gas-formation. In neutral red lactose bouillon (Dreyer and Fitz-Gerald),' within the first twenty-four hours at 37° C, the B. coli turns the medium to a pinkish-yellow colour and produces fluorescence. The B. typhosus changes the original iron-red colour to a deep magenta-red, and the B. paratyphosus renders the medium bright yellow. After from four to six days at the same temperature, the culture of B. coli has assumed a cherry-red or even a magenta-reddish hue, that of the B. typhosus has become yellow, that of B. paratyphosus remaining also yellow. No further change occurs, however long the incubation of the cultures is continued. This test affords a simple and quite certain means of differentiating between tlie three organisms in question. Other members of this extensive group of bacteria, such as the Bacillus lactis aerogenes (Gartner) and the Bacillus dysenterice (both Shigas's and Flexner's), are not of sufficient importance from a surgical standpoint to require description here. In culture they resemble the Bacillus typhosus, but according to some authorities Gartner's bacillus differs from it in fermenting lactose, while the Bacillus dysen- terice, though never producing gas in media containing sugars, gives a dark-grey or red-brown growth upon potato, thus distinguishing itself from tlie Bacillus typhosus. Bacillus tuberculosis (tubercle bacillus).^—The dis- covery of the tubercle bacillus (Plate 8) was announced by Koch in 1882. But from very early times tuberculosis had been regarded as an infectious disease (Isocrates, etc.), and in the Middle Ages the danger of infection from the handling of tuberculous material was clearly 1 Ordinary veal bouillon, to which are added 3 per cent, of lactose and 0 5 per cent, of 1 per cent, aqueous solution of neutral red (Griibler).