X-RAY EXAMINATION 636 sufficient to use the fluorescent screen, but, inasmuch as a simple transverse fracture of such a bone as the tibia may be overlooked by this method, it will be realized that this trouble-saving, but inaccurate, means of investigating injuries of bone must be relegated to a position of secondary importance. Plate 50, Fig. 4, is the radiogram of a simple transverse fracture of tibia which is readily demonstrable in the position indicated, and yet in this case most careful examination with the screen showed no sign of the injury. In order to get the fullest and most accurate knowledge of an injury, it is necessary that shadows should be secured, not in one plane only, but in two planes at right angles to one another, for it is possible that in one plane the ends of the fractured bones may be so placed that the presence of a fracture may remain unsuspected. Plate 51, Figs. 1 and 2, are radiograms of a case of fracture of the lower end of the fibula. Fig. 1 being a view secured in a postero-anterior direction, and Fig. 2 a view in a lateral direction. In Fig. 1 the fracture is unrecognizable, whereas in Fig. 2 its presence is obvious. The simplicity of the method of taking two views in planes at right angles to one another renders it very suit- able for gaining a true idea of the relative jjositions of the ends of the bone. For example, Figs. 3 and 4 are two views of a case of fracture of both bones of the forearm, 1 inch above the epiphysial line. In one plane the apposition and alignment of the fragments appear to be satisfactory, whereas in the second plane there is very marked maljjosition. In some parts of the body, views at right-angle planes are not obtainable (except in children), on account of the impossibility of securing an uninterrupted shadow ; thus in the hip-joint an antero- posterior view alone is possible, for the thickness of the body inter- feres with the lateral view. In examining such cases, it is necessary that the view secured should be one which is familiar to the observer, the smallest abnormality being then recognized and a diagnosis made. Where the epiphysial lines are still present it is sometimes difficult to distinguish them from fractures, but a mistake should not be possible when the epiphysial lines are familiar and a similar view of a normal bone is available. Imperfect shadows may exag- gerate deformity and give an altogether erroneous and misleading impression of the position of a fracture. The experienced interpreter will, however, make allowances for such exaggerations and distor- tions, and will thus arrive at a correct estimate of the position. In fracture cases, as elsewhere, X-ray examination alone and unaided by clinical observation will not supply all the information necessary for the formulation of a correct prognosis ; properly used, however, it wiU provide an absolutely certain diagnosis, if the affected part of the body permit an uninterrupted view. Even fractures of the