SERUM TREATMENT 91 greatest vaJue in the treatment of infections due to bacteria which elaborate sohtble toxins—such as diphtheria and tetanus—and should invariably be used in such infections. The second and larger group comprises those bacteria whose toxin is linked up with the living cell protoplasm, and is only set free on the deatii and disintegration of the bacteria. Such a toxin cannot be readily separated from the bodies of the bacteria in artificial cultivations, and consequently its toxicity cannot be accurately determined ; moreover, if we are able successfully to immunize an animal against the bacterium giving rise to svich a toxin, we find that the resulting serum exerts a bactericidal rather than an antitoxic action. So that, given a patient suft'ering from an infection due to a bacterium of this second class, the question presents itself whether we shall employ the corresponding antibacterial serum in the hope of producing a passive immunity, or whether, by the use of a suitable vaccine, we shall endeavour to establish a condition of active immunity. No definite pronouncement can be given such as is possible when discussing infections due to bacteria producing soluble toxins. Each case nmst be judged according to the surrounding circumstances, and in those infections for which antibacterial serums are available this fact will be duly considered. SERUM TREATMENT Antiserums and their preparation.—Antiserums, as already stated, )nay l)e antitoxic or antibacterial. Antitoxic serums are obtained from animals immunized against the soluble toxin present in broth cultivations of some particular organism, and the method of preparation of such serums has already been described in the previous article, in connexion with the diphtheria bacillus p. 74). The chief antitoxic serums are those of diphtlieria and tetanus. Antibacterial serums are prepared by similar!}' immunizing animals against living or dead cultivations of the bacteria themselves, and have been prepared against streptococcus, staphylococcus, gonococcus, pneumococcus, meningococcus, M. melitensis, B. coU, B. typJiosus, B. dysenterire, B. pestis, and B. anthracis. Of these but few have proved of any considerable practical value. The antiserums for strej)- tococcus. and B. anthracis, are indeed the only ones that need serious consideration by the surgeon. It will be well here, perhaps, to point out that the introduction of foreign serum into the human economy is sometimes followed by slight and unimportant, although annoying, toxic symptoms, which in no way depend upon the antibacterial properties of the serum,