NAKED-EYE APPEARANCES OF TUBERCLE 713 may generally be found, the caseation being largely due to tlie local action on the tissues of the products of the bacillary activity. During the process of the formation of the tubercle follicles the endothelium of the vessels at the focus becomes swollen and undergoes degenerative changes, and as a result occlusion of the vessels is brought about. Thus the nodules are non-vascular, and this absence of vessels is no doubt one of the causes of the central degenerative changes. The caseous parts may undergo softening and liquefaction, and thus irregular cavities or ulcers may be produced. In chronic cases an overgrowth of fibrous tissue (Plate 70, Fig. 2) takes place. Tliis may occur especially at the periphery of the nodule, and thus the caseous area may become enclosed in a fibrous capsule. Commonly, however, the fibrous tissue extends inwards towards the centre of the nodule, and processes may be found in direct communication with the periphery of the giant cells, or it may also extend at the periphery and invade the surrounding tissue. In this way the B. tuberculosis may be completely shut in, and with the over- growth of fibrous tissue a complete healing of the nodule be effected. It is usual, however, to find a certain amount of caseous or calcareous material towards the centre of even extremely dense fibrous scars which have originated as a result of infection with the B. tuberculosis, and, microscopically, giant cells are frequently seen. Naked-eye appearances of tubercle.—The nodules are at first small, rounded, or irregular in shape, translucent or grey in colour, and firm in consistence. These " grey granulations " may be few in number or may be widely scattered and extremely numerous— miliaru tuberculosis. They gradually increase in size, separate nodules coalesce, and thus larger caseous areas are produced. The nodules are commonly surrounded by a zone of hypersemia, and there may be distinct inflammatory reaction. It is not uncommon in tuberculosis of serous membranes to find the nodules embedded in a thin layer of lymph, and the cavity lined by the membrane may contain an excess of turbid fluid. In some situations the nodule may be surrounded by a definite zone of granulation tissue. In certain cases, instead of forming discrete nodules, the tuber- culous process is seen as a general infiltration from one focus. Thus, extensive infiltration of the testicle may be the result of a local spread from a primary centre in the epididymis ; or, again, localized tuber- culous masses in the brain, and especially in the cerebellum, generally arise in this way. As these masses increase in size they undergo degenerative changes, especially of the nature of caseation, and they assume a yellowish- white colour. These " yellow tubercles" may form nodules from one to two inches in diameter, which may become encapsuled by