GANGRENE 228 Symptoms.—The local effects of cold are manifested in several ways. A limited exposure to intense cold causes the skin to become cedematous, swollen, and dusky-red or purple in colour. The redness disappears on pressure and returns very slowly. This condition is known as pernio or cliilhlain, and the phenomena which accompany it are due to the sluggish circulation. The patient's attention is attracted by the sensation of burning and intolerable itching that exposure to heat induces. The toes and fingers are usually attacked; and the condition tends to disappear as the warm weather approaches. Should the cold act for a longer period, obstinate cracks and fissures appear, or a blister may form and be followed by an acute spreading ulcer which is atonic and very slow in healing. When gangrene develops the skin becomes livid and marbled, bulte rapidly form, and the necrotic tissue separates in the form of dry white or black sloughs. In some instances the reactionary inflammation and its attendant thrombosis may be so extensive as to lead to the death of a whole limb. In these cases the gangrene has a great tendency to become dry, spreads very slowly, and, as in senile gangrene, may repeatedly extend beyond an abortive line of demarcation. Treatment—A patient afi'ected by cold, and threatened with frost-bite, should be removed from the low temperature as soon as possible and placed in a room with a very small fire, for if he be brought immediately into a warm atmosphere, sudden vaso-dilatation and thrombosis will be favoured. The threatened parts should be rubbed gently with snow or smooth pieces of ice to commence with, and after- wards with cold water until signs of returning circulation appear ; the temperature of the room may then be raised gradually to 50° F., at which it should be kept until the vitality of the member is assured. The patient should then be wrapped in blankets, put to bed, and given lukewarm soup or cofliee, but no alcohol. If gangrene super- venes the part must be kept dry and aseptic while a line of demarca- tion is awaited. A superficial slough, or a small portion of a digit, may be allowed to separate naturally, but gangrene of a portion of an extremity should be treated by amputation at a convenient distance above its limits as soon as there is definite evidence of a permanent line of demarcation. 3. Gangrene due to escharotics. — Strong acids and alkalis cause immediate local necrosis by their caustic action. Acids coagulate the blood and cytoplasm, while alkalis cause liquefaction of the tissues ; hence in the former the gangrene is dry, and in the latter moist. Within recent years many cases of gangrene due to the local application of carbolic acid have been recorded. In nearly every instance it followed the employment of a dilute solution (1-100, 1-50), applied for several hours as a wet dressing to a finger