PREPARING THE PATIENT FOR OPERATION 257 lotion, or pulled on after wetting the hands with spirit; if dry gloves— which we prefer—be employed, they should be powdered inside with sterilized talc and drawn over the thoroughly dried and powdered hands ; the powder should not be used in such quantity as to form a definite deposit inside the glove. A special gloving machine has been invented which, depending on the creation of a vacuum outside the glove, distends it and enables the surgeon to slip his hand straight into it. It seems to us, however, quite imnecessary. Any moisture must now be squeezed out, and the sleeves of the garment introduced beneath the wrists of the gloves ; the surgeon is then ready to commence work (Fig. 17). PREPAEATION OF THE PATIENT The patient should, if possible, be under observation for forty- eight hours before operation, with a view to thorough general examination and record, and also to accustom him to his surroundings and to confinement in bed. During this period the bowels should be cleared out and the oral hygiene attended to. The teeth should be scaled and cleaned, and the mouth systematically washed out, especially in all operations involving the mouth, jaws, neck, and digestive tract, and in cases requiring prolonged anaesthesia. If this precaution be rigidly observed, the number of cases developing post- operative pneumonia, secondary parotitis, etc., will be greatly reduced. In gastric cases and in cases of intestinal obstruction, especially if stercoraceous vomiting be present, lavage of the stomach should be practised. Its slight addition to the shock is more than counter- balanced by the increased safety of the operative procedure and the lessened risk in the administration of the anfesthetic. The skin for a wide area round the proposed site of operation may be prepared as follows :— On two days before the operation the site is shaved for the purpose of removing not only hair, but also superficial epidermis, and then thoroughly washed with soap and warm water for fifteen minutes. The nail-brush should be freely used for all patches of roughened and hardened sldn, such as that of the hands, feet, and prepatellar region, but on delicate skins it frequently does more harm than good, by causing abrasion and liyperajmia, and by scrubbing in micro- organisms. The part should then be swabbed over with turpentine and with ether, followed by some efficient antiseptic lotion, and finally covered with weak antiseptic compresses. Warning is neces- sary against the use of weak carbolic compresses on fingers or toes, for fear of gangrene. On the evening before operation this dressing is removed and the k