BIER'S TREATMENT 191 A warning should be given against the use of carbohc fomentations on fingers and toes, where locaUzed gangrene may be caused by the use of this dressing. A limb should be raised and put on a splint in the position in which it is most comfortable ; all natural hollows between limb and splint should be carefully padded. In these cir- cumstances, should the abscess burst, the pus will come in contact only with puriiied parts and dressings. Spongiopilin may be used instead of the fomentation cloth and macintosh. Antiphlogistin and Unna's 88-plaster are said to possess valuable palliative properties. It is hardly necessary to state that poultices made with bran, bread, linseed, carrot, onion, charcoal, etc., are not to be employed. Bier's hyperwuiic treatment.—The employment of this method is increasing. My own experience is limited. I consider that some of its aspects are open to serious theoretical objections. Many of its admirers are giving it up in the treatment of erysipelas and other streptococcic infections ; they also do not advise its employment when there are varicose veins and other venous conditions ; and they con- sider its use is unwise in diabetes, and that it should not be used in diseases of the head and neck where arterio-sclerosis exists. It requires great care and continual supervision in all but the least serious infective processes, and much skill and experience are necessary for its proper administration. The object of the treatment is to imitate and encourage the benefits obtained in the early stages of inflammation, so the parts are congested and flushed out by inducing a passive and, in some cases, an active hypera?mia. When applying the passive hyperfemic method, the parts must not be made white or blue ; the arterial system must not be obstructed. There must be no increase of pain ; Q?dema must be shght and transient, or, better, it ought not to occur. The congestion must be intermittent; as a broad rule it may be applied once a day, for from twenty minutes to an hour. The methods of application are three—[a) bandaging, (h) suction, (c) hot air. {a) Bandaging.—This is applied to the extremities, scrotum, head and neck. Martin's indiarubber bandage wrapped four or five times round the limb with one-third overlap is the best in the case of limbs. Tourniquet rubber is best for the hips and shoulders ; any bony pro- minences on which it might press unduly are protected by pads. Garter elastic is best for use in the head and neck ; pads should be placed to compress the internal jugular vein ; the same form of elastic should be used in scrotal and testicular lesions. All bandaging should be between the heart and the affected parts. (h) Suction.—This can be effected by means of cupping glasses— to which a means of exhaust is attached—of various shapes that fit