ROUTINE BEFORE OPERATION -55 water, and then in running water, for ten minutes at least. Up to tliis point all surgeons agree. After this, liowever, a great variety of practice exists. It is our custom thoroughly to rub the hands and arms with swabs soalced in methylated spirits after carefully drying, and prior to putting on dry sterilized gloves. Others immerse their hands and arms in various solutions, such as carbolic (U40 or U60), perchloride of mercury (U1,000 to 1-2,000). biniodide of mercury (U2,000) in either watery or alcoholic solution, lysol (1 per cent.). Of these we believe the biniodide of mercury to l)e the best, inasmuch as it does not damage the hands or the instruments, nor does it coagulate albumins so much as does the perchloride. Carbolic and lysol are of value for their permeating antiseptic properties, but cannot be tolerated by many skins. We 2^i'efer the watery to the alcoholic solution of biniodide for its smaller cost and greater efficiency. If immersion in an antiseptic lotion be adopted, the most suitable method is to stand with each hand and arm up to the elbow in a confectioner's jar containing iAie solution. Scliatz introduced the inethod of immersion in a saturated solution of potassium permanganate followed by bleaching in a saturated solution of oxalic acid ; this is, however, very trying to sensitive skins. From time to time, attempts have been made to coat the hands with a flexible but impermeable coating of indiarubber dissolved in tetrachloride of carbon or other solvent, but without great success. Routine before operation.—Whilst some authorities, espe- cially on the Continent, lay great stress on bathing, oral disin- fection, and entire change into sterilized clothing before entering the operating room, in this country most surgeons content themselves with less drastic methods, apparently without detriment to the aseptic result. Where possible the preparation of the surgeon and his assis- tants should be carried out in an anteroom and not in the operating theatre itself. The surgeon, having put on over-boots and macintosh apron, if it be his custom to use them, proceeds to cleanse and disinfect his hands and arms thoroughly by the methods detailed above. Then from a sterilizer drum, held open for him by one of his assistants, he takes a sterilized overall and puts it on, being careful to avoid any contact with its outer surface. A sterilized cap and mask having been fastened on, he proceeds to the process of gloving. He must first assure himself that the gloves are free from needle punctures ; then, avoiding all handling of their outer surface with the naked hand, he seizes the everted wrist of the glove and draws it on as far as possible by gentle traction, completing the accurate fitting by stroking the fingers upwards with sterilized gauze. If gloves sterilized wet be used they may be floated on while full of