GONORRHCEAL ARTHRITIS S47 urethritis, and is especially liable to commence about the third or fourth week of the discharge. It has a curious and marked tendency to affect certain joints in preference to others. This is well shown in the following table, drawn up by Finger from 376 cases recorded by various observers :— Knee . . 136 Elbow . 25 Ankle . . 59 Shoulder . 24 Wrist . . 43 Hip . . 18 Fingers . 35 Jaw . 14 Other joints Unlike true rheumatism, gonorrhojal rheumatism attacks few joints at the same time—as a rule, only one or two. The inflammation develops suddenly in most cases ; the joint, which was apparently perfectly well a few hours before, at once becomes painful and swollen. The disease is, however, peculiarly variable in its course, sometimes coming on suddenly, and at others by slow degrees. The joint becomes distended with a slightly turbid serous exudation, which under favourable conditions may become purulent. In other cases the intra-articular effusion is comparatively slight as compared with the oedema of the periarticular structures. The skin over the joint is rarely reddened or oedematous. The exudation fluid in the joint undergoes gradual absorption, though occasionally it may last as a troublesome chronic serous exudation. More frequently the arthritis leads to a j^artial or complete ankylosis of the joint. A rare and grave development is the occurrence of suppuration ; such cases frequently have a fatal termination. It is characteristic of this form of rheumatism that the inflammation does not wander from joint to joint, hut remains in that which is first affected, though others may subsequently become inflamed. Other gonorrhocal inflammatory troubles not infrequently develop during the rheumatic attack, among them endocarditis, iritis and cyclitis, neuritis (more especially in the form of sciatica), teno-synovitis, and myositis. Prognosis.—The prognosis is in general good. The effusion into the joint gradually becomes absorbed, and the joint regains its free movement. Yet it should be remembered that there is the possibility of some stiffness or ankylosis following, or else of an incomplete disappearance of the fluid and a chronic hydrops of the joint. Treatment.—The treatment of gonorrhoeal synovitis is usually conducted on general surgical lines, as in other forms of acute s}Tiovitis —rest and fixation of the joint by means of light, well-padded sphnts, and anodyne applications to reheve the pain during the acute stage.