SPINAL ANALGESIA 690 details of 100 cases in tliis year and of 200 in 1908. Amoijg other surgeons in this country who have adopted the method of spinal analgesia may be mentioned Leedhani-Green of Birmingham, who uses chiefly tropacocaine, and Dean, who, like the author, adopted Barker's method. This latter has been extensively used in the Seamen's Hospital, Greenwich, and in the hospital of the Eoval Army Medical College, Millbank. Anatomical points.—1. The spinal theca extends from the foramen magnum to the second sacral vertebra. 2. The lowest point of the spinal cord within the theca is oppo- site the intervertebral disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrae. 3. The depth of the theca depends on the physical development of the patient. In the adult its average depth is 2J to 2| inches. 4. The only vessels of any importance in spinal analgesia are con- tained in the epidural space. They are the two longitudinal venous trunks, united by transverse branches opposite the bodies of the vertebrse, with which they lie in contact, each being about 4 mm. from the middle line (Fig. 192). 5. The line joining the highest points of the crests of the iiia passes between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. 6. The immediate posterior relations of the theca in the middle line are, from behind forwards, the skin, the subcutaneous fat, the supra- spinous ligament, the interspinous ligament, the interspace between the ligamenta subflava, and the areolar tissue of the epidural space with the veins on either side. Characters of the cerebro-spinal fluid. (See p. 616.) Indications for the employment of spinal analgesia. —This method may be used with advantage— 1. Where the operation is complicated by the presence of (a) Respiratory disease, especially bronchial and tracheal obstruction. (b) Cardiac disease, especially double mitral and aortic lesions. (c) Acute or chronic inflammation of the kidneys. (d) Aortic aneurysm. (e) Thyroid enlargement. (/) Marked atheroijia. (f/) Suspected status lymphaticus (possibly). 2. Where operative procedure is hampered by engorge- ment of the parts and consequent persistent oozing of blood, e.g.— (a) Rectal operations, with possibly the exception of haemor- rhoids, in which some engorgement is rather an ad- vantage.