REPAIR IN MUSCLES AND TENDONS 157 be seen one which has apparently surrounded itself with sarcoplasm, suggesting an attempt at re-formation ; whilst at other parts leuco- cytes, red blood-corpuscles, and other cells which have penetrated into the sarcolemma sheaths are seen. Around the degenerating muscle fibres there is, according to Dawson, a very active proliferation of the cells of the endomysium and of the capillary endothelium, and thus the tubes filled with cells which replace the degenerated muscle fibres are surrounded by a meshwork of branching fibroblasts and numerous young blood-vessels. Multinucleated masses of protoplasm are also seen, formed appar- ently by division of the nuclei of the cells of the sarcolemma without division of the cytoplasm. These are regarded as muscle giant cells, and they are intensely phagocytic to the muscle substance and also to other cells. The muscle fibres in which degeneration is not so marked frequently show multinucleated, swollen ends, and it may be difficult to distinguish those from the muscle giant cells. Dawson states that the end stumps can be recognized as elements of regenera- tion, and must be regarded as the muscle "" buds '' of Neumann. Again, in certain parts of the wound he finds muscle fibres dissociated into fibrils. This fissuring has in many cases every sign of a degenerative splitting-up of the fibre into its constituent fibrils. From other fibres, however, either from the sides or from the ends, long, narrow, spindle- shaped portions with elongated nuclei break oft'. In the sm'rounding tissue can be traced all transitions from these to long ribbon forms with many nuclei, which later become new muscle fibres. These new muscle fibres, however, seem comparatively unimportant functionally, and muscularization of a scar can only take place to a very limited extent. ^^'ith increasing condensation of the scar tissue even these new muscle fibres to a great extent atrophy. REPAIR IN TENDONS If the cut ends of a tendon are brought into strict apposition, du'ect union seems possible, and the healing is perfect, both anatomi- cally and functionally. If the apposition is less perfect, a mass of granulation tissue will foim between the separated ends. The cells of this are largely derived from the connective-tissue sheath of the tendon, the cells of this sheath showing definite proliferative changes in forty-eight hours. This granulation tissue becomes gradually less cellular ; eventually a dense connective-tissue scar unites the two ends. The true tendon cells also give evidence of proliferation, but at a much later period (four or five days) than the cells of the peritendinous connective tissue. The scar tissue gradually contracts and becomes so dense that it is diffi- cult to distinguish it from the original structure of the tendon. With