TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 803 Half a grain of grey powder should be given in milk three times a day; if there is any diarrhoea, gr. iii of pulv. cretse aromat. may be added. After 9 months of age the dose should by gradual increase be doubled. This treatment should be continued for two years, and then followed by Hlv-x of syrupus ferri iodidi three times a day for three weeks. If symptoms have not disappeared before the iodide is started, or if it is advisable to get the child quickly under the influence of mercury—for instanc?, in cases of epiphysitis, iritis, etc.— the internal treatment should be augmented by inimctions, gr. x-xx of ung. hydrarg. being rubbed in gently for about an hour every other night, a fresh site being chosen for each application. The rubbing should be performed either in the early morning or in the evening ; the part is then to be well covered with a flannel binder, and the ointment washed off at the next bath-time. Infants are especially liable to dermatitis ; therefore it is impor- tant never to allow any of the ointment to get near the groins, where the urine acts as an additional irritating factor. Should dermatitis ensue, inunctions must be stopped and recourse had to injections. While injections are being used tlie oral administration must be stopped. Intramuscular injection into the glutei of a 10 per cent, emulsion of mercury salicylate in liquid jjarafhn or almond oil is the best. The injection, Uliii, should be given twice a week for six weeks, or until symptoms have disappeared ; iodides should then be exhibited. If the child has open sores, nothing is so efficacious as a mercurial bath, containing gr. xx of the perehloride in 3 gallons, continued daily until the sores have healed. Application of emplastrum cinereum, or wearing next to the skin clothes impregnated with mercury, is a useful adjunct in treatment if neither of the above forms can be borne. After the first year the treatment should be intermittent, i.e. one of the above methods should l)e employed for six weeks, or until symptoms have disappeared, and then followed by iodides. This course should be repeated three times a year for the ensuing two yeai's. Congenital syphilis with late manifestations should be treated, by preference, with inunctions or injections. An infant tjorn with svphilitic manifestations should not be injected with salvarsan, as the rislc of deatli is too great, the death being caused by substances (endotoxins) liberated by the dissolution of tlie spirochgetes. If the injection be given to tlie mother who is suckling sucli a child, tlie manifestations of syphilis in the child will usually disappear as the result of the action of antibodies contained in the milk of the mother and derived from the disintegration of her