SYMPTOMS OF SHOCK 327 have shown that shock is always associated with a fall iii the arterial blood pressure, which is jsrogressive as the shock deepens, and that recovery from shock is coincident with a rise in the blood pressure to normal. SYMPTOMATOLOGY Mental—The patient in shock is in a condition of mental torpor, but, luiless under the influence of an anfesthetic, is perfectly conscious and able to talk and answer questions rationally. As a rule, there is great anxiety and a fear of impending death ; but the expression of the fear is dulled by the mental torpor, and usually the only phy- sical expression of the fear is a wrinkling of the forehead. In some cases, however, there is restlessness, and the patient may be in a state of great excitement, and even act maniacally. Musculature.—With the exception of the last-mentioned cases the musculature is relaxed, the patient lying perfectly quiet and not moving unless disturbed. Pulse.—The pulse is usually rapid, but it may be slow, the most characteristic features being weakness, low tension, and small volume. The heart-beat is feeble, often irregular, and not all the beats may reach to the radial pulse. Respiration.—The respiration is shallow, slow, and of en irregular. Careful observation may be necessary to be sure that the patient is breathmg. Pallor.—The patient is pale and slightly cyanosed, so that he joresents a leaden-grey colour, and his body and face are bathed in a cold, clammy sweat. Temperature.—The temperature, taken in the axilla, is usually subnormal, but if the rectal temperature be taken it is often found to be raised. Pupils.—The pupils are usually slightly dilated, but react to light. If the shock is associated with head injury the pupils may be different in size, or they may be contracted. The conjunctival reflex is present. Sphincters.—The sphincters are usually relaxed, the patient passing his uruie and fteces under him ; but not infrequently reten- tion of urine is present. The amoimt of urine is diminished in quantity, the kidneys sharing in a general functional depression of all the organs of the body. PATHOLOGY An examination of the symptoms of shock, its pathological anatomy, experiments performed on man and animals, and clinical investiga- tions, all go to show that the most important j)henomenon is a fall in