# * Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. BENHAM & SONS, MANUFACTURING AND FURNISHING IEOIIOI&EES, 50, 52, 54, WIGMORE STREET. MARBLE AND CARVED WOOD CHIMNEY-PIECES, In the CINQUE CENTO, LOUIS XVI., “QUEEN ANNE,” “ADAM,” AND OTHER STYLES. STOVES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION, TO CORRESPOND WITH THE ABOVE, Including many specially designed and modelled by the late Alfred Stevens. CHINA TILE PANELS for FIREPLACES, ALSO TO CORRESPOND WITH THE ABOVE, FROM SPECIAL PRIVATE DESIGNS. COOKING APPARATUS AND HEATING APPARATUS. Engineering in all Branches, FOR LARGE OR SMALT. ESTABLISHMENTS. ION KS 22101894456 JOHN HODGKIN, F.L.S. STREET,Med its.—National Training School for Cookery. K10099 nunnIMAN’S PURE TEA IS THE BEST. J70R upwards of 40 years Messrs. Horniman have supplied the public with Tea through authorized agents ; this system has proved so great a success that upwards of five millions of Packets are annually sold by 3,538 Agents. This celebrated Tea is to be obtained in Packets only, bearing the Importers’ signature, and the price printed on each. The consumer can thus ensure having the same article at all seasons of the year, as Messrs. Horniman’s standard quality of excellence is known to be “ always good alikeT The principal reasons why Horniman’s Pure Tea is preferred are,—great strength, delicious flavour, selection only of the early Spring crop, and entire disuse of all mineral facing-powder used by the Chinese on the teas ordinarily sold. HORNIMAN’S PACKET TEA CAN BE HAD OF CHEMISTS IN THE COUNTRY, AND CONFECTIONERS IN LONDON. For List of Agents in your locality, see the Newspapers of the District, or Particulars at the Railway Stations.THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY CONTAINING THE LESSONS ON COOKERY WHICH CONSTITUTE &bt Course cf Jfnstmtinn in % School WITH LISTS OF UTENSILS NECESSARY, AND LESSONS ON CLEANING UTENSILS. Compiled by R. O. C. FROM THE COURSE OF PRACTICE IN THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL. “The number of inhabitants who may be supported in any country, upon its internal produce, depends about as much upon the state of the Art of Cookery, as upon that of Agri- culture, but if Cookery be of so much importance, it certainly deserves to be studied with the greatest care. Cookery and Agriculture are arts of civilized nations: Savages understands neither of them.”—Count Rumford’s Works, Vol. i. FOURTH THOUSAND. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY. 1879. [All rights reserved. ]g& Z?r73 LONDON: BRADBURY, AGNEVV, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS, WELLCOME institute! LIBRARY 1 Coll. welMOmec 1 Call No. 1 1 ] |PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. I. This work has been written to explain in an easy and altogether new way the first principles of good Cookery, and in the form of lessons is especially addressed to those who wish to carry them into practice. It has been the aim of the writer to leave no detail, however small, vaguely stated. It is taken for granted that the learner has no knowledge on the subject. The loose expres- sions, such as “ a pinch,” “ a little,” found in all cookery books, are therefore avoided as much as is possible, and precise quantities are given. II. The work is not to be regarded as an exhaus- tive cookery book with numerous recipes. It aims to be rather a grammar than a dictionary. III. The lessons give a sufficient number of examples of cookery illustrating many degrees of cost: thus the rich may have a dish of curried rabbit for 35“. 8^., and the poor may have a dish of curried tripe for \o\d.Preface. IV IV. The work is based upon the instruction given by the cooks in the School, and has been used and tested in the National Training School for Cookery since 1875. The instructors now employed in local schools throughout the country have been taught and practised by means of these lessons. V. It has been found that it is most convenient to practise the lesson with the instructions in sight close at hand. An edition of each lesson has been ' printed on separate sheets of thick paper, for the use of students and teachers, which may be obtained at the National Training School for Cookery, or at any of the local schools. VI. The writer requests that the notice of any errors and omissions which are inevitable in a work of this kind may be communicated to R. O. C., to the care of the Publishers. R. O. C. May, 1878.CONTENTS » PAGE PREFACE I LISTS OF UTENSILS 7 LIST OF CLEANING MATERIALS . II LESSONS ON CLEANING 12 LESSONS ON COOKERY 17 INDEX 405 4-- . ; * ■ ■ 1 ,THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. INDEX MANUFACTURES, PRICE LISTS, AND OF TRADE ANNOUNCEMENTS. TO PARTICULARS OF ILL USTRA TIONS Baking Powder, &c.—Messrs. Freeman & Hildyard’s Preparations Baking Powder—Royal Balmoral—Mr. James Sinclair’s. Carlyle’s, Thomas, Works—Messrs. Chapman & Hall Chocolat Menif.r—Messrs. Emile Menier & Co. .... Cleansing Powder, &c.—Mr. J. M. Smith’s .... Coffee and Coffee Apparatus—Messrs. Picard & Co.’s Coffee Mills, &c.—Mr. J. F. Lovelock’s Confectioner, Royal, Francatelli’s—Messrs. Chapman & Hall Cooker, the Gas, New—Messrs. John Wright & Co.’s Cookery Requisites—Mr. George Kent’s List of . Cooking Range, Fire—“ The Thorncliffe,” Messrs. Newton, Chambers, &Co Cooking Stoves, Gas—Messrs. D. Hulett & Co.’s Cooking Stoves, Gas—Mr. F. Hammond’s ...... Cooking Stoves, Gas—Mr. J. Williamson’s Cooking Stoves, Gas—Messrs. Pryn, Stephens & Miller’s . Cooking Stoves, Gas—Messrs. E. Rippingille & Co.’s .... Cooking Stoves, Gas—Messrs. S. Leoni & Co. ’s . Cooking Stoves, Gas—Mr. H. T. Fisher’s Cooking Stoves, Gas—Mr. F. Michel’s Cooking Stoves, Gas (Southby’s Patent)—Messrs. Wilson & Blessley Corn Flour—Messrs. Brown & Poison’s Cutlery—Messrs. Joseph Rodgers & Sons (Limited) .... Dickens’, Charles, Works—Messrs. Chapman & Hall Electro-Silvering and Gilding—Mr. F. Ewbank Leefe Filters—The Silicated Carbon Filter Co., used at the National Training School of Cookery, South Kensington Geyser, The, &c.—Mr. B. W. Maughan’s Ice Safes—The Wenham Lake Ice Company’s Ironmongery, Furnishing—Messrs. Benham & Sons . . 2nd page of cover Ironmongery, Furnishing—Messrs. Adams & Son 429 Ironmongery, Furnishing—Mr. E. K. Wilson’s Price List . . 454. Kitchen Ranges—Messrs. Brown & Green’s .... Kitchen Ranges, “Mistress”—Messrs. Smith & Wellstood . Kitchen Ranges—Messrs. Wm. Jones, Dray, & Co.’s . Knife Cleaner, “The Lady Help”—Messrs. R. Hodd & Sons Knife Polish, &c.—Messrs. Oakey & Son’s..... Macassar Oil, &c.—Messrs. A. Rowland & Sons Meat, Extract of—Liebig’s Company’s ..... Mochara—The Mochara Coffee Company’s .... Mustard, &c.—Messrs. Keen, Robinson, Belville, & Co.’s . Ox Tongues, Paysandu—Messrs. McCall & Co. Paste Moulds, &c.—Mr. F. Foxall’s Pickles, Sauces, &c.—Messrs. Crosse & Blackwell Pickles, Sauces, &c.—Mrs. E. Lazenby & Son’s Plate Powder—Mr. J. Goddard’s Sauces & Pickles—Messrs. Batty & Co.’s Sauce, “Yorkshire Relish” &c.—Messrs. Goodall, Backhouse & Co Soap, Extract of—Mr. Hudson’s Soap, Cold Water—Mr. James Sinclair’s . ... Speciality de Cuisine—Messrs. R. Temple & F. Crook Taps—Thos. Burbidge’s Patent 455 435 445 433 448 421 3 rd page of cover 419 442 441 423 432 facing 3rd page of cover 444 423 45° 438 419 43i 440 436 facing 2nd page of cover Tea—Messrs. Horniman & Co.’s .... Tea—Messrs. Cooper Cooper & Co.’s. Washing & Wringing Machines—Messrs. Harper Twelvetrees & Co.’s Washing—Messrs. Manby & Son’s Preparation Weighing Machines—Messrs. Herbert & Son’s 425 434 423 453 449 452 434 45i 417 447 422 420 428 424 430 426 457 437 439 456 441 427 431 43i 418 45i 443 446 443 421 445LIST OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A FIRST • £18 4 9 Carry forward. CLASS SCHOOL KITCHEN, AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. List No. i. £ s. d. 3 copper stewpans, varying in size from 3 pints to 3 quarts . 1 18 6 3 enamelled stewpans, sizes from 1 pint to 2 quarts. ..096 1 copper sautdpan, 12s.; 12 iron saucepans, sizes from 1 pint to 2 gallons, £1 2s. gd. 1 14 9 Iron pot for boiling 096 Stock pot, to hold 8 quarts 0150 Frying pan 020 Iron omelet pan 010 Fish kettle 086 Frying basket and pan 080 Copper preserving pan .150 2 gridirons 090 Best brass bottle jack 0150 Block tin screen and dripping pan 136 Steamer and saucepan 086 Weights and scales, to weigh from \ oz. to 14 lbs. . ..190 Coffee mill, £17s.; 1 marble mortar and hardwood pestle, ^5^ 270 6 kitchen knives, ys. 9d.; 3 kitchen forks, $s o 12 9 12 iron spoons, 4^.; 6 wooden spoons, various sizes, 1 s. 6d. 056 1 fish slice, is.; 1 egg slice, 9d. 019 3 larding needles, 2s. 3d.; 1 trussing needle, 9d. . . .030 1 set of skewers, 2s.; 1 corkscrew, ij, 030 1 flour dredger, 1 s. 6d.; 1 sugar dredger, 2s. . . .036 1 paste board, 3s. 6d.; 1 chopping board, 3s. 6d. . ..070 1 rolling pin, is. 6d.; 1 cutlet bat, 3s. 6d. . . . .050 1 chopper, 3s. 6d.; 1 saw, 4s. 6d. 080 1 box of fluted cutters, 4^. 6d.; 1 box of round cutters, 3^. 6d. 080 1 box of vegetable cutters 056 1 egg whisk, is. 6d.; 1 grater, is 026 2 flour tubs, or 1 double bin . . . . . ..090 2 cake tins, 2s. \ 1 coffee pot (French), to hold 3 pints, 4^. 6d. 0668 National Training School for Cookery. £ s.d. Brought forward . . . .1849 2 block tin jelly moulds, sizes 1 pint and 1 quart . ..060 2 white china moulds, sizes 1 pint and 1 quart . . .016 1 iron kettle, to hold 3 quarts, ys. 6d.; 3 baking sheets, ys. 6d. 015 o 2 Yorkshire pudding tins, sizes 1 pint and 1 quart . .026 2 tartlette pans, and 12 patty pans 030 2 soufflde tins, sizes 1 pint and 1 quart 030 2 strainers, for gravy, &c. 5^.; 1 silk sieve, 2s 070 2 wire sieves, 6s.; 4 hair sieves, various sizes, ioj-. . . o 16 o 1 seasoning box, 5^.; 1 spice box, 2s. 3d. 07 3 1 tin cullender, is. 6d.; toasting fork, is 026 1 paste brush, is. ; 1 steel, 2s 030 1 string box and scissors, 4s. 6d.; I basting ladle, 2s. . .066 1 jelly bag and stand, 9 s. 6d.; 1 tammy cloth, 2s. y,d. . . on 9 6 pudding basins, sizes from \ pint to 3 pints . . .036. 12 basins (8 common, sizes from 1 quart to 4 quarts, and 4 lip basins, from 1 quart to 1 gallon) . . . . o 14 o 6 dishes, 5^.; 6 pie dishes, sizes from 1 pint to 2 quarts, $s. o 10 o 24 plates, 8j-. ; 1 salting pan, to hold 3 or 4 gallons, 4s. 6d. . 012 6 1 bread pan and cover, 3^.; 1 cheese pan and co^er, 3J. . o 6 o '3 wooden trivets, various sizes 026 1 black board for lectures (size about 5 feet by 4 feet) ..250 Kitchen range from £9 to 10 o o Gas stove from £12 to 14 o o Frymometer (for testing the heat of fat for frying) . . o 10 6 Frymometer [Cetti’s, n, Brooke Street, Holborn], for testing the heat of the oven for baking o 10 6 Fitting frymometer in the oven door . „ . . .050 ^52 9 3LIST OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A SECOND 1 coal shovel 009 £5 13 11 Carry forward. fO\0 V© CLASS SCHOOL KITCHEN, AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. List No. 2. £ S. d. 5 iron saucepans and covers, sizes i pint, i| pint, i quart, i| quart, and 4 quarts 091 1 iron saucepan and steamer o 6 o 1 gridiron .018 1 frying pan 016 1 iron kettle 056 1 tin cullender 010 1 Yorkshire pudding tin o o 10 1 baking tin 010 1 paste board 040 1 rolling pin 016 1 brass bottle jack o 10 o 1 tin roasting screen and ladle o 19 6 1 coal scuttle 036 1 cinder sieve 023 1 set fire irons 036 6 iron spoons 020 6 knives and forks 0120 wooden spoons 006 tea spoons 016 basins, various sizes 026 3 pudding basins 010 3 pie dishes 010 6 dishes, various sizes 050 12 meat plates 046 Seasoning box 046 1 toasting fork 010 1 dust pan o o 10 1 salt cellar, is.; 1 pepper box, 6d 016 ] mustard pot and spoon 026 1 hand bowl 020io National Training School for Cookery. £12 I 5 jQ s. d. Brought forward . . . 5 13 n I steel . . .. . . . . . ..020 1 dish tub .040 2 brown pans 020 3 jugs 020 1 meat saw ..020 1 chopper 023 Scales and weights 046 1 corkscrew 016 1 grater 010 I coffee pot, 2s. 3d.; 1 tea pot, 3-r. o 5 3 1 cake tin . . . 010 1 flour tub 026 Black board for lectures (size about 5 feet by 4 feet) ..250 Small range about 2 12 6£3 6 8 LIST OF CLEANING MATERIALS AND UTENSILS REQUIRED, AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. 1 pail, wooden Scrubbing brush Set of blacklead brushes Sweep’s brush . Flue brush .... Sink brush . Sieve brush .... Dust pan and brush . Broom (hair) .... Bass broom . 2 tubs, 4s. 6d. each i hearthstone . i box of blacklead . Whitening . . . . Rottenstorie . Bath brickdust . i quire emery cloth 6 lbs. of soda . i bar of scrubbing soap Sand Salt White chalk . i yard of house flannel . i leather i pair of gloves I cOal shovel . I cinder sifter i dust pan and coal hammer . i coal scuttle .... i set of fire irons • . £ s. d. o 3 6 o 2 o o 4 6 o I o o I 6 o o 9 o o 9 o 4 6 o 3 6 o 2 o o 9 o o o 6 o o 6 o o i o o i o o i o o 9 o o 7 o o ii 0 o 6 o o 6 o o 2 o o 6 o I o o o 9 o 3 o o 2 6 o 6 3 o 4 6 o IO 6LESSONS ON CLEANING STOVES, GRATES, AND KITCHEN UTENSILS. TO CLEAN AN OPEN KITCHEN RANGE. 1. We should rake out all the cinders and sift them into a scuttle for use. N.B.—All the dust should be thrown away. 2. We take a sweep’s brush and sweep down all the scot from the flues and oven. 3. We mix some pounded black lead in a gallipot with enough water to make it into a smooth thick liquid. 4. We dip the black lead brush in the mixture, and black-lead the whole of the range, beginning from the top of the stove, by the dampers, and then downwards. 5. When the black lead is dry we brush it all over with a dry brush. 6. We then take another brush and polish the range all over, so as to make it quite bright. N.B.—The bars of the stove should be done in the same way. 7. We take the sweep’s brush and sweep the remaining soot and dust from the stove and the hearth. 8. We polish the steel handles and bolts of the oven by rubbing them with emery paper. 9. The brass handles and bolts we should polish with bath brickdust and a leather. 10. We get a flannel and a pail of hot water, put in it some soda, and wash the hearth all over. N.B.—We must not wet it too much. 11. We take a hearthstone and rub it all over the hearth.Lessons on Cleaning, 13 12. We then wring the flannel out in the hot water, and smooth the hearth over, rubbing it lightly all in one direction. 13. We must black-lead and polish the inside of the fender in the same way as we did the range, and brighten the rim of it by rubbing it with emery paper. Now it is finished. TO LAY A FIRE. 1. We should place a few sifted cinders at the bottom of the grate. 2. We then put in a piece of crumpled paper, and arrange the sticks over it, laying them across each other. 3. We now put a few pieces of coal on the top, rather to the front, so as to leave a good draught at the back to draw the fire. 4. When the fire is lighted and has burned up a little we can add more sifted cinders mixed with the coal. 5. We should only put small quantities of coal and cinders on the fire at a time. Now it is finished. TO CLEAN A CLOSE KITCHEN RANGE. 1. We proceed in the same way as for an open range (see notes 1 and 2). 2. We must now take down the doors of the flues at the back of the range, and take off all the lids of the flues over the oven and boiler. 3. We take the turk’s head or flue brush, push it care- fully up each flue at the back, so as to sweep them as clean as possible. 4. We must then put it in the flues above the oven and boiler, and sweep all round.14 National Training School for Cookery. 5. We should pull out the drawer just below the oven, in which we shall find the soot has fallen. 6. We empty all the soot away and sweep out the drawer clean. 7. We now take the sweep’s brush and sweep down the range. 8. We black-lead, polish the range, and clean the hearth and fender as described for an open range (from note 3 to end). 9. We take down the iron plate-rack across the top of the range, and rub the bars with emery cloth. 10. We should dust the fire-irons, and if they are rusty, they should be rubbed with emery cloth or oil and leather. Now it is finished. TO CLEAN A GAS STOVE. 1. We require the same materials as for a kitchen range. 2. We lift out the bars at the top, and rub them with emery cloth until they are quite clean and bright. 3. We wash the top of the stove with a flannel dipped in hot water and soda, so as to remove all grease and dirt ; we then wring out the flannel, and partially dry the top of the stove. 4. We now black-lead and polish it in the same way as for the kitchen range. N.B.—We must be careful not to stop up the gas holes with black lead. 5. We place the bars back over the stove. 6. We polish the brass handles of the gas burners with bath brickdust and a leather. 7. We wash the tiles round the stove with the flannel, hot water, and soda. 8. We dry them with a cloth. Now it is finished.Lessons on Cleaning. 15 TO CLEAN AN IRON SAUCEPAN. 1. We should wash the saucepan well in hot water and soda. N.B.—All the black should be removed from the outside and bottom. 2. We must soap the palm of one hand, and rub the inside of the saucepan. N.B.—In washing any greasy utensil it is best if possible to use the hand instead of a flannel, as the latter retains the grease and so keeps putting the grease on again instead of rubbing it off. 3. We mix some sand and powdered soda together, and then dip the soap into it and rub the inside of the saucepan until it is quite clean and bright. 4. We now rinse it in water and dry it with a cloth. 5. We should clean the lid in the same way. N.B.—A white enamelled stewpan is cleansed in the same way, great care should be taken to remove all the stains off the white enamel inside. N.B.—Salt might be mixed with the sand and used to remove the stains from the enamel. Now it is finished. TO CLEAN A COPPER STEWPAN. 1. We mix some sand and salt together on a plate, half the quantity of salt to that of sand. 2. We wash the stewpan well in hot water and soda. 3. We soap the hand, dip it in the salt and sand, and rub the inside of the pan until all stains are removed and it • has become clean and bright. 4. We rinse it out well in the water, dry the inside quickly, and then turn over the pan and clean the copper outside.Now it is finished. 16 National Training School for Cookery. 5. We should rub it in the same way with a soaped hand dipped in sand and salt. N. B.—If there are many stains on it, an old half lemon or vinegar might be used to remove them. N.B.—Only the copper part should be cleaned with lemon or vinegar. 6. We now rinse it again thoroughly, and dry it quickly with a cloth.LESSONS ON COOKERY, ROASTING. Now we will show you how to roast meat at an open range, but first we must see that the fire is clear and bright. 1. We must take the shovel and put it in at the back of the fire and push all the red hot coals to the front. 2. We put fresh coal at the back, packing it together rather closely, but taking care that we leave a draught at the back, to draw the fire and make it burn clear and bright. 3. We must fill in all the spaces in the front of the fire with small lumps of coal or coke. N.B.—If it be a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out the centre damper only, which will create a draught at the back, and help to draw the fire up quickly. 4. We now take our joint, say a leg of mutton, 5. We must see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, we must scrape it with a knife and wipe it over with a clean cloth. N.B.—Meat should not, as a rule, be washed in water, as it takes some of the goodness out. If meat has been kept some time and is not quite fresh, then you might wash it with a little vinegar and water, but it must be well wiped afterwards. 6. We take the leg of mutton and with a sharp knife cut off the knuckle bone. N.B.—The knuckle lone we put aside ; it can be used with beef for beef tea, or be put in the stockpot, or the trimmings and one pint of water will make gravy for the joint when done, allowing it to simmer while the joint is roasting. B18 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We trim off the piece of flank and remove the thick piece of skin from the part where the leg joins the loin. (These trimmings must be put aside, as they can be used for other purposes.) 8. We must now weigh the leg of mutton,, so as to find out how long it will take to roast it, as a quarter of an hour is allowed for each pound of weight, and one quarter of an hour besides. N.B.—When we have a joint without hone, such as rolled ribs of beef o\ topside of beef, we must allow twenty minutes to each pound of weight, as it is all solid meat. 9. We take the leg of mutton, which weighs say seven pounds, it will therefore take two hours to roast. 10. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire to keep off the draught and keep in all the heat. 11. We put the dripping pan down on a stand within the screen, close to the fire, with the dripping ladle. 12. We hang the roasting jack up from the mantelpiece over the dripping pan. N.B.—Some roasting screens contain the dripping pan and the jack, which are of course more convenient. 13. We take the hook of the roasting jack and pass it through the knuckle-end of the leg. 14. We must wind up the jack with the key, before we put the joint on, so as to make it twist the meat round. 15. We must put the joint close to the fire for the first five minutes. 16. After that time we can draw the joint a little further back, or it will cook too quickly and become burnt and dried. N.B.—Meat that is frozen must be placed some way from the fire at first, and then drawn gradually towards it, as it must thaw slowly or it may become tough. 17. We must baste the joint every five minutes with the drippings that run from it into the pan, using the dripping ladle. 18. We let the joint roast for two hours, as its weight is seven pounds. 19. After that time, and just before we dish up theLessons on Cooking Meat.—Roasting. Now it is finished. 19 joint, we must sprinkle about a saltspoonful of salt over it, and then baste it well. 20. We must take a large dish and warm it well. 21. Now we can take the hook of the jack, and place the joint on to the hot dish, and draw out the hook. 22. We take about a gill of hot stock and pour it into the dish. [This makes' the gravy, and when the joint is cut, the juices from the meat will add to it.] 23. We must take a piece of demy paper and cut it like a fringe. This we put round the end of the knuckle bone. N.B.—The dripping in the pan should be poured into a basin, and when it is cold there will be under the crust of dripping a good gravy. When the dripping is required for use it must be carefully removed from the fop of the gravy, and clarified. (See Lesson on “Frying.”) Nearly all joints can be roasted in this way. Attention should be paid to the rules explained above concerning joints of meat without bone.20 National Training School for Cookery. BOILING/ Now we will show you how to boil meat. 1. We must give attention to the fire, and build it up gradually with small pieces of coal, so as to make it burn clear and bright. 2. We must not have a smoky fire for boiling, or the meat will get smoked, we should start with a good fire> and keep it up by adding occasionally small coal and so prevent smoke as much as possible. N.B.—We do not require such a clear bright fire as for roasting. 3. We now take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the joint to be cooked. 4. We fill the saucepan almost full of cold water, and put it on the fire to warm. N.B .—Salt should always be added to the water in the saucepan to make the water taste, unless the meat to be cooked is already salted, in which case it should be omitted. 5. We now take the joint\ say, for example, a piece of the silver side of beef salted. 6. We must see that it is quite clean, and if necessary we must scrape it with a knife, and wipe it over with a clean cloth. N.B.—Meat should not as a rule be washed in water, as it takes some of the goodness out. Meat that has been kept some time, and is not quite fresh, might be washed with vinegar and water, but it must be well wiped afterwards. N.B.—Salt meat must not be washed with vinegar and water, but only with salt and water. 7. We must now weigh the piece of salt beef \ so as to find out how long it will take to boil, as ten minutes are allowed for each lb. of meat. N.B.—This rule refers to the boiling of all meat except fork, which requires fifteen minutes to each lb. of meat. i , A. —In boiling meat to be eaten the joint should be first plunged into boiling water, in order that the albumen on the outside of the joint may become hardened, and so prevent the escape of the juices of the meat. B. —The temperature of the water should then be lowered gradually (by adding a small quantity of cold water and drawing the saucepan to the side oi the fire), and the meat allowed to simmer gently, or it will become tough.Lessons on Cooking Meat—Boiling. 21 Now it is finished. C. —Ik boiling meat for the purpose of making soup, the meat should be put into cold water, in order to extract all the goodness from the meat. D. The water should be brought gradually to boiling point, then moved to the side of the fire, and left to simmer gently for some length of time. N.B.—Salt meat must be put into warm water, so as to extract a little of the salt before the pores of the skin are closed up ; if the meat were put into boiling water the pores of the skin would be closed, and the meat would be hardened by the salt not being allowed to escape. 8. When the water in the saucepan is warm, we take the beef which weighs, say, eight pounds (it will therefore take about one hour and twenty minutes), and put it in the sauce- pan; there should be only just enough water to cover the joint. 9. We let the water just boil up, and then we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for the remainder of the time. 10. As soon as the water comes to the boil we must take a large spoon and skim the water carefully. N.B.—The scum should be skimmed off directly it rises, or it will boil down again in the meat and spoil it. Scum is the impurity which rises from the meat. N.B.—We must be very careful not to let the meat boil, or it will be hardened and tough. 11. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, we take it carefully out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish for serving. We pour about a gill of the liquor (in which it was boiled) round the joint (this makes the gravy, and when the joint is cut the juices from the meat will add to it). N.B.—The liquor from boiled meat can always be used for different pur- poses, and should therefore never be thrown away, but poured into a clean basin and put aside to cool, the fat should be carefully removed from the top of the liquor, while it is cold, before being used. Salt liquor is often used for making pea soup.22 National Training School for Cookery. BAKING. Meat, Bread, Pastry, &c. Now we will show you how to bake meat. 1. We must have a good fire, and keep it up, adding by degrees small pieces of coal, as the oven is required to be very hot. N.B.—If it is a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out the damper placed over the oven in order to draw all the heat of the fire towards the oven. The ventilator of the oven should be closed. N.B.—In kitchen stoves there is usually either a handle at the top of the oven, to be pulled out for opening the ventilator, or a slide ventilator at the bottom. 2. We should test the heat of the oven by the thermometer which is fixed, in the door of the oven, the heat should rise to 240° Fahrenheit. 3. We take the joint, see that it is clean, as directed in “ Lesson on Roasting,” Note 5, and weigh it, so as to find out how long it will take to bake, as ten minutes are allowed for each pound of weight. N.B.—When we have a joint without hone we must allow about fifteen minutes to each pound of weight, as it is solid meat. 4. We take the hot water tin, on which the stand for the meat is placed, lift up the upper tin or tray and fill the under tin half full of warm water, we then fit on the upper tin. N.B.—In one corner of the upper tin is a small hole or escape for the steam. The water below must only just reach this hole, and not come into it. N.B.—The water is placed in the tin to prevent the tin and the meat from getting burnt, and so causing a disagreeable smell. 5. We place the stand on the hot water tin to raise the joint and prevent it from standing in its own dripping, which would sodden and spoil the meat. 6. We now take the joint, which weighs say seven poitpds (it will therefore take one hour and ten minutes to bake), and put it on the stand. We should dredge fiour over it. 7. We put the tin with the meat in the oven. The oven should be kept very hot for the first five minutes, in order toLessons on Cooking Meat.—Baking. 23 Now it is finished. form a brown crust on the outside of the joint, to keep in the juices of the meat. After that time the ventilator ot the oven should be opened, so as to allow the steam to escape, or the meat would get soddened. N.B.—Meat that is frozen must be gradually warmed, to thaw it before shutting it up in the hot oven, or it would be tough. 8. We must baste the joint every jifteen minutes with the drippings that run from the meat into the pan, using the dripping ladle. N. B.—Joints that are not very fat must be even more frequently basted, or they would burn : if there is not sufficient dripping from the meat, a little extra dripping should be put into the pan. N.B.—Joints that have no fat should be covered with a piece of whitey brown paper which has been spread with butter or dripping—it will prevent the meat catching too quickly. 9. We should turn the joint over occasionally, as the upper side will get browned quicker than the lower. N.B.—Potatoes, washed and peeled, or a small suet or dripping and flour pudding (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. 28), or a Yorkshire pudding (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. 29), might be baked under the meat, but they should only be put in half an hour before the meat is finished. 10. Just before we dish up the joint, we should sprinkle about a saltspoonful of Jalt over it, and then baste it well. 11. We serve the joint on a hot dish (as described in “ Lesson on Roasting,” Note 22, and act with regard to the dripping according to the “ N.B.” after Note 23.) N.B.—Pastry ox bread, &c., should not be baked in the oven at the same time as the meat, as the steam would prevent their baking properly. For baking small patties and tartlets made of Pufl Paste, the heat of the oven should rise to 300° Fahrenheit. For meat pies, tarts, &c., the heat should rise to 280°. For bread the heat should rise to 280° and must be reduced after a quarter of an hour to 2200.24 National Training School for Cookery. FRYING. And Lessons on Clarifying Butter, Fat, and Dripping. The principles of frying. 1. We must have a clear bright fire. N.B. We must be very careful it is not smoky. 2. We should be careful that the utensil used is very clean, for if there is anything sticking at the bottom of the pan, it will quickly catch or burn, and so spoil the contents. 3. We should clarify all fat (not lard), dripping, and butter, before using them, to remove the impurities from the former, and the butter-milk, and other watery sub- stance, from the latter. N.B.—Fat need not be clarified more than once. After using it we should always pour it off carefully in a basil?, and when it is cold we should remove the sediment from the bottom of the cake of fat. Butter must be clarified each time it is used, to remove all watery substances. 4. We must have the fat very hot; good frying depends on the fat being properly heated. 5. We should test the heat of the fat by a frimometer, if possible ; the heat should rise to 345 degrees Fahrenheit for ordinary frying, and 400 degrees for whitebait. N.B.—If there is no frimometer, the heat of the fat may be tested by the look—as fat gets quite still and begins to smoke when it is very hot—or by throwing in a small piece of crumb of bread, and if it fries directly a light brown, the fat is ready for use. 6. We should use a deep pan with plenty of fat, so that anything put in may be entirely covered. 7. We can fry bacon in its own fat, it only requires watching and turning till it is done (see Lesson on “ Liver and Bacon,” from Note 1 to Note 5). 8. We can fry chops or steaks, or slices of meat, in either an oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 9. We should melt the fat first, but it does not require to be heated. 10. We must be watchful, when the meat is frying, not to allow it to burn; we should turn it over occasionally. N.B.—If there is a gridiron it is much better to grill chops and steaks, as it prevents their being greasy (see Lesson on a “Grilled Steak”). For frying Fish, see " Fish,” Lessons Nos. 3, 6, 7, and 13. For frying Meat, Rissoles, Potatoes, &c., see “Cooked Meat,” Lessons Nos. 2 and 6; “ Australian Meat,” Lesson No. 8 ; “Entries,” Lessons Nos. 4 and 11: and “ Vegetables,” Lessons Nos. 3 and 4.Lessons on Frying and Clarifying Fat. 25 Now it is finished. To render down or clarify fat. 1. We take any scraps of cooked or uncooked fat, and cut them up in small pieces. 2. We put the pieces in an old but clean saucepan, and pour in just enough cold water to cover them. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire and keep it boiling; it will take about an hour, the lid should be off the saucepan. 4. We must stir the fat occasionally, to prevent it from burning or sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 5. When the water has evaporated, and the pieces of fat are cooked, we should pour the melted fat through an old sieve into a basin, and when cold it can be used for all frying purposes instead of lard. To clarify dripping. 1. We should put the dripping in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When it boils we pour it into a basin in which there should be half a pint of cold water. 3. When the dripping is cold, we take a knife and cut round the edge, so as to take out the cake of dripping. 4. We should scrape off all the sediment that will be found on the bottom of the cake, and wipe it dry with a cloth. To clarify butter. 1. We put the quantity of butter required for present use in a small saucepan, and put it on the fire and let it boil. 2. When the butter has boiled, we must take a spoon and remove the white scum from the top. 3. We should then pour the clear butter carefully into the pan for use, as Selow the butter will be a little more watery substance.26 National Training School for Cookery. COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. i. HASHED MEAT, Average cost of “Hashed Meat!' INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of scraps of cold meat and bone 2 small onions i carrot \ a turnip i bunch of herbs (consisting of i bay leaf, d. 6 i sprig of marjoram, thyme, parsley,) .. About a tablespoonful of flour i dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup .... Sippets of bread Sait and pepper | an oz. of butter i 9* Time required, about two hours; or, if the stock for the gravy is already made, then only half an hour. Now we will show you how to Hash Cold Meat. 1. We take any remains of cold meat, cut off all the meat from the bone, and cut it into thin slices. 2. We chop the hone in pieces and put them into a saucepan. 3. We take one onion, peel it and cut it in quarters. 4. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it, and cut it in quarters. 5. We take half a turnip, peel it, and cut it in half. 6. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth. 7. We take one bay leaf, one sprig of marjoram and thyme, and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 8. We put the herbs and the vegetables into the saucepan with the bones, and pour in enough cold water to cover them.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—-Hashed Meat. 27 9. We put the saucepan on the fire and when it boils we should add pepper and salt, according to taste. 10. We now put the lid on and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to stew gently for one hour, or one hour and a half; we should watch it and skim it occasionally. 11. We take a small onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 12. We put half an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 13. We put the pan on the fire, and when the butter is melted we add the sliced onion, and let it fry a nice brown. 14. We must shake the pan occasionally to prevent the slices of onion from sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. 15. When the onion is sufficiently browned, we strain off the butter and put the onion on to a plate. 16. When the bones have stewed long enough, we should strain off the liquor into a basin. 17. We wash out the saucepan and pour back the liquor. 18. We put a tablespoonfid of flour into a small basin. 19. We add a tablespoonful of the liquor to the flour and stir it into a smooth paste. 20. We stir this paste gradually into the liquor in the saucepan. 21. We also add the browned onion and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. 22. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the sauce until it boils and thickens. 23. We let it boil for two or three minutes, until the flour is cooked. N.B.—We should be careful to stir the sauce smoothly while it boils, or it will be lumpy. 24. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and when it is off the boil we lay in the pieces of meat to warm through. N.B.—We must not let the sauce boil while the meat is in it, or the meat will get hard and tough. 25. We cut a thin slice of bread, and cut it into square pieces.Now it is fmished. 28 National Training School for Cookery. 26. We cut these square pieces in half, cornerwise, mak- ing the pieces into triangles. 27. We put one ounce of clarified dripping (see Lesson on “ Frying”) in a frying pan to melt. 28. When the dripping is quite hot we put in the sippets of bread, and let them fry a light brown. 29. We should turn them, so that they get browned on each side. 30. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate, and when the sippets are fried we turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—If liked, the bread could be toasted before the fire instead of fried ; in which case the bread should be cut into sippets after it is toasted. 31* For serving, we put the slices of meat on a hot dish, in the centre, strain the sauce over them and put the sippets of bread round the edge of the dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Meat Fritters. 29 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 2. MEAT FRITTERS. Average cost of “ Meat Fritters. INGREDIENTS Slices of cold meat 6 6 oz. of flour i 1 tablespoonful of salad oil 1 Salt j 2 eggs * 2 Dripping for frying - / io Time required, about half an hour {and one hour for the batter to rise). Now we will show you how to make Meat Fritters, i.e. frying meat in batter. 1. We put six ounces of flour and half a saltspoonful of salt into a basin. 2. We add a tablespoonful of salad oil and mix the flow into a smooth paste. N.B.—We must be careful that the oil is quite sweet. If oil is objected to, one ounce of melted butter can be used instead. 3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees, half a pint of tepid water; we must be careful that there are no lumps. 4. We break two eggs, put the whites on a plate (the yolks we should put in a cup, as they will not be required for present use). 5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the whites of the eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth with a knife. 6. We stir the whipped whites of the eggs lightly into the batter. N. B.— In winter, clean snow might be used in the batter instead of the whites of eggs. N.B.—This batter might be made without the whites of eggs, in which case it should be mixed with half a pint of beer, instead of the water, but the batter made with beer will not rise as much as when eggs are used. N.B.—The beer will not taste after the batter is fried.30 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 7. We stand the batter aside for one hour to rise, or until required for frying, but it should not stand longer than two hours. 8. We put half a pound of clarified dripping (see Lesson on “ Frying ”) into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 9. We take some cold meat, and cut it up into thin slices. N.B.—Cold boiled, or roast pork, or boiled bacon is very nice fried in batter. 10. When the batter has risen and the fritters are re- quired for use, we stir the batter lightly with a spoon, so as to be sure that there are no lumps settled at the bottom. 11. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking, we take the slices of meat, dip them in the batter so that they are quite covered, and then drop them into the hot fat. N.B.—We must not put in too many slices at a time, as they should not touch each other. 12. We must turn them over so that they are fried a nice brown on both sides. 13. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate. 14. As the fritters are fried, we take them carefully out of the fat with aperforated spoon, and put them on the paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—We must be careful to skim the fat from time to time, or the little loose pieces of batter will burn and spoil the fat. N.B.—Slices of apple or orange can be fried in this batter in the same way, only that the batter should be sweetened, and sugar sprinkled over the fritters when they are fried. N.B.—Fish can be fried in batter the same way, only that the batter is usually made with beer instead of white of egg. 15. For serving, we turn the fritters on to a hot dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Goblet Pie. 31 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 3. GOBLET PIE. Average cost of a “ Goblet.Pie!' INGREDIENTS. Any scraps of cold meat 2 tablespoonsful of chopped suet 2 do. of moist sugar 2 do. of currants 2 do. of plums 2 do. of chopped apples £ lb. of flour i 5 of a teaspoonful of baking-powder j 1 oz. of dripping 4l Time required, about thre>'-quarters of an hour. d. 4 ! I i h I h Now we will show you how to make a " Goblet Pie!' N.B.—This pie is made with equal quantities of ingredients. 1. We take any scraps of cold meat (the smallest scraps would do that would not do for anything else), put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible (there should be about two tablespoonsful of chopped meat). 2. We take about two ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin, and chop it up very finely (there should be about two tablespoonsful). 3. We take two small apples, peel them, cut out the core, and chop them up finely (there should be about two table- spoonsful). 4. We take two tablespoonsfitl of plums, stone them, and chop them up in small pieces. 5. We take two tablespoonsful of currants, wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over. 6. We put all these ingredients into a basin with two tablespoons fid of moist sugar, and mix them all well together with a spoon. 7. We then turn the mixture into a small pie dish.32 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 8. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it a few grains of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder. 9. We take one ounce of clarified dripping and rub it well and lightly into the flour with our hands, until it resembles sifted bread crumbs. 10. We now add to it sufficient water to mix it into a stiff paste. 11. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 12. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 13. We wet the edge of the pie dish with water. 14. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut a strip of the haste, the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. 15. We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge of the paste, leaving the centre piece rather larger than the top of the pie dish. 16. We wet the edge of the paste with water. 17. We take the remaining piece of paste, and place it over the pie dish, pressing the edges together with our thumb. N.B.—We must be very careful not to break the paste. 18. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and trim off all the rough edges of the paste, round the edge of the dish. 19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 20. We make a little hole with the knife, in the centre of the pie to let the steam out while the pie is baking. 21. We put the pie into the oven (the heat should rise to 220°), to bake for half an hour.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Curry. 33 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 4. CURRY. Average cost of a “ Curry ” (made with cold meat). INGREDIENTS. d. Scraps of cold meat 6 2 oz. of clarified dripping i (or butter 2d.) 1 apple I 1 onion \ 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder 1 Salt / 1 9 Time required, about three quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 1. We put two ottnees of clarified dripping or butter into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 2. We take one onion, peel it, put it on a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. 3. When the dripping is quite hot we put in the chopped onion to brown ; we must be careful it does not burn. 4. We should shake the saucepan occasionally to prevent the onion from sticking to the bottom. 5. We take the cold meat and cut it up into small pieces. 6. We take one small apple, peel it, take out the core, and chop it up very finely on a board. 7. When the onion is sufficiently brown we should strain it off, and pour the dripping back into the saucepan. N. B.—We should put the browned onion on a plate. 8. We now put the pieces of cold meat into the saucepan, and let them brown on both sides. 9. We add one dessertspoonful of curry powder, the chopped apple, and a little salt, according to taste.Now it is finished. 34 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We now pour in half a pint of cold water, and put back the browned onion. N.B.—If the onion had been left in while the meat was browning, it would have got burnt. 11. We should stir smoothly and carefully until it boils, and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour. 12. The lid should be off the saucepan as the sauce is to reduce. 13. For serving we take the meat out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish and pour the sauce over it. N.B.—Boiled rice should be served with the curry (see Lesson on " Rice”).Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Shepherd's Pie, 35 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 5. SHEPHERD’S PIE. Average cost of a “ Shepherd's Pie!' INGREDIENTS. Scraps of cold meat 6 1 small onion ., Pepper and salt i| lb. of potatoes 1 oz. of butter. | a gill of milk x 9t Time required, about an hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Shepherd's Pie. 1. We take one and a half pound of potatoes, wash them, and boil them as described (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1.) N.B.—This quantity of potato will cover a quart pie dish. N.B.—Any remains of cold potatoes should be used instead of boiling fresh 2. We put one ounce of butter and half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We put the boiled potatoes into another saucepan, and mash them up with a fork or spoon. 4. When the milk boils we pour it into the mashed potatoes, and stir them into a smooth paste. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the potatoes just boil; we must be careful they do not burn. 6. We take any scraps of cold meat, cut them in small pieces, and put them in a pie dish in layers. 7. If there is not much fat with the meat, we should mix a few slices of pork fat with the meat. 8. We take one small onion, peel it, and chop it up as finely as possible on a board. ones.36 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We sprinkle each layer of meat with plenty of pepper and salt, and a little of the chopped onion. 10. We fill the dish half full of cold water. N.B.—If there is any cold gravy it would, of course, be better than the water. N.B.—The pie dish should be quite full of meat, and rather heaped in the centre, so as to raise the crust of potato. 11. We take the mashed potato and put it over the top of the meaty smoothing it over neatly with a knife. 12. We take a fork, and mark all over the top of the potato. N.B.—If liked, the mashed potato might be mixed with half its weight of flour into a dough, to make a more substantial crust; it must be then rolled out with a rolling-pin like pastry. 13. We put the pie dish into the oven, or into a Dutch oven in front of the fire, for half an hoary to brown the crust of potato and warm the meat through.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Fried Rissoles. 37 COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 6. FRIED RISSOLES. Average cost of “ Fried Rissoles ” made of cold meat (This quantity makes about 8.) INGREDIENTS. d. Scraps of cold meat, 2 oz 1 2 tablespoonsful of chopped suet 1 2 do. of bread crumbs J 2 do. of chopped parsley \ 1 tablespoonful of chopped herbs, marjoram i 1 and thyme j 2 2 eggs 2 Crumb of bread 1 Salt and pepper / 1 Use of dripping for frying 6k Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Rissoles with cold meat. 1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to heat. 2. We take some scraps of cold meat, and chop it up as finely as possible on a board, when chopped there should be about two tablespoonsful. 3. We take two ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin and chop it up as finely as possible. There should be two tablespoonsfid. 4. We take a grater and grate some crumbs of bread on to a piece of paper. N.B.—More than two tablespoo?isful of bread crumbs will be required, as the rissoles should be dipped in bread crumbs before they are fried. 5. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash it and dry it in a cloth. 6. We put the parsley on a board and chop it up finely ; there should be two tablespoonsful. 7. We take a sprig of marjoram and a sprig of thyme,38 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. take away the stalks and rub the leaves through a strainer, or chop them up finely on a board. N.B.—The stalks of the herbs are bitter to taste, and can therefore only be used for flavouring and not for eating. 8. We put the meat, suet, and two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs into a basin and mix them together. 9. We now add the herbs and a teaspoonful of salt. N.B.—If liked, a little chopped onion or chopped lemon peel might be added. 10. We break one egg into the basin and mix all together lightly. 11. We take a board, flour it, and turn the mixture on to it. 12. We also flour our hands, to prevent the mixture from sticking. 13. We form the mixture into little balls, and we should sprinkle a little flour over them. 14. We break an egg on to a plate, and beat it very slightly with a knife. 15. We put the balls into the egg and egg them well all over. 16. We now put them into the bread crumbs and cover them well, but not too thickly. N.B.—We must be careful to finger them as little as pc:sible. 17. We put the rissoles into a frying basket, a few at a time, as they must not touch each other. 18. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and smoking, we put in the frying basket and let the rissoles fry a pale brown. 19. If there is not sufficient fat to cover the rissoles, we must shake the basket occasionally, that they may get fried on all sides alike. N.B.—If there is no frying-basket, we should carefully put the rissoles into the fat with a spoon, and then we must turn them over, so as to get them equally browned. 20. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate. 21. When the rissoles are fried, we turn them carefully on* to the paper to drain off the grease. 22. For serving, we put them on a hot dish.Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat.—Minced Meat. 39 Now it is finished. COOKED MEAT. Lesson No. 7. MINCED MEAT. Average cost of “ Minced Meat ” with rice or potatoes. INGREDIENTS. ct% Scraps of cold meat 3 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ) Pepper and salt j | lb. of Patna rice or 1 lb. of potatoes ij H Time required to cook the potatoes, half an hour; to cook the mince, five minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Mince of cold meat. 1. If the mince is served with rice (see Lesson on “ Rice ”), or if with mashed potatoes (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2). 2. We put any scraps of cold meat on a board, and mince it up with a sharp knife. 3. We put the minced meat into a saucepan with about a tablespooiiful (or enough to moisten the mince) of mush- room ketchup, or some gravy, and season it with pepper and salt to taste. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire to let the mince just warm through. 5. We should stir it occasionally, to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 6. For serving we turn the mince on to a hot dish, with a border of boiled rice or mashed potato.40 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. i. MULLIGATAWNY Average cost of “ Mulligatawny Soup ” (3 quarts) made from “ Australian Meat.” INGREDIENTS. j. d. 2 lb. tin of Australian calf’s head i o 2 lbs. of Australian mutton I 2 2 apples o 1 2 leeks o 1 2 carrots, 1 turnip o 1^ 2 good-sized onions o 1 2 tablespoonsful of flour 1 1 tablespoonful of curry powder > o 1 Salt and sugar ) A bouquet garni (of parsley, thyme, mar- joram and 2 bay leaves) 2 8h Time required, three hours. Now we will show you how to make Mulligatawny Soup. 1. We take a tin of Australian mutton and open it care- fully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove all the fat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should only be removed from that part of the meat which is required for immediate use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified, by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 3. We take two pounds of the mutton out of the tin, put it in a basin with two quarts of warm water. 4. We take two apples, peel them, and put them on a plate. 5. We cut the apples in quarters, cut out the core, and then cut the quarters into slices, and put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of the clarified fat. 6. We take one turnip and two good-sized onions, peel them, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and give one stir to the vegetables with a wooden spoon.Lessons 071 Australian Meat.—Mulligatawny. 41 Now it is finished. 8. We take two leeks, wash them well in cold water, and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 9. We cut the leeks up and put them in the saucepan, 10. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them with a knife, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 11. We give one stir with a wooden spoon to mix the vegetables together, and let them fry for ten minutes. 12. We also add a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram and tzvo bay-leaves, tied tightly together with a piece of string. 13. When the vegetables have fried for ten minutes we take half a pint of the liquor (in which the meat is soaking), pour it into the saucepan, and let it boil and reduce to a quarter of a pint. 14. We should stir the vegetables occasionally. 15. We put two tablespoonsful of flour and one tablespoon- ful of curry powder into a basin, and mix them into a smooth paste with one gill (quarter of a pint) of the liquor. 16. We stir this mixture into the saucepan with the vegetables. 17. We now put the meat and the remaining liquor into the saucepan, put the lid on and let it come to the boil. 18. When it boils we should put one saltspoonftd of salt and half a saltspoonfid of moist sugar into the saucepan. 19. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for two hours and a half. 20. We should watch it, and skim it occasionally with a spoon. 21. After that time we strain off the soup through a strainer into a basin. 22. We pour the soup back into the saucepan. 23. We open the two pound tin of calf's head’ remove all the fat from the top, and stir the contents of the tin into the soup in the saucepan. 24. For serving we pour the soup into a hot soup-tureen.42 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 2. BROWN PUREE. Average cost of “ Brown Puree” (1 pint and a half) made from u Australian Mince Meat1' INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of Australian mince meat 2 carrots and i small turnip 2 leeks 2 sticks of celery 1 onion, stuck with 4 cloves A bouquet garni (of 2 bay leaves, thyme, and marjoram) .. A sprig of parsley 1 teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract d. k 1 1 o 1 o 1 Time required, abotit two hours. 1 o| Now we will show you how to make a Brown Puree. 1. We take a tin of Australian mince meat and open it carefully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should only be removed from that part of the meat which is required for immediate use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 3. We take out one pottnd of meat, scrape off the jelly (which we put aside), and put the meat in a mortar. 4. We pound the meat well with a pestle. 5. We put two quarts of water into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 6. We take two carrots, wash them, and scrape them with a knife. 7. We take two leeks, cut off the outside green leaves,Lessons on Australian Meat.—Brown Puree. 43 Now it is finished. wash them thoroughly in cold water, and cut them in quarters. 8. We take two sticks of celery, wash them, and scrape them clean with a knife. 9. We tie these vegetables into a small bundle with string. 10. We take one small turnip and peel it. 11. We take an onion, peel it, and stick four cloves in it. 12. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in all these vegetables. 13. We also add a bouquet garni, consisting of two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, tied tightly together. 14. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in cold water, wring it in a cloth, and put it in the saucepan. 15. We take the jelly which came from the meat, and a little more out of the tin, and put it in the saucepan. 16. We also stir in one teaspoonful of Liebig's Extract, or ten or twelve drops of caramel (see note below) for colouring. 17. We let the vegetables boil gently for one hour and a half. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 18. After that time we stir in the pounded meat, and season according to taste. 19. We take a cullender and strain the puree through on to a hot dish. N.B.—For making caramel (browned sugar) for colouring gravies, &c. We put a quarter of a pound of moist or loaf sugar into an old saucepan, and put it on the fire and let it burn until it has become quite a dark brown liquid ; we add to it half a pint of boiling water and let it boil for five minutes, stirring it occasionally ; we then strain it, and pour it in a bottle, and it is ready for use at any time.44 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 3. IRISH STEW. Average cost of “Irish Stew,” made from Australian Meat. INGREDIENTS. 13 lb. of Australian meat io| 1 h lb. of potatoes i| 2 lb. of onions i Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make an Irish Stew. 1. We wash one and a half pound of potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. N.B.—If the -potatoes are not very good, or are in any way diseased, we should take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes or any black specks about the potatoes, but it is much better to steam or boil them in their skins. 2. We take a potato steamer, fill the saucepan with hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take half a pound of onions and peel them. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put the potatoes in the steamer, and sprinkle them over with salt. N.B.—As the onions are to be eaten with the potatoes, we put them in the saucepan of boiling water, and they can be boiled while the potatoes are being steamed. 5. We place the steamer on the saucepan of boiling water, and cover it down tight to keep the steam in. 6. We let the potatoes steam, and the onions boil for half an hour. 7. We take a tin of Australian meat and open it carefully. 8. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should be clarified, by putting into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Irish Stew. 45 Now it is finished. 9. We take one and a half pounds of meat out of the tin and cut it in slices. 10. We should take a fork and put it in the potatoes and the onions to feel if they are quite tender. 11. When they are sufficiently cooked, we take the potatoes out of the steamer, put them on a board, peel them carefully, and cut them in slices. 12. We take the onions out of the saucepan, put them on a board, and cut them in slices. 13. We take a large saucepan, put in a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions, and then a layer of meat. 14. We should sprinkle a little pepper and salt over each layer of meat for seasoning. 15. We pour half a pint of warm water into the saucepan, put it on the fire, and let the meat and vegetables simmer until they are thoroughly warmed through. 16. For serving we turn the Irish Stew out on to a hot dish.46 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 4. SAUSAGE ROLLS. Average cost of “ Sausage Rolls ” (about two dozen) made from “ Australian Mince Meat!' INGREDIENTS. d. % lb. of mince meat 3^ 1 lb. of flour 2-\. \ lb. of dripping 4 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 1 Seasoning 1 | 4 sage leaves i 1 egg 1 11 Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 1. We take a tin of Australian mince meat and open it carefully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into a basin of boiling tvater, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 3. We take half a pound of the mince meat out of the tin, put it in a basin, and season it well with pepper and salt. 4. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 5. We mix the chopped sage well into the mince meat with a spoon. 6. We put one pound of flour into another basin. 7. We add to it one teaspoonful of baking powder, salt (as much as would cover a threepenny piece), and half a pound of clarified dripping. 8. We rub the dripping well into the four with our hands. N.B.—We must mix it thoroughly, and be careful not to leave any lumps.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Saits age Rolls. 47 Now it is finished. 9. We add enough water to the flour to make it into a stiff paste. 10. We flour the paste board. 11. We turn the paste out on the board. N.B.—We should divide the paste in two, so as not to handle it too much. 12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each portion into a thin sheet, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We cut the paste into pieces about six inches square. 14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and cut them into squares. N.B.—There should be about two dozen squares of paste. 15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince meat into the centre of each square of paste. 16. We fold the paste round the meat, joining it smoothly down the centre, and pressing the ends of the paste together with our finger and thumb. 17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the sausage rolls on it. 18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly with a knife. 19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg, and paint over the tops of the rolls. 20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake for 15 minutes. N.B.—We should look at them once or twice, and turn them if necessary, so that they shall be equally baked. 21. For serving we take the rolls off the tin and place them on a hot dish.48 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 5. CURRIED RABBIT. Average cost of “ Curried Australian Rabbit'd INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lb. tin of Australian rabbit i o 2 oz. of butter or dripping o i 2 moderate sized onions o i 1 good sized apple o o£ 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder ) Salt and flour / ° 1 Patna rice served with the curry o i 5 Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Curry of Austra- lian Rabbit. 1. We take a two pound tin of rabbit and open it carefully. N.B.—Any other meat could be used for the curry instead of the rabbit. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove all thefat from the top of the meat. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into a basin of boiling water; and when cold can be used as dripping. 3. We put two ounces of butter or clarified dripping into a stewpan. N.B.—If the fat from the rabbit has been clarified in time, it can be used instead of the butter or dripping. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire to heat the fat. 5. We take two moderate sized onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. 6. When the fat is quite hot, we put in the onions to fry brown. N.B.—We must watch it, and stir the onions occasionally, and not let them burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. 7. We turn the rabbit out of the tin on to a plate. 8. We take a good sized apple, peel it, take out the core, and chop it up as finely as possible.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Curried Rabbit. 49 9. When the onions are sufficiently browned we take all the pieces carefully out of the stewpan with a perforated spoon, and put them on a plate. 10. We take the pieces of rabbit, dry them in a cloth, and sprinkle them over well with flour. 11. We now put the pieces of rabbit into the stewpan to fry a nice brown. 12. We must turn the pieces occasionally so as to let them brown on both sides alike. 13. We put a dessertspoonful of curry powder into a cup, and mix it into a smooth paste with a little cold water. 14. When the rabbit is browned, we put the chopped apple and the fried onion into the stewpan. 15. We stir in smoothly the curry paste, and then add half a pint of cold water or stock, and salt according to taste. 16. We give one stir with a spoon and mix it all together. 17. We now put the lid on the stewpan, draw it rather to the side of the fire, and let it stew very gently for about a quarter of an hour, until the apple is quite tender. 18. We must boil the rice as directed. (See Lesson on “ Rice.”) 19. For serving, we turn the curry on to a hot dish, the rice can be put as a border on the same dish as the cvt,rry> or served on a separate dish. Now it is finished. D50 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 6. MEAT PIE. Average cost of a “ Meat Pie ” (a quart dish) made from Australian mutton or beef and kidneys. INGREDIENTS. d. i§ lb. of Australian mutton or beef o ioj b lb. Do. kidneys. o 35 § lb. of flour o if 3 lb. of dripping o 2 1 teaspoonful of baking powder I , pepper and salt ) + 1 6 Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 1. We take a tin of Australian mutton or beef and open it carefully. 2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from the part of the meat which is required for use. N.B.—All the fat should not be removed, as the meat not required for imme- diate use will keep better with the fat on the top ; but a tin of Austra- lian meat will not keep more than two or three days after it has once been opened. 3. We take a tin oi kidneys, open it carefully and remove the fat from the part of the meat which is required for use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified, by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping. 4. We take one and a half pound of the meat {mutton or beef) out of the tin and cut it neatly into nice sized pieces, and season the pieces with pepper and salt. 5. We take half a pound of the kidneys and cut them up in pieces. 6. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin with a small teaspoonfid of baking powder and salt (to cover thinly a threepenny piece). 7. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps.Lessons on A ustralian Meat.—Meat Pie. 51 8. We add sufficient water to make it into a stiff paste; it will take rather less than one gill (quarter of a pint). 9. We take a board, flour it, and put the paste on it. 10. We take a quart pie-dish and fill it with the pieces of meat and kidney. 11. We take a little of the jelly out of the tin and put it in the dish with the meat, to make the gravy. 12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the shape of the top of the pie-dish, only rather larger. N.B.—We should keep our hands floured, to prevent the paste sticking. 13. We take a knife, dip it in the Jlour, and cut off a strip of the paste about one inch wide. N.B.—This strip should be cut off from round the edge of the paste, leaving the centre piece the size of the top of the pie-dish. 14. We wet the edge of the pie-dish with zvater, and place the strip of paste round the edge. 15. We now wet the strip of paste on the pie-dish 16. We take the piece of paste, lay it over the top of the pie-dish, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 17. We take a knife, flour it, and trim off the rough edges of the paste. 18. We take the knife, and with the back of the blade, we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing it with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 19. We should make a small hole in the centre of the paste, to let out the steam, whilst it is baking. 20. We can ornament the top of the pie with the remains of the paste, according to taste. 21. We put the pie into a quick oven to bake for half an hour. 22. We must look at it occasionally, to see that it does not burn. Now it is finished. D 252 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 7. FRICASSEE OF MUTTON. Average cost of “ Fricassee of Mutton” made from Aus- tralian meat. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of Australian mutton 2 oz. of butter i| oz. of flour Pepper and salt 1 doz. mushrooms Bread About 1 pint of milk s. d. 1 2 o 2 o o| o o o 2 1 11 lime required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Fricassee of Mutton. 1. We put two ounces of butter into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 2. When the butter is melted, we stir in one and a half ounce of flour, and a little pepper and salt according to taste. 3. We now pour in three quarters of a pint of cold milk, and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon, until it boils and thickens. 4. We take one dozen of mushrooms, peel them, and cut off the end of the stalks. 5. We add these mushrooms tc the sauce and let them stew gently, until they are quite tender. 6. We take the peel and stalks of the mushrooms, wash them in cold water and put them in a small saucepan, with about a gill of milk. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it stew gently, to extract the flavour of the mushrooms. 8. We take a two pound tin of mutton, open it carefully, and remove all the fat from the top of the meat with a spoon. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water, and when cold can then be used as dripping.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Fricassee. 53 Now it is finished. 9. We turn the meat out of the tin and cut it in small pieces. 10. We cut a thin slice of crumb of bread, put it on a board, and cut it up in small square pieces. 11. We cut these square pieces in half, cornerwise, mak- ing them into triangles. 12. We put three ounces of clarified dripping into a frying pan and put it on the fire to heat the fat. 13. We take a piece of kitchen paper and put it on a plate. 14. When the fat is quite hot and smoking, we throw in the sippets of bread and let them fry a pale brown. 15. We then take them out of the frying pan, and put them on the piece of paper to drain off the grease. 16. We sprinkle a little salt over the sippets, and keep them warm till required for use. 17. When the mushrooms are sufficiently cooked, we should strain the milk (in which the mushroom peelings were stewed) and stir it smoothly into the sauce. 18. We draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and when the sauce is a little cooled, we put in the slices of mutton and let them just warm through. N.B.—We must be careful that the meat does not boil, or it will be hardened. 19. We now take out the pieces of meat and put them on a hot dish. 20. We pour the sauce over the meat, and arrange the mushrooms in the centre. 21. We place the fried sippets of bread round the edge of the dish.54 National Training School for Cookery. AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson Ino. 3. RISSOLES. Average cost of “ Rissoles,” made from Australian meat. INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of Australian meat ... \ lb. of flour i| 4 oz. of dripping 2 Salt and pepper ) x A few sprigs of dried herbs ) 2 1 egg 1 2 oz. of vermicelli or some bread crumbs .... 1 k Clarified dripping (for frying) ) 2 ft Time required, one hour. Now we will show you how to make Rissoles of Australian meat. 1. We put one pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to heat. N. B.—We must watch it and be careful it does not bum. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with salt (to cover thinly a threepenny piece), and four ounces of clarified dripping. 3. We rub the dripping well into theflour with our hands, until it is quite a powder. 4. We then add a little cold water and mix it into a stiff paste. 5. We flour a board and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We take a tin of Australian meat, open it carefully, and with a spoon remove all the fat off the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—The fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water; and when cold can then be used for dripping. 7. We take half a pound of meat out of the tin and scrape off as much of the jelly as possible.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Rissoles. 55 8. We put the meat on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. N.B.—Minced meat might be used, which would not of course require chopping up. 9. We take a small bunch of dried herbs and rub the leaves into a powder. N.B.—The stalks of the herbs need not be thrown away, as they can be used in soups for flavouring. 10. We sprinkle the herbs over the meat, also a little pepper and salt, and a little flour. 11. We take a rolling pin and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 12. We cut the paste into rounds with a cutter (which should be dipped in flour); the rounds should be rather larger than the top of a tea-cup. 13. We put some meat into the centre of each round of paste. 14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up slightly with a knife. 15. We take a paste-brush, dip it in the egg, and just wet the edges of the paste with the egg. 16. We fold the paste carefully over the meat, pressing the edges together with our thumbs. 17. We take two ounces of vermicelli and rub it between our hands, crushing it up as finely as possible. 18. We put this crushed vermicelli on to a piece of paper. 19. We put the rissoles into the plate of egg, and egg them well all over with the brush. 20. We then turn them into the crushed vermicelli, and cover them well with it but not too thickly. N.B.—We must be careful to finger them as little as possible, so as not to rub off any of the egg or vermicelli, or the rissoles will burst while frying. N.B.—Bread crumbs might be used instead of vermicelli. 21. We take a frying basket and put in the rissoles; we must be careful that they do not touch each other. 22. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and56 National Training School for Cookery. Now it ,is finished. smoking, we put in the frying-basket and let the rissoles fry for a minute or two until they have become a pale brown. 23. We take a piece of kitchen paper and put it on a plate.. 24. As the rissoles are fried we turn them from the fry- ing-basket on to the piece of paper to drain off the grease. 25. We then put them on a hot dish and they are ready for serving.Lessons on Australian Meat.—Savoury Hash. 57 AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. 9. SAVOURY HASH. Average cost of a “Savoury Hash” made from Aus- tralian Mutton. INGREDIENTS. s. d. lb. of Australian mutton o io| 1 oz. of butter o i | oz. of flour \ J an onion I \d. of mixed pickles, or i teaspoonful of i vinegar ) 1 dessertspoonful of chopped herbs ) , Pepper and salt / ° °* 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup .... o > oj X x| Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Hash. 1. We put one ounce of bittter into a saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We take half an onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 3. We put the onion into the butter. 4. We also stir in half an ounce of flour, and let all fry for a minute or two to brown. 5. We take a tin of Australian mutton, open it carefully, and remove the fat from the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—We should clarify the fat by putting it into boiling water, and when it is cold it can be used as dripping. 6. We take one and a half pound of the mutton out of the tin. 7. If all the meat is required for present use, we should turn it all out of the tin, and we should then rinse out the tin with half a pint of warm water to make the gravy for the hash. N.B.—If all the meat has not been taken out of the tin, we should take some of the jelly out of the tin, and melt it in half a pint of warm water to make the gravy.5 8 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 8. We pour this gravy into the saucepan with the flour and butter, and stir well until it boils and thickens. 9. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm. 10. We take a halfpenny worth of mixed pickles, and chop them up finely. 11. We stir the chopped pickles or a teaspoonful of vinegar into the sauce. N.B.—If the flavour of the pickles or the vinegar is disliked, they might be omitted. 12. We take a sprig or two of parsley (wash it and dry it in a cloth), and a sprig of marjoram and thyme, take away the stalks, and chop up the leaves finely on a board. (There should be about a dessertspoonful.) 13. We cut the meat up into neat pieces, and sprinkle over each piece some of the chopped herbs and a little pepper and salt. 14. We put the meat into the saucepan of sauce and let it just warm through for about five minutes. 15. We now pour into the sauce a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketclmp. 16. For serving we put the meat on a hot dish and strain the sauce over it.Lessons 07i Australian Meat.—Mince. 59 AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Lesson No. io. MINCE. Average cost of “Mince” served with “Mashed Potatoes.” INGREDIENTS. d. i lb. of Australian mince meat .• 6 It lb. of potatoes i| i oz. of butter i i gill of milk § i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup Salt and pepper Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Mince served with Mashed Potatoes. 1. We take one and a half pound of potatoes, wash them well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about the potato. 3. We put them into a saucepan with cold water, enough to cover them, and sprinkle over them one teaspoonful of salt. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil the potatoes for from twenty minutes to half an hour. 5. We should take a fork and put it into the potatoes to feel if the centre is quite tender. 6. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the water, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to steam the potatoes. 7. We put 07ie ounce of butter and one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk into a small saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 8. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we should take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table.6o National Training School for Cookery\ Now it is finished. 9. We should mash them up smoothly with a spoon or fork. N.B.—The best way to mash potatoes is to rub them through a wire sieve ; we can then be sure there are no lumps left. 10. When the milk boils we should pour it into the mashed potatoes, and stir it till it is quite smooth. 11. We add pepper and salt according to taste. 12. We stand the saucepan of mashed potatoes by the side of the fire to keep warm until required for use. 13. We take a tin of Australian mince meat, open it care- fully, and remove all the fat from the part of the meat required for immediate use. N.B.—This fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water, and when cold it can be used as dripping. 14. We take one pound of the mince out of the tin, put it in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and stir it into a paste. 15. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the mince just warm through. N.B.—~We should be very careful that it does not boil, or the meat will get hardened. 16. For serving we make a wall of the mashed potatoes round the edge of a hot dish, and we pour the mince in the centre; we should stand the dish in front of the fire to colour the potato a pale brown.Cooking Meat.—{Entries.)—Indian Curry. 61 ENTREES. Lesson No. i. CURRY. Average cost of a “ Curry {Indian) of Rabbit? &c. INGREDIENTS. x rabbit or chicken, etc Half an ounce of coriander seed 2 cloves of garlic 1 dessertspoonful of turmerick 8 berries of red pepper 2 inches of the stick of cinnamon 6 cardamomums A small piece of green ginger, about the size of a nut . 5 small onions Salt 3 ounces of fresh butter Half a pint of cream or good milk The juice of half a lemon 4 Q Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 1. We take a rabbit [which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking] and put it on a board. 2. We cut it up in the same way as for carving, thus :— taking care that the pieces are nearly all of one size. N.B.—Chicken, veal, and other meats would serve the purpose for curry as well as rabbit. 3. We take a quarter of an ounce of coriander seed, put it into the mortar and pound it very finely with a pestle. 4. We take the pounded seed out of the mortar and put it on a piece of paper; we must scrape out the mortar cleanly so that none be lost. 5. We take two cloves of garlic, peel them with a sharp knife and place them in the mortar. 6. We also put into the mortar a dessertspoonful of tur merick. s. d. 2 6 o 6 | O 2 o 3| .. i o , . O I62 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We add eight berries of red pepper and one inch of the stick of cinnamon. 8. We put in four cardamomums. 9. We take a piece of green ginger about the size of a nut and slice it very thinly. 10. We take three small onions and peel off the two outer skins. 11. We divide the onions into quarters and place them and the sliced ginger in the mortar. 12. We must now pound up all these spices and the onions as finely as possible with the pestle. 13. We now add to them the pounded coriander seed and mix them all up together. 14. We turn all this pounded mixture out of the mortar into a half-pint basin. 16. We take a teacupful of cold water and rinse out the mortar, and then pour the water on to the pounded mixture in the basin. 16. We take the pieces of rabbit and wash them in cold water. 17. We take the pieces of rabbit out of the cold water and place them on a sieve to drain. 18. We take a stew-pan and put in it three ounces of fresh butter. 19. We put the stew-pan on the fire to melt the butter. N.B.—We must be careful that it does not burn. 20. We take two small onions and peel off the two outer skins. 21. We divide the onions in half down the centre, and cut them up so that the slices are in half circles. 22. We put these sliced onions into the melted butter, we add also two cardamomums and let them fry a pale brown. 23. We then take the onions carefully out of the stew- pan with a slice, and place them on a piece of whitey-brown paper to drain off the grease.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Indian Curry. 63 24. We now take the basin of spices, and add as much cold water as will make the basin three parts full. 25. We add to the basin of spices a small dessertspoon- fid of salt. 26. We now pour all the contents of the basin into the melted butter in the stew-pan, to cook for about twenty minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon. N.B.—To test when the spices are sufficiently cooked, you should smed them, and if they are quite done, no particular spice should predo- minate. 27. We now place the pieces of rabbit in the stew-pan to brown. 28. We must turn the pieces of rabbit occasionally so that they get brown on all sides. 29. We now pour into the stew-pan a teacupful of cold water to make the meat tender. 30. We put the lid on the stew-pan, and let it all cook steadily for about an hour. 31. We must watch it carefully, and stir it perpetually. N.B.—A good deal of stirring is required. 32. We must add by degrees a teacupful of cold water, to wash down the bits of spice which will stick to the sides of the stew-pan. 33. We must also add by degrees, half a pint of cream, or good milk [water might even be used instead] and mix it well together with a wooden spoon. N.B.—We must be careful that no pieces of meat or spices stick to the bottom of the pan. 34. We now take half the fried onions, chop them up finely, and add them to the curry. 35. We then put into the mortar five coriander seeds, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and pound them well together with a pestle. 36. When the rabbit is quite done, we take the pieces out with a fork, arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and pour the gravy round. 37. We then sprinkle over the rabbit the remainder ofNow it is finished. 64 National Training School for Cookay. the fried onions, and the pounded cinnamon and coriander seed. 38. We take a fresh lemon, cut it in half, and squeeze all the juice of it through a strainer over the rabbit.' M.B.—Boiled Patna rice should be served with the above curry.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Quenelles of Veal. 65 ENTREES. Lesson No. 2. QUENELLES OF VEAL Average cost of “ Quenelles of Veal (about 12) and the Sauce INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of the fillet of veal i 3 2 oz. of butter o 2 2| oz. of flour o of | pint of 2nd white stock o 3 2 eggs o 2 1 dozen button mushrooms o 6 1 gill of cream o 6 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Quenelles of Veal. 1. We put one ounce of butter and two ounces of flour into a stew-pan and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 2. We add one gill (quarter of a pint) of second white stock. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir well until it boils and thickens, and leaves the sides of the stewpan. 4. We now pour this mixture or panada (as it is called) on to a plate. 5. We stand the plate aside to cool. 6. We take one pound of the fillet of v^al and put it on a board. 7. We take a sharp knife, cut away all the skin and fat, and cut up the meat into small pieces. 8. We put these pieces of veal into a mortar, and pound them well with the pestle. 9. We place a wire sieve over the plate; we take this66 National Training School for Cookery. * pounded meat and pass it through the sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. 10. When the panada on the plate is cold, we put half of it and one egg in the mortar and pound it to a cream. 11. We then add half the meat, and salt and pepper to taste, and pound all well together with the pestle. 12. We put into the mortar the remainder of the panada, and break in another egg and add the rest of the meat. 13. We pound these well together again with the pestle. 14. We turn the mixture from the mortar into a basin. 16. We take a saute-pan and butter it inside. 16. We take a dessertspoon and fill it with the mixture, shaping it to the form of an oval with a knife, which we must dip occasionally into hot water to prevent the mixture from sticking. We take another dessertspoon and dip it into boiling water. 18. We scoop the quenelle from the first spoon into the second spoon, and put it into the saute-pan, and continue doing this till we have used up all the mixture. 19. We must now make the sauce to be served with the quenelles. 20. We take a stewpan, and put in half an ounce of butter and three qicarters of an ounce of flour. 21. We put the stewpan on the fire, and mix them together with a wooden spoon. 22. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut ofif the end of the stalks and wash them well in cold water. 23. We take them out of the water, put them upon a board, and peel them carefully with a sharp knife. 24. We pour in half a pint of second white stock to the mixture in the stewpan, and add the mushroom peelings for flavouring. 25. We must stir well until it boils and thickens. 26. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire with the lid half on, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Quenelles of Veal. 67 Now it is finished. 27. We then take a spoon, and skim off all the butter from the top of the sauce. 28. We now stir into the sauce one gill of cream, and stand the stewpan aside to keep warm, until required for use. 29. We take the peeled mushrooms and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 30. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice and pour in one tablespoonful of cold water. 31. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 32. We now pour boiling water carefully into the saute- pan, enough to cover the quenelles. N.B.—We must be careful to pour the water very gently into the saute-pan or the quenelles will be spoiled. 33. We put the saute-pan on the fire to poach the quenelles for ten minutes. N.B.—We muBt watch them and occasionally turn them carefully with a spoon. 34. When the quenelles are done, we lift them carefully out of the water, and lay them on a cloth to drain off the water. 35. For serving we must arrange them tastily in a circle on a hot dish. 36. We fill in the centre of the dish with the boiled mush- rooms. N.B.—Peas (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 9) or spinach (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8) may be served with them instead, according to taste. 37. We take the stewpan off the fire, and pour the sauce through a strainer over the quenelles.68 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 3. BRAISED FILLETS OF BEER Average cost of “ Braised Fillets of Beef INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of fillet of beef i 4 A piece of the fat of bacon o 3 A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, and 1 L bay leaf f 0 °~ 2 young carrots o 1 1 onion, and \ of a stick of celery o 1 A pint of good stock o 2 4! Time required (the stock should be made the day be/ore), about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to lard and braise Fillets of Beef 1. We take one pound of fillet of beef (cut from the under- cut of the sirloin), and put it on a board. 2. We take a sharp knife, and cut the beef into small round fillets, to about the size of the top of a breakfast cup, and about three quarters of an inch in thickness, and trim them neatly. 3. We take a strip of the fat of bacon (nearest the rind is best, as it is harder), about one inch wide. 4. We take a sharp knife and cut up this piece of bacon into little strips, an inch long, and the one-eighth of an inch in width and thickness. 5. We take each fillet and hold it in a clean cloth. 6. We take a larding needle with a little strip of bacon in it, and lard each fillet neatly in regular rows ; until one side of the fillet is entirely covered with strips of bacon. 7. When we have larded all the fillets, we lay them care- fully in a clean saute-pan. 8. We add a bouquet garni\ consisting of a sprig of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf all tied neatly and tightly together.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Braised Fillets of Beef. 6 9 Now it is finished. 9. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in halves. 10. We take an onion and peel it carefully. 11. We add these vegetables and a quarter of a stick of celery to the fillets in the saute-pan. 12. We now pour in a pint of good stock, put the saute- pan on the fire, and baste the fillets continually. N.B.—The stock must not cover the meat. 13. We take a piece of kitchen paper, and cut a round to the size of the saute-pan and butter it. 14. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper on the fillets in the saute-pan. N.B.—This paper is to prevent the meat browning too quickly. 15. We must lift the paper every now and then, when we require to baste the fillets. 16. We should put the sautd-pan into a very hot oven, to brown the fillets. 17. We let the pint of stock reduce to a half glaze, which will take about half an hour. 18. We must watch it, -frequently raise the paper, and baste the fillets with the stock. N.B.—If the fillets are not brown enough, we take a salamander and heat it in the fire. 19. We hold the salamander over the fillets, to brown them a nice colour. 20. For serving, we take the fillets carefully out of the saute-pan, and arrange them on a hot dish in a circle, on a border of mashedpotatoes. (See “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2.) N.B.—We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire to keep warm until the sauce is ready. 21. We put the saut£-pan on the fire, and let the sauce reduce to a half glaze. 22. We then strain the glaze round the meat. N.B.—The centre of the dish maybe filled in with mixed vegetables, i.e., peas and beans, which should be cut in the shape of dice, carrots and turnips cut with a cutter, to the size of the peas.70 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 4. MUTTON CUTLETS. Average cost of “ Mutton Cutlets.” INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton.. Bread crumbs 1 egg Salt and pepper 3 ounces of clarified butter t. d. 3 o o 1 o I o o£ O 3t Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to fry Mutton Cutlets. 1. We take three pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to the bone. 6. We take a cutlet-bat, wet it, and beat each cutlet to about half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified and used as dripping. 9. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 10. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Mutton Cutlets. 71 Now it is finished. 11. We take one egg and beat it on a plate with a knife. 12. We season the cutlets on both sides with pepper and salt. 13. We lay them in the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush. 14. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover them well. N.B.—We should be careful to finger them as little as possible, and lift them by the bare bone. 15. We take a saute-pan, and pour in it one ounce of melted clarified butter or lard or clarified dripping (see Lesson “ Frying”). 16. We now lay in the cutlets with the bones to the centre of the saute-pan. 17. We pour over them two more ounces of melted clarified butter or fat. 18. We must now put the saute-pan on a very quick fire for about seven minutes. 19. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour on both sides. 20. We place a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 21. When the cutlets are done we take them carefully out with a fork, and lay them on the paper on the plate to drain off the grease. N.B.—We should be careful not to stick the fork into the meat (or the gravy will run out), but into the fat. 22. For serving, we arrange them nicely in a dish, in a circle, one leaning over the other ; the centre may be filled with any vegetable according to taste.72 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 5. CHAUD FROID OF CHICKEN. Average cost of “ Chaud Froid of Chicken'd INGREDIENTS. x chicken J a pint of white sauce 1 gill of cream 2 tablespoonsful of aspic jelly \ Chopped pieces of aspic jelly J Mixed vegetables 1 gill of mayonnaise sauce s. 3 1 o d. & o\ 6 1 o o 9 o 5 7 2s Time required, about one hotir and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to make Chaud froid of Chicken. 1. We put half a pint of white sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 1), in a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and stir well with a wooden spoon till the sauce is reduced to one gill (or quarter of a pint) 3. We then add one gill (or quarter of a pint) of cream, and stir again until it just boils. 4. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 5. We take the stewpan off the fire and pass the contents through the sieve into the basin. 6. When it is all passed through into the basin, we stir in two tablespoonsful of aspic jelly (see “Jelly,” Lesson No. 2). N.B.—This aspic jelly should be made with chicken as well as veal. 7. We take a cold roast chicken (see “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting ”), and put it on a board. N.B.—The chicken must be young, as the flesh should be as white as possible. 8. We cut it up in the same way as for carving, takingNow it is finished. Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Chaud Froid of Chicken. 7 3 care that the pieces are all of one size. We must remove the ski?i and neatly trim each piece. 9. We take these pieces of chicken and dip them in the sauce, covering them well over. 10. We stand a drainer over a dish. 11. We place the pieces of chicken on the drainer, and let them remain until the sauce is set over each piece. 12. For serving we arrange the pieces of chicken on chopped aspic jelly (see “Jelly,” Lesson No. 2,) in a circle on a dish. 13. The centre should be filled in with mixed vegetables, i.e., cooked potato, carrot, and beet-root\ stamped out with a vegetable cutter, cooked French beans, cut to the shape of dice, and green peasy all mixed together, with two table- spoonsful of mayonnaise sauce. (See “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 3.)74 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 6. VEAL CUTLETS. Average cost of “ Grilled Veal Cutlets? INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of veal.... Savory thyme \ The rind of half a lemon S i bunch of parsley ) i ounce of butter i teaspoonful of lemon juice iegg Pepper and salt 1 Bread crumbs j s. d. 3 o o i o o o I O I | lb. of bacon for rolls, 3 Ah o 6 3 ™h Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to grill Veal Cutlets. 1. We take three pounds of the best end of the neck of veal or veal cutlet, and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to the bone, so as to get an extra cutlet between each bone. 6. We take a cutlet bat and beat each cutlet to about half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified, and used for dripping.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Veal Cutlets. 75 9. We take a little savoury thyme, put it on a board, and chop it up very finely (the thyme, when chopped, should fill a saltspoon). 10. We take half a lemon and peel it very thinly. 11. We chop this lemon rind up very finely. 12. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 13. We chop this parsley up very finely, on a board. 14. We put one ounce of butter on a kitchen plate, and put it in the oven to melt. 15. When the butter is melted, we add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and the chopped thyme, lemon rind’ and parsley. 16. We add one egg and pepper and salt to taste, and beat all up together with a knife. 17. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 18. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 19. We dip each cutlet into the plate, and cover them all over with the mixture. 20. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover them well. N.B.—We should finger them as little as possible. 21. We take a gridiron and hold it to the fire to warm. 22. We arrange the cutlets on the gridiron. 23. We place the gridiron in front of a bright fire, but not too near, or the bread crumbs will burn before the cutlets are sufficiently cooked. 24. We should then let them grill for about ten minutes, and when they have become a pale brown on one side, we should turn the gridiron so as to brown them on both sides alike. 25. For serving, we arrange the cutlets on a wall of mashed potatoes, (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2) in a circle on a hot dish, one leaning over the other; the centre76 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. may be filled in with rolls of bacon, (see below) and with a thick brown sauce (see “ Sauces,” Lesson No. 2). Now it is finished. For Rolls of Bacon. 1. We cut some thin slices of bacony about two inches wide, and about foiLr inches in length. 2. We roll up these strips of bacon. 3. We take a skewer and run it through the centre of each roll of bacon. 41 4. We place this skewer, with the bacon, on a tin and put it in the oven for six minutes. 5. For serving, we take the rolls of bacon off the skewer, and arrange them in the centre of the cutlets} as described above.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.) Fricassee of Chicken. 77 ENTREES. Lesson No. 7. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. Average cost of a “ Fricassee of Chicken." INGREDIENTS. 1 young chicken 1 small caiTOt... 2 an onion x stick of celery 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley 1 sprig of thyme 1 bay leaf 2 cloves 6 peppercorns 1 blade of mace 1 \ pint of second white stock .. 1 oz. of butter 1 \ oz. of flour 2 dozen of button mushrooms ) Fried bread / 1 gill of cream Time required, about one hour a?id a half. Time required, about forty minutes. Average cost of a “ Fricasse* of Cold Chicken'.' INGREDIENTS. s. d. s. d. 3 6 Some cold chicken, J one .... i 9 \ a carrot \ I of an onion % a stick of celery \ o 1 A bouquet garni, of parsley, j 0 xi thyme, and bay-leaf } 1 gill of cream o 6 1 clove j 3 peppercorns ; o o| j a blade of mace ) 0 si 1 pint of good white stock .... o 7k 0 of \ an oz. of butter ) . O 0 0* 1 oz. of flour j 0 x dozen button mushrooms .... o 6 1 O Fried bread ) 0 6 Salt J 0 °T 5 3 Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of Chicken. 1. We take a young chicken, clean it, draw it (see “Trussing a Fowl for Roasting,” from Note 1 to Note 12), and skin it. 2. We cut the chicken into joints, and put them in a basin of cold water for about ten minutes. 3. After that time we take the pieces of chicken out of the water and dry them in a clean cloth. 4. We take one small carrot, wash and scrape it clean, and cut it into slices. 5. We take half an onion and peel it. 6. We take one stick of celery and two or three sprigs of parsley, and wash them in cold water.jS National Training School for Cookery. 7. We put these vegetables into a stewpan. 8. We add to them one sprig of thyme, one bay leaf \ two cloves, six peppercorns, and one blade of mace. 9. We now put in the pieces of chicken} and add one and a half pint of second white stock. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil gently for about half an hour. 11. When the pieces of chicken are quite done, we take them out of the stewpan, wash them in a basin of cold water, and dry them in a cloth. 12. We strain the stock from the stewpandnto the basin. 13. We take two dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the ends of the stalks, wash them in cold water, and peel them. 14. We take the peeled mushrooms, and put them into the stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 15. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and pour in a tablespoonful of cold water. 16. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 17. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them on to a plate. 18. We wash out the stewpan, and then put in it one ounce of butter. 19. We put the stewpan on the fire to melt the butter. 20. We then add one and a half ounce of flour to the buttery stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 21. We now remove all the grease from the chicken stock, and add it and the trimmings of the mushrooms to the stewpan, and stir well until it boils. 22. We must now move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. The cover of the stewpan should be half on. 23. After that time we take a spoon and carefully skim off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the sauce. 24. We now put the stewpan over the fire to boil, andCooking Meat—{Entrees.) Fricassee of Chicken. 79 let the sauce reduce to about one pint} and then add one gill of cream. 25. We take the pieces of chicken and put them in another stewpan, with the two dozen of button mushrooms. 26. When the sauce is sufficiently reduced, we strain it over the chicken. 27. We then stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot water over the fire until the chicken is quite hot. 28. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a hot dish, with fried bread (as described in “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17). Now it is finished. Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of Cold Chicken. 1. We take some cold roast or boiled chicken. 2. We cut away all the meat from the bone, and cut it up into neat pieces. 3. We put one pint of good white stock (see “ Lesson on Stock ”), and the chicken bones into a stewpan. 4. We take half a carrot\ wash and scrape it clean, and cut it into slices. 5. We take a quarter of an onion and peel it. 6. We take half a stick of celery and wash it in cold water. 7. We put these vegetables into the stewpan. 8. We add to them a bouquet garni (consisting of a sprig of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and one bay leaf tied tightly together), one clove, three peppercorns, and half a blade of mace. 9. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it boil for twenty minutes. 10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin.So National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 11. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the end of the stalks, wash them in cold water, and peel them. 12. We take the peeled mushrooms and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 13. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and pour in a tablespoonful of cold water. 14. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them to the boil. 15. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them on to a plate. 16. We put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan. 17. We put the stewpan on the fire. When the butter is melted we put in one ounce of flour, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 18. We now add the chicken stock, and the mushroom peelings, and stir the sauce well until it boils. 19. We let it boil for ten minutes to cook the four. 20. After that time we add one gill of cream, and salt to taste. 21. We put the pieces of chicken and the button mush- rooms into another stewpan. 22. We strain the sauce over the chicken, and then stand the stewpan, in a saucepan of hot water, over the fire until the chicken is quite hot. 23. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a hot dish, with some fried bread (as described in “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17), put round the edge.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—(Entries?)—Beef Olives. 81 ENTREES. Lesson No. 8. BEEF OLIVES. Average cost of “ Beef Olives.” INGREDIENTS. j. d. lb. of beef or rump steak, or the fillet ) of beef / 2 ° 2 oz. of beef suet o 11 3 oz. of bread crumbs o i i teaspoonful of chopped parsley o o£ £ of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram A little grated lemon rind and nutmeg .. Salt and pepper j ; i egg o i i pint of brown sauce or stock i o 3 45 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Beef Olives. 1. We take one and a half pound of beef or rump steak, or the fillet of beefy and put it on a board. 2. We cut the beef in slices about half an inch in thick- ness and four inches in length, and beat them out with a wet cutlet bat. N.B.—We should be careful that all the slices are of the same size. 3. We take the trimmings that remain, chop them up very finely, and put them in a basin. 4. We take two ounces of beef suet, and put it on a board. 5. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop the suet up very finely. 6. We stand a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. (There should be three ounces of bread crumbs.) 8. We take a little parsley and chop it up finely. (There should be one teaspoonftd of chopped parsley.) F82 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We take a little thyme and marjoram and chop them up finely. (There should be about a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram.) 10. We add all these things (i.e., suet, bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, and marjoram) to the chopped beef in the basin. 11. We also grate about half a teaspoonfid of lemon rind’ and nutmeg (as much as would cover a $d. piece) into the basin. 12. We season it with pepper and salt according to taste, and add one egg, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 13. We take this mixture out of the basin, and form it into pieces the shape and size of a cork. 14. We roll up each slice of beef placing a piece of stuffing in the centre. 15. We should tie each roll round with a piece of twine to fasten it securely together. 16. We place these rolls in a stewpan, with about one pint of brown sauce (see “Sauces,” Lesson No. 2), ox good stock (see Lesson on “ Stock”), 17. We put the stewpan on the fire and let them stew gently for three quarters of an hour. 18. For serving, we arrange the beef olives on a hot dish in a circle, pouring the sauce round the edge; the centre maybe filled in with dressed spinach (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8), or with mashed potatoes (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 2).Lessons on Cooking Meat.—{Entries!)—Irish Stew. 83 ENTREES. Lesson No. 9. IRISH STEW. Average cost of an “ Irish Stew!' INGREDIENTS. s. d. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton 1 or the scrag end ) 3 i teaspoonful of salt \ Qi i saltspoonful of pepper j 4 i doz. of button onions or two moderate ones o i 6 large potatoes o 2 3 35 Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make an Irish Stew. 1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and cut and trim the cutlets in the same way as for “haricot mutton” (see “Entrees,” Lesson No. io, from Note I to Note 8). 2. We place the cutlets in a stewpan. 3. We sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper, and pour in one and a half pint of cold water. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when it has come to the boil we should skim it. 5. We now draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for one hour. 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally and re- move all fat. 7. We take half a dozen of potatoes, wash, scrub them, and peel them. 8. We cut these potatoes in halves. 9. We take one dozen of button onions, or two moderate- sized ones, and peel them carefully.84 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We add the onions and potatoes to the stew, and let it simmer for one hour. 11. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the vegetables are quite tender. 12. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round, and the vegetables in the centre. N.B.—The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the best end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Haricot Mutton. 85 ENTREES. Lesson No. 10. HARICOT MUTTON. Average cost of “ Haricot Mutton'.' INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton 1 onion Pepper and salt ) 1 tablespoonful of flour / 1 pint of second stock 1 carrot 1 turnip 1 dozen button onions s. 3 o o o o o o d. 0 01 oi 3$ 3 Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make Haricot Mutton. 1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and put it on a board. 2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone; leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 3. We saw off the chine bone which lies at the back of the cutlets. 4. We joint each cutlet with a chopper. 5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet. 6. We take a cutlet-bat and beat each cutlet to about rather more than half an inch in thickness. 7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. N.B.—The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be clarified and used for dripping (see Lesson on “ Frying ”). 9. We take one onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 10. We put the onion and the cutlets in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter.86 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 11. We put the stewpan on a quick fire to fry the cutlets a nice brown. 12. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour on both sides:—We then remove the cutlets from the stew- pan. 13. We should pour off the grease from the stewpan (and leave the onion), and then add one tablespoonful of flour, and pour in by degrees one pint of second stock, and stir well until it boils. 14. We strain this sauce, and return the cutlets with the sauce into the stewpan. 15. We take one carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in the shape of young carrots, or into fancy shapes with a cutter. 16. We take two turnips, peel them, and cut them in quarters. . 17. We take one dozen button onions and peel them very carefully, so as not to break them in pieces. 18. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the meat stew gently for half an hour, then add the prepared vege- tables, and let all simmer for half an hour. 19. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the vegetables are quite tender. 20. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish with the vegetables in the centre ; we remove all grease from the sauce and pour it round. N.B.—The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the best end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use.Cooking Meat.—{Entries.)—Croquettes of Chicken. 8 7 ENTREES. Lesson No. ii. CROQUETTES OR RISSOLES OF CHICKEN. Average cost of “ Croquettes or Rissoles of Chicken " (about 15). INGREDIENTS. £ a cold chicken 2 oz. of lean ham or bacon 6 mushrooms 1 oz. of flour 1 oz. of butter 3 a gill (1 gill is i pint) of cream ... 1 gill of stock Seasoning The juice of half a lemon | lb. of bread crumbs s. d. 1 9 o 6 0 3 o 2 O 3 o 2 O 03 O I O I O 2 If for rissoles with paste— 4 oz. of flour and 3 oz. of butter 3 Si o 4z 3 10 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Croquettes or Ris- soles of Chicken. 1. We take the half chicken (either roasted or boiled), cut away all the flesh from the bones, and put it on a board. 2. We cut away the skin, and mince the meat up very finely. 3. We take the mushrooms, wash them, peel them, and mince them and the ham up finely on the board, mixing them with the minced chicken. 4. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire. 5. When the butter is melted we stir in one ounce of flour, and mix it to a smooth paste.88 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We now add the stock, and stir again smoothly until it boils and thickens. 7. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire and stir in half a gill of cream. 8. We take half a lemon and squeeze the juice of it into the saiLce. N.B.—We must be careful not to let any pips fall in. 9. We season the sauce with pepper and salt according to taste, and, if liked, we might grate about half a saltspoonful of nutmeg into it. 10. We now stir in the minced chickeny ham, and mush- rooms until all are well mixed together. 11. We take a plate and turn the contents of the stew- pan on to it. 12. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut it to the size of the plate, butter it, and lay it on the top of the mixture, and stand the plate aside to cool. 13. When the mixture is cold we put one pound and half of lard or clarified dripping in a deep stewpan, and put it on the fire to heat. 14. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through a wire sieve on to a piece of paper. 15. If rissoles are required we put four ounces of flour on a board, and rub into it three ounces of butter until both are thoroughly mixed and there are no lumps remaining. 16. We mix the flour and butter into a stiff smooth paste with cold water. 17. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, sprinkle some flour over the board, and roll the paste out into as thin a sheet as possible. 18. We flour our hands, dip a knife in four (to prevent any sticking), and form the chicken mixture into anjr fancy shapes for croquettes either in balls or long rollsy &c., or we can roll it in the paste for rissoles. 19. We break an egg on. to a plate and beat it up slightly with a knife.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Croquettes of Chicken. 89 Flow it is finished. 20. We dip the croquettes or rissoles into the egg, and egg them well all over with a paste brush. 21. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them well all over. N.B.—We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 22. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes or rissoles in it, but we must finger them ag little as possible, and not allow them to touch each other. 23. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking, we put in the frying basket for two minutes or so, to fry them a pale yellow. 24. We put a piece of whity-brown paper on a plate, and as the rissoles are fried we turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. 25. For serving we arrange them tastily on a hot dish, with fried parsley in the centre. N.B.—Cold veal or pheasant, &c., might be used for the rissoles and cro- quettes instead of chicken, if preferred.90 National Training School for Cookery. ENTREES. Lesson No. 12. CURRIED RABBIT. Average cost of “ Curried Rabbit or Veal ” INGREDIENTS. f. rf. 1 rabbit or ij lb. of veal cutlet i 6 5 lb. of butter o 4 2 onions ) 1 apple J 0 2 2 tablespoonsful of curry powder o 4 1 pint of good stock o 8 x gill (J pint) of cream o 6 x lemon 1 £ a teaspoonful of salt J 0 2 3 8 Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Curry of rabbit or veal. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We take two onions, peel them, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible. 3. We put the chopped onions into the melted butter, and let them fry a light brown. N.B.—We must be careful that they do not burn. 4. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and pro- perly prepared for cooking), wash it well, and dry it in a cloth. 5. We put the rabbit on a board and cut it up in pieces of equal size. 6. If veal is used we should put it on a board and cut it into equal sized pieces. N.B.—If preferred chicken can be used instead of rabbit or veal. 7. When the onions are fried we strain them from the butler.Cooking Meat.—(Entries.)—Curried Rabbit. 91 Now it is finished. 8. We put the butter back into the stewpan. 9. We now put in the pieces of meat, put the stewpan over a quick fire, and let it fry for ten minutes. 10. We must watch it and turn the pieces of meat occa- sionally, so that they are fried on both sides alike. 11. We take an apple, peel it, cut out the core, and chop it up as finely as possible on a board. 12. When the meat is fried we add to it two tablespoons- fid of curry powder, and half a teaspoonfid of salt, and stir well over the fire for five minutes. 13. We then put in the fried onions, the chopped apple, and one pint of good stock. 14. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for tzvo hours. 15. After that time we stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream. 16. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife (the peel we should put aside as it is not required for present use). 17. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice of it through a strainer into the stewpan. 18. For serving we take the pieces of meat out of the stewpan and arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over the meat. N.B.—Boiled rice (see Lesson on “ Rice ”) should be served with the curry.92 National Training School for Cookery. RICE. Average cost of “ Boiled Rice to be served with Curry, &c. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of Patna rice ,... 5 of a teaspoonful of salt Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to boil Rice to be served with curry, &c. 1. We take a large stewpan and pour in it four quarts of water. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil the water. 3. We take half a pound of Patna rice, put it in a basin of cold water, and wash it well. 4. We drain off the water and rub the rice with our hands. 5. We must carefully pick out all the yellow grains and bits of black. 6. We must wash the rice in this manner four times. 7. Just before putting the rice on to boil we must pour some fresh cold water over it. 8. When the water in the stewpan is quite boiling, we throw the rice into it, stirring it round with a spoon. 9. We must add one quarter of a teaspoonfid of salt, which will make the scum rise. 10. We must take a spoon and skim it occasionally. 11. The rice should boil fast from fifteen to twenty minutes. N.B.—To test if the rice is sufficiently boiled, we should take out a grain or two, and press it between the thumb and finger, and if quite done, it will mash. 12. We now pour the rice out of the saucepan into a cullender to drain off the water.'Now it is finished. 93 Lesso7ts on Cooking.—Boiled Rice. 13. We take the cullender which contains the rice, and hold it under the tap. 14. We turn the tap and let the cold water run on to the rice for one or two seconds. (This is to separate the grains of rice.) 15. We take a clean dry stewpan and put it at the side of the fire. 16. When the water is quite drained from the rice, we turn it from the cullender into the dry stewpan at the side of the fire. 17. We put the lid half on the stewpan. 18. We watch it, and stir it occasionally, to prevent the grains from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan. 19. When the rice is quite dry, we take it out carefully with a wooden spoon, and place it lightly on to a hot dish.94 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. i. A-LA-MODE BEEF. Average cost of “ A-la-Mode Beef.” INGREDIENTS- i cow-heel An ox-cheek 3 oz. of dripping 3 carrots 6 onions 1 bunch of herbs (marjoram, thyme, parsley, and bay leaf) 2 tablespoon sful of flour Pepper and salt s. d. o 6 2 o O Ijj o Ij o 2 o o£ o o| 3 © Time required, three hours. Now we will show you how to make A-la-mode Beef. 1. We take a dressed cow-heel and wash it thoroughly in water. 2. We put the cow-heel on a board, and cut off all the flesh ; we cut the flesh into neat pieces. 3. We take an ox-cheek and wash it well in cold water. N.B.—We must be sure it is quite clean and free from all impurities. 4. We put the ox-cheek on a board, and rub it well with salt. 5. We then rub it quite dry in a clean cloth. 6. We put three ounces of clarified dripping into a large saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt. 7. We cut the ox-cheek up into neat pieces. N.B.—We should weigh the flesh of the ox-cheek and cow-heel, so as to know how much water should be added, as x pint is allowed to each lb. of meat. 8. We flour each piece. 9. When the dripping is melted, we put in the floured pieces of ox-cheek, and let them fry a nice brown.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—A-ia-Mode Beef 95 Now it is finished. 10. We must stir the pieces occasionally, and not let them stick to the bottom of the saucepan. 11. We take three carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 12. We take six onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. 13. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth. 14. We take one sprig of marjoram, thyme, one bay-leaf and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 15. We put these vegetables and the bunch of herbs into the saucepan. 16. We also pour in the proper quantity of water, namely, one pint of water to each pound of meat. 17. We put two tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, and mix it into a smooth paste with cold water. 18. We now put the pieces of cow-heel into the saucepan, and plenty of pepper and salt to taste. 19. We stir the paste smoothly into the saucepan. 20. We put the lid on the saucepan, and when it boils we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for three hours. 21. We must watch it and skim it very often. N.B.—We must be always careful to skim anything that is cooking directly the scum rises, or it will boil down again into the meat and will spoil it— scum is the impurity which rises from the meat or vegetables. 22. When the stew is finished, we pour it into a large dish or a soup tureen ; it is then ready for serving. N.B.—The bones of the cowheel should be put into the stockpot.96 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 2. BRAZILIAN STEW. Average cost of a “ Brazilian StezvP INGREDIENTS. s. d. 4 lbs. of shin or sticking of beef 2 o 2 carrots o 1 2 turnips o 1 4 onions o 2 A bunch of herbs, i.e., marjoram, thyme, | and parsley > o o| Pepper and salt ) 1 gill of vinegar o o| 2 5 Time required, about three hours and ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Brazilian Stew. 1. We take four pounds of the shin or stickingof beef \ put it on a board, and cut all the meat off the bone. 2. We cut the meat up into neat pieces. 3. We put some vinegar into a basin; we dip each piece of meat into the vinegar. N.B.—Putting meat into vinegar will make it tender, therefore any tough pieces of meat may be used for this stew. The vinegar will not be tasted when the meat is cooked. 4. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them into slices with a sharp knife. 6. We take two turnips and four onions, peel them, and cut them up into slices. 6. We put the pieces of meat into a saucepan, arranging them closely together. 7. We should sprinkle some pepper and salt over the meat. 8. We now put in all the vegetables, and we also add aLessons on Cooking Meat.—Brazilian Stew. 97 small bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, tied tightly together. N.B.—We put no water in this stew; the vinegar draws out the juices of the meat, and makes plenty of gravy. 9. We shut down the lid tight, put the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for at least three hours. 10. For serving we turn the stew on to a hot dish, or in a soup tureen. Now it is finished. G98 National Training School for Cookery. STEWS. Lesson No. 3. IRISH STEW. Average cost of an “ Irish Stew! INGREDIENTS. d. 2 lbs. of potatoes . 2 I lb. of the scrag end of mutton 8 II b of onions ) Pepper and salt j 11 Time required, about three hours. Now we will show you how to make an “ Irish StewI 1. We take two pounds of potatoes, wash them well in cold water. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, carefully cut out the eyes or any black specks about the potatoes, and cut them in slices. 3. We take one pound of onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. 4. We take one pound of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, wash it in cold water, and scrape it clean with a knife. 5. We put the meat on a board, and cut it up in small pieces. 6. We take a large saucepan, put in a layer cf meat, then a layer of potatoes, then a layer of otiions. 7. We should sprinkle a little pepper aitd salt over each layer for seasoning. 8. We continue to fill the saucepan in this way till there is no meat or vegetables left. 9. We now pour in sufficient cold water to cover the bottom of the saucepan (about half a pint). 10. We put the saucepan on the fire,, and when it hasLessons on Cooking Meat.—Irish Stew. 99 come to the boil, we draw it to the side of the fire and let it stew gently for from one hour and a half to two hours. 11. We must watch it, and stir it occasionally to prevent its catching. 12. For serving we turn the stew out on a hot dish. N.B.—If a larger quantity of potato is required in the stew, the extra quantity of potato should be parboiled (see note below), and then cut in slices, and added to the stew % an hour before it is ready for serving. If all the potatoes were put in with the meat at first, so much water would be required that the stew would be spoiled. N.B.—For parboiling (or half boiling) potatoes we wash them, and peel them, put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, put the saucepan on the fire, and let the potatoes boil for about a \ of an hour. Now it is finished. G 2ioc National Training School for Cookery. O 2 STEWS. Lesson No. 4. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF (cold). Average cost of “ Stezved Brisket of Beef.” INGREDIENTS. 7 lbs. of brisket of beef at 9d. per lb 2 carrots 1 turnip 2 onions ., 1 head of celery 1 leek Bouquet garni (i.e., sprig of thyme, mar-1 joram, and bay leaf ) ! 6 cloves i 12 peppercorns I 6 allspice j 1 tablespoonful of salt J 5 Time required, about four hours. Now we will show you how to stew Brisket of Beef to be served cold. 1. We take seven pounds of brisket of beef (not very fat), see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, scrape it with a knife and wipe it with a clean cloth, and then put it into a large saucepan. 2. We take two carrots, wash and scrape them clean and cut them in halves. 3. We take one turnip and two onions, wash them and peel them, and cut the turnip in quarters. 4. We take one leek and one head of celery, wash them well in water, cut the long green leaves off the leek, and the green tops from the celery. 5. We add all these vegetables to the meat in the saucepan. 6. We also add a bouquet garni, of thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf tied tightly together, six cloves, twelve pepper- s' d. 5 3 o r o o£ o X o 2 O XLessons on Cooking Meat.—Stewed Brisket of Beef, i o i Now it is finished. corns, six allspice, one tablespoonful of salt, and three quarts of cold water. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil we should skim it well. 8. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for three hours, we must watch it and skim it occasionally. 9. After that time we take the meat out of the saucepan and put it on a dish. 10. We take a knife and carefully remove the flat bones at the side of the beef. 11. We place the beef between two dishes and some heavy weight on the top to press the beef. 12. We pour the stock through a strainer into a basin, and when it is cold we should remove every particle of fat. 13. We then put the stock in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil, without the lid, so as to reduce the stock to a glaze, about a gill (a quarter of a pint). 14. We now take the beef and with a paste brush cover the joint with the glaze, brushing it over several times until all the glaze is used up ; as soon as the glaze is cold and set on the beef, it is ready for serving.102 National Training School for Cookery. TRIPE. Lesson No. i. CURRIED TRIPE. Average cost of “ Curried Tripe'.' INGREDIENTS. a. i lb. of tripe 8 £ lb. of Patna rice of i onion Flour, sugar, and Curry powder Tune required, about three hours. Now we will show you how to make a Curry of Tripe. 1. We take one pound of tripe, put it in a saucepan of cold water, and let it boil up. Immediately it boils take it out of the water. N.B.—This is called blanching. 2. After the tripe has been blanched, we scrape it with a knife to thoroughly cleanse it. 3. We cut the tripe up into small pieces. 4. We take a saucepan and lay the pieces of tripe in it, and pour in sufficient cold water to cover the tripe. 5. We take a small onion and peel it, and cut it partially through. 6. We put the onion into the saucepan of tripe. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we must remove it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for not less than two hours and a half. 8. After that time we try the tripe with a fork, and if it is sufficiently cooked it will be very tender. 9. We take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 10. We take the pieces of tripe out with a fork and put them on a dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Cttrried Tripe. 103 11. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of flour, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, and half an ounce of dripping, and mix them all well together with a wooden spoon. 12. We add cold water, sufficient to make the above into a stiff paste. 13. We now pour in half a pint of the liquor in which the tripe was boiled. 14. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the mixture well until it boils and thickens. We must not let it get lumpy. 15. We stir in a quarter of a teaspoon fid of brown sugar and salt according to taste. We must now stand the saucepan aside to get cool. 16. We take the onion which was boiled with the tripe, and cut it in shreds and add it to the sauce. 17. When the sauce is a little cool we put in the pieces of tripe and just let them warm through. 18. We take a dish and warm it, and pour the tripe and sauce on it, keeping it as much in the centre of the dish as possible. 19. We take a teacupfid of Patna rice, wash it well in two or three waters, and put it in a saucepan full of boiling water. We must be sure the water is boiling. (N.B.—Rice should be boiled in plenty of water.) We add to it a saltspoonful of salt. 20. We must let it boil from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, after that time we must feel the rice to see if it is soft. 21. When the rice is sufficiently cooked we strain it off, and pour cold water over it. 22. We then put the rice back into the empty saucepan, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire to dry the rice. The lid should be only half on the saucepan. 23. When the rice is quite dry we take it out of the saucepan and arrange it round the tripe. Now it is finished.104 National Training School for Cookery. TRIPE. Lesson No. 2. TRIPE IN MILK. Average cost of “ Tripe in Milk.” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of tripe o 8 3 or 4 good sized onions o 2 i pint of milk o 2 Seasoning and flour o oj i o\ Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to cook Tripe in Milk. 1. We take one pound of tripe, put it into a saucepan t>f' cold water to boil up and blanch. When it boils we take it off the fire. 2. After the tripe has been blanched, we take it out of the water and scrape it with a knife to thoroughly cleanse it. 3. We put the tripe on a board and cut it in small pieces. 4. We take three or four good sized onions, peel them and cut them partially through. 5. We put the tripe and onions into a saucepan with one pint of milk. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 7. When it boils we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for not less than two hours. 8. After that time we should feel the tripe with a fork, and if it is sufficiently cooked it will be very tender. 9. We take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table.Now it is finished. Lessons on Cooking Meat.-—Tripe in Milk. 105 10. We take the onions out of the saucepan and put them on a board and chop them up finely. 11. We take the tripe out of the saucepan and arrange it on a warm dish. 12. We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 13. We take a dessertspoonful of flour and mix it to a smooth paste with cold inilk. 14. We stir, by degrees, the paste into the hot milk, and let it boil and thicken. 15. We now stir the onion into the milk and let it warm through. 16. We season the onion sauce, according to taste, and pour it over the tripe.io6 National Training School for Cookery. (see "Tripe,” Lesson No. 2). TRIPE. Lesson No. 3. TRIPE A LA COUTANCE. Average cost of “ Tripe a la Coutance? INGREDIENTS. s. d. 1 lb. of thin tripe o 8 2 lb. of bacon o 6 1 small carrot o o| 4 mushrooms o 2 2 a large onion or 6 small green onions .. 1 Bouquet garni > o 2| 2 shalots and parsley ) 2 oz. of butter o 2 i tablespoonful of Harvey sauce i i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup.... J ° 2 i oz. of flour o oj: i pint of stock o 75 The juice of half a lemon o 1 Salt and pepper o o| 2 8i Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to cook Tripe a la Con tance. 1. We wash the tripe well in cold water. 2. We put the tripe in a stewpan with cold water enough to cover it. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and bring it to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch the tripe. 4. We then take the tripe out of the stewpan and dry it in a clean cloth. • 5. We put the tripe on a board, and with a sharp knife cut it into strips about two inches zvide and four inches in length. N.B.—Only Within part of the tripe can be usedfor " tripe d la Coutance/" if there are any thick pieces they can be cooked with milk and onionsLessons on Cooking Meat.—Tripe a la Coutance. 107 6. We take the half pound of bacon and cut it in very thin slices, the same size as the strips of tripe. 7. We take one shalot, peel it, and two or three sprigs of parsley, and chop them up finely on a board. 8. We lay one slice of bacon on each strip of tripe, sprinkle a little chopped shalot and parsley over each slice of bacon, roll them up together, and tie them firmly round with a piece of string. 9. We take the carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in slices. 10. We take the half onion and the other shalot, peel * them, and cut them in slices. 11. We take a sprig of marjoram, thyme, and a bay-leaf, and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 12. We take the mushrooms, wash them, and cut off the end of the stalks. 13. We arrange the rolls of tripe and bacon in a stewpan. 14. We also add all the vegetables and the herbs. 15. We pour in a pint of stock, and put the stewpan on the fire. 16. When it just boils we remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for two hours. 17. After that time we take out the rolls of tripe and put them on a plate. 18. We take a strainer, hold it over a basin, and strain the stock. 19. We put two oimces of butter into another stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 20. When the butter is melted we add to it one ounce of flour, and mix them smoothly together. 21. We now add the stock, and stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. 22. We take half a lemo?i and squeeze the juice of it into the sauce. N.3 —We must be careful not to let any pips fall in.Now it is finished. io8 National Training School for Cookery. 23. We also stir in one tciblespoonfnl of Harvey sauce, and one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and season the sauce with pepper and salt. 24. We now place in the rolls of tripe, and let them warm through. 25. For serving we arrange the rolls of tripe in a circle on a hot dish, with some puree of carrot, or spinach (see “Vegetables,” Lessons Nos. 6 and 8), or with a mixture of vegetables (according to taste), in the centre, and pour the sauce round the edge.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Braised Fillet of Veal. 109 BRAISED FILLET OF VEAL. Average cost of(i A Braised Fillet of Veal.” INGREDIENTS. ; baylcaf j 1 onion 3 pints of good stock 2 young carrots Celery and turnip ) Salt j 3! lbs. of the fillet of veal. 5 lb. of the fat of bacon A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, and ( .r. d. 3 6 o 6 o o| 0 Oj 1 10 o 1 O Or 6 oj Time required {the stock should be made the day before'), about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to Braise a Fillet of Veal. 1. We take three and a half pounds of the fillet of veal, put it on a board, and cut off all the skin with a sharp knife. 2. We lard this fillet in the same way as for fillets of beef (see “ Entree/’ Lesson No. 3, from Note 3 to Note 7). 3. We place the fillet carefully in a clean braising pan. 4. We add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of parsleyy thyme, and a bay-leaf \ all tied neatly and tightly together. 5. We take tzuo young carrots, wash them, scrape them clean with a knife and cut them in halves. 6. We take an onion and a quarter of a turnip, and peel them carefully. 7. We add these vegetables, and half a stick of celery, to the fillet in the braising pan. 8. We now pour in about three pints of good stock (the stock must not cover the meat), put the stewpan on the fire, and baste the fillet continually. 9. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut a round to the size of the braising pan and butter it. 10. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper on the fillet in the stewpan. N.B.—This paper is to prevent the meat from browning too quickly.Now it is finished. iio National Training School for Cookery. 11. We keep the lid of the braising pan on, and place it in a hot oven, and let it cook slowly for one hour and a quarter. 12. We must watch it, frequently raise the paper, and baste the veal with the stock. 13. We take the veal out of the braising pan, and place it on a hot dish. N.B.—We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire, to keep warm until the sauce is ready. 14. We put the braising pan on the fire and let the sauce reduce to a half glaze. 15. We then strain the glaze round the meat. 16. We serve it with dressed spinach (see “ Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8), or with dressed carrots and turnips (see “ Vegetables/’ Lesson No. 6).Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Roast .Bullock's Heart. 111 ROAST BULLOCK’S HEART. Average cost of a “ Bullock's Heart stuffed ” and “ Brown Sauced INGREDIENTS. “ Bullocks Heart." s. d. i bullock’s heart zs. or 2 6 \ lb. of suet o 2 \ lb. of bread crumbs o o\ 1 gill (5 pint) of milk o oj Salt and pepper y 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley j dessertspoonful of chopped \ o 1^ mixed herbs : thyme, f lemon thyme, and marjo- I ram J \ lb. dripping o 2 3 ° k “ Sauce." s. d. 1 small onion 0 01 Salt and pepper 1 v oz. of flour j 0 O; x oz. of butter 0 I 1 dessertspoonful of mush- room ketchup 0 o 2 Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to stuff a Bullock's Heart and roast it. 1. We must first prepare the fire for roasting, as described in “ Roasting,” Lesson No. I. 2. We take a bullock's hearty and wash it thoroughly in salt and water. 3. We must be careful to cleanse all the cavities of the heart, and to remove all the blood. 4. We take it out of the salt and water, and put it into a basin of clean water and wash it again, until it is quite clean. 5. We now wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. 6. If the heart is not quite dry, it will not roast properly. 7. We put the heart on a board, and with a sharp knife cut off the flaps, or deaf ears (as they are called). N.B.—These we should put aside for gravy.112 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible. 9. We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet to pre- vent it from sticking to the board or knife. 10. We grate some bread crumbs with a grater on to the board. 11. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash them in cold water and dry them in a cloth. 12. We put the parsley on a board and chop it up as finely as possible ; when chopped there should be about one tablespoonful. 13. We take a sprig of thyme, lemon thyme, and marjoramy rub them through a strainer, or chop them up finely on a board ; there should be about one dessertspoonful of the mixed herbs. 14. We now mix the chopped suet and bread crumbs well together. 15. We then add the parsley and the herbs, one teaspoon- fid of salty and pepper to taste, and mix them thoroughly together. 16. We now mix it with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk. 17. We take the heart and fill all the cavities with the stuffings pressing it in as firmly as possible. N.B.—If there is any stuffing over, it can be put aside for the sauce. 18. We take a piece of kitchen paper, and grease it well with a piece of butter or dripping. 19. We place this piece of greased paper over the top of the heart where the cavities are, and tie it on tightly with string. 20. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire, to keep off the draught, and to keep in all the heat. N.B.—A chair .with a cloth over it, would answer the purpose if there was no screen. 21. We put the dripping-pan, or a large dish, down on a stand within the screen close to the fire, with the dripping ladle or a large spoon in it.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Roast Bullock's Heart. 113 22. We hang the roasting-jack up from the mantelpiece over the dripping-pan. N.B.—If there is no roasting jack, we can manage with a strong piece of worsted tied to a poor man’s jack. 23. We must wind up the jack with its key, before we put the meat on. 24. We take the hook of the roasting-jack and pass it through the heart, and hang it on the jack or the worsted. N.B.—If the heart is hanging from a piece of worsted, we must twist the worsted occasionally to make it go round. 25. We put about one ounce of clarified dripping into the dripping-pan and baste the heart occasionally. 26. It will take about two hours to roast. 27. We now take the deaf ears out of the water and put them into a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 28. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 29. We take one small onion, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 30. When the water boils, we put in the onion, and a little salt and pepper to taste. 31. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and let it stew gently until five minutes before the heart is done. 32. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. 33. After that time we strain the liquor into a basin. 34. We wash out the saucepan, and put in it one ounce of butter and put it on the fire to melt. 35. When the butter is melted, we add one tablespoonfd of flour, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 36. We now pour in by degrees the liquor and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens. 37. We then stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until required for use. 38. When the heart is roasted, we take it down, place the heart on a hot dish and draw out the hook. 11114 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 39. We cut the string and take off the greased paper. 40. If there was any stuffing over, we now stir it into the sauce; we also add one dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. N.B.—If the flavouring of mushroom ketchup is disliked, it may be omitted. 41. We pour the sauce round the heart on the dish, and it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Cooking Meat,—Cornish Pasties, 115 CORNISH PASTIES. Average cost of “ Cornish Pasties ” (about 12). INGREDIENTS. s. d. j lb. of buttock steak or beef skirt 2 lb. of potatoes..- i onion 5 o| Ot 1 lb. of flour 4 1 lb. of dripping 4 Salt and pepper ! *• 1 0 0i 1 teaspoonful of baking powder °4 1 oj Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how we make Cornish Pasties. 1. We take half a pound of buttock steak or beef skirt, put it on a board, and cut it up into small pieces. 2. We take half a pound of potatoes, wash and peel them put them on a board, and cut them up into small pieces. 3. We take one small onion, peel it, put it on a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder, 5. We put in half a pound of dripping, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 6. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 7. We flour a board and turn the paste on to it. 8. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll the paste out into a thin sheet, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 9. We cut the paste into pieces about six or seven inches square. 10. We place a little of the meat andpotato in the centre of each square, sprinkle over it a little pepper and salt, and a very little of the chopped onion. 11. We fold the paste over the meat, joining it by pressing the edges together with our thumb and finger. h ?116 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 12. We grease a baking tin and put the pasties on it. N.B.—If there is no baking tin we should grease the shelf in the oven to prevent the pasties from sticking. 13. We put the tin into the oven to bake for from half an hour to three quarters of an hour. 14. For serving, we put the pasties on a dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Grilled Steak. 117 A GRILLED STEAK. Average cost of —“ Grilled Steak!' INGREDIENTS. cf. § lb rump steak 8 Lemon, pepper, and salt i Butter and salad oil i io Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to Grill a Steak (either beef or rump steak will do, but the latter is more tender). 1. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it, dry it well in a cloth, and put it on a board. 2. We must chop the parsley up very fine with a knife. 3. We take a quarter of an ounce of butter and mix it well with the chopped parsley. 4. We sprinkle over it pepper and salt (according to taste), and six drops of lemon juice. 5. We make it all up into a small pat. 6. We take half a pound of rump steak, half an inch in thickness. 7. We pour about a tablespoonful of salad oil on to a plate. 8. We dip both sides of the steak into the oil. 9. We take a gridiron and warm it well by the fire. 10. We place the oiled steak on the gridiron, and hang it on the bars of the stove close to the fire to cook quickly. N.B.—If the meat is at all frozen it must be warmed gradually through, before putting it quite near the fire, or it will be tough. 11. We must turn the gridiron with the steak occa- sionally ; it will take from ten to twelve minutes, according to the brightness and heat of the fire. 12. When the steak is sufficiently cooked, we must place it on a hot dish ; and we should be careful not to stick118 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. the fork into the meat (or the gravy will run out, but into the fat). 13. We take the pat of green butter and put it on the steak} spreading it all over with a knife.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Liver and Bacon. 119 LIVER AND BACON. Average cost of “ Liver and Bacon? INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lbs. sheep’s liver i 4 1 lb. bacon o 10 1 dessertspoonful of flour ) 1 1 small onion j * 2 Time required about half an hour. Now we will show you how to cook Liver and Bacon. 1. We take one pound of bacon, put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 2. We cut the rind off each slice of bacon. 3. We put these slices of bacon into a frying-pan. 4. We put the frying-pan on the fire to fry the bacon. It will take about ten minutes. N.B.—If the bacon is not very fat, we must put a small piece of dripping in the frying-pan with the bacon. 5. We should turn it when one side is fried. 6. We now take a sheep's liver (it will weigh about two pounds), put it on a board, and cut it in slices. 7. We put about two tablespoonsful of flour on a plate. 8. We dip the slices of liver into the flour, and flour them well on both sides. 9. When the bacon is fried we take it out of the frying- pan and put it on a warm dish. 10e We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 11. We put the slices of liver in the frying-pan, a few at a time, as they must not be on the top of each other. N.B.—If the flavour of onion is liked, a small onion, peeled, and cut in slices, might be fried with the liver. 12. The liver will take about a quarter of an hour to fry. 13. We should watch it occasionally, and turn it once. 14. To see when the liver is sufficiently cooked weNow it is finished. 120 National Training School for Cookery. should cut a slice ; the inside should be of a brownish colour. 15. When the liver is all cooked we should place 'it on the dish with the bacon. 18. We put a dessertspoonfid of flour in a cup, and mix it into a smooth paste with nearly a gill (quarter of a pint) of water. 17. We pour the flour and water into the frying-pan and stir it until it boils and thickens. 18. We pour this sauce over the liver and bacon.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Pte. 121 MEAT PIE (BEEF STEAK). fit Average cost of a “ Meat Pie ” (in a quart dish). INGREDIENTS. s. d. lb. buttock steak 1 3 | lb. bullock’s kidney o 6 Seasoning o o| 1 lb. flour o | lb. clarified dripping o 4 1 teaspoonful baking powder o Oj 2 4 Time required about two hours and a quarter* Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 1. We take one and a half pound of buttock steak, put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 2. We should cut away all the skin. 3. We take half a poitnd of bullock's kidney, put it on a plate, and cut it in slices. 4. We put one tablespoonful of flour, teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper on to a plate, and mix them well together. 5. We dip each slice of meat and kidney into the season- ing, and roll them up into little rolls. 6. We arrange these rolls of meat and kidney in a quart pie dish, and fill up the dish two-thirds with water. 7. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 8. We add one teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt to the flour, and mix them well together. 9. We take half a pound of clarified dripping; cut it in small pieces, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful that there are no lumps of dripping in the flour. 10. We then add by degrees enough cold water to make it into a stiff paste. 11. We take a rolling-pin and flour it. We also sprinkle flour on the board, and flour our hands to prevent the paste from sticking.122 National Training School for Cookery. 12. We take the paste out of the basin and put it on a board. 13. We roll out the paste once to the shape of the pie dish, only rather larger, and to the thickness of about one-third of an inch. 14. We wet the edge of the dish with water. 15. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. N.B.—We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge of the paste, leaving the centre piece the size and shape of the top of the pie dish 16. We wet the edge of the paste with water. 17. We take the remaining paste and place it over the pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. N.B.—We must be very careful not to break the paste. 18. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. N.B.—We can ornament the top of the pie with any remaining paste to our fancy. 20. We make a hole with the knife in the centre of the pie to let out the steam while the pie is baking. N.B.—If there was not an escape for the steam it would sodden the inside of the crust, and so prevent it from baking properly. 21. We put the pie into the oven to bake gently for two hours. We must watch it occasionally, and turn it to prevent its burning. It should become a pale brown. N.B.—Meat pies should be put in the hottest part of the oven first, which, in most ovens, is the top, to make the crust light, and then put in a cooler part to cook the meat thoroughly. N.B.—This pie could be made with veal or mutton instead of steak. Now it is finished.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Plodding. 123 MEAT PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Meat Plodding ” (a quart basin.) INGREDIENTS. j. d. 6 oz. of suet o 3I 1 lb. of flour o 1 teaspoonful of baking powder o oj Seasoning o oj lb. of buttock steak, iod.- per lb i 3 \ lb. bullock’s kidney, is. per lb o 6 2 3£ Time required about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pudding. 1. We take a large saucepan full of cold water, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take six ounces of suet and put it on a board. 3. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible, and sprinkle a little flour over the suet to prevent its sticking. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin, and add to it a teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful ofsalt and mix all well together. 5. We now add the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps of suet. 6. We then add by degrees about half a pint of cold water to make it into a paste; we should mix it well. 7. We put one teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of pepper on a plate, and mix them together. 8. We take one pound and a half of buttock steak, put it on a board, and cut it in slices about three inches long and two inches broad. N.B.—We should cut away all the skin. 9. We take half a pound of bullock's kidney, put it on a board, and cut it in slices.i 24 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We dip each slice of meat and kidney into the plate of seasoning. 11. We take a quart basin and grease it well inside with dripping. 12. We take a rolling pin and flour it; we also sprinkle a very little flour on the board to prevent the paste sticking. N.B.—In making paste we should always keep our hands well floured to prevent its sticking to them. 13. We take the paste out of the basin and put it on the board. 14. We cut off about one-third of the paste and lay it aside for the cover or top of the pudding. 15. We roll out the remainder of the paste to a round twice the size of the top of the basin ; it should be about one-third of an inch in thickness. 16. We line the basin inside smoothly with the paste. 17. We place the slices of meat and kidney in the basin, fitting them neatly in. 18. We pour in about one gill and a half of water, so as to fill the basin to within half an inch of the top. 19. We roll the remaining pieces of paste to a round, the size of the top of the basin, to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 20. We wet the edge of the paste in the basin with cold water, and cover over the top of the basin with the round oi paste. 21. We must join the paste together at the edge of the basin, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 22. We take a knife, flour it, and trim the edges of the paste neatly round. 23. We take a small pudding cloth) wring it out in warm water, and flour it. 24. We put this cloth over the top of the basin, tying it on tightly with a piece of string under the rim of the basin. 25. We tie the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the pudding.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Beef Steak Pudding. 125 Now it is finished. 26. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding and let it boil for two hours. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. N.B.—We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan, as the water in it boils away. 27. After that time we take the pudding out of the sauce- pan and take off the cloth. 28. We place a hot dish on the top of the pudding, turn the basin and dish quite over, and carefully raising the basin, we should leave the pudding in the middle of the dish unbroken. N.B.—This pudding might be made of beef skirt or Australian beef.126 National Training School for Cookery. PIG’S FRY. Average cost of this dish, i.e., “Poor Mails Goose ” (i quart dish)— INGREDIENTS. d. I lb. of pig’s fry . „ 6 2| lbs. of potatoes * 2J 1 onion Sage and seasoning Total Time required about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to cook Pig's Fry—“Poor Mans Goose." 1. We take two and a half pounds of potatoes, and put them in a basin of cold water. 2. We take a scrubbing brush and scrub and wash the potatoes well. 3. We put the potatoes into a saucepan of cold water. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 6. As soon as it boils we take the potatoes out of the water (N.B.—This is called par-boiling potatoes), we peel them, and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 6. We take one onion and peel it. 7. We take two or three sage-leaves and put them on a board. 8. We chop up the onion and sage together on the board with a sharp knife. 9. We take one pound of pig's fry and cut it in small pieces. 10. We take a quart pie-dish and grease the dish with dripping or fat. 11. We put a layer of sliced potatoes in the bottom of the pie-dish. 12. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and onion, pepper and salt, over the potatoes.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pig’s Fry. 127 Now it is finished. 13. We now put a layer of the pig's fry. 14. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and onion, pepper and salt, over the pig's fry. 15. Now we add another layer of sliced potatoes, and sprinkle them with a little of the chopped sage and onion, pepper and salt. 16. We put in another layer of pig's fry, and sprinkle the remainder of the chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt on the top. 17. We cover these layers with the rest of the sliced potatoes. 18. We now fill up the pie-dish with water for gravy. 19. We take the skin usually sent with the pig's fry and put it over the top of the pie-dish. 20. If the skin is not sent we must take a piece of whity- brown paper and grease it with some dripping or fat, and put that over the pie-dish instead. 21. We put the pie-dish into a moderate oven to bake for from three quarters of an hour to one hour.128 National Training School for Cookery. BOILED PIG’S HEAD (salted) WITH ONION SAUCE. Average cost of “ Pig’s Head” 5d. or 6d.per lb. INGREDIENTS. For “Brawn.” For “ Onion Sauce.” s. d. d. h a pig’s head i 3 3 onions 11 40 peppercorns \ 3 gills of milk • 2 blades of mace ( A dessertspoonful of flour . o\ 4 cloves 1 0 \ oz. of butter I 12 allspice / Pepper and salt j A bunch of herbs ) 2 large onions j 1 5 3 i Time required [after salting) for boiling pig's head about two hours ; for making into brawn, two hours. Now we will show you how to boil Pig's Head. 1. We take a pig's head, wash it thoroughly in plenty of tepid water. 2. We take out the brains and throw them away. 3. We cut out the little veins and all the splinters of bone. 4. We wash the head in all parts with plenty of salt, thoroughly cleansing it from blood. 5. We lay the head in pickle (see Pickle for Meat) for three days. 6. When the head is salted, we put it into a saucepan with cold water enough to cover it. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 8. When it boils we draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size and age of the pig. N.B.—Boiled pig’s head is eaten with boiled rabbit, or with veal, or with onion sauce. N.B.—If preferred thepig’s head can be made into brawn (see below). For making Onion Sauce, 9. We take three or four onions, peel them, and cut them in quarters.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pig's Head, 129 10. We put them into a saucepan with water enough U cover them. 11. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil until the onions are quite tender. 12. We then strain them off, throw the water away, put the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 13. We throw the onions into a saucepan with three gills (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk, put it on the fire, and let it come to the boil. 14. We put a dessertspoonfid of flour into a basin and mix it with half an ounce of butter into a paste with a knife 15. We stir this paste smoothly into the boiling milk and* onions, and continue to stir it until it boils. 16. We season the sauce with pepper and salt to taste, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm till required for use. 17. We take a grater and grate some bread crumbs on to a plate. 18. We put the plate in the oven or in a Dutch oven to brown the bread crumbs. 19. When the pig s head is sufficiently boiled we take it out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish. 20. We take out the half tongue, skin it, and put it back on the dish with the head. 21. We sprinkle the browned bread crumbs over the pig's head, and pour the onion sauce round it, or, if preferred, it may be served separately in a sauce boat. For making the pig's head into Brawn. 1. We salt and boil the pig's head in the same way as above from Note 1 to Note 8. 2. When the pig's head is sufficiently boiled we take it out of the saucepan and put it on a board. 3. We cut all the meat off the bones, and cut it into small pieces the shap^of dice ; we also cut up the ear and the tongue (the tongue should be previously skinned).130 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 4. We put the bones back into the saucepan with a quart of the liquor (in which the head was boiled), forty pepper- corns, two blades of mace, four cloves, and twelve allspice. 5. We also add a bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram, thyme, and two bay leaves tied tightly together. 6. We take two onions, peel them, cut them in quarters, and put them into the saucepan. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it come to the boil, we should remove the lid and let the liquor reduce for about half an hour. 8. After that time we strain the liquor into a basin. 9. We pour one pint and a half of the strained liquor back into the saucepan and put it on the fire. 10. We now put the pieces of meat into the liquor, season it with pepper (and salt if necessary) to taste, and let it come to the boil. 11. We take a basin or tin mould, rinse it in cold water. IS. We then pour the meat and the liquor together into the wet basin or tin, and stand it aside to get cold and set. 13. For serving we turn the brawn out of the basin on to a dish.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Pork Pie. 131 PORK PIE. Average cost of “Pork Pie * (1 lb.) INGREDIENTS. s. d. \ lb. lard o 3 1 lb. pork (either loin or leg) o 10 Seasoning o o| 1 lb. of flour o 1 egg o 1 1 4i Time required two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Pork Pie. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of lard and a quarter of a pint of cold water into rather a large saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. N.B.—We must watch it, as if it boils over it will catch fire. 3. We take onepound of lean pork (cut either from the loin or from the leg), put it on a board, and cut it up in pieces of about one inch square. 4. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 5. When the lard and water are quite boiling, we pour them into the middle of the flour and mix them well with a spoon. 6. When the paste is cool enough we should knead it well with our hands. N.B.—More water must not be added, as the paste is required to be rather stiff. 7. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a floured board. 8. We cut off a quarter of the paste, and the remainder we mould into the shape of a basin, pressing it inside with one hand and supporting it outside with the other. 9. We should shape it as evenly as possible, and it should be about one-third of an inch in thickness all round. 10. We should take a knife, flour it, and cut the top of the shape level all round.132 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 11. We dip the pieces of pork into cold water, then season them well with pepper and salt. 12. We should put these pieces inside the mould of paste as close together as possible. N.B.—The pie can be flavoured, if liked, with chopped sage, about a tea- spoonful sprinkled well amongst the pieces of pork. 13. We take the remainder of the paste and roll it out (with a floured rolling pin), and cut it to the size of the top of the mould and to about the thickness of one-third of an inch. 14. We take an egg and break it into two cups, dividing the yolk from the white. 15. We take a paste brush, dip it into the white of egg, and egg the edge of the mould of paste. 16. We take the piece of paste and put it over the top ot the pie, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 17. We cut little leaves out of the remaining paste, dip them in the white of the egg, and stick them on the top of the pie. 18. We wet the pie all over with the yolk of egg. 19. We put the pie in a moderate oven to bake for two hours.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sausage Rolls. 133 SAUSAGE ROLLS. Average cost of “ Sausage Rolls ” (about one dozen) made with cooked or uncooked meat. INGREDIENTS. a. \ lb. of cooked (or uncooked $d.) meat 3! 1 lb. flour • 2x \ lb. dripping 4. 1 teaspoonful baking powder \ Seasoning I § a shalot > 1 1 small onion A 4 sage leaves / 1 egg 1 Time required half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 1. We take half a pound of meat (cooked or uncooked'), put it on a board, take away all the fat, and mince the meat up as finely as possible. 2. We take the mince meat, put it in a basin, and season it well with pepper and salt. 3. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 4. We take half a shalot and one small onion, peel them, and chop them up upon the board. 5. We mix the chopped sage, shalot, and onion well into the mince meat with a spoon. 6. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 7. We add to it one teaspoonful of baking powder, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and half a pound of clarified dripping. 8. We rub the dripping well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We must mix it thoroughly and be careful not to leave any lumps. 9. We add enough water to the flour to make it into a stiff paste.134 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We flour the paste board. 11. We turn the paste out on the board. N.B.—We should divide the paste in two, so as not to handle it too much. IS. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each portion into a thin sheet, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We cut the paste into pieces about six inches square. 14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and cut them into squares. N.B.—There should be about one dozen squares of paste. 15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince meat and herbs into the centre of each square of paste. 16. We fold the paste round the meat, joining it smoothly down the centre, and pressing the ends of the paste together with our finger and thumb. 17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the sausage rolls on it. 18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly with a knife. 19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg, and paint over the tops of the rolls. 20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake for fifteen minutes if the meat is already cooked, but if raw meat is used, then half an hour is required. N.B.—We should look at them once or twice, and turn them if necessary, so that they shall be equally baked. 21. For serving we take the rolls off the tin and place them on a hot dish.135 Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sea Pie, SEA PIE. Average cost of a “ Sea Pie ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of buttock steak at lod. . 2 onions 1 small carrot \ a turnip Pepper and Salt f lb. of flour | lb. of suet 1 teaspoonful of baking powder s. d. x 8 6 I o o| O If | o 2 Time required about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a Sea Pie. 1. We put two pounds of buttock steak on a board, and cut it in slices with a sharp knife. 2. We take two onions, peel them, and slice them as thinly as possible. 3. We take a small carrot and half a turnip, wash them, scrape the carrot clean with a knife, peel the turnips, and cut them in thin slices. 4. We season the slices of meat with pepper and salt to taste. 5. We put the slices of meat in layers in a two quart saucepan, sprinkling a little of the sliced vegetables on each layer of the meat. 6. We pour in enough cold water just to cover the meat. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer. N.B.—During this time we make the crust. 8. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible. 9. We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet, to prevent it sticking to the board or knife. 10. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin,136 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished and mix into it half a saltspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 11. We now put in the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 12. We add sufficient cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 13. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 14. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to the size of the saucepan. 15. This quantity of paste will roll out to the size of a two quart saucepan, so that if a smaller saucepan is used less paste will be required. 16. We put this paste over the meat in the saucepan, and let it simmer gently for one hour and half. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 17. We must watch it, and be careful to pass a knife round the sides of the saucepan, or the paste will stick. N.B.—Sailors add sliced potatoes to the pie when they can get them. 18. For serving, we carefully remove the crust, turn the meat, vegetables, and gravy on to a hot dish, and place the crust over it.Lessons, on Cooking Meat.—Sheep's Head. 137 SHEEP’S HEAD. Average cost of “ Sheep's Head'd consisting of 1 quart of broth and 1 dish of boiled sheep's head, with vegetables or broivned sheep's head. INGREDIENTS, 1 sheep’s head Salt 4 peppercorns 2 turnips 1 carrot 1 onion J small head of celery 1 sprig of thyme 2 sprigs of parsley Toasted crusts of bread \ oz. of flour 1 oz. clarified dripping or \ oz. butter 1 4f j. d. .. x o } ° o\ .. 01 :: o °f .. 01 | 0 °2 . . OO^; . . O Oj . . O Oj Time required (after the sheep's head has keen soaked for 2 hours) one and a half hours. Now we will show you how to cook Sheep's Head. 1. We take a sheep's head (which has been previously chopped half way through by the butcher) and put it in a basin of warm water, with a dessertspoonful of salt. 2. We should wash the head thoroughly, carefully re- moving the brains (which should be put aside) and all the splinters of the bones. 3. We should wash away all the blood and matter from the passages of the nose, throat, and ears, and clean round the gums. N.B.—If this is not thoroughly done the sheep’s head will be spoiled. 4. We now put the sheep's head in a basin of salt and water, to soak for two hours. 5. After the head has been soaked, we take it out of the water and carefully cut the tongue out with a knife. 6. We tie the head together with a piece of string, to keep it in shape. 7. We put the head and the tongue in a large saucepan.138 National Training School for Cookery. 8. We pour in sufficient lukewarm water to cover the head. 9. We add a good saltspoonful of salt and 4 peppercorns. N.B.—If liked, one ounce of pearl barley or rice, previously washed, may be now added. 10. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil very gently for 1 hour. 11. We must watch it and skim it occasionally with a spoon, removing as much of the fat as possible. 12. We take two turnips, wash them in cold water, peel them, and cut them in quarters with a sharp knife. 13. We take a carrot, scrape it clean with a knife, and cut it in pieces. 14. We take a good-sized onion, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 15. We take half a small head of celery and two sprigs of parsley and wash them in cold water. 16. When the sheep's head has boiled for an hour we should add all these vegetables. 17. We also add one sprig of thyme. 18. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 19. Half an hour before the sheep's head is finished, we wash the brains well in cold water (removing all the skin). 20. We tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put them in the saucepan with the head, to boil for ten minutes. 21. We put one ounce of clarified dripping, or half an ounce of butter, into a small saucepan. 22. We put the saucepan on the fire to melt the drip- ping; and then add half an ounce of flour and mix them well together with a spoon. 23. We take one gill (a quarter of a pint) of broth from the saucepan in which the head is boiling, and add it by degrees to the sauce, stirring it as smoothly as possible until it boils and thickens. 24. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Sheep's Head. 139 25. When the brains have boiled for ten minutes we take them out of the saucepan, take them out of the muslin, and chop them up in small pieces with a knife. 26. We add the brains to the sauce. 27. When the sheep's head is sufficiently cooked we take it out of the saucepan, cut away the string, and place it on a warm dish. 28. We take the tongue, skin it carefully, and place it on the same dish. 29. We take out the turnips, put them in a basin, and mash them with a fork. 30. We take out the carrot and arrange it alternately with the mashed turnips round the sheep's head. 31. We take the brain sauce and pour it over the sheep's head. 32. We should pour the broth carefully into a basin, without the bread or vegetables. N.B.—Bread or vegetables should never be kept in broth, as they would turn it sour. 33. We put the basin of broth away until required for use. N.B.—All the fat should be removed from the broth before it is used. N.B.—When the broth is required for use, a few toasted crusts of bread might be added, and a little chopped parsley. N.B.—The fat from the broth should be melted down into dripping. N.B.—If the sheep’s head be preferred browned. 1. We proceed as above (see from Note 1 to Note 17). 2. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for one hour. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 3. We take a piece of stale bread and grate a tablespoon- ful of bread crumbs with a grater. 4. We mix with these crumbs a teaspoonful of parsley, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, chopped up finely. 5. When the head has simmered for one hour\ we take it out of the saucepan.Now it is finished. 140 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We cut the string round it, and lay it on a dish. 7. We sprinkle the bread crumbs and herbs over the heady and put a few tiny pieces of dripping on it. 8. We put the dish in the oven, or in front of the fire, for ten to fifteen minutes ; it will be then ready for serving. 9. We take the brains and wash them well in cold water (removing all the skin). 10. We tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put them in the saucepan of broth (in which the sheep's head was boiled) to boil for ten minutes. N.B.—For serving, the tongue should be skinned as above, and served separately with the brain sauce (see above from Note 21 to Note 27). 11. We proceed with the broth the same as above, from Note 32.Lessons on Cooking Ad eat.—Stewed Steak. 141 STEWED STEAK. Average cost for “ Stewing a Steak.” INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of rump steak 1 carrot 1 turnip 2 sticks of celery ( 1 onion j 1 oz. of butter 1 tablespoonful of flour Pepper and salt s. d. 1 4 o 1 o I o I O l| o Oj i 8£ Time required about one hour. Now we will show you how to Stew a Steak (either beef or rump steak will do, the latter is more tender). 1. We take one pound of rump steak, one and a half inch in thickness, and put it on a board. 2. We cut off all the skin and fat from the steak. 3. We take one carrot, one turnip, and a few celery leaves, and wash them well in cold water. 4. We take a sharp knife and scrape the carrot clean. 5. We take the turnip, cut it in half (as not all will be required), and peel off the outside skin. 6. We take a sharp knife and peel the carrot and turnip very thinly into ribbons, leaving just the centre part of each vegetable. 7. We take one onion, peel it, and put it on a board. 8. We shred the onion and celery. 9. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and we pu the steak in it to brown. 10. We put the onion and celery, and the insides of the carrot and turnip (left after peeling), into the stewpan with the steak. 11. We put the stewpan on the fire. 12. We must look occasionally at the steak, and when it142 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. is sufficiently browned on one side we must turn it care- fully over to brown the other. 13. When the steak is sufficiently browned on both sides, then put in the vegetables. 14. We take a basin and put in it a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and mix them together with a wooden spoon, and one pint of water or stock. 15. We stir them all well together into a smooth sauce. 16. We pour this sauce into the stewpan, with the steak and vegetables, and stir all together until it boils and thickens. 17. We let it gently simmer one hour. 18. We take the fat which we have cut off the steak and cut it into small pieces. 19. We put the pieces of fat on a tin dish. 20. We put the fat in the oven to cook till brown. N.B.—It is better for stewed steak to cook the fat separately as it keeps the gravy of the steak free from grease. 21. We take the thin pealings from the carrot and turnip, put them on a board and shred them finely with a sharp knife. 22. We put these shredded vegetables into a small sauce- pan with about a gill of cold water. 23. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil until the vegetables are quite tender; we must feel them with a fork. 24. When the steak is sufficiently stewed, we must put it on a hot dish. 25. We take a strainer and strain the gravy, in which the steak has been stewed, over the steak. 26. The stewed vegetables must be thrown away, as all the goodness is out of them. 27. We take the tin dish out of the oven, and place the pieces of fat about on the steak. 28. We take the boiled shredded vegetables and garnish the steak with them. N.B.—Any other vegetables can be used for garnishing, i.e., peas, French beans, asparagus, &c.Lessons on Cooking Meat.—Toad in the Hole. 143 Now it is finished. TOAD IN THE HOLE. Average cost of “ Toad in the Hole!' INGREDIENTS. s. d. 5 ozs. of flour o x 1 egg o x 1 pint of milk o 2 ij lbs. of meat (either beef or mutton) .. Seasoning 1 4 Time required about one hour and three quarters. Now we will show you how to make Toad in the Hole. 1. We put six ounces of flour into a basin, with half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We break one egg into the flour and stir in smoothly and by degrees one pint of milk. N.B.—We must be careful that it is not lumpy. 3. We should beat it up as much as possible, as it will make the batter lighter. 4. We take one pound of meat, put it on a board, and cut it in neat pieces. N.B.—Buttock steak, beef skirt, or any pieces of mutton might be used; for instance, the short bones• from the neck of mutton. Sausages or cold meat might very well be used. 5. We take a pie dish or a tin and grease it inside with clarified dripping. 6. We season the pieces of meat with pepper and salt, and place them in the greased dish. 7. We pour the baiter over the meat, and put the dish in the oven to bake for one hour. 8. After that time it is ready for serving.144 National Training School for Cookery. TRUSSING A FOWL FOR BOILING. Average cost of a “ Boiled Fowl ” and “ Egg Sauce." INGREDIENTS. i fowl i| oz. of butter Stock or water ■ i carrot i small onion A bouquet of herbs i oz. of flour J pint of milk Gill of cream, 4 5l Time required at out one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to prepare a Fowl and truss it for boiling. 1. We take a fowl that has been already plucked, and put it on a board. 2. We prepare it and clean it in the same way as described in “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting,” from Note I to Note 12. 3. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws, and the end of the legs of the fowl to the first joint. 4. We take a twist of paper or taper and light it. 5. We take the fowl up by its legs, and hold the lighted paper under it to singe off the little hairs. 6. We then hold the fowl up by its wings and singe the other end. N.B.—We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in any way. 7. We turn the fowl on its back with the tail towards us. 8. We put our hands through the incision (made for drawing the fowl), and pass two fingers round the inside of the leg, so as to loosen the outside skin. 9. We draw this outside skin right off the legs, and press the legs well into the sides of the fowl, forcing the breast up to give the fowl a good shape. j. d. ..36 .. o if | o 1 .. 02 } o .. 06Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Boiled Fowl. 145 10. We pull this outside skin and turn it neatly inside the fowl over the joints of the legs. 11. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 12. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. 13. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck towards us. 14. We take a trussing needle and thread it with fine twine. 15. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out on the other side through the other thigh. 16. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone, called the sidesman or stepmother’s wing, catching up the skin which folds over the incision, and out through the other little bone and wing. 17. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 18. We turn thz fowl over on its back, keeping the neck still towards us. 19. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing the fowl), and lift up the end of the breast bone. 20. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over one leg, back through the body close to the back bone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. 21. We take a piece of kitchen paper and butter it well. 22. We take this piece of buttered paper and wrap it well round the fowl. 23. We take a large saucepan half full of hot second white stock or water, and put it on the fire. N.B.—The reason why second white stock should be used is that the good' ness which comes from the fowl after boiling adds to the goodness of this stock, which can afterwards be used for soup. N.B.—If hot water be used, the goodness which comes from the fowl after boiling is only wasted, as it is not of sufficient strength to make the large quantity of water of any use. KT 46 National, Training School for Cookery. 24. When the water is quite boiling, we place the fowl in the saucepan with its breast downwards. 25. We also put into the saucepan one carroty which has been scraped, a small onion, which has been peeled, and a bouquet of herbs for flavouring. 26. The fowl will take from three-quarters of an hour to one hour to boil, according to its size. N.B.—We must not allow it to boil fast, only to simmer. The saucepan should be at the side of the fire. Now we must make the Egg Sauce to be served with the boiled fowl. 1. We take a small saucepan full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. When the water is quite boiling, we put in two eggs to boil for ten minutes. 3. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour. 4. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 5. We pour in half a pint of milk. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. * 7. We must then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire until required for use. 8. When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, we take them carefully out of the saucepan with a spoon. 9. We take the eggs and knock them against the edge of a basin to break off all the shell. 10. We take a small basin of cold water. 11. We cut the eggs in half and take out the yolks. . 12. We put the whites into cold water to prevent their turning yellow. 13. We take the whites of the eggs out of the water and cut them to the shape of small dice. 14. We add the pieces of white of egg to the sauce in the stewpan.Cooking Poultry.— Trussing Boiled Fowl. 147 Now it is finished. 15. We now add one gill of cream to the sauce. 16. We move the stewpan to the centre of the fire, and stir well till it boils again. N.B.—We must be careful in stirring not to break the pieces of egg. 17. When the fowl is sufficiently boiled we take .it out of the saucepan ; we take off the buttered paper, and place the fowl on a hot dish. 18. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all out of the fowl. 19. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce over the fowl. 20. We take a wire sieve with the hard boiled yolks of the eggs, place it over the fowl, and rub the yolks through on to the breast. N.B.—The neck, gizzard, liver, heart, and claws of the fowl (namely the Giblets), should be put aside, and when properly prepared can be used for soup (see “ Soups,” Lesson No. 6), or should be put in the stock pot. N.B.—To clean and prepare thz giblets for use. A. We take the gizzard, cut it very carefully with a knife down the centre, where there is a sort of seam (we must be sure only to cut the first or outer skin), and draw off the outer skin without breaking the inside, which should be thrown away. B. We take the outer skin of the gizzard, the heart, and liver, wash them well in water, and dry them in a cloth. C. We take the neck, cut off the head, which is of no use, draw the skin off the neck, and wash the latter well in water, so as to remove the blood and. any impurities. D. We put the claws and ends of legs in a basin of boiling water for some minutes, then take a knife, cut off the nails, and draw off the outer skin, which can be pulled off like a glove.148 National Training School for Cookery. TRUSSING A FOWL FOR ROASTING. Average cost of Roasting a Fowl Sauced and making "Bread INGREDIENTS. 1 fowl s. d. 6 x oz. of butter ix 1 penny roll 1 onion 4 I O-1,- \ pint of milk 5 peppercorns ) 1 Salt } 0 ok 1 tablespoonful of cream 3 ^ Time required, about three quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to prepare a Fowl and truss it for roasting. 1. We take a suitable fowl that has been already plucked, and put it on a board. 2. We turn the fowl on its breast, and make an incision of an inch long down the neck, three inches below the head. 3. We pass our thumb round this incision and loosen the skin. 4. We take a sharp knife and put it under the skiny and cut off the neck as near the body as possible. 5. We must be careful in cutting off the neck to leave a piece of skin to fold over on to the back of the neck and cover the opening. 6. We take out the crop which lies in the front of the neck. 7. Then with our finger we loosen the liver and the other parts at the breast end. 8. We must now turn the fowl round, and make an inci- sion at the vent, about one inch and a half wide. 9. We must put our hand through this incision into the body and draw out all the interiors carefully, so as not to mess the fowl.Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Roast Fowl. 149 10. We must be very careful not to break the gall bag,- or the liver will be spoiled. N.B.—We take the liver, heart, and gizzard, and put them in a basin of water, with about half a teaspoonful of salt; the other interiors should be thrown away. N.B.—We should look through the fowl from one end to the other and see it is perfectly cleared out. 11. We take a damp cloth and wipe out the inside of the fozvl to clean it thoroughly. N.B.—If the fowl is not quite fresh, we should use a little vinegar and water on the cloth we use for cleaning it, and then take a clean cloth and wipe it quite dry. 12. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws from the legs of the fowl. 13. We take a basin of boiling water, and hold the end of the legs of the fowl in the water for a minute or two. 14. We then take off the outside skin as far as to the first joint. 15. We take a twist of paper or a taper and light it. 16. We take the fowl up by its legs and hold the lighted paper under it to singe off the little hairs. 17. We then hold the fozvl up by its wings and singe the other end. N N.B.—We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in any way. 18. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. - 19. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. 20. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck towards us. 21. We take a trussing needle and thread it with fine twine. 22. We hold the legs up and press the thighs well into the sides of the fowl forcing the breast up to give the fowl a good shape. 23. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out on the other side- through the other thigh. N.B —If liked, a part of the gizzard and liver (when cleaned, see Note at the end of “ Trussing a Fowl for Boiling ’’) can be put into the wings of the fowl.150 National Training School for Cookery. 24. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone called the sidesman or stepmother’s wing, catching up the skin which folds over the incision, and out through the other little bone and wing. 25. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 26. We turn the fowl over on its back, keeping the neck still towards us. 27. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing the fowl) and lift up the end of the breast bone. 28. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over the end of one leg, back through the body close to the backbone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. N.B.'—If there is no gravy ready for serving with the roast fowl, we should prepare it now (see Note at the end). 29. (We now put the screen with the jack and dripping- pan before the fire. 30. We mpst make up the fire in the same manner as described in 'Roasting. N.B.—We do not require such a large fire as for roasting meat. 31. We ta^e the trussed fowl and pass the hook of the jack througlTjhe t)jack of the fowl\ and hang it up on the jack. ; ; N.B.—If the fire is very fierce, we should take a piece of whity brown paper, butteflftf, and tie it over the fowl so as to prevent it from burning. 33. We one ounce of butter in the dripping-pan to melt. 33. We use this melted butter to baste the fowl as the fowl is not very fat, there will not be much dripping t from it. 34. The fowl will take from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour to roast, according to its size. 35. We must baste the fowl frequently. N.B.—While the fowl is roasting, we should make the bread sauce (see below). N.B.—If liked, the roast fowl can be garnished with rolls of bacon (see the end of “Veal Cutlets,” Entries, Lesson No. 6).Cooking Poultry.—Trussing Roast Fowl. 151 Now it is finished. 36. When the fowl is quite done, we take it off the jack, and put it on a hot dish. 37. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all out of the fowl and take off the paper before serving. For making Bread Sauce. 1. We take a French penny roll, and cut it in half. 2. We pull out all the inside crumb, and put it on a plate. 3. We pull this crumb apart into small pieces. N.B.—If a French roll cannot be procured, bread crumbs can be used instead, about i| ounce. 4. We take a small onion, and peel it with an onion knife. 5. We take a small stewpan and put in it the peeled onion. 6. We pour in half a pint of milk. 7. We now put in the crumb of the roll. 8. We add five peppercorns, and salt to taste. 9. We stand the stewpan aside with the lid on, for a quarter of an hour, to soak the crumb. 10. After that time we put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the sauce smoothly with a wooden spoon, until it boils. 11. We now add a tablespoonful of cream, and stir the sauce until it just boils again. 12. Before serving the sauce, we must take out the onion, and pour the sauce into a sauce tureen. N.B.—The neck, gizzard, liver, and claws of the fowl, when properly pre- pared (see Note at the end of “Trussing a Fowl for Boiling”), can be used for soup, or gravy, to be served with the Roast Fowl. For making the gravy, we put the giblets into a saucepan with enough water to cover them (about § a pint), we also add half an onion (peeled), 6 peppercorns, and salt to taste. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes to the boil, we move it to the side to simmer while the fowl is roasting. For serving, we strain the gravy into a basin and colour it, if necessary, by stirring in a quarter of a teaspoonful of “Liebigs Extract,” or ten or twelve drops of caramel (see Noteat the end of “ Australian Meat, ” Lesson No. 2, “Brown Puree”), we then pour it in a sauce tureen, or round the fowl.152 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. t. CLEAR SOUP. Average cost for making “ Clear Soup? (to be served) with Vegetables or Savoury Custard (about 3 pints). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 quarts of stock 2 4! f lb. of gravy beef o 9 2 carrots o x 2 turnips o 1 ij leek o of 1 cabbage lettuce o 1 1 tablespoonful of young peas Salt 3 6f For “ Savoury Custard." 1 lump of sugar I 2 eggs j Butter o of o 2J Time required {the stock should be made the day before], about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make Clear Soup. 1. We take two quarts of stock (see Lesson on “Stock”); we must be careful to remove from it all fat. 2. We put the stock into a stewpan. 3. We take three quarters of a pound of gravy beef (from the shin of beef), put it on a board, and cut off all the fat and skin with a sharp knife. 4. We chop the beef up very fine. N.B.—The proportion of beef for clarifying stock is one pound to every five pounds of meat with which the stock is made. 5. We put the chopped gravy beef into the stewpan. 6. We take one carrot, one turnip, and one leek, and wash them well in cold water. 7. We take the vegetables out of the water and put them on a board.Lessons on Making Soup.—Clear Soup. 153 8. We take a sharp knife, and scrape the carrot quite clean, and slice it up. 9. We take the turnip, peel it, and cut it in small pieces. 10. We take the leek and cut off part of the long green leaves, and the little straggling roots, and chop up the remainder finely. 11. We put all these vegetables into the stewpan, and stir them all well with an iron spoon, until they are well mixed with the beef and stock. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the contents until it boils. 13. We now take a large spoon and skim it carefully. 14. We must stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes. 15. We take a clean soup cloth and fix it on the soup stand. 16. We take a large basin and place it below the cloth. 17. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the contents carefully into the cloth, and let it all pass into the basin. N.B.—The chopped gravy beef acts as a filter to the soup. 18. After the soup has all passed through, we remove the basin and put a clean one in its place. 19. We take a soup ladle and pour a little of the soup (at a time) over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass through very slowly. N.B.—We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped beef, which settles at the bottom of the cloth. N.B.—If savotiry custard should be preferred in the soup instead of shredded vegetables, see No. 31. 20. We take a small carrot, turnip, half a leek, cabbage lettuce, and a tablespoonful of young peas, and wash them in cold water. 21. We put the vegetables on a board, scrape the carrot clean, and peel the turnip with a sharp knife, and cut off all the outside leaves of the lettuce and the long green leaves of the leek.154 National Training School for Cookery. 22. We must shred the carrot, turnip, /*&£ and cabbage lettuce very finely in equal lengths. 23. We put the shredded carrot, turnip, and into a small saucdjpan of cold water with 7/#^ # saltspoonful of salt. 24. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it just come to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch the vegetables. 25. We take the saucepan off the fire and strain the water from the vegetables. 26. We take a stewpan, and put in the blanched vege- tables and cabbage lettuce and peas ; we add a lump of sugar and half a pint of the clear soup. 27. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil fast, and reduce the soup to a glaze over the vegetables. 28. We take the basin of strained soup and pour the soup on the vegetables in the stewpan, and let it just boil. 29. We then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it boil gently for half an hour. 30. For serving we pour the soup into a hot soup tureen. For Savoury Custard. 31. We take the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and put them in a small basin. 32. We add one gill of the clear soup, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. 33. We whisk up the eggs and the stock well together. 34. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 35. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 36. We take a piece of whity-brown paper and butter it. 37. We put this buttered paper over the top of the gallipot and tie it on with a piece of string. 38. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire. 39. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little gallipot in it. N.B.—The water must not quite reach the paper with which the gallipot is covered.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Soup.—Clear Soup. 155 40. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for a quarter of an- hour. N.B.—It must not boil or the custard will be spoiled. 41. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take off the buttered paper, and turn the custard out on to a plate to cool. 42. We cut the custard into small pieces the shape of diamonds. 43. Just before serving, we pour the soup into the hot tureen, and add the savoury custard to the soup.156 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 2. TAPIOCA CREAM. Average cost of “ Tapioca Cream ” (about 1 pint), INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of white stock 1 oz. of tapioca, Yolks of 2 eggs o 1 O 2 2 tablespoonsful of cream or good milk Pepper and salt Time requiredfor making (the stock should le made the day 'before'), about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Tapioca Cream. 1. We take one pint of white stock (see “Lesson on Stock,0 and pour it in a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 3. We take one ounce of prepared crushed tapioca. 4. When the white stock boils, we stir in gradually the tapioca. 5. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it all simmer until the tapioca is quite clear. 6. Now we must prepare the liaison. 7. We put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, and add to them two tablespoonsful of cream or good milk. 8. We just stir it with a wooden spoon, and then pour the mixture through a strainer into another basin. 9. We now take the stewpan with the white stock, off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper or wooden trivet on the table. 10. When the stock is cooled a little we add by degrees two or three tablespoonsful of it to the liaison, stirring well all the time. N.R.—We must be careful that the eggs do not curdle.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Soup.—Tapioca Cream. 157 11. We now add this mixture to the remainder of the stock in the stewpan and stir well. 12. We add pepper and salt to the soup according to taste. 13. We place the stewpan of soup on the fire to warm before serving. N.B.—It must not boil. For serving we pour it into a hot soup tureen.158 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 3. BONNE FEMME SOUP. Average cost of “Bonne Femme Soup ” (one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. . d. 2 lettuces o 2 2 leaves of sorrel o 1 4 sprigs of tarragon o 1 4 sprigs of chervil o 1 | a cucumber o 2 \ oz. of butter o of Salt 1 * 1 saltspoonful of sugar / 0 °5 ij pint of white stock o io| The yolks of 3 eggs o 3 1 gill of cream or milk , o 6 The crust of a French roll o 1 2 4i Time required, about half an hour. (The stock should be made the day before.) Now we will show you how to make Bonne Femme Soup.. 1. We take two lettuces, two leaves of sorrel, four sprigs of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil, and wash them well in cold water. 2. We take these vegetables and herbs out of the water, put them upon a board, and shred them finely. 3. We take a cucumber and cut it in half. 4. We peel half the cucumber, and cut it up in thin slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. 5. We put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 6. We place all the shredded vegetables and herbs in the stewpan to sweat for five minutes. 7. We sprinkle over them half a saltspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of castor sugar. 8. We must watch it occasionally, as the vegetables must not burn or in any way discolour.L essons on Making Soup. —Bonne Femme Soup. 159 9. We take a pint and a half of white stock (see “ Lesson on Stock ”) and put it in another saucepan. 10. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 11. We must now make a “ liaison ” 12. We take the yolks of three eggs, put them in a basin, and beat them well. 13. We stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream or milk. 14. When the stock is quite boiling, we pour it into the stewpan with the vegetables, and let all boil gently for ten minutes until the vegetables are quite tender. 15. After that time we take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 16. We take a French roll and cut off all the crust. 17. We put the crust on a tin, and put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two. 18. When the stock has cooled a little, we stir in the liaison, straining it through a hair-sieve into the stewpan. 19. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire to keep warm until required for use. N.B.—We must not let it boil as, now the “ liaison” is added, it would curdle. 20. We take the tin out of the oven and turn the dried critst on to a board. 21. We cut this crust up into small pieces, and in any fancy shape, according to taste. 22. We place these pieces of crust in a hot soup tureen and pour the soup over them. Now it is finished.160 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 4. PUREE OF POTATOES. Average cost for making a “ Puree of Potatoes ” (about 1 pint and a half.) INGREDIENTS. x lb. of potatoes 1 small onion 2 leaves of celery x oz. of butter i| pint of white stock Salt 1 gill of cream Fried bread s. d. o 1 o oh o 1 O l| O 10k o 6 1 io£ Time required (the stock should be made the day before), about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Puree of Potatoes. 1. We take one pound of potatoes, put them in a basin of cold water and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 2. We take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes, and cut them in thin slices. 3. We take a small onion, wash, it well in cold water, and peel it. 4. We take two leaves of celery and wash them. 5. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter. 6. We now add the sliced potatoes, the onion, and the celery. 7. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables sweat for five minutes; we must take care that they do not discolour. 8. We pour into the stewpan one pint of white stock and stir frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent it from burning.Lessons on Making Soup.—Purie of Potatoes. 161 9. We let it boil gently till the vegetables are quite cooked. 10. We put half a pint of white stock into a stewpan and put it on the fire to heat. 11. We now place a tammy-sieve over a basin and pass the contents of the stewpan through the sieve with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees the half pint of hot white stock, which will enable it to pass through more easily. 12. We take the stewpan and wash it out. 13. We pour the Puree back into the stewpan. 14. We add salt according to taste, and one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon until it boils. 15. For serving we pour it into a hot soup tureen. N.B.—Fried bread cut in the shape of dice should be served with the pur^C (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 8, from Note 13 to 17). Now it is finished. L162 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 5. SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. Average cost of “ Spring Vegetable Soup ” (two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of the shin of beef 2 lbs. of the knuckle of veal Salt 2 young carrots 1 young turnip 1 leek \ of a head of celery 1 cauliflower 1 gill of peas | of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .. j. d. 1 o 1 o O I o o£ O Oj O I o 4 O 3 2 10 Time required for making, about five hours. Now we will show you how to make two quarts of Spring Vegetable Soup. 1. We take two pounds of shin of beef , and two pounds of knuckle of veal\ and put them on a board. 2. We must cut off all the meat from the bone with a sharp knife. 3. We cut off all the fat from the meat (the fat we put aside for other purposes). 4. We take a chopper and break the bones in halves. 6. We take out all the marrow inside the bones, and put it aside for other uses. N.B.—If the fat and marrow were to go into the soup they would make it greasy. 6. We take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the meat and boties into it. 7. We pour in five pints of cold water. 8. We put in a teaspootifid of salt. This will assist the scum to rise.L essons on Making Soup. —Spring Vegetable Soup. 163 9. We put the stockpot on the fire, with the lid on, and let it come to the boil quickly. 10. We take a spoon and remove all the scum as it rises. 11. We now draw the stockpot rather to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for five hours. 12. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in slices. 13. We take one young turnip, peel it, and cut it in slices. 14. We take half a head of celery and one leek, wash them well in cold water, and cut them in squares with a knife. 15. We take one caidiflower, wash it in cold water, and put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoonful of salt, for two or three minutes. 16. We then take the caidiflower out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a cloth. 17. We take a knife and cut off all the green leaves and the stalk from the caidiflower, and pull the flower into sprigs. 18. We must watch and skim the soup occasionally, and we should add a little cold water to make the scum rise. 19. One hour before serving the soup we should add the vegetables. 20. We must first put in the sliced carrots, and the cut up celery and leek. (These vegetables take the longest to boil.) 21. In half an hour we should add the sliced turnips, and fifteen minutes after that the cut up flower of the cauli- flozoer. 22. We take a saucepan full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 23. When the water is quite boiling, we put in one gill of shelled peas\ a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda, and let it boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. N.B.--The cover should be off the saucepan. L 2Now it is finished. 164 National Training School for Cookery. 24. After that time we should feel the peas, and if they are quite soft we take them out of the saucepan and drain them in a cullender. 25. For serving, we put the boiled peas into a hot soup tureen, and ladle the soup and the other vegetables from the stockpot out into the tureen.Lessons on Making Soup.—Gib let Soup. 165 SOUPS. Lesson No. 6. GIBLET SOUP. Average cost of “ Giblet Soup ” (about three pints). INGREDIENTS. 2 sets of giblets 5 of a head of celery. 1 carrot 1 turnip 2 small onions 2 cloves \ 1 blade of mace f A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, lemon- i thyme, basil, marjoram and bay leaf .. ) 2 quarts of second white stock 1J oz. of clarified butter 1 oz. of flour | a pint of Madeira 30 drops of lemon juice A few grains of Cayenne pepper ) Salt / s. d. 2 0 O X O o| O oi O °3 O I I O O °k I 8 O 1 O ok 5 5 [Stock made the day before']. Time required, about three hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Giblet Soup. 1. We take two sets of goose or four of ducks giblets, scald and skin the claws, ends of legs, &c., and wash them clean in cold water (see Note for w Cleaning Giblets” at the end of “ Trussing a Fowl for Boiling”). 2. We should put them into boiling water to blanch them, for five minutes. 3. We then lay them in a basin of cold water, and wash and scrape them clean. 4. We take them out of the water and drain them. 5. We take a knife and cut the giblets in pieces to about one and a half inch in length. 6. We put the pieces of giblet into a stewpan. 7. We take a quarter of a head of celery and wash it well in cold water.166 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 8. We take one carrot, wash it in cold water, and scrape it clean with a knife. 9. We take one turnip and two small onions, wash them in cold water and peel them. 10. We add these vegetables to the giblets in the stewpan. 11. We also put in two cloves, one blade of mace, and a bouquet garni, consisting of parsley, one sprig of thyme, lemon-thyme, basil, marjoram, and one bay-leaf, all tied tightly together. 12. We pour in two quarts of second white stock. 13. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours ; we must skim it occasionally. 14. After that time, we take out the best pieces of the giblets, and trim them neatly. 16. We put these pieces aside until required for use. 16. We leave the stewpan on the fire to boil for half an hour. 17. We put an ounce and a half of clarified butter, and one ounce of flour into a stewpan. 18. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let the flour and butter fry for a few minutes, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 19. We now add the stock and stir it well until it boils. 20. We must now remove the stewpan to the*side of the fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes (the cover of the saucepan should be only half on). 21. After that time, we take a spoon and carefully skim off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the soup. 22. We now strain the soiip into a basin, add to it half a pint of Madeira, thirty drops of lemon juice, a few grains (just enough to cover thinly a threepenny piece) of Cayenne pepper, and salt according to taste. 23. For serving, we pour the soup into a hot soup tureen, and add to it the pieces of giblet that were put aside. N.B.—If the wine is disliked, it may be omitted.Lessons on Making Soup.—Mock Turtle Soup. 167 SOUPS. Lesson No. 7. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Average cost of “ Mock Turtle Soup ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. s. | a calf’s head 5 3 oz. of butter ( % a tablespoonful of salt J 0 £ lb. of lean ham o 1 shalot | 1 clove of garlic ) 0 6 mushrooms o 1 carrot \ j head of celery 1 leek *2, a l uj, 111 £ Bouquet garni (i. e. sprig of thyme, mar- ) joram, parsley, and a bay leaf) „„ 1 blade of mace 6 cloves 3 oz. of flour J 2 wine glasses of sherry o The juice of £ a lemon o 1 dozen forcemeat balls (see “Entries,’ Lesson No. 8) o o 4 7 5f Time required, about six hours. N.B.—If the soup is required to be made in one day, the stock should be made early in the morning, so as to give time for it to get cold to have the fat removed. Now we will show you how to make Mock Turtle Soup. 1. We take half a calf s head, and wash it well in water, to remove all blood and impurities. 2. We cut all the flesh from the bones, and tie the flesh up in a very clean cloth or napkin. 3. We put it in a large stewpan with the bones and four quarts of cold water, and half a tablespoonful of salt. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it come to the boil.168 National Training School for Cookery. 5. As soon as it boils, we should skim it carefully with a spoon, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire to stew gently for three hours. N.B.—We should watch it and skim it occasionally. 6. After that time we take out the calf s head, and pour the stock through a strainer into a basin. 7. We stand the basin of stock aside to get cold, when we should carefully remove every particle of fat from the top of the stock. 8. We must now, make some forcemeat (see “ Beef Olives,” Entrees, Lesson No. 8, from Note 4 to Note 12), and make it up into little balls, about one dozen. 9. We take six mushrooms (cut off the end of the stalks), one onion, and half a turnip, wash them, peel them, and cut them up in slices. 10. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it in slices. 11. We take half a head of celery, and one leek, wash them, cut off the long green leaves (to be thrown away), and cut them in slices. 12. We put a quarter of a pound of lean ham on a board, and cut it up in small pieces. 13. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 14. We add the ham and all the sliced vegetables to the . butter in the stewpan. 16. We also add one shalot (peeled), one clove of garlicy one blade of macey six cloves, and a bouquet garni (consisting of a sprig of thymey marjoramy parsley, and a bay leafy tied tightly together). 16. We let all these vegetables and herbs, &c., fry in the butter for ten minutes. We must stir them occasionally. 17. After that time we add three ounces of floury and stir well. 18. We now add the stock and stir it until it boils, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for about ten minutes.Lessons on Making Soup.—Mock Turtle Soup. 169 Now it is finished. 19. We must then take a spoon and remove every particle of scum. 20. We now strain the soup into another stewpan. 21. We take the calf's head out of the cloth, and cut it up in small and neat pieces. 22. We add the pieces of calf's head to the soup, also two wine glasses of sherry, the dozen forcemeat balls, and squeeze in through a strainer the juice of half a lemon. 23. We let the soup just come to the boil, and then pour it in a hot soup tureen for serving.£ 70 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 8. POT-AU-FEU OR SOUP. And use of Meat from which the Soup has been made. Average cost of “ Pot-au-feu',' consisting of about five quarts of soup, and a dish of meat with vegetables. INGREDIENTS. s. d. 4 lbs. of beef, or 4 lbs. of the meat off the ox cheek 2 o Sago or tapioca for soup o o| \ oz. salt, 2 turnips .... f o 1 2 carrots o 1 2 leeks o 1 1 parsnip o 1 1 small head of celery o 2 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley o o| 1 cabbage o 1 1 bay-leaf, thyme and marjoram, and 1 onion, stuck with 3 cloves o 1 2 9 Time required, aboutfour hours. Now we will show you how to make Pot-au-feu. 1. We put six quarts of water in a large pot. 2. We take four pounds of the sticking piece of beef \ or four pounds of the meat off the ox cheek, without any bone, tie it up firmly into a shape with a piece of string, and put it into the pot. 3. We put the pot on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put in half an ounce of salt, and then move the pot to the side of the fire to simmer. 5. We take two carrots, two leeks, two turnips, one parsnip, one small head of celery, and wash them well in cold water. 6. We scrape the carrots and the parsnip, and cut them in quarters with a knife.Lessons on Making Soup.—Pot-au-Feu or Soitp. 17 r 7. We take the leeks and cut off the long green leaves, as only the white part is required. 8. We take the head of celery and cut off the green tops of the leaves. 9. We tie the leeks, the celery, and the parsnip and carrot together with a piece of string. 10. We take a cabbage, cut it in two, and wash it thoroughly in cold water* and tie it firmly together with string. 11. We should skim the Pot-an-feu occasionally with a spoon. 12. When the Pot-an-feu has boiled very gently for one hour, we add to it all the vegetables, except the cabbage. 13. We take one bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, and tie them together with a piece of string. 14. We put these herbs into the pot. 15. We take one onion, peel it, and stick three cloves in it. 16. We put the onion into the pot. 17. When the vegetables have been two hours in the pot we* put in the cabbage. 18. When the contents of the pot have simmered gently for four hours, we take out the meat and put it on a hot dish. 19. We garnish the meat with the carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and pour over it about half a pint of the liquor for gravy. 20. We take out the cabbage and serve it in a hot vege- table dish. 21. We strain the liquor through a cullender or cloth into a basin, and put it by to cool. 22. We do not remove the fat until the liquor is required for use; it keeps the air from it. To make a soup of the liquor. 23. We put two quarts of the liquor in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil.172 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 24. We take two ounces of crushed tapioca or small sagaf and when the liquor boils we sprinkle in thz tapioca or sago, and let it boil for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 25. We then pour it into a soup-tureen, and it is ready for use. N.B.—If liked, Beef a-la-mode, or rissoles (see "Cooked Meat,” Lesson No. 6), can be made with the meat from thz pot-au-feu. For “ Beef a-la-mode? 1. We put two ounces of dripping into a saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We then stir in one tablespoonful of flour, 3. We take one pound and a half of the meat and cut it in neat pieces. 4. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan. 5. When it comes to the boil we turn over the slices of meat and pour in half a pint of cold water. 6. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean and cut it in slices. 7. We put the carrot into the saucepan ; we also add a bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram and thyme, and a bay-leaf, tied tightly together. 8. We let it just come to the boil and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for three hours. 9. We should watch it and stir it occasionally. 10. For serving, we turn the meat on to a hot dish, and place the carrot on the top of the meat.Making Soup.—Dr. Kitcheners Broth. 173 Now it is finished. SOUPS. Lesson No. 9. DR. KITCHENER’S BROTH. Average cost of “ Dr. Kitchener's Broth ” (about 5 quarts). INGREDIENTS. d. 4 oz. of Scotch barley i 4 oz. of sliced onions i 2 oz. of dripping i 3 oz. of bacon il- 4 oz. of oatmeal ) x Pepper and salt j 5 quarts of liquor * Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make Dr. Kitchener s Broth. 1. We take four ounces of Scotch barley, wash it well, and let it soak in a basin of cold water for two hours. 2. We put five quarts of liquor into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take tzvo or three onions, peel them, and cut them in slices. (There should be about four ounces) 4. We drain off the barley and put it and the onions into the liquor, and let it boil gently for one hour. 5. We put three ounces of bacon into another saucepan with two ounces of clarified dripping. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire to fry the bacon brown. 7. We then add by degrees four ounces of oatmeal stirring it well until it is a paste. 8. We now stir in by degrees the broth, and season it with pepper and salt according to taste. 9. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for at least half an hour. 10. For serving we pour the broth into a hot soup tureen or basin.174 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SOUPS. Lesson No. to. CROWDIE. Average cost of “ Crotvdie” or “Scotch Broth}' made with liquor from boiled meat. INGREDIENTS. 2 gallons of liquor from moat | pint of oatmeal 2 onions Salt and pepper Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Crow die, or Scotch Broth. 1. We take two gallons of any meat liquor, either salt or freshy remove all the fat from it, and put it into a saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 3. We take half a pint of oatmeal, put it in a basin, and mix it into a smooth paste, with about a gill (a quarter of a pint) of the liquor. N.B.—Half a pint of oatmeal is sufficient to thicken two gallons of liquor. 4. We take two onions, peel them, put them on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible. 5. We stir the chopped onions into the paste, and add salt and pepper to taste. N.B.—If salt liquor is used, salt should not be added. 6. When the liquor in the saucepan is quite boiling, we stir in the paste smoothly. 7. We let it boil for twenty minutes; we should stir it occasionally; it must not get lumpy. 8. For serving, we,pour it into a soup tureen or basin.Lessons on Making Soup.—Milk Soup. 175 SOUPS. Lesson No. ii. MILK SOUP. Average cost of “ Milk Soup ” (about two quarts). d. .. 2 .. 1 .. 2 } «* .. 2 .. ik 8| Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Milk Soup. 1. We put two quarts of water into a large saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take four large potatoes, wash and scrub them clean in cold water, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 3. We take two leeks, cut off the green tops of the leavesy wash them well in cold water, and cut them up. N.B.—Onions can be used instead of leeks, only they would give a stronger flavour. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put in the potatoes and leeks. 5. We put in two ounces of butter, a quarter of an ounce of salty and pepper to taste. 6. We let it boil till done to a mash. 7. We then strain off the soup through the cullender. 8. We rub the vegetables through the cullender with a wooden spoon. 9. We return the pulp and the soup to the saucepan, add one pint of milk to it, and put it on the fire to boil. INGREDIENTS. 4 potatoes 2 leeks or onions 2 oz. butter £ oz. salt Pepper 1 pint of milk 3 tablespoonsful of tapioca176 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. When it boils we sprinkle in by degrees three table- spoonsful of crushed tapioca, stirring it well the whole time. 11. We let it boil gently fifteen minutes. 12. For serving, we pour the soup in a hot tureen.Lessons on Making Soup.—Cabbage Soup. 177 SOUPS. Lesson No. 12. CABBAGE SOUP. Average cost of making “ Cabbage Soup ” (about one quart and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 cabbage 2 2 oz. butter 2^ f of a pint of milk 2 Pepper and salt \ . A slice of bread j 2 Time reqtiired, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Cabbage Soup. 1. We put three pmts of water into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take a good sized cabbage, wash it well in cold water, and trim off the outside dead leaves. 3. We cut the cabbage up, as we cut a lettuce up for a salad, but not into small pieces. 4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we put in the cabbage. 5. We also add two ounces of butter, and pepper and salt for seasoning, and let it boil for one hour. 6. After that time we pour in three quarters of a pint of milk, and let it boil up. 7. We take a slice of bread, stick it on a toasting fork, and toast it slightly on both sides in front of the fire. 8. We cut the toasted bread up in pieces, the size of dice, and put them into a hot soup tureen or basin. 9. We pour the cabbage soup on to the bread in the soup tureen, and it is ready for serving. Now it is finished. M178 National Training School for Cookery. SOUPS. Lesson No. 13. PEA SOUP. Average cost of “Pea Soup” (about 2 quarts). INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of split peas 2. onions 1 turnip I carrot 1 head of celery Teaspoonful of salt J a teaspoonful of pepper Cooked or uncooked bones d. 5 r 2 o* 2 Nl Time required [after the peas have been soaked all night), about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Pea Soup. 1. We put a quart of split peas into a basin with cold water to cover, them, and let them soak for twelve hours. N.B.—This should be done over night. 2. We put two quarts of cold water and the split peas into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. N.B.,—If there is any liquor from boiled meat it would of course be better than water for the soup. 3. We take two onions and one turnip, wash them in cold water, peel them, and cut them in halves. 4. We take one carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with a knife. 5. We take one head of celery, cut off the ends of the root, and wash it well in cold water. 6. When the water in the saucepan is boiling we put in all the vegetables. 7. We add twopenny worth of cooked or uncooked bones, and season it with one teaspoonful of salt and half a tea- spoonful of ground pepper. N.B.—If some liquor (in which meat or pork has been boiled) is used the addition of bones will not then be necessary.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Soup.—Pea Soup. 179 8. We let it all boil slowly for two hours, and we must watch it and skim it occasionally. 9. After that time we take the bones out of the saucepan. 10. We place a cullender or wire sieve over a basin. 11. We pour the contents of the saucepan into the cullender, and rub them through into the basin with a wooden spoon. 12. The pea soup is then ready for serving. 13. Powdered (dried) mbit, and toasted bread’ cut to the shape of dice, should be handed with the soup, either put in, or served separately on plates.180 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SOUPS. Lesson No. 14. GERMAN PEA SOUP. Average cost of “ German Pea Soup ” (about three pints) made without Meat. INGREDIENTS. 5 of a stick of German pea soup sausage (to be bought at 8d. the stick) 2d. 3 pints of water Time, required, about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Pea Soup from the German pea soup sausage. 1. We put three pints of warm water into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take a quarter of a stick of German pea soup sausage, and scrape it into a basin. 3. We add to it a very little warm water, let it soak, and then mix it into a smooth paste. N.B.—We must be very careful that there are no lumps in the paste. 4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we should stir the paste in smoothly. 5. It is now ready for use and should be poured into a hot soup tureen. N.B.—If the soup is preferred thinner, more water might be added. N.B.—A dessert-spoonful of chopped mint might be added to the soup, if the flavour is liked.Lessons on Making Soup.—-Macaroni Soup. 181 SOUPS. Lesson No. 15. MACARONI SOUP. Average cost of “ Macaroni Soup ” made from Bones (about 3 pints). INGREDIENTS. d. Bones (if bought) 2 1 tablespoonful of salt and peppercorns .... 1 L 1 good-sized turnip and 4 leeks J T'z 2 carrots x 4 onions, 2 cloves, and a blade of mace 2 A bunch of herbs, i.e. marjoram, thyme, lemon ) • thyme, and parsley J z | lb. of macaroni 8£ Time required, about two and a half hours. Now we will show you how to make Soup from Bones. 1. We take the bones and cut off all the meat that can be used. N.B.—Cooked or uncooked bones can be used. 2. We break up the bones in pieces and put them into a saucepan, with cold water enough to cover them, and one quart more. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When it just boils, we put in a tablespoonful of salt, to help the scum to rise. 5. We take one good-sized turnip, peel it, and cut it in quarters. N.B.—When turnips are used only for flavouring, they can be peeled thinner than if for eating. 6. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them, and cut them in quarters ; we take four leeks, wash them, and shred them up finely. N.B.—As these vegetables are prepared, they should be thrown into cold water to keep them fresh.182 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 7. We take four onions, peel them, and stick tzvo cloves fnto the onions. N.B.—The outer skins of the onions can be put into a saucepan by the side of the fire to brown; when browned, they are useful for colouring gravies and soups. 8. We should skim the soup well and then put in the vegetables ; we also add a blade of mace and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. 9. We must move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. 10. We should raise the lid slightly to let out the steam. N.B.—The soup can be thickened with macaroni, vermicelli, barley or rice. 11. If the soup is thickened with macaroniy we take a quarter of a pound of macaroni and wash it well in two or three waters. 12. We put the macaroni into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and sprinkle a little salt over it. 13. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil until the macaroni is quite tender ; it will take about half an hour. 14. We should feel the macaroni with our fingers to see that it is quite soft and tender. 15. When it is sufficiently boiled, we strain the water off and pour some cold water on it, and wash the macaroni again. 16. We put the macaroni on a board, and cut it into small pieces about a quarter of an inch in length, it is then ready to be put into the soup. N.B.—If barley is used instead of macaroni, it will take a much longer time to boil, but if vermicelli is used, it lakes a very short time to boil. 17. When the soup is ready for use, we should put the macaroni into a soup tureen and strain the hot soup over it. N.B.—It is better to boil macaroni separately as the first water is not clean.Lessons on Making Soup.—Stock. 183 STOCK. Average cost of brow?i or white “ Stock ” for soup (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal and 2 lbs of beef 4 young carrots or 2 old ones 1 turnip 1 onion 1 leek Half a head of celery Salt Time reqtiired, about five hours. Now we will show you how to make Stock fof soup. It should be made the day before it is required for use. 1. We take four pounds of shin of beef and put it on a board. 2. We must cut off all the meat from the bone with a sharp knife. 3. We cut off all the fat from the meat. (The fat we put aside for other purposes.) 4. We take a chopper and break the bone in half. 5. We take out all the marrow inside the bone, and put it aside for other uses. N.B.—If the fat and marrow were to go into the stock it would make it greasy. 6. We take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the 77ieat and bone into it. 7. We pour in five pints of cold water. N.B.—One pint of water is allowed for each pound of meat and one pint over. 8. We put in half a teaspoonfd of salt. This will assist the scum to rise. 9. We put the stockpot on the fire with the lid Oil, and let it come to the boil quickly. s. d. 2 o o 2 o o| o o| o o| O I 2 43184 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We take four young carrots, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them in pieces. 11. We take one turnip and one onion, peel them and cut them in quarters. 12. We take a leek and half a head of celery and wash them well in cold water. 13. We take a spoon and remove the scum from the stock as it rises. 14. Now we put in all the vegetables, and let it simmer gently for five hours. 15. We must watch and skim it occasionally, and we should add a little cold water to make the scum rise. 16. We take a clean cloth and put it over a good-sized basin. 17. We put a hair-sieve on the top of the cloth over the basin. 18. When the stock has been simmering for five hours we take the stockpot off the fire. 19. We pour the contents into the sieve, which contains the meat, bone, and vegetables ; and the cloth very effectually strains the stock. N.B.—The meat and bone can be used again for second stock, with the addition of fresh vegetables and water. 20. We take the basin (into which the stock has been strained), and put it in a cool place till the next day, when it will be a stiff jelly. 21. When this stock jelly is required for use, we must take off the fat from the top with a spoon. 22. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and wipe over the top of the jelly so as to remove every particle of fat. 23. Now we must take a clean dry cloth and wipe the top of the jelly dry. N.B.—For some soups, vegetable soups, or purdes, white stock is required. White stock is made in the same way, only with veal instead of beef, and it can also be made of veal and beef mixed, or rabbit and beef, but veal alone is considered best.Lessons on Making Soup.— Vegetable Stock. 185 VEGETABLE STOCK. Average cost of “ Vegetable Stock ” (about two quarts). INGREDIENTS. a. 1 cabbage i 3 large or 6 small onions 2 carrots i 1 turnip o| 2 oz. of butter 2^ 3 cloves 30 peppercorns A bunch of herbs (thyme, marjoram, and a o£ bay-leaf) Salt ~k Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Vegetable Stock. 1. We take one cabbage, wash it well in cold water, and cut it in quarters. 2. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, and cut them in quarters. 3. We take one turnip, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 4. We take three large or six small onions, and wash them clean (the skins are to be left on). 5. We put all these vegetables into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter. 6. We also add a bunch of herbs (namely, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf) tied tightly together, three cloves and thirty peppercorns. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let the vegetables and herbs sweat in the butter for ten minutes. We must stir them and not let them burn. 8. We now pour in three quarts of cold water, and add salt according to taste. 9. When the water boils we move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. We must watch it and skim it occasionally.186 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and it is ready for use. It is now reduced to two quarts and half a pint. N.B.—This stock can be used for thick vegetable soups.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Boiled 7'urbot. 187 FISH. Lesson No. i. BOILED TURBOT AND LOBSTER SAUCE. Tuibot varies in price considerably. Average cost of ingredients for “ Lobster Sauce ” INGREDIENTS. s. d. Lobster 2 o 2 oz. of butter o 21 1 tablespoonful of cream o 2 an oz. of flour o oj 2 4 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to boil Turbot and make Lobster Sauce. 1. We take the turbot. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water and wash it well. 3. We get a fishkettle and fill it with cold water, add to it as much salt as will make the water taste salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. We take the turbot out of the basin. 5. We put it on the drainer of the fishkettle, and put it in the kettle of boiling water, so that it is well covered with water. 6. We let it boil for twenty minutes or half an hour. 7. We must watch it and skim the water if necessary. N.B.—While the turbot is boiling, we should make the lobster sauce (see below). 8. When the fish is sufficiently boiled, the flesh will divide from the bone. 9. Now we take the drainer carefully out of the fishkettle, stand it across the kettle a minute to drain, and slip the fish carefully on to a hot dish for serving.188 Natio7ial Training School for Cookery. For Lobster Sauce. 1. We take a small lobster—it should be a hen lobster if possible. 2. We put the lobster on a board. 3. We take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the edge ; 1st because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 2nd because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 4. We break all the shell off the claws and back with our fingers and take out all the flesh. 5. We cut this flesh up with a sharp knife to the size of small dice. 6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of coral in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 7. We take all this coral out of the lobster and wash it carefully in cold water in a small basin. 8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a mortar with one ounce of butter. 9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the pestle. 10. We take it out of the mortar, and scrape the mortar out quite clean with a palette knife, for none must be lost. 11. If we have not a palette knife we can manage as well with a piece of uncooked potato cut into the shape of a knife blade with a thick back, with this we can scrape all out of the mortar. 12. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 13. We rub the pounded mixture through the sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. 14. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has passed through, and we shall find some sticking on the underneath part. 15. We scrape all this carefully off with the spoon. 16. We make it all into a little pat. 17. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Sauce. 189 Now it is finished. 18. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 19. We add one gill and a half (one gill is quarter of a pint) of cold water. 20. We put the stewpan on the fire. 21. We stir the mixture smooth with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. We add a large tablespoonful of cream, and stir well till it boils again. 22. We then take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 23. We add to the mixture in the stewpan the pat of coral butter by degrees to colour it. N.B.—If there is no coral, the sauce might be coloured with half a teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovy. 24. We stir it quite smoothly with a wooden spoon, it must not be lumpy. 25. We now add pepper and salt and a few grains of Cayenne pepper, according to taste. 26. We take the chopped lobster and mix it into the sauce, and add a little lemon juice. 27. We pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve it with the turbot.190 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 2. FISH PUDDING. Average cost of “ Fish Ptedding and Egg Sauce.” INGREDIENTS. 'Haddock.” s. d. 1 o O 2 Haddock 2 lbs. of potatoes 3 oz. butter o 3^ 1 egg o 1 1 61 "Sauce.” d. 2 oz. of butter 2 oz. of flour o| § gill of cream 3 2 eggs and salt 2 7% Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you howto make a Fish Pudding of a Haddock. N.B.—Any cold boiledfish can be used for the fish pudding, instead of haddock. 1. We take a fishkettle of warm water, and we put in it a little salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take a haddock, and put it into a basin of cold water and wash it well. 3. We take the haddock out of the basin and put it into the fishkettle of boiling water, laying it carefully on the drainer so that it is well covered with water. 4. We let it simmer for fifteen minutes. 5. We take six potatoes, put them into a basin of cold water, and scrub them well with a scrubbing-brush. N.B.—Any cold potatoes can of course be used instead of boiling fresh ones. 6. We take the potatoes out of the basin, and dry them with a cloth. 7. We take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes. 8. We take a saucepan of cold water, and lay the potatoes in it. 9. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. It must not boil less than twenty minutes, or more than three-quarters of an hour; according to the size of the potatoes.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Fish Pudding. 191 10. When we think the potatoes are sufficiently done, we take a steel fork and try the potatoes, to see if they are tender all through. 11. When they are quite boiled, we drain off all the water from the saucepan, and sprinkle the potatoes with a little salt. 12. We put on the lid of the saucepan, and stand it by the side of the fire to steam the potatoes until they have become quite mealy and dry. 13. We should shake the saucepan every now and then, to prevent the potatoes from sticking to the bottom. 14. When the haddock is sufficiently boiled, we take it carefully out of the fishkettle. 15. We take a sharp knife, and cut off the head and tail of the fish. 16. We skin the fish from the head to the tail. 17. We cut up the fish and take out all the hones. 18. We cut the fish up into small pieces the size of dice, and put them in a large basin. 19. When the potatoes are steamed, we take them out of the saucepan with a spoon. 20. We have a wire sieve ready standing over a large plate. 21. We rub the potatoes quickly through the sieve with a wooden spoon. N.B.—The potatoes when sifted should be of the same weight as the fish. 22. We add the sifted potatoes to the haddock, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 23. We add salt and pepper, and a few grains of Cayenne pepper to taste. 24. We put in two ounces of butter. 25. We take one egg,; and beat it slightly in a basin. 26. We pour the egg into the above mixture, and mix all together to a thick paste. 27. We take a large-sized flat tin, and butter it well with our fingers.ig2 National Training School for Cookery. 28. We put the mixture on to this tin, and shape it as well as we can like a haddock. N.B.—If preferred, the mixture can be formed into cutlets, or croquette shapes, or as fish cakes, and egged and bread crumbed and fried in dripping, as for lobster cutlets (see “Fish,” Lesson No. 7, Note 34 to Note 40). 29. We put some little bits of butter all about on the shape. 30. We put the tin into a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. It should become a pale-brown colour. Now we will make the Sauce. 1. We take a stewpan, and put in it two ounces of butter and one ounce and a half of flour. 2. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 3. We add half a teaspoonful of salt. 4. We pour in half a pint of cold water. 5. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir all smooth with a wooden spoon until it boils. 6. We now add two tablespoonsful of cream, and let it boil, stirring all the time. 7. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire. The mixture must not boil again, but only keep warm. 8. We take a saucepan of warm water and put it on the fire to boil. 9. When the water boils we put two eggs in to boil for ten minutes. 10. We put the eggs into cold water for a minute, and then shell them. 11. We cut the eggs with a sharp knife into little square pieces. 12. We take the stewpan of sauce off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 13. We add the cut-up eggs to the sauce, and stir them lightly in, not to break the pieces of egg. 14. For serving we move the fish pudding carefully on to a hot dish, and pour the egg-sauce round. Now it is finished.Lessons on Cooking Fish.— Whitebait. 193 FISH. Lesson No. 3. WHITEBAIT. Whitebait varies in price ; it is in season from July to September. Now we will show you how to fry Whitebait 1. We take the whitebait, wash them in iced water, pick them over carefully, and dry them well in a cloth. 2. We take a sheet of paper and put on it a good tea- cupful offlour. 3. We take the whitebait, and sprinkle them in the flour. They must not touch each other, and we must finger them as little as possible. 4. We take up the paper and shake the whitebait well in the flour, so that they are well covered with flour. 5. We turn the whitebait from the paper of flour into a whitebait basket, and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. 6. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a half of lard or clarified dripping. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. When the fat smokes it will then be hot enough. N.B.—The fat requires to be much hotter for frying whitebait than for any- thing else. N.B.—If possible the fat should be tested by a frimometer, and the heat should rise to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 8. We then turn the whitebait a few at a time into the frying basket and put it into the fat for one minute. The whitebait should be quite crisp. 9. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, stand the plate near the fire and turn the fried whitebait on to the paper to drain off the grease. (We serve them on a napkin on a hot dish. Lemon cut, and thin slices of brown bread and butter should be served with the white- bait) Now it is finished. N194 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 4. SOLE AU GRATIN. Average cost of “ Sole an Gratin!' INGREDIENTS. 1 sole Parsley and | of shalot .... 4 mushrooms A teaspoonful of lemon juice Salt and pepper 2 tablespoonsful of glaze.... f oz. butter Crumbs s. 1 o o d. o °§ 2 o o o o I 7 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to cook Sole au Gratin. 1. We take a small sole and cut off with a sharp knife the outside fins. 2. We cut through the skin only, across the head and the tail, on both sides of the fish. 3. We take the skin off from the tail to the head. 4. We wash the sole in cold water and dry it with a cloth, and nick it with a knife on both sides. 5. We can cook the sole in fillets, if required, or whole. (N.B. —If in fillets, we fillet the sole the same as for the fried fillets in Lesson No. 6.) We are going to cook the sole whole. 6. We take a small bunch of parsley and dry it well in a cloth. 7. We chop the parsley up finely on a board. 8. We chop a quarter of a shalot up finely and mix it with the parsley. 9. The chopped parsley and shalot should fill a tablespoon. 10. We take four small mushrooms, cut off the roots, and then wash the mushrooms well in a basin of cold water.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Sole au Gratin. 195 11. We take them out of the water, dry them in a cloth and peel them. 12. We chop them up finely. 13. We take a dish, and spread a little butter on it with our fingers. 14. We sprinkle half of the chopped parsley, shalot9 ana mushroom over the bottom of the buttered dish. 15. We pour half a teaspoonfid of lemon juice over the chopped parsley, shalot, and mushroom in the dish, also sprinkle half a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of pepper. 16. We lay the sole carefully in the dish, and sprinkle over it the remainder of the chopped parsley, shalot, and mushroom. 17. We sprinkle over the sole pepper and salt (enough to cover a threepenny piece), and squeeze over it half a tea- spoonful of lemon juice. 18. We take half an ounce of butter and cut it in small pieces and put them over the sole. 19. We pour over it two tablespoonsful of half glaze. N.B—Glaze can be bought, or it can be made by reducing some strong stock over the fire. 20. We take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of paper. 21. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 22. We take these bread crumbs and put them on a flat tin. We put this tin into the oven to dry, and slightly brown, the bread crumbs. 23. When the crumbs are done we sift them over the sole. 24. We now put the dish into a brisk oven for ten minutes. We must take a fork and feel in the thick part of the sole if the fish is tender. 25. We carefully move the sole with a slice on to a clean dish, and pour the sauce round. Now it is finished. N 2196 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 5. FILLETS OF SOLES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL Average cost of “ Fillets of Soles a la Maitre dFIotel? INGREDIENTS. s. d. Sole r o Lemon juice o oj | oz. of butter o i % oz. of flour o oj | gill of cream o 3 1 4f Time required about half an hour. Now we will show you how to cook Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. 1. We take one sole and fillet it in the same way as for fried fillets (see “Fish,” Lesson No. 6). 2. We take the bones and fins of the sole and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of water and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take a flat tin pan and butter it with our fingers. 4. We fold the fillets loosely over and lay them in the buttered tin. 5. We sprinkle a quarter of a salt spoonful of salt over the fillets and squeeze six drops of lemon juicei and cover them with a piece of buttered paper. 6. We put the tin with the fillets into a sharp oven for six minutes. Now we will make the Sauce. 1. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it, diy it, and chop it finely with a knife on a board. 2. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour.Cooking Fish.—Soles a la MaUre dlHotel. 197 Now it is finished. 3. We mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 4. We take the saucepan of fish stock and pour it by degrees through a strainer into the stewpan of butter and flour, stirring well. 5. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture smoothly with a wooden spoon ; we now add tivo table- spoonsful of cream and stir it well until it boils. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We add the chopped parsley to the mixture. 8. We add half a teaspoon fid of lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste, and stir the sauce well. 9. Now we take the fillets out of the oven and arrange them on a hot dish for serving; we add the liquor from the fillets of soles out of the tin, to the sauce. 10. We pour the sauce over the fillets of soles. N B.—If there is no cream, the sauce can be made with milk ; the bones of the fish should therefore be boiled in half a pint of milk instead of water.198 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 6. FRIED FILLETS OF SOLE. Average cost of “Fried Fillets of Sole and Anchovy Sauce” INGREDIENTS. For “ Fried Sole.” s. d. For " Anchovy Sauce.” d. Sole .'. , I 0 1 oz. butter 0 1 b-oz. flour .. i Crumbs . 0 o| Anchovy sauce I *2 if Time required about half an hour. Now we will show you how to Fry Filleted Soles. 1. We take one sole, wash it well, and lay it on a board. 2. We take a sharp knife and cut off all the outside finsy the head, and the tail. 3. We take the skin off the sole, from the tail to the head. 4. We cut down the centre of the fish. 5. We slide the knife along carefully between the flesh and the bones, holding the flesh in one hand and drawing it gently away as the knife cuts it away from the bone. 6. We do both sides of the fish alike, and it will make four fillets. 7. We put each fillet separately on a plate, and rub it over with flour. 8. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of paper. 9. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. 10. We take one egg and beat it on a plate with a knife. 11. We lay the fillets in the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Fried Fillets of Sole. 199 Now it is finished. 12. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover them well. We should be careful to finger them as little as possible. 13. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a half of lard or clarified dripping. Now we must make the Butter Sauce with Anchovy (see below). 14. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. Test the heat of it by throwing in a piece of bread’ and if it makes a fizzing noise it is ready. N.B.—The heat is tested best by a frimometer ; the heat should rise to 345°. 15. We take a frying basket and place in it the fillets. 16. The fillets should be slightly bent, or folded over, to prevent their being quite flat when fried. 17. When the fat is quite hot we put in the frying basket with the fillets for three minutes. 18. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 19. When the fillets are done, they should be a pale brown ; we turn them out on to the paper on the plate to drain off the grease. 20. We serve them in a hot dish on a napkin, garnished with a little fried parsley [Refer to “Fish,” Lesson No. 7, Note 41]. 1. We take a stewpan, and put in it one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. 2. We mix them well with a wooden spoon. 3. We add one gill and a half of cold water. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the mixture is quite smooth and boils. 5. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 6. We now add one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, and stir it well into the butter sauce. 7. For serving we pour it into a sauceboat.200 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 7. LOBSTER CUTLETS. Average cost of “Lobster Cutlets" (about seven). INGREDIENTS. s. 1 Lobster from is. to 3 12 oz. of butter o \ a gill of cream o Seasoning and flavouring o 1 oz. of flour o 1 egg o Bread o Parsley o 3 Time required about three hours. 9i Now we will show you how to make Lobster Cutlets. 1. We take a small lobster—it should be a hen lobster if possible. 2. We put the lobster on a board. 3. We take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the edge ; 1st, because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 2nd, because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 4. We break all the shell off the claws and back with our fingers and take out all the flesh. 5. We cut this flesh up in pieces with a sharp knife to the size of small dice. 6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of coral in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 7. We take all this coral out of the lobster and wash it carefully in cold water in a small basin. 8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a mortar with one ounce of butter. 9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the pestle.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Cutlets. 201 10. We take it out of the mortar and scrape the mortar out quite clean with a palette knife or a slice of raw potato, for none must be lost. 11. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 12. We pass the pounded mixture through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 13. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has passed through, and we shall find some sticking inside. 14. We scrape all this carefully off with the spoon. 15. We make it all into a little pat. 16. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 17. We add one gill of cold water (one gill is a quarter pint). We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon till it boils and thickens. 18. We add one tablespoonfid of cream and stir smoothly until it boils. 19. We take the stewpan off the lire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 20. We now stir in by degrees the pat of coral butter. We must be sure the sauce is quite smooth and not lumpy. 21. We add salt and pepper and a few grains of cayenne pepper, according to taste, and about six drops of lemon juice, and mix well. 22. We add the chopped lobster and stir lightly, not to break up the lobster, but only to mix it with the sauce. 23. We take a clean plate and pour the mixture from the stewpan on to it, smoothing it with a knife. 24. We take a piece of paper and cut it round to the size of the plate. We butter it with a knife. 25. We put the buttered paper over the mixture which is in the plate, to prevent the dust from getting in. 26. We take the plate and stand it on ice (if possible), or put it in a cold place to cool.202 National Training School for Cookery. 27. We take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of paper. 28. We take a piece of crumb of bread and rub it through the wire sieve. 29. We take one egg and beat it slightly with a knife on a plate. 30. We take a saucepan and put in it 07ie pound and a half of lard or clarified dripping. 31. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. It must not burn. 32. We take the plate of lobster mixture, which should by this time be cold and rather stiff. 33. We shape the mixture into cutlets. This quantity will make seven. 34. We dip the cutlets into the egg, and egg them well all over with a brush. 35. We take them carefully out of the egg and cover them well with the bread crumbs. N.B.—If the cutlets are not well covered with egg and bread-crumbs they will burst in the frying. 36. We take a frying basket and lay in it the lobster cutlets, a few at a time, so as not to touch each other. 37. When the fat is quite hot we should test it by a frimometer if possible, and the heat should rise to 345°, or by throwing into it a piece of bread. If it makes a sharp fizzing noise it is ready. 38. We put the frying basket into the fat for three minutes, or perhaps less. The cutlets should become a pale brown. 39. We get a plate with a piece of whitey-brown paper on it, ready to receive the ciUlets when they come out of the boiling fat. This is to drain all the grease from them. 40. We take the small claws of the lobster and stick them into the end of each cutlet to represent the bone. 41. We take a few sprigs of parsley, wash them, and dry them in a cloth, and put them into the frying basket.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Lobster Cutlets. 203 Now it is finished. 42. We just toss the basket with the parsley into the boiling fat for a second. 43. We arrange the cutlets on a napkin on a hot dish, and garnish them with the friedparsley.204 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 8. BOILED COD FISH AND OYSTER SAUCE. Cod-fish varies in price considerably. It is in season from October to February. Average cost of “ Oyster Sauce ” INGREDIENTS. i dozen oysters J-oz. butter 3-oz. flour 1 tablespoonful of cream Lemon-juice and cayenne pepper, 1 6 o of o ij o Oj I 8 h Time required abozit twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to cook Cod Fish, and make Oyster Sauce. 1. We take a slice of cod weighing one pound. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water and wash it well. 3. We take a small fish-kettle of boiling water, and add to it as much salt as will make the water taste salt. 4. We put the fish-kettle on the fire. 5. We take the cod out of the basin and place it on the drainer in the fish-kettle, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. N.B.—It must not boil fast. 6. When the slice of cod is sufficiently cooked the flesh will leave the bone. N.B.—The bone is usually left in or the fish would break to pieces. 7. We serve the slice of cod on a folded napkin on a hot dish with oyster sauce.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Oyster Sauce. 205 Now it is finished. For Oyster Sauce. 1. We take one dozen oysters and the liquor that is with them, and put them into a small saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring them to the boil, this is to blanch the oysters. 3. We take the saucepan off the fire as soon as it boils. 4. We take a basin and pour into it the oyster liquor through a strainer. 5. We take the oysters out of the saucepan and lay them on a plate. 6. We take off the beards and all the hard parts of the oysters, leaving only the soft part. 7. We take a stewpan and put in half an ounce of butter, and a quarter of an ounce of flour. 8. We mix the flour and the butter well together with a wooden spoon. 9. We now add to the contents of the stewpan the oyster liquor which is in the basin. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. 11. We now add one tablespoonfid of cream, and stir again until it boils. 12. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 13. We add six drops of lemon juice and a few grains of cayenne pepper according to taste. 14. We take the trimmed oysters and cut them into small pieces. 15. We add the pieces of oyster to the mixture in the stewpan and mix all together with a wooden spoon.206 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. 9. GRILLED SALMON AND TARTARE SAUCE. Salmon varies in price considerably. It is in season from May to August. Average cost of “ Tartare Sauce .” INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs 2 Salt and pepper j A tablespoonful of French vinegar > i Parsley ) Gherkins or capers i 1 gill of oil 6 10 Time required about fifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to cook Salmon and make Tartare Sauce. 1. We take a thick slice of salmon weighing one pound. 2. We cut the salmon into two thin slices as it will cook better than in a thick piece. 3. We put the salmon in a basin of cold water and wash it well. 4. We take it out of the basin and dry it well with a cloth- 5. We take a plate and pour on it about a gill of salad oil. 6. We dip the slices of salmon into the oil on both sides, the oil will prevent the fish from drying whilst cooking. 7. We season the slices on both sides with pepper and salt. 8. We take a gridiron and heat it on both sides by the fire. This is to prevent the fish sticking. 9. When the gridiron is hot, we place on the slices of salmon and let them grill for a quarter of an hour.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Grilled Salmon. 207 Now it is finished. 10. We must turn the gridiron occasionally so as to cook the fish on both sides, which should become of a pale brown colour. 11. When the fish is quite done we can remove the bone in the centre of each slice. We serve the salmon on a napkin on a hot dish. For Tar tare Sauce. 1. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin, and the whites (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 2. We take a wooden spoon and just stir the yolks enough to break them. 3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonfid of French vinegar. 4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb half over the top, pour in drop by drop, the oil’ stirring well with a whisk the whole time; a gill of oil will be sufficient. 5. If the sauce is not sharp enough to taste we add about a teaspoonfid more of vinegar, stirring it in smoothly. 6. We might now stir in a teaspoonfid of ready-made mustard or tarragon vinegar if it is liked. 7. We take a small bunch of parsley, and put it in a small saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and soda (enough to cover a threepenny piece) for tvuo or three seconds, (N.B.—Soda is to keep the parsley green.) N.B.—This is called blanching or parboiling Parsley. 8. We take the parsley out and dry it thoroughly by squeezing it in a cloth. We put it on a board and chop it up finely. There should be a teaspoonful. 9. We take a few gherkins or capers and chop them up finely on a board, there should be plough to fill £ table- spoon. 10. We take these chopped gherkins or capers and the chopped parsley and put them all into the sauce and mix them in with a spoon. 11. We serve the sauce in a sauce tureen,2o8 National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. io. BAKED MACKEREL OR HERRING. Average cost of “ Mackerel or Herring ” (baked with bread crumbs and herbs). INGREDIENTS. 2 mackerel 6d. or herrings 2d. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped herbs and onions 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley x dessertspoonful of bread crumbs ) Pepper and salt / 2 oz. of dripping 3 With Herrings, 5d'. With Mackerel, 9d. Time required about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to bake Mackerel or Herrings with herbs and bread crumbs. 1. We wash the mackerel or herrings in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and put them upon a board. 2. We take a sharp knife, cut off the heads of the fish and carefully split open each fish and take out the back bone. 3. We lay one fish open flat on a tin (skin downwards). 4. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in water, and dry it in a cloth. 5. We put the parsley on a board and take away the stalks and chop it up as finely as possible (there should be about a dessertspoonful). 6. We take half an onion, peel it, put it on a board, with a sprig of thyme atid marjoram, and chop it up finely (there should be about a dessertspoonful). 7. We take a grater, stand it on the board and grate a few bread crumbs (there should be about a dessertspoonfid).Now it is finished. Cooking Fish.—Baked Mackerel or Herring. 209 8. We mix the onion, herbs, and bread crumbs together. 9. We sprinkle pepper and salt to taste, over the fish in the tin. 10. We then sprinkle over the fish the mixture of herbs and bread crumbs. 11. We take the other fish and lay it over the one in the tin (skin upwards). 12. We put two oimces of clarified dripping in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt. 13. We pour the melted dripping over the fish in the tin. 14. We cover the tin with a dish, and stand it on the hot plate or in the oven to bake for half an hour. 15. We must watch it and baste it occasionally with the dripping. 16. For serving, we turn the fish carefully out of the tin on to a hot dish.2io National Training School for Cookery. FISH. Lesson No. ii. BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. Average cost of a “ Stuffed Haddock ” (baked). INGREDIENTS. d. i Haddock 6 Bread crumbs i i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley o| 1 teaspoonful of chopped herbs oj Pepper and salt ) 2 oz. of suet / 1 egg i 2 oz. of dripping..... i ii Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to Stuff a Haddock and Bake it. 1. We take a haddock, wash it, clean it carefully in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 2. We stand a grater on a piece of paper and grate some bread crumbs. 3. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 4. We put the parsley on a board, and chop it up finely, (There should be about a dessertspoonful) 5. We take a small sprig of thyme and marjoram, take away the stalks, and chop the herbs up finely on a board. (There should be about a teaspoonful) N.B.—The stalks will do for flavouring, but they cannot be eaten, as they are bitter. 6. We mix all the herbs together with two tablespoonsful of the bread crumbs. N.B.—The remainder of the bread crumbs we shall require for rolling the fish in. 7. We add pepper and salt to taste, and mix the stuffing together with two ounces of suet.Cooking Fish.—Baked Stuffed Haddock. 211 8. We stuff the belly of the fish with the stuffing and sew it up. 9. We break an egg into a plate, and brush the fish over with it, then roll it in the bread crumbs, covering it well all over. 10. We grease a dish or tin with a piece of dripping. 11. We lay the fish on the dish or tin and put it into the oven to bake for from half to three-quarters of an hour, basting it frequently with dripping. Now it is finished. o 2212 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. FISH. Lesson No. 12. FISH BAKED IN VINEGAR Average cost of “ Fish Baked in Vinegar'.' INGREDIENTS. d. 6 Herrings 6 30 peppercorns 1 blade of mace ....... 1 shallot 1 bay leaf 1 (k pint) of vinegar Salt 7h Time required, about six hours. Now we will show you how to Bake Fish (such as herrings or mackerel), in Vinegar. 1. We take the fish, wash them, and clean them tho- roughly in cold water. 2. We put the fish on a board, and cut them into thick pieces. 3. We lay these pieces close together in a stone jar, with thirty peppercorns and half a teaspoonfid of salt. 4. We add one blade of mace and a bay-leaf. 5. We take one shallot, peel it, and add it, or part of it (according to taste), to the fish. 6. We pour in one gill (a quarter of a pint) of vinegar, and tie a piece of brown paper tightly over the top of the jar with a piece of string. 7. We put the jar into a very slow oven to bake for six hours, or it may stand in a baker’s oven all night. N.B.—The fish is to be eaten cold.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Fried Plaice. 213 FISH. Lesson No. 13. FRIED PLAICE. Average cost of “ Plaice ” (fried). INGREDIENTS. 1 Plaice 1 egg Bread crumbs Dripping for frying I / d. 9 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to fry Plaice in Egg and Bread Crumbs, or Batter. 1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat 2. We take the plaice, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. 3. We put the plaice on a board, and with a sharp knife carefully remove the skin from the back side of the fish, and cut off the head and the tail. 4. We hold a grater over a piece of paper and grate some bread crumbs. 5. We cut up the fish into slices or fillets. 6. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it lightly with a knife. 7. We dip the slices of fish into the egg, and egg them well all over. 8. We then roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them well. N.B.—We must shake off the loose crumbs. 9. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking we care-214 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. fully put in the fish, fingering it as little as possible, so as not to take off any of the egg or bread crumbs. N.B.—We should not put too many pieces at a time into the dripping, as they must not touch each other. 10. We put a piece of whity-brown paper on to a plate, and as the fish is fried we take it out of the dripping care- fully with a slice, and lay it on the paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—Soles or any fish can be fried in the same way. N.B.—For frying fish in batter, we dip each piece of fish in the batter, made as for meat fritters (see Cooked Meat, Lesson No. 2), and fry it in the same way as above.Lessons on Cooking Fish.—Boiled Fish. 215 FISH. Lesson No. 14. BOILED FISH. Average cost of the Sauce to be served with boiled fish (about half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 dessertspoonful of cornflour or arrowroot.... of 1 teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice Oj oh Time required for boiling fish, about twenty minutes to three-quarters of an horn, according to the size of the fish. Now we will show you how to Boil Fish and make the Sauce. 1. We put a saucepan or fish-kettle of water on the fire to boil. 2. We take the fish and clean it thoroughly in cold water. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the fish on a strainer or a plate (there should be sufficient water just to cover the fish). 4. We also put in some salt, enough to make the water taste salt. 5. We put the lid on the saucepan, and move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hoitr (according to the size of the fish). 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. 7. When we find that the skin of the fish is cracking, we shall know that it is sufficiently boiled. While the fish is boiling we make the sauce. 8. We put a dessertspoonful of corn flour or arrowroot into a small saucepan, and mix it into a smooth paste with cold water.Now it is finished. 216 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We now add to it half a pint of the water in which the fish was boiled. 10. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir it until it boils and thickens. 11. We then take the saucepan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 12. We flavour the sauce with a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, and season it with pepper and salt according to taste. N.B.—If liked, the sauce can be coloured with half a teaspoonful of caramel (burnt sugar). See Note at end of “ Brown Pur^e” (Australian Meat, Lesson No. 2). 13. For serving, we take the fish carefully out of the saucepan and place it on a hot dish, we pour the sauce into a sauce boat or a basin, or round the fish.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Boiled Potatoes. 217 Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. x. BOILED AND STEAMED POTATOES. Time requiredfor boiling:— Old potatoes, about half an hour. New potatoes, about twenty mimites. Steamed potatoes, half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For boiling Old Potatoes. 1. We wash two pounds of potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. N.B.—If the potatoes are diseased then we take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about the potato, but it is much better to boil them in their skins. 2. We put them in a saucepan with cold water, enough to cover them, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, to boil the potatoes for from twenty minutes to half an hour. 4. We should take a fork and put it into the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender. 5. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the water, and place a clean cloth over the potatoes in the saucepan. 6. We stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid on, to steam the. potatoes. 7. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we take them carefully cut of the saucepan, peel them without breaking them, and place them in a hot vegetable dish for serving.218 National Training School for Cookery. For boiling New Potatoes. 1. We wash two pounds of potatoes in cold water. 2. We take a knife and scrape them. 3. We take a saucepan of warm water, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the new potatoes, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonfnl of salt. 5. We let them boil for a quarter of an hour; we should take a fork and put it in the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender. 6. We then drain off all the water, and place a clean cloth in the saucepan, over the potatoes, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire with the lid on. 7. When they have become quite dry, we take them out of the saucepan, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish for serving. Now it is finished. For Steamed Potatoes. N.B.—Old potatoes only, can be steamed. 1. We wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. N.B.—It is best to steam the potatoes in their skins, but they can be peeled if preferred. 2. We take a potato steamer, fill the saucepan with hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we put the potatoes in the steamer, and sprinkle them over with salt. 4. We place the steamer on the saucepan of boiling water, and cover it down tight to keep the steam in. 5. We let the potatoes steam for half an hour. 6. We should take a fork and put it in the potatoes, to feel if the centre is quite tender.Now it is finished. Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Steamed Potatoes. 219 7. When they are sufficiently steamed, we take them carefully out of the steamer, peel them without breaking them, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish for serving.220 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 2. MASHED, SAUTE, AND BAKED POTATOES. Average cost of a dish of “ Potatoes.” INGREDIENTS. For " Mashed Potatoes.” d. 2 lbs of old potatoes 2 1 oz. of butter 1^ 1 gill of milk | 1 Pepper and salt j z For " Saute Potatoes.” d New potatoes 2 2 oz. of butter I , Salt j 2i 45 Time required, abozit forty minutes. | Time required, about half an hour. Time required for Baked Potatoes, about three-quarters oj an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For a dish of Mashed Potatoes. 1. We take two pounds of old potatoes, wash them, and steam them as for steaming potatoes (see “Vegetables,Lesson No. 1 ”). 2. We take a stew-pan and put in it one ounce of butter, one gill of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. 3. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 4. We place a wire sieve over a plate. 5. We take the steamed potatoes, one at a time, out of the steamer, put them on the sieve, and pass them through on to the plate as quickly as possible, rubbing them with a wooden spoon. 8. We take the sifted potato and stir it into the boiling milk, in the stew-pan. 7. We must now beat it all lightly together, and then turn it into a hot vegetable dish for serving.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Baked Potatoes. 2 21 Now it is finished. For Sauti Potatoes— 1. We take some new potatoes, as small as possible, wash them in cold water, and scrape them clean. N.B.—If the potatoes are large, they should be cut in halves, or even in quarters, and trimmed. 2. We put them in a saucepan, with cold water. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and only just bring them to the boil. 4. We then drain off the water, and wipe the potatoes dry in a clean cloth. 5. We take a thick stewpan and put in it two ounces of butter, and the potatoes. 6. We put the stewpan on a quick fire for about twenty minutes, to brown the potatoes; we must watch them, and when they have begun to brown we should toss them occa- sionally in the stewpan, so as to brown them on all sides alike. 7. We then strain off the butter, sprinkle them over with salt, and serve them on a hot vegetable dish. Now it is finished. For Baked Potatoes— 1. We take the potatoes, wash, and scrub them well with a scrubbing-brush in a basin of cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a cloth. 3. We put them in a brisk oven to bake ; they will take from half an hour to three-qu,arters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven, and the size of the potatoes. 4. We take a steel fork or skewer, and stick ;t into the potatoes, to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. 5. We take a table napkin and fold it. 6. We place the folded napkin on a hot dish. 7. When the potatoes are sufficiently baked, we take them out of the oven, and arrange them on the napkin for serving.222 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 3. FRIED POTATOES. Average cost of “ Potato Chips or Fried Slices of Potato!' INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of Potatoes Salt The use of i| lb. of clarified fat or lard for frying. Time reqtiired, alout eight minutes for either. Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. For Potato Chips— 1. We wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing-brush. 2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut out the eyes and any black specks about them. 3. We must now peel the potatoes very thinly in ribbons, and twist them into fancy shapes. 4. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a half of clarified fat or lard. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. We must test the heat of it with a piece of bread (see Lesson on “Frying”). 6. We take a frying-basket and put the ribbons of potato in it. 7. When the fat is quite hot we put in the frying-basket with the potatoes for about six minu tes. 8. We place a piece of whity-brown paper on a plate. 9. When the chips are done, they should be quite crisp and of a pale brown colour. We turn them out on to the paper, to drain off the grease, and sprinkle over them a little salt. 10. We serve them on a hot dish.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Fried Potatoes. 223 Now it is finished. For Fried Slices of Potato— 1. We take the potatoes, wash them clean, and peel them with a sharp knife. 2. We put the potatoes on a board, and cut them in slices, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 3. We take a saucepan and put in it one and a half pound of clarified dripping or lard. 4. We take a frying-basket and place in it the sliced potatoes. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire to warm the fat. 6. When the fat is warm, but not very hot, we place in the frying-basket with the slices of potatoes, and let them boil in the fat, until they are quite tender. N.B.—We should take out a piece of potato and press it between the thumb and finger, to feel that it is quite tender. 7. We must now take out the frying-basket with the potatoes and place it on a plate. 8. We leave thz fat on the fire to heat. 9. When the fat is quite hot, we place in the frying- basket with the potatoes for about two minutes. 10. We put a piece of whity-brown paper on a plate. 11. When the potatoes are fried, they should be a pale brown ; we turn them out on to the paper to drain off the grease. 12. We should sprinkle a little salt over them. 13. For serving we arrange them on a hot dish.224 National Training School for Cookery. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 4. POTATO CROQUETTES. Average cost of “ Potato Croquettes'' (about 18). INGREDIENTS. 2 bs. potatoes 1 oz. butter ) 1 tablespoonful of milk / 3 eggs A small bunch of parsley Bread crumbs i Pepper and salt / d. 3 3 1 2 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Potato Croquettes. 1. We take two pounds of potatoes, wash, scrub, and boil or steam them (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—Any remains of cold potatoes could be used up in this way, instead of boiling fresh ones. 2. We place a wire sieve over a plate. 3. We take the potatoes, one at a time, place them on the sieve and rub them through with a wooden spoon as quickly as possible on to the plate. N.B.—The potatoes can be passed through the sieve much quicker while they are hot. 4. We put I oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of milk into a stewpan, and put it on the fire. 5. When the milk and butter are hot, we stir in smoothly the sifted potato. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We break two eggs, put the whites in a cup (as they are not required for present use), and stir the yolks, one at a time, into the potato in the stewpan. 8. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash them in coldLessons on Cooking Vegetables.-Potato Croquettes. 225 water, dry them in a cloth, and chop them up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonful). 9. We sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan, and season the potato according to taste with pepper and salt. 10. We turn the potato mixture on to a plate and stand it aside till cold. 11. We put 1 lb. of clarified dripping into a deep stewpan, and put it on the fire to heat; we must be careful it does not burn. 12. We take some crumb of bread, and rub it through a wire sieve on to a piece of paper. 13. When the potato mixture is cold, we form it into croquettes or balls} according to taste. 14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up slightly with a knife. 15. We dip the croquettes into the egg, and egg them well all over with a paste brush. 16. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them well all over. N.B.—We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 17. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes in it; but we must finger them as little as possible, and not allow them to touch each other. 18. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking (we should test the heat by throwing in a piece of bread which should fry brown directly), we put in the frying basket for two minutes or so to fry the croqiLettes a pale yellow. 19. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, and as the croquettes are fried we turn them on to the paper to drain off the grease. 20. We put three or four small sprigs of parsley (washed and dried) into the frying basket, and just toss the basket into the boiling fat for a second or so. 21. For serving, we arrange the croquettes tastily on a hot dish, with the fried parsley in the centre. Now it is finished. p226 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is'finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 5. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Average cost of dressing “Brussels Sprouts” INGREDIENTS. Brussels sprouts Salt £ of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .... 1 ounce of butter d. 6 Pepper Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Brussels Sprouts, 1. We take the Brussels sprouts, wash them well in two or three waters, and trim them. 2. We take a saucepan with plenty of warm water in it. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- ful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. 5. We put in the sprouts, and let them boil quickly for from ten to twenty minutes, according to their age. N.B.—Young sprouts take the shortest time to boil. 6. We must keep the lid off the saucepan the whole time. 7. After that time, we pour the sprouts into a cullender to drain. 8. When the sprouts are quite dry, we put them in a saute-pan with one ounce of butter. 9. We sprinkle over them a littl<z pepper and salt, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 10. For serving, we arrange them tastily on a hot vege- table dish.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables-Carrots & Turnips, 227 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 6. CARROTS AND TURNIPS. Average cost of dressing “ Carrots and Turnips? INGREDIENTS. Carrots or Turnips 2 tablespoonsful of salt Half a pint of good stock Dessertspoonful of castor sugar Half an ounce of butter Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Carrots and Turnips. For Carrots— 1. We take a saucepan of water, and put it on the fire to 2. When the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- ful of salt. 3. We take the carrots, and if they are quite young, we put them into the saucepan of boiling water, to boil for twenty minutes. 4. We must take a fork and stick it in the carrots to feel that they are quite tender all through. 5. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, and rub them clean with a cloth. N.B.—If the carrots are old we should wash, scrape them clean with a knife, and cut them to the shape of young carrots, or cut them in quarters, or in fancy shapes, with a cutter, before boiling. 6. We should let them boil for from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 7. We take a stewpan and put the boiled carrots in it. 8. We pour in some good stock, enough to cover them. 9. We put in a piece of butter, the size of a nut, and sprinkle about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar over them. boil.228 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and reduce to a glaze over the carrots. 11. We then take them out of the stewpan, and they are ready for serving. For Turnips— 1. We take the turnips and wash them well in cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, put them on a board, peel them with a sharp knife, and cut them in quarters, or cut them out with a round cutter. 3. We take a saucepan of water and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we add a tablespoon- ful of salt. 5. We now put in the cut up turnips, and let them boil for from ten to fifteen minutes. 6. When they are sufficiently boiled, we take them out of the saucepan, and put them into a stewpan with some good stock, enough to cover them. 7. We add to them a piece of butter, the size of a nut, and sprinkle over them about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar. 8. We put the stev/pan on the fire to boil, and reduce to a glaze over the turnips. 9. We then take them out of the stewpan, and they are ready for serving. N.B.—The turnips and the carrots, as described above, can be served with braised veal (see Braised Fillet of Veal) or separately as a vegetable.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables-Boiled Cauliflower. 229 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 7. BOILED CAULIFLOWER AND CAULI- FLOWER AU GRATIN. Average cost of dressing “ Caidiflower au Gratin.” INGREDIENTS- d. Cauliflower 6 Half an ounce of butter 1 i i ounce of flour ) Tablespoonful of cream ij 2 ounces of Parmesan cheese ) Cayenne pepper / 3 Time required, about an hour. Now we will show you how to dress a Cauliflower. 1. We take a cauliflower and wash it well in two or three waters, and take a knife, and cut off the end of the stalk and any withered outside leaves. 2. We put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoon- ful of salt, and let it stand for two or three minutes. 3. We take a large saucepan full of water, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling we put in a table- spoonful of salt. 5. We take the Cauliflower out of the salt and water, and place it in the saucepan with the flower downwards, and let it boil till it is quite tender for from fifteen to twenty minutes. 6. We must take it carefully out with a slice, and feel the centre of the flower with our finger, to see that it is quite tender. 7. After that time we take it out of the saucepan, and put it on a sieve to drain. 8. For serving, we place it on a hot vegetable dish.230 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. If Cauliflower an Gratin be required— 1. We take the cauliflower and wash it, and boil it in the same, way as described above, from Note I to Note 6. 2. When the cauliflower is sufficiently boiled, we take it out of the saucepan with a slice and put it on a plate. 3. We take a knife and cut off* all the outside green leaves. 4. We take a cloth and squeeze all the water out of the cauliflower. 5. We put half an ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We pour [in one gill (or quarter of a pint) of cold water. 7. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens. 8. We now add one tablespoonful of cream, cayenne pepper (about as much as would very thinly cover half the top of a threepenny piece), and salt, according to taste. 9. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, until the sauce is required for use. 10. We take tzvo ounces of Parmesan cheese, \and grate it with a grater on to a piece of paper. 11. We now take the stewpan off* the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 12. We stir rather more than half the grated cheese into the sauce. 13. We place the cauliflower on a tin dish. 14. We pour the sauce all over the cauliflower. 15. We take the remainder of the grated cheese and sprinkle it over the cauliflower, and brown the top of it with a hot salamander. 16. The cauliflower should become a pale brown, and be served hot. 1Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Spinach. 231 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 8. SPINACH. Average cost of dressing “ Spinach” INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of spinach ... Salt 3 ounces of butter . Half a gill of cream Pepper A slice of bread .., s. d. o 6 ° 3f 0 3 o Z I Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Spinach. 1. We take two pounds of spinach and place it on a board. 2. We must pick off all the stalks from the leaves. 3. We put the leaves in plenty of cold water, and wash them two or three times. 4. We turn the spinach on to a cullender to drain. 5. We take a large saucepan and put the spinach into it, sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt over it, and put it on the fire to boil. The drops of water on the leaves and their own juice are sufficient without adding any water. 6. We let it boil quickly for ten minutes, with the cover off. 7. We then pour the spinach into the cullender to drain. 8. We must now press all the water out of the spinach, squeezing it quite dry. 9. We put it on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. N.B.—If preferyld, the spinach might be rubbed through a wire sieve instead of chopped up. 10. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter. v232 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 11. We put the spinach in the stewpan, and add about half a saltspoonful ofpepper and a saltspoonful of salt or more, according to taste, and half a gill of cream, and mix all together with a wooden spoon. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the spinach until it is quite hot. 13. We cut a slice of crumb of bread’ about a quarter of an inch in thickness, put it on a board, and cut it up into triangular pieces. 14. We take a frying-pan, and put into it two ounces of butter or clarified dripping. 15. We put the frying-pan on the fire to heat the fat. 16. When the fat is quite hot, we throw in the pieces oF bread, and let them fry a pale brown. 17. We take the pieces of fried bread and arrange them round a hot vegetable dish to form a wall. 18. We serve the dressed spinach in the centre.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Peas. 233 Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 9. PEAS. Average cost of dressing “Peas” INGREDIENTS. s. d. % a peck of Peas i o Salt | 5 of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .. , o of | an ounce of butter ) Castor sugar o o\ 1 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to dress Peas. 1. We take the peas and shell them. 2. We take a saucepan full of warm water and put it on the fire to boil. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the shelled peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. N.B.—The soda will keep the peas a good colour. 4. We let them boil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. (The cover should be off the saucepan.) 5. After that time we should feel the peas, that they are quite soft, we then take them out of the saucepan and drain off all the water in a cullender. 6. We now turn the peas into a saute-pan with half an ounce of butter. 7. We sprinkle about half a teaspoonful of salt, and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar over the peas, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 8. For serving, we arrange them on a hot vegetable dish.234 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. io. HARICOT BEANS. Average cost of “Haricot Beans” with “Parsley ancL Butter” INGREDIENTS. d. i pint of beans * 3 1 oz. of butter 1 A sprig of parsley | Pepper and salt > o| £ oz. of clarified dripping ) 4a Time required, after the beans are soaked, about two hours and ten minutes. Now we will show you how to boil Haricot Beans, and serve them with parsley and butter. 1. We soak one pint of haricot beans in cold water all night. 2. We put them into a saucepan with three pints of cold water, and a quarter of an ounce of clarified dripping. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we move it rather to the side of the fire and let it boil very gently for two hours. 4. After that time we turn the beans on to a cullender, drain off the water, and put the beans back into the dry saucepan with one ounce of butter. 5. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a cloth, put it on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. 6. We sprinkle the parsley over the beans and season them with pepper and salt. 7. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the contents carefully for about five minutes. 8. For serving, we turn the beans on to a hot dish.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Ttcrnips. 235 VEGETABLES. Lesson No. ii. TURNIPS. Average cost of a dish of “ Turnips ” boiled and mashed. INGREDIENTS. a• 4 large turnips 4 i oz. of butter ) r Pepper and salt j 5 Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to boil Turnips and mash them. 1. We put two quarts of warm water and a tablespoonful of salt into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take some turnips, wash them in cold water, and peel them thickly with a sharp knife. 3. If the turnips are very large, we should cut them in quarters. 4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we put in the turnips and let them boil gently until they are quite tender. 5. We should feel them with a fork to see if they are tender all through. 6. We then turn them into a cullender and drain them very dry. 7. For serving, we put them on to a hot dish. If mashed turnips are required, 8. We boil them as above. 9. We squeeze them as dry as possible in the cullender, pressing them with a plate. 10. When the turnips are quite free from water, we hold the cullender over a saucepan and rub the turnips through with a wooden spoon.Now it is finished. 236 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We put one oimce of butter into the saucepan with the turnips and pepper and salt to taste. 12. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the contents until the butter is well mixed with the turnips and they are thoroughly warmed through. 13. For serving, we turn the turnips on to a hot dish.Lessons on Cooking Vegetables.—Carrots. 237 Now it is finished. VEGETABLES. Lesson No. 12. CARROTS. Average cost of a dish of “ Carrots.” INGREDIENTS- d. Carrots, 6 young 3d., or 4 old ) 1 tablespoonful of salt J 4 4 Now we will show you how to boil Carrots. 1. We put tzvo quarts of zvarm zvater into a saucepan with one good tablespoonfnl of salt, and put it on the fire to boil. 2. We take the carrots and cut off the green tops and wash the carrots well in cold zvater. 3. We scrape the carrots clean with a sharp knife, and carefully remove any black specks. 4. If the carrots are very large we cut them in halves and quarters. 5. When the zvater in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the carrots and let them boil until they are tender. N.B.— Young carrots need not be cut up, nor do they take so long to boil as old ones. 6. For serving we turn the carrots into a cullender to drain, and then put them on a hot dish.238 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SAUCES. Lesson No. i. WHITE SAUCE. Average cost of “ White Sauce” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of white stock 2 oz. of butter s. d. 1 and h oz. of flour 6 Mushrooms ok O Half a pint of cream J O 2 of Time required [if the Stock is made), about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make White Sauce. 1. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when the butter is melted we stir in one ounce and a half of flour with a wooden spoon. 3. We add one pint of white stock (see Lesson on “Stock ”), and stir it until it boils. 4. We take half a dozen mushrooms, wash them and peel them. 5. We add them to the sauce. 6. We let it come to the boil again, then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to simmer for twenty minutes, to throw up the butter. 7. As the butter rises we skim it off with an iron spoon. 8. We pour the sauce through a tammy cloth into another saucepan. 9. We put this saucepan on the fire, and stir till it boils, then add half a pint of cream. 10. We pour it into a basin and stir while it cools, it is then ready for use.Lessons on Making Sauces.—Brown Sauce. 239 SAUCES. Lesson No. 2. BROWN SAUCE. Average cost of “ Brown Sauce ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of brown stock 1 and \ oz. of flour Salt and pepper 2 oz. butter 4 mushrooms 1 o| Time required, about 15 minutes. Now we will show you how to make Brown Sauce. 1. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 2. We take four mushrooms (if large, or six small), wash them well in cold water, cut off the end of the stalks, and peel them. 3. When the butter in the stewpan is melted, we stir in two ounces of flour, and mix them into a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. 4. We now add one pint of brown stock and the mush- rooms, and stir the sauce smoothly over the fire, until it boils and thickens. N.B.—The mushrooms might be omitted if liked, and the sauce flavoured according to the dish with which it is to be served. 5. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. 6. We must watch it carefully, and skim off all the butter as it rises to the top of the sauce. 7. We season the sauce with pepper and salt according to taste. N.B.—If the sauce is not brown enough in colour, a teaspoonful of caramel [burnt sugar) might be stirred into it. 8. We now strain the sauce through a tammy sieve into a basin, and it is then ready for use. Now it is finished. s. d. ..08 ) o o| . . 0 2 .. 0 2240 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SAUCES. Lesson No. 3. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Average cost of " Mayonnaise Sauce” (about half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs 2 Salt and pepper 1 i teaspoonful of French vinegar j 1 i teaspoonful of mustard 1 A i teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar!'. j Xa i gill of salad oil 6 io| Time required, alout io minutes. Now we will show you how to make Mayonnaise Sauce. 1. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin and the zvhites (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 2. We take a wooden spoon and just stir the yolks enough to break them. 3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt and half c salt- spoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. 4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb half over the top, pour in, drop by drop, the oil\ stirring well with a whisk the whole time; a gill of oil will be sufficient. N.B.—We might add a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard or tarragon vinegar if liked, stirring it in smoothly. 5. The sauce is now ready for use.Lessons on Making Sauces.—Sauce Piquanle. 241 SAUCES. Lesson No. 4. SAUCE PIQUANTE, Average cost of Sauce Piquante or sharp sauce (about half a pini). INGREDIENTS.^1 1 shalot, half a carrot, 3 mushrooms. 1 oz. of butter 1 oz. of flour Half a pint of good brown stock x sprig of thyme 1 bay leaf Salt and Cayenne pepper 2 tablespoonsful of vinegar 9 Time required, about twenty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make Sauce Piquante or sharp sauce. 1. We take a shalot and three mushrooms, and peel them, we scrape half a carrot, and then chop them up together very finely on a board. 2. We put the chopped shalot, carrot, and mushroom into a stewpan with one ounce of butter. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire and fry them brown. 4. We then stir in one ounce of flour and half a pint of good brown stock (see Lesson on “ Stock ”). 5. We also add one sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one tablespoonfid of Harvey Sauce, and stir the sauce well until it boils. 6. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire,, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. 7. We season the sauce with salt according to taste, Cayenne pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of a threepenny piece), and two tablespoonsfid of vinegar, 8. We strain the sauce and it is then ready for use. Now it is finished. Q242 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SAUCES. Lesson No. 5. DUTCH SAUCE. Average cost of “ Dutch Sauce!* INGREDIENTS. Half a pint of melted butter 5 yolks of eggs Salt and Cayenne pepper ., ) 2 teaspoonsful of lemon juice / Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make Dutch Sauce. 1. We take half a pint of melted butter and put it into a stewpan. 2. We add the yolks of five eggs. 3. We stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot water over the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon. 4. We season it with salt according to taste, and Cayenne pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of a threepenny piece). 5. We must stir continually until it thickens, and we must not let the sauce boil or it will curdle. 6. Just before the sauce is finished we stir in two tea- spoonsful of lemon juice.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Puff Paste. 243 PASTRY. Lesson No. i. PUFF PASTE. Average cost oiu Puff Paste” INGREDIENTS. d. | lb. of flour f £ lb. of fresh butter . 5^ Yolk of i egg 1 Salt i A few drops of lemon juice ) 7i Time required, one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Puff Paste. 1. We take a quarter of a pound of flour and put it in a heap, on a clean board, and make a well in the centre of the flour. 2. We take half the yolk of an egg and put it in the well. 3. We add six drops of lemon juice. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of butter and lay it on a clean cloth. 5. We fold the cloth over the butter and squeeze it to get all the water out of the bittter. 6. We mix all these ingredients well together (with our hands), adding water to make the paste of the same con- sistency as the squeezed butter. 7. We take a rolling pin and flour it, and also sprinkle flour on the board to prevent the paste from sticking. 8. We roll out the paste rather thin, to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 9. We place the pat of squeezed butter on one half of the paste and fold the other half over the butter, so as to cover it entirely, pressing the edges together with our thumb. Q 2244 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We let it stand on a plate in a cool place for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—It is not necessary to do this in cold weather, it might be rolled at once. 11. We bring the paste back and place it on the board, we roll it out with the rolling pin and fold it over in three. 12. We turn it round with the rough edges towards us. 13. We roll it again and fold it in three. 14. We put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. 15. We bring it back on the board and roll it with a rolling pin and fold it in three, twice as before. 16. We put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. 17. We bring it back to the board and roll it and fold it * in three as before. 18. We put it aside for another quarter of an hour. 19. We bring it back to the board, and roll it out ready, either to cover an apple tart, to make tartlets, ox patty cases. 20. If the paste is used for an apple tart, we put it over the apples in the same way as the short crust over the fruit tart (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 2). 21. If the paste is used for tartlets, the paste should be one-eighth of an inch thick. 22. We take the tartlet tins and wet them with tho paste brush. 23. We cut the paste out with a cutter, a size larger than the tins. The aitter must be floured or the paste will stick to it. 24. We fix the paste into the tins, and put a dummy to prevent the paste rising straight. 25. We put the tins on a baking sheet. 26. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes, the heat of the oven should rise to 300° Fahrenheit, according to the thermometer fixed in the oven. 27. When the tartlets are baked sufficiently, we take them out of the oven.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Puff Paste. 245 Now it is finished. 28. We take out the dummies, and turn the paste out of the tin. 29. We fill in the tartlets with jam. N.B.—If Patty Cases are required, 1. We take the puff paste, it should be half an inch thick, and stamp it out with a round cutter, the usual size of an oyster patty. 2. We take these cut rounds, and place them on a baking sheet. 3. We take a round cutter, three sizes smaller, and dip it in hot water, and stamp the cut rounds of paste in the centre, but not right through. 4. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes. N. B.—The heat of the oven should be the same as for tartlets. 5. When the patties are sufficiently baked, we take the baking sheet out of the oven. 6. The cut centre of each patty case will have risen so that we can take it off. 7. We take a small knife, and with the point cut out all the moist paste from the centre of the patty case. 8. Now the cases are ready to be filled in with either prepared oysters, minced veal, chicken, or pheasant} &c., according to taste.240 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 2. SHORT CRUST. Average cost of “ Short Crust.” INGREDIENTS. d. 6 oz. of flour 1 4 oz. of butter 41 x oz. of castor sugar Yolk of 1 egg Salt A teaspoonful of lemon juice 7 Time required for making, aiout a qtiarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Short Crust. 1. We take six ounces of flour and four ounces of butter. 2. We put these on a clean board, and mix them well together, rubbing them lightly with our hands until there are no lumps of butter left, and the flour and butter resemble sifted bread crumbs. 3. We take a large tablespoonful of castor sugar. 4. We mix the sugar well into the butteredflour. 5. We heap it on the board, making a well in the centre. 6. We take the yolk of one egg and place it in the well. 7. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the egg. 8. We add a teaspoonfid of lemon juice. 9. We add a large tablespoonfid of cold water. 10. We slowly and lightly mix all these ingredients with our fingers until they are formed into a stiff paste. 11. We must keep our hands and the board well floured that the paste may not stick. 12. We fold the paste over and knead it lightly with our knuckles.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Crust. 247 Now it is finished. 13. We take a rolling pin and flour it, and roll out the paste to the size and thickness required. 14. If the paste is for a fruit tart we roll it out to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- ness of about a quarter of an inch. 15. We arrange the fruit in the pie dish, heaped up in the centre. 16. We sprinkle a tablespoonful of moist sugar over the fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 17. We take a paste brush and wet the edge of the dish with water, or a little white of egg. 18. We cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish and place it round the edge of the dish. 19. We take the paste brush again, and wet the edge of the paste with water or white of egg. 20. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 21. We must be very careful not to break the paste. 22. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 23. We take a knife and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the pastey thus, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 24. We take a skewer and make a little hole through the paste on either side of the tart, to let out the steam. 25. We take the paste brush, and wet the tart all over with water. 26. We sprinkle some castor sugar over the tart. This is to glaze it. 27. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the heat of the oven should rise to 240° Fahrenheit) for half an hour, or three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the tart. We must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent its burning. It should become a pale brown.2 4 8 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 3. GENOESE PASTRY. Average cost of “ Genoese Pastry. ” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 6 ozs. of flour o i 6 ozs. of butter o 6f 8 ozs. of castor sugar o 3 7 eggs o 7 1 5f Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Genoese Pastry. 1. We take a small stewpan and put in it six ounces of hitter. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire to melt the butter. Wre must be careful that it does not burn or boil. 3. We take a round tin two inches deep and fit into it a sheet of paper, cut round so that it will allow one inch of paper to be above the edge of the tin. 4. We must butter the paper with a paste brush dipped in the melted butter. 5. We stand a wire sieve over a plate, and rub through it six ounces of flour. 6. We take a large basin and break into it seven eggs. 7. We add half a pound of castor sugar. 8. We take a large saucepan of boiling water and put it on the fire. 9. We stand the basin containing the eggs and sugar in the saucepan of boiling water, and whip the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes. They must not get very hot. 10. We take the basin out of the saucepan, and stand it on the table.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Genoese Pastry. 249 Now it is finished. 11. We now add the butter and then sprinkle in the sifted flour, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon all the time. 12. We pour this mixture into the prepared tin. 13. We put the tin into a quick oven to bake (the heat of the oven should rise to 220°) for half an hour. The mixture should become a pale brown. N.B.—When the paste is sufficiently baked no mark should remain on it if pressed with the finger. 14. When it is quite baked, we take the tin out of the oven, and turn the cake upside down on a hair sieve to cool. 15. When it is cold we cut it into little shapes with a cutter. Sandwiches of jam can be made with it if required.250 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 4. ROUGH PUFF PASTE. Average cost of “ Rough Puff Paste!' INGREDIENTS. d. 8 ozs. of flour ij 6 ozs. of butter 6|- The yolk of i egg ) Salt | 1 J a teaspoonful of lemon juice J 9 Time required, about a quarter of an hour to make. Now we will show you how to make Rough Puff Paste. 1. We take eight ounces of flour and six ounces of butter and put them on a clean board. 2. We take a knife and chop up the butter in the flour. 3. We heap it on the board, making a well in the centre. 4. We take the yolk of one egg; and place it in the well. 5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the egg, and squeeze half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 6. We add a large tablespoonful of cold water, and beat it up slightly with a knife. 7. We now slowly, and lightly, mix it all with our fingers, adding more water if necessary, until it be formed into a stiff paste. 8. We must keep our hands and the board well floured, that the paste may not stick. 9. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste, and fold it over in half. 10. We turn it round with the rough edges towards us. 11. We roll it again and fold it in half.Lesso7is on Making Pastry.—Rough Puff faste. 251 Now it is finished. 12. We must roll out the paste, and fold it twice more as before. N.B.—The paste is now ready to be used for a meat pie, apple tart, tart- lets, &c. The heat of the oven should rise to 280°, but it must be reduced down to 220° after the first quarter of an hour.252 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 5. SUET CRUST FOR BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Average cost of “ One Quart Beef-Steak Pudding with Oysters” INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour 5 ozs. of beef suet 2 lbs. of rump or beef-steak Pepper and salt 1 doz. of oysters 1 gill of stock s. d. .. O I| . . o 2| J 2 8 . . 2 0 .. o If 5 if Time required, about three hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make Suet Crust; to be used for either a Beef-Steak Pudding; or Roly-Poly, &c. 1. We take five ounces of beef suety and put it on a board. 2. We take a knife, and cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 3. We put half a pound of flour into a basin, and add to it the chopped suet and a teaspoonful of salt. 4. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. 5. We then add, by degrees, enough cold water to make it into a smooth paste. We should mix it well. 6. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a board. 7. We take a rolling-pin and flour it. We also sprinkle flour on the board, to prevent the paste from sticking.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Suet Crzist. 253 8. We roll out the paste once, to the thickness of rather more than one-eighth of an inch. N.B.—Now the paste is ready for use, and if it is required for beef-steak pudding— 9. We take a quart pudding basin, and butter it well inside. 10. We line the basin smoothly inside with paste. 11. We take a knife, flour it, and cut away the paste that is above the edge of the basin. 12. We fold this paste together, and roll it out to a round, the size of the top of the basin, one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 13. We take two pounds of rump or beef-steak, put it on a board, and cut it into thin slices. 14. We flour the slices well (using about a tablespoonftil of flour), and season them with plenty of pepper and salt. 15. We take one dozen oysters, and the liquor that is with them, and put them into a saucepan. 16. We put the saucepan on the fire, and just bring them to the boil. N.B.—This is to blanch the oysters. 17. We take the saucepan off the fire, and strain the oyster liquor into a basin. 18. We take the oysters and lay them on a plate. 19. We cut off the beards and all the hard parts of the oysters, leaving only the soft part. 20. We roll up the slices of beef-steak, and fill the basin with the meat and the oysters. N.B.—If oysters be disliked, kidneys might be used instead, or the pudding might be flavoured with shallot, parsley, and mushrooms, according to taste. 21. We now pour into the basin the liquor from the oysters, and one gill of stock (see Lesson on “ Stock”). 22. We wet the paste round the edge of the basin with cold water, and cover over the top of the basin with the round of paste.254 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 23. We must join the paste together at the edge of the basin, pressing it down with our thumb. 24. We take a pudding cloth, flour it, and lay it over the top of the basin, tying it on tightly with a piece of twine. 25. We take a large saucepan of warm water, and put it on the fire to boil. 26. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for three hours. 27. For serving, we take off the cloth and turn the pudding carefully out of the basin on to a hot dish.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Crust. 255 PASTRY. Lesson No. 6. SHORT CRUST FOR APPLE TURNOVERS AND APPLE DUMPLINGS, &c. Average cost of “ Apple Turnovers ” (about three). INGREDIENTS. d. f lb. of flour 2 £ lb. of clarified dripping or butter 2 | a teaspoonful of baking powder 1 2 3 apples / 3 teaspoonsful of moist sugar 1 7 Time required, aiout half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Apple Turnovers. 1. We take three apples, peel and quarter them, cut out the core, and cut them into thin slices. N.B.—One apple is required for each turnover. N.B.—If a fruit fie or apple dumplings are required, see below. 2. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping ox butter, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 4. We add enough cold water to moisten it, and mix it into a stiff paste. 5. We take a board, flour it, and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We flour a rolling pin, and roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 7. We cut the paste into rounds; each round should be about the size of a small plate. 8. We lay the apple on one half of the round of paste, and sprinkle over it one teaspoonful of moist sugar.256 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We wet the edges of the paste, fold the paste over the apple, pressing the edges together with our thumb. N.B.—We must be careful to join the paste together on all sides, OJ the juice of the apple will run out whilst it is cooking. 10. We grease a tin with a little dripping, and place the turnovers on it. 11. We put the tin into the oven (the heat of it should rise to 220°) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 12. For serving we place the turnovers on a hot dish. For Baked Apple Dumplings. 1. We divide the paste into three portions. 2. We take three apples, peel them, and cut out the core from the centre. N.B.—We must not cut the apples in pieces. 3. We fill the centre of the apples with moist sugar. 4. We press each apple into the centre of each portion of paste, and gradually work the paste over the apple, until the apple is entirely covered in. N.B.—We must be very careful to join the paste together as neatly as pos- sible, so as not to show the join ; and there must be no cracks in the paste. 5. We grease a tin, as described above, place the dumplings on it, and put it in the oven (the heat should rise to 220°) to bake for a qitarter of an hour. 6. For serving we take the dumplings off the tin, and put them on a hot dish. 1. If the paste is for a Fruit Pie, we roll it out to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- ness of about a quarter of an inch. 2. We arrange the fruit in the pie dish, heaped up in the centre. 3. We sprinkle a tablespoonful of moist sugar over the fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 4. We take apaste brush and wet the edge of the dish with water, or a little white of egg.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Short Criest. 257 Now it is finished. 5. We cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. 6. We take the paste brush again and wet the edge of the paste with water or white of egg. 7. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 8. We must be very careful not to break the paste. 9. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of the paste round the edge of the dish. 10. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 11. We take a skewer and make a little hole through the paste on either side of the tart, to let out the steam. 12. We take the paste brush and wet the tart all over with water. 13. We sprinkle some pounded loaf sugar over the tart, this is to glaze it. 14. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the heat of it should rise to 240°) for half an hour, or three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the tart. We must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent its burning; it should become a pale brown. N.B.—If a better crust is required for apple turnovers, &c., see “Pastry," Lesson No. 2.258 National Training School for Cookery. PASTRY. Lesson No. 7. FLAKY CRUST FOR PIES AND TARTS. Average cost of “ Flaky Crust ” (to cover a four pint pie or tart). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 b. of flour 2^ J b. of butter 8 2 eggs 2 i teaspoonful of baking powder o^ x Time required [for making the pastry), about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Flaky Crust for pie? or tarts. JL We put one pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it a teaspoonful of baking powder. 2. We break two eggs, put the whites on a plate (the yolks we put aside in a cup), and whip them to a stiff froth with a knife. 3. We add the whipped whites of the eggs to the flour, and mix it into a stiff paste with water (about one gill). 4. We flour a board, and turn the paste out on it. 5. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to a thin sheet. 6. We divide the half-pound of butter into three portions. 7. We take one portion of the butter and spread it all over the paste with a knife. 8. We^ sprinkle a little flour over the butter and fold the paste into three. 9. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste, and spread another portion of the butter over it.Lessons on Making Pastry.—Flaky Crust. 259 10. We fold the paste as before, roll it out, and add the remainder of the butter. 11. We then fold the paste again, and roll it out to the size and thickness required either for a fruit pie or an open tart. N.B.—This crust should be baked in a quick oven (the heat should rise to 240°). N.B.—The top of a fruit pie should be brushed over with water, and then sprinkled with pounded white sugar. N.B.—For an open tart we take a tin (the size required) and grease it with clarified dripping or butter. We should roll out the paste to a thin sheet about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and rather larger than the size of the tin. We place th& paste in the greased tin, pressing it into the shape of the tin with our thumb. We should place a dummy or a piece of crust of bread in the centre of the paste to prevent the paste from rising while baking. We put the tin in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. The jam should be put into the tart after it is baked. Now it is finished. R 2260 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. i. CABINET PUDDING. Average cost of “ Cabinet Pudding ” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. s. d. x doz. cherries or raisins and two or three ) ^ pieces of angelica j ° Ia i doz. finger biscuits and | a doz. ratafias .. 07 1 oz. of loaf sugar and 15 drops of essence ) , of Vanilla f 0 4 eggs o 4 1 pint of milk o 2^ required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cabinet Pudding. 1. We take a pint and a half mould\ and butter it inside with our fingers. 2. We take a dozen raisins, or dried cherries, and two or three pieces of angelica, and ornament the bottom of the mould with them. 3. We take one dozen stale sponge finger bisadts and break them in pieces. 4. We partly fill the mould with pieces of cake and half a dozen ratafias. 5. We take 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, and put them in a basin. 6. We add to the eggs one ounce of white sugar, and whip them together lightly. 7. We stir in by degrees one pint of milk. 8. We flavour it by adding fifteen drops of essence of Vanilla.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Puddings.—u Cabinet!1 261 9. We pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. 10. We place a piece of buttered paper over the top of the mould. 11. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and stand it on the side of the fire. 12. We stand the mould in the saucepan to steam for from three quarters of an hour to an hour. N.B.—The water should only reach half-way up the mould, or it would boil over and spoil the pudding. 13. For serving, we turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish. N B,—For a cold “ Cabinet Pudding," see " Puddings,” Lesson No. 27.262 National framing School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 2. LEMON PUDDING. Average cost of “ Lemon Pudding j. d. o 6 o xi o P o 6 o oj 2 o Time required, about one hour. INGREDIENTS. 3 lemons 6 ozs. of sugar 6 eggs 1 gill of cream 1 gill of milk 3 ozs. of cake crumbs 1 inch of cinnamon stick. Now we will show you how to make a Lemon Ptidding. 1. We take three lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of them on six lumps of sugar. 2. We take an inch of the stick of cinnamon, and put it in a mortar. 3. We pound the cinnamon well in the mortar with the sugar. 4. We put this into a basin. 6. We take three ounces of cake crumbs, and add to the above in the basin, and mix all well together. 6. We take the three lemons, cut them in halves, and squeeze the juice of them into the basin through a strainer. 7. We add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them in with the above. (Two of the whites of eggs we put on a plate, the others we put aside.) 8. We stir in well and smoothly one gill (quarter pint) of cream and one gill of milk with a wooden spoon. 9. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth with a knife, and add them at the last moment to the above mixture, stirring it lightly.Now it is finished. L essoris on Making Ptiddings. —11L emon. ” 263 10. We take a pie disk, and line the edge of it with puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 1). 11. We pour the mixture into the pie dish. 12. We put the pie dish in the oven (the heat of it should rise to 220°) to bake till the mixture is set, and of a light brown colour; it is then ready for serving.264 National Training School for Cookeiy. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 3. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Average cost of “ Apple Charlotte.” INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 lbs. of apples '..... o 6 | lb. of loaf sugar o 2 The rind of one lemon o 1 Bread and clarified butter o 6| J 3a Time required, about two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make an Apple Charlotte. 1. We take two pounds of good cooking apples, and peel them thinly with a sharp knife. 2. We take a knife and cut them in slices, and take out the core. 3. We put these sliced apples into a stewpan, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them, and one gill of water. 4. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5. We take the rind of the lemon, and tie it together with a piece of twine, and put it in the stewpan with the apples. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until it boils, and the apples are reduced to about half the quantity. It will take from one hour to one hour and a half. 7. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table, and we must take out the lemon- peel. 8. We take a plain round tin mould (about one pint and a half). 9. We cut a slice of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and round to the size of the mould. tLessons on Puddings.—Apple Charlotte. 265 Now it is finished. 10. We put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan to melt and clarify. 11. We must cut the round of bread into quarters, dip them in the clarified butter, and place them at the bottom of the mould. 12. We now cut slices of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and the depth of the mould in length. 13. We cut these slices into strips an inch wide. 14. We dip these strips into the clarified butter, and place them round inside the mould, allowing them to lie half over each other. 15. We must now pour the apples into the middle of the mould. 16. We cover the apples with a round of bread dipped in the clarifiedhutter. 17. We put the mould into a good oven (the heat of the oven should be about 230°) to bake for three-quarters of an hour. N.B.—The bread should be quite brown and crisp. 18. For serving, we turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish.266 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 4. PANCAKES. Average cost of “ Pancakes ” (about eight). INGREDIENTS. 3 ozs. of flour 2 eggs | a pint of milk \ a saltspoon of salt 3 ozs. of lard The juice of a J of a lemon 2 ozs. of moist sugar d. 1 2 1 21 1 1 8* Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how we make Pancakes. 1. We take three ounces of flour, and put it in a basin. 2. We add half a saltspoonfnl of salt, and mix it well into the floitr. 3. We break two eggs into the flour, and add a dessert- spoonful of milk, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 4. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk, making the mixture very smooth. N.B.—If possible it is better to let this mixture stand before frying it into pancakes. 6. We put a fryingpan on the fire, and put into it a piece of lard the size of a nut, and let it get quite hot, but it must not burn. 6. We then pour into the fryingpan two large table- spoonsful of the batter, and let it run thinly all over the pan. 7. When the pancake has become a light brown on one side, we should shake the pan, and toss the pancake over, to brown the other side the same.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Pliddings.—Pancakes. 267 8. We should stand a plate on the hot-plate, or in the front of the fire to heat. 9. When the pancake is fried, we turn it on to this heated plate. 10. We should squeeze about fifteen drops of lemon juice, and sprinkle a teaspoonful of moist sugar over it. 11. We now roll up the pancake, and place it on the edge of the plate, so as to leave room for the remainder of the pancakes. N. B.—We should fry all the pancakes in this manner, adding each time a piece of lard the size of a nut. 12. For serving we arrange the pancakes on a hot dish, placing one on the top of the other.268 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 5. RICE PUDDING. Average cost of “ Rice Pudding” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 13 oz. of Carolina rice 0-3- Butter o| 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar 03 1 pint of milk 23 3 s Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a plain Rice Pudding. 1. We take a pint dish and hitter it well inside. 2. We take one ounce and a half of Carolina rice, and wash it well in two or three waters. 3. We put the rice into the buttered dish, and sprinkle over it a tablespoonful of moist sugar. 4. We fill up the dish with new milk. N.B.—Nutmeg may be grated, or founded cinnamon be sifted, over the top of the pudding before it is put in the oven. 5. We put the dish into a moderate oven (the heat should be about 220°) to bake for two hours. 6. We must watch it occasionally, and as the rice soaks up the' milk, more milk should be added (carefully lifting up the skin and pouring the milk in at the side), so as to keep the dish always full.L essons on Making Puddings.—Custard. 269 Now it is finished. PUDDINGS Lesson No. 6. CUSTARD PUDDING. Average cost of “ Custard Pudding ” (about one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. d. 4 eggs 4 x pint of milk 2 Grated nutmeg 1 , 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar | °z Butter and flour for paste 2 Time required, about thirty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Custard Pitdding. 1. We take a pint and a half dish, butter it well inside, and line the edge with paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 2). 2. We break four eggs, and put the yolks into a basin. (Two whites of eggs we put on a plate, the others we put aside.) 3. We stir one pint of milk in with the eggs. 4. We add a tablespoonful of castor sugar. 0. We whip the whites of the two eggs with a knife to a stiff froth, and add it to the basin, mixing it all lightly. 6. We pour this custard into the buttered dish lined with paste. 7. We grate half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 8. We put the dish into a moderate oven (the heat should rise to 220°) to bake for half an hour. It is then ready for serving.270 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 7. PLUM PUDDING. Average cost of “ Plum Pudding ” INGREDIENTS. INGREDIENTS. INGREDIENTS for Brandy or s. d. Wine Sauce. \ lb. of beef suet 0 5 s. d. x of currants Q 0 3 eggs 0 3 \ lb. of sultanas or raisins .... O 0 3 1 gill of cream (or milk \) 0 6 5 lb. of mixed candied peel, 1 1 wineglassful of brandy or 1 6 viz., citron, lemon & orange ) O 3 sherry / 5 lb. of bread crumbs ) 1 dessertspoonful of sugar .... 0 0 k £ lb. of flour j O 2-j J lb. of moist sugar O 2 1 35 i lemon O 2 4 eggs O 4 i gill (J pint) of milk O 0 b 1 wineglassful of brandy O 6' 2 ozs. of almonds O i| \ of a teaspoonful of salt .... 1 q I \ a nutmeg j 2 9i Time required, aboutfive hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take half a pound of beef suet, put it on a board,, cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as , possible with a sharp knife. 3. We take half a pound of currants, wash them clean in water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 4. We take up the currants in handfuls, and drop them, a few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are any stones with them. 5. We take half a pound of sultmia raisins, and pick them over N.B.—If large raisins are used, they should be stoned.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Plum. 271 6. We place a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve. (There should be a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs.) 8. We take a quarter of a pound of mixed peel, citronr lemon, and orange, and cut it up into small pieces. 9. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a kitchen basin, and add to it the chopped suet, and half a teaspoonfid of salt. 10. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 11. We now add the bread crumbs, the currants and raisins, half a pound of moist sugar, and the pieces of candied peel, and mix all well together. 12. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 13. We also grate half a nutmeg into the basin, and add two ounces of almonds (previously blanched and chopped up finely). 14. We break four eggs into a basin, and add to them one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and a wineglassfid of brandy. 15. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing them all together. 16. We take a strong pudding-cloth, sprinkle about a teaspoonfld of flour over it, and lay it in a basin. 17. We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre of the floured cloth. 18. We tie up the pudding tightly in the cloth with a piece of string. N.B.—If preferred, the pudding might be put into a buttered mould and a cloth tied over the top. 19. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for five hours.272 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 20. For serving, we take the pudding out of the cloth and turn it on to a hot dish, N.B —Brandy or wine sauce (see below) can be served with the pudding if liked, either poured over it or served separately in a sauce boa For Brandy or Wine Sauce. 1. We put three yolks of eggs into a small stewpan. 2. We add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cream or milk, and a wineglassfid of brandy or sherry, and whisk all well together with a whisk. 3. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and put it on the fire. 4. We stand the stewpan in the saucepan of hot water, and whisk the sauce well for about six or eight minutes. N.B.—We must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 5. After that time we take the stewpan out of the saucepan. 6. We pour the sauce over the plum pudding (see above) or into a sauce-boat.Lessons on Making Puddings.— Vennoise. 273 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 8. VENNOISE PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Vennoise Pudding ” (one pint and a half mould). INGREDIENTS. 5 oz. of crumb of bread 2 ozs. of candied peel 3 ozs. of castor sugar 1 oz. of lump sugar 1 lemon 4 eggs \ a pint of milk 1 gill (J pint) of cream 3 ozs. of Sultana raisins 1 wineglassful of sherry s. d. o 2 O 2 O X| O 2 O 4 O ij o 6 o I;| o 6 2 2j Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make a Vennoise Pudding. 1. We take a piece of stale crumb of bread (about five ounces), put it upon a board, and cut it up in the shape of dice. 2. We put the bread into a basin with three ounces of castor sugar and three ounces of sultana raisins. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 4. We chop up two ounces of candied peel ^nd put it into the basin. 5. We pour in a wineglassful of sherry. 6. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 7. We put one ounce of lump sugar into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to brown. 8. When it has become a dark brown liquid we add to274 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. it half a pint of milk, and stir it until the milk is sufficiently coloured. N.B.—We must be careful that the sugar is quite dissolved, that there be no lumps left. 9. We then stand the stewpan on a piece of paper on the table. *10. We put the yolks of four eggs into a basin (the whites we should put aside, as they are not required for present use). 11. We pour the coloured milk into the eggs, stirring well all the time. 12. We stir the milk and eggs into the ingredients in the basin. 13. We also add one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cream. 14. We take a pint and a half moidd and butter it inside. 15. We pour the pudding into the moidd. 16. We butter a piece of kitchen paper and lay it over the top of the mould. 17. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we place in the moidd to steam (the water should only reach halfway up the mould, or it will boil over and get into the pudding). 18. We let the pudding steam for one hour and a half 19. For serving, we take the buttered paper off from the top of the mould, and turn the pudding out carefully on to a hot dish. N.B.—German Sauce (see “ Puddings,” Lesson No. io) can be served with the pudding if liked, either poured round it, or served separately in a sauceboat.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Amber. 275 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 9. AMBER PUDDING. Average cost of an “Amber Pudding” (onepint dish). INGREDIENTS. j. d. 6 apples ’ o 4 3 ozs. of moist sugar o 1 1 lemon o 2 2 ozs. of butter o 3 3 eggs o 3 Puff paste o 4 1 S Time required, abozit one hozir and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make an Amber Padding. 1. We take six large apple's, peel them, cut out the core, and cut them up into slices. 2. We put the apples into a stewpan with three ounces of moist sugar, and two ounces of butter. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife. 4. We cut the lemon in half and squeeze the juice through a strainer into the stewpan. 5. We also add the lemon peel. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it stew till the apples are quite tender (it will take about three-quarters of an hour). 7. We place a hair sieve over a large basin. 8. When the apples are sufficiently stewed, we pour them on to the sieve and rub them through into the basin with a wooden spoon. 9. We stir the yolks of three eggs into the basin.Now it is finished. 276 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We take a pie-dish (about onepint), and line the edge with, puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—If we have, no puff paste, short paste (see “Pastry,” Lesson No. 2) will do. 11. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and put it in the oven (the heat should be 240°) for twenty minutes. 12. We whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 13. When the pudding is a light brown, we take it out spread the whipped whites of the eggs over the top, and sift about a dessertspoonful of castor sugar over it. 14. We put the dish back in the oven till the icing is a light brown ; the pudding is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Brown Bread. 277 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 10. BROWN BREAD PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Brown Bread Pudding and German Sauce ” (one pint mould). INGREDIENTS. A loaf of brown bread 1 lemon Half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla.. 3 ozs. of castor sugar 1 gill (f pint) of milk 1 gill (5 pint) of cream 4 eggs s. d. o 2 o 2 o i| o of o 6 o 4 1 4i German Sauce. 2 eggs o 2 1 wineglassful of sherry o 6 i dessertspoonful of castor sugar o of o 8f Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Brown Bread Pudding. 1. We take a stale brown loaf and cut off all the crust. 2. We put a wire sieve over a plate and rub the crumb of bread through it 3. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 4. We put five ounces of the bread crumb into a basin, with three ounces of castor sugar. 5. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind over the bread crumbs. 6. We also add half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. 7. We put a stewpan full of warm water on the fire to boil.2 78 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 8. When the milk boils we pour it over the crumbs. 9. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 10. We add the cream to the other ingredients, and also stir in one at a time the yolks of four eggs (the whites of two of the eggs we put on a plate, the others we put aside). 11. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the basin, mixing all the ingredients together. 12. We take a pint mould and butter it well inside. 13. We pour the mixture into the mould, butter a piece of kitchen paper, and place it over the top. 14. When the water in the stewpan is quite boiling, we stand the mould in it to steam the pudding (the water should only reach half-way up the mould, or it will boil over and spoil the pudding). 15. We let it steam for one hour and a quarter. 16. For serving we take off the buttered paper, and turn the pudding on to a hot dish. f GERMAN SAUCE. 1. We put the yolks of two eggs into a stewpan with a wineglassful of sherry and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 2. We put the stewpan on the fire and mill it with a whisk till it comes to a thick froth. N.B.—We must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 3. We pour the sauce round the pudding.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Carrot. 279 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. ii. CARROT PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Carrot Pudding ” (one pint). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 3 or 4 carrots o i J 3 ozs. of bread crumbs o i 2 ozs. of butter o 2 \ a gill of cream o 3 2 eggs o 2 \ a gill of sherry o 3 1 oz. of castor sugar o 1 r tablespoonful of orange flower water .... o i| Puff paste o 4 1 7 Time required, about three quarters of an liozir. Now we will show you how to make a Carrot Pudding. 1. We take three or four carrots (according to their size), wash them and scrape them clean with a knife. 2. We take a grater and grate all the red part of the carrots into a basin (there should be about a quarter of a pound). 3. We stand a wire sieve over a plate. 4. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the sieve (there should be about three ounces of bread crumbs). 5. We put the bread crumbs into the basin with the carroty we also add one ounce of castor sugar. 6. We put tzvo ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to melt. 7. When the butter is melted, we take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 8. We then stir into it half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of sherry, half a gill of cream, and a tablesp'oonful of orange floiver water.2So National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We also add the yolks of two eggs (the whites we put on a plate). 10. We whip the ivhites of the two eggs to a stiff froth with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the stewpan, mixing all the ingredients together. 11. We then pour the contents of the stewpan into the basin with the carrot and bread crumbs, and mix them well together. 12. We take a pie-dish (about one pint) and line the edge of it with puff paste (see “ Pastry,” Lesson No i). 13. We pour the pudding into the pie-dish, and put it into the oven (the heat should be 240°) to bake for half an hour; it is then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Alexandra. 281 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 12. ALEXANDRA PUDDING. Average cost of an "Alexandra Padding” (onepint). INGREDIENTS. s. d % 10 eggs o 10 2 ozs. of castor sugar o i 1 gill (j pint) of milk o of J a pint of good cream i o 1 teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla o i Time required, about one hour and twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make an Alexandra Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put the yolks of ten eggs into a basin (the whites of five of the eggs we put in another basin, the others we put aside). 3. We stir into the yolks of the eggs two ounces of castor sugar. 4. We also add one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and half a pint of good cream. 5. We whip the whites of the five eggs slightly with a whisk or knife. 6. We take a plain tin mould (about one pint) and butter it inside, we cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered paper. 7. We add the whipped whites of the eggs, and a teaspoon- fid of essence of Vanilla to the mixture in the basin, and stir all lightly together. 8. We pour the mixture through a strainer, into the mould\ and tie over it a piece of stiff paper with a string.Now it is finished 282 National Training School for Cookery. 9. When the water in the saucepan boils we stand in the mould. (The water should only reach half way up the mould, or it will boil over and spoil the puddingt) 10. We let it simmer gently until the pudding is quite firm. (It will take about one fwtir and a quarterl) N.B.—It must on no account boil fast. 11. After that time we take the pudding out of the sauce- pan and stand it in ice. 12. For serving, we take off the buttered paper and turn the pudding carefully out on to a dish, and ornament it with red currant jelly according to taste.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Blanc-Mange. 283 Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 13. BLANC-MANGE. Average cost of “ Blanc-mange ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 4 tablespoonsful of cornflour 1 quart of milk 3 ozs. of loaf sugar > 1 inchof the stick of cinnamon or lemon peel j 2 4 x 7 Ti?ne requiredabout a quarter of an hour to make, and about three quarters of an hour to get cold. Now we will show you how to make a Blanc-mange. 1. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan with three ounces of loaf sugar, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon or the peel of a quarter of a lemon for flavouring. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 3. We put four tablespoonsful of cornflour into a basin and mix it smoothly with a tablespoonful of cold milk. 4. When the milk in the saucepan is quite boiling, we stir in the cornflour quickly and let it boil for two minutes, stirring continually. N.B.—We must be very careful not to let it get lumpy. 5. We take a quart basin or a mould and rinse it out in cold water. 6. We now take the piece of cinnamon or lemon peel out of the cornflour, and pour the cornflour into the basin, and stand it aside to cool. 7. When the blanc-mange is quite cold, we turn it out of the basin on to a dish, and it is ready for serving.284 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 14. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Boiled Batter Pudding” (about a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. £ lb. of flour ...... Salt 2 eggs 1 pint of milk 5* Time reqtiired, about two hours and fifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Boiled Batter Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin and mix half a saltspoonfiil of salt with it. 3. We break two eggs into the flour, and beat them well together. 4. We now add by degrees one pint of milky stirring smoothly all the time, until the batter is well mixed. 5. We let the batter stand for one hour. 6. We take a pudding basin and grease it inside with butter. 7. We stir the batter, and then pour it into the basin. 8. We dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it out and flour it well. 9. We place the cloth over the batter and tie it on securely with a piece of string, just below the rim of the basin. We pin or tie the four corners of the cloth over the top. 10. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we put in the puddingy and let it boil for one hour.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Boiled Batter. 285 Now it is finished. 11. For serving, we take the basin out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out on a hot dish.286 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 15. CORNFLOUR PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Pudding”{in a cup). INGREDIENTS. 2 dessertspoonsful of cornflour i \ pint of milk i 6 lumps of sugar | 1 egg 1“ 3i Time required, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding (in a cup, for infants or invalids). 1. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put two dessertspoonsfid of cornflour into a sauce- pan. 3. We pour in by degrees half a pint of milk, mixing it very smoothly. N.B.—We must be careful that it does not get lumpy. 4. We now add to it six lumps of sugar\ put the sauce- pan on the fire and stir smoothly until it boils; it will take about ten minutes. 5. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 6. We break one egg into the saucepan, and beat it up until it is all well mixed. 7. We take a cup (just large enough to hold thepudding), and grease it inside with a piece of butter. 8. We pour the mixture out of the saucepan into the cup. 9. We take a small cloth, wring it out in boiling water,Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Pttddings.—Cornflour. 287 flour it well, and tie it over the top of the cup with a piece of string. N.B.—We should tie the four corners of the cloth over the top of the cup. 10. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the cup and let it boil for twenty-five minutes. 11. For serving, we take the cloth off the cup, and the pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste.288 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 16. BATTER PUDDING. Average cost of a “Batter Pudding" (in a cup). INGREDIENTS. d. i egg i i tablespoonful of flour ^ i teacupful of milk ) , Salt / ^ Time required, about thirty-five minutes to make and thirty minutes to stand. Now we will show you how to make Batter Pudding (in a cup for infants or invalids). 1. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put a tablespoonful of flour into a basin with a few grains of salt. 3. We break one egg into the basin and mix it well into the flour. 4. We now add by degrees a teacupful of milk, stirring i*. vigorously with a wooden spoon. 5. We let the batter stand for half an hour. 6. After that time we take a cup (just large enough to hold the batter) and grease it well inside with a piece of butter. 7. We stir the batter, and then pour it into the cup. 8. We take a small cloth, wring it out in boiling water, flour it well, and tie it over the top of the cup, with a piece of string. N.B.—We tie the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the cup. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the cup, and let it boil for half an hour. 10. For serving, we take the cloth off the cup, and the pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Cornflour. 289 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 17. CORNFLOUR PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Pudding ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 4 tablespoonsful of cornflour 1 quart of milk 3 tablespoonsful of pounded sugar 2 eggs 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon or a bay leaf Grated nutmeg 5 2 1 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding. 1. We put four tablespoonsful of cornflour into a basin, and mix it quite smooth with a tablespoonful of cold milk. 2. We put the remainder of the quart of milk into a saucepan with three tablespoons fid of pounded sugar and one inch of the stick of cinnamon or a bay-leaf. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 4. When the milk boils we pour it on to the mixture, stirring it smoothly all the time. 5. We break two eggs; into the cornflour, and beat it up lightly. 6. We take a quart pie-dish and grease it inside with butter. 7. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and grate half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 8. We put the dish into the oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for half an hour. 9. It will then be ready for serving. Now it is finished; T290 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 18. RICE PUDDING. Average cost of “ Rice Pudding” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. | lb. of rice i quart of milk d. 2 oz. of moist sugar 2 oz. of suet Grated nutmeg io| Time required, from forty minutes to an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Rice Pudding. 1. We wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, and then put it into a saucepan of cold water, and put it on the fire till it boils and swells. 2. We break two eggs into a basin. 8. We add to them two ounces of moist sugar and one quart of milk, and stir them together. 4. We put two ounces of suet on a board, cut away all the skin, and shred it as finely as possible. 5. We take a quart dish, and grease it inside with clarified dripping or butter. 6. We drain off the rice on a cullender as dry as possible, and lay it in the greased dish. 7. We pour the mixture of milk and eggs over the rice, and sprinkle the shredded sitet over the top. 8. We take a grater, and grate half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 9. We put the dish into an oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for from forty minutes to an hour. 10. After that time it is ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Citrates. 291 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 19. CURATES PUDDING. Average cost of “ Citrates Pudding” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of potatoes i 3 eggs 3 1 pint of milk o.\ Sugar , o| 7 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Citrates or Sweet Potato Pudding. 1. We take one pound of potatoes, wash them, and boil them as described (see “Vegetables,” Lesson No. 1). N.B.—Any remains of cold boiled potatoes could be used instead of fresh ones. 2. We rub these boiled potatoes through a cullender into a basin with a wooden spoon. 3. We break three eggs into another basin, and stir into them one pint of milk. 4. We stir the milk and eggs smoothly into the potatoes, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. 5. We take a quart pie dish, grease it inside, and pour the mixture into it. 6. We put the pie dish in the oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for half an hour; it will then be ready for serving. Now it is finished. t 2292 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 20. BREAD PUDDING. Average cost of “ Bread Padding ” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of scraps of bread i J x quart of milk 5 2 eggs 2 2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar o§ 4 oz. of raisins or currants 1 10 Time required, three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Bread Pudding. 1. We put one pound of scraps of bread into a basin, with plenty of cold water to soak. N.B.—Any scraps of bread, either crumb or crust, however stale, so long as they are not mouldy or burnt, can be used for this pudding. 2. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We put into the milk a piece of butter the size of a nut, to prevent it from burning. 4. We take the bread out of the basin and squeeze out all the water. 5. We empty the water out of the basin, and put back the bread. 6. When the milk boils we pour it over the bread' and let the bread soak until it is soft. 7. We break two eggs into a small basin, add to them two tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and beat them lightly together. 8. We take four ounces of large raisins and stone them, or, if currants are preferred, we should wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones with them.Lessons on Making Ptidctings—Bread Pudding. 293 Now it is finished 9. We now beat the bread up with a fork as smooth as possible. 10. We put in the raisins or currants, and the eggs and sugar, and mix them all well together. 11. We take a pie dish or tin, holding tzvo pints and a half, grease it well inside, and pour in the mixture. 12. We put it in the oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for half an hour; it will then be ready for serving.294 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 21. TREACLE PUDDING. Average cost of " Treacle Pudding” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of flour 2 lb. of suet 2 1 teaspoonful of baking powder j . Salt } oj 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger ) About a 2 lb. of treacle i About J of a pint of milk o§ 1 egg 1 7 Time required, two hours and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Treacle Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 3. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little salt, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 4. We add the chopped suet and one teaspoonful of ground ginger, and mix all well together with a spoon. 5. We put a quarter of a pound of treacle into a basin with a quarter of a pint of milk and one egg, and mix them together. N.B.—If liked, rather more treacle can be added. 6. We stir this into the mixture in the basin, and add more milk if required to make the pudding moist. N.B.—When the pudding is mixed it should be rather stiff. 7. We take a quart basin, grease it well inside, and pour the mixture into it. N.B.—We should be careful that the basin is full, for if not quite full the water will get into it and spoil the pudding.Lessons on Making Puddings.— Treacle. 295 Now it is finished. 8. We sprinkle some flour over the top of the pudding,; put a cloth over it, and tie it tightly down with a piece of string, just below the rim of the basin, and tie or pin the corners of the cloth together. 9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours. 10. For serving, we take the pudding out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, place a hot dish over the pudding, and turn it carefully out of the basin.296 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 22. PLUM PUDDING. Average cost of “ Plum Pudding” ('three-quarters of a pound). INGREDIENTS. 5 oz. of bread crumbs 7 oz. of flour £ lb. of suet 5 lb. of raisins £ lb. of currants .... 2 oz. of moist sugar 2 oz. of candied peel 1 teaspoonful of baking powder .... 2 eggs 1 giU (I pint) milk 11 d. i* o\ 2 ij i Of 1 °£ 2 Oj Time required, two and a half hours. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Pudding. 1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We stand a grater on a piece of paper, and grate some bread crumbs; there should be five ounces. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of suet and put it on a board. 4. We take a knife, cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 5. We should sprinkle flour over the suet to prevent it sticking to the board or knife. 6. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash them well in cold water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 7. We take up the currants in handsful and drop them, a few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are any stones mixed with the currants.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Plum Pudding. 297 Now it is finished. 8. We take a quarter of a pound of large raisins and stone them. 9. We take two ounces of mixed candied peel’ i.e., citron, lemon, and orange, and cut them up into small pieces. N.B.—If disliked, the candied peel may be omitted. 10. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin, and add to it the chopped sitet, quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 11. We rub the suet well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 12. We now add the bread crumbs, the currants and raisins, two ounces of moist sugar, the pieces of candied peel’ and mix all well with a wooden spoon. N.B.—If preferred, treacle may be used instead of sugar. 13. We break two eggs into a basin, add to them one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk and beat them up. 14. We now stir the milk and eggs into the pudding and mix all well together. 15. We take a cloth, wring it out of hot water, flour it, and lay it over a quart basin. N.B.—We should be careful that the cloth is strong and that there are no holes in it. 16. We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre \>f the floured cloth. 17. We hold up the four corners of the cloth and tie up the pudding tightly with a piece of string. 18. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil for tzvo hours. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 19. For serving, we take the pudding out of the cloth and turn it on to a hot dish.298 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 23. TAPIOCA AND APPLES. Average cost of “ Stewed Tapioca and ApplesV INGREDIENTS. d. 2 tablespoonsful of Tapioca o| 6 apples 2 4 cloves and the peel of half a lemon i 2 tablespoonsful of sugar oj 4 Time required {after the tapioca has soaked twelve hours), about three- quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a stew of Tapioca and Apples. 1. We put two tablespoonsful of tapioca into a basin with one pint of water, and let it soak for twelve hours. N.B.—This should be done over-night. 2. We take six apples, peel, quarter, and core them. 3. We put in four cloves (for flavouring). 4. We take one lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel half of it very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful not to cut any of the white, as it is very bitter. 5. We put the soaked tapioca into a large saucepan, with the lemon peel, and two tablespoonsful of pounded white sugar. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir it well until it boils. N.B.—We should be careful not to let any stick to the bottom. 7. We let it boil for ten minutes, until the tapioca has become clear. 8. After that time we put the apples into the saucepan, arranging them at the bottom, so that they are covered with the tapioca.Now it is finished. Lessons on Puddings.— Tapioca and Apples. 299 9. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the apples stew gently for from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to their size. 10. We must not let them boil, or they will break. 11. When they are stewed quite tender, we take them out of the saucepan and put them on a dish. 12. We pour the tapioca over the apples. N.B.—If liked, the tapioca sauce can be coloured by stirring in about half a teaspoonful of cochineal.300 National Training School for Cookery. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 24. INVALID PUDDING. Average cost of “ Invalid Pudding ” (half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 3 tablespoonsful of chopped suet 2% 3 do. bread crumbs 1 3 do. flour o| 3 do. moist sugar oj 3 do. milk o-j _6| Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to make an Invalid Pudding. 1. We take about a quarter of a pound of mutton suet, put it upon a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. 2. When it is chopped there should be about three table- spoonsful. N.B.—Mutton suet is much lighter of digestion than beef suet. 3. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire to boil. 4. We take a piece of bread and a grater, and grate some bread crumbs on to a piece of paper. There should be about three tablespoonsful of bread crumbs. 5. We put the bread crumbs and the chopped suet into a basin with three tablespoonsful of flour and three table- spoonsful of moist sugar. 6. We mix all these well together. 7. We now break in two eggs, and add three tablespoonsfid of milk, and stir all well together with a spoon. 8. We take a half-pint pudding basin and grease it well inside.Now it is finished. Lessons on Making Puddings.—Invalid Pudding. 301 9. We pour the mixture into the basin. 10. We take a cloth, dip it in hot water, and flour it. 11. We put this cloth over the top of the basin, and tie it on with a piece of string, just under the rim of the basin. 12. We tie the four corners of the cloth together loosely over the top of the basin. 13. We put this basin into the saucepan of boiling water, but we must be very careful that the water only reaches half way up the basin, or it will boil over and get into the pudding. 14. We let the pudding steam for one hour and a half. N.B.—We keep a kettle of water boiling to add to the water in the saucepan as it boils away. 15. After that time we take the basin out of the sauce- pan, take off the cloth, and carefully turn the pudding out on to a warm dish.302 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 25. SEMOLINA PUDDING. Average cost of “ Semolina Pudding INGREDIENTS. d. | pint milk i| 1 tablespoonful crushed semolina o| 1 egg 1 dessertspoonful moist sugar Butter and nutmeg Time required, about twenty-five minutes. o\ 3k Now we will show you how to make a Semolina Pudding. 1. We put half a pint of milk and one tablespoonful of semolina into a saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir occasionally until it boils and swells, then we set it by the side of the fire. 3. We break one egg into a basin and add to it a dessert- spoonful of moist sugar and beat them lightly together with a fork. 4. We take a three-quarters of a pint pie-dish and grease it inside with a piece of bittter. 5. When the semolina is sufficiently cool, we stir in lightly the sweetened egg. 6. We pour this mixture into the pie-dish. 7. We take a grater and a nutmeg and grate a quarter of a teaspoonful over the mixture. 8. We put the dish into the oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for a quarter of an hour. N.B.—Puddings can be made in the same way with sago, tapioca, or rice.Lessons on Puddings.—Batter and Fruit. 303 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 26. BATTER AND FRUIT. Average cost of “ Batter and Fruit Pudding” {one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour Salt J pint milk 2 eggs 5 lb. fruit \ oz. butter Sugar d. of if 2 of °* O? Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Batter Pudding with fruit in it. 1. We take a quarter of a pound of flour and put it in a basin. 2. We add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 3. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk. 4. When it has become sufficiently liquid, we should beat it with a spoon instead of stirring it, as that will make it lighter. 5. We break an egg into a cup, and then add it to the batter, beating it up lightly all the time, until it is thoroughly mixed. 6. We then break a second egg into the cup and add it to the batter, mixing it thoroughly as before. N.B.—Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup to see if they are good before cooking. The more the batter is beaten the lighter it becomes. 7. We take a pint and a half pie-dish and grease it well inside with butter. 8. We pour the batter into the pie-dish.304 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We take a quarter of a pound of damsons (or any other fruit), and wipe them with a cloth to be sure that they are quite clean. 10. We sprinkle the fruit into the batte.t, and put two or three bits of butter on the top to prevent its being dry. 11. We put the pie-dish into the oven (the heat should be 220°) to bake for half an hour. 12. After that time we take the pie-dish out of the oven and sprinkle some sugar over the top. N.B.—Sugar should, of course, be eaten with the batter pudding. N.B.—If sugar was added to the batter before it was baked it would make it heavy.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Cold Cabinet. 305 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 27. COLD CABINET PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Cold Cabinet Pudding” (one pint mould). INGREDIENTS. 6 sponge finger biscuits 2 oz. ratafias \ pint of milk | oz. of best gelatine The yolks of 4 eggs 2 oz. of dried cherries I Two or three pieces of angelica / | a gill of cream 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar .. j. d. o 3 o 2 o li o o 4 o ijj o 3 o 2 Time reqtdred to make, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cold Cabinet Pudding. 1. We take a pint mould and ornament the bottom of it (according to taste) with the dried cherries, and pieces of angelica. 2. We split the sponge-biscuits in half, and line the inside of the tin with them and the ratafias in the moidd. N.B.—We must place the biscuits only round the sides of the tin (not over the bottom), arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. 3. We break four eggs, put the yolks in a basin (the whites we put aside, as they are not required for present, use), and beat them well with a wooden spoon. 4. We stir half a pint of milk into the eggs, and pour the mixture into a jug. 5. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil, when the water boils we move the saucepan to the side of the fire. u306 National Training School for Cookery. • Now it is finished. 6. We stand the jug in the saucepan, and stir the custard very smoothly until it thickens and becomes the substance of creamy but it must not boil or it will curdle. 7. We put half an ounce of gelatine in a small stewpan or gallipot, with a tablespoonfid of water, and stand it near the fire to melt. 8. When the custard is sufficiently thick, we take the jug out of the saucepan and stand it aside to cool. N.B.—We should place a piece of paper over the mouth of the jug to pre- vent the dust getting in. 9. We stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 10. We pour the melted gelatine through a strainer into the custard. 11. We also add half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cream, a teaspoonfid of essence of vanilla, and a table- spoonfid of castor sugar. 12. We pour it all on the cakes in the mould. 13. We stand the mould in a cold place to set; in summer time it should be placed on ice. 14. When the pudding is quite cold and set, we turn it out carefully on to a dish, and it is ready for serving.Lessons on Making Puddings.—Suet Pudding. 307 PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 28. SUET PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Suet Pudding ” (about two pounds). INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of suet 4 1 lb. of flour 2£ 1 teaspoonful of baking powder Oj Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to make a Suet Pudding. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2.. We take half a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut away all the skin, and chop the suet up as finely as possible with a sharp knife. 3. We put one pound of flour into a basin, with one tea- spoonful of baking powder. 4. We add the chopped suet and rub it well into the flour with our hands. N.B.—We must be careful not to have any lumps. 5. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a stiff paste. 6. We take a strong pudding cloth, wring it out in boiling water, and sprinkle flour over it. 7. We turn the paste out on to the cloth, hold up the ends of the cloth, and tie it tightly round the pudding with a piece of string, leaving room for the pudding to swell. 8. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the pudding, and let it boil gently for one hour and a half. N.B.—We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan as the water in it boils away. 9. For serving, we take the pudding out of the saucepan, take off the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. N.B.—This pudding can be eaten with meat, or it can be eaten with sugar, jam, or treacle. Now it is finished. u 2308 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PUDDINGS. Lesson No. 29. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Average cost of a “ Yorkshire Pudding ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 8 oz. of flour ij 1 pint of milk 2 2 of a teaspoonful of baking powder \ x Salt ) °* 2 eggs 2 5l Time required, one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Yorkshire Pudding. 1. We put eight ounces of flour into a basin and mix into it half of a teaspoonful of baking powder and half a salt- spoonful of salt. 2. We break two eggs into the flour and stir it well. 3. We now add by degrees a pint of milk, beating all the time with a wooden spoon to make the batter as smooth and as light as possible. 4. We take a pudding tin (about a pint), place it under the meat that is roasting in front of the fire, to catch some dripping to grease the tin. 5. We then pour the batter into the tin and let it cook under the meat tor half an hour, or put it in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. 6. We must watch it, and turn the tin, so that tht pudding does not get burnt. N.B.—It is better to make hatter some time before it is required to be used, so that it may rise. N.B.—A commoner and more substantial Yorkshire pudding can be made in the same way as above, only with 6 oz. of flour, 1 egg, 1 pint of milk, and 1 tablespoonful of chopped suet sprinkled over the batter when it is poured into the tin. 7. When the pudding is sufficiently cooked, we turn it carefully out of the tin on to a hot dish, and it is then ready for serving with the roast meat.Lessons on Making Dumplings.—Hard. 309 Now it is finished. DUMPLINGS. Lesson No. i. HARD DUMPLINGS. Average cost of “ Hard Dumplings ” (about five). INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour Salt H Time required, about twenty-five minutes. Now we will show you how to make Hard Dumplings. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin, and mix in it half a saltspoonful of salt. 3. We now add enough cold water to make it into a firm dough. 4. We flour our hands and divide the dough into pieces about the size of an egg, and roll each piece into a smooth ball, without a crack in it. 5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we drop in the dumplings and let them boil for twenty minutes. N.B.—They are best boiled with meat, either salt beef ox pork. 6. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, put them on a hot dish, and they are ready lor serving.310 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. DUMPLINGS. Lesson No. 2. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. Average cost of “Norfolk Dumplings” (about ten). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of patent flour \ Water J 3 3 Time required, about half-an-hour. Now we will show you how to make Norfolk Dumplings. 1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We put one pound of patent flour into a basin. 3. We add to it enough cold water to make it into a smooth dough ;—it must not be too stiff. 4. We form this dough into round balls about the size of a large egg. N.B.—This quantity will make about ten dumplings. 5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we put in the dumplings, and let them boil for twenty minutes. 6. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, and they are then ready for serving.Lessons on Making Jellies.— Wine Jelly. 311 JELLIES. Lesson No. i. WINE JELLY. Average cost of “ Wine Jelly from Calves' Feet” (about one quart). s. d. 1 8 o 3 o 2 o o| o 6 o 3 2 io| Time required : the jelly stock should he made the day before required for use ; to finish making it, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make about one quart of Wine Jelly from Calves Feet. 1. We take two calves feet and put them on a board. 2. We chop each foot in four pieces with a chopper. 3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water and wash them well. 4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a stew-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. N.B.—This is to blanch them. 5. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 6. When the water boils we take the stew-pan and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 7. We take the pieces of \h<z feet out of the stew-pan with a fork and put them in a basin of cold water and wash them well. 8. We empty the water out of the stew-pan. 9. We wash the stew-pan well. INGREDIENTS. 2 calves’ feet 2 lemons 2 oz. of loaf sugar 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon 4 cloves x wine-glass of sherry Half a wine-glass of brandy ..312 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We take the pieces of the feet out of the basin and put them in the stew-pan with five pints of cold water. N.B.—This stock will be reduced to about one pint and a half, when it is sufficiently boiled. 11. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 12. We must watch it and skim it often with a skimming spoon. 13. We must let it boil very gently for five hours. 14. After that time we strain, oft* the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin. 15. We must put this basin in a cool place for some hours, until the stock is perfectly cold and is in a jelly. 16. We now take this basin of jelly stock and skim oft* all the fat carefully with a spoon. 17. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 18. We take this damp cloth and dab it over the jelly stock, so as to remove every particle of grease. 19. We take a clean dry cloth and rub lightly over the jelly stock to dry it. 20. We take tivo lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and peel them very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make the jelly bitter. 21. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 22. We squeeze the juice of the two lemons through a strainer into the stew-pan. 23. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin, and the whites in another. 24. We whip the whites of the eggs slightly, but not very stiff. 25. We put the zvhipped white of the egg into the stew- pan and the crushed egg shell. 26. We put in also two ounces of loaf sugar, one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and four cloves. 27. We whip all these together with a whisk.Lessons on Making Je Hies.— Wine Jelly. 313 28. We now add the jelly stock. 29. We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well till it boils. 30. We now put the lid on the stew-pan, and stand it by the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust- 31. We place the jelly bag stand in front of the fire, and hang the jelly bag in it, we must put a basin on the stand underneath the jelly bag. N.B.—We must be sure that the jelly lag is quite clean. 32. We take a jug of boiling water, and pour it through the jelly bag. 33. We must do this four or jive times, always using boiling water until the bag is quite warm. 34. We must look at the jelly in the stew-pan, and when the crust is formed, it is ready to be strained. N.B.—We must be sure that there is no water left in the bag, before passing the jelly through, and the basin in the stand should be quite dry. N.B.—The pouring of the jelly into the bag forces the water (the few drops that remain) first out into the basin ; these first few drops should be thrown away and a clean basin put in its place immediately. 35. We now take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 36. We repeat this two or three times, until the jelly runs through quite clear. N.B.—We must be careful in pouring the jelly through the bag, that we do not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the bag, which will serve as a filter. 37. We add a wineglass fid 0f sherry, and half a wineglassful of brandy, or any other wine or liqueur according to taste. 38. We take a quart mould, scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in cold water. 39. We place the mould in ice. N.B.—We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 40. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the bottom of the mould. 41. When this jelly has set slightly, we can garnish the mould with grapes, strawberries, &c., according to taste. 42. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the mould, and let it stand in the ice, until it is firmly set.314 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 43. When the jelly is required for use, we dip the mould into a basin of hot water for about a second. 44. We shake the mould to loosen the jelly, place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, so as not to break it.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Aspic Jelly. 315 JELLIES. Lesson No. 2. ASPIC JELLY. Average cost of “ Savoury or Aspic Jelly ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. 2 calves’ feet 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal Salt 30 peppercorns 2 blades of mace 1 clove of garlic I 2 shallots / 1 sprig of thyme Two or three sprigs of parsley. 1 onion, stuck with four cloves ) 1 leek \ a head of celery 2 carrots 1 turnip 1 sprig of tarragon. 1 sprig of chervil 2 bay leaves The rind of i lemon The juice of 3 lemons The whites of 2 eggs 1 lb. of lean veal 1 gill of chablis or sherry 2 tablespoonsful of French vinegar, s. d. 1 8 1 4 o 1 o o O X o 6 o 2 o 10 o 6 o 2 5 8| Time reqitired {the jelly stock should be made the day before) to finish making it, if not decorated, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make one quart of Savoury or Aspic Jelly. 1. We take two calves' feet and put them on a board. 2. We chop the feet in eight pieces with a chopper. 3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water and wash them well. 4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a stew-pan, with sufficient cold water to cover them. 5. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. N.B.—This is to blanch them.316 Natio7ial Training School for Cookery. 6. When the water boils, we take the stew-pan off, and stand it on a piece of paper, on the table. 7. We take the pieces of feet out of the stew-pan with a fork, put them in a basin of cold water, and wash them well. 8. We empty the water out of the stew-pan. 9. We wash the stew-pan well. 10. We take the pieces of feet out of the basin, and put them back into the stew-pan. 11. We take two pounds of knuckle of veal and put it on a board. 12. We take a sharp knife, and cut off the meat from the bone. 13. We put the meat and the bone into the stew-pan, with the feet. 14. We pour in five pints op water, put the stew-pan on the fire, and just bring it to the boil. 15. We must watch it, and skim it with a spoon. 16. We now add half a teaspoonfid op salt, thirty pepper- corns, two blades of mace, one clove of garlic, two shallots, one sprig of thyme, and two or three sprigs of parsley. 17. We take an onion, peel it, and stick four cloves in it. 18. We take one leek, and half a head of celery, and wash them in cold water. 19. We take two carrots, wash them, and scrape them clean. 20. We take a tier nip, wash it and peel it. 21. We put all these vegetables into the stew-pan. 22. We also add one sprig of tarragon, one sprig of chervil, and two bay leaves. 23. We let all these boil gently for five hours. 24. After that time, we strain off the liquor, through a hair sieve into a basin. 25. We must put this basin into a cool place, for some hours until the stock is perfectly cold, and in a jelly.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Aspic Jelly. 317 26. We now take the basin of jelly, and skim off all the fat carefully with a spoon. 27. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 28. We take this damp cloth, and dab it over the jelly stock, so as to remove every particle of grease. 29. We take a clean dry cloth, and rub lightly over the jelly stock, to dry it. 30. We take one lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly, with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful in peeling the lemon not to cut any of the pith, as it would make the jelly bitter. 31. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 32. We squeeze the juice of three lemons, through a strainer, into the stew-pan. 33. We whip the whites of two eggs slightly, but not very stiff. 34. We put the whipped whites of the eggs into the stew- pan also the egg shells. 35. We take one pound of lean veal put it on a board, and chop it up finely. 36. We put this chopped veal in the stew-pan. 37. We pour in one gill of chablis or sherry, and two tablespoonsfid of French vinegar. 38. We add salt and pepper to taste, and whip altogether with a whisk. 39. We put in the jelly stock. 40. We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well until it boils. 41. We now take a large spoon and skim it carefully if necessary. 42. We put the stew-pan by the side of the fire, and let it stand for half an hour to form a crust. 43. We take a clean soup cloth, or a jelly bag, and fix it on the stand. 44. We take a large basin, and place it below the cloth.3i 8 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 45. We take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the con- tents into the cloth, and let it all pass into the basin. N.B.—The chopped veal acts as a filter to the jelly. 46. After the jelly has all passed through, we remove the basin, and put a clean one in its place. 47. We take a soup ladle, and pour a ladle-ful of the jelly, at a time, over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass for the second time, very slowly, into the basin. N.B.—We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped veal, which settles at the bottom of the cloth. 48. If a border mould of Aspic jelly be required, we take the mould, scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in cold water. N.B.—If the Aspic jelly is only required for garnishing cold meats, &c., we stand the basin of j elly on ice, or in a cool place, until it be firmly set; we can then cut the jelly into fancy shapes, or chop it up finely with a knife. 49. We place the mould in ice. N.B.—We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 50. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the bottom of the mould. 51. When this jelly has slightly set, we can garnish the mould with fish or vegetables, &c., according to taste, or with what it is to be served. 52. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the mould, and let it stand in the ice until it is firmly set. 53. When the jelly is required for use, we dip the mould into a basin of hot water for about a second. 54. We shake the mould to loosen the jelly, and place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, so as not to break it. N.B.—The centre of the mould can be filled with a salad of mixed vegetables. (See No. 13 in Entries, Lesson No. 5.)Lessons on Making Jellies.—Iceland Moss. 319 JELLIES. Lesson No. 3. ICELAND MOSS. Average cost of “ Water Jelly or Milk Jelly made with Iceland Moss ” (about one quart). INGREDIENTS. For Water 'Jelly. d. 1 oz. of Iceland Moss .... I 1 quart of water J 1 2 tablespoonsful of pounded loaf sugar | (To be eaten with wine or milk.) For Milk Jelly. d. i oz. of Iceland Moss . i 1 quart of milk 4 2 tablespoonsful of pounded loaf sugar 1 Time required [after the Iceland Moss has soaked all night), for “ Water Jelly," about one hour ; for *‘ Milk Jelly," about two hours. Now we will show you how to make Jelly with Iceland Moss. 1. We wash one oz. of Iceland Moss well in cold water. 2. We then put it in a basin of cold'water, and let it soak all night. 3. After that time we take it out of the water and squeeze it dry in a cloth. 4. We then put it in a saucepan with one quart of cold water. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil for one hour; we must stir it frequently. 6. We then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and sweeten it with loaf sugar. 7. It can be taken with either wine or milk according- to taste. sNow it is finished. 320 National Training School for Cookay, For Milk Jelly:— 1. We boil the moss in the same quantity of milk instead of water (after it has been soaked) as above, only for two hours instead of one hour. 2. We then strain it into a basin and sweeten with loaf sugar according to taste. 3. When it is cold we turn the jelly out of the basin on to a dish and it is ready for use.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Milk Jelly. 321 JELLIES. Lesson No. 4. MILK JELLY FROM COW-HEEL, AND THE MEAT SERVED WITH ONION SAUCE. Average cost of about one quart of “Milk Jelly" and the meat served with the onion sauce— INGREDIENTS. Milk Jelly. 1 cow-heel 6 1 quart of milk 4 2 inches of the stick of \ cinnamon > o£ Sugar J io| Onion Sauce. d. 3 or 4 onions i| 2 pint of milk 1 2 an oz. of flour 1 a 2 an oz. of butter / °* 3* Time requiredabout four hours. Now we will show you how to make a Milk Jelly from Cow-heel. 1. We buy a dressed cow-heel from a tripe shop. 2. We put the cow-heel on a board, and cut it up into small pieces. 3. We put these pieces into an earthen jar or a saucepan with one quart of milk and two inches of the stick oj cinnamon. 4. We put the lid on the top of the jar, put a piece of paper over the lid, and tie it tightly down. 5. We put the jar into a very slow oven to stew for at least three hours. 6. If there is no oven to the stove, we can stand the jar by the side of the fire to stew. N.B.—It reduces less if stewed in the oven. 7. When the stew is finished we take the jar out of the oven, take off the lid, and strain the milk into a basin, an i sweeten it according to taste. x322 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 8. We put the basin aside till the jelly is set; it may be eaten hot or cold according to taste. For serving the Cow-Heel with Onion Sauce:— 1. We take three or four onions, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 2. We put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil till the onions are quite tender ; it will take about one hour. 4. After that time we strain off the milk into a basin, put the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 5. We put half an ounce of butter into the saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 6. When the butter is melted we add half an ounce of flour, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. 7. We pour the milk in gradually, stirring it till it boils and thickens. 8. We then add the onions, season with pepper and salt according to taste ; and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 9. We put the pieces of cow-heel into the sauce, and let them warm through. 10. For serving we put the pieces of cow-heel on a hot dish, and pour over them the onion sauce. N.B.—The meat from the cow-heel might be served as a curry. The curry should be made in the same way as described in "Cooked Meat,” Lesson No. 4. N.B.—1The bones of the cow-heel should be put into the stock-pot.Lessons on Making Jellies.-—Ox Foot Jelly. 323 JELLIES. Lesson No. 5. JELLY AND STEW FROM OX FOOT. Average cost of about one quart of “ Jelly and a stew made from Ox Foot.— INGREDIENTS. For Jelly. s. d. 1 ox foot 1 o | lb. of lump sugar .... o I x egg o 1 2 lemons o 2 Spices o o| 1 4f For Stew. d. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, x onion „, if f oz. of dripping of f oz. of butter of Flour and seasoning of 4 Jelly flavoured with porter would be is. 2Id. Time required :— 1st day to stew the foot 7 hours. 2nd day to finish jelly if ,, To make stew if ,, Total 10 hours. Now we will show you how to make a jelly from Ox Foot. 1. We take a scalded ox foot, put it in cold water, and wash it well. 2. We take it oqt'bf the water, dry it in a cloth, and put it on a board. 3. We cut the foot with a sharp knife across the first joint and down between the hoofs, and chop the long piece in half. 4. We put these pieces into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover* them. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire and just bring it to the boil. x 2324 National Training School for Cookery. 6. We then take the pieces out, and wash them thoroughly in a basin of cold water. 7. We empty the water out of the saucepan, and wash it out well. 8. We put the pieces of foot back in the saucepan, cover- ing them well with cold water (about two quarts will be enough for a moderate sized foot). 9. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils we should move it to the side of the fire and let it stew gently for six hours. 10. We must watch it and skim it carefully with a spoon from time to time. 11. After that time we strain off the stock into a basin, and put it aside to cool. N.B.—The foot we should put aside until required for use. 12. When the stock is quite cold we take an iron spoon, dip it in hot water, and carefully skim off the fat. 13. We take a clean cloth, dip it in hot water, and wipe over the top of the jelly, so as to remove every particle of fat. N.B.—For Porter Jelly, see below. 14. We take two lemons, wipe them with a cloth to be sure that they are quite clean, and peel them very thinly with a sharp knife. N.B.—We must be careful in peeling the lemons not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make the jelly bitter. 15. We put the peel of one lemon into the stewpan or saucepan. 16. We cut the lemons in halves, and squeeze the juice of the two into the saucepan. N.B.—We must be careful to remove all the pips. 17. We take one egg, put the yolk in one basin and the white in another. 18. We whip up the white of the egg slightly. 19. We put the whipped white of the egg and the egg shell into the saucepan. 20. We put in a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, half an inch of the stick of cinnamon, four cloves, and about a quarter oj an inch of saffron.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Ox-foot Jelly. 325 Now it is finished. 21. We now add the jelly stock. 22. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the con- tents well with a whisk or iron spoon until it boils. 23. We now put the lid on the saucepan, and stand it by the side of the fire for twenty minutes or half an hour. 24. If there is 110 jelly bag we should take a clean cloth folded over cornerways, and sew it up one side, making it in the shape of a jelly bag. 25. We place two chairs back to back in front of the fire. 26. We take the sewn up cloth, hang it between the two chairs, by pinning it open to the top bar of each chair. 27. We must place a basin underneath the bag. 28. We must look at the jelly in the saucepan, and when there is a good crust formed over, it is ready to be strained. 29. We then take the saucepan off the fire and pour the jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 30. We repeat this two or three times until the jelly runs through quite clear. N.B.—A glass of wine may be added now if desired. 31. We take a quart basin or a mould, scald it with hot water, and then rinse it out with cold. 32. We pour the jelly into the basin and stand it aside to cool and set until it is required for use. N.B.—If porter jelly is required we put the jelly-stock into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, half a teaspoonful of mixed spice, and half a pint of porter'; we put it on the fire and let it boil for an hour and a half, stirring occasionally ; we then strain it in the same way as for the lemon jelly.326 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. Now we will show you how to make a stew of the meat of the foot. 1. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it in slices with a sharp knife. 2. We take a small tiirnip and an onion, peel them, and cut them in slices. 3. We put these vegetables into a saucepan with half an ounce of clarified dripping. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the vegetables fry a light brown ; we must be careful they do not burn. 5. We cut the meat off the bones of the foot, cut it up into nice pieces, and season them with pepper and salt according to taste. 6. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan with the vegetables. 7. We then pour in one pint of cold water, just bring it to the boil, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire to stew gently one hour or till the vegetables are tender. 8. We then strain off the liquor and put the vegetables and meat on a dish. 9. We put the dish near the fire to keep warm. 10. We put half an ounce of butter into the saucepan and put it on the fire to melt. 11. When the bidter is melted we add half an ounce of f our, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 12. We stir in gradually the liquor, and stir it till it boils and thickens. 13. We then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire. N.B.—The sauce can be coloured with burnt sugar or a browned onion. 14. We now place in the meat and the vegetables, and let them just warm through. 15. We serve this stew on a hot dish with boiled potatoes (see Vegetables, Lesson No. 1), or rice (see Rice, Lesson No. 1). N.B.—The bones of the foot should be put in the stock-pot.Lessons on Making Jellies.—Apple Jelly. 327 JELLIES. Lesson No. 6. APPLE JELLY. Average cost of “ Apple Jelly ” (about one and a half pint). INGREDIENTS. 1 pound of apples 4 1 lemon 2 3 oz. of lump sugar 1 1 oz. of gelatine 3 ! a teaspoonful of cochineal 1 11 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Apple Jelly. 1. We take one pound of apples, peel them with a sharp knife, cut them in half, take out the core, and then cut the apples in small pieces. 2. We put the apples in a stewpan with three ounces of lump sugar and half a pint op water. 3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth. 4. We take a grater and grate the rind of the lemon over the apples. N.B.—We should be very careful only to grate the yellow peel of the lemon, as the white rind is very bitter. 5. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice through a strainer on the apples. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and cook the apples quite tender. 7. We must stir the apples occasionally to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. 8. We put one ounce of gelatine in a gallipot or small saucepan with half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cold water, and stand it by the side of the fire to dissolve.328 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. When the apples are cooked to a pulp, we place a hair sieve over a basin and rub the apples through with a wooden spoon. 10. We now stir the melted gelatine into the apple. N.B.—We must be very careful that the gelatine is quite smoothly dissolved there should be no lumps. N.B.—If liked, part of the apple might be coloured by stirring in half a tea- spoonful of cochineal. 11. We take a pint and a half mould, rinse it out in boiling water and then in cold water. 12. We can ornament the bottom of the mould with pistachio nuts cut in small pieces, or preserved cherries, according to taste. 13. We now pour the apple in the mould, and if part of the apple is coloured we should fill the mould with alternate layers of coloured and plain apple. 14. We stand the mould aside in a cool place to set the apple. 15. For serving we dip the mould in boiling water for a second and then turn out the apple jelly carefully on to a dish. N.B.—Half a pint of double cream whipped to a stiff froth should be served with the apple jelly, either put round the edge of the dish or in the centre of the moiild.Wessons on Making Creams.-—Vanilla Cream. 329 CREAMS. Lesson No. i. VANILLA CREAM. Average cost of “ Vanilla Cream ” (about a pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. 3 percrq r 11 T f . t . T s. d. O 4 pint of milk 0 1 2 an ounce of best gelatine 2 pint of double cream 3 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar °T 2 teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla °k 1 95 Time required for making, about three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Vanilla Cream. 1. We take the yolks of three eggs and one white, put them into a basin, and beat them well with a wooden spoon. 2. We stir in half a pmt of milk. 3. We pour this mixture into a jug. 4. We take a saucepan half full of hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 5. When the water is quite boiling, we move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire. 6. We stand the jug of custard in the saucepan of boiling water, and stir the mixture very smoothly until it thickens and becomes the substance of cream. N.B.—We must stir it very carefully and watch it continually that it does not curdle. 7. When the citstard is sufficiently thick, we take the jug out of the water and stand it aside to cool. 8. We put half an ounce of the best gelatine in a small stew-pan, with half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cold water to soak and swell.330 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We then put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 10. We pour this melted gelatine through a strainer and stir it into the custard. 11. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and whisk it to a stiff froth with the whisk. 12. We add to it a tablespoonful of castor sugar and half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. N.B.—If any other flavouring be preferred, it should be now added, instead of the essence of Vanilla. 13. When ‘the custard is sufficiently cooled, we stir it lightly into the wMpped cream. 14. We take a>fpint and a half mould,, scald it with hot water, and then rinse it out with cold. 15. We pour the cream into the mould, and stand it in ice, until required for use. 16. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling water for a second, shake it to loosen the cream, and then turn it out carefully on to a dish. N.B.—This is an economical recipe for making cream, but if made entirely of cream, instead of cream and custard, it would of course be richer.Lessons on Making'Creams.—Strawberry Cream. 331 CREAMS. Lesson No. 2. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Average cost of “ Strawberry Cream ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. 1 pint oftresh strawberries 21 ozs. of castor sugar j an oz. of the best gelatine The juice of one lemon ... _ | pint of good cream Time required, abotit half an hour. Now wO will show you how to make a Straivberry Cream. 1. We take a pint of fresh strawberries, and put them on a board. 2. We must pick them over, and put aside any that are not quite good. 3. We must stalk them, and put them in a basin. 4. We sprinkle over them half an ounce of white castor sugar, which will help to draw out the juice. 5. We take a silk sieve and place it over a basin. N.B.—A hair sieve could be used instead. 6. We pass the fruit through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 7. We put half an ounce of the best gelatine into a small stewpan, with half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of cold water, to soak and to swell. 8. We then put the stewpan on the fire, ancj stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 9. We add two ounces of castor sugar, and squeeze the iuice of one lemon through a strainer into the stewpan,Now it is finished. 332 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We pour this mixture through a strainer, and stir it into the strawberries in the basin, and mix them well together. 11. We pour half a pint of good cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 12. We now add this cream to the strawberries in the basin, and stir them lightly together. 13. We take a pint mould, scald it with hot water, and then rinse it out with cold. 14. We pour the strawberry cream into the mould, and stand it in icey until required for use. 15. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling water for a second, shake it to loosen the cream) and then turn it out carefully on to a dish.Lessons on Making Creams.—-Charlotte Russe. 333 CREAMS. Lesson No. 3. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Average cost of “ Charlotte Russe ” (about one pint). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 12 sponge finger biscuits o 6 \ oz. of the best gelatine o i£ i gill of milk o 5 pint of double cream i 3 1 dessertspoonful of sifted sugar o o| 30 drops of essence of Vanilla o 1 2 Oj Time reqtiiredfor making, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Charlotte Russe. 1. We take a pint tin, and line it inside with sponge finger biscuits. N.B.—We must be careful to fit the biscuits close to each other, so that they form a wall of themselves. 2. We take a knife and cut off the tops of the finger biscuits that stand above the tin. 3. We put half an ounce of the best gelatine in a small stewpan, with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cold milk, to soak and swell. 4. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 5. We add to it a dessertspoonfid of sifted castor sugar, and thirty drops of essence of vanilla. 6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine until it is quite melted. 7. We stir the melted gelatine into the cream, pouring it through a strainer. 8. We pour this cream into the tin. N.B.—We must be careful, in pouring in the cream, not to disarrange the finger biscuits. 9. We stand this tin in ice, until it is required for use. 10. For serving, we dip the tin into hot water {or a second, shake the tin to loosen the cream, and turn it carefully on to a dish. N.B.—A more economical Charlotte Russe might be made by using a quarter of a pint of custard to a quarter of a pint of cream (as in “ Creams,’ Lesson No. 1). Now it is finished.334 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. ' Lesson No. i. VANILLA SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Vanilla Souffle {about one and a half pint) and the sauce to be served with it. INGREDIENTS. d. 4 eggs 4 oz. of butter at is. 6d. lb i| A dessertspoonful of sugar \ 1 oz. of flour f \ a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla 1 1 Salt ) 1 gill of milk o| 7k Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. For Wine Sauce. 1 oz. of sugar o| 1 tablespoonful of jam 2 Wine glass of sherry 6 | a teaspoonful of lemon-juice 1 92 Time required, about ten minutes. For Custard Sauce. d. 1 egg 1 Sugar and 6 drops of Vanilla o» 1 gill of milk 1 o| Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Steamed Vanilla Souffle Pudding. 1. We must prepare the tin for the souffle pudding. 2. We take a pint and a half tin and butter it well inside, using our fingers for that purpose. 3. We take a piece of paper and fold it so as to make a band round the tin, allowing about two inches of paper to stand up above the tin. 4. We butter the part of the paper above the tin with a knife. 5. We put the paper round the outside of the tin and tie it on with string.Lessons on Making Soufflds.— Vanilla Souffle. 335 6. We take a stewpan and just melt one ounce of butter in it over the fire. 7. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 8. We add one ounce of flour to the melted butter, and mix them both well together. 9. We then add rather more than a dessertspoonful of pounded sugar. 10. We add one gill of milk (a gill is a quarter of a pint). 11. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon until it thickens. 12. We then take the stewpan off the fire again. 13. We add to the mixture the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and beat all well together. 14. We take the three whites and put them in a basin with one more white to make four, adding half a saltspoonful of salt, and then whip the whites quite stiff. 15. We add the whites to the above mixture and stir it lightly. 16. We now add the flavouring—half a teaspoonful of Vanilla essence. N.B.—If the essence is very strong, or the bottle newly opened, so much is not required. 17. We mix all together and pour it into the buttered tin. 18. We have ready a saucepan half filled with hot water, and put it on the fire to boil. 19. When the water boils we stand the tin in it, but we must be careful that the water does not reach the paper round the tin, for it is only the steam which cooks the pudding. 20. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the pudding steam from twenty to thirty minutes. 21. We must watch it, not letting the water boil too fast, or the saucepan will get dry and thspudding will burn.336 National Training School for Cookery. 22. When it is sufficiently steamed, we take the tin out of the saucepan of water. N.B.—To test if the pudding is done, we should touch the centre of the pudding with our finger ; it should feel firm. 23. We shake the tin and turn the Souffle Pudding out on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it, which we must prepare while the souffle is being steamed. N.B.—If a baked Vanilla Souffl6 Pudding is required, we put the tin in a quick oven (the heat should be 240°) to bake for half an hour, instead of putting it in the boiling water. No sauce is then wanted. Now we will make the sauce for the Steamed Vanilla Souffle Pudding. For Wine Sauce. 1. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of loaf sugar and one gill (or quarter pint) of cold water. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the sugar and water with a spoon until the sugar has quite melted, and it has become a smooth syrup reduced in quantity. 3. We put into it a tablespoonfid of apricot jam. 4. We stir it all together over the fire to melt the jam. 5. We add a wine glassful of sherry and half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. We stir it all again. 6. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce round the souffle pudding. N.B. We must pour the sauce round the pudding very carefully, so as not to drop any of it on the side of it. We can make a Custard Sauce if preferred : 1. We break a whole egg in a basin and whip it well. 2. We add half a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. 3. We add one gill (quarter pint) of milky and six drops of Vanilla essence. 4. We pour all the mixture into a jug or gallipot. 5. We get a large saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire.Lessons on Making Soufflds.— Vanilla Souffle. 337 Now it is finished. 6. We stand the gallipot in a saucepan. N.B.—The water must only come halfway up the gallipot. 7. We stir the mixture in the gallipot with a wooden spoon. 8. As soon as the mixture has thickened we take the gallipot out of the saucepan. 9. We pour the custard round the Souffle Pudding.338 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. 2. CHEESE SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Cheese Souffle!* INGREDIENTS. x oz. of butter and i oz. of flour 1 teaspoonful of mignonette pepper . Salt and pepper, and cayenne pepper 1 gill of milk 3 eggs 3 oz. of Parmesan cheese d. °2 OA of % Io| Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make a Cheese Souffle. 1. We take a stewpan, and put into it one ounce of butter. 2. We add one teaspoonful of mignonette pepper. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let the pepper fry in the butter (to extract the flavour of the pepper) for two or three minutes. 4. We take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the butter into a basin ; as the pepper is only for flavouring, the grains must not be left in the butter. 5. We wash out the stewpan to prevent any of the grains remaining. 6. We pour the flavoured butter back in the stewpan. 7. We add one ounce of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper, and cayenne pepper (about as much as would thinly cover half the top of a threepenny piece) according to taste; and stir well together with a wooden spoon. 8. We add one gill {or quarter of a pint) of milk. 9. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the mixture smooth until it thickens.Lessons on Making Soufflds.—Cheese Souffld. 339 Now it is finished. 10. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 11. We add one by one the yolks of two eggs, and beat them well together. 12. We take three ounces of Parmesan cheese. 13. We grate the cheese with a grater on to a plate or piece of paper. 14. We add the three ounces of grated cheese to the above mixture in the stewpan, and mix it all well together. 15. We whip the whites of three eggs with a little salt in a basin quite stiff. 16. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir it lightly. 17. We take a plain tin pint mouldy and prepare it in the same way as we did for the Vanilla Souffle Pudding. (See Souffles, Lesson No. 1.) 18. We pour the mixture into the buttered tin mould. N.B.—This same mixture, if poured into Ramaquin papers and baked, will make cheese Ramaquins. 19. We put the tin in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake from twenty minutes to half an ho?ir. We must look at it once or twice to see it does not burn, but the door of the oven should not be opened too often while the souffle is inside, lest it should check the souffle from rising properly. N.B.—To serve a baked souffle it should be kept in its tin, the buttered paper taken off, and a clean napkin folded round the tin. It can also be baked in a mould which slips inside a plated or silver dish sold for the purpose. This is the more elegant way of serving a souffle or fondu.340 National Training School for Cookery. SOUFFLES. Lesson No. 3. POTATO SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Potato SouffleT d. 1\ 8 Time required, about an hour. Now we will show you how to make Potato Soufflt. 1. We take four good sized potatoes, wash and scrub them with a scrubbing brush in a basin of cold water. 2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a cloth. 3. We put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 230°) to bake; they will take from half an hour to three quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven, and the size of the potatoes. 4. We take a steel fork or skewer, and stick it into the potatoes to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. N.B.—This should be carefully done so as not to spoil the potato skins. 5. When they are done we take them out and cut them (with a sharp knife) in half—so that each half of the potato will stand—because we shall want to use the skins to put the potato into them again. 6. We take a small spoon and scoup out carefully all the inside of the potatoes. We must take care not to make holes or spoil the skins in any way. 7. We take a wire sieve and put it over a plate, and take ' the inside of the potatoes and rub it through with a wooden spoon. INGREDIENTS. 4 potatoes 1 oz. of butter \ a gill of milk 4 eggs SeasoningLessons on Making Souffles.—Potato Souffle. 341 Now it is finished. 8. We put one ounce of butter and half a gill of milk in a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 9. We add salt and pepper according to taste. 10. We then add three ounces of the sifted potatoes, and stir it smoothly. 11. We must now take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper or wooden trivet, on the table. 12. We take three eggs, and add, one by one, only the yolks, beating all well together with a wooden spoon. 13. We take the three whites, and add another white to make four, and put them in a basin ; we add a quarter of a saltspoonfid of salt to them, and whip them to a stiff froth. 14. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir the whole lightly. 15. We now stand the eight half-potato skins on a baking sheet. 16. We pour the mixture carefully into each potato skin (they should be only half full). 17. We put the sheet into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) for ten minutes, until they have risen well, and become a pale brown colour* 18. We should fold a table napkin, and arrange them in it for serving.342 National Training School for Cookery. OMELET SOUFFLE. Average cost of “ Omelet Souffle” INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs 2 ^ oz. of butter at is. 6d. a lb. of Jam i Sugar and salt oj i teaspoonful of orange flower water i Si Time required, about ten minutes. Now we will show you how to make an Omelet Souffle of two eggs. 1. We break two eggs; we put the whites in one basin and the yolks in another. 2. We put one teaspoonful of orange flower water, and one tablespoonful of castor sugar into a stewpan. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil quickly for three minutes, stirring occasionally. 4. We then pour it into a cup to cool; add to it the yolks of eggs, and beat them to a cream. 5. We add a quarter of a saltspGonful of salt to the whites jf egg, and whip them to a stiff froth. 6. We add the whites to the mixture in the basin, and mix them together very lightly. 7. We put half an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 8. We put the pan on the fire, and let the butter get quite hot, but not burn. 9. When the butter is quite hot we must pour in the mixture. 10. We may let it stay on a slow fire for two, but not more than three minutes. 11. We must then take the pan off the fire and put it in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°).Lesson on Making Omelet SouffUs. Now it is finished. 343 12. We let it stay for about three or four minutes in the oven. 13. We take rather more than a dessertspoonful of jam. 14. We put the jam into a stewpan on the fire, and stir it until it has melted. 15. We take the pan out of the oven. 16. We take a knife and pass it round the edge of the omelet souffle\ to ease it from the pan. 17. We give the pan a shake to loosen the omelet souffle. 18. We turn the omelet souffle on to a hot dish. 19. We spread the jam on the omelet souffle, and fold it over like a sandwich. 20. We sprinkle about a teaspoonfid of white castor sugar over it.344 National Training School for Cookery. SAVOURY OMELET. / Average cost of “ Savoury OmeletV INGREDIENTS. d. 2 eggs at id. each 2 Salt, pepper, and parsley of 1 oz. buttet ii 4 Time required, about four minuter. Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Omelet of two eggs. 1. We break two eggs into a basin. 2. We add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and pepper to taste. 3. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonful). 4. We add the chopped parsley to the eggs. 5. We beat the eggs lightly for two seconds with a fork. N.B.—The omelet could be flavoured with chopped herbs or mushrooms, with bacon or kidney cut in small pieces, or with grated cheese, according to taste. 6. We take one ounce of butter, and put it in an omelet or frying pan. 7. We put the pan on the fire to melt the butter. N.B.—The fire should be bright and clear. 8. We wait till the butter is quite hot, taking care that it does not burn. 9. We pour the mixture of the egg into the pan. 10. We stir the mixture quickly with a wooden spoon. 11. We must not let it burn or stick to the pan. We must shake the pan to prevent the omelet sticking or burning.Now it is finished. Lesson on Making Savoury Omelets. 345 12. We spread it over the bottom of the pan, and let it cook through. 13. We must watch it very carefully. 14. We take a knife and put it under the omelet, and fold the omelet over. 15. When the omelet has become a pale brown, we turn it out of the pan on to a hot dish.346 National Training School for Cookery. MACCARONI. Lesson No, I. Average cost of u Maccaroni with Milk ” and “ Maccaroni with CheeseP INGREDIENTS £ lb. of Maccaroni . Salt 1 quart of skimmed milk 2 oz. of cheese 1 oz. of butter Salt and pepper, and cayenne pepper d. 2 2 1 <* 7* Time required, about one hour and three-quarters. Now we will show you how to cook Maccaroni. 1. We take half a poimd of maccaroni, wash it, and put k in a saucepan of cold water, with one tablespoonful of salt. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, and let it boil gently for half an hour. 3. After that time we pour the water out of the sauce- pan. 4. We put one quart of skimmed milk into the saucepan. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for one hour. 6. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked and quite tender, we turn it out on a hot dish, and it can be eaten with sugar or treacle. N.B.—If liked, maccaroni and cheese can be made of it. 7. For maccaroni and cheese, we take two ounces of cheese, and grate it with a grater on to a piece of paper. 8. We take a dish or a tin and grease it well inside with a piece of dripping or butter. 9. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked (as above) we turn it out of the saucepan on to the greased dish.347 Lessons on Cooking Maccaroni. Now it is finished. o 10. We sprinkle over \t pepper and salt and two or three grains of cayenne pepper, according to taste ; or, about half a teaspoonful of mustard might be mixed with it. 11. We stir part of the grated cheese into the maccaroni and the remainder we sprinkle over the top. 12. We take one ounce of butter, cut it in small pieces, and put these pieces of butter about on the top of the maccaroni. 13. We put the dish in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°), or in a Dutch oven before the fire for ten minutesj it should become a pale brown. 14. It wiii then be ready for serving.348 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. STEWED MACCARONI. Lesson No. 2. Average cost of “ Maccaroni Stewed in Stocks INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of maccaroni Salt and pepper .. 1 pint of stock .. Now we will show you how to stew Maccaroni. 1. We take half a pound of maccaroni, wash it, and put it in a saucepan with plenty of cold, water and a dessertspoonful of salt. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. 3. After that time we put the maccaroni into a cullender take it to the tap, and turn some cold water on it. 4. We now let the maccaroni drain in the cullender. 5. We then turn it on a board, and cut it up in pieces. 6. We put one pint of stock into a saucepan. 7. We put the maccaroni into the stock, and season it with pepper and salt, according to taste. 8. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for tzventy minutes. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 9. For serving, we turn the maccaroni out on a hot dish.Lesson on Making Cheese Straws. 349 CHEESE STRAWS. Average cost of “ Ingredients ” for “ Cheese Straws ” (about three dozen). INGREDIENTS. ' ~ d. 2 oz. of butter 2J 2 oz. of flour 02 2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese 3 1 oz. of Cheddar cheese ij 1 egg 1 Salt and cayenne pepper o| 8j Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Cheese Straws. 1. We put two ounces of flour on a board, and mix into it Jialf a saltspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. 2. We take two ounces of Parmesan cheese and one ounce of Cheddar or some strong cheese, and grate them on a grater. 3. We rub the cheese and two ounces of butter into the dour. 4. We now mix all the ingredients together with the yolk of an egg into a smooth stiff paste. 5. We flour the board and the rolling pin, and roll out the paste into a strip one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and five inches wide (the length the cheese straws are to be). 6. We now take a sharp knife, dip it in flour, and cut the paste into strips one-eighth of an inch wide, so that they will be five inches long and one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 7. We take two round cutters, dip them in flour, and cut little rings of paste. 8. We take a baking sheet, and grease it with butter. 9. We put the cheese straws and the rings on the baking sheet, and put it into a hot oven (the heat should rise to 240°) for ten minutes.350 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We must look at the cheese straws occasionally, and see that they do not burn ; they should be of a pale brown colour when done. 11. For serving, we take the cheese straws off the baking sheet, and put them through the rings of paste like a bundle of sticks.Now it is finished. Lesson on Pickling Cabbage. 35 1 PICKLED CABBAGE. Average cost of “ Pickled Cabbagel* INGREDIENTS. j. d. A red cabbage o 3 A gallon of vinegar 1 4 Mace, cloves, allspice, whole pepper o Salt and ginger o o\ 1 9 Time required, about three days. Now we will show you how to Pickle a Cabbage. 1. We take a red cabbage, cut it in half, and cut out the stalk. and wash it well in salt and cold water. N. B.—A white-heart cabbage will do to pickle, but green cabbages cannot be used, 2. We put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 3. We lay the slices in a large pan, sprinkle a handful of salt over each layer of slices, cover the top well with salt, and leave them for tzvo days. N.B.—We must turn the slices every morning and evening, and sprinkle a handful of salt over the layers each time we turn them. 4. We then drain the slices on a hair sieve for one day. 5. We put a gallon of vinegar, two blades of mace, twenty- four cloves, tzventy-four allspice berries, and twenty-four peppercorns into a saucepan, with three pieces of ginger an inch long. 6. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil up. 7. We then turn the vinegar and spices out of the sauce- pan into a broad pan to cool. N.B.—They must on no account be allowed to cool in the saucepan. 8. We put the cabbage into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar and spices over it. 9. The cabbage must be quite covered with vinegar, and as it soaks it up more vinegar must be poured over it N.B.—This quantity of vinegar is sufficient for a large cabbage; a smaller one will take less. 10. We tie the jar over with wash leather, brown paper, or a bladder.352 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. PICKLE FOR MEAT. Average cost of “ Pickle for Meat ” (about one gallon). INGREDIENTS. d. i and | lb. of salt of 6 oz. brown sugar i i oz. saltpetre og i gallon water — Time required, about half an hour to make. Now we will show you how to make Pickle for Meat. 1. We put one pound and a half of salt, six ounces of brown sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, and one gallon of water into a large saucepan. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to bring it to the boil, and then let it boil for five minutes. We must keep it well skimmed. 3. We then strain it into a tub or large basin. 4. When the pickle is quite cold, meat can be put into it. N.B.—The meat should be kept well covered with the pickle 9 days. N.B.—This pickle will keep for 3 weeks in summer and 3 months in winter. N.B.—When the pickle is required again after it has once been used, it should be boiled up again, skimmed, strained, and allowed to get cold before the fresh meat is put into it. N.B.—If used for pig’s head the pickle should be thrown away and not used again.Lessons on Making Cakes—Sultana Cake. 353 CAKES. Lesson No. i. SULTANA CAKE. Average cost of a “ Sultana Cake? INGREDIENTS. k lb. of flour 5 lb. of butter g lb. of sugar 5 lb. of sultana raisins 1 oz. of candied peel ... I teaspoonful of baking powder \ a gill of milk 1 lemon s. o o o o o o o o o d. 4 1 2 °? ok 2 i Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Sultana Cake. 1. We put half a pound of flour into a basin. 2. We rub a quarter of a pound of butter into the flour with our hands. 3. We now add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. 4. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the nW of it into the basin. 5. We cut up one ounce of candied peel into small pieces, and add it to the other ingredients. 6. We put half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a small basin, and add to it the yolks of two eggs. (The whites we put on a plate). 7. We stir the milk and the eggs together, and then pour it into the other ingredients, and mix all together. 8. We butter a cake tin. z354 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We whip the whites of the eggs into a stiff froth with a knife, and stir it lightly into the mixture. 10. We now pour it into the tin, and put it into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for one hour and a quarter. 11. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. N.B.—This will prevent its getting heavy.Lessons on Making Cakes.—German Pound. 355 CAKES. Lesson No. 2. GERMAN POUND CAKE. Average cost of a “ German Pound Cake? INGREDIENTS. j. d. 10 oz. of flour' o 2 8 oz. of fresh butter o io 8 oz. of castor sugar o 3 2 oz. of candied peel o ij 1 lemon o 2 5 lb. of sultana raisins o i| 4 eggs o 4 2 o Time required, about two hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a German Pound Cake. 1. We stand a wire sieve over a plate and rub through it ten ounces of flour. 2. We put eight ounces of fresh butter into a basin, and work it to a cream with our hand. 3. We add a tablespoonful of the siftedflour, a tablespoon- ful of castor sugar,\ and one egg, and mix them well into the butter. 4. We continue to mix in by degrees the flour, sugar, and eggs until they are all used up. 5. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate the rind of it into the basin. 6. We also add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, and two ounces of candied peel (cut up in small pieces). 7. We stir all the ingredients together with a spoon. 8. We line a cake tin with buttered foolscap paper, and put three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the tin.Now it is finished. 356 National Training School for Cookery. 9. We pour the mixture into the tin, and put it into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for two hours. 10. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin, and stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. N.B.-~This will prevent it getting heavy.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Plam Cake. 357 CAKES, Lesson No. 3. PLAIN CAKE. Average cost of this “ Cake ” {half a quartern), INGREDIENTS. z lb. of flour 4 oz. of dripping Baking powder, allspice, and salt d. 2? 2 of j lb. of currants \ pint of milk .. 5 lb. of sugar .. I x Now we will show you how to make a Plain Cake. 1. We take one pound of flour and put it in a pan or large basin. 2. We mix into the flour a teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 3. We take four ounces of clarified dripping, rub it well into the flour with our fingers until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in a cloth, and rub them clean. 5. We add the currants to the flour\ also half a teaspoon- fu'l of ground allspice, and a quarter of a pound of brown sugar. 6. We mix these ingredients together with a wooden spoon. 7. We now pour in half a pint of milk, and mix it all well together. 8. We take half a quartern tin and grease it inside with a piece of dripping. 9. We pour this mixture into the tin.358 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 10. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for one hour. 11. After that time we take the tin out of the oven. 12. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side to cool. N.B.—This will prevent its getting heavy.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Seed Cake. 359 CAKES. Lesson No. 4. SEED CAKE. Average cost of a “ Seed Cake'. INGREDIENTS. 10 oz. of flour 2 oz. of sugar 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 1 1 teaspoonful of carraway seeds ) 2 oz. of clarified dripping \ a gill of milk . 3 44 Time required, one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Seed Cake. 1. We take ten ounces of flour and put in a basin. 2. We mix into the flour, one teasfloonful of baking powdery and half a saltspoonful of salt. 3. We take two ounces of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands, until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We add two ounces of crushed loaf sugar and one tea- spoonful of carraway seeds. 5. We mix these well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We break one egg into a cup and beat it up with half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk. 7. We pour this into the basin and mix all quickly together into a stiff paste, stiff enough to allow a spoon to stand up in it. 8. We take a cake tin and grease it inside with a piece of dripping. 9. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it at once in the oven (the heat should rise to 24 o°) to bake for one hour. d. 15 oh oh 1 1Now it is finished. 360 National Training School for Cookery. 10. To know when the cake is sufficiently baked, we run a clean knife into it, if it comes out perfectly bright and undimmed by steam, the cake is done. 11. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side to cool.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Plum Cake. 361 CAKES. Lesson No. 5. PLUM CAKE. Average cost of a “ Plum Cake ” (about three pounds). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour \ lb. of fruit (plums or currants)........ £ lb. of dripping •l lb. of surar 1 egg i a prill of milk A teaspoonful of baking powder........ Salt 2 oz. of candied peel.................. ioi Time required, about one hour and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make a Plum Cake. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin, with a tea* spoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and rub it well into the flour with our hands until there are no lumps remaining. 3. We take half a pound of plums or currants or a quarter of a pound of each and add them to the flour. N.B.—If currants are used they should be well washed and dried in a cloth and picked over to see there are no stones in them. Large plums should be stoned before they are used. 4. We take two ounces of candied peel cut it in small pieces and put it in the basin. We also add a quarter of a pound of sugar. N.B.—If peel is disliked it may be omitted. 5. We break one egg into a basin and add to it half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk, and beat them up. 6. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing them all well together.Now it is finished. 362 National Training School for Cookery. 7. We take a tin and grease it inside with dripping. 8. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for about an hour. 9. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its side slanting against a plate till it is cold. N.B,—This will prevent it from getting heavy.Lessons on Making Cakes.—Cornflour Cake. 363 Now it is finished. CAKES. Lesson No. 6. CORNFLOUR CAKE. Average cost of a “ Cornflour Cake ” (about three-quarters of a found). INGREDIENTS. d £ lb. of cornflour 2 1 lb. of loaf sugar 1 2 oz. of butter 2 1 teaspoonful of baking powder o| 2 eggs 2 7\ Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Cake. 1. We put two ounces of butter into a basin, and beat it to a cream. 2. We add to the butter a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and mix it well. 3. We break in two eggs and beat all well together. 4. We now stir lightly into the mixture a quarter of a pound of cornflour and a teaspoonful of baking powder, and beat it well together for five minutes. 5. We grease a cake tin inside with butter or dripping. 6. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it imme- diately into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for half an hour. 7. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and slant it against a plate until it is cold. (This will prevent its getting heavy.) N.B.—If preferred, the mixture could be baked in small tins instead of one large one, in which case it would only take fifteen minutes to bake.364 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. CAKES. Lesson No. 7. DOUGH CAKE. Average cost of a “ Dough Cake ” (about one quartern). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 2 a quartern of dough o 4 2 eggs o 2 £ lb. of sugar o i£ 1 lb. of currants o 4! 1 o Time required, about an hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make a Dough Cake. 1. We put half a quartern of dough (made as for bread\ see “ Bread,” Lesson No. 1) into a basin. 2. We take one pound of currants, wash them, dry them in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones mixed with them. 3. We add the currants and half a pound of moist sugar to the dough. N.B.—If liked, half a teaspoonful of mixed spice might be added. 4. We now break two eggs into the basin, and beat all the ingredients well together. 5. We take aquartern tin, and grease it well inside with dripping. 6. We turn the mixture into the greased tin. 7. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) until the cake is sufficiently baked ; it will take about forty minutes. 1 N.B.—To test if the cake is done we should run a clean knife into it, and if it comes out clean the cake is sufficiently baked. 8. We then turn the cake out of the tin, and place it on its side, leaning against a plate until it is cold. N.B.—This will prevent it getting heavy.Lesson on Making Shrewsbury Cakes. 365 Now it is finished. SHREWSBURY CAKES. Average cost of “ Shrewsbury Cakes ” (about one pound). INGREDIENTS. d. \ lb. of butter 4 £ lb. of castor sugar 1^ 6 oz. of flour 1 1 teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon and mace . o^ 1 egg . 00V..x ~tT Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Shrewsbury Cakes. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of castor sugar into a basin, and beat them together till the mixture is of the same consistency as cream. N.B.—If the butter is very hard it might he beaten over hot water. 2. We add to the mixture one egg and about a teaspoon- ful of pounded cinnamon and mace (mixed together), and beat all well together. 3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees six ounces of flour. N.B.—We must be careful not to let it get lumpy. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the pastes thin as possible. 6. We dip a cutter or wine-glass in floury and cut the <i>aste into biscuits or cakes. 7. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter, and put the cakes on it. 8. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for about twenty minutes; they should be a light brown when baked. 9. The cakes are then ready for use.366 National Training School for Cookery. ROCK CAKES. Average cost of “ Rock Cakes ” (about one pound and a half'). INGREDIENTS. d. Jib. of flour ... ■ ij | lb. of currants 1J J lb. of sugar 1 2 oz. of candied peel 1 2 teaspoonsful of baking powder oj 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger oj J lb. of clarified dripping 2 1 egg 1 About J a gill of milk . o J _!L Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Rock Cakes. 1. We put half a pound of flour into a basin. 2. We stir two teaspoonsful of baking powder into the flour. 3. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping, and rub it well into the four with our hands until there are no lumps remaining. 4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in a cloth, rub them clean, and pick them over to see that there are no stones with them. 5. We add the currants to the flour, also one teaspqpnful of ground ginger ox grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of crushed loaf sugar. 6. We take two ounces of candied peel, cut it in pieces, and add it to t^he other ingredients. 7. We mix all these ingredients together with a wooden spoon. 8. We break one egg into a cup, and beat it up with about half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk. 9. We pour this into the basin, and mix all well together into a very stiff paste.Lesson on Making Rock Cakes. 367 Now it is finished. 10. We take a tin, and grease it with dripping. 11. We divide the paste into small portions with two forks, and lay them in rough heaps on the tin. 12. We put them into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for about fifteen minutes. 13. After that time we take them out of the oven, and the cakes are then ready for use,.......368 National Training School for Cookery. BUNS. Average cost of “ Buns ” (this quantity will make about twenty-seven). INGREDIENTS. \ oz. of German yeast lb. of flour 3 gills of milk 1 oz. of butter £ lb. of moist sugar 5 lb. of sultana raisins or currants .. d. oh 3h 1 1 9 Time required, about two hows and a half. Now we will show you how to make Buns. 1. We put one gill and a half (one gill is a quarter of i* pint) of milk into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 2. We put half an ounce of German yeast into a basin. 3. When the milk is just warm, we pour' it by degrees on to the yeast, mixing them well together with a spoon. 4. We put one pound of flour into a large basin and stir into it the milk and yeast, mixing it into a dough. 5. We cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it on the fender, and let it rise for about one hour. 6. We put one gill and a half of milk into a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, and put it on the fire to warm. 7. We put half a pound of flour into a basin and stir into it the milk and butter. 8. When the dough is sufficiently risen, we turn it into this mixture, and work them well together. 9. We nowr add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins or currants and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and mix all well together. N.B.—If currants are used they should be well washed, dried in a cloth, and carefully picked over to see if there are any stones mixed with them. 10. We cover the basin with a cloth and stand it near the fire to rise again for one hour.Lesson on Making Buns. 369 11. After that time we take a tin and grease it with dripping or butter. N.B.—If there is no tin, the shelf from the oven should be greased and used instead. 12. We flour a paste board and turn the dough out on it. 13. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough into pieces. 14. We flour our hands, and form the dough into balls. N.B.—This quantity of dough will make about twenty-seven ordinary sized buns. 15. We put the buns on the tin. 16. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake the buns for about half an hour. 17. When they are half done we take the tin out of the oven, brush the buns over with water; and sprinkle white sugar over them. 18. We now put the tin back in the oven. 19. When the buns are sufficiently baked, we take them off the tin and slant them against a plate until they are cold. N.B.—This will prevent their getting heavy. Now it is finished. AA370 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. RICE BUNS. Average cost of “ Rice Buns ” (about eight or ten). INGREDIENTS. d. 5 lb. of ground rice ^ lb. of sugar i 2 oz. of butter 2 2 eggs 2 £ a teaspoonful of baking powder o£ _6| Time required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Rice Buns. 1. We put a quarter of a pound of ground rice into a basin, with half a teaspoonfd of baking powder. 2. We add a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar\ and two ounces of butter, and mix all together with a wooden spoon. 3. We break in two eggs and beat all lightly together. N.B.—We should be careful to see that the eggs are good before adding them to the mixture. 4. We take some small tins or patty pans, and grease them well with a piece of dripping or butter. 5. We fill these tins two-thirds full with the mixture. N.B.—This quantity will make about eight or ten btcns. N.B. —If there are no small tins the mixture could be put into a cake tin which should be previously greased inside. 6. We put the tins into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for fifteen minutes. . 7. After that time, we turn the buns out of the tins, and lean them against a plate until they are cold. N.B.—This will prevent their getting heavy.Lesson on Making Gmger-Bread Nuts. 371 Now it is finished. GINGER-BREAD NUTS. Average cost of “ Ginger-bread Nuts ” (about twenty-four). INGREDIENTS. I iu. 01 \ lb. of treacle 2 4 oz. of butter 4 % an oz. of ground ginger o£ Allspice | 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda > o{- Salt ) 9 Time required, about twenty-five mimites. Now we will show you how to make Ginger-bread Nuts. 1. We put one poitnd of flour into a basin with about half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We also add half an ounce of ground ginger; one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and allspice (about as much as will cover a threepenny piece). 3. We put half a pound of treacle and four ounces of butter into a saucepan, and melt them together over the*, fire. 4. We mix the ingredients together and then add the melted treacle and the four ounces of butter, and mix all well together into a firm paste. N.B.—We should be very careful that all the ingredients are well mixed and that there are no lumps left. 5. We flour a board and turn the paste out on to it. 6. We should flour our hands and knead the paste. 7. We no,\y divide the paste into about twenty-four pieces. 8. We roll each piece into a ball, like a walnut, and put them two inches apart on a greased tin. 9. We put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 24c0) for fifteen minutes. 10. After that time we turn the ginger-bread nuts off the tin and set them aside to cool.372 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. MILK BISCUITS. Average cost of “ Milk Biscuits ” (about two dozen). INGREDIENTS. d. I gill (j pint) of milk o| i oz. of butter i | lb. of flour i teaspoonful of baking powder o£ _3 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Milk Biscuits. 1. We put one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk into a saucepan ; we add to it one ounce of butter, and put it on the fire to warm. 2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with a teaspoonful of backing powder. 3. When the milk is hot, we pour it into the flour and stir it carefully into a smooth, stiff paste. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll the paste out into as thin a sheet as possible. 6. We flour a docker or a tumbler and cut the paste out into rounds, about the size of the top of a teacup. 7. We grease a tin with dripping or butter, and place the biscuits on it. 8. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for twenty minutes. 9. After that time we turn the biscuits off the tin and set them aside to cool.Now it is finished. Lesson on Making Oatmeal Biscuits. 0/0 OATMEAL BISCUITS. Average cost of “ Oatmeal Biscuits ” (about one pound). INGREDIENTS. 7 oz. of flour 3 oz. of oatmeal 3 oz. of castor sugar 3 oz. of lard or. butter i of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Oatmeal Biscuits. 1. We put three ounces of lard or butter into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 2. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin with three ounces of oatmeal, three ounces of castor sugar, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and mix all toge- ther with a spoon. 3. We now stir in the melted lard. 4. We put about a tablespoonful of cold water into a tea cup; we break one egg into the water and beat them slightly together. 5. We add this to the mixture in the basin, and mix all well and smoothly together with a spoon. 6. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 7. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 8. We flour a tumbler and cut the paste into biscuits according to taste. 9. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter, and place the biscuits on it. 10. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for tzventy minutes.374 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SCONES. Average cost of “ Scones ” (about eight). INGREDIENTS. d. i b. of flour. 2\ l pint of milk o| £ lb. of butter 4 1 dessertspoonful of baking powder oj 7 Time required, about forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Scones. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it a dessertspoonful of baking powder. 2. We take a quarter of a pound of butter, and rub it well into the flour with our hands. 3. We turn it out on to a floured board. 4. We flour a rolling pin and roll it out to make sure that the butter is well mixed in the flour. 5. We mix it into a smooth paste with rather less than a quarter of a pint of milk. N.B.—The paste must not be too moist. 6. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste to a thin sheet, about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the paste into triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. 8. We flour a tin, put the scones on it, and bake them directly in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) for thirty to forty minutes. 9. When the scones are half done, we should brush them over with milk.375 Lesson on Making Short-Bread. Now it is finished. SHORT-BREAD. Average cost of “ Short-Bread!' d. °t 2 o£_ 3 7ime required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Short-Bread. 1. We put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 2. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin with one ounce of castor (pounded lump) sugar and the melted butter. 3. We mix these ingredients well together. 4. We flour a board and turn the paste out >on it. 5. We flour our hands and knead thz paste well. 6. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. We flour a knife and cut the paste into oval shapes. 8. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter. 9. We put the short-bread on the tin, and put it in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake till a pale brown. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour 2 oz. of butter 1 oz. of castor sugar376 National Training School for Cookery. MILK ROLLS. Average cost of “ Milk Rolls ” (about twelve). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of self-raising flour 2 oz. of butter ................. Milk, .... d. 3 2 x 6 Time required, about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Milk Rolls. 1. We put one pound of self-raising flour into a basin and rub two ounces of butter into it with our hands. 2. We add sufficient milk to make it into a lithe firm dough. 3. We sprinkle flour over a board, and turn the dough out on it. 4. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough into twelve pieces. N.B.—We should keep our hands floured to prevent the dough from sticking to them. 5. We form each piece into a small roll. 6. We flour a baking tin. 7. We put these rolls on to the tin and put the tin in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for twenty minutes. 8. The milk rolls will then be ready for use. Now it is finished. 1377 On Making Yorkshire Tea Cakes. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. Average cost of “ Yorkshire Tea Cakes ” (about two). INGREDIENTS. d. f of a lb. of flour i| gill of milk of t oz. of butter. . t i ep,pr \ an oz. of German yeast 5 Time required, about one hour and a half. Now we will show you how to make Yorkshire Tea Cakes. 1. We put one gill and a half {one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a small saucepan and put it on the fire. 2. We put half an ounce of German yeast into a basin, and when the milk is just warm we pour it on to the yeast. 3. We put three-quarters of a pound of four into a large basin, and rub into it one ounce of butter. 4. We beat up one egg in a cup, and then add it to the flour. 5. We now pour the yeast and milk through a strainer into the basin, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 6. We flour a board and turn the dough out on it. 7. We flour our hands and knead the dough for a minute or two. 8. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and divide the dough into cakes. 9. We take some cake tins (as many as are required), and grease them inside with dripping. 10. We put the cakes into the tins. N.B.—The tins should be only three-qtiarters full, so as to allow for the cakes to rise.Now it is finished. 378 National Training School for Cookery. 11. We stand the tins near the fire, and allow the cakes to rise for one hour. 12. After that time we put the tins' into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake ioxmquarter of an hour. 13. We then turn the cakes out of the tins, and place them on a sieve, or on the seat of a cane chair to cool. N. B.—This will prevent them from getting heavy,379 Lessons on Making Bread. BREAD. 1 Lesson No. i. Average cost o{ “Bread” (about a quartern). INGREDIENTS. dm 31 lbs. flour (2nds) at 2s. 4d. the peck 7 1 oz. German yeast 1 \ saltspoonful of salt | 8 Time required, quarter of an hour for making, two or three hours for rising, and one hour and a half for baking. Now we will show you how to make Bread. 1. We take three pounds and a half of seconds flour, put three pounds of it into a large pan, and make a hole or well in the centre of the flour. 1 ■*. N.B.—Half a pound is reserved to work the bread up with. 2. We put one ounce of German yeast into a basin. 3. We add about a gill of tepid water, and stir the yeast into a stiff paste. 4. We then fill the basin with luke-warm ivater, and stir the yeast smoothly, making in all about one pint and three gills. 5. We add to the flour half a teaspoonful of salt, and then pour in by degrees the yeast, mixing the flour lightly into a dough with our hands. 6. We should add more lukewarm water if the dough is too stiff. N. B.—We must be sure to mix up all the flour into dough. 7. We sprinkle about a tablespoonful of dry flour over the dough, and cover the pan with a cloth. 8. We place the pan near the fire for at least two hours to let the dough rise. 9. When the dough has risen sufficiently, we take up the380 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. pan and work in more flour■ if necessary, to make the doiigJi stiff enough to turn out of the pan. N.B.—We must keep our hands well floured all through the process of bread making. 10. We turn the dough out on a well-floured board, and knead it well, using up a good deal more flour. 11. We divide the dough into six equal pieces, knead each piece separately, and make into a loaf N.B.—If the bread is to be baked in tins, we form each loaf into a dumpling or ball (with a smooth surface and no cracks in it), either long or round according to the shape of the tin. 12. We put the bread into the tins, which should be well floured. 13. We cut a slit in the top of the dough, or prick it with a fork. N.B.—If the bread is to be made into cottage loaves,— 14. We divide each piece into two, one rather larger than the other. 15. We make each into a ball, put the smaller one on the top of the other, and press our forefinger into the middle of the top. N.B.—Cottage loaves are baked on floured tins. N.B.—If there are no tins the oven shelf should be washed and floured, and a tin is not then necessary. 16. We let the loaves rise half an hour in a warm place before we put them in the oven. 17. We then put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 280°, and after a quarter of an hour be reduced to 220°) for about one hour and a half N.B.—To test if the Ircad is sufficiently baked we should run a clean knife into the loaves, and if it comes out perfectly bright the bread is done. 18. When we take the bread out of the oven we stand each loaf up on its side to cool.Lesson on Making Unfermented Bread. 381 Now it is finished. BREAD. Lesson No. 2. UNFERMENTED BREAD. Average cost of “ Unfermented Bread ” (about two loaves). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 lb. of flour 1 teaspoonful of baking potvder I . Salt } °* 2s Time required, abotit three-quarters of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Unfermented Bread. 1. We put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it one teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt. 2. We add sufficient water to make it into a light firm dough (not too stiff). N.B.—It will take about half a pint of water. 3. We sprinkle flour over a board, and turn the dough out on it. N.B.—We should keep our hands floured to prevent the dough from sticking to them. 4. We should knead it with our hands, and make it up quickly into small loaves. N.B.—Small loaves do better than large ones for unfermented bread, and the quicker the bread is made and put into the oven the better. 5. We put the loaves on a floured baking sheet, and put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for half an hour. N.B.—To see if bread is sufficiently baked we run a clean knife into it, and if it comes out bright and untarnished, the bread is done. 6. We take the bread out of the oven, and stand each loaf on its side to cool.382 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. i. CHICKEN PANADA. Average cost of “ Chicken Panada ” INGREDIENTS. s. d \ a chicken 1 9 A tablespoonful of cream o i£ 1 105 Time required, about four hours. Now we will show you how to make Chicken Panada. 1. We take a chicken and clean it in the same way that we do for roasting a fowl (see “ Trussing a Fowl for Roasting ”). 2. We cut the chicken in half, dividing it down the middle of the back with a sharp knife. 3. We take all the flesh off the bones of half the chicken, and cut it into small pieces with a sharp knife. 4. We put the pieces of .chicken into a gallipot, and sprinkle over them half a saltspoonfid of salt. 5. We take a piece of paper and tie it over the top of the gallipot. 6. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and put it on the fire. 7. We stand the gallipot in the saucepan, and let it simmer for two hours. The water must not cover the gallipot. 8. After that time we take the gallipot out of the saucepan. 9. We take the pieces of chicken out with a spoon, We must not lose any of the liquor. 10. We take the pieces of chicken, and put them into a mortar and pound them well to a pulp.On Sick-Room Cookery.—Chicken Panada. 383 Now it is finished. 11. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 12. We take the pounded chicken and pass it through the sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. 13. We pour a little of the chicken liquor into the pulp on the sieve to make it pass through more easily. 14. When all the chicken pulp has been passed through into the basin, we stir in one tablespoonfid of cream. Now it is finished. We use the bones for Chicken Broth. 1. We take the chicken bones and put them in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil for three hours. 3. We must watch it, and skim it occasionally 4. When required for use, we take a strainer and strain the chicken broth into a basin. 5. We flavour it with pepper and salt according to the taste of the patient.384 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 2. BEEF ESSENCE. Average cost of “ Beef Essence.** INGREDIENT. i lb. of gravy beef gd. Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make Beef Essence. 1. We take one pound of gravy beef and cut off all fat and gristle with a sharp knife. 2. We cut the- lean up into small pieces, and put them into a jar. 3. We put the cover over the jar and tie a piece of paper over it. 4. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and stand it on the fire. 5. We stand the jar in the saucepan of boiling water to steam for two hours. The water must not cover the jar. 6. When it is done we take a strainer and put it over a basin. 7. We strain off the liquor into the basin, and flavour it with pepper and salt according to the patient’s complaint. N.B.—The meat can be put aside and used again for second stock.Sick-Room Cookery.—Cream of Barley. 385 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 3. CREAM OF BARLEY. Average cost of " Cream of Barley'.' INGREDIENTS. \ lb. veal cutlet 2 oz. of barley 2 gill of cream d. 7t °k 3 Time required, about four hours. Now we will show you how to make Cream of Barley. . 1. We take half a pound of veal cutlet, and cut off all the fat with a sharp knife. 2. We cut the lean into small pieces and put it in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 3. We ad4 half an ounce of barley, (previously well washed and soaked an hour in cold water), and half a saltspoonful of salt. 4. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours. 5. We strain off the liquor into a basin, and put the meat and barley in a mortar and pound them together. 6. We take a hair sieve, and put it over a basin. 7. We turn the pounded meat and barley on to the sieve, and rub them through with a wooden spoon. 8. We pour the liquor on to the sieve to help the pulp to pass through. 9. When it has all passed through the sieve into the basin, we stir in smoothly two tablespoonsful of cream.' Now it is finished. D B386 National Training School for Cookery. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 4. A CUP OF ARROWROOT AND ARROW- ROOT PUDDING. Average cost of “ Cup of Arrowroot" and (lArrowroot Pudding, INGREDIENTS. A dessertspoonful of arrowroot \ a pint of milk Castor sugar d. =S ‘ 2 ee^s ............................ CO .HM Time required, about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make a Cup of Arrowroot. 1. We take a dessertspoonful of Arrowroot, and put it into a small basin. 2. We add a dessertspoonful of cold milk, and stir it smoothly into a paste with a spoon. 3. We add a small teaspoonful of castor sugar, according to taste. 4. We take a small saucepan, and put in it half a pint of cold milk. 5. We put the saucepan on the fire, and watch the milk carefully until it boils. 6. When it is quite boiling, we pour it on to the arrowroot paste, stirring all the time to get it quite smooth. N.B.—If the patient prefers an Arrowroot Pudding:— 7. We add to the mixture described above, the yolks of two eggs, whipping it all well together. N.B.—The eggs should not be added till the mixture has cooled a little, or they would curdle.Now it is finished. Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Arrowroot. 387 8. We put the whites of the same eggs into another basin, and whisk them to a stiff froth. 9. We add the whites of the eggs to the arrowroot mixture, stirring them lightly together. 10. We pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and put it into the oven (the heat should rise to 240°) to bake for ten minutes.388 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 5. RICE WATER. Average cost of “ Rice Water” INGREDIENTS. dm 3 oz. of Carolina rice of 1 inch of the stick of cinnamon | . Sugar J °* I Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Rice Water. 1. We take three ounces of Carolina ricey and wash it well in two or three waters. 2. We take a stewpan with one quart of warm water. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the rice, and one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and let it boil for one hour, until the rice has become a pulp. 5. We then take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the rice water into a basin, and sweeten it according to taste. N.B.—When cold it is ready for use.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Barley Water. 389 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 6. BARLEY WATER. Average cost of “ Clear Barley Water ” (about half a pint). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 oz. of pearl barley o| The rind of a quarter of a lemon oj 2 lumps of loaf sugar. oj 1 Time required^ about one hour. For Making Thick Barley Water (about one pint). d. 2 oz. of pearl barley o| The rind of half a lemon o| Sugar oj I4 Time required, about two hours. Now we will show you how to make two kinds of Barley Water—Clear Barley Water and thick Barley Water. For half a pint of clear barley water:— 1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. 2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 3. We take a quarter of a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. N.B.—We must be careful, in peeling the lemon, not to cut any of the white skin, as it would make it bitter. 4. We put the washed barley into a jug. 5. We put in the lemon peely and two lumps of loaf sugar. 6. When the water in the kettle is quite boiling, we pour one pint of it on to the barley in the jug.390 National Trainmg School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 7. We cover over the top of the jug, and let it stand on ice or in a cool place, until it is perfectly cold. 8. We then strain the water into a clean jug for use. N.B.—The barley can be used again, with the addition of one ounce of fresh. Now it is finished. For one pint of thick Barley Water:— 1. We take two oiLnces of pearl barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. 2. We put the barley into a stewpan, with one quart of cold water. 3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently for two hours. 4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5. We put the lemon peel into a jug. 6. When the barley water is sufficiently boiled, we strain it into the jug over the lemon. 7. We put the jug into a cool place, and when it is perfectly cold, we take out the lemon peel, and sweeten the water, according to taste.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Apple Water. 391 Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 7 APPLE WATER. Average cost of Apple Water” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. d. 6 apples 2 The rind of half a lemon ♦ ^ Sugar / * Time required for making, about eight minutes. Now we will show you how to make Apple Water. 1. We take six apples, peel them, and cut out the core. N.B.—When the apples are juicy, six will be sufficient, but more maybe required according to the season of the year. 2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 3. We cut thz apples up in slices. 4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it very thinly. 5. We put the slices of apple and the lemon rind into a jug. 6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one quart of it on to the apples in the jug. 7. We sweeten it according to taste. 8. We stand the jug of apple water aside to cool. 9. When the water is quite cold we strain it into another jug, and it is then ready for use.392 Natioilq^Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 8. 0 • LEMONADE. Average cost of “ Lemonade'* (one pint and a half). INGREDIENTS. \ d. ' 2 lemons 3 Loaf sugar oj 34 Time required, about one hour. Now we will show you how to make Lemonade. 1. We put a kettle $f water on the fire to boil. 2. We ^ike two lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and el them very thinly. N.B.—We should be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the pith, or white skin, as it would make the lemonade bitter. 3. We now cut off all the pith. 4. We cut up the lemons into thin slices, take out all the pips, and put the slices and half the rind of the lemons into a-jug. 5. We add loaf sugar, according to taste, about one ounce. 6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one pint and a half on to the lemons in the jug. 7. We cover over the jug, and stand it aside to cool. 8. When the lemonade is quite cold, we strain it into another jug, and it is then ready for use.On Sick-Room Cookery.—Toast and Water. 393 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 9. 0 TOAST AND WATER. © Average cost of " Toast and Water” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. 1 crust of bread \d. 1 quart of cold water. Time, required, half an hour. Now we will show you how to make Toast and Water. 1. We take a crust of bread and toast it quite brown on all sides in front of the fire. N.B.—Crumb should not be used as it would turn sour. 2. We put the toasted crust of bread into a jug, and pour on it one quart of cold water. 3. We cover the jug over with a cloth, and stand it aside for half an hour. N.B.—This is a pleasant drink, and considered more refreshing than when made with boiling water. Now#it is finished. 4394 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. io. GRUEL Average cost of “ Gruel” {onepint). INGREDIENTS. d. 2 dessertspoonsful of patent groats o.^ Sugar '. o^ 5 oz. of fresh butter oj \ gill (2 tablespoonsful) of rum .... , 3 4 Time required, about fifteen minutes. Now we will show you how to make Gruel. 1. We put a stew-pan with one pint of water on the fir& to boil. 2. We take two dessertspoonsful of patent groats, and put them in a basin. 3. We add by degrees two tablespoonsful of cold water to the groats, and stir it into a smooth paste. 4. When the water in the stew-pan is quite boiling, we pour in the mixed gruel\ and stir it well with a wooden spoon, until it has boiled for ten minutes (it must not be lumpy), we then pour it into a basin. 5. Now it is ready for use. N.B.—If the gruel s required for a cold— 6. We stir in J oz. of fresh butter, and sweeten it according to taste. 7. We also add two tablespoonsful op rum. N.B.—If the patient is feverish, spirits should not be added.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—-Treacle Posset. 395 Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. ii. WHITE WINE WHEY, OR TREACLE POSSET. Average cost of “ White Wine Whey ” or “ Treacle Posset” {half a pint). INGREDIENTS. For White Wine Whey. d. \ pint of milk i 4 lumps of sugar oj 1 wineglassful of wine 3 For Treacle Posset. d. \ pint of milk „... 1 2 a gill of treacle 1 4 2 Time required, about ten mimites. Now we will show you how to make White Wine Whey. 1. We put half a pint of milk into a saucepan and four lumps of sugar. 2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 3. When it boils we pour in a wineglassful of wine {sherry or cowslip) according to taste. N.B.—If the milk is not quite boiling the wine will not curdle it. 4. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for about one minute. 5. We then strain the whey into a glass. N.B.—The curds are not digestible. N.B.—Treacle posset is made in the same way, except that no sugar should be added to the milk, and the same quantity of treacle is used instead of wine.396 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 12. BRAN TEA. Average cost of “ Bran Tea ” (one quart). INGREDIENTS. 3 tablespoonsful of bran. 1 x. Sugar or honey. j 4 * 3 tablespoonsful of bran. 1 x. Sugar or honey. j 4 * Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Bran Tea. 1. We put a kettle of warm water on the fire to boil. 2. We take three tablespoonsful of bran (not too coarse, for that is greasy) and put it into a large jug. N.B.—Bran is the husk of the grain which is sifted from the flour after the wheat is ground by the miller. 3. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one quart into the jug. 4. We cover the jug and let it stand for a quarter of an hour to draw. 5. When it is drawn, we strain off the tea through a piece of muslin, and sweeten it according to taste with either sugar or honey. N.B.—When wine is good for the patient it maybe added to the tea, or lemon juice, but it is very good without. N.B.—This is an invaluable drink for softening the throat.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Mutton Broth. 397 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 13. MUTTON BROTH. Average cost of “ Mutton Broth ” (two quarts'). INGREDIENTS. s. d. 4 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton . 2 8 2 knuckles from the legs of mutton 1 o A saltspoonful of salt ) 1 2 oz. of Patna rice ) a 3 H Time required for making,—the stock should he made the day before, and then the broth can be finished in about half an hour. Now we will show you how to make two quarts of Mutton Broth. 1. We take four pounds of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, wash it well, put it on a board, cut away all the faty and chop it up in large pieces. 2. We put these pieces into a stewpan, with two knuckle- bones from the legs of mutton. 3. We pour in five pints of cold water and add a salt- spoonful of salt. 4. We put the stewpan on the fire, just bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer for four hours. 5. We must watch it and skim it very often. 6. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and put it aside uhtil it is quite cold and in a stiff jelly. 7. We then take the stock and remove all the fat from the top with a spoon. 8. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and dab over the top of the stock so as to remove every particle of grease. 9. We must now take a clean dry cloth and wipe the top of the stock dry.Now it is finished. 398 National Training School for Cookery. 10. We take two ounces of Patna rice, and wash it well in two or three waters. 11. We put the stock into a stewpan. 12. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 13. When the stock is quite boiling we stir in the rice, and let it boil for twenty-five minutes to cook the rice. N.B.—We should feel that the rice is quite tender. 14. We season it with pepper and salt} according to the patient’s complaint. 15. For serving, we pour the broth into a basin. N.B.—The bones should be put in the stock pot.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Mutton Broth. 399 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 14. MUTTON BROTH. Average cost of this dish, i.e.t about one quart of mutton broth and a dish of boiled mutton with parsley sauce— INGREDIENTS. j. d. 2 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton i 2 x oz. of pearl barley or rice ) 1 £ a saltspoonful of salt j °+ \ oz. of butter o of £ oz. of flour I i 2 sprigs of parsley / 3 1 35 Time required, about two hours and forty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Mutton Broth. 1. We take two pounds of the scrag end of the neck of mutton^ and wash it well until it is quite clean. 2. We put the meat into a large saucepan with three pints of cold watery and put it on the fire to boil. 3. We take one ounce of pearl barley or rice, and wash it well in cold water. 4. When the water boils we put in the pearl barley or rice and half a saltspoonful of salt to help the scum to rise. 5. We now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. 6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally with a spoon. 7. If the meat is required for immediate use we should make sauce to pour over it. 8. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it and wring it in a cloth, put it on a board, and chop it up finely with a knife.400 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. 9. We put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 10. When the butter is melted we stir in smoothly half an ounce of flour with a wooden spoon. 11. We take one gill (quarter pint) of broth from the mutton, pour it on to the blitter and flour, and stir smoothly until it boils and thickens. 12. We now add the chopped parsley to the sauce, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm till required for use. 13. When the mutton is sufficiently cooked, we take out the meat and put it on a hot dish. 14. We pour the parsley sauce all over the mutton. 15. We pour the broth into a basin to cool. 16. When it is cold we should remove all the fat before warming it up for use. N.B.—If the broth is required for immediate use we can remove the grease with blotting paper or whitey-brown paper.Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery.—Beef Tea. 401 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 15. BEEF TEA. Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” (one pint and a half), INGREDIENTS- 1 lb. of gravy beef gd. Time required, about six hours. Now we will show you how to make Beef Tea. 1. We take one pound of gravy beef, put it on a board, and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put the meat into a saucepan with one pint and a half of cold water, half a saltspoonful of salt, and two or three peppercorns if allowed. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and just bring it to the boil. 4. We then move it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for five or six hours, but we must not let it reduce too much. N.B.—The lid should be on the saucepan. 5. After that time we pour off the beef tea, or strain it through a coarse cloth into a basin, and let it get cold. 6. We should remove all fat from the beef tea before warming it up for use. N.B.—Fat can be taken off hot beef tea with blotting paper or whitey-brown paper. N.B.—It is better not to strain beef tea, as it removes all the little brown particles which are most nutritious. Now it is finished. c c402 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. i 6. BEEF TEA. (made with equal quantities of beef and water.) Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” (Jialf a pint). INGREDIENTS. £ lb. of gravy beef 4\d. Time required, about three hours and a quarter. Now we will show you how to make Beef Tea. 1. We take half a pound of gravy beef put it on a board, and cut it up very finely, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put the meat into a stone jar, with half a pint of water. N.B.— In making this beef tea the quantity of meat and water should be of equal weight, i.e., one pint to one pound. 3. We put the lid on the jar, and tie a piece of paper over it. 4. We stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water on the hob for three hours, or in the oven for one hour and a half N.B.—If the jar is put into the saucepan of boiling water, we should be careful that the water does not cover the jar, or it would get inside. 50 After that time we take out the jar, and pour off the beef tea into a cup. N.B.—If allowed, we add salt according to taste.On Sick-Room Cookery.—Liebigs Beef Tea. 403 Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Lesson No. 17. LIEBIG’S QUICK BEEF TEA. Average cost of “ Beef Tea ” {half a pint). INGREDIENTS. \ lb. gravy beef 4\d. Time required, about a quarter of an hour. Now we will show you how to make Baron Liebigs quick Beef Tea. 1. We take half a pound of gravy beef put it on a board, and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. 2. We put it in a saucepan with its equal weight in water, i.e., half a pint. 3. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring it quickly to the boil. 4. We let it boil for five minutes, and then pour it off into a cup.404 National Training School for Cookery. Now it is finished. SICK-ROOM COOKERY, Lesson No. 18. SAVOURY CUSTARD. Average cost of “ Savoury Custard” {onegill). INGREDIENTS. d. 1 gill of beef tea 44 Time required, about twenty minutes. Now we will show you how to make Savoury Custard. 1. We take the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and put them in a small basin. 2. We add one gill of beef tea, and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of salt. 3. We whisk up the eggs and the beef tea well together. 4. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 5. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 6. We take a piece of whitey-brown paper and butter it. 7. We put this buttered paper over the top of the gallipot, and tie it on with a piece of string. 8. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the fire. 9. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little gallipot in it. N.B.—The water must not quite reach the paper with which the gallipot is covered. 10. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer jfor a quarter of an hour. N.B.—It must not boil, or the custard will be spoiled. 11. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take ofi the buttered paper, and the custard is ready for servingNational Training School for Cookery. 405 BUILDINGS REQUISITE FOR SCHOOLS FOR COOKERY. A school where twelve students may be practised in the several necessary processes or branches of cookery requires as follows :— 1. A room about 20 ft. x 18 ft., and not less than 10 feet high, having a small suitable stove. 2. A scujlery of somewhat less dimensions. 3. A larder, open to the north if possible. 4. A cellar for coal and wood. This may be taken as the smallest amount of accommodation which is absolutely necessary for giving constant and systematic instruction. If it be desired to give lectures to numbers exceeding twelve, another room or rooms should be provided proportioned in size to the number of persons to be accommodated. The premises for the National Training School for Cookery are temporary, and were constructed in a large iron shed. Such a shed is not to be recommended on account of the great variations of temperature in it; but the approximate dimensions of the Training School are given as affording some guide in providing the requisite accommodation for a Training school. 1. A lecture or demonstration room, accommodating, say 120 students, on seats rising above one another; size, 39 ft. x 36 ft. 2. Two practice kitchens, one for middle class cookery, size, 39 ft. x 21 ft., accommodating thirty students, and one for artizan cookery, accommodating about twelve students, size, 18 ft. x 21 ft., and not less than 10 feet high. 3. A scullery, or room used for practical lessons in cleaning utensils, &c., with sink draining out-of-doors; size, 20ft. x 15 ft. 4. A larder; size, 15 ft. x n ft. 5. An office and meal room ; size, 18 ft. x 21 ft. 6. A ladies’ waiting-room and lavatory; size, 16 ft. x 14ft. 7. A servants’ waiting-room ; size, 15 ft. x n ft. To this list a store-room and coal-cellar should be added. There is also a private demonstration room for the teachers in training; a practice class room, size 12 ft. x 24 ft., accommodating twelve children, fitted up with six little stoves, dressers the length of the room, and six sets of the simplest utensils for cookery.406 National Training School for Cookery. REGULATIONS AND FEES OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON. The National Training School for Cookery was established in the year 1874. The chief object of the school was to train teachers who should become instructors of cookery in training schools, board schools, and similar institutions. The courses of instruction in the school are :— 1. For educated persons who wish to qualify themselves to become teachers of cookery. 2. For students and cooks. 3. For those who wish to be able to practise cookery in their homes. The course of instruction for a Teacher of cookery has been drawn up by Mrs. C. Clarke, the Lady Superintendent, and is as follows:— “She first goes as a pupil through the Scullery and Demonstra- tion Classes; this takes (working every day except Saturday), one month, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., with an interval from 12 to 2 for rest and lunch. At the end of the month, the pupil goes up for “^Theoretical Examination, and her note books are looked at. She then spends one month learning in the Artizan Practice —/Kitchen, and a fortnight in teaching there what she has already learnt. She next goes into the Middle Class Practice Kitchen, and spends one month in learning, and a fortnight in teaching. The last month is devoted to Practice in Demonstrating : first, a fortnight in private, and lastly, a fortnight in public, and for which careful and full rules have been drawn up; these are hung up close to where the student stands to give her Demonstration tesson.National Training School for Cookery. 407 The fee for this five months’ course of training is ^20. [May be paid by instalments in special cases.] During her course of training at the School, the student can, if she likes, dine with the other pupils, for is., or if that is beyond her means, she is allowed to purchase any little dish that happens to be cooked as a lesson at a merely nominal charge. Students can get comfortable lodgings in the neighbourhood of the School, either with a Lady who has taken a house expressly for the pur- pose of accommodating the students of the various Art Schools at South Kensington, or at the house of the Head Cook, the charges for lodgings and partial board ranging from i6j-. to 25s. a week. Saturday is a whole holiday at the School. The staff teachers receive £2 a week all the year round, and their dinner at the School while employed in London; when sent to reside out of London they receive a further sum of 30s. a week for board and lodging, and all their travelling expenses; three months’ notice on either side terminates the engagement. When the staff teachers are all employed a few extra teachers are taken on “as improvers,” at/i a week, and thus they become competent to fill good appointments in the Provinces, when they offer. These engagements are terminable by a week’s notice on either side. The work of teachers on the staff varies somewhat according to the nature of their appointment, i.e., if employed in the School itself, she would have to be in her kitchen by 9.30 a.m. to see that her kitchen-maid had everything in proper order for the pupils to begin work at 10 a.m., the lessons end at 4 p.m.,the teacher would in most cases be able to leave the School at 5 p.m. and on Sunday she would be quite free. If the staff teacher is sent to the Provinces the hours of work in that case depend greatly upon the Local Committee who for the time being employ her, but the number of hours of work are limited to 24 in the week, to be distributed by arrangement with the Local Committee and the teacher.” There is a shorter course for teachers wishing to train for Artizan teaching only, lasting ten weeks ; the fee is £8 8s.408 National Training School for Cookery. The fees for the courses of instruction for cooks and students are as follows:— L s> d- Scullery cleaning, for five lessons io a.ra. to 12 noon o 10 6 Ten Middle Class Demonstrations and lectures .. 2 p.m. to 4p.m. 220 Ten Artizan Demonstrations and lectures 10 a.m. to 12 noon o 10 o Ten Middle Class Practice lessons 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 330 Ten Artizan Practice lessons 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 220 The necessary Provisions are found in the “ Practice Kitchens.” If the Scullery work be omitted by students in the Middle Class Practice Kitchen the fee would be 4s•> and in the Artizan Kitchen £$ 3a A limited number of daily pupils are now admitted in the Practice Kitchen at a fee of ioa 6d. for each day’s instruction to new pupils, and 6s. 6d. to old pupils. CON DITIONS ON WHICH THE SCHOOL WILL SEND OUT TEACHERS TO GIVE INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY. Drawn up by Mrs. C. CLARKE, Lady Superintendent. Terms for Weekly Engagements, JfS 5s-> and travelling expenses extra. Not more than twelve demonstration or practice lessons of two hours each are to be given in one week. A suitable room with the requisite seats, tables, stoves, utensils, fuel, and provisions, together with a kitchen-maid, must be pro- vided by those engaging the teacher. The arrangements for the lessons, the charges for admissions, as well as inserting reports and notices in the local papers, will be left entirely in the hands of the local authorities. Terms for engagements for one day only (for distances within 60 miles of London), for one lesson in the day (whether Middle Class or Plain Cookery), 211.; and 36A for two lessons, one Middle Class and one Plain Cookery. Travelling extra. If a kitchen-maid is sent with the teacher, the fee is 5A per day and travelling (third class). The fees must be prepaid. May, 1878.INDEX, A-la-mode Beef—Stews 94 Alexandra pudding—Puddings ... 281 Amber pudding—Puddings ...... 275 Anchovy sauce—Fish 199 Apple charlotte—Puddings 264 — jelly—Jellies 327 Apples and tapioca—Puddings ... 298 Apple turnovers and dumplings of short crust—Pastry 255 — water—S;ck-room cookery 391 Arrowroot, cup of— Sick-room cookery .. 386 — pudding — Sick - room cookery 386 Aspic jelly from calves’ feet— Jellies 315 Australian meat—brown puree ... 42 — caramel (browned sugar) . 43 — curried rabbit 48 —• fricassee of mutton 52 — Irish stew . 44 — mince 59 —- mulligatawny 40 — pie 50 — rissoles 54 — sausage rolls 46 — savoury hash 57 Bacon, rolls of—Entrees 76 Baked batter and fruit—Puddings 303 — fish in vinegar 212 — mackerel or herring—Fish 208 — potatoes—Vegetables 221 — stuffed haddock—Fish ... 210 Baking meat 22 PAGE Barley water (clear)—Sick-room cookery 389 — water (thick)—Sick-room cookery 390 Batter and fruit, baked—Pud- dings 303 — pudding, boiled—Puddings 284 — pudding, in a cup—Pud- dings 288- Beans, haricot—Vegetables 234 Beef, a-la-mode—Stews 94 — — —Soups 172 — braised fillets of—Entrees 68 — essence—Sick-room cookery 384 — olives—Entrees 81 — steak pi.e 121 — steak pudding 123 — — —Pastry 252 — stewed brisket of—Stews... 100 — tea, Liebig’s quick—Sick- room cookery 403 — —- Sick-room cookery 401, 402 Biscuits, milk 372 — oatmeal 373 Blanc-mange—Puddings 283 Boiled better—Puddings 284 — cauliflower—Vegetables ... 229 — cod—Fish 204 — fish 215 — fowl 144 — mutton and pai sley sauce— Sick-room cookery 399 — new potatoes—Vegetables 218 — pig’s head, salted 128 — potatoes—Vegetables 217Index. 4io Boiled rice — rice—Tripe — sheep’s head — tripe, with milk and onions —Tripe — turbot—Fish Boiling meat Bonne femme—Soups Braised fillet of veal — fillet of beef—Entrees Bran tea—Sick-room cookery ... Brawn—boiled pig’s head Brazilian stew—Stews Bread — pudding—Puddings — sauce—Roast fowl — unfermented Brisket of beef (cold) stewed— Stews Broth — Dr. Kitchener’s — Soups — mutton — Sick-room cook- ery — mutton — Sick-room cook- ery — from sheep’s head—Sheep’s head Brown bread pudding—Puddings — puree of Australian meat . — sauce—Sauces — stock Browned sheep’s head Brussels sprouts—Vegetables Buns — rice Bullock’sheart, stuffed and roasted Butter, clarifying—Frying Cabbage, pickled — soup—Soups Cabinet pudding—Puddings — — (cold)—Puddings Cakes—Corn-flour cake — dough cake — German pound cake •— plain cake — plum cake Cakes—rock 3 66 — seed cake 359 — Shrewsbury 365 — sultana cake 353 Caramel (browned sugar)—Aus- tralian meat 43 Carrot pudding—Puddings 279 Carrots—Vegetables 237 Carrots and turnips—Vegetables. 227 Cauliflower au gratin—Vege- tables 230 •— boiled—Vegetables 229 Charlotte russe—Creams 333 Chaudfroid of chicken—Entrees . 72 Cheese with maccaroni 346 — souffle—Souffles 338 — straws 349 Chicken broth — Sick - room cookery 383 — chaudfroid of—Entrees ... 72 — croquettes or rissoles of— Entrees 87 — fricassee of—Entrees 77 — panada—Sick-room cookery 382 Clarifying butter—Frying 25 — dripping—Frying 25 — fat—Frying 25 Cleaning a close kitchen range ... 13 -— a copper stewpan 15 — a gas stove 14 — an enamelled stewpan...... 15 — an iron saucepan 15 — an open kitchen range 12 Clear soup—Soups 152 Cod, boiled—Fish 204 Cold cabinet pudding—Puddings 305 — chicken, fricassee of—Entrees 79 — meat—curry 33 — — fried rissoles 37 — — goblet pie 31 .— — hashed meat 26 — — meat fritters .. 29 — — minced meat 39 — — shepherd’s pie 35 Cooked meat—curry 33 PAGE 92 103 137 104 187 20 158 109 68 396 129 96 379 292 151 38i 100 173 397 399 137 277 42 239 183 139 226 368 37o hi 25 35i 177 260 305 363 364 355 357 361411 Index. 1 • — ■ PAGE PAGE Cooked meat—fried rissoles 37 Drinks— lemonade— Sick - room — — goblet pie 3i cookery 392 — hashed meat 26 — rice water — Sick - room — — meat fritters 29 cookery 388 — — minced meat 39 — toast and water—Sick- — — shepherd’s pie ... 35 room cookery 393 Corn-flour cake—Cakes 363 — treacle posset—Sick-room — pudding—Puddings 289 cookery 395 — — in a cup—Puddings... 284 — white wine whey—Sick- Cornish pasties ii5 room cookery 395 Cow-heel jelly—Jellies 321 Dripping, clarifying—Frying 25 — stewed, with onion sauce— Dr. Kitchener’s broth—Soups ... 173 Jellies 322 Dumplings—hard dumplings 309 Cream of barley — Sick-room — Norfolk dumplings 3!Q cookery 385 Dutch sauce—Sauces 242 Creams—charlotte russe 333 — strawberry cream 33i Egg sauce—Boiled fowl 146 — vanilla cream 329 — — Fish 192 Croquettes of potato—Vegetables 224 Entrees—beef olives 81 — or rissoles of chicken— — braised fillets of beef 68 Entrees 87 — chaudfroid of chicken 72 Crowdie—Soups 174 — croquettes or rissoles of Cup of arrowroot — Sick-room chicken 87 cookery 386 — curried rabbit or veal 90 Curate’s pudding—Puddings 291 — curry (Indian) 61 Curried rabbit — Australian — fricassee of chicken 77 meat 48 — fricassee of cold chicken ... 79 — rabbit or veal—Entrees ... 90 — haricot mutton 85 Curry, of cold meat 33 — Irish stew 83 — of tripe—Tripe 102 . — mutton cutlets 70 — (Indian)—Entrees 61 — quenelles of veal 65 Custard pudding—Puddings 269 — veal cutlets 74 — sauce—Souffles 336 Essence of beef — Sick-room Cutlets, lobster—Fish 200 cookery 384 — mutton—Entrees 70 — veal—Entrees 74 Fat, clarifying—Frying 25 Fillet of veal, braised 109 Dough cake—Cakes 364 Fillets of beef, braised—Entrees . 68 Drinks—apple water—Sick-room — of sole a la maitre d’hotel— cookery 39i Fish 196 — barley water (clear)—Sick- — of sole, fried—Fish 198 room cookery ?8o Fire, to lay a *3 — barley water (thick)—Sick- Fish baked in v-negar 212 room cookery 390 — baked mackerel or herring 208 — bran tea—Sick-room cook- — baked stuffed haddock 210 ery 396 — boiled 215412 Index. Fi jh, boiled cod — boiled turbot — fillets of sole a la malt re d’hotel — fish pudding — fried fillets of sole —- fried plaice — grilled salmon — lobster cutlets — pudding— Fish — sole au gratin — whitebait Flaky crust (for pies and tarts)— Pastry Fowl, boiled — for boiling, trussing a — for roasting, trussing a —* roasted Fricassee of chicken—Entrees ... — of cold chicken—Entrees ■— of mutton — Australian meat Fried fillets of sole—Fish Fried plaice—Fish — potato-chips —- Vegetables — rissoles of cold meat — slices of potato — Vege- tables Fruit tart of short crust—Pastry Frying Genoese pastry—Pastry German pea-soup—Soups — pound-cake—Cakes — sauce—Puddings Giblet soup—Soups Gingei'-bread nuts Goblet pie—Cooked meat Grilled salmon—Fish — steak Gruel—Sick-room cookery... f. Haddock baked and stuffed—Fish Hard dumplings—Dumplings ... Haricot beans—Vegetables — mutton—Entrees PAGJ7 Hash, savoury, of Australian meat 57 Hashed meat—Cooked meat 26 Herring or mackerel, baked—Fish 208 Iceland moss jelly—Jellies 319 Invalid pudding—Puddings 300 Irish stew—Entrees 83 — —-of Australian meat ... 44 — —Stews 98 Jam tart—Pastry 259 Jellies—apple jelly 327 — aspic jelly from calves’feet 315 — cow-heel jelly 321 — Iceland moss jelly 319 — milk jelly from cow-heel... 321 — ox-foot jelly 323 — porter jelly 325 — stewed cow-heel, with onion sauce 322 — stewed ox-foot 326 — wine jelly from calves’ feet 311 Lemon pudding—Puddings 262 Lemonade—Sick-room cookery .. 392 Liebig’s quick beef-tea—Sick- room cookery 403 List of cleaning materials and utensils required in a kitchen II — utensils required in a first class school kitchen 7 — utensils required in a second class school kitchen 9 Liver and bacon 119 Lobster cutlets—Fish 200 — sauce—Fish 188 Maccaroni in milk—Maccaroni 346 — with cheese — 34-6 — soup—Soups 181 — stewed in stock 348 Mackerel or herring, baked—Fish 208 Mashed potatoes—Vegetables ... 220 — turnips—Vegetables 235 Mayonnaise—Sauces 240 PAGE 204 187 196 190 198 213 206 200 190 194 193 258 144 144 148 148 77 79 52 198 213 222 37 223 247 24 248 180 355 278. 165 37i 31 206 117 394 . 2io 3°9 234 S5413 Index. Meat, Australian—brown puree . — caramel (browned sugar) — — curried rabbit ... —: — fricassee of mut- ton — — Irish stew — — mince — — mulligatawny ... — — pie — — rissoles — — sausage rolls — — savoury hash ... — baking — boiling — fritters—Cooked meat — hashed—Cooked meat ... — minced—Cooked meat ... — pie, of Australian meat ... — pie, beef-steak — pudding, beef-steak — re-cooked—Curry — re-cooked—Fried rissoles. — re-cooked—Goblet pie ... — re-cooked—Hashed meat. — re-cooked—Meat fritters . — re-cooked—Minced meat . — re-cooked—Shepherd’s pie — roasting Milk biscuits — jelly from cow - heel— Jellies — rolis v — soup—Soups Mince, of Australian meat Minced meat—Cooked meat Mock-turtle—Soups Mutton, boiled, with parsley sauce —Sick-room cookery ... — broth—Sick-room cookery — — Sick-room cookery — cutlets—Entrees — fricassee, of Australian meat — haricot—Entrees Mulligatawny, of Australian meat FAGE New potatoes boiled—Vege- tables 218 Norfolk dumplings—Dumplings 310 Oatmeal biscuits 373 Omelet, savoury 344 — souffle 342 Onion sauce—Boiled pig’s head... 128 Ox-foot jelly—Jellies 323 Oyster sauce—Fish 205 Pancakes—Puddings. 266 Pastry—beef-steak pie 121 — beef-steak pudding 252 — Cornish pasties 115 — flaky crust, for pies and tarts 258 — fruit tart of short crust ... 247 — Genoese pastry 248 — patty cases of puff paste ... 243 — pie—Australian meat 50 — pork pie 131 — puff.paste 243 — rissoles of Australian meat 54 — rissoles of chicken—Entrees 88 — rough puff paste, for pies, tarts, and tartlets 250 — sausage rolls 133 — sausage rolls of Australian meat 46 —• short crust 246 — short crust for apple turn- overs and dumplings ... 255 — suet crust 252 — tartlets of puff paste 244 Patty cases of puff paste— Pasry 245 Pea soup (German)—Soups 180 — —Soups 178 Peas—Vegetables 233 Pickle for meat 352 Pickled cabbage 351 Pie of Australian meat 50 — beefsteak 121 Pie, shepherd’s, of cold meat 35 Pie, pork 131 ! Pig’s fry—Poor man’s goose 126 I PAGE 42 43 48 52 44 59 40 50 54 46 57 22 20 29 26 39 5o 121 123 33 37 3i 26 29 39 35 17 372 321 376 175 59 39 167 399 397 399 70 52 851 40 1Index. 4H PAGE Pig’s head, salted and boiled 128 Piquante sauce—Sauces 241 Plaice, fried—Fish 213 Plain cake—Cakes 357 Plum cake—Cakes 361 — pudding—Puddings 270, 296 Poor man’s goose—Pig’s fry 126 Pork pie 131 Porter jelly—Jellies 325 Potato chips, fried—Vegetables... 222 — croquettes—Vegetables .. 224 — fried slices • of—Vegetables 223 — souffle—Souffles 340 Potatoes, baked—Vegetables 221 — boiled—Vegetables 217 — mashed—Vegetables 220 — new, boiled—Vegetables 218 — puree of—Soups 160 — saute—Vegetables 221 — steamed—Vegetables 218 Pot-au-feu, or soup—Soups 170 Puddings—Alexandra pudding ... 281 — amber pudding 275 — apple charlotte 264 — arrowroot Sick - room cookery 386 — baked batter and fruit 303 — batter pudding in a cup ... 288 — beef-steak 123 — beef steak—Pastry 252 — bfcB£ -mange 283 — boiled batter 284 —• bread-pudding 292 — brown bread pudding 277 — cabinet pudding 260 — carrot pudding 279 — cold cabinet pudding 305 — corn-flour pudding 289 — corn-flour pudding in a cup 286 — curate’s pudding 291 — custard pudding 269 — fish—Fish 190 — invalid pudding 300 — lemon pudding 262 — pancakes 266 PAGE Puddings—plum pudding 270 — plum puddings 296 — rice pudding 268 — rice pudding (with egg) ... 290 — semolina pudding 302 — suet pudding 307 — tapioca and apples 298 — treacle pudding 294 — Viennoise or Vennoise pudding 273 — Yorkshire puddings 308 Puff paste—Pastry 243 — rough, for pies, tarts, and tartlets—Pastry 250 Puree, brown—Australian meat... 42 — of potatoes—Soups 160 Quenelles of veal—Entrees ... 65 Rabbit curried—Australian meat 48 — curry of—Entrees 90 Rice, boiled 92 — — Tripe 103 — buns 370 — water—Sick-room cookery 388 — pudding (with egg) — Puddings 290 — pudding 268 Rissoles, fried—Cooked meat 37 — of Australian meat 54 — or croquettes of chicken— Entrees 87 Roast bullock’s heart, stuffed ... m — fowl 148 Roasting meat 17 Rock cakes 366 Rolls of bacon—Entrees 76 Rough puff paste, for pies, tarts, and tartlets—Pastry ... 250 Salmon, grilled—Fish 206 Sauce, anchovy—Fish 199 — bread 151 — brown—Sauces 239 —■ custard—Souffles 336 — Dutch—Sauces 242 — egg 146Index. 415 Sauce—egg—Fish 192 — for boiled fish—Fish 215 — German—Puddings 278 — lobster—Fish 188 — mayonnaise—Sauces 240 — oyster—Fish 205 — piquant e—Sauces 241 — Tartare—Fish 207 — white—Sauces 238 — wine—Soufflds 336 — wine or brandy—Puddings 272 Sausage rolls 133 — of Australian meat 46 Saute potatoes—Vegetables 221 Savoury custard—Clear soup ... 154 — — Sick-room cookery 404 — hash of Australian meat .. 57 — omelet 344 Scones 374 Sea pie 135 Seed cake—Cakes 359 Semolina pudding—Puddings ... 302 Sheep’s head, boiled 137 — — broth 137 — — browned 139 Shepherd’s pie—Cooked meat ... 35 Short-bread 375 Short crust—Pastry 246 — for apple dumplings and turnovers—Pastry 255 Shrewsbury cakes 365 Sick-room cookery—apple water 391 — — arrowroot pudding 386 — — barley water (clear) 389 — — barley water (thick) 390 — — beef tea 401, 402 — — boiled mutton, with parsley sauce 399 — — bran tea 396 — — chicken panada ... 382 — — cream of barley ... 385 -— — cup of arrowroot... 386 — — gruel 394 — — lemonade 392 — — Liebig’s quick beef tea.... 403 PAGE Sick-room cookery—mutton broth 397, 399 — — rice water 388 — — savoury custard ... 404 — — toast and water ... 393 — — treacle posset 395 — — white wine whey... 395 Sole a la maitre d’hotel, fillets of —Fish 196 — au gratin—Fish 194 — fried fillets of—Fish 198 Souffle, cheese—Souffles 338 — omelet 342 — potato—Souffles 340 — vanilla—Souffles 334 Soups—bonne femme soup 158 — cabbage soup 177 — clear soup 152 — crowdie 174 — Dr. Kitchener’s broth 173 — German pea soup 180 — giblet soup 165 — maccaroni soup 181 — milk soup 175 — mock turtle soup 167 — mulligatawny soup — Aus- tralian meat 40 — pea soup 178 — pot-au-feu 170 — puree of potatoes 160 — spring vegetable soup 162 — tapioca cream 156 Spinach—Vegetables 231 Spring vegetable soup—Soups ... 162' Steak, grilled 117 — stewed 141 Steamed potatoes—Vegetables ... 218 Stewed beef or ox-cheek, with vegetables—Pot-au-feu... 170 — cow-heel, with onion sauce —Jellies 322 — ox-foot—Jellies 326 — steak 141 Stew, Irish, of Australian meat... 44 — — Entrees 83 Stews—a-la-mode beef 94Index. 416 Stews—Brazilian stew — Irish stew — stewed brisket of beef (cold) Stock, brown — made with vegetables — white Strawberry cream—Creams Suet crust—Pastiy .- — pudding—Puddings Sultana cake—Cakes Tapioca and apples—Puddings — cream—Soups Tart filled with jam—Pastry Tartare sauce—Fish . Tartlets of puff paste—Pastry Toad-in-the-hole Toast and water—Sick-room cookery Treacle posset—Sick-room cook- ery — pudding—Puddings Tripe a la Coutance—Tripe — boiled, with milk and onions — curried tripe Trussing a fowl for boiling — a fowl for roasting Turbot, boiled—Fish Turnips and carrots—Vegetables — mashed—Vegetables Unfermented bread Vanilla cream—Creams — souffle—Souffles Veal, fillet of, braised Veal, curry of—Entrees 90 — cutlets—Entrees 74 — quenelles of—Entrees 65 Viennoise, or Vennoise pudding— Puddings 273 Vegetables, baked potatoes 221 —- boiled cauliflower 229 — boiled new potatoes 218 — boiled potatoes 217 — brussels sprouts 226 — carrots 237 — carrots and turnips 227 — cauliflower au gratin 230 — fried potato chips 222 — fried slices of potato 223 — haricot beans . 234 — mashed potatoes 220 — mashed turnips 235 — Peas 233 — potato croquettes 224 — saute potatoes 221 — spinach 231 — steamed potatoes 218 Vegetable stock 185 Whitebait—Fish 193 White sauce—Sauces 238 — stock 183 — wine whey — Sick-room cookery 395 Wine jelly from calves’ feet— Jellies 311 — or brandy sauce—Puddings 272 — sauce—Souffles 336 Yorkshire pudding—-Puddings 308 Yorkshire tea cakes.... 377 END. PAGE 96 98 IOO 183 185 183 331 252 307 353 298 156 259 207 244 143 393 395 294 106 104 102 144 148 1-87 227 235 381 329 334 109 tiie : BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO , PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARSRational draining Sfjwl for (Mbs ^bkrtim. September 25, 1B79. Edition1, 2000 Copies. THE NEW GAS COOKER. The above Cookers are jacketted on the sides, top, and door, with a new and very efficient non- conducting material, by the use of which a great saving of Gas, to the extent of 40 per cent, is effected, by preventing loss of heat in the oven by radiation. The material is a Silica, specially prepared for us, and experiments show that its non-conducting properties are superior to those of Hair Felt (which has long been considered the best non-conductor), while it has the advantage of not being destroyed or affected by heat. Stoves made in this way are, of course, a little higher in price than those which are not jacketted, but when the saving in the daily consumption of gas is taken into account, the former are really the cheaper. “The best Gas Stove I have seen.”—W. B., Birmingham. “ It is simply perfect. I can suggest no improvement.”—G. W., Leominster. “ Will do any amount of work required by a private family at a great saving of fuel.”—J. W., Retford. “ It is far superior to any others.”—H. R., Handsworth. “ It has roasted, baked bread, boiled for three (and sometimes four) meals per day for six persons, at a cost of 4d. per day. We never have a coal fire.”—R. C., North Shields.—For Prices apply to JOHN WRIGHT & CO., ESSEX WORKS, BROAD STREET, BIRMINGHAM. LONDON WAREHOUSES—155a, Upper Thames-st. & 1, Little Bush Lane. D D418 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery, SILICATED CARBON FILTERS Are used in the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington. DOMESTIC FILTER, Made in Cream-coloured Stoneware. No. 27. With Ice PRICES: Compartment. No. O, capacity £ gallon .. ios. 6d. No. A, ,, i ,, .. i4s. 6d. 17s. 6d. No. B, ,, 2 „ .. 2 is. od. 25s. od. No. C, ,, 4 ,, •• 32s. od. 36s. od. No. D, ,, 6 ,, .. 42s. od. 48j. od. No. E, ,, 8 „ •• 52J. od. 60s. od. No. F, ,, 12 ,, .. 70s. od. 80s. od. DINING ROOM FILTER, Made in Marbled China. No. 22. Size A holds about 2 gallons, size B 5 gallons. PRICES: A, 35s.; B, 80s. A, with Ice Compartment, 42s. (New Patent). B, with Ice Compartment, 100s. (New Patent). MAIN SUPPLY FILTER, For Purifying the whole of the Water Supply of a Building before use. Ensuring rapid and perfect filtration, at either high or low pressure. Specially adapted for g HOUSES OF ALL SIZES, MANSIONS, SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS, & PUBLIC ’ INSTITUTIONS, where large quantities of PURE WATER are required. No. 40. The ordinary sizes kept hi Stock are asfollows :— A £• inch or J inch pipe, £6 6s. B 1 inch pipe, £9 9s. C 1£ inch or 1J inch pipe, £15 15c. D 2 inch pipe, £26 5s. This Filter is extremely simple in construction, and easily fixed, it can be either connected with a Cistern, or attached to the Main Service Pipe. It requires no attention beyond an occasional opening of the Cleansing Tap, and will deliver a supply of purified water at a rate of 50 to r,ooo gallons per hour, according to size. Ilhistrated Price Lists of all the Patterns and sizes manufactured. sent post free on application to THE SILICATED CARBON FILTER COMPANY, Church Road, Battersea, London, S.W.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 419 ONCE USED TRADE MARK "ARM & DOLLY” . ON EVERY PACKET ALWAYS USED WITHOUT WHICH NONE IS GENUINE BEWAREOF IMITATIONS HUDSON’S The Grand Gold Medal,Paris EXTRACTofSOAP Lathers Freely, Softens Wafer, and should ALWAYS BE USED For WASHING Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c. For WASHING Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c. For SCOURING Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c. For CLEANING Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c. And for every purpose of Washing and Cleansing. Sold in 1 lb., % lb., and % lb. Packets. W ASK FOR Liebig COMPANY’S EXTRACT OF MEAT A slight addition mnmtn,t „ . of the Extract gives CAUTION. - Genuine ONLY strength and with fac-simile of Baron Liebig’s great sirengtn anu Signature, in Blue Ink, across flavour to Soups, Label. Made Dishes, and *** In use in most households throughout SaUCeS, and effects the kingdom. great economy.420 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. GAS COOKING STOVES Constructed with all the Latest Improvements. JVo. 139. Size, 30 inches high 18 ,, wide 15 ,, deep Price 70s. Has two burners on top for Boiling, and Sliding Tray under Hot Plate. This is a useful Stove for small family. No. 135 Is a Larger Stove. Size, 36 inches high 22 ,, wide 16 ,, deep Has three burners on top for Boiling. Price 105s. A large assortment of Gas Cooking Stoves always on show, and large Sheet of Draw- ings, with full particulars, sent on application. Gas Hot Plates and Hot Closets. SUPERIOR BOILING STOVES No. Diameter of Top. d. 0 ... 4! in. ... 2 3 1 •• Sa >» 2 6 2 ... 6£„ ... 3 0 3 . ... 7 „ ... 3 6 4 . - 7f >> - 4 6 D. HULETT & CO., Gas Engineers, 55 & 56, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 421 r The Best Articles for Washing, jpOR^ASHING Lace, Linen, Muslins, Flannel, Merino, &c. Without Injury to the Hands, Colour or Fabric s And for all Cleansing Purposes. 0 A KEY’S WELLINGTON KNIFE POLISH. Knives constantly cleaned with it have a brilliant polish, equal to new cutlery. Packets, 3d. each, and Tins, 6d., Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. each. OAKEY’S SILVERSMITH’S SOAP. (NON-MERCURIAL.) The lest and cheapest article for cleaning and polishing without waste or dirt. Silver, Electro-plate, Britannia Metal, Tin, Zinc, Plate Glass, Marble, Gas Globes, Lustres, Windows, &c. Tablets, Gd. each. OAKEY’S POLISHING PASTE. For cleaning and polishing Brass, Copper, Tin, Pewter, Britannia Metal, Glass, &c. Pots, Gd. and Is. each. OAKEY’S WELLINGTON BLACKLEAD Imparts an immediate brilliant and lasting polish to all kinds of Stoves, Ironwork, &c. No WASTE, DIRT, or DUST in the use. Solid Blocks, Id., 2d., and 4d. each; and Is. Boxes. OAKEY’S IMPROVED EMERY CLOTH Is the best and most economical for all purposes. Each sheet of this quality is stamped “ Oakey’s Improved.” WELLINGTON EMERY d BLACKLEAD MILLS, LONDON,422 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. ECONOMY IN FUEL! PERFECTION IN COOKING!! CLEANLINESS AND COMFORT IN THE KITCHEN!! Patent Close & Open Fire Cooking Range (No. 220) MANUFACTURED BY THE PATENTEES NEWTON, CHAMBERS & CO., THORNCLIFFE IRON WORKS, NEAR SHEFFIELD. Branch Establishments—1, Holborn Viaduct, London, E.C., &. 47, Sheffield Moor, Sheffield. Consisting of two Sheet-iron Ovens for Baking and Roasting, fitted with Bright Bands and Disc Latch, Venti- lator and Air-pipe, Flue Doors, Moveable Grated and Plain Shelves, Cast-iron Plate Rack between the Ovens, Sheet-iron Door over the Plate Rack to lift off and give access to the Chimney, Hot Plate for Boiling, Frying, Stewing, and Grilling, with Moveable Covers ; Cover over Fire can be thrown back, thus making the Range into an open Fire Range ; Bracket Shelf along front of Hot Plate, Square Slip along back and side, with Fold- ing Doors at back of Fire for opening into Chimney when an open fire is required. The Range consists ot Wrought Top and Bottom Bar and Three Moveable Cast Iron Bars, Door in Front of Range fitted with Band and Knob, Cast Iron Hot Closet under Hot Plate with Cast Grated Shelf and Saddle, fitted with Bright Bands and Disc Latch, Wrought Iron Boiler at back of fire, fitted Manhole, Pipe and Tap, one pair of Slide Dampers, Top Plates over Ovens with Dampers and Flue Pipes, Wrought Hook and Flue Cleaner, Four Quarries for Flue, and one for side of Hot Closet, Meat Stand, Gridiron, and Ashes Guard. No Down Draught ! Flues Ascending 1 THE THORNCLIFFE RANGE. PRICES AS FOLLOWS:— For | 7ft by 5ft 6in | 6ft by 5ft 6in | 5ft 6in by 5ft 3in | 5ft by 5ft | 4ft 9in by 5ft | 4ft 6in by 4ft 9in | Openings. With | 22-inch j | 22-inch | 20-inch | 18-inch | 16i-inch | 15-inch | Ovens. With | 20-inch j | 16-inch | 14-inch | 12-inch | 11-inch | 10-inch | Ranges. With | 6-feet | S-feet | 4ft 6in | 4-feet | 3ft 9in | 3ft 6in | Hot Plates. _±_ £42 1 £36 1 £32 1 £27 10s. I £26 10s. | £25 | each. Delivered Free at any Railway Station. Ii with Feed Cistern 20 inches long, 14 inches deep, fitted with Ball Tap, Copper Ball, Check Valve, and Union Joint, £2 7s. each extra. I If with Double-tin Dripper, 12s. 6d. each extra. If without Boiler, ^5 each less. | If without Hot Closet under Hot Closet under Hot Plate, £1 5s. each less. Prices of smaller sizes with one Oven and one Hot Closet only, to suit 3ft. 6in. by 4ft. 6in., 3ft. 9in. by 4ft. 6in., and 4ft. by 4ft. 6in. openings, may be had on application ; also Plans of Fixing, Instructions for Working, and Fac-simile Testimonials. Experienced Men sent out to fix these Ranges, and satisfaction guaranteed.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 423 MCCALL’S PAYSANDU OX TONGUES. SOLD BY ALL GROCERS. Goddard’s Plate Powder For more than a quarter of a century this Powder has sustained an unrivalled reputation throughout the United Kingdom and Colonies as the BEST ARTICLE for CLEANING SILVER and ELECTRO-PLATE. Also polished TIN GOODS (see special directions with each box). Sold in Boxes, is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. each, by Chemists, Ironmongers, Silversmiths, &c., throughout the Kingdom. Also GODDARD’S FURNITURE CREAM, for polishing all kinds of Cabinet Furniture, In Bottles, 6d. and is. each. Manufactured by J. GODDARD, Station Street, Leicester. THOMAS CARLYLE’S WORKS. PEORLE’S EDITION. In 37 vols. small crown 8vo, price 2s. each vol., bound in cloth. Sartor Resartus. French Revolution. 3 vols. Life of John Sterling. Oliver Cromwell’s Letters and Speeches. 5 vols. On Heroes and Hero Worship. Past and Present. Latter-Day Pamphlets. Critical and Miscellaneous Essays. 7 vols. Life of Schiller. Frederick the Great. 10 vols. Wilhelm Meister. 3 vols. Translations from Musaeus, Tieck, and Richter. 2 vols. The Early Kings of Norway; also an Essay on the Portraits of Johu Knox. With General Index. IIHTtARY EDITION Handsomely printed, in 34 vols. demy 8vo, cloth 15/. CHEAP AND UNIFORM EDITION. In 23 vols. crown 8vo, cloth, 71. 5^. CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.424 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. J, WILLIAMSON, 40 & 41, KIRBY STREET, HATTON GARDEN, LONDON, E.C., SOLE MANUFACTURER OF B. & W.’s PATENT GAS STOVES. These Stoves were exhibited at Birmingham., ..1878 Wolverhampton 1878 Bradford ,.1879 Keighley .1879 Halifax ,.1879 Leeds .1879 York .1879 Kilburn .1879 Greenook .1879 ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS on APPLICATION. NO. II & 12 EXTRACTS FROM TRADE JOURNALS. “The castings in these stoves are really good.”—Martineau Smith's Trade Circular, June 1878, “Mr. Williamson is a London maker, whose productions are really good, well-made and finished, and moderate in price.”—Iromnotiger, April 1879. “ From our knowledge of the tests Mr. Williamson’s Stoves underwent at the late Gas Exhibition, LEEDS, there is no doubt that their capabilities are of a very high order.”—Ironmonger, July 1879. Copy of Certificate given at Leeds Corporation Exhibition of Gas Apparatus, April 1879. “ No. 9 Stove was tested in the Hall by desire of Mr. J. Williamson, with the following results WORK DONE—Leg of Mutton roasted, 4 loaves of Bread baked. Time 2I1. 25m. Gas consumed 40 ft., cost at 2s. 6d. per 1000, 1 \d. lb. oz. Weight of Raw Meat 8 15 lb. oz. ,, ,, Cooked ,, 6 9 difference 2 6 or 26.6 per cent. Weight of dripping 1 5 Actual loss 1 1 or 10.2 per cent. “ Quality of Cooking * well done,’ as certified by A. Champion, chef to Mr. Allen, Queen’s Hotel, Leeds. (< . . f Henry Woodhall, Engineer. taignea; ^ j -yy Helps, Superintendent.”Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 425 HOUSEHOLD WORDS. FREEMAN’S CUSTARD POWDER. FREEMAN’S EGG POWDER. FREEMAN’S BAKING POWDER. TRADE |TRY IT I MARK. Sold by Corn Dealers, Grocers, etc., everywhere. ADVICE TO LADIES! FROM AN EXPERIENCED HOUSEWIFE. If there’s one thing I’d recommend, Or of its worth speak louder (And this I tell you as a friend), ’Tis Freeman’s Baking Powder. Freeman—wherever I may go, His name I’ll always mention As one who has dispelled, I know, The cause of much contention. I used to vex my husband dear : My pastry did not please him ; And, though he’d seldom interfere, He thought ’twas done to tease him. But now when I my pastry view, No peacock could feel prouder; And Freeman, ’tis all owing to Your well-known Baking Powder. Sold in the Country by all Grocers. Imitations I am often shown, And some so wish to vend it, I find the compound is their own, And simply say, “Don’t send it.” They plead—I’m staunch, and will not All other kinds disdain; [buy, And some have dared to say that I Have Freeman on the brain. Try it for puddings, pies or cake; Try it when making bread; Insist on having FREEMAN’S make, No other use instead. Freeman ! the name I’ll ne’er forget. Though I grow e’er so old. I never have such powder met; ’Tis worth its weight in gold. Sold by Corn Dealers, Grocers, &c., in London. EVERYONE LIKES CUSTARD. T NEVER SAW MY HUSBAND so astonished as, after eating a Custard I had made him, he asked, “ How many eggs were used?” I replied, “None at all.” He could not believe it. You would not believe it. A Penny Packet of FREEMAN'S CUSTARD POWDER makes a Pint of delicious Custard without Eggs. It is sold by Corn Dealers, Grocers, &e., in London, and in the Country by all Grocers. If, however, any trouble exists, send for a Sample Box of Six Penny Packets, Post free for Seven Stamps, to FREEMAN & HILDYARD, Dover Rd., Borough, London.426 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. EASY TO MAW AGE. THE NEW IMPROVED GAS COOKING STOVES, Specially adapted to the requirements of Domestic Economy. UNEQUALLED for EFFICIENCY, STRENGTH, or CHEAPNESS. No. 135. FAMILY STOVE, 36 in. high, will cook for a family of 12 persons. Roast a joint of meat 16 lbs., bake large pie and two fowls, boil three sorts of vegetables, large salmon, and soup, at a cost of 1 \d. per hour. E. RIPPINGILLE & COMPANY, 69, HATTON GARDEN, LONDON, manufacturers of Reflector Gas Cooking and Cheerful Warming Stoves, Conservatory Stoves, Hot Plates, Boiling Stoves, Coal and Gas Ironing Stoves, &c. Before Purchasing, write for Illustrated Price List of our Specialties, post free, SHOW ROOM AT THE ABOVE ADDRESS. CLEAN AND EXPEDITIOUSAdvertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 427 JOSEPH RODGERS & SONS {LIMITED), CUTLERS, lln spi'cml appointment to Per Utaiesttr, 6, NORFOLK ST., SHEFFIELD, AND 4, Cullum St., Fenchurch St., London. CORPORATE MARK, * ^ TABLE CUTLERY & CARVERS OF VERY SUPERIOR QUALITY, In Handles of Pearl, Ivory, Stag, Bone, Horn, Ivoride, Ebonite, and various kinds of Wood. TO SUIT ALL CLIMATES & MARKETS. J. R. & Sons have recently introduced their EBONITE CUTLERY, WHICH FOR WEAR CANNOT BE SURPASSED. The Handle cannot be detached from the Blade by boiling water or the most powerful knife-cleaning machine. They now adapt this material to their Best French Cooks’-Knives. These will be found vastly superior to those hitherto made in Ebony wood, which soon CRACK by heat and accident. J. R. & Sons are the Sole Manufacturers of these Articles.428 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. MANUFACTURED AND SOED BY HAMMOND’S GAS COOKUGr STOVES, ROAST, FRY, GRILL, BAKE, BOIL, STEW, Sc. With a clear fire always ready> and under perfect control. F. HAMMOND, 5, CHANDOS STREET, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, I.C. ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.Advertisements.—Natmial Training School for Cookery. 429 ADAMS & SON, MANUFACTURING AND GENERAL HOOSE FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN, H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES, AND ALSO TO THE PRINCIPAL LONDON CLUBS, 57, HA YMAII KILT, S.W. Show Rooms, with a large assortment of Kitchen Ranges, Grates, Fenders, Fire Irons, Baths,, Tea Trays, Tea Urns, Electro-Silver Plated Goods, Cutlery, Turnery, Brushes, &c., &c. CAPT. WARREN’S PATENT COOKING POT. In consequence of the great success of Captain F. P. Warren’s, R.N., New and Patented System- of Cooking, Adams & Son have the pleasure to announce that they have now on sale some of his Patent Cooking Pots of an entirely new pattern, and of a more convenient form ; they are made of the strongest block-tin, and copper-bottomed, and specially designated “The Depot Pattern,” and Sold only at the DEPOT, 57, HAYMARKET, S.W. EXTERIOR THE AFGHAN WAR. The Times correspondent writing from Jellalabad, A, December 21st, says :—“ Everyone is loud in praise of ■»' the Warren Cooking Pot. The meals at General Mac- pherson’s mess are cooked almost entirely with it, and the dishes it turns out are most successful. It is also very handy, light, economical, and cheap.”— Vide Times, January 28, 1879. INTERIOR. DEPOT PATTERN. No. o. SIZES AND PRICES AS UNDER. Length. by Width. 9 9 12 13 Height, by 9 >» 13 • „ 14 • 17 DEPOT PATTERN. Price.—£ s. d. 0 19 1 7 1 13 1 18 *** No. o is without a Steamer ; Nos. 1, 2, 3, have Steamers for Vegetables. A is to contain the Water. B the Meat, Game, Curry, or whatever is to be cooked. C need be put on only when Vegetables are to be cooked. The pipe in the side of B delivers the Steam into the Chamber C, without having any access into the interior of B, the meat being cooked completely without any moisture but what it gives out as it becomes heated. . . The lid is made double, to prevent the radiation of Heat and condense the Steam. Also on Sale at the Depot, Capt. Warren’s Patent Curry Pan, and Patent Fish Kettle. SPECIAL NOTICE. Adams & Son beg to mention that they are prepared to supply the KITCHEN IRONMONGERY comprised in the Lists at the beginning of this Book at the prices specified ; quality may be relied on_ Adams & Son’s new and enlarged Catalogue, containing various specifications for the proper Furnishing of Kitchens, the quantities prepared under the superintendence of the late Mr. C. E. Francatelli, author of the celebrated “ Cook’s Guide,” &c., sent post free on application. ADAMS & SON, 57, Haymarket, and 14, Norris Street, S.W.43° Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. PRYN, STEPHENS & MILLER, No. 5, Betterton St,, Long Acre. PRYN, STEPHENS & MILLER, GAS APPARATUS MANUFACTURERS, No. 5, BETTERTON STREET, LONG ACRE. STOVES Warranted. A large Assortment kept in StOGk. GAS COOKING STOVE, No. 139, £3 10s. Od. CMze, 29 in. high, 17 in. wide, 13% in. deep. Hot Plate, 18 in. wide, 15 in. deep, with one oval and one ring burner, with sliding tray under hot plate. Will Roast a Joint 10 lbs.. Couple of Fowls, Grill Chops, Steaks, Bacon, and Fish Toast Bread, Bake Pastry, Rice Puddings, Potatoes, &c.; Boil, Fry, or Stew. If with Roaster, tin-lined and moveable trivet, 12s. extra. If with moveable Polished Copper Reflector, for radiating the heat into the room, 24s. extra. Stoves from 10s. 6d. upwards. All kinds of cheerful stoves for warming rooms, halls, offices, &c. PRICE PL ST ON APPLICATION.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 431 OLD PLATED ARTICLES RE-SILVERED, AND MADE EQUAL TO NEW. CHARGES MODERATE. Price Lists on Application. F. EWBANK LEEFE, Electro-Silversmith and Gilder, 289, Goswell Road, London. WASHING DAY NOW NO NUISANCE, BY USING SINCLAIR’S CONCENTRA TED COLD WATER SOAP (SELF-WASHING). This is truly a wonderful Invention. No Fire required. No Steam penetrating the house and rendering the home miserable, besides causing colds, coughs, and disease. It cannot injure the most delicate fabric, is pleasant in use, is the best sort of Soap for all purposes. Hundreds of households now enjoy additional comfort and have the advantage of saving TIME, MONEY, AND FUEL. Wherever introduced is pronounced Excellent, Marvellous Wonderful, &c. FOURPENCE DER, POUND. Printed Directions supplied with each Pound Parcel. JAMES SINCLAIR, 15, Redcross St., Southwark, London. CHARLES DICKENS’S WORKS. THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION. Complete in 30 vols. demy 8vo, 10s. each, or Sets ^15. THE “ CHARLES DICKENS EDITION.” In 21 vols. crown 8vo, cloth, with Illustrations, ,£3 gs. 6d. With Illustrations, price 3$. 6d. each. Pickwick Papers. Martin Chuzzlewit. Dombey and Son. Nicholas Nickleby. David Copperfield. A Tale of Two Cities. Sketches by Boz. American Notes and Reprinted Pieces, Christmas Books. Bleak House. Little Dorrit. Our Mutual Friend. Edwin Drood, and other Stories. With Illustrations, price 3s. each. ‘ Oliver Twist. Barnaby Rudge. Christmas Stories, from Household Words. Old Curiosity Shop. A Child’s History of England Great Expectations. Hard Times and Pictures from Italy, Uncommercial Traveller. CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.432 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. S. FOXALL, 33 & 33a, Marylebone Lane, London, W. May be Purchased of all Furnishing Ironmongers.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 433 W« JONES, DRAY, & CO.’S IMPROVED KITCHEI RAI&ES. OPEN FIRE CLOSED FJR£ ECONOMY OF FUEL. This special advantage will at once be secured by the use of JONES, DRAY, and CO.’S IMPROVED KITCHEN RANGES, as they can be used either with •a close or open fire, convertible at a minute’s notice while alight. They are moderate in price, durable and cheerful looking, and a cure for smoky Chimneys ; they roast before the fire with a bottle jack, and roast or bake (as required) in a large WELD VENTILATED ROASTER. Vessels may be kept boiling on the whole of the Top Plate, which is also an excellent IRONING STOVE. By a recent improvement the smell and steam of the cooking food is not distributed ovet the house, but into its proper receptacle—the chimney. WILLIAM JONES, DRAY, & CO., 27, CASK STREET, LEICESTER SQUARE, LONDON. E E434 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. LOVELOCK’S IMPROVED MINCING & SAUSAGE MAKING MACHINES AND COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE, PRICES OF THE BEE MINCER. No. i. 10s. 6d. No. 2. 15s. Od. No. 3. 21s. Od. No. 4. 42s. Od. PRICES OF COFFEE MILLS. No. I. 6s. Od. No. 2. 8s. Od. No. 3. 10s. Od. No. 4. 14s. Od. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy are invaluable in every household. Can be obtained of Ironmongers and Dealers in all parts of the World. Wholesale of J. F. LOYELOCK, Broadway Works, George Street, Hackney, London. ESTABLISHED 1856. SIN CLAIK’S ROYAL BALMORAL BAKING POWDER. International Prize Medals, London 1873, Cape Town 1877. The increasing sale of this excellent Baking Powder is one of the best proofs of its superiority. Customers write to say it is preferred to others that are extensively puffed, and the Manufacturer is encouraged to recommend it to practical housekeepers as being economical, and a valuable addition to good cookery. Experienced Cooks say it is the Best. Experience proves it is also the Cheapest. Every one desiring to excel in the Culinary Art should use it. Sold in Packets of Extra Large Size at id. and 2d. each, in Canisters. Usual 6d. size for 4d.; usual is. size for 6d. JAMES SINCLAIR, 15, Redcross St., Southwark, London.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 435 BROWN & GREEN’S KITCHEN RANGES. FIVE PRIZE MEDALS. THE “GEM” PORTABLE COOKING STOVES. A Lady Writes :—“ It is the most wonderful little Stove ever invented. One scuttle of coals lasts three days.” Price of this size 32s. A Gentleman testifies he cooks for a Family of ten per- sons with eight pounds of coals. Price ^4. Mr. Buckmastek, of the South Kensington Museum, has one, and recommends it. Price £3 5S‘ Everybody is pleased with it. The Best and most Economical for Home and Export Use. Made in over 20 different sizes. Price Lists free. Prices of Stoves to burn ail night, for Greenhouses, Halls, Bedrooms, &c., on application. These Celebrated Ranges Roast in front of the fire, and continue Pre- eminent for Economy, General Convenience, Heating- Baths, Thorough Ventilation, and the Prevention of Smoky Chimneys; made also with one Oven and Side Boiler, For HOTELS these Jtanejes are made with a SPECIAL MOA8TING FILE, and with Txvo or more Ovens and JRoasters. BROWN & GREEN, Limited, PRIZE MEDAL KITCHEN RANGE AND STOVE MANUFACTURERS, Luton; and 72, Bishopsgate Street, London, E.C. E E 2436 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. BURBIDGE’S PATENT WINE, BEER, OR CYDER TAP. DIRECTIONS.—In tapping a cask, take out the key, and with the hand press the part of the stem marked B against the cork, and by turning it round at the same-time it will cut its way through; push it then up to the shoulder. When the tap is taken out of the cask, the piece of cork will be left inside the stem A B ; this can be easily extracted by a corkscrew, and is again ready for use. ADVANTAGES.—The tap is made of white metal, and the wearing parts are of patent glass. The top sliding piece moves from off the bottom hole by means of a screw placed outside the liquid, con- sequently there is no friction, and ales or wines are kept perfectly clear, and, coming into contact with glass only, it is free from all taste of the metal. No acids or cyders will eat into the glass, as it does in all metals, and there will be no leak. Nothing but the pressure of the hand is required to tap a cask. Nothing will be spilt in doing so. No paper required to wrap round the stem. The operation so easy that the finest liquors are not disturbed. Cannot be damaged either in tapping or taking out, and once used will be found THE MOST PERFECT TAP ON RECORD. THOMAS BURBIDGE, 69, Hatton Garden, London, E.C. Works: Union Foundry, Melksham, Wilts.Advertisements—National Training School for Cookery. 437 FISHER’S GAS STOVES FOR COOKING AT ONE-THIRD THE COST OF COAL FIRES. No. 146. Price 10s. 6d. 7 in. wide, 7^ high, 9 in. deep. Will grill a Steak, Chops, Bacon, or Fish, Toast Bread, Boil Water, Stew, or Fry with one burner ojily. 3 ft. of Gas (at a cost of less than a farthing) will grill a Chop and boil a Pint of Water. A Month’s Trial allowed. No. 148. One burner on top, 20 in. high, 12 in. wide, 9 in. deep.. 48s. No. 139. Two burners on top, 29 in. high, 15 in. wide, i2jin. deep, 75s. No. 135. Three burners on top, 36 in. high, 18 in. wide, 22 in. deep, 105s. GAS COOKING STOVE. No. 177. 16s. Two burners, 9i-in. wide, 10-in. high, 7-in. deep. The following are the results obtained by prac- tical experiments of Stove No. 135:—A joint weigh- ing gibs., a large family pie, a couple of duck-, two sorts of vegetables, fish, and soup, were all cooked at one time, in the space of two hours, con- suming about 40 ft. of gas, costing from 1 \d. to 2\d.y according to the price of gas. ‘ Chambers’ Journal, April 26, 1879. H.T. FISHER, 211, STRAND. Price Lists Post Free on application.438 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. SEVEN PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED. GOODALL’S HOUSEHOLD SPECIALITIES. A Single Trial solicited from those who have not yet tried these Splendid Preparations. GOODALL’S YORKSHIRE RELISH. The most Delicious Sauce in the World. This cheap and excellent Sauce makes the plainest viands palatable, and the dain- tiest dishes more delicious. To Chops, Steaks, Fish, &c., it is incomparable. Sold by Grocers, Oilmen, Chemists, &*c., in bottles, 6d., is., and 2s. each. GOODALL’S BAKING POWDER. The Best in the World. The cheapest because the best, and indispensable to every household, and an in- estimable boon to housewives. Makes delicious Puddings without Eggs, Pastry with- out Butter, and beautiful light Bread without Yeast. Sold by Grocers, Chemists, Oilmen, &C., in id. packets ; 6d., is., 2s., and 5s. Tins. GOODALL’S QUININE WINE. The Best, Cheapest, and most Agreeable Tonic. The best remedy known for Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, General Debility, &c., &c. Restores delicate individuals to health and vigour. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c., at is., is. i\d., 2s., and is. 3d. each bottle. GOODALL’S CUSTARD POWDER. For making Delicious Custards without Eggs, in less time and at half the price. Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings. Delicious to everything. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone. Sold in Boxes, 6d. &■= is. each, by Grocers, Chemists, Italian Warehousemen, S^c. GOODALL’S GINGER BEER POWDER. Makes Three Gallons of the best Ginger Beer in the World for 3d. The most valuable preparation for the production of a delicious and invigorating beverage. It is easily made, and acknowledged to be by far the cheapest and best Ginger Beer Powder ever offered to the Public. Sold in Packets 3d. and 6d. each, by all Grocers, Chemists, and Italian Warehousemen, &rc. Proprietors, GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., White Horse Street, Leeds. GOODALL’S BRUNSWICK BLACK. For painting Stoves! Grates, Iron, Tin, &c. This invaluable composition is superior to any yet offered to the public, possessing great brilliancy, and thoroughly protecting the articles It is applied to. Sold in Bottles at 6d. and is. each. Proprietors, GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., White Horse Street, Leeds.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 439 CAS STOVE FACTORY AND DEPOT, Where all other Makers’ Stoves may be had at 10 per Cent. FAMILY COOKING APPARATUS. For Boasting, Baking, Broiling, Toasting, Boiling, &c., separately or all at the same time. Warranted free from SMELL OH SMOKE. (Burns NINE PAETS of AIE k ONE PAET GAS). ANY OTHER FIRMS. GAS AND AIR BOILING STOVES, From 2s. NINE SIZES IN STOCK. No. 45, STAR SMOKELESS GAS BROILER. Will Cook a Steak or Chop in twelve minutes, by reflected heat, and boil on the top at the same time with 3 feet of gas. 9 in. deep, 7 in. wide, 6 in. high. With Pan and Gridiron, from 8s.; as Drawn, 15s. 6d. WARMING STOVES & ASBESTOS GAS FIRES, FOR ROOMS, HALLS, CHURCHES, &e. ILLUSTRATED LISTS EBEE. P. MICHEL, 471, New Oxford Street, London, W,C.44° Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. SPECIALITY DE CUISINE. R. TEMPLE & F. CROOK, (Late TEMPLE &. REYNOLDS), COMPLETE KITCHEN FURNISHERS AND FITTERS. GENERAL FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, COPPERSMITHS, BELLHANGERS, AND SMITHS, Gas, Water, and Steam, Fitters and Builders. REFRIGERATORS, ICE SAFES, AND ICE MACHINES. ENGLISH & FOREIGN CUTLERY, JELLY AND CAKE MOULDS, &e. Inventors of the BELGRAVE Mould and other Novelties in Kitchen requisites. F. CROOK’S ORIGINAL POULTRY APPLIANCES, Illustrated Catalogues, 52 images, Free for Four Stamps. 20, M0TC0MB STREET, BELGRAVE SQUARE, LONDON, S.W. (And late of Princes Street, Cavendish Square.) N.B.—A FREE REGISTRY for SERVANTS of HIGH CHARACTER, suitable for the Nobility and Gentry.Advertisements.—National framing School for Cookery. 441 FOR PUDDINGS. BLANC-MANGE, CUSTARDS, CHILDREN’S & INVALIDS’ DIET, AND ALL THE USES OF ARROWROOT, BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR HAS A WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION, AND IS DISTINGUISHED FOR UNIFORMLY SUPERIOR QUALITY. ARTICLES OF HOUSEHOLD USE, STRONGLY RECOMMENDED KEENS MUSTARD, Best Quality, in Square Canisters only. KEEN’S OXFORD BLUE. In Wrapped Squares. ROBINSON’S PATENT GROATS, For Gruel, &c. ROBINSON’S patent BARLEY, Barley Water, Puddings, and Blane-Mange. ROBINSON’S pure scotch OATMEAL, For Porridge and Oatcake. In One Pound Packets. Sold Everywherec442 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. NO MORE CHICORY IN YOUR COFFEE 11! Ml RU A the t>est Coffee Improver ever introduced, is the produce ITIUUnHilHi of finest ripe Figs, S f well known abroad f°r O fl P" P RT OH HI T T highly recommended many years as liflT L UL Uni! I Ly by the Faculty and Children, as COFFEE OF HEALTH. MOCHARA should be mixed 1 part with 3 or 4 pure Coffee. Sold by all Grocers and Chemists, in lib. Tins, at Is. i lb. SAMPLE TINS SENT FOE lOd., FREE BY POST. From “ The Commercial Record.” ‘‘ English people have for many years talked of and admired French Coffee as furnished by the •cafetiers or coffee-house keepers of Paris. Some persons, knowing how roasted fig, in powder, was used on the continent, christened it ‘ French Coffee.’ The present importers call it ‘ Mochara * from >the aroma which it gives to common descriptions of coffee, making them almost equal to Mocha. Even the best Mocha can be improved by a small addition of ‘ Mochara,’ without it it appears watery and wanting in colour. All coffees are improved by the addition of ‘ Mochara ; ’ it may be mixed to the extent of io or 20 per cent, without damage to the flavour of the finest coffee, indeed, greatly adding to its colour, its mellowness, and fragrance ; and when we reflect that this product costs less than half the price of coffee, we see that with cheap coffees the addition of 30 per cent, of ‘ Mochara ’ will render these inferior qualities more fragrant and more palatable, with the enormous advantage of rendering a cheap article cheaper still.” From “ The Exporter.” “ The flavour and aroma of the most superior coffee is improved by the addition of a small per- centage, while as regards inferior sorts, its use in larger proportions will be found to render them •equal or even superior to many high-priced qualities. The preparation has been pronounced by high medical authorities to be perfectly wholesome, and an efficacious remedy in cases of indigestion and costiveness. This will be at once understood when we say that Mochara is simply a product of the finest figs, roasted and powdered, the value of which is too well known in a hygienic sense to require comment, and deserves the attention of dyspeptics.” From “ The Paris Exhibition, 1878.” “ Mochara is, in short, what it professes to'be—a genuine coffee improver, and a thoroughly whole- some production, which is more than can be said of chicory. Its introduction here was for some time retarded by customs and restrictions, but these having been modified it is now being brought into public notice by the Mochara Coffee Company, whose City office is at 6oa, Watling Street. As soon -as Mochara is known widely to the public, we may expect a re-extension of the popularity of coffee.” From “ The British Mercantile Gazette.” “We have tried the Mochara, and can testify -from our personal experience as to the great improvement which it effects in its admixture with coffee. If we would have our coffee as it ought to be, we must take a lesson from the East, where it is so largely consumed, and approaches most nearly to perfection. Now the principal cause of the difference between coffee as the Orientals have it and the coffee that we are accustomed to is, that Mochara enters largely into the preparation of their •coffee, and until recently has been entirely unknown to us.” From “ The Civilian.” “ We have tasted the coffee mixture with Mochara, and can pronounce it to be excellent in flavour •and aroma.” From “ La Mode Illustree.” “Visitors to Paris and other continental cities are well aware that better coffee is easily obtained there than here in England, and it is erroneous to suppose that all the source of complaint rests with the making. ‘ Mochara,’ a new combination of highly roasted figs and other aromatic compounds, which improves the colour and flavour of coffees, is being introduced here with every sign of success, and, apart from its hygienic properties, may be mentioned as possessing every element of success. It must not be mistaken for chicory, for which it is an elegant substitute, and has not that acidity common to chicory, and the ‘ Mochara’ is an invaluable remedy for constipation.” THE MOCHARA COFFEE CO., 60a, Watling Street, London, E.C. g& MOCHARA IS WARRANTED FREE FROM CHICORY.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 443 ICE SAFES OR REFRIGERATORS. THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL, PARIS, 1878. THE NEW DUPLEX REFRIGERATOR. Registered; for Wenham Lake, or Rough Ice. Prize Medal Refrigerators, fitted with Water Tanks and Filters. The New American Double-Wall Ice Water Pitcher, suitable for Wine Cup, &c. The American Butter Dish, with re- volving lid, for use with Ice. Wenham Lake Ice delivered in town for less than id. per lb., or forwarded into the country in packages of 2s. 6d., 45-., 8j. , and upwards, by “ Goods Train,” without perceptible waste. (CE and ICE CREAMS made in three minutes by the PATENT ICE-MAKING MACHINE, which can be seen in operation daily. Illustrated Trice Lists free on application. WENHAM LAKE ICE COMPANY, 125, STRAND, LONDON (Corner of Savoy Street). NICE EASY PROCESS OF WASHING. Harper Twelvetrees’ Five-Guinea “ Villa ” Washer, WRINGER AND MANGLER, Does the Fortnight’s Family Wash in Four Hours without rubbing or boiling. It will wash fifteen dozen collars and cuffs in five minutes; 150 pocket handkerchiefs in five minutes ; sixty hotel table-cloths in an hour ; ten dozen bedroom towels per hour ; 3^ dozen shirts per hour; dozen sheets per hour ; and larger articles in proportion. Such success is unparalleled. Mrs. Robinson, Chapel House, Great Sampford, Essex, says that, with the aid of the servant, aged 14, their fortnight’s family washing, for six in family, is done in four hours. Mrs. Charles Pammont, St. Saviour’s Villa, Bury St. Edmund’s, writes that her family washing, which formerly occupied from eight a.m. till eight p.m., is now done in three hours ; and the copper fire is out five hours sooner than it used to be. A Church of England minister’s wife writes that “she saves ten shillings a fortnight by using Harper Twelvetrees’ Villa Washer, Wringer, and Mangier; and that, although she permits no rubbing, her linen is beautifully cleansed, and is much clearer than when done by hand, while the saving in mending has been astonishing.” HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS EQUALLY CONVINCING. Illustrated Prospectuses of all other kinds of Washing Machines, Clothes Wringers, and Mangles, sent post free by HARPER TWELVETREES, Laundry Engineer and Machinist, 40, FiNSBURY CIRCUS, LONDON, E.C.444 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. E. LAZENBY & SON’S PICKLES, SAUCES, AND CONDIMENTS. p. LAZENBY & SON (6 Edwards Street, Portman Square,) sole Proprietors of the celebrated receipts, and Manufacturers of the Pickles, Sauces, and Condiments so long and favourably distinguished by their name, beg to remind the public that every article prepared by them is guaranteed as entirely unadulterated. MANUFACTORY 18 TRINITY STREET, LONDON. S.E. HARVEYS SAUCE CAUTION. npHE admirers of this celebrated sauce are particularly requested to observe that each bottle prepared by E. LAZENBY & SON’ bears the Label, used so many years, signed, “ Elizabeth Lazenby.”Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 445 The Society of Arts’ Records of the GREAT STOVE AND RANGE COMPETITION AT LONDON announce SMITH & WELLSTOOD’S “MISTRESS” KITCHEN RANGE TO BE THE FIRST & BEST Over all the Prescribed Standards of efficiency upon 25 per cent. Less Fuel than all others. 204 Stoves and Ranges by all the most eminent makers under trial. COLUMBIAN STOVE WORKS, GLASGOW. The largest in the World, solely devoted to the manufacture of American Stoves. London Warehouse and Show Eooms: 2, LUDGATE CIRCUS, E.C. FOOT OF LUDGATE HILL. The “Mistress” Kitchener made in twelve different sizes and capacities, easily shipped by rail or steamer, and ready for immediate use in any position, without setting. These Kitcheners are in regular use in the National Training School at South Kensing- ton, and other local schools, and Mrs. Clarke, the Superintendent of the National School, in her annual report, in speaking of the smaller sizes of Smith & Wellstood’s Stoves, says, “ It is much to be desired that the people could be induced to take to these Stoves, in preference to the miserable little grates generally found in their homes.” ESTABLISHED 1760. HERBERT & SONS, SCALE, WEIGHT, AND WEIGHING MACHINE MANUFACTURERS. WEIGHING MACHINES, FOR FAMILY & KITCHEN USE, PRICE ;— To weigh 7 lbs. 14 lb. 28 lbs. ISs. 20s. 26s. “ SMITHFIELD” SALTING MACHINES, FOR INSTANTLY SALTING BEEF, PORK, TONGUES, &c. PRICE 21s., 35s., 50s. SONS, 6 & 7, WEST SMITHFIELD, E.O., LONDON.446 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. THE FINEST TEA THE WORLD PRODUCES. Cooper Cooper & Co. undertake to answer the oft-heard question, “ Why is tea so deart” and they say that it is simply because the public in this, as in other matters, are powerless to insist on having their share of the advantages which result from falling markets. Tea, in fact, was never so cheap to buy since it was first imported into England, as may be easily ascertained by a reference to the current market reports, and yet relatively the retail price was never so exorbitant. Now Cooper Cooper & Co. have resolved to rectify this discrepancy, and to this end they undertake to sell the best teas that can be purchased at their respective prices at a small commission only on the actual prices paid to the importers. This system of business is specially intended to bring the public into partnership, as it were, or at all events to enable them to become participators in the great margin of profit which lies between the wholesale and retail price of tea. Cooper Cooper & Cods prices will be found to be ninepence per pound less money than those usually charged for identical qualities, while their highest class first crop teas at 3s. a pound are of a quality that is very rarely to be obtained at any price whatever. SELECTED FROM THE LIST OF CHOICE BLACK TEAS. 1. The finest Lapsang Souchong, 3^. a lb. This tea is exquisitely delicate in flavour, silky on the palate, and one of the finest teas ever imported into England. 2. The finest Moning Congou, 3s. a lb., is soft, silky, delicately flavoured tea, and drinks full and round on the palate. 3. The finest Kyshow Congou (the Prince of Teas), 3^. a lb., is a brisk, pungent, deliciously flavoured tea, of amazing strength, beautifully manipulated—full of flower ; to taste this tea in perfection it should be drunk without cream or milk, as these to a great extent hide the pungent, malty flavour which is so grateful to the palate. 4. The finest Assam Congou, 3^. a lb. This is a very strong tea, of Indian growth, draws a deep red liquor, is very pungent, a little coarse, but drinks full in the mouth. It is quite a distinct class of tea, rather peculiar, and not appreciated by all —in fact, to like it requires an acquired taste. UNNUMBERED TEAS. In Slate-tinted Bags.—Choice Moning Congou, 2s. 6d. a lb. This is the best of the second crop, and possesses great strength and good flavour, and will be found always good alike. In White Bags.—Marvellously good Black Tea, 2s. a lb. This Tea will be found perfectly pure, of fair strength and attractive flavour. Cooper Cooper & Co.’s Prices are for nett Cash only, without Discount. COOPER COOPER & CO., (EXCLUSIVE TEAMEN), 50, King William Street, London Bridge; 63, Bishopsgate Street Within, E.C.; 268, Regent Circus, W.; and 35, Strand, W.C. (near Charing Cross).Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 447 GEO. KENT, 199, HIGH HOLBORH. LIST OF CO OFF BY BFQUISITFS. '[/"ENT’S Mincing Machines, ns. 6d. to sor. Adapted j JV for mincing Fruits, Meats, Suet, Mincemeat, &c. [ TT"ENT’S New Patent Marmalade Cutter. Made ex- -IV pressly for cutting Marmalade, Fruits, and Vege- table Substances, for family use. "[/"ENT’S Saw Back Kitchen Knives, is. 6d., 2s. 6d ancf JV 3V. 6d. Saw bones and save Superior Knives from rough use. TRENT’S Triturating Strainer, 27s. 6d to 37s. 6d. Re- JV duces to pulp, or liquid, and strains every descrip- tion of Animal and Vegetable Substance. XfENT’S Jelly Strainer, 12s. 6d. Jelly Blancmange, JV &c., rapidly strained and kept in a thin liquid state, free from dust. ■[/■ENT’S Eccentric Masher, 9d. For Mashing Potatoes,. IV Turnips, &c. "[/■ENT’S Brawn Mould, 7s. 6d. Tongues, &c., pressed1 -IV by regulating Screw. T/’ENT’S Vegetable Cutter, 30J. French Beans and -IV other Vegetables cut into strips instantaneously. ■(/■ENT'S Whisks and Mixing Machines, 2is. to iioj. Ji. These Machines produce from a given quantity of ingredients a larger and better batter in one-fourth the time than any other process. XT’ENT’S Egg Beater, 3 s. 6d. and 5-r. Egg Mixtures, JV Batters, and other ingredients for Cakes, Omelets, Salads, Sauces, &c., mixed in a few seconds by this little machine. T/"ENT’S Bread Makers. Puddings, Pastry, and Cakes- -IV this machine mixes and kneads in a few minutes. TRENT’S Bread Cutter, 16s. to 46V. Slices of bread JV gauged to any thickness ; time and labour saved y. waste prevented. TRENT’S Potato Masher and Bread Grater, 12s. 6d.. -IV Potatoes, by a few turns of the handle, mashed to Perfection ; Bread Grated with equal rapidity, TRENT’S Cocoa Mill, 12s. 6d. Reduces to powder in- JV stantly Cocoa-berries, and affords the means of en- suring a cup of that nutritious beverage as readily as a cup of coffee. TRENT’S Revolving Toasters, 25s. Bacon, Chops, JV Steaks, &c., cooked to perfection. ■[/■ENT’S Butter Press, 10s. 6d. Salt and Rancid JV Butter greatly purified. Also valuable as a Fruit Press. -[/■ENT’S Bane Crushers, 21 s. Small Poultry, Game- -IV and other bones broken up for Soup, &c. J^ENT’S Improved Coffee Mills, 6s. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Self-Acting Coffee Roaster, 21 s. This Ma- -IV chine may be used at the kitchen or parlour grate- The Coffee is all roasted alike, none burnt or overdone; None left raw or partly done. ■[/■ENT’S Apple Parer, 8s. od. This Wonderful Ma- JV chine Pares, Cores, and Slices Apples instanta- neously. gENT’S Chestnut Roasters, 7s. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Lemon and Orange Parers, 8s. 6d. Similar to above. gENT’S Rotary Slicers, 3*. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Milk Saver, is. Prevents Milk boiling over JV or burning. ■gENT’S Improved Lemon Squeezers, is. ■(/"ENTS Champagne Frappe Machine. From 30s. To -IV be used with rough Ice and Salt or Freezing Mixture. ■gENT’S Improved Rolling Pins, is. 3d. [/■ENT’S Ice Maker, £5, £12 12s., £16 16s., £35, £60, -IV and ■[/■ENT’S Rotary Ice Cream Freezers. From 32s. For -IV making Ice, Ice Creams, Water Ices, or cooling Wine. ■[/■ENT’S Six Minute Churns, ior. 6d. to 27s. 6d. The- Churn will make Butter lrom Milk in six minutes, and from Cream in about half that time, extracting every atom of Butter which the Cream or milk contains. ■[/■ENT’S Wood Box Chums, 25s. to 50J. All Sizes kept -IV in Stock. ■RENT'S New Miniature Ice Pail, 12J. 6d. TRENT’S Ice Pails, from one quart to 18 quarts. Also •IV Moulds of various Patterns. TRENT’S Patent Ventilated Ice Safes produce results JV hitherto considered unattainable. Fish, Meat, Poultry, Game, Venison, Fruit, Milk, Butter, &c., kept- sweet, flavour retained, condition improved. Price family size, to £30. ■[/■ENT’S Invalid’s Refrigerator, 95J. A Small Port- ■IV able Cabinet, with Ice Compartment, Water Tank, and Provision Chamber, for Preserving Invalid’s Food and Liquids free from taint, &c. ■[/■ENT’S Ordinary Refrigerator, for preserving Ice ancil JV cooling Wine, &c. Price from .£3 3s. TT’ENT’S Freezing Mixture. And every article con- -IV nected with cooling and freezing, combining all the real improvements of recent date. ■[/■ENT’S Oyster Opener, 15^. Any inexperienced person -IV can open any description of oyster without cutting the fish or breaking the shell, yet retaining all the juice and freshness of the fish. 15 INTERNATIONAL PRIZE MEDALS. The very large number of Kent’s Knife Cleaning Machines and other domestic Labour-saving Appliances of Kent’s sold for use, not only in public establishments, but also in very small private families, goes to prove that they are deemed indispensable to complete the arrangements for the comfort and economy of every well-appointed house- Yet for the convenience of parties who may wish to inquire of those who have had Kent’s Machines very long in con- stant daily use, G. Kent has permission of reference to nearly every Club, Hotel, and Restaurant in London and the Provinces, and also those on the Continent. KNIFE-CLEANING MACHINES.—THE REAL AND THE IMITATION. Purchasers of Knife Cleaners are told by those who (on account of larger profits) are interested in the sale of machines made in imitation of Kent’s, that they are identically the same, Kent’s patent having expired, and thus truth is employed to aid misrepresentation; the fact being that two old patents did expire some years since, but Kent’s Improved Knife Cleaners, made in nine different sizes, from £2 2a. to £14 14s., are protected by two existing Patents, and any infringement would subject the persons to proceedings in Chancery. Kent’s Original Knife Cleaners, are however, still supplied, and to meet the convenience of those with whom price is an important consideration, Kent’s Original Knife Cleaners, made in nine different sizes, from £1 12s. to £10 10s., are quite as low in price as are the imitations, and are greatly superior to them in efficiency and durability. Anyone not able to obtain these machines of their ironmongers, should communicate to GEO. KENT, Manufacturer of Domestic Labour-saving Appliances, 190, 199, 200, 201, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.448 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. nothing Looks worse than a Dirty or Broken-Backed Dinner Knife. ALL who take a pride in the perfectness of their table ** appointments will appreciate the beautiful effect of CUTLERY REGULARLY CLEANED BY THE “ LADY KNIFE (Oowdery’s Which is rapidly taking its place as the most valuable household implement for the purpose. It cleans the back, shoulders, and every part of the blade with a brilliant, silvery polish, and without the least perceptible wear. It prevents damage to the handle, however delicate, and makes Cutlery always look new, and last at least twice as long as by any other means of cleaning. Carving Forks are cleaned by this Machine in every part as easily as knives. Servants quickly take to its use and always speak well of it. Simple, cleanly, economical, efficient, and durable. PRICE 28s. Its compactness specially fits it for small Kitchens and Yachts. TESTIMONIAL. St. James’s Hall Restaurant, 69 & 71, Regent Street, 24, 25, 26 & 28, Piccadilly, Messrs. R. Hodd & Son, London, 21 st August, 1879. 30 & 31, Hatton Garden, E.C. Gentlemen,—We have much pleasure in testifying to the merits of your “Lady Help” Patent Knife Cleaner. At the Royal Agricultural Show held this year at Kilburn, upwards of 20,000 •of our knives were cleaned by your process without the slightest injury to any one of them. We are. Gentlemen, yours obediently, H. J. & W. J. ROBERTS, Refreshment Contractors by Appointment to the Members and Council of the Royal Agricultural Society, 1879. R. HODD & SON, 30 & 31, Hatton Garden, London, E.C,Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 449 EVERY FAMILY SHOULD USE DISINFECTING CLEANSING POWDER By Appointment to the Royal Army and Navy, and various Government Departments; Hospitals, Asylums, Unions, &c. For scrubbing, cleansing, whitening and purifying floors, and destroying fleas, &c. The boards dry rapidly, thus obviating any injury from damp, while the surface looks equal to new, and bears a whole- some fragrance of a healthy atmosphere. Glass Chandeliers, Glass, inside of Saucepans, dishes and other utensils, are quickly rendered bright and pure. It is also a powerful preventive against fever and other contagious diseases, while it will effectually remove grease and cleanse paint and marble. NO SOAP OR SODA REQUIRED. UNDER DISTINGUISHED MEDICAL PATRONAGE. Sold in Penny Packets, and in Casks, 30^. per cwt. FOR LACE, MUSLIN, LINEN, &c. The ORIGINAL RECIPE from HELEEN HENDRIK, of HOLLAND, Where cleanliness and whiteness of linen are proverbial. IT IS NOT DESTRUCTIVE TO LINEN, LIKE MANY OTHER POWDERS. Sold in Penny Packets, and in Casks, 24s. per cwt. SMITH’S ■ ■ ■ . ■ ■ DEODORISING POWDER (THE ORIGINAL PINK CARBOLIC POWDER) For Disinfecting Stables, Cowsheds, Drains, and for Domestic use. Used in the Royal Castle, Windsor. Is the cheapest and most efficacious remedy in removing smells and preventing disease. Is much cheaper and more effective than chloride of lime. Sold in 3d., 6dand is. Tins, and in Cash, 13s. per cwt. Manufactory—HAMPTON CHEMICAL WORKS, BOROUGH ROAD, LONDON ; And 13, CANNING PLACE, LIVERPOOL. F F450 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. BATTY & CO. (Established upwards of Half a Century)9 FINSBURY, LONDON. SIX PRIZE MEDALS from Exhibitions of London, 1851 and 1862, Paris, 1867 and 1878, Vienna, and Amsterdam. PICKLES in the Pure Malt Vinegar made by Slee, Slee, & Co., London, and which has been used by Batty & Co. for more than 40 years. ANCHOVY SAUCE for Fish. NABOB PICKLES —Delicious and Enjoyable. NABOB SAUCE —Rich and Relishing. DR. KITCHENER’S SALAD CREAM. ORANGE MARMALADE, JAMS, AND JELLIES.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 451 MAUGHAN EXHIBITS THE LATEST AND BEST INVENTIONS IN HOT WATER AND GAS; ALSO HIS PATENT “GEYSER,” THE INSTANTANEOUS WATER HEATER, FOR BATHS, LAVATORIES, AND GENERAL PURPOSES, AT 41, CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C., AND AT THE GEYSER FACTORY, CAMBRIDGE HEATH, LONDON, E. (1Opposite the Railway Station.) PROSPECTUSES ON APPLICATION. Skilled Workmen sent to all parts of the Country. ROYAL CONFECTIONER. By C. E. Francatelli. English and Foreign. A Practical Treatise. With Coloured Illustrations. 3rd Edition. Post 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. HOME LIFE. A Handbook and Elementary Instruction, contain- ing Practical Suggestions addressed to Managers and Teachers of Schools, intended to show how the underlying principles of Home Duties or Domestic Economy may be the basis of National Primary Instruction. Crown 8vo. %s. HOUSEHOLD ORGANIZATION. By Mrs. Caddy. Crown 8vo, 43-. FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents, and Uses of Food; intended chiefly as a Guide to the Food Collection in the Bethnal Green Museum. By A. H. Church, M.A., Oxon. Large crown 8vo, 3^. PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER By A. H. Church, M.A., Oxon. Large crown 8vo. Sewed, 6d. AUSTRALIAN MEAT: RECEIPTS FOR COOKING AUSTRALIAN MEAT, with Directions for Preparing Sauces suitable for the same. By a Cook. i2mo, sewed, 9d. APMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.432 Advertisements.— National Training School for Cookery. 'T'HE PRACTICAL AND PROPER WAY OF MAKING GOOD COFFEE has been often and variously discussed by a number of writers (amateurs and others), conclusively and finally by the Firm of J. PICARD & CO., 140, Strand, SPECIALISTS IN Coffee, Coffee and Tea Making Apparatus, Coffee Roasters—in fact} every article applying to this branch exclusively. Many years of constant practice and experience have gained them hundreds of Public and Private Testimonials, Gold Medals, and other Awards in Great Britain. On their Premises a large assortment of COFFEE and TEA MAKING MACHINES is in per- manent view; the Machines can be tested at a minute’s notice. Coffee is roasted daily, and the way of preparing the same demon- strated. There are also kept Coffee and Tea Making Apparatus for Table, Kitchen, or Stillroom use, to make from 1 to 1,000 cups, by either Gas, Coals, or Spirit Stoves. They are simple, automatic, warranted inexplosible and more economical than any others. PICARD & CO.’S SELF-ACTING CIRCULATING COFFEE-TEA APPARATUS. The finest growths of Coffee, - raw or fresh roasted, are for- warded by command, or can be tasted on the premises. Terms and. Prices by application. Cheques crossed COTTTTS & CO. P. O. O. payable Somerset House.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 453 CHOCOLAT MENIER Defies all Honest Competition. AWARDED GOLD MEDAL at the PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. OBSERVE TRADE MARES AND REAL NAME. FOR BREAKFAST—CHOCOLAT-MENIER. AWARDED TWENTY-THREE PRIZE MEDALS. ANNUAL CONSUMPTION EXCEEDS— 17,000,000 lbs. CHOCOLAT-MENIER FOR LUNCHEON. AWARDED MEDAL AT THE VIENNA EXHIBITION. MENiER’S ESSENCE OF COCOA. Sold in \ lb. and i lb. Lins, 2s. per lb. AWARDED GRAND DIPLOMA AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878. MENIER’S CHOCOLAT-POWDER. PLAIN AND MANILLA FLAVOUR. Sold in | lb. and I lb. Tins. AWARDED HIGHEST PRIZE at the PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878. BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. OBSERVE TRADE MARKS AND REAL NAME. SOLD EVERYWHERE. PARIS, LONDON, NEW YORK.454 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. H.R.H, Prince of Wales, 73* H. S. H. Duke of Teck, E. K. WILSON, Nos. 13 4 38, SUSSEX PLACE, ONSLOW BAEDENS, appointment tn % Rational draining Sfofpd of (ftookerg, MAKER OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF COOKING AND HEATING APPARATUS, Begs to call attention to the following Specialities:— “THE KENSINGTON RANGE.” This Range has an open fire for roasting, a wrought-iron oven, with a flue circulating all round, making the oven of an equal heat in every part; the top of oven forms a hot plate, on which vessels can be kept stewing ; the same fire also heats two boilers, the one for supplying hot water in any part of the house, and the other for supplying hot water or steam in the kitchen. The patterns are so arranged that the proportions of oven or fire or boiler room can be varied to suit the requirements of the establishment. The Prices of these Ranges are—3 ft. 6 in. £13 lOs.; 4 ft. ,£14 15s.; 4 ft. 6 in. £15 15s.; 5 ft. £16 10s. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast-iron Boiler, and One Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, as described. E. K. WILSON’S “KENSINGTON KITCHENER.” This close fire Range is believed to be as perfect as can be produced, and is the result of many years of experience and attention. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast Boiler and Covings, and Plate Rack. The prices are as follows:—3 ft. 6in. £10 18s. Gd. ; 4ft. £12 5s.; 4ft. 6in. £14 5s.; 5 ft. £1512s. 6d. I; If fitted with Extra Wrought-iron high-pressure Boiler, £2 10s. extra. If fitted with Two Ovens, one for pastry and one for meat, and One Wrought-iron high-pressure Boiler, 4 ft. £18 10s.; 4 ft. 6 in. £20 18s. 6d.; 5 ft. £22 10s.; 5 ft. 6 in. £24 10s. E. K. Wilson has paid great attention to the making of Stoves for Cooking by Gas, since the introduction of the Bunsen principle of diluting gas with air; the great cleanliness and economy secured by a properly balanced burner, made on this principle, renders gas a most valuable agent for many culinary purposes. THE STUDENTS’ GAS STOVE Is made in several sizes, and is fitted with a Roaster, an Oven for Baking, and Ring Burners on the top for Stewing. The Prices are as follows :—No. 1, £2 8s.; No. 2, £3 10s. ; No. 3, £5 5s. GAS STEWING PLATES are a most valuable addition to any Kitchen, and are made in every variety of size, with Atmospheric Ring Burners, from 15s. upwards. The fault found with all Ovens of Gas Stoves has been, that although they cooked the pie or pastry, they could not be made to brown the crust. After consultation with the Lady Superintendent at the National Training School, E. K. W. has introduced an Additional Burner, which browns the pastry most successfully. NOTE.—E. K. WILSON waits upon intending Purchasers to advise as to the best kinds of COOKING APPARATUS for their purpose, free of charge, in any part of London, or if in the Country, at the cost of second class railway fare.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 455 THE FOLLOWING IS A MOST COMPLETE AND ECONOMICAL ESTIMATE OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A KITCHEN. {. s. d. 4 Iron Saucepans o 9 8 1 Potatoe Steamer o 2 9 1 Enamelled Saucepan o 2 3 1 Soup Digester, 6s. ; 1 Oval Boiling Pot, 8.y. 6d. o 14 6 1 Brass Bottle Jack o 10 6 1 Jack Screen, 155-. 6d. ; 1 Basting Ladle, is. 4d. o 16 10 1 Improved Weighing Machine and Weights, 71b. down to J oz o 17 6 1 Wrought-iron Tea Kettle o 4 o x Kitchen Fender, 8j. 6d. ; and Set of Fire Irons, 5s. 6d. o 14 o 1 Coal Scuttle, 3$. 6d. ; 1 Hand Shovel, is o 4 6 J Dozen Table Knives and Forks, at 10s. 6d. o s 3 2 Cooks’-Knives (French), is. 6d. and is. 6d. o 4 o 1 Vegetable Knife o 1 3 1 Dishing<up Fork ... 019 1 Kitchen Steel o 1 6 6 Wood Spoons o on 3 Iron Spoons o o 10J 1 Larding Needle, 7d. ; 1 Trussing Needle, 6d. o 1 1 1 Flour Dredger, 10d. ; 1 Sugar Dred- ger, is. 2d. o 2 o 1 Mould for Apple Charlotte o 1 3 1 Mould for Jellies, 2s. 6d. ; 1 Tin Colander, is. 6d. o 4 o 1 Gravy Strainer o 1 3 1 Fish Kettle o 6 9 1 Paste Board, 3s. gd.; 1 Rolling Pin, 6d. 043 1 Paste Brush o 1 o 1 Chopping Board o 2 o 1 Marble Mortar, 8s. 3d. ; 1 Lignum- Vitse Pestle, 2s. gd. on o 1 Slice, i$. ; 1 Egg Slice, 10d. o 1 10 1 Baking Sheet, with Turned Ends.... o 1 6 2 Round Cake Tins o 1 2 1 Gridiron o 1 6 1 York Pudding Tin o o 8 6 Patty Pans, 6d. ; 2 Open Tart Tins, is. 4d. o 1 10 2 Frying Pans, iod., 2s o 2 10 1 Set of Steel Skewers, is. ; 1 Paste Jagger, is o 2 o 1 Coffee Pot o 19 1 Bread Grater o o 8 1 Box of Paste Cutters o 3 o 2 Tin Funnels o o 7 1 Mincing Knife o 1 6 1 Meat Saw, 2s. 6d.; 1 Meat Cleaver, 2s. 10 d. o 5 4 1 Egg Whisk o o 9 1 Seasoning Box o 5 o 4 Tin Measures, J pint, \ pint, t pint, and 1 quart o 2 11 1 Frying Basket o 2 9 1 French Stewpan for ditto o 2 3 1 Corkscrew o o 8 1 Japanned Spice Box o 2 9 1 Canister for Tea, is. ; 1 ditto for Coffee, is o 2 o 1 Tin Water Can, 4s. 3d. ; 1 Tin Dust Pan, is o 5 3 1 Hand Bowl, 2s. 3d. ; Toastfork, is... o 3 3 1 Galvanized Pail o 1 6 2 Galvanized Tubs for Sinks, 2s. 6d., 3s. 3d. o s 9 1 Flour Tub o 3 o 1 Salt Box, 2s. 3d.; 1 Wire Sieve, 2s. gd. 050 1 Hair Sieve, is. ; 1 Tammy Cloth, 2s. 6d. o 3 6 1 Patent Felt Jelly Bag 030 2 Scrubbing Brushes, gd., is. gd. .... o 2 6 3 Black Lead Brushes o 3 3 1 Sweep’s Brush o o 9 1 Flue Brush o 1 6 1 Hair Broom o 2 9 1 Knife Board o 1 9 1 Wood Soap Box o o 6 1 Mustard Pot o 1 6 1 Pepper Box ' o o 6 1 Salt Cellar o o 9 1 Japanned Teatray o 4 2 1 Meringue Bag with Funnel o 1 3 1 Sieve for Whitebait o 2 3 1 Wrought-iron Salamander o 5 6 1 Coffee Mill o 3 6 1 Box of French Vegetable Cutters .. 033 1 Pair of Steak Tongs o 1 9 \ Dozen Quenelle Shells o 1 3 1 Set of 3 Pot Triangles o 2 3 1 Pair Wash Leather Gloves o 010 1 Chamois Leather o 1 o 1 Carving Knife and Fork o 4 o £13 8 io| TESTIMONIAL Prom the late Lady-Superintendent of the National Training1 School for Cookery. 22, Thurloe Square, “Mr. Wilson. > # "June 5,1875. “ I am glad to he able to say in this manner how thoroughly satisfied I am with all the work you have done for us at the National School of Cookery since it opened. Not only have your Gas Stoves and the various contrivances for hot water, &c., which you have put in for us from time to time answered admirably, but we find that your Kitchen Utensils wear very well indeed. “ In the many enquiries for Ranges, &c., I have always mentioned your name, and in every instance I have heard with pleasure how satisfied the customers thus sent have been, and what credit you have done to my recommendation. “With sincere good'wishes, I remain yours, M. A. BARKER, “Lady-Superintendent National Training School of Cookery, Exhibition Road, Y. IV.” Branch Schools and Students supplied on the same terms as National Training School.456 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. WILSON & BLESSLEY, 1, PAUL STREET, FINSBURY, LONDON, E.C, MANUFACTURERS OF COOKING UTENSILS IN COPPER, WROUGHT IRON, AND BLOCK TIN, For the School of Cookery, Hotels, Coffee Taverns, and Restaurants. SOUTHBY’S PATENT CAS COOKING STOVE, THE MOST ECONOMICAL GAS STOVE YET INVENTED. Free from Smell or Smoke. A Dinner can be cooked to perfection for a halfpenny, with less waste than by any means yet known. No. 9 STOVE. No. 10 STOVE. No. 11 STOVE. For 7 lb. Joint and 3 Saucepans. For 141b. Joint and 4 Saucepans. For 241b. Joint and 6 Saucepans. Length, 18 in. ^ Length, 24 in. 'I Length, 30 in. 'I Height, 11 in. >30s. Height, 13 m. >-45$. Height, 15 in. >63.?. Width, 12 in. ) Width, 14 in. j Width, 17 in. ) Consumption of Gas for No. 9, 5 feet; No. 10, 7^ feet; No. 11, 10 feet per Hour. Special Tin Cooking Utensils made for the Stoves as shown above. Seamless Flat Bottom Kettles .... | 4 pt. 5s. | 6 pt. 6s. | 8 pt. s. | 10 pt. s. | 12 pt. s. j 14 pt. s. Stamped Stewpans and Covers .... | ^ 2d 1 pt. Is. 3d. 7 pt. 3s. 3d. 2 pt. Is. 6d. 11 pt. 4s. 6d. 3 pt. Is. 10d. 18 pt. 6s. Stamped Sausage Cookers, oblong . | 12 m. Is. 2d. | 14 in . Is. 6d. | 16 in. Is. 10 d. Stamped Oval Omelette Pans | 11 in. Is. 2d. \ i2jin. Is. id. | 14 in. ls.ld. Southby Restaurant Ranges, fitted with Hot Water Cistern suitable for Large Establishments, £9 6s. No. 10. Coffee Urns, Block Tin, Brass Hoops, fitted with Earthenware Jar, mounted on Fancy Stand .. to hold 1 gal. 30s. 9d. 2 gal. 47s. 3 gal. 52s. 6d. No. 11. Coffee Urns, Copper Body and Stand, ! ware Jar Earthen- to hold 1 gal. 60s. 2 gal. 75s. 3sS!' Illustrated Catalogues and Terms on application.Advertisements.—National Trtdning School for Cookery. 457 G GAA dvertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. CROSSE & BLACKWELL’S IALT YIIEGAE, PURE PICKLES, SAUCES, POTTED MEATS & FISH, PREPARED SOUPS, CALVES’ FEET JELLY, JAMS, & ORANGE MARMALADE, Always bear their Names and Address on the Labels, And may be obtained of Grocers and Italian Warehousemen throughout the World. CROSSE & BLACKWELL WERE AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. IMPORTANT CAUTION. The MACASSAR OIL for the Hair, ODONTO for the Teeth, and KALYDOR for the Face. Manufactured by A. ROWLAND & SONS, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, for the last 80 years, and bearing their signature in red ink on the wrapper, are the only genuine articles sold under these or any SIMILAR names: therefore, do not be persuaded to buy worthless imitations of Rowland’s. Macassar Oil, Kalydor or Odonto, however cheap. ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL Prevents the hair falling off, and eradicates scurf and dandrifif. Sizes, 3s. 6d., 7s.y ioj-. 6d., family bottles, equal to four small, and 21 s. Is a new and fragrant Toilet Powder, specially recommended to ladies. Size, 2s. 6d per box ; or double that size with Puff, 4s. Whitens the Teeth and prevents and arrests their decay. 2s. gd. per box. Eradicates Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, and Cutaneous Eruptions, and produces a beautiful and healthy complexion. During hot weather it has a most cooling and refreshing effect on the face and hands. 4L 6d. and 8s. 6d. per bottle. Aslc any Chemist, Perfumer, or Hairdresser for ItOWPAND’S Articles, and avoid cheap imitations \mder the same or similar names.