l9& Of Soups. with a bunch of fweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanched and beat fine. Pour on it four quarts of boiling water; let it dand all night by the fire, covered clofe. The next day put it into a well-tinned fauce- pan,. and let it bod (lowly till it is reduced to two quarts. Be fure you take the fcum and fat off as it rifes, all the time it is boiling. Strain it into a punch-bowl, let it fettle for two hours, pour it into a clean fauce-pan, clear from the fediments, if any, at the bottom. Have ready three ounces of rice, boiled in wa- ter. If you like vermicelli better, boil two ounces. When enough, put it in, and ferve it up. Green Peas Soup. Cut a knuckle of veal, and one pound of lean ham into thin dices ; lay the ham at the bottom of a foup-pot, the veal upon the ham; then cut fix onions in dices, and put on two or three turnips, two carrots, three heads of celery cut fmall, a little thyme, four cloves, and four blades of mace. Put a little water at the bottom, cover the pot clofe, and draw it gently, but do not let it (tick ; then put in fix quarts of boiling water, let it dew gently for four hours, and (kim it well. Take two quarts of green peas, and (lew them in fome of the broth till tender; then (train them off, and put them in a marble mortar, and beat them fine. Put the liquor in and mix them up, (if you have no mortar, you mud bruife them in the bed manner you can). Take a tammy, or fine cloth, and rub them through till you have rubbed all the pulp out, and then put your foup into a clean pot, with half a pint of fpinach juice, and boil it up for fifteen minutes. Seafon with fad and a little pepper. If your foup is not thick enough, take the crumb of a French roll, and boil it in a little of the foup, beat it in the mortar, and rub it through your tammy or cloth ; then put in your foup and boil it up. Then put it in your tureen, with dice of bread toaded very hard. GlaJJ'e, 129. Another way. Provide a peck of peas, died them, and boil them in fpring- water till they are foft; then work them through a hair fieve ; take the water that your peas were boiled in, and put in a knuckle of veal, three dices of ham, and cut two carrots, a turnip, and a few beet-leaves, (bred fmall; add a little more wa- ter to the meat, fet it over the fire, and let it boil one hour and a half; then drain the gravy into a bowl, and mix it with the pulp, and put id a little juice of fpinach, which mud be beat and fqucezed through a cloth ; put in as much as will make it look