25z Elegant fmall Savoury Difhes others prefer an onion chopped very fine, and ftewed with them, with two or three ralhers of lean ham. GlaJJ'e, 116. Another zvay. Boil and drain the peas, flice and fry the lettuce; put them into fome good gravy ; fhake in a little flour ; add chyan and fait, and a very little lhred mint, boil this up, fhaking it. Another zvay. Having (helled your peas, boil them in hard water, with fait in it, drain them in a fieve ; then flice your lettuces and fry them in frefh butter ; put your peas and lettuces into a tolling-pan, with a little good gravy, pepper, and fait; thicken it with flour and butter, put in a little Aired mint, and ferve it up in a foup- dilh. Raff aid, 289. To rag00 Afparagus. Scrape and clean one hundred grafs, and throw them in cold water ; then cut as far as they are good and green, and take two heads of endive, clean picked and wafhed, and cut very fmall, a young lettuce, clean wafhed and cut fmall, and a large onion peeled and cut fmall. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a (lew-pan, and when it is melted, throw in the above ingredients. Tofs them about, and fry them ten minutes ; then feafon them with a little pepper and fait, fhake in a little flour, tofs them about, and pour in half a pint of gravy. Let them flew till the fauce is very thick and good, and then pour all into your difli. Garnifh with a few of the little tops of the grafs. Farley, 80. Afparagus and Eggs. Toaft a piece of bread as large as you have occafion for, butter it, and lay it in your difli; butter fome eggs and lay over it. In the mean time, boil fome grafs tender, cut it fmall, and lay it over the eggs. N. B. The eggs are buttered thus:—take as many as you want, beat them well, put them into a fauce^pan with a good piece of butter, a little fait; keep beating them with a fboon till they are thick enough, then pour them on the toaft. yin Amulet of Afparagus. ‘ Beat up-fix eggs with cream, boil fome fine afparagus, and when boiled, cut off all the green in fmall pieces ; mix them with the eggs, and add pepper and fait. Make your pot hot, and put in a flice of butter; then put them in, and fend them up hot. They may be ferved on buttered toafts. To make an Amulet. Beat fix eggs, drain them through a hair fieve, and put them *■ into