The Family Phyfician* 4i7 prudent life of it, than from any bad qualities in the tea itfelf. Tea is now the univerfal breakfaft in this part of the world ; but the morning is furely the mod: improper time of the day fof' drinking it. Mod; delicate perfons, who, by the bye, are the greated tea-drinkers, cannot eat any thing in the morning. If fuch perfons, after falling ten or twelve hours, drink four or five cups of tea, without eating almod any bread, it mud; hurt them. Good tea, taken in moderate quantity, not too flrong, nor too hot, nor drank upon an empty Itomach, will feldom do harm ; but if it be bad, which is often the cafe, or fubdituted in the room of folid food, it mud; have many ill effe&s. The liquid part of our aliment likewile claims our attention. Water is not only the bads of mod liquors, but alfo compofes a great part of our folid food. Good water mud therefore be of the greated importance in diet. The bed water is that which is mod pure, and free from any mixture of foreign bodies. The common methods of rendering water pure by filtration, or foft by expofing it to the fun and air, &c. are fo generally known, that it is unneceffary to expend time in explaining them, I lhall only, in general, advife all to avoid waters which dag- nate long in fmall ponds, or the like, as fuch waters often be- come putrid by the corruption of animal and vegetable bodies with which they abound. Even cattle frequently differ by drink- ing, in dry feafons, water which has dood long in lmall refer- voirs, without being fupplied by fprings, or frediened with fhowers. All wells ought to be kept clean, and to have a free communication with the air. As fermented liquors, notwithdanding they have been ex- claimed againd by many writers, dill continue to be the com- mon drink of almod every perfon who can afford them, I lhall rather endeavour to affiff people in the choice of thefe liquors, than pretend to condemn what cudom has fo firmly edablilhed. It is not the moderate ufe of found fermented liquors which hurts mankind: it is excels, or ufing fuch as are ill prepared, j or vitiated. All families who can, ought to prepare their own liquors. Since preparing and vending of liquors became one of the mod general branches of budnefs, every method has been tried' to adulterate them. The great objeft, both to the makers and [venders of liquors, is to render it intoxicating. But it is welt known that this may be done by other ingredients than thofe which ought to be afed for making it drong. It would be im- prudent even to name thofe things which are daily made ufe of E e t,o