Made Dijhes of Veal. 86 mufhrooms; fry the cutlets in melted butter of a fine brown ; then lay them in a hot difh, and pour the ragoo boiling hot over them. A favoury difh of Veal. Having roafted a fine loin of veal, take it up, and carefully take the fkin off the back part without breaking it. Cut out all the lean meat, but leave the ends whole, to hold the following mince-meat:—mix all the meat very fine with the kidney part, put it into a little veal gravy, enough to moiden it with the gravy that comes from the loin. Put in a little pepper and fait, fomc lemon-peel fhred fine, the yolks of three eggs, and a fpoonful of catchup. Thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour; give it a fhake or two over the fire, and put it into the loin, and then pull the fkin over. If the (kin fhould not quite cover it, give it a brown with a hot iron, or put it in an oven for fifteen mi- nutes. Send it up hot, and garnifh with barberries and lemon, Farley, 106. . Calf’s Brains fried. Cut the brains in four pieces, braze them about half an hour in broth and white wine, tw'o flices of lemon, pepper and fait, thyme, laurel, cloves, parfley, and fhallots ; then drain and foak them in batter made of white wine, a little oil, and a little fait, and fry them of a fine colour ; you may likewife bade them with eggs and bread-crumbs. Garnifh with fried parfley. Dai- ry triple, 83. Calf’s Brains with rice. The brains of two heads are enough for a good difh ; blanch them, and take off the little bloody fibres, cut into two pieces each, and foak them in a marinade of white wine and vinegar. See. for an hour ; boil your rice in wrater a few minutes, drain it off, and dew it in broth till it is tender, with a little fait and a bit of mace ; difh yp the brains, and pour fome of the fauce to the rice; fqueeze in a lemon or orange, and pour over for ferving to table. When you procure tw'o or three pair of eyes, they make an excellent difh done in the manner of doing the fweetbreads. Venal, 127. ' Veal