"jthe "Family Phyfician. 381 Manv things will Ihorten a fit of the gout, and fome will drive it off all together ; but nothing has yet been found which will do this with fafety to the patient. In pain, we eagerly crrafp at any thing that promifes immediate eale, and even ha- zard life itfelf for a temporary relief. This is the true reafort why fo many infallible remedies have been propofed foi the gout, and why fuch numbers have loll their lives by the ufie ot them. It would be as imprudent to flop the fmall-pox from riling, and to drive it into the blood, as to attempt to repel the gouty matter after it has been thrown upon the extremities. The latter is as much an effort of nature to Iree herfelf from an of- fending caufe as the former, and ought equally to be pro- moted. After the fit is over, the patient ought to take a gentle dofe or two of the bitter tindlure of rhubarb, or fome other warm fto- machic purge. He Ihould alfo drink a weak infufion of llo- machic bitters in fmall wine or ale, as the Peruvian bark, with cinnamon, Virginian fnake-rcot, and orange-peel. The diet at this time Ihould be light, but nourilhing ; and gentle exercife ought to be taken on horfeback, or in a carriage. Sydenham. TiJJ'ot. Buchan. 5The Gravely^, Stone« Perfons afflidled with the gravel or Hone, Ihould avoid ali* ments of a windy or heating nature, as fait meats, four fruits* 6cc: Their diet ought chiefly to conlill of fuch as things as tend to promote the fecretion of urine, and to keep the body open. Artichokes, afparagus, fpinach, lettuce, parfley, fuccory, purllane, turnips, potatoes, carrots, and radifhes, may be fafely eat. Onions, leeks, and celery, are, in this cafe, reckoned me- dicinal. The moll proper drinks are whey, butter-milk, milk and water, barley-water, decodtions of the roots of marfh mal- lows, parfley, liquorice, or of other mild mucilaginous vegeta- bles, as linfeed, limetree-buds, or leaves, &c. If the patient has been accultomed to generous liquors, he may drink fmall gin punch without acid. Dr. Whyte advifes patients who are fubjedt to frequent fits of the gravel in the kidnies, but have no Hone in the bladder, to drink every morning, two or three hours before breakfaft, an Englilh pint of oylter or cockle-lhell lime-water. The dodlor very juflly obferves, that though this quantity might be too fmall to have any fenlible effedl in diffolving a Hone in the bladder, yet it may very probably prevent its growth. When