Ornaments for grand Entertainments. 343 French roll, or as many as you want, cut it as thin as you can, lay a layer of that as light as poflible on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, then a very thin layer of roll, and then hartf- horn-jelly, then French roll, and over that whip your froth which you faved off the cream very well milled up, and lay at the top as high as you can heap it; and as for the rim of the difh, fet it round with fruit or fweet-meats according to your fancy. This looks very pretty in the middle of a table, with candles round it, and you may make it of as many dif- ferent colours as you fancy, and according to what jellies, and jams, or fweet-meats you may have ; or at the bottom of the difh you may put the thickeft' cream you can get; but that is as you fancy. Glajfe, 300. A Hedge-Hog. Blanch two pounds of almonds, beat them well in a mortar, with a little canary and orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. Make them into ftiff pafte, then beat in the yolks of twelve eggs, leave out five of the whites, put to it a pint of cream, fweetened with fugar; put in half a pound of fweet butter melted, fet it on a furpace or flow fire, and keep it conffantly flirring till it is flifF enough to be made into the form of an hedge-hog ; then flick it full of blanched almonds, flit and ftuck up like the briftles of an hedge-hog. Then put it into a difh; take a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs beat up ; fweeten with fugar to your palate. Stir them together over a flow fire till it is quite hot ; then pour it round the hedge-hog in a difh, and let it ftand till it is cold, and ferve it up. Or a rich calf’Srfoot jelly made clear and good, poured into the difh round the hgdge-hog ; when it is cold, it looks pretty, and makes a neat difh. Or it looks hapdfome in the middle of a table for fupper. A Fijh-pond, Fill your large fifh-rnoulds, and fix fmall ones with flum- mery ; take a china bowl, and put in half a pint of ftiff clear calf’s-foot jelly ; let it ftand till cold ; then lay two of the fmall fifties on the jelly, the right fide down. Put in half a pint more jelly, let it ftand till cold, then lay in the four fmall fifties acrofs one another, that, when you turn the bowl upfide down, the heads and tails may be feen. Then almoft fill your bowl with jelly, and let it ftand till cold ; then lay in the jelly four large fifties, and fill the bafon quite full with jelly, and let it ftand till the next day. When you want to ufe it, fet your bowl to the brim Z 4 in