320 Creams. \ with half a pint of water, and half a pound of fine fiigar ; beat the whites of five eggs, and mix into it, and fet them on a flow fire; ftir it one way till it grows thick and white, drain it through a gauze, and ftir it till cold; then beat the yolks of five eggs very fine, and put into your pan with the cream ; ftir it over a gentle fire till it is ready to boil, then put it in a ba- fon, and ftir it till it is cold, and then put it into your glafles. GlaJJ'e, igi. Mrs. Rajfald, page 252, has the fame receipt, except that in dead of “ half a pint of water,” and “ halt a pound of fine fugar,” the fays, “ One pint of water, and eight ounces of fu- gar.” Mr. Farley, page 314, has followed her example. Spani/Jj Cream. Mix well together three fpoonfuls of flour of rice lifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three fpoonfuls of water, and two of orange-flower water; then put to them one pint of cream, and fet it upon a good fire, ftirring it till of a proper thicknefs, and pour it into cups. Steeple Cream. Take five ounces of hartlhorn, and two ounces of ivory, and put them into a ftone bottle ; fill it up with fair water to the neck ; put in a fmall quantity of gum-arabic and gum-dragon ; then tie up the bottle very clofe, and fet it into a pot of water, with hay at the bottom. Let it Hand fix hours, then take it out, and let it ftand an hour before you open it, left it fly in your face ; then ftrain it, and it will be a ftrong jelly ; then take a pound of blanched almonds, beat them very fine, mix it with a pint of thick cream, and let it ftand a little ; then ftrain it out, and mix it with a pound of jelly ; fet it over the fire till it is fealding hot, fweeten it to your tafte with double-refined fu- gar ; then take it off, put in a little amber, and pour it into fmall high gallipots, like a fugar-loaf at top ; when it is cold, turn tfiem, and lay cold whipt cream about them in heaps. Be fijre it does not boil when the cream is in. GlaJJ'e, 290. Snow and Cream. Having made a rich boiled cuilard, put it into a china or glafs difh. Then take the whites of eight eggs, beaten with ^ rofe-water, and a fpoonful of treble-refined fugar, till it is of a ftrong froth. Put fome milk and water into.a broad ftew-pan, and as foon as it boils, take the froth off the eggs, lay it on the milk and water, and let it boil once up; then take it off carefully