Of Pickling. *89 In the fame manner you may do a fmaller quantity ; but if you can get rape vinegar, ufe that inftead of fait and water. Do them thusPut your nuts into the jar you intend to pickle them in, throw in a good handful of fait, and fill the pot with rape-vinegar. Cover it clofe, and let them ftand a fortnight ; then pour them out of the pot, wipe it clean, and juft: rub the nuts with a coarfe cloth, and then put them in the jar with the pickle as above. GlaJJ'e, 270. To pickle Walnuts green. Take the largeft double, or French walnuts, before the fhells are hard, pare them very thin, and put them into a tub of fpring water as they are pared; put to them, if there are two or three hundred nuts, a pound of bay-falt; leave them in the water twenty-four hours, then put them into a ftone jar, a layer of vine-leaves, and a layer of walnuts ; fill it up with cold vinegar, and when they have flood all night, pour the vinegar from them into a copper, with a good quantity of bay-falt ; fet it upon the fire, and let it boil, then pour it hot on the nuts; tie them over with a woollen cloth, and let them (land a week ; then pour that pickle from them, rub the nuts clean with a piece of flannel, and put them again into the jar, with vine-leaves, as before-men- tioned ; boil frefh vinegar; to every gallon of vinegar, four or five pieces of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg fliced, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the fame quantity of whole black pepper ; pour the vinegar boiling hot upon the wal- nuts, and cover them with a woollen cloth ; let it (land four or five days, and repeat the fame four or five times. When the vinegar is cold, put in half a pint of muftard-feed, a flick of horfe-radifh fliced ; tie them down with a bladder, and then with leather ; they will be fit to eat in three weeks. If they are in- tended to be kept, the vinegar mud not be boiled, but then they will not be ready under fix months. Mafan, 346. To pickle French Beans. Pour a boiling-hot wine over your French beans, and cover them clofe; the next day drain them and dry them; then pour over them a boiling-hot pickle of white wine vinegar, Ja- maica pepper, black pepper, a little mace, and ginger. Re- peat this for two or three days, or till the French beans look green. To pickle Red Cabbage. Slice your cabbage crofs-ways, put it on an earthen difh, and fprinkle a handful of fait over it. Cover it with another difh, kl and