Of Pies. 279 peel cut fmall, a little fait, pepper, and nutmeg, a few crumbs of grated bread, parfley cut fine, and an anchovy. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter, and lay it in the dilh ; cut the meat from a pair of large foals, and take off the fins, lay it on the force- meat, then pour in the liquor the eels were boiled in, and clofe the pie. Turbot-pie may be made in the fame manner. GlaJJe, 232. Mafn, 363. A Sucking-Pig Pie. Bone the pig thoroughly ; lard the legs and Ihoulders with ba- con feafoned with fpices, and fweet herbs chopped ; put it in a raifed crull of its own length ; feafon it with fpices, fweet herbs chopped, and a pound of butter or feraped bacon : cover it over with thin dices of bacon. Finifh the pie, and bake it about three hours. When near done, add two glades of brandy ; let it be cold before uling. Dalryrnple, 333. A fweet Veal, or Lamb Pie. Cut your veal or Iamb into little pieces, feafon it with pep- per, fait, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, beat fine. Make a good puff-pade crull, lay it in your difh, then lay in your meat, and drew on it fome doned raid ns and currants clean wafhed, and fome fugar. Then lay on it fome force-meat balls made fweet, and in the fummer fome artichoke-bottoms boiled; and in the winter fealded grapes. Boil Spanifh potatoes cut into pieces, candied citron, candied orange, lemon-peel, and three or four blades of mace. Put butter on the top, clofe up your pie, and bake it; have ready, when it comes from the oven, a caudle made as follows : Take a pint of white w'ine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs. Stir it w'ell together over the fire one way all the time, till it is thick ; then take it off, dir in fugar enough to fweeten it, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Put it hot into your pie, and clofe it up again. Send your pie hot to table. Farley, 203. A favoury Veal Pie. Seafon the deaks of a loin of veal with peper, fait, beaten mace, and nutmeg ; put the meat in a difh with fweetbreads feafoned with the meat, and the yolks of fix hard eggs, a pint of oyders, and half that quantity of good gravy ; lay a puff-pade, of hall an inch thick, round your dilh, and cover it with a lid of the lame thicknefs ; bake it an hour and a quarter in a quick oven ; when done, cut off the lid, cut the lid into eight or ten T 4 pieces.