Of Fi/h. 235 flour; garnifli your difh with fried oyfters, fried toad cut three- corner ways, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radifh, and the roe of the carp cut in pieces, fome fried and the other boiled ; fqueeze the juice of a lemon into the fauce juft before you fend it up. Difh it up handfomely, and very hot. Carp a-la-Jacobhie. Put two dozen of {mail onions blanched in a ftew-p^n, with a few fliced truffles, a piece of butter, and a faggot of parfley and fweet herbs ; fimmer this on a flow fire till it catches a lit- tle ; then add three half pints of white wine, and put a carp to it cut in pieces, with a little broth, pepper, and fait; reduce the fauce ; when ready to ferve, add a liafon made of three yolks of eggs and cream, and the juice of half a lemon. Dalrymple, 267. To drofs Carp au Blue. Take a brace of carp alive, and gut them, but neither wafh nor fcale them; tie them to a fifh-drainer, and put them into a fifh-kettle, and pour boiling vinegar over till they are blue; or you may hold them down in a fifh-kettle with two forks, and another perfon pour the vinegar over them. Put in a quart of boiling water, a handful of fait, fome horfe-radifh cut in flices ; boil them gently twenty minutes. Put a fifh-plate in the dilh, a napkin over that, and fend them up hot. Garnifli with horfe- radifh. Boil half a pint of cream, and fweeten it with fine fu- gar for fauce, in a boat or bafon. Glajp, 124. To fry Carp. Take a brace of carp, fcale, gut, and clean them, dry them well in -a cloth, flour them, and put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard; let them be of a fine brown. Fry the roes, and cut fome thin flices of bread with three corners ; fry them. Lay the fifli on a coarfe cloth to drain; then put them into the dilh, the roes on each, the toafts between. Anchovy fauce. To few Tench or Carp. Having gutted and fcaled your fifh, wafh them, and dry them well with a clean cloth ; dredge them well with flour, fry them in dripping, or fweet rendered fuet, till they are a light brown ; then put them in a ftew-pan, with a quart of water, and the fame quantity of red wine, a meat-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, an- other of browning, the fame of walnut or mum-catchup ; a 1 it— tie mufhroom-powder, and chyan to your tafte; a large onion ftuck with cloves, and a ftick of horfe-radifh. Cover your pan clofe to keep in the fteam ; let them ftew gently over a flow fire till your gravy is reduced to juft enough to cover your fifh in