Made DiJJjes of Poultry, &c. 171 Snipes or Woodcocks in furtout. Take force-meat made of veal, as much beef fuet, chopped and beat in a mortar, with an equal quantity of crumbs of bread; mix in a little beaten mace, pepper and fait, fome parfley, and a little fweet herbs; mix it with the yolk of an egg. Lay fome of this meat round the difh, then lay in the fnipes, being firft drawn and half roafted. Take care of the trail, chop it, and throw it all over the difh. Take fome good gravy, according to the bignefs of your fur- tout, fome truffles and morels, a few mufhrooms, a fweetbread cut into pieces, and artichoke-bottoms cut fmall; let all few to- gether, fhake them, and take the yolks of two or three eggs, ac- cording as you want them ; beat them up with a fpoonful or two of white wine, fir all together one way. When it is thick, take it off, let it cool, and pour it into the furtout. Have the yolks of a few hard eggs put in here and there ; feafon with beaten mace, pepper, and fait, to your tafte ; cover it with the force meat all over, rub the yolks of eggs all over to colour it, then fend it to the oven. Half an hour does it, and fend it hot to table. 1 Snipes or Woodcocks in falmy. Trufs them, and half roaft them, without flour ; cut them in fricaflee pieces, and take care to fecure all the inflde, except the gizzards and galls, which you mult be fure to take clean away; but the ropes, livers, &c. pound to a pafle, with a morfel of fhallot, green onion and parfley, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; put in a ladle of your cullis, a glafs of red wine, and pafs it through your etamine, pour it into a ftew-pan to your meat; let it flew very gently for three quarters of an hour ; fling iti a little minced parfley, the juice of an orange, and ferve it up, garnifhed with fried bread, and fome bits in the difh. Any forts of birds, fuch as fnipes, quails, &c. that are not drawn, make a pleafing difh done in the fame manner. VerraL 132. Another way, Half roafl them, and cut them in quarters, put them in a ftew-pan with a little gravy, two fhallots chopped fine, a glafs of red