l Made Dijhes of Mutton. 103 the meat where you took off the fkin ; then lay on the (kin again, and fallen it with two fine fkewers at each fide, and roll it in well-buttered paper. It will take two hours roalling: then take off the paper, bade the meat, drew it all over with crumbs ot bread, and when it is of a fine brown, take it up. For fauce, take fix large diallots, cut them very fine, put them into a fauce- pan with two fpoonfuls of vinegar, and two of white wine boil them for a minute or two, pour it into the difli, and gamifh Yfith horfe-radifh. Glajfe, 47. To drefs a Saddle a St. Menehout. Take the {kin off the hind part of a chine of mutton, lard it with bacon, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, beaten cloves, and nutmeg, fweet herbs, young onions, and pardey, all chopped fine: take a large oval or gravy-pan, lay layers of bacon, and _ then layers of beef all over the bottom ; lay in the mutton, then layers of bacon on the mutton, and then a layer of beef; put in a pint of wine, and as much good gravy as will dew it \ put in a bay-leaf and two or three fhallots, and cover it clofe; put fire pver and under it, if you have a clofe pan, and let it dand dew- ing for two hours; when done, take it out, drew crumbs of bread all over it, and put it into the oven to brown ; drain the gravy it was dewed in, and boil it till there is jud enough for fauce; lay the mutton into a dilh, pour the fauce in, and ferve it up. If you have not an oven, you mud brown it before a fire. Mafon, 165, Mrs. Glajfe, in page 69 of her Art of Cookery, has the fame receipt, though the language is fomewhat different. Mutton the Turkijh way. Let the meat be cut in dices, wadi it in vinegar, put it in a pot, with whole pepper, rice, and two or three onions; dew thefe very dowly, and fkim them very often. When it is ten- der, take out the onions, and put fippits in the diffi tinder them. Saddle of Mutton matted. Take up the fkin, fcarify the meat, and dick in it diced fat livers, truffles, fredi pork, diced onions, and anchovies ? cover H 4 this