55 Made Difhes of Beef N a pint of veal gravy, one fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of catchup and browning, one onion duck with cloves, and a flice of lemon; (lew them half an hour, then take out the onion and lemon, thicken your l'auce, and put them in a difh ; have ready boiled artichoke bottoms, cut them in quarters, and lay them over your palates, with force-meat balls and morels. Gar- nidi with lemon, and ferve them up. Raff aid, ng. Tdo broil Ox Palates. Boil in water as many palates as you pleafe ; peel them, and foak them in faint menoult, which is thusput in a dew-pan a little butter rolled in flour, fait and pepper, two fh allots, a clove of garlick, two cloves, parfley, a laurel-leaf, thyme, with as much milk as will flmmer your palates till tender ; then take them out, and bade them with yolks of eggs and bread crumbs ; broil them (lowly, and ferve them with a lharp fauce. Dulrym- ple} 56. 1To ragoo Ox Palates. Take four ox-palates, and boil them very tender, clean them wfell, cut fome in fquare pieces, and fome long. Make a rich cooley thus:—put a piece of butter in your dew-pan, and melt it; put a large fpoonful of flour to it, dir it well till it is fmooth, then put a quart of good gravy to it; chop three (hallots, and put in a gill of Lifbin; cut fome lean ham very fine and put in, alfo half a lemon ; boil thepi twenty minutes, then drain it through a fieve, put it into your pan, and the palates, with fome force-meat balls, truffles, and morels, pickled or frelh mufli- rooms dewed in gravy ; feafon with pepper and fait tp your lik- ing, and tofs them up five or fix minutes, then difh them up. Garnilh with lemon or beet-root. GlaJJ'e, 44. Slices of Fillet of Beef with clear Gravy and Rocombole. A pound of meat is enough for this difh. Cut it into bits about an inch thick, and flat it down with your knife, or a light cleaver; it is better than dicing; make it very thin, and jag it with the back of your knife crofs and crofs ; rub a large dew- pan with butter, a little green onion and parfley minced, fry your beef brifkly for two or three minutes, tofling it that it may be done on both fides ; take it out into a final! dew-pan, and E 4 pour