376 $he Family Phyjician. I have known very extraordinary effedts from afles milk in obdinate coughs, which threatened a confumption of the lungs ; and do verily believe, if ufed at this period, that it would feldum fail ; but if it be delayed till an ulcer is formed, which is gene- rally the cafe, how can it be expedled to fucceed? borne extraordinary cures in confumptive cafes have been per- formed by women’s milk. Could this be obtained in lufficient quantity, I would recommend it in preference to any other. If the patient can fuck it from the bread, it is better than to drink it afterwards. 1 knew a man who was reduced to fuch a degree of weaknpfs in a, confumption, as not to be able to turn himfelf in his bed. His wife was at that time giving fuck, and his child happening to die, he fucked her breads, not with a view to reap any advantage from the milk, but to make her eafy. Funding himfelf, however, greatly benefited by it, he continued to fuck her till he became perfectly well, and is at prefent a drong and healthy man. Cows milk is mod readily obtained of any ; and though it may not be fo eafiiy digeded as that of ades or mares, it may be rendered lighter, by adding to it an equal quantity of barley- water, or allowing it to dand mr fome hours, and afterwards tak- ing off the cream. If it fhould, notwirhftanding, prove heavy on the domach, a fmail quantity of brandy or rum, wiTh a little fugar, may be added, which will render it both more light and jiourilhing. For the patient’s drink, we would recommend infiifions of the bitter plants, as ground-ivy, the leffcr centaury, camomile dowers, or water trefoil. Thefe infufions may be drank at plea- fure. They drengthen the domach, promote digedion, redfify the blood, and at the fame time anfwer all the purpofes of dilu- tion ; and quench third much better than things that are lufci- ous or fweet. But if the patient fpits blond, he ought to ufe, for his ordinary drink, infufions or decodtions of the vulnerary roots, plants, &c. Sieevens. TijJ'ot. Buchan. Chilblains. Chilblains often attack children in cold weather. They arc generally occafioned by the feet or hands being kept wet or cold, and afterwards fuddenly heated. When children are cold, in- dcad of taking exercife to warm themfelves gradually, they run to the fire. This occafions a hidden rarefadtion of the humours, and an infardtion of the veifels; which being often repeated, the veflels are, at lad, over-didended, and forced to give way.