35® To prepare Bacon, Hams, &c. a fufficient quantity of common fait all over it, and let the beef lie clofe till the fait is diilblved, which will be in fix or feven days. Then turn it every other day for a fortnight; and after that hang it up in a warm, but not a hot place. It may hang a fortnight in the kitchen ; and, when you want it, boil it in bay-falt and pump-water till it is tender. It will keep, when boiled, two or three months, rubbing it with a greafy cloth, or putting it two or three minutes into boding water, to take off the mouldinefs. Farley, 273. To pickle Pork. Having cut your pork into pieces of a convenient fize to lie in your powdering-tub, rub them all over with falt-petre; then make a mixture of two-thirds common fait, and one-third bay- falt, and rub every piece well with it. Lay the pieces in your tub as clofe as poflible, and throw a little fait over them. To make very fine Saufiages. Take fix pounds of good pork, free from fkin, gri flies, and fat; cut it very fmall, and beat it in a mortar till it is very fine ; then fbred fix pounds of beef-fuet very fine, and free from all fkin. Shred it as fine as poflible; then take a good deal of fage, wafh it very clean, pick off the leaves, and fhred it very fine. Spread your meat on a clean dreffer or table ; then fhake the fage all over, about three large fpoonfuls ; fhred the thin rind of a middling lemon very fine and throw over, with as many fweet herbs, when fhred fine, as will fill a large fpoon ; grate two nutmegs over, throw over two tea-fpoonfuls of pepper, and a large fpoonful of fait; then throw over the fuet, and mix it all well together. Put it down clofe in a pot. When you ufe them, roll them up with as much egg as will make them roll fmooth. Make them the fize of a faufage, and fry them in butter or good dripping. Be fure it be hot before you put them in, and keep them rolling about. When they are thoroughly hot, and of a fine light brown, they are enough. You may chop this meat very fine, if you do not like it beat. Veal eats well done thus ; or veal and pork together. You may clean fome guts and fill them. Glafi'e, 257. Another way. Take part of a leg of pork or veal, pick it clean from fkin or fat; to every pound, add two pounds of beef fuet; fhred both fe- verally very fine ; mix them well with fage-leaves chopped fine, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and pounded cloves, and a little grated lemon-peel; put this clofe down in a pot. When it is ufed, v, mix