Made DiJJjes of Beef. 43 or cabbage ftewed, and put into the fauce, Gifs, 36. Far- ley, 91. Beef Tremblant, or Trembling Beef. A rump of beef is the beft for this; but it muft be vaftly cut and trimmed ; cut the edge of the edge-bone off quite clofe to the meat, that it may lay flat in your difh ; and if it is large, cut it at the chump-end fo as to make it fquare ; hang it up for three or four.days, or more, without fait; prepare a marinade*, and leave it all night in foak, fillet it two or three times acrofs, and put it into a pot, the fat uppermoft ; put in as much wa- ter as will a little more than cover it, take care to fkim it well, and feafon as you would for a good broth, adding about a pint of white wine; let it fimmer for as long a time as it will hang to- gether, There are many fauces for this piece of meat, parti- cularly carrots, herbs, &c. minced. Your carrots fhould be cut an inch long, and boiled a little in water, and afterwards ftewed in fome cullis proportionate to your meat. When they are done tender, difh in a glafs of white wine, a little minced fhallot and parfley, and the juice of a lemon ; take your beef out upon a cloth, clean it neatly frqm its fat and liquor, place it hot and whole in your difh, and pour your fauce Hot over it. Stew fome minced parfley over it, it looks prettier. Ver- ral, 59f / ' Another way. Take the fat end of a brifket of beef, and tie it up clofe with packthread ; put it in a pot of water, and boil it fix hours very gently: feafon the water with a little fait, a handful of all-fpice, two onions, two turnips, and a carrot: in the mean while, put a piece of butter in a ftew-pan and melt it, then put in two fpoonfuls of flour, and ftir it till it is fmooth ; put in a quart of giavy, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browing, a gill of white wine, carrots and turnips, and cut the fame as for an har- rico of mutton; ftew them gently till the roots are tender, fea- fon with pepper and fait, fkim all the fat clean off, put the .e m t*le difh, and pour the fauce all over. Garnifh with pickle of any fort, or make a fauce thusChop a handful of parfley, one onion, four pickled cucumbers, one walnut, and a * A pickle. giU