Of Soups. 199 and the lean part of half a ham. Put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large cauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, and two ounces ot mace. Cut off the green leaves of five or fix heads of celery, walh the heads quite clean, cut them fmall, put them in with three large carrots cut thin, cover the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a moderate fire. When you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, then put water in to cover the meat ; fet it on the fire again, and let it boil flowly for four hours, then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean pan, and let it boil three parts away ; then ftrain the gravy that you drew from the meat, into the pan, let it boil gently (obferv- ing to flciin the fat off as it rifes) till it looks thick like glue. You muft take great care, when it is near enough, that it does - not burn ; put in chyan pepper to your tafte, then pour it on flat earthen difhes a quarter of an inch thick, and let it ftand till the next day, and cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece; lay the cakes on difhes, and fet them in the fun to dry. This foup will anfwer beft to be made in frofty wea- ther. When the^cakes are dry, put them in a tin box, with writing-paper between every cake, and keep them in a dry place. This is a very ufeful foup to be kept in gentlemens’ families, for by pouring a pint of boiling water on one cake, and a little fait, it will make a good bafon of broth. A little boiling wa- ter poured on it will make gravy for a turkey or fowls. The longer it is kept the better. N. B. It will be neceffary to keep turning the cakes, as they dry. Raffald, 2. Farley, 150. Macaroni Soup. Mix three quarts of ftrong broth, and one of gravy. Take half a pound of fmall pipe-macaroni, and boil it in three quarts of water, with a little butter in it, till it is tender. Then ftrain it through a fieve. Cut it in pieces of about two inches in length, put it into your foup, and boil it up for ten minutes. Send it to table in a tureen, with the cruft of- a French roll toafted. GlaJJ'e, 126. Mafon, 121. Soupe au Bourgeois. Cut ten or a dozen heads of endive, and four or five bunches of celery into fmall bits; wafh them, let them be well drained from the water, and put into a large pan ; pour upon them four quarts of boiling water; fet on three quarts of beef gravy made for foup, in a large fauce-pan, ftrain the herbs from the water O 4 very