15° Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. flour, pepper, and fait; let it (lew till the chicken is done, &c. and the fauce reduced ; take out the faggot and ham, add a chop- ped anchovy and a few capers, and place the chicken on the difh; Ikim the fauce, and ferve it with the meat. Garnilh with fried bread, Clermont, 198. * ' \ Chickens Chiringrate. Having cut off the feet of your chickens, beat the breafl-bone fiat with a rolling-pin, but take care you do not break the fkin. Flour-them, fry them of a fine brown in butter, and then drain all the fat out of the pan, but leave the chickens in. Lay a pound of gravy beef, cut very thin, over your chicken, and a piece of veal cut very thin, a little mace, two or three cloves, fome whole pepper, an onion, a little bunch of fweet herbs, and a piece of carrot. Then pour in a quart of boiling water, cover it clofe, and let it flew for a quarter of an hour. Then take out the chickens, and keep them hot ; let the gravy boil till it is quite rich and good, and then drain it off and put it into your pan again, with two fpoonfuls of red wine, and a few mufh- rooms. Put in your chickens to heat, then take them up, lay them into your difh, and pour the fauce over them. Garnifh with lemon and a few dices of ham broiled. Glajfe, 79. Far- Icy, 122, Chickens in Afpic. Put the pinions, livers, and gizzards into two fmall chickens, with a piece of butter, fome pepper and fait; cover them with fat bacon, then with paper; fpit them on a long fkewer, tie them to a fpit, road them. When cold, cut them up, put them into the following fauce, {hake them round in it, let them lie a few minutes before they are difhed. Take what cullis is fum- cient for fauce, heat it with fmall green onions chopped, or diallot, a little tarragon and green mint, pepper and fait. ( Mafon, 265. Chickens Italian fajloion. Trufs two chickens as for boiling, lard them with ham and bacon, give them a fry in butter or oil, then put them into a dew-pan, with dices of veal and the butter they were fried in, th,ree cloves, a faggot* 3. clove of garlick, pepper, fait, and hall a lemon