Of Puddings* 263 Norfolk Dumplings. To half a pint of milk put two eggs, and a little fait, and TDake them into a good thick batter with flour. Have ready a clean fauce-pan of water boiling, and drop your batter into it, and two or three minutes will boil them. Be particularly care- ful that the water boils fall when you put the batter in. Then throw them into a fieve to drain, turn them into a difh, and ftir a lump of frefh butter into them. If eaten hot, they are very good. An Oat Pudding. Take two pounds of oats fkinned, and new milk enough to drown it ; eight ounces of raifins of the fun ftoned, the fame quantity of currants neatly picked ; a pound of fweet fuet finely Hired, fix new-laid eggs well beat j feafon with nutmeg, beaten ginger, and fait ; mix it all well together, it will make an excel- lent pudding. An Oatmeal Pudding. Boil a pint of fine oatmeal in three pints of new milk, ftir- ring it till it is as thick as hafty-pudding ; take it off, and ftir in half a pound of frelh butter, a little beaten mace and nutmeg, and a gill of fack ; then beat up eight eggs, half the whites, ftir all well together, lay puff pafte all over the dilh, pour in the pud- ding, and bake it half an hour. Or you may boil it with a few currants. 1 An Orange Pudding. Take the rind of a Seville orange, boil it very foft, beat it in a marble mortar, with the juice; put to it two Naples’ bis- cuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a, pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs; mix them well to- gether ; lay a good puff pafte round the edge of your China difh, bake it in a gentle oven half an hour. You may make a lemon pudding the fame way, by putting in a lemon inftead of the orange. Raff aid, 171. .Peas Pudding. Boil it till it is quite tender; then take it up, untie it, ftir^v a good piece of butter, a little fait, and a good deal of beaten pepper ; then tie it up tight again, boil it an hour longer, and it will eat fine. A Plain Pudding. Put into a pint of milk three laurel-leaves, a little grated le- mon-peel, and a bit of mace'^ boil it, then ftrain it off, and with 9. little flour make it into a pretty thick hafty-pudding; then * S 4 ftir