N 4 of c ) CHAP. X. TURTLES AND MOCK TURTLES. To drefs a Turtle the Wejl India way. TAKE the turtle out of the water the night before you drefs it, and lay it on its back. In the morning cut its head off, and hang it up by its hind fins for it to bleed till the blood is all out; then cut the callapee, which is the belly, round, and raife it up ; cut as much meat to it as you can ; throw it into fpring water with a little fait, cut the fins off, and fcald them with the head ; take off all the fcales, cut all the white meat out, and throw it into fpring water and fait; the guts and lungs muff be cut out. Wafh the lungs very clean from the,blood, then, take the guts and maw and flit them open, wafh them very clean, and put them on to boil in a large pot of water, and boil them till they are tender. Then take off the infide fkin, and cut them in pieces of two or three inches long. Have ready a good veal broth made as follows :—Take one large, or two fmall knuckles of veal, and put them on in three gallons of water ; let it boil, fkim it well, feafon with turnips, onions, carrots, and celery, and a good large bundle of fweet herbs ; boil it till it is half wafted, then ftrain it off. Take the fins, and put them in a ftew-pan, cover them with veal broth, feafon with an onion chopped fine, all forts of fweet herbs chopped very fine, half an ounce of cloves and mace, half a nutmeg beat very fine ; flew it very gently till tender ; then take the fins out, and put in a pint of Madeira wine, and ftew it for fifteen minutes. Beat up the whites of fix eggs with the juice of two lemons, put the li- quor in and boil it up, run it through a flannel bag, make it very hot, walh the fins very clean, and put them in. Take a piece of butter and put at the bottom of a ftew-pan, put your white meat in, and fweatit gently till it is almoft tender. Take the lungs and heart, and cover them with veal broth, with an onion, herbs, and fpice ; as for the fins, ftew them till tender ; take out the lungs, ftrain the liquor off, thicken it, and put in a bottle