Made Difees of Beef. N. Bi A piece of flank, or any piece that can be cut free from bone, will do inftead of the rump. Majon, 125. Bump of Beef fmoked. Bone a rump of beef as well as poflible without fpoiling the fhape ; fait it with a pound of fait, and two ounces of falt-petre; put it in a falting-pan, length-ways, with all forts of fweet herbs, as parfley, fhallots, thyme, laurel, bafil, winter favory, half an handful of juniper berries, a little coriander, fix cloves, and two cloves of garlick ; leave it about a week or ten days in fait, then hang it in the chimney ; when dried, keep it in a dry place. When you want to ufe it, boil it in water without fait, with a few onions, cloves, a faggot of fweet herbs, and a little nutmeg: let it cool in the liquor, and ferve it cold upon a napkin. Gar- nifh with parfley. If you think it will be too fait, foak it fome time before boiling. Dalrymple, 68. To force the injide of a Sirloin of Beef Spit your firloin, then cut off from the infide all the lkin and fat together, and then take off all the flefh to the bones; chop the meat very fine with a little beaten mace, two or three fhallots, one anchovy* half a pint of red wine, a little pepper and fait, and put it on the bones again ; lay your fat and lkin on again, and Ikevver it clofe, and paper it well. When roafted, take off the fat, and dilh up the firloin ; pour over it a fauce made of a little red wine, a fhallot, one anchovy, two or three llices of horfe-raddifh, and ferve it up. Raffalc, 113. Another way. When it is quite roafted, take it up, and lay it in the dilh with the infide uppermoft ; with a fharp knife lift up the lkin, hack and cut out the infide very fine, {hake a little pepper and fait over it, with two {ballots, cover it with the {kin, and fend it to table. You may add red wine or vinegar, juft as you like. l To broil Beef Steaks. Cut your fteaks off a rump of beef about half an inch thick, let your fire be clear, rub your gridiron well with beef-fuet; when it is hot, lay them on, let them broil till they begin to brown, turn