4!4 *fhe Family Phyfician, I {hall, however, confine myfelf to external wounds, recom- mending a fkilful furgeon for the cure of internal ones. The firft thing to be done when a perfon has received a wound, is to examine whether any foreign body be- lodged in it, as wood, (tone, iron, lead, glafs, dirt, bits of cloth, or the like. Thefe, if poffible, ought to be extracted, and the wound cleaned, before any dreflings be applied. When that cannot be affected with fafety, on account of the patient’s weaknefs, or lofs of blood, they muft be fuffered to remain in the wound, and after- \vards extracted when he is more able to bear it. If the wound be in any of the limbs, and a copious bleeding follows, it may be flopped by a bandage round the limb a little above the wound. In flight wounds, which do not penetrate much deeper than the fkin, the beft application is a bit of the common black flicking plafler. This keeps the fides of the wound together, and pre- vents the air from hurting it, which is all that is neceflary. When a wound penetrates deep, it is not fafe to keep its lips quite clofe: this keeps in the matter, and is apt to make the wound fefter. In this cafe the beft way is to fill the wound with foft lint. It muft not be fluffed in too hard, as it will do hurt. The lint may be covered with a cloth dipped in oil, and kept on by a proper bandage. The firfl drefling ought to continue on for at leaft two days ; after which it may be removed, and frefh lint applied as before. When a wound is greately inflamed, the molt proper appli- cation is a poultice of bread and milk, foftened with a little fweet oil or frefh butter. This muft be applied inftead of a plafler, and fhould be changed twice a-day. If the wound be large, and there is reafon to fear an inflam- mation, the patient fhould be kept on a very low diet. He muft abftain from flefh, ftrong liquors, and every thing that is of a heating nature. f or broken fhins, when the fkin only is fcraped off, a piece of brown paper moiftened with brandy is generally fufficient. moiften the paper every day, but do not take it off till the part is quite healed. Taking off the paper admits the air to it and re- tards the cure. Bruifes. Thefe are generally productive of worfe confequences than wounds. The danger does not appear immediately, by which means it often happens that they are ncglcCted. In