393 The FanYily Vhyfictan. applied with the finger, or by means of a bit of foft rag tied to the end of a probe. Buchan. The Tooth-ach. This difeafe is fo well known, that it needs no defeription. It has great affinity with the rheumatifm, and often fucceeds pains of the ihoulders, and other parts of the body. It may proceed from obftrudled perfpiration, or any of the other catifes of inflammation. I have often known the tooth- ach occafloned by negledling fome part of the ufnal coverings of the head, by fitting with the bare head near an open window, or expofing it any how to a draught of cold air. Food or drink taken either too hot or too cold, is very hurtful to the teeth. Great quantities of fugar, or other fweetmeats, are likewife hurt- ful. Nothing is more deftrudtive to the teeth than cracking nuts, or chewing any kind of hard fubftances. Picking the teeth with pins, needles, or any thing that may hurt the enamel with which they are covered, does great mifehief, as the tooth is furc to be fpoiled whenever any thing gets into it. Breeding women are very fubjecl to the tooth-ach, efpecially during the firft three or four months of pregnancy. The tooth-ach often proceeds from fcorbutic humours affedling the gums. • In this cafe the teeth art fometimes wafted, and fall out without any confider- able degree of pain. The more immediate caufe of the tooth- ach is a rotten or carious tooth. In order to relieve the tooth-ach, we muft firfl: endeavour to draw off the humours from the part affedted. This may be done by mild purgatives, fcarifying the gums, or applying leeches to them, and bathing the feet frequently with warm wa- ter. The perfpiration ought likewife to be promoted, by drink- ing freely of weak wine whey, or other diluting liquors, with fmall dofes of nitre. Vomits too, have often an exceeding good effedt in the tooth-ach. It is feldom fafe to adminifter opiates, or any kind of heating medicines, or even to draw a tooth till proper evacuations have been premifed, and thefe alone will often effedt the cure. If this fails, and the pain and inflammation ftill increafe, a fuppuration may be expedted, to promote which, a toafted fig fhould be held between the gums and the cheek ; bags filled with boiled camomile flowers, flowers of elder, or the like, may be applied near the part affedted, with as great a degree ^of warmth as the patient can bear, and renewed as they grow cold. The patient may likewife receive the fleam of warm water into