226 Of Fijh. ter boils, throw in a good handful of fait, with a glafs of alle- gar, then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently for half an hour; if it is a large one, three quarters. Take it up very carefully, and ftrip the fkin nicely off. Set it before a brifk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafte it well with butter. When the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs. You muft keep bafting it all the time to make it froth well. When it is of a fine white brown, difh it up, and garnifh it with a lemon cut in flices, fcraped horfe-radifh, barberries, a few fmall fifh fried and laid round it, or fried oyfters. Cut the roe and liver into flices, and lay over it a little of the lobfter out of the fauce in lumps, and then ferve it. Raffald, 20. To broil Cod. Having cut a cod into flices of about two inches thick, dry and flour them well; make a good clear fire, rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and fet it high from the fire. Turn them often till they are quite enough, and of a fine brown. They require great care to prevent them from breaking. Lobfter or fhrimp fauce. To drefs Salt Cod. Let your fifh lie in water all night, and if you put a glafs of vinegar into the water, it will draw out the fait, and make it eat frefh. The next day boil it, and when it is enough, break it into flakes on the difh. Pour over it parfnips boiled, and beat fine, with butter and cream ; but egg fauce is mdre gene- rally ufed. As it very foon grows cold, you muft fend it to table on a water plate. Farley, 28. Frefh Cod witty fweet herbs. Cut a fmall cod in five or fix pieces, bone it, and marinade it in melted butter, the juice of a lemon, chopped parfley, fhal- lots, and fweet herbs; then lay it upon the difh you intend for table, with all the marinade both under and over, and ftrew it over with bread-crumbs. Bafte it with melted butter, bake if in the oven, and ferve it with what iauce you think proper. Dairymplc, 321. To crimp Cod. Cut a veiy frefh cod into flices, and throw it into pump wa- ter and fait; fet over a ftove a fifh-kettle, or ftew-pan, almoft full of fpring water, and fait enough to make it tafte brackifh. Make it boil very quick, and then put in the flices of cod, and keep them boiling ; fkim them very clean ; they will take about eight