J94 Of Soups, for an hour or fo ; and, when it is almofl: your time of dining, add a little fpinach, forrel, and chervil, chopped, but not fmall, and boil it about five minutes ; prepare your crufts in a ftew-pan, and lay at the bottom of your difh ; lay your duckling in the middle, and pour your foup over it; and ferve it up with fome thin bits of celery for garnifh, or without, as you like beft. For the fummer feafon, you may add a handful of young peas, heads of afparagus, nice littie firm bits of cauliflower, bottoms of artichokes, and many other things that the feafon affords. VerraJ, 9. Soup Sante the Englifh way. Provide about ten or twelve pounds of gravy-beef, a knuckle of veal, and the knuckle part of a leg of mutton, a couple of fowls (or two old cocks will do as well) and a gallon of water; let thefe (lew very foftly till reduced to one half (fet them on to flew the night before); add to them fome crufts of bread ; put fn a bunch of fweet herbs, fome celery, forrel, chervil, and purf- lain, if agreeable ; or any of them may be left out. When it is ftrong and good, ftrain it; fend it to table, with either a roaft or boiled fowl, or a piece of roafted or boiled neck of veal, in the middle, and fome fried bread in a plate. Craw-fifh Soup. Boil about fifty frefh craw-fifh ; pick out all the meat, which you rnuft fave; pick out all the meat of a frefh lobfter, which you muft likewife fave; pound the fhells of the craw-fifh and lobfter fine in a marble mortar, and boil them in four quarts of water, with four pounds of mutton, a pint of green fplit peas, nicely picked and wafhed, a large turnip, carrot, onion, mace, cloves, anchovy, a little thyme, pepper, and fait. Stew them on a flow fire till all the goodnefs is out of the mutton and fhells, then ftrain it through a fieve, and put in the tails of your craw- fifh and the lobfter-meat, but in very fmall pieces, with the red coral of the lobfter, if it has any; boil it half an hour, and juft before you ferve it up, add a little butter melted thick and fmooth ; ftir it round feveral times when you put it in; ferve it very hot; but do not put too much fpice in it. N. B. Pick out all the bags and the woolly part of your craw-fifh, before you pound them. Raffald, 13. Farley, 165. Prawns make an excellent foup, done juft in the fame man- ner ; but you muft obferve, that there is a fat all bag in the car- cafe, full of gravel, which muft be always taken out before you pound them for your flock. Vcrral, 21. Plu»l