Of Boiling* 35 D 2 Another way. Take otit the gills and guts, wafli it well, then make a good force-meat of oyflers chopped fine, the crumb of half a penny- loaf, a few fweet herbs, and a little lemon-peel Hired fine \ nut- meg, pepper, and fait,, to your tafte ; a good lump of butter, and the yolks of two eggs ; mix them well together, and put them in the belly of your fifh ; few it up, fkewer it round, put hard water in your fifh-pan, add to it a tea-cupful of vinegar, and a little fait. When it boils, put in the fifh ; if it be a middle fize, it will take half an hour’s boiling. Garnifh it with walnuts and pickled barberries ; ferve it up with oyfter-fauce in a boat, and pour a little fauce on the pike. You may drefs a roafted pike in the fame way. To boil Sturgeon. Clean your fturgeon, and prepare as much liquor as will juft boil it. To two quarts of water, put a pint of vinegar, a ftick of horfe-radidi, two or three bits of lemon-peel, fome whole pepper, a bay leaf, and a finall handful of fait. Boil your fifh in this, and ferve it in the following fauce:—melt a pound of butter, diffolve an anchovy in it, put in a blade or two of mace, bruife the body of a crab in the butter, a few fhrimps or craw- filh, a little catchup, a little lemon-juice ; give it a boil, drain your fifli well, and lay it in your difh. Garnifh. with fried oyf- ters, diced lemon, and fcraped horfe-radifh; pour your fauce into boats or bafons. So you may fry it, ragoo it, or bake it. GlaJ/e, 187. Mafon, 218. Another way. . ^oil the burgeon in juft as much liquid as will do between boiling and ftewing; put to this fome broth, butter, a little vi- negar and white wine, all forts of fweet herbs, bits of carrots, ilices ot onions, whole pepper, and fait, according to the bignefs f ■ , en r ’ ~r a whole one, when properly cleaned, fluff it ! , 3 ° ^weet herhs chopped, pepper and fait, all mixed wi 1 gooc utter, and ferve upon a napkin garnifhed with green parfley. Serve what fauce you think proper in boats, fuch as anchovies, capers, &c, Clermont, 364. To