*3 4 Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. turkey, cover the pan, and fet it on the fire five minutes ; then put in as much clear broth as will cover it, let it boil two hours; when it is more than half done, put in one ounce of ifing-glafs and a bundle of herbs. When it is done enough, take out the turkey, and (train the jelly through a hair fieve, (kirn off all the fat, and when it is cold, lay the turkey upon it, the bread down, and cover it with tfie red of the jelly. Let it dand in fome cold place. When you ferve it lip, turn it on the difh it is to be ferved in. If you pleafe, you may fpread butter over the tur- key’s bread, and put fome green parfley or flowers, or what you pleafe, and in what form you like. To Jlezv a Turkey brozvn the nice zvay. Bone it, and fill it with a force-meat thus:—Take the flefh of a fowl, half a pound of veal, and the flefh of two pigeons, with a well-pickled or dry tongue, peel it, and chop it all together: then beat it in a mortar, with the marrow of a beef boqe, or a pound of the fat of a loin of veal; feafon it with two or three; blades of mace, two or three cloves, and half a nutmeg dried at a good didance from the fire, and pounded, with a little pepper and fait. Mix all tliefe well together, fill your turkey, fry them of a fine brown, and put it into a little pot that will jud hold it; lay four or five fkewers at the bottom of the pot, to keep the turkey from dicking ; put in a quart of good beef and veal gravy, wherein was boiled fpice and fweet herbs, cover it clofe, and let it dew half an hour ; then put in a glafs of white wine, one fpoonful of catchup, a large fpoonful of pickled mufhrooms, and a few frefh ones, if you have them, a few truffles and mo- rels, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, rolled in flour; cover it clofe, and let it dew half an hour longer; get the little French rolls ready fried, take fome oyders, and drain the liquor from them, then put the oyders and liquor into a fauce-pan, with a blade of mace, a little white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let them dew till it is thick, then fill the loaves, lay the turkey in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. Jf there is any fat on the gravy, take it off, and lay the loaves on each fide of the turkey. Garnifh with lemon when you have no loaves, and take oyders dipped in butter and fried. Glnfj'e, 73. Forley^ 68. Note.—The fame will do for any white fowl. Another