Syllabubs, Blanc-mange, Flumm ry, 339, Flummery. Take an ounce of bitter, and the fame quantity of fweet al- monds, put them into a bafon, and pour over them fome boil- ing water to make theftkins come off. Then ltrip otf the Ik ns, and throw the kernels into cold wrater; take them out, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little rofe-water to keep them from oiling; and when they are beat, put them into a pint of calf’s-feet flock; fet it over the fire, and fweeten it to your tafle with loaf-fugar. As foon as it boils, drain it through a piece of muflin or gauze; and, when it is a little cold, put it into a pint of thick cream, and keep flirring it often till it grows thick and cold. Wet your moulds in cold water, and pour in the flum- mery. Let them fland about fix hours before you turn them out, and, if you make your flummery ftiff, and wet your moulds, it will turn out without putting them into warm water, which will be a great advantage to the look of the figures, as warm wa- ter gives a dullnefs to the flummery. Farley, 324. ' ■ Another wav. Boil an ounce of ifing-glafs in a little water, till it is melted; pour to it a pint of cream, a bit of lemon-peel, a little brandy, and fugar to the tafle ; boil and flrain it, put it into a mould, turn it out. Mafon, 451. HartJJoorn Flummery. Take half a pound of the fhavings of hartfhorn, boil them in three pints of water till it comes to a pint, then flrain it through a fleve into a bafon, and fet it by to cool; then fet it over the fire, let it juft melt, and put to it half a pint of thick cream fcalded and grown cool again, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two fpoonfuls of orange-flower water; fweeten it with fu- gar, and beat it for an hour and an half, or it will neither mix well nor look well; dip your cups in water before you put in the flummery, or it will not turn out well. It is belt when it (lands a day or two before you turn it out. When you ferve it up, turn it out of the cups, and flick blanched almonds, cut in long narrow bits, on the top. You may eat them either with wine or with cream. GlaJJ'e, 296. JVelch Flummery. Put a little ifinglafs to a quart of ltifF hartfhorn jelly; add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and fome lemon-juice and fugar; boil this till it is thick, then drain it. You may, if you pleafe, add three ounces of almonds, blanched and beaten; about ten bitter ones. rL^ Yellow