Made Difoes of Poultry, £ffc. 167 Vialf a pint, then ftrain it off, and (kirn off all the fat. In the mean time have a veal fvveetbread cut fmall, truffles and mo- rels, cocks’ combs, and fowl’s livers ftewed in a pint of good gravy half an hour, fome artichoke bottoms, and afparagus tops, both blanched in warm water, and a few mufhrooms. Then add the other gravy to this, and put in your partridges to heat. If it is not thick enough, take a piece of butter rolled in flour, and tofs up in it. If you will be at the expence, thicken it with veal and ham cullis, but it will be full as good without. Glaf'r, 96. Farley, 128. T0 few Partridges. Trufs your partridges as for roafting, fluff the craws, and lard them down each fide of the breaft; then roll a lump of but- ter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put into the bellies. Sew up the vents, dredge them well, and fry them a light brown. Then put them into a flew-pan, with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of mufhroom catchup, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, and half the quantity of mufhroom powder, one anchovy, half a lemon, a fprig of fweet marjoram. Cover the pan clofe, and flew them half an hour ; then take them out, and thicken the gravy. Boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke bottoms, boiled and cut in quarters, and the yolks of four hard eggs, if agreeable. Raff aid, 134. Partridges rolled. Lard young partridges with ham or bacon; ftrew over them fome pepper and fait, with fome beaten mace, fome fhred lemon- peel, and fweet herbs cut fmall; then take fome thin beef-fteaks (there muft be no holes in them); ftrew over thefe fome of the feafoning, and then fqueeze on them fome lemon-juice; lay a partridge upon each fteak, and roll it up ; tie it round to keep it together, and pepper the outfide. Set on a flew-pan with fome dices of bacon, and an onion cut into pieces ; lay the partridges carefully in, put to them fome rich gravy, and let them flew gently till they are done; then take the partridges out of the beef, lay them in a dilh, and pour over them fome rich elfence of ham. . M 4 Partridges