43 ^ The Family Phyjician. mations of thefe parts; it is alfo proper in many other com- plaints. Directions for making Lavender Heater. Fill a glafs or earthen body two thirds full of lavender flowers, and then fill up the veflel with brandy or melafles fpirits. Let the flowers ftand in infuflon eight days, or lefs if ftraitened for time ; then diftil off the fpirit, in a water-bath with a brifk fire, at firft in large drops or even a fmall ftream, that the eflential oil of the flowers may rife with the fpirit. But as this cannot be done without the phlegm coming over the helm at the fame time, the fpirit muff be rectified. The firft diftillation being finifhed, un- lute the ftill, throw away what remains in the body, and fill it with frefh flowers of lavender, in the proportion of two pounds of lavender flowers to one pint of fpirit ; pour the fpirit already diftilled according to the foregoing diredlions, on the lavender flowers, and diftil a fecond time in a vapor bath. To make Orange-flower Water. Having gathered (two hours before fun-rife in fine weather) a quantity of orange-flowers, pluck them leaf by leaf, and throw away the ftalks and ftems : fill a tin cucurbit two thirds full of thefe picked flowers; lute on a low bolt-head, not above two inches higher than the cucurbit; place it in balneo mariae, or a water- bath, and diftil with a ftrong fire. You run no rifk from preffing forward the diftillation with violence, the water-bath effeddually preventing the flowers from being burnt. In this method you pay no regard to the quantity, but the quality of the water drawn off. If nine pounds of orange flowers were put into the ftill, be fatisfied with three or four quarts of fragrant water; however, you may continue your diftillation, and fave even the laft droppings of the ftill, which have fome fmall fragrancy. During the operation, be careful to change the water in the re- frigeratory veflel as often as it becomes hot. Its being kept cool prevents the diftilled water from having an empyreumatic or burnt fmell, and keeps the quin’teflence of the flowers more Intimately united with its phlegm. . Virgin's Milk, a fafe and excellent Cofmetic, Take equal parts of gum benjamin and ftorax, diflolve them in a fufficient quantity of fpirit of wine. The fpirit will then become a reddifti tinfture, and exhale a very fragrant fmell. Some people add a little balm of gilead. Drop a few drops into £ glafs of clear water, and the water, by ftirring, will inftantly become milky. This may be ufed with fafety and fucccfs: it Vvill clear the complexion, for which purpofe nothing is better.