Of Pickling. 287 and taken from the vines before they are too ripe, or yellow at the ends. Cut a piece out of the fide, and take out the feeds with an apple fcraper or tea-fpoon. Then put them into very firong fait and water for eight or nine days, or till they are very yellow. Stir them well two or three times each day, and put them into a pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both over and under them. Beat a little roach-allum very fine, and put it into the fait and water they came out of. Pour it on your cucumbers, and fetit upon a very flow fire for four or five hours, till they are pretty green. Then take them out, and drain them in an hair fieve, and when they are cold, put to them a little horfe-radifh, then muftard-feed, two or three heads of garlic, a few pepper-corns, a few green cucumbers fliced in fmall pieces, then horfe-radifh, and the fame as before-mentioned, till you have filled them. Then take the piece you cut out, and few it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the refl in the fame manner. Have ready the following pickle :—To every gallon of allegar, put an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, two ounces of fliced ginger, the fame of long pepper, Jamaica pep- per, and black pepper ; three ounces of mufiard-feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlic, and a ftick of horfe-raddifh cut in flices. Boil them five minutes in the allegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down, and keep them for ufe. Farley, 240. Topickle Onions. Take fome fmall onions, peel them, and put them into fait and water ; fhift them once a day for three days, then fet them over the fire in milk and water till ready to boil ; dry them, pour over them the following pickle when boiled, and cold :— Double-diftilled vinegar, fait, mace, and one or two bav-leaves ; they will not look white with any other vinegar. Another way. Take a fufficient number of the fmallefl: onions you can get. and put them into fait and water for nine days, obferving to change the water every day. Then put them into jars, and pour trefii boiling fait and water over them. Let them {land clofe covered till they are cold, then make fome more fait and water, and pour it boiling hot upon them. When it is cold, put your onions into a hair fieve to drain, then put them into wide-mouthed bottles, and fill them up with diflilled vinegar. Put into every bottle a flice or two of ginger, a blade of mace, and a large tea-fpoonful of eating oil, which will keep the onions white.