Of Fifh. 211 with boiling lard enough to cover it; fry it till it is brown, then drain it ; clean the pan, put into it claret or white wine, almoft enough to cover it, anchovy, fait, nutmeg, and a little ginger; put in the fifh, and let it ftew till half the liquor is waded; then take it out, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a minced lemon ; let them fimmer till of a proper thicknefs, rub a hot difh with a piece of fhallot, lay the turbot in the dilh, and pour the fauce over it. To bake a ’Turbot. Take a difh about the fize of the turbot, rub butter thick all over it, throw a little fait, a little beaten pepper, and half a large nutmeg, fome parfley minced fine, and throw all over; pour in a pint of white wine, cut off the head and tail, lay the turbot in the difh, pour another pint of white wine all over, grate the other half of the nutmeg over it, and a little pepper, fome fait, and chopped parfley. Lay a piece of butter here and there all over, and throw a little flour all over, and then a good many crumbs of bread. Bake it, and be fure that it is of a fine brown ; then •lay it in your difh, ftir the fauce in your difh all together, pour it into a fauce-pan, fhake in a little flour, let it boil, then ftir in a piece of butter and two fpoonfuls of catchup, let it boil, and pour it into bafons. Garnifli your difh with lemon; and you may add what you fancy to the fauce, as fhrimps, anchovies, mufhrooms, See. If a fmall turbot, half the wine will do. It eats finely thus. Lay it in a difh, fkim off all the fat, and pour the reft over it. Let it ftand till cold, and it is good with vi- negar, and a fine difh to fet out a cold table. GlajJ'e, 178. Turbot with Pontiff Sauce. Take a fifh-kettle or ftew-pan much of the fize of the turbot, with a fifh-plate in it, and garnifh it with thin flices of ham and veal, fliced roots and onions, one clove of garlic, a little whole pepper, and three cloves; foak it on a flow fire near half an hour, then add a bottle of white wine, and as much broth, with fait fufficient; ftew it on a flow fire till the meat is done, then ftrain the fauce, put the turbot to it, and ftew it on a flow fire till it is done ; then drain it, and ferve it with pontiff fauce ; or you may ferve it with the fauce it was ftewed in, thickening it with flour and butter, and feafoning it according to tafte and judgment. Dalrytnple, 304. Salmon a-la-braife. ' ^Make a force-meat thus:—Take a large eel, flit it open, and take out the bone, and take the meat quite clean from it; chop • it /