Of Roofing. 2 through, and muft be often balled to keep up a ftrong froth ; it makes them rife better, and a finer colour. Pigs, and geefe fhould be roafied before a good fire, and turned quick. Hares and rabbits require time and care, to fee the ends are roafied enough ; when they are half roafied, cut the neck-fkin, and let out the blood, or when they are cut up they often appear bloody at the neck. Rajfald, p. 53. Farley, 33. I raufi defire the cook to order her fire according to what {he is to drefs; if any thing very little or thin, then a pretty little brilk fire, that it may be done quick and nice ; if a very large joint, then be fure a good fire be laid to cake. Let it be clear at the bottom ; and when your meat is half done, move the drip- ping-pan and fpit a little from the fire, and ftir up a good brilk fire ; for, according to the goodnefs of your fire, your meat will be done fooner or later. Giaffc, 1. As foon as the meat is put to the fire, pour over it fome warm water, which throw away ; this is very necefiary to thofe who arc nice in the drefiing their meat, it being a good deal handled in the fpitting; fiiake fome flour over it, bafte it with butter, and do not put it too near the fire; this. With frequently bailing it, a brilk fire, and allowing time enough, are the only means of roafting in perfection ; when the fleam draws to the fire, the meat is done ; flour and bafte it juft before it is fent to the table, that it may have a nice froth ; always allow a longer time for the meat to roaft in frofty weather; take particular care to have the fpit clean, as nothing is more difagreeabl^ than a fpit-mark; and remember, when the meat is half done, to remove the drip- ping-pan and fpit a little from the fire, and ftir it; if it is a good fire before the meat is laid down, once ftirring it will in general roaft a joint of meat. Never fait the meat before it is put to the fire, it draws out the gravy too much; if it is to be kept fome time before it is drefled, as indeed mutton and beef are not good frefh killed, be fure to dry it well with a cloth, and hang it where it will have a thorough air ; look at it every day, and wipe off all the damp ; it will keep a long time. Some pepper it a little. Maforiy 120. GlaJJ'e, 2. To roajl Beef. Be fure to paper the top, and bafte it well all the time it is Toafting, and throw a handful of fait on it. When you lee the frnoke