416 The Family Fhyjician. ■with grofs food, but not allowed exercife nor free air ; by which means they indeed grow fat, but their humours, not being pro- perly prepared or ammilated, remain crude, and occafion indi- gefhons, grofs humours, and oppreflion of the fpirits, in thofe who feed upon them. Animals are often rendered unwholefome by being over-heated. Exceffive heat caufes a fever, exalts the animal falts, and mixes the blood fo intimately with the flefh, that it cannot be feparared. For this reafon, butchers fhould be feverelv punifhed who over- drive their cattle. No perfon would chufe to eat the flefh of an animal who had died in a high fever \ yet that is the cafe with all over-drove cattle ; and the fever is often raifed even to the degree of madnefs. But this is not the only way by which butchers render meat unwholefome. The abominable cuftom of filling the cellular membrane of animals with air, in order to make them appear fat, is every day pra&ifed. This not only fpoils the meat, and renders it unfit for keeping, but is fuch a dirty trick, that the very idea of it is fufficient to difgufl: a perfon of any delicacy at every thing which comes from the fhambles. Who can bear'the thought of eating meat which has been blown up w th air from the lungs of a dirty fellow, perhaps labouring under the very worft of difeafes. No people in the world eat fuch quantities of animal food as the Englifh, which is one reafon why they are fo generally tainted with the fcurvy, and its numerous train of confequences ; low fpirits, hypochondria'cifm, &c. Animal food was furely de- figned for man, and, w ith a proper mixture of vegetables, it will be found the mod wholefome \ but to gorge beef, mutton, pork, fifh, and fowl, twice or thrice a day, is certainly too much. All who value health ought to be contented with eating one meal of flefh in the twenty-four hours, and this ought to conlifl of one kind only. Our aliment ought neither to be too moifl: nor too dry. Moifl: aliments relax the folids, and render the body feeble. Thus we fee females, who live much on tea, and other watery diet, gene- rally become weak, and unable to digelt folid food. Hence proceed hyflerics, and all their dreadful confequences. On the other hand, food that is too dry, renders the folids in a manner rigid, and the humours vifcid, which difpofes the body to in- flammatory fevers, fcurvies, and the like. Much has been faid on the ill effe&s of tea in diet. They are, no doubt, numerous ; but they proceed rather from the im-