397 'The Family Fhyjictan. falop, &c. His drink may be wine diluted with water, and fharpened with the juice of lemon, vinegar, or fpirits of vitriol, The belt medicine in this cafe is the Peruvian bark, which may be taken according to the urgency of the fymptoms. When a flux of blood is^ the effeft of acrid food, or of flrong ftimulating medicines, the cure is to be effected by foft and mucilaginous diet. The patient may likewife take frequently about the bulk of a nutmeg of Locatelli’s balfam, or the fame quantity of fperma-ceti. When an obftru&ed perforation, or a flri&ure upon any part of the fyftem is the caufe of an hoemorrhage, it may be removed by drinking warm diluting liquors, lying a-bed, bathing the ex- tremities in warm water, &c. TiJ/it. Fhe Aphthce, or Fhrujh. The aphthoe are little whitilh ulcers affedling the whole in- fide of the mouth, tongue, throat, and ftomach of infants. Some- times they reach through the whole inteflinal canal ; it which cafe they are very dangerous, and often put at end to the infant’s life. . If the aphthce are of a pale colour, pellucid, few in number, ; foft, fuperflcial, and fall eafily off, they are not dangerous; but if opaque, yellow, brown, black, thick, or running together, . they ought to be dreaded. The moft proper medicines for the aphthoe, are vomits, and i gentle laxatives. Five grains of rhubarb, and half a drachm . of magnefta alba, may be rubbed together, and divided into fix dofes, one of which may be given to the infant every four or five : hours till they operate. Thefe powders may either be given in the child’s food, or a little of the fyrup of pale rofes, and may be | repeated as often as is found neceflary to keep the body open. It >' is common, in this cafe to adminilter calomel; but as that me- dicine fometimes occafions gripes, it ought always to be given rto infants with caution. Many things have been recommended for gargling the mouth. :Jand throat in this difeafe ; but it is not eafy to apply thefe in [very young infants. I would, therefore, recommended it to the Inurfe. to rub the child’s mouth frequently with a little borax and jhoney ; or with the following mixture:—Take fine honey, an jounce; borax, a drachm; burnt allum, half a drachm; rofe- 9water, two drachms; mix them together. A very proper ap- plication in this cafe, is a folution of ten or twelve grains of white vitriol in eight ounces of barley-water. Thefe may be applied