224 Made Dijbes of Pork, &c. Collared Pig. Kill a line young roafting pig, drefs off the hair and draw it, and wafh it clean; rip it open from one end to the other, and take out all the bones ; rub it all over with pepper and fait, a little cloves and mace beaten fine, fix fage leaves and fweet herbs chopped fmall; roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet; fill the pot you intend to boil it in with foft water, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper-corns, fome cloves and mace, a handful of fait, and a pint of vinegar; when the liquor boils, put in your pig ; boil it till it is tender; take it up, and when it is almoft cold, bind it over again, put it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor your pig was boiled in over it, and always keep it covered. When you want it, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, then cut it in flices, and lay it in your difh- Garnifh with parlley. Glajfe, 65. Majon, 186. 'To bake a Pig. When neceflity obliges you to bake a pig, lay it in a difh, flouf it well all over, and rub the pig over with butter. Butter the difh in which you intend to put it, and put it in the oven. Take it out as foon as it is enough, and having rubbed it over with a but- ter cloth, put it into the oven again till it is dry; then take it out, lay it in a difh, and cut it up. Take ofF the fat from the difh it was baked in, and fome good gravy will remain at the bottom. Add to this a little veal gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil it up ; put it into the difh, with the brains and fage in the belly. Farley, 46. ■A Pig in Jelly. Cut it into quarters, and lay it into your ftew-pan ; put in one calf’s foot, and the pig’s feet, a pint of Rhenifh wine, the juice of four lemons, and One quart of water, three or four blades of mace, two or three doves, fome fait, and a very little piece of lemon-peel ; ftove it, or do it over a flow fire two hours; then take it up, lay the pig into the difh you intended for it, then ftrain the liquor, and when the jelly is cold, {kim off the fat, and leave the fettling at the bottom. Beat up the whites of fix eggs, and