Of Pickling. 291 them down with a bladder, and over that a leather. They will be fit for ufe in a month. GlaJJe, 272. To pickle Capers. Thefe are the flower-buds of a fmall fhrub, preferved in pickle. The tree which bears capers is called the caper-lhrub, or bufh. It is common in the Weltern part of Europe. We have them in fome gardens, but Toulon is the principal place for capers. We have fome from Lyons, but they are flatter, and lefs firm ; and fome come from Majorca, but they are fait and difagreeable. The fineft flavoured are from Toulon. They ga- ther the buds from the blofloms before they are open, then fpread them upon a floor in the room, where no fun enters, and there let them lie till they begin to wither ; they then throw them into a tub of fharp vinegar, and, after three days, they add a quan- tity of bay fait. When this is diflolved, they are fit for packing for fale, and are fent to all parts of Europe. The fined capers are thofe of a moderate fize, firm, and clofe, and fuch as have the'pickle highly flavoured; thofe which are foft, flabby, and half open, are of little value. Mafon, 353. To pickle Samphire. Take the famphire that is green, put it into a clean pan, and throw over it two or three handfuls of fait; then cover it with. Spring-water. Let it lie twenty-four hours, then put it into a clean fauce-pan, throw in a handful of fait, and cover it with good vinegar. Cover the pan clofe, and fet it over a flow; fire. Let it ftand till it is juft green and crifp, and then take it off at that moment; for if it fhould remain till it is foft, it will be fpoiied. Put it in your pickling-pot, and cover it clofe. As foon as it is cold, tie it down with a bladder and leather, and keep it for ufe. Or you may keep it all the year in a very ftrong brine of fait and water, and throw it into vinegar juft before you ufe it. Glajffe, 278. Majon, 352. Farley, 251. To pickle Beet Roots. Beet-roots, which are a pretty garnifli for made difhes, are thus pickledBoil them tender, peel them, and, if agreeable, cut them into fliapes; pour over them a hot pickle of white-wine vinegar, a little pepper, ginger, and horfe-radifti fliced. To pickle Barberries. Let your barberries be gathered before they are too ripe ; take care to pick out the leaves and dead ftalks, and then put them into jars, with a large quantity of ftrong fait and water, and tie them down with a bladder. U 2 N. B.