Soups without Meat, Peas Soup. Put a quart of fplit peas into a gallon of water to boil. When they are quite foft, put in half a red herring, or two anchovies, a good deal of whole pepper, black and white, two or three blades of mace, four or five cloves, a bundle o fvveet herbs, a large onion, the green tops of a bunch of celery, and a good bundle of dried mint; cover them clofe, and let them boil foftly till there is about two quarts; then (train it off, and have ready the white part of the celery wafhed clean, and cut fmall, and {tewed tender in a quart of water, fome fpinach picked and wafiied clean, put to the celery; let them (tew till the water is quite wafted, and put it to your foup. Take out the crumb of, a French roll, fry the cruft brown in a little frefh butter; take fome fpinach, (tew it in a little butter, after it is boiled, and fill the roll; take the crumb, cut it in pieces, beat it in a mortar with a raw egg, a little fpinach, and a little forrel, a little beaten mace, a little nutmeg, and an anchovy ; then mix it up with your hand, and roll them into balls with a little flour, and cut fome bread into dice, and fry them crifp ; pour your foup into your dilh, put in the balls and bread, and the roll in the middle. Garnifh your dilh with fpinach. If it w’ants fait, you muft feafon it to your palate ; rub in fome dried mint. Glajfe, 152. Mujfel Soup. Wafli a hundred muflels very clean, and put them into a fauce-pan till they open, then take them from the fhells, beard them, and ftrain the liquor through a lawn fieve; beat a dozen craw-fifh very fine, with as many almonds blanched in a mor- tar ; then take a carrot and a fmall parfnip fcraped, and cut in flices, fry them in butter; take the muflel liquor, with a fmall bunch of fweet herbs, a little parfley and horfe-radifh, with the craw-fifh and almonds, a little pepper and fait, and half the muf- fels, with a quart of water, or more; let it boil till all the goodnefs is out of the ingredients, then ftrain it off to two quarts of the white fifh-ftock ; put it into a fauce-pan ; put in the reft of the muflels, a few mufhrooms and truffles, a leek waflied and cut fmall; take two French rolls, cut out the crumb, fry it brown, cut it into little pieces, and put it into the foup; let it boil together for a quarter of an hour, with the fried carrot and parfnip ; at the fame time, take the cruft of the roll, and fry them crifp. Take the other half of the muflels, a quarter of a pound of butter, a fpoonful of water; fliake in a little flour.