209 Gravies and Broths'. catchup, the fame quantity of mufhroom liquor, one anchovy, a little blade of mace* fome whole pepper, and a bit of carrot. Let j it fimmer for a quarter of an hour, and then ftrain it off. Ufe it for fifh or fowl. Majon, 327. Good brown Gravy. To half a pint of beer or ale that is not bitter, put half a pint of water, an onion cut fmall, a little bit of lenlon-peel cut fmall, three cloves, a blade of mace, fome whole pepper, a fpoonful of mufhroom-pickle, a fpoonful of walnut-pickle, a j fpoonful of catchup, and an anchovy. Firft put a piece of but- 1} ter into a fauce-pan, as big as an hen’s egg ; when it is melted* ! fhake in a little flour, and let it be a little brown; then by de- 1 grees ftir in the above ingredients, and let it boil a quarter of an 1 hour, then ftrain it, and it is fit for fifli or roots. Gravy for a Turkey, Fowl, or Ray00. Take a pound of lean beef, cut and hack it well, then flour c it well. Put a piece of butter, as big as an hen’s egg, in a ftew- | pan ; when it is melted, put in your beef, fry it on all fides a r little brown ; then pour in three pints of boiling water, and a bundle of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, three or i' four cloves, twelve whole pepper-corns, a little bit of-carrot, a ; little piece of cruft of bread-toafted brown ; cover it clofe, and 1 let it boil till there is about a pint or lefs. Then feafon it with 1 fait, and ftrain it off. Glaffe, 125. To make Gravy. As gravy is not always to be procured, efpecially by thofe I who live remote from large towns, in fuch cafes the follovv- | ing dire&ions may be ufeful: When your meat comes from ? the butcher’s, take a piece of beef, veal, and mutton, and cut : them into fmall pieces. Take a large deep fauce-pan, with a r cover, lay your beef at bottom, then your mutton, then a very V tittle piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, f whole black and white pepper, a large onion cut in flices, a ■ bundle of fweet herbs, and then lay in your veal. Cover it clofe over a flow fire for fix or feven minutes, and fhake the :i fauce-pan often ; then duft fome flour into it, and pour in boil- ing water till the meat is fomething more than covered. Cover U it clofe again, and let it flew till it is rich and good. Then fea- fon it to your tafte with fait, and ftrain it off; when you will liave a gravy that will anfwet mod purpofes. Farley, 137. P Gravy