Soups without Meat. 205 lettuce, cut fmall, which mud be fried in butter, and well mixed with the broth. Raffald, 12. Another way. Boil a quart of old green peas in a quart of water, till they are as tender as pap, then drain them through a fieve, and boil a quart of young peas in that water. In the mean time put the old peas into a fieve, pour half a pound of melted but- , ter over them, and drain them through a fieve with the back of a fpoon, till you have got all the pulp. When the young ■ peas are boiled enough, add the pulp and butter to the young : peas and liquor ; dir them together till they are fmooth, and : feafon with pepper and fait. You may fry a French roll, and let it fwim in the difh. If you like it, boil a bundle of mint in the peas. Glajfe, 153. Mrs. Majon, page 204, has the fame receipt in different words. Onion Soup. Brown half a pound of butter with a little flour; take care it does not burn. When it has done hiding, (lice a dozen of large white onions, fry them very gently till they are tender; then pour to them, by degrees, two quarts of boiling water, fltaking the pan well round as it is poured in ; add alfo a crufl of bread. Let it boil gently for half an hour ; feafon it with pepper and fait. Take the top of a French roll, and dry it at the fire; put it into a fauce-pan with fome of the foup to foak it; then put it into the tureen. Let the foup boil fome time after the onions are tender, as it gives the foup a great richnefs ; drain it off, and pour it upon the French roll. Majon, 203. Eel Soup. Take a pound of eels, which will make a pint of good foup, or any greater quantity of eels, in proportion to the quantity of foup you intend to make. To every pound of eels, put a quart of water, a crud of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Cover them clofe, and let them boil till half the liquor is waded ; then drain it, and toad fome bread ; cut it fmall, lay the bread into your difh, and pour in the foup. If you have a dew-hole, fet the difh over it for a minute, and fend it to table. If you find your foup not rich enough, you may let it boil till it is as thick as you would have it. You may add a piece of carrot to brown it. Farley, 167.