Made Difloes of Poultry, &c. 142 A Fowl d-la-braze. Skewer your fowl as for boiling, with the legs in the body, then lay over it a layer of fat bacon, cut in pretty thin flices, then wrap it round in beet-leaves, then in a caul of veal, and put it into a large fauce-pan with three pints of water, a glafs of Madeira wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, and half a lemon ; (lew it till quite tender, take it up, and fkim off the fat; make your gravy pretty thick with flour and butter, and ftrain it through a hair fieve, and put to it a pint of oyfters, a tea-cupful of thick cream ; keep fhaking your tofling- pan over the fire, and when it has fimmered a little, ferve up your fowl with the bacon, beet-leaves, and caul on, and pour your fauce hot upon it. Garnifh with barberries, or red beet- root. Raffald, 123. Farley, 119. Another way. Trufs your fowl with the legs turned into the belly, feafon it, both infide and out, with beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait; lay a layer of bacon at the bottom of a deep ftew-pan, then a layer of veal, and afterwards the fowl ; then put in an onion, two or three cloves (tuck in a little bundle of fweet herbs, with a piece of carrot ; then put at the top a layer of bacon, another of veal, and a third of beef; cover it clofe, and let it Hand over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in a pint of broth or hot water ; cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour ; afterwards take up your fowl, ftrain the fauce, and after you have fkimmed off the fat, boil it down till it is of a glaze, then put it over the fowl. You may add juft what you pleafe to the fauce. A ragoo of fweetbreads, cocks’-combs, truffles, and morels ; or mufhrooms, with force-meat balls, look very pretty. piaffe, 74. A Fowl with its own gravy. Trufs a fowl for boiling ; lard it through and through with bacon, ham, and parfley ; put it in a pan of much its bignefs, with a little butter, two or three flices of peeled lemon, a faggot, three cloves, fliced onions, and carrots, pepper and fait, a little broth, and a glafs of white wine; flew flowly till done ; fkim