59 . Made Dljhes of Beef To force a Neat's 'Tongue and Udder. Firft parboil the tongue and udder, blanch the tongue, and {lick it with cloves. As for the udder, you mull carefully raife it, and fill it with force-meat made of veal; firft wafh the inlide with the yolk of an egg, then put in the force-meat, tie the ends clofe, and fpit them ; roaft them, and bafte them with butter ; when enough, have a good gravy in the difh, and fweet fauce in a cup. N. B. For variety, you may lard the udder. GlaJJ'e, 43. Far-’ ley, 96. To pot Neats’ Tongues, Take a neat’s tongue, and rub it with an Ounce of faltpetre and four ounces of brown fugar, and let it lie two days; then boil it till it is quite tender, and take off theikin and fide bits, then cut the tongue in very thin dices, and beat it in a marble mortar, with one pound of clarified butter, mace, pepper and fait to your tafte ; beat it exceeding fine, then put it clofe down into fmall potting pots, and pour clarified butter over them. Raffald, 296. Bouillis des tendrons de Beeuf aux cbaux—Hodge Bodge of Beef with Savoys. Provide a piece of the middlemoft part of brifket beef, of about fix pounds, cut it in fquare pieces fo as to make ten or twelve of it ; don’t put it into too large a pot, but fuch a one as will be full with a gallon of water to it; take care to fkim it well, and feafon it well with onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, and a little bundle of parfley, and fome pepper; when your meat is boiled very tender, (train your broth from it, and put it into a foup-pot or (lew-pan ; take another, with ar; ounce, or little more, of butter, melt it, and put in a large fpoonful of flour, ftir it over the fire till it becomes brown, take the fat off your broth and put to it • boil it a few minutes, and (train to your beef; your favoys fhould be well blanched, and tied up feparate ; put them into your meat, and let it (tew very gently till your dinner is called; take it off, and clean all from the fpit, place your meat in neat order in your difh, or foup-difh, lay your favoys between, pour your foup or faqce over it, and ferve it up with a