PoJJetSy Gruels, JVhite-pots, &c. 34S Lemonade. Take two Seville oranges and fix lemons, pare them very thin, ftcep the parings four hours in two quarts of water ; put the juice of fix oranges and twelve lemons upon twelve ounces of fine fu- gar; when the fugar is melted, put the water to it. Add a little orange-flower water, and more fugar, if neceflary. Pafs it through a bag till it is fine. Goofeberry Fool. Set two quarts of goofeberries on the fire in about a quart of ' water. When they begin to fimmer, turn yellow, and begin to plump, throw them into a cullender to drain the water out ; then with the back of a fpoon carefully fqueeze the pulp through a fieve into a difli $ make them pretty fweet, and let them ftand till they are cold. In the mean time, take two quarts of milk, and the yolks of four eggs, beat up with a little grated nutmeg; ftir it foftly over a flow fire. When it begins to fimmer, take it off, and by degrees ftir it into the goofeberries. Let it ftand till it is cold, and ferve it up. If you make it with cream, you need not put any eggs in. GlaJJ'e, 159. Mafon, 452. To mull Wine. Grate half a nutmeg into a pint of wine, and fweeten it to your tafte with loaf-fugar; fet it over the fire, and when it boils, take it off to cool; take the yolks of four eggs well beaten, add to them a little cold wine; then mix them carefully with your hot wine, a little at a time; then pour it backwards and forwards feveral times, till it looks fine and bright; then fet it on the fire, and beat it a little at a time for feveral times, till it is quite hot, and pretty thick, and pour it backwards and for- wards feveral times ; then fend it in chocolate-cups, and ferve it up with dry toaft cut in long narrow pieces. Rajfald, 311. ? 7 Syrup of Orange-peel. Cut two ounces of Seville orange-peel very fmall, put it in a pint and a quarter of white wine ; ftrain it off, and boil it up with two pounds of double-refined fugar. Syrup of Maidenhair. This plant is faid to grow in Cornwall, but what is ufed in England comes principally from abroad ; it is faid the beft comes from Canada. The proportion is one ounce of the dried leaves infufed in half a pint of boiling water; keep it on an afhes-fire from one day to another, fift it in a napkin, and mix it with a pound and a quarter of fugar ; keep it in a warm place fomc | time