5^ Made Difloes of Beef. little vinegar, a few crumbs of bread or rafpings, a little cullis and broth, a little fait and pepper; boil all together a little, then put the tongue in it to dimmer for a quarter of an hour. When you ferve, add a little milliard. Dalrymple, 51. To force a Neat’s Tongue. Boil it till it is tender; let it ftand till it is cold, then cut a hole at the root end of it, take out fome of the meat, chop it with as much beef fuet, a few pippins, fome pepper and fait, a little mace beat, fome nutmeg, a few dweet herbs, and the yolks of two eggs ; beat all together well in a marble mortar ; (tuff it, cover the end with a veal caul, or buttered paper, road: it, bade it with butter, and dilh it up. Have for fauce good gravy, a little, melted butter, the juice of an orange or lemon, and fome grated nutmeg; boil it up, and pour it into the dilh. To marinade Neats’ Tongues. Boil them till tender, and peel them ; when cold, put them into a veffel that will hold them at full length ; make a pickle of white-wine vinegar (as much as will fill thevelfel) fome nut- megs, ginger fliced, mace, whole cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, confiding of parlley, fweet marjoram, fage, winter favory, thyme, and bay-leaves; boil them well. When cold, put them to the tongues, with fome fait and diced lemon ; clofe them up. Serve them in dices in fome of the liquor. They may be larded, if agreeable. Mafon, 133. A Neat’s Tongue en Crepine—A Neat’s Tongue in Veal Caul. Boil a tongue diffidently to peel; then lard and fplit it with- out feparating it in two; dice fome onions, fry them in hog’s lard ; put to it three or four fpoonfuls of hog’s blood, about a quarter of a pound of frelh lard chopped, a few fpices, and fait; • dimmer it, dirri'ng it continually till the blood is well mixed; then lay a caul in the bottom of your difll, and fpread upon it part of your preparation, then the tongue, then the fame as be- fore on the tongue; roll it up in the caul, and garnifh it with bread-crumbs ; put it in the oven to bake, and take a good co- lour ; clean the dilh free from fat, and ferve it under a fauce made with cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. Clermont, 53. To