rfhe Family Fhyftcian. 377 To prevent it, violent cold and fudden heat mud: be equally avoided.. When the parts begin to look red and fwell, the pa- tient ought to be purged, and to have the affe£ted parts rubbed frequently with muftard and brandy, or fomething of a warming nature. They ought likewife to be covered with flannel, and kept warm and dry. Some apply warm alhes betwixt cloth to the fwelled parts, which frequently help to reduce them-. When there is a lore, it mult be drefled with Turner’s cerate, the ointment of tutty, the plalter of cerus, or fome other drying ointment. Thefe fores are indeed troublefome, but feldom dan- gerous. They generally heal as foon as the warm weather fets in. Buchan. Coftivenefs. Coftivenefs is increafed by keeping the body too warm, and by every thing that promotes the perfpiration ; as wearing flan- nel, lying too long in bed, &c. Intenfe thought, and a leden- tary life, are likewife hurtful. All the fecretions and excretions are promoted by moderate exercifc without doors, and by a gay, j cheerful, fprightly temper of mind. Thofe who are troubled with coftivenefs, ought, if poftible, to remedy it by diet, as the conftant ufe of medicines for that pur- pofe is amended with many inconveniencies, and often with bad Confequenc’es. I never knew any one get into a habit of taking medicine for keeping the body open, who could leave it off. In time, the cuftom becomes neceffary ; and generally ends in a to- tal relaxation of the bowels, indigeftion, lofs of appetite, wafting of the ftrength, and death. When the body cannot be kept open without medicine, I would recommend gentle dofes of rhubarb to be taken twice or thrice a week. This is not near fo injurious to the ftomach, as aloes, jalap, or the other draftic purgatives fo much in ufe. In- fufions of fenna and manna may likewife be taken, or half an ounce of foluble tartar dilfolved in water gruel. About the fize of a nutmeg of lenitive eleftuary, taken twice or thrice a day, generally anfwers the purpofe very well. Common Cough. A cough is generally the effe£t of a cold, which has either been improperly treated, or entirely negletted. When it proves ob- ftmate, there is always reafon to fear the confequenccs, as this fhews a weak ftate of the lungs, and is often the fore-runner of a confumption. When the cough is not attended with any degree of fever, J| j and