Of Collaring. 299 of white wine vinegar ; when it is cold put in the collar, and when fent to table, cut it in flices. To Collar a Pig. Your pig being killed, and the hair drafted off, draw out the entrails, and wa(h it clean; rip it open with a fharp knife, and take out all the bones; then rub it all over with pepper and fait beaten fine, a few fage-leaves, and fvveet herbs chopped Imall; then roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet. Fill your boiler with foft water, a pint of vinegar, a handful of fait, eight or ten cloves, a blade or two of mace, a few pepper-corns, and a bunch of fweet herbs. When it boils, put in your pig and boil it till it is tender, then take it up, and, when it is almoft cold, bind it over again, and put it into an earthen pot; then pour the liquor your pig was boiled in upon it, keep it covered, and it is fit for ufe. Mafon, 186. To collar Venifon. Bone a fide of venifon, and take away all the finews, and cut it into fquare collops of what fize you pleafe. It will make two or three collars. Lard it with fat clear bacon, and cut your lards as big as the top of your finger, and three or four inches long. Seafon your venifon with pepper, fait, cloves, and nut- meg. Roll up your collars, and tie them clofe with coarfe tape ; then put them into deep pots, with feafonings at the bottoms, fome frefh butter, and three or four bay-leaves. Then put in the reft, with fome feafoning and butter on the top, and over that fome beef-fuet, finely thred and beaten. Then cover up your pots with coarfe pafte, and bake them four or five hours. . After that, take them out of the oven, and let them ftand a little ; take out your venifon, and let it drain well from the gravy ; add more butter to the fat, and fet it over a gentle fire to clarify. Then take it off, and let it ftand a little, andfkim it well. Make your pots clean, or have pots ready fit for each collar. Put a little feafoning, and fome of your clarified butter at the bottom ; then put in your venifon, and fill up your pots with clarified butter, and be fure that your butter be an inch above the meat. When it is thoroughly cold, tie it down with double paper, and lay a tile on the top; they will keep fix or eight months; and you may, when you ufe a pot, put it for a minute into boiling water, and it will come out whole. Let it ftand till it is cold, (tick it round with bay-leaves, and a fprig at the top. parley, 257. To