434 Fhe Family Phyficlan. When frefii butter has not been falted in proper time, or when fait butter has become rancid or mufty, after melting and feum- ming it, dip in a cruft of bread well toafted on both fules, and at the end of a minute or two the butter will lofe its difagree- abld odour, but the bread will be found foetid. CORNS AND TEETH. A Remedy for Corns on the Feet. Roaft a clove of garlic, or an onion, on a live coal, or in hot allies \ apply it to the corn, and fallen it on with a piece of cloth. This foftens the corn to fuch a degree, as to loofen and wholly remove it in two or three days. Foment the corn every other night in warm water, after which renew the application. The fame intention will be yet more elFetftually anfwered by applying to the corn a bit of the plafter of Diachylon with the gums, fpread on a finall piece of linen ; removing it occafionally to foment the corn with warm water, and pare olf the foftened part with a penknife. Fo clean the Feeth and Gums, and make the Fief grozv clofe to the Root of the Enamel. Take one ounce of myrrh, in fine powder, two fpoonfuls of the bell white honey, and a little green fage in fine powder ; mix them well together, and rub the teeth and gums with a little of this balfam every night and morning. Fo Jlrengthen the Gums, and fafien loofe Feelh. Diftolve an ounce of myrrh as much as pofiible in half a pint of red wine and the fame quantity of oil of almonds : walft the mouth with this fluid every morning. This is alfo an excellent remedy againft worms in the teeth. A fure prefervative from the Footh-ach. After having waihed your mouth with water, as cleanlinefs, and indeed health, requires, you Ihould every morning rince the mouth with a tea-fpoonful of lavender-water mixed with an eqtial quantity of warm or cold water, whichever you like bell, to diminilh its adlivity. This limple and innocent remedy is a certain prefervative, the fuccefs of which lias been confirmed by long experience. A Powder to clean the F'eeth. Take dragon’s blood and cinnamon, of each one ounce and an half, burnt allum, or cream of tartar, one ounce ; beat all to- gether into a very- fine powder, and rub a little on the teeth every other day. The