Of Potting. 29J U 4 the * as much good butter over them as will cover them, and clarified as above.& They mull be baked half an hour in a quick oven, if a flow oven longer, till they are enough, but of that you muff judge by the fize of the eels. With a fork take them out, and lay&them on a coarfe cloth to drain. When they are quite cold, feafon them again with the fame feafoning, and lay them in the pot clofe ; then take off the butter they were baked in clear from the gravy of the fifh, and fet it in a difh before the fire. When, it is melted, pour the clear butter over the eels, and let them be covered with the butter. N. B. In the fame manner you may pot what you pleafe. You may bone your eels, if you chufe it, but then do not put in any fal prunella. Glajfe, 237. Farley, 265. To pot Chars. Cleanfe your chars, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins ; lay them in rows in a long baking pan, and cover them with butter. When they are enough, take them out with a fork, and lay them on a coarfe cloth to drain. When they are quite cold, feafon them well, and lay them clofe in the pot; then take off the but- ter they were baked in clear from the gravy of the fifh, and fet it in a difh before the fire. When it is melted, pour the clari- fied butter over the char, and let them be coyered with it. T7 pot Veal. Take a fillet of veal, cut it into three or four pieces, feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little mace; put it into pots with half a pound of butter ; tie a paper over it, fet it in an hot oven, and bake it three hour#, When you take it out, cut off all the out- fldes, then put the veal into a marble mortar, and beat it with the fat from your gravy ; then oil a pound of frefh butter, and put it in, a little at a time, and keep beating it till you fee it is like a fine pafle; then put it clofe down into your potting-pots, put a paper upon it, and fet on a weight to prefs it hard. When your veal is cold and ftiff, pour over it clarified butter the thick;- nefs of a crown piece, and tie it down. RaffaU, 296. To pot Salmon. Scale, wafh, and dry a falmon that is quite frefh ; flit it up the back, and take out the bone; mix feme grated nutmeg, mace, pepper, and fait, and ftrew over the fifh ; let it 'lie for two or three hours, then lay it in a large pot, and put to it half a pound of butter; put it in an oven, and let it bake an hour. When it is done, lay it on fomething flat, that the oil may run from it; then cut it to the fize of the pots it is to be put in, lay