i. * Gravies and Broths. 211 boil the fcrag in about four quarts of water. Skim it well, and put in a little bundle of fweet herbs* an onion, and a good cruft of bread. Having boiled this an hour, put in the other part of the mutton, a turnip or two, fome dried marigolds, a few chives chopped fine, and a little parfley chopped fmall. Put thefe in. about a quarter of an hour before your broth is enough, and fea- fon it with fait. You may, if you choofe it, put in a quarter of a pound of barley or rice at firft. Some like it thickened with oat- meal, and fome with bread, and fome have it feafoned with mace, inftead of fweet herbs and onion ; but thefe are mere matters of fancy, on which the difference of palates muft determine. If you ufe turnips for fauce, do not boil them all in the pot with the meat, but fome of them in a fauce-pan, by themfelves, other- wife the broth will tafte too ftrong of them. Farley, 150.6 j From Glajfe, 132. Another way. Boil a fcrag of mutton in between three and four quarts of I water; fkim it as foon as it boils, and put to it a carrot, a tur- nip, a cruft of bread, an onion, and a fmall bundle of herbs ; let thefe flew. Put in the other part of the neck, that it may be boiled tender ; when enough, take out the mutton, and ftrain i the broth. Put in the mutton again, with a few dried mari- li golds, chives, or young onions, and a little parfley chopped ; boil : thefe about a quarter of an hour. The broth and mutton may be ferved together in a tureen ; or the meat in a feparate difh. i Do*not fend up the fcrag, unlefs particularly liked. Some do J not like herbs: the broth muft then be drained off; Send up i mafhed turnips in a little difh. The broth may be thickened (j either with crumbs of bread or oatmeal. Majon. Veal Broth. Take a knuckle of veal, flew it in about a gallon of wa- , rer, two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little fait, and a blade of mace. Scotch Barley Broth. Chop a leg of beef all to pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, with a piece of carrot, and a cruft of bread, till it is j half boiled away ; then ftrain it off, and put it into the pot again with half a pound of barley, four or five heads of celery : wafhed clean and cut fmall, a large onion, a bundle of fweet •J herbs, a little parlley chopped fmall, and a few marigolds; Let >Ut boil an hour, lake an old cock, or a large, fowl, clean ■* picked and wafiled, and put it into the pot, boil it till the broth