Made Difloes of Poultry, &c. 141 A Fowl white pepper, and mace pounded, a little mufhroom-powder or catchup ; fimraer it up. Oyders may be added. Mafon, 261. 'To roajl a Fowl with Ghefnuts. Firft take fome chefnuts, roafl them very carefully, fo as not to burn them ; take off the (kin, and peel them; take about a dozen of them cut fmall, and bruife them in a mortar ; parboil the liver of the fowl, bruife it, cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it; then mix them all together, with a good deal of parfley chopped fmall, a little fweet herbs, fome mace, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; mix thefe together, and put into your fowl, and road: it. The bed way of doing it is to Jtie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to road with a dring, and bade it with butter. For fauce—take the red of the chef- nuts, peeled and ikinned, put them into fome good gravy, with a little white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then take your fowl, lay it in the difh, and pour in the fauce. Garnilh with lemon, Glaffe, 75. Mrs. Mafon gives the above receipt, differently expreffed, page 263. To force a Fowl with a Ragoo of Oyjlers. Prepare a force-meat, to which add a dozen oyders, duff the craw; cover the bread of the fowl with bacon diced, then a lheet of paper, road it ; take fome cullis, or good gravy, put in the oyders, with their liquor drained, a little mufhroom powder or catchup, lemon-juice, thicken it with flour ; add chyan and fait, if wanted, boil it up. When the fowl is done, take oft' the bacon. Serve the fauce in the difh. This fauce is proper for any roaded fowls or chickens. A Fozvl with a fharp Sauce. rrufs a fowl for roading; make a force-meat with fcraped lard or butter, a little tarragon, chervil, burnet, garden-crefs, pep- per, fait, and the yolks of two or three eggs ^ duff the fowl with it, make a fauce with a little cullis, a few of the above herbs pounded, two anchovies, and a few capers. When done, drain it, then add a little more cullis, and a little mudard, pepper, and fa t; warm, without boiling, and ferve with your roaded fowl. Dalrymplc, 214.