/ 26 \ Of Boiling. tic them round with a firing, finge and dufl them well with flour, put them in a kettle of cold water, cover it dofe, and fet ’it on the fire; when the fcurn begins to rife, take it off; put on your emer, and let them boil very flowly twenty minutes ; take them off, cover them clqfe, and the heat' of the water will flew them enough in half an hour ; it keeps the fkin whole, and they will be both whiter and plumper than if they had boiled faff. When you take them up, drain them, and pour over them white iauce, or melted butter. Rciffcildt 63. Farley^ 19. To make Sauce for Fowls. Boil any bones or bits of veal, with a fmall bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, a (lice of lemon, a few white pepper corns, and a little celery ; drain it; there fhould be near half a pint • put to it fome good cream, with a little flour mixed fmooth in it, a good piece of butter, a little pounded mace, and fome fait; keep it ftirring ; add mufhrooms, or a little lemon juice. s . Mafon, 326. To boil a Turkey. Make a fluffing with grated bread, oyflers chopped, grated lemon peel, pepper, fait, nutmeg; about four ounces of butter, or fuet chopped, a little cream, yolks of eggs to make it a light fluffing ; fill the craw ; if any is left, make it into balls ; flour the turkey, put it into water while cold ; take off the feum as it rifes, and let it boil gently. A middling turkey will take about an hour. Boil the balls, lay them round it, with oyfter fauce in the difh, and in a boat. The fluffing may be made without oyflers, or it may be fluffed with forced-meat, or fau- fage meat, mixed with a few crumbs of bread and yolks of eggs, if oyflers are not to be had, white celery fauce is very good, or white fauce. Mafon, 257. A little turkey will be done in an hour; a large one in an hour and an half. Glajfe, 9. Another zvay to boil a Turkey. Let your turkey have no food the day before you kill it. When you are going to kill it, give it a fpoontul of allegar ; it will make it white, and eat tender. When you have killed it, hang