Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. 169 To Pheafants a-la-braife. Having put a layer of beef all over your pan, a layer of veal, a little piece of bacon, a piece of carrot, an onion ftuck with' cloves, a blade or two of mace, a fpoonful of pepper, black and white, and a bundle of fweet herbs, lay in the pheafant. Then lay a layer of beef, and a layer of veal, to cover it. Set it on the fire for five or fix minutes, and then pour in two quarts of boiling gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it (few very foftly an hour and a half. Then take tip your pheafant, and keep it hot. Let the gravy boil till it is reduced to about a pint, and then (train it off and put it in again. Put in a veal fvveetbread, firft being ftevved with the pheafant. Then put in fome truffles and mo- rels, fome livers of fowls, artichoke bottoms, and afparagus tops, if you have them. Let thefe fimmer in the gravy about five or fix minutes, and then add two fpoonfuls of catchup, two of red wine, and a little piece of butter rolled in flour, with a fpoonful of browning. Shake all together, put in your pheafant, let them (few all together, with a few muftirooms, about five or fix minutes more; then take up your pheafant, and pour your ragoo all over, with a few force-meat balls. Garnifh with le- mon. You may lard it, if you think proper fo to do. Glaffc, 98. Mafon, 306. Farley, 129, Pheafants a-la-Mongelas. Provide a large pheafant, cut off the pinions as to roaft, and make a good force-meat ; put it into your pheafant and fpit it, with fome lards of bacon and paper ; take care you roaft it nice- ly, and prepare your fauce as follows :—take fome fat livers of turkies or fowls, blanch them till thoroughly done, and pound them to a pafte; put to fome gravy and cullis, mix it well together, and pafs it through an etamine; cut off the fleflt of the pheafant, (lice it very thin and put to it, aftd preferve the carcafe hot; add to your fauce, which fhould be about the thicknefs of your cullis, a little pepper, fait, fome minced parfley, and the juice of two or three oranges ; and, if you approve of it, you may (trip a few morfcls of the orange-peel in, and ferve it up with the hath poured over the breaft, and garnifli with fome oranges in quarters. Verral, 88.