Made Difhes of Beef it all over in rows till it is larded all round, it will look like red, — rinaded and roafted, with bacon over it, and the fame fort of fauces. Berra/, 84. A Porcupine of the flat Ribs of Beef. Bone the flat ribs, and beat it half an hour with a pafle pin, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, drew over it bread- crumbs, parfley, leeks, fweet marjoram, lemon-peel fhred fine; nutmeg, pepper and fait; roll it up very clofe, and bind it hard; lard it acrofs with bacon ; then a row of cold boiled tongue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row of lemon-peel; do green, white* and yellow dice; then fplit it or put it in a deep pot with a pint of water* lay over the caul of veal to keep it from fcorching, tie it down with ftrong paper, and fend it to the oven. When it comes out. fkim off the fat, and ftrain your gravy into a fauce-pan ; add to it two fpoonfuls of red wine, the fame of browning, one of mufhroom catchup, half a lemon, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, difh up the meat, and pour the gravy on the difh ; lay round force-meat balls. Garnifh wdth horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. Rajfald, 116. I P'o bake a Leg of Beef. Take a large deep pan, and lay your beef at the bottom; then put in a little piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, black and white whole pepper, a large onion cot in flices, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Pour in water till the meat be covered, and fend it to the oven covered up. When it is baked, ftrain it through a coarfe fieve; take out all the finew'S and fat, and put them into a fauce-pan with a few fpoonfuls of the gravy, a little red wine, a fmall piece of butter rolled in flour, and fome muftard ; fhake your fauce-pan often, and when the fauce is hot and thick, difh it up, and fend it to table. Mafon, 121. drefs a Fillet of Beef It is the infide of the firloin. You muft carefully cut it all out from the bone, grate fome nutmeg over it, a few crumbs of bread, a little pepper and fait, a little lemon-peel,.a little thyme, fome