The Family Bhyftcian. 3S9 The Bleeding and Blind Biles. A difcharge of blood from the hoemorrhoidal veflels, is called the bleeding piles. When the velTels only fvvell, and difcharge no blood, but are exceeding painful, the dileafe is called the blind piles. A flux of blood from the anus is not always to be treated as a difeafe. It is even more falutary than bleeding at the nofe, and often prevents or'carries off difeafes. It is peculiarly beneficial in the gout, rheumatifm, afthma, and hypochondriacal complaints; and often proves critical in colics and inflammatory fevers. In the management of the patient, regard rnuft^be had to his habit of body, his age, flrength, and manner of living. A dif- charge which might be exceflive, and prove hurtful to one, may- be very moderate, and even falutary to another. That only is to be efteemed dangerous which continues too long, and is in fuch quantity as to wade the patient’s flrength, hurt digeftion, nutrition, and other functions neceflary to life. When this is'the cafe, the difcharge mult be checked by a proper regimen., and aftringent medicines. The diet muft.be- cool, but nourifhing, confiding chiefly of bread, milk, cooling vegetables, and broths. The drink may be chalybeate water, orange whey, defcoftions or infuflons of the aftringent and muci- laginous plants, as the tormentil root, biftort, the marfh-mallow. roots, &c. The Peruvian bark is likewife proper in’this cafe, both as a firengthener and aftringent : half a drachm of it may be taken in a glals of red wine, fharpened with a few drops of the elixir of vitriol, three or four times a-day. The bleeding piles are fometimes periodical, and return jegu-i larly once a month, or once in three weeks. In this cafe they are always to be confldered as a falutary difcharge, and by no means to be flopped. Some have entirely ruined their health by flopping a periodical difcharge of blood from the hoemorrhoidal veins. In the blind piles, bleeding is generally of ufe. The diet mtifl: be light and thin, and the drink cool and diluting. It is like- ■wife neceflary that the body be kept gently open. This may- be done by fmall dofes -of the flowers of brimftone and cream of tartar. They may be mixed' in equap quantities, and a ;tea- fpoonful taken two or three times a-day, or oftener if neceflary. Or an ounce of the flowers of brimftone, and half an ounce of. purified nitre, may be mixed with three or four ounces of the . Cc 3 ( lenitive