The Family Phyjician. 435 The following Powder will be found an excellent Preferver, as zvell as Cleaner, of the Teeth ; it likewife makes them very white. Take pumice-ftone prepared, fealed earth, andred coral pre- pared, of each an ounce ; dragon’s-blood, half an ounce ; cream of tartar, an ounce and an half; cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; and cloves, a fcruple. Beat the whole together into a powder. WATERS. A Receipt to make the genuine Hungary Water. Put into an alembic a.pound and an half of belli picked rofe- mary flowers ; pennyroyal and marjoram flowers, of each half a pound ; three quarts of good Coniac brandy ; having clofe Hop- ped the mouth of the alembic to prevent the fpirit from evapo- rating, bury it twenty-eight hours in horfe-dung to digeft, and then diftil off the fpirit in a water-bath. A drachm of Hungary-water diluted with fpring-water, may be taken once or twice a week in the morning falling. It is alfo ufed by way of embrocation to bathe the face and limbs, or any part affl£ted with pains or debility. This remedy recruits the llrength, difpels gloominefs, and ftrengthens the light. It mult always he ufed cold, whether taken inwardly as a medicine, or applied externally. To make Rofe-Water. To make an excellent rofe-water, let the flowers be gathered two or three hours after fun-rifing in very fine weather ; beat them in a marble mortar into a palle, and leave them in the mortar foaking in their juice, for five or fix hours ; then put the mafs into a coarfe canvas bag, and prefs out the juice ; to every quart of which add a pound of frelli damafle rofes, and let them Hand in inkifion tor twenty-four hours. Then put the whole into a glafs alembic, lute on a head and receiver, and place it on a fand heat. Diftil at firlt with a gentle fire, which is to be increafed gradually till the drops follow each other as quick as poflible; draw off the water as long as it continues to run clear, then put out the fire, and let the alembic Hand till cold. The difhlled water at firfl will have very little fragrancy, but after be- ing expofed to the heat of the fun about eight days, in a bottle lightly flopped with -a bit of paper, it acquires an admirable feent. Rofe-water is an excellent lotion for the eyes, if ufed every morning, and makes a part in collyriums preferibed for inflam- F f 2