The Family Fhyjician. 4°5 Dd 5 In perfons of a full habit, who abound with blood, or other humours, the head-ach often proceeds from the'fiipprelfion of cultomary evacuations; as bleeding at the nofe, fweating of the feet, &c. Alfo coldnefs of the extremities, or hanging down the head for a long time. Whatever prevents the return of the blood from the head, will likewife occafion a head-ach ; as look- ing long obliquely at any object, or wearing any thing tight about the neck, Sometimes the head-ach proceeds from the repulfion or re- trocdTion of the gout, the eryfipelas, the fmall-pox, mealies, itch, or other eruptive difeafes. Inanition, or emptinefs, will alfo occafion head-achs. Nurfes who give fuck too long, or who do not take a fufficient quantity of folid food. There is likewife a mod violent, fixed, conftant, and almofl: intolerable head-ach, which occafions great debility both of body and mind, prevents deep, deftroys the appetite, caufes a vertigo, dimnefs of light, a noife in the ears, convullions, epileptic fits, and fometimes vomiting, coltivenefs, coldnefs of the extremi- ties, &c. When a head-ach attends an acute fever, with pale urine, it is an unfavourable fymptom. In exceffive head-achs, coldnefs of the extremities is a bad fign. When the difeafe continues long, and is very violent, it often terminates in blindnefs, an apoplexy, deafnefs, a vertigo, the palfy, epilepfy, &c. In this difeafe the cool regimen in general is to be obferved. The diet ought to confift of fuch emollient fubftances as wilL correft the acrimony of the humours, and keep the body open ; as apples boiled in milk, fpinach, turnips, and fuch like. The .drink ought to be diluting; fuch as barley-water. The patient ought as much as poflible to keep in an eredl pofture, and not to lie with his head too low. When the head-ach is owing to excefs of blood, or an hot bilious conllitution, bleeding is neceffary. The patient may be bled in the jugular vein, and the operation repeated it there be occafion. Cupping alfo, or the application of leeches to the temples, and behind the ears, will be of fervice. Afterwards a bliltering-plader may be applied lo the neck, behind the ears, or to any part of the head that is molt affecSled. In fome cales it will be,proper to blifler the whole head. In perfons of a grofs habit, ilfues or perpetual blilters will be of fcrvice. The body ought likewife to be kept open by gentle laxatives. When the head-ach is occalioned by the Itoppage of a running