Of Fijh. ' 223 rinade, put it into fome long ftew-pan juft its bignefs, if you can, with a fifh-plate or napkin under it, that you may take it out without breaking ; put to it a pint of white wine, a dafh of vinegar, fome fweet balil and thyme, whole pepper, fait, and mace, two or three (ballots, a bunch of parfley and green onions ; pour in as much water as will juft cover it, let your lid be (hut ; clofe upon it, and, about an hour before your dinner, put it over a (low ftove, to fimmer, and prepare your fauce as follows :— Provide as- many fmall prawns or (hrimps (the tails only) as you think neceflary for your piece of falmon ; put into your ftew-pan to them a proportionate quantity of cullis ; add to it a little bafil, pimpernel, thyme, and parfley, all minced very : fine, with a dafti of white wine. Boil all about a quarter of an hour, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon or two. Take care that the di(h is well drained, and put meat into your di(h. Pour j your fauce over, and ferve it up. Garnifh with lemons cut in : quarters. Trouts may be done in the fame manner. Verrai, 35. Hqflets of Salmon. Cut the falmon in middling pieces; feafon them with fweet herbs, pepper, and fait, mixed with butter, and the yolk of a raw egg or two ; (kewer them like haflets, with all the feafon- ing: ftrew them with bread-crumbs, and either roaft or boil them, bafting with oil or butter. When they are done of a M good colour, ferve dry, with what fauce you think proper in a boat. Clermont, 361. Salmon with fweet herbs. Take a piece of butter, and mix it with chopped parfley, fhallots, fweet herbs, mu(hrooms, pepper, and fait; put fome of this in the bottom of the difti you intend for table, then fome thin dices of falmon upon it, and the remainder of the butter and herbs upon the falmon; ftrew it over with bread crumbs, i and bade it with butter; bake it in the oven.- When it is done, drain the fat from it, and ferve with a clear reliftiing fauce. Dalrymple, 294. To drefs dried Salmon. Lay your dried falmon in foak for two or three hours, then lay it on the gridiron, and (hake a little pepper over it. To drefs a Jowl of Pickled Salmon. Lay your falmon in frefh water all night, then lay it in a (ifh- plate, put it into a large ftew-pan, feafon it with a little whole 1 PePPer> a blade or two of mace tied in a coarfe muflin rag, a whole