Of iLatts, Cujiards, and Cheefecakes. 305 5s much tincture of faffron as will give them a high colour, but no currants. This we call a Saffron Cheefecake. Glaffe, 287. Almond Cheefecakes. Take four ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch them, and put them into cold water, beat them with rofe-water in a marble mortar, or wooden bowl, with a wooden peftle ; put to it four ounces of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs beat fine; work it in the mortar or bowl till it becomes white and frothy ; then make a rich puff-pafte as follows :—take half a pound of flour, a quar- ter of a pound of butter, rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it (liff with a little cold water, then roll your pafte ftraight out, ftrew over a little flour, and lay over it in thin bits one third of your butter ; throw a little more flour over the butter; do fo for three times, then put your pafte in your tins, fill them, and grate fugar over them, and bake them in a gentle oven. Rajfald, 258. Common Cheefecakes. Put a quart of milk on the fire, beat eight eggs well; when the milk boils, ftir them upon the fire till it comes to a curd, then pour it out; when it is cold, put in a little fait, two fpoon- fuls of rofe-water, and three quarters of a pound of currants j put it into puff-pafte, and bake it. M^fon, 395. Lemon Cheefecakes. Boil the peel of two large lemons very tender, then pound it well in a mortar with four or fivd ounces of loaf-fugar, the yolks of fix eggs, half a pound of frelh butter, and a little curd beat fine; pound and mix all together, lay a puff-pafte in your patty- pans, fill them half full, and bake them. Orange Cheefecakes are done the fame way, only you fhould boiL the peel in two or three waters to take out the bitternefs. Bread Cheefecakes. Having fiiced a penny loaf as thin as poflible, pour on it a pint of boiling cream, and let it ftand two hours. Then take eight eggs, half a pound of butter, and a nutmeg grated. Beat them well together, and put in half a pound of currants well wafhed ant ( ried before the fire, and a fpoonful ©f white wine or bran- dy. 1 hen bake them in patty pans or railed cruft. Farley, 308. Cheefecakes the French way, called Rameauins. 1 ake good Parmefan or Chefhire cheefe, melt it in a ftew- pan with a bit of butter, and one or two fpoonfuls of water; then add as much flour as will make it pretty thick, and quit the iides ol the pan ; put it into another pan, and add eggs to it, X one