277 Of Pies. have to (pare, put clofe down in a pot, and cover it up ; but ne- ver put any citron or orange to it till you ufe it. Farley, 216. Mutton and Lamb Pie. Take off the Hein and infide fat of a loin of mutton, cut it into fteaks, feafon them well with pepper and fait; almoft fill the difh with, water; put puff pafte top and bottom. Bake it well. An Olive Pie. Take a fillet of veal, cut it in thin dices, rub the flices over with yolks of eggs; drew over them a few crumbs of bread ; fiired a little lemon-peel very fine, and put it on them, with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and fait; roll them up very tight, and lay them in a pewter difh ; pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones ; put half a pound of butter over it, make'a light pafte, and lay it round the difh ; roll the lid half an inch thick, and lay it on.' A beef olive pie may be made the fame way. Raffald, 158. A Partridge Pie. Singe, draw, and trufs your partridges as for boiling; flatten the bread bones, and make a force-meat with the livers, a piece of butter or feraped lard, pepper, fait, chopped parlley, (ballots, winter favoury, thyme, and fvveet marjoram ; duff the partridges with this, and fry them a little in butter; then put them in a railed crud, upon flices of veal, well feafoned; finifh it as all others. When done, if it is to ferve up hot, add a relifhing lance ; if cold, add fome good jelly broth before it is quite cold. Clermont, 403. Dairy triple, 336. A Pigeon Pie. Cover your difh with a puff-pade crud, let- your pigeons be very nicely picked and cleaned, feafon them with pepper and fait, and put a good piece of frefh butter, with pepper and fait, in their bellies; lay them in your pan ; the necks, gizzards, li- vers, pinions, and hearts, lay between, with the yolk of a hard egg, and beef-dake in the middle; put in as much water as will almoft fill the difh, lay on the top cruft, and bake it well. This, is a very good way to make a pigeon pie; but fome French cooks fill the pigeons with a very high force-meat, and lay force- meat balls round the infide, with afparagus-togs, artichoke-bot- toms, mufhrooms, truffles, and morels, and feafon high. A Chefhire Pork Pie. Having fkinned a loin of pork, cut it into fteaks; feafon it with fait, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good cruft, lay a layer T 3 of