101 Male Di/hes of Mutton. tear each flieet into five pieces, and draw them through your hand, light one piece, and hold it under the bottom of the difh, moving the paper about as fall as the paper burns ; light another till all is burnt, and your meat will be enough. Fifteen mi- nutes juft does it. Send it to table hot in the difh. N. B. This difh was firft contrived by Mr. Rich, and is much admired by the nobility. GlafJ'e. ■ To drefs a Neck of Mutton like Venifon. Cut a large neck before the Ihoulder is taken off, broader than ufual, and the flap of the fhoulder with it, to make it look hand- ii fomer; flick your neck all over in little holes with a fharp pen- knife, and pour a little red wine^ipon it, and let it lie in the jwine four or five days ; turn and rub it three or four times a day, then take it out and hang it up for three days in the open air out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth to keep it from mulling; when you roaft it, bafte it with the wine it was fteeped in, if any is left \ if not, frefh wine; put white paper three or four folds to keep in the fat, roafl it thoroughly, and then take loft the fkin, and froth it nicely, and ferve it up. Neck of Mutton larded with Ham and Anchovies. • Lard the fillet of a neck of mutton quite through with ham and anchovies, firft rolled in chopped parfley, fhallots, fweet herbs, pepper and fait; then put it to braze or flew in a little Koth, with a glafs of white wine ; when done fift and fleim the fauce, and add a little cullis to give it a proper confidence; add the juice of half a lemon, and ferve it upon the neck of mutton. Dalrymple, 123. To drefs a Neck of Mutton. Lard it with lemon-peel cut thin in fmall lengths, boil it iif fait and water, with a bunch of l'weet herbs and an onion ftuck wuh cloves ; when it is boiled, have ready for fauce a pint of oyfters ftewed in their own liquor, as much veal gravy, two an- . hovies difl'olved and ftrained into it, and the yolks of two eggs 3eat up in a little of the gravy; mix thefe together till they come to a proper thicknefs, and put it over the meat, Mcifon, 166. h3 * d Baffin