3*6 Candying and Drying, ftrong of fugar, and keep it hot a good while, but without boil- ing. After it is heated a good while, lay it upon a pie-plate, and fo let it dry ; keep it near the fire left it diflblve. Glafl'e, 3T1' . Orange Chips. Pare fome of the beft Seville oranges aflant, about a quarter 'of an inch broad, and.if you can keep the parings whole, they will have a prettier effedt. When you have pared as many as you intend, put them into fait and fpring-water for a day or two; then boil them in a large quantity of fpring-water till they are tender, and drain them on a lieve. Have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water and a pound of fine lugar ; boil them, a few at a time, to keep them from breaking, till they look clear ; then put them into a fyrup made of fine loaf-fugar, with as much water as will dilfolve it, and boil them1 to a candy height. When you take them up, lay them on a lieve, and grate double-refined fugar over them. Then put them in a ftove, or before the fire, to dry. Farley, 346. To dry Damafcenes. Gather the Damafcenes when full ripe, lay them on a coarfe cloth, fet them in a very cool oven, let them ftand a day or two; they muft be as dry as a frefh prune ; if they are not, put them in another cool oven for a day or two longer; then take them out; they will eat like frelh damafcenes in the winter. Majon, 436. Raffald, 242. Farley, 347. To candy Cinnamon. Soak fome cinnamon bark in water about twenty-four hours, cut it into pieces of what length you pleafe, and boil a moment in fugar of candy height; drain it and dry it in the ftove upon rails, till it comes to a proper fubftance to put in candy moulds; garniih with fugar, and when it is half cold, put it to dry as the orange-flower candy. Clermont, 542, T0 dry Apricots. Pare and ftone abound of apricots, and put them in your tof- fing pan ; then take a pound of double-refined fugar, pound and fift it, and ftrew a little among your apricots, and lay the reft over them. After letting them ftand twenty-four hours, turn three or four times in the fyrup, then boil them pretty quick till they feem clear. When cold, take them out, and lay them on glades; then turn them every half hour the firft day, the next day every hour, and afterwards as may appear to be necellary. T«