Of Pies. 273 with fweet herbs, pepper, nutmeg, and mace. You fhould then only flit them down, and lay them in the pie. A Codling Pie. Put fome fmall codlings into a clean pan with fpring-water, lay vine-leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth, wrapped round the cover of the pan to keep, in the fleam. As foon as they grow foft, peel them, and put them in the fame water as the vine leaves. Hang them a great height over the fire to green, and when you fee them of a flue colour, take them out of the water, and put them into a deep difh, with as much powder or loaf fugar as will fweeten them. Make the lid of a rich puff pafle, and bake it. When it comes from the oven, take off the lid, and cut it in little pieces, like fippets, and flick them round the infide of the pie, with the points upwards. Then make a good cuftard in the following manner, and pour it over your pie. Boil a pint of cream with a ftick of cinnamon, and fugar enough to make it a little fweet. As foon as it is cold, put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fet it on the fire, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick; but be careful not to let it boil, as that wilL curdle it. Pour this in your pie, pare a little lemon thin, cut the peel like ftraws, and lay it on the top oyer your codlings. Farley, 214. A Devonjloire Squab Pie. Cover the difh with a good cruft, put at the bottom a layer of diced pippins, then a layer of mutton fteaks cut from the loin, well feafonedwith pepper and fait, then another layer of pippins ; peel fome onions, and flice them thin, lay a layer all over the apples, then a layer of mutton, then pippins and onions; pour in a pint of water, clofe your pie, and bake it. Glaffe, 144. A Duck Pie. Take two ducks, fcald them, and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, the pinions, the neck, and head ; pick them all clean, and fcald them. Pick out the fat of the infide, lay a good puff-pafte cruft all over your difh, feafon the ducks both infide and out with pepper and fait, and lay them in your difh, with the giblets at each end properly feafoned. Put in as much water as will almoft fill the pie, and lay on the cruft. Eel Pies. After fkinning and waffling your cels, cut them in pieces of about an inch and an half long, feafon them with pepper, fair, and a little dried fage rubbed fmall ; raife your pies about the fize of the infide of a plate, fill your pies with eels, lay a lid over l them,