then half dry the paper that goes in the in fide, it elofes down better, and then wh te paper over the glafs. Set in your (love, or a dry place. Glafe, 317. To preferve Apricots. Peel ripe apricots, (lice them, and boil to a marmalade, with ' a drop of water ; reduce it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quar- ter of a pound ot the marmalade to a pound of fugar made candy height, and work it well together when it begins to cool. Cler- mont, 549. To preferve green Apricots. Gather your apricots before the ftones are hard, put them into a pan of hard water, with plenty of vine-leaves, fet them over a flow fire till they are quite yellow, then take them out, and rub them with a flannel and fait to take off the lint ; put them into the pan to the fame water and leaves, cover them clofe, fet them a great diltance from the fire till they are a fine light .green, then take them carefully up ; pick out all the bad-coloured and broken ones ; boil the belt gently for two or three times in a thin fy- rup, let them be quite cold every time. When they look plump and clear, make a fyrup of double-refined fugar, but not too thick ; give your apricots a gentle boil in it, then put them into pots or glafles ; dip paper in brandy, lay it over them, and keep them for ufe; then take out all the broken and bad-coloured ones, and boil them in the firft fyrup for tarts. Rajfald, 218. Syrup of Quinces. Grate your quinces, and pals their pulp through a cloth to ex- tract the juice ; fet their juices in the fun to fettle, or before the fire, and by that means clarify it. For every four ounces of this juice, take a pound of fugar boiled brown. If the putting in the juice of the quinces fhould check the boiling of the fugar too much, give the fyrup fome boiling till it becomes pearled; then take it off the fire, and, when cold, put it into the bottles. To preferve Almonds dry. Take a pound of Jordan almonds, half a pound of double-re- fined fugar (one half of the almonds blanched, the other half un- blanched) beat the white of an egg very well, pour it on the al- monds, and wet them well with it; then boil the fugar, dip in the almonds, ftir them all together that the fugar may hang well on them, then lay them on plates; put them in the oven after the bread is drawn, let them flay all night, and they will keep the year round. Mafon, 410. Ta