39° Family Thyjician. 5 lenitive eleftuary, and a tea-fpoonful of it taken three or four times a-day. Various ointments, and other external applications, are re- commended in the piles; but I do not remember to have feen any effects from thefe worth mentioning. Their principal ufe is to keep the part moid, which may be done as well by a foft poultice, or an emollient cataplafm. When the pain, however, is very great, a liniment made of two ounces of emollient oint- ment, and half an ounce of liquid laudanum, beat up with the yolk of an egg, may be applied. TiJJot. Buchan. The Quinfey, or Injlammaiion of the Throat. In general it proceeds from the fame caufes as other inflam- matory diforders, viz. an obdru£ted perfpiration, or whatever heats or inflames the blood. An inflammation of the throat is often occafloned by omitting fome part of the covering ufually worn about the neck, by drinking cold liquor when the body is ■warm, by riding or walking againd a cold northerly wind, or any thing that greatly cools the throat, and parts adjacent. It may likewife proceed from the negleft of bleeding, purging, or any other cullomary evacuation. The inflammation of the throat is evident from infpection, the parts appearing red and fwelled ; befides, the patient complains of pain in fwallowing. His pulfe is quick and hard, with other fymptoms of a fever. If blood be let, it is generally co- vered with a tough coat of a whitifh colour, and the patient fpits a tough phlegm. As the fwelling and inflammation increafe, the breathing and fwallowing become more difficult; the pain affe£ls the ears ; the eyes generally appear red, and the face fwells, The patient is often obliged to keep himfelf in an ereft poflure, being in danger of fuffocation ; there is a conftant nau- fea, or inclination to vomit, and the drink, inftead of paffing into the flomach, is often returned by the nofe. The patient is frequently ffarved at lad, merely from an inability to fwallow any kind of food. When the breathing is laborious, with flraitnefs of bread and anxiety, the danger is gre^t, Though the pain in fwallowing be very great, yet while the patient breathe? eafy, there is not fa much danger An external fwelling is no unfavourable fymp- tom; but if if fuffdenly falls, and the difeafe affefts the bread, the danger is very great. When a qufafey is the confequence of fome other difeafe, which has already weakened the patient, his fituation is dangerous. A frothing at the mPuth> with a iwelled tongue,