23 B Of Fi/h. To Jiew Eels. Skin, gut, and wafh your eels very clean in fix or eight wa- ters, to wafh away all the fand ; then cut them in pieces about as long as your finger ; put juft water enough for fauce ; put in a fmall onion ftuck with cloves, a little bundle of fweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, and fome whole pepper in a thin muflin rag. Cover it clofe, and let them flew very foftly. Take care to look at them now and then ; put in a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little chopped parfley. When you find they are quite tender, and well done, take out the onion, fpice, and fweet herbs. Put in fait enough to feafon it; then difh them up with.the fauce. To broil Eels. Having fkinned and cleanfed your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over them bread crumbs, chopped parfley, fage, pepper, and fait; bafte them well with butter, and fet them in a dripping-pan ; roaft or broil them, and ferve them up with parfley and butter. To broil or roof Eels. Having fkinned and cleaned a large eel, mix bread crumbs, grated lemon-peel, parfley chopped, pepper, fait, nutmeg, a few oyfters chopped, a bit of butter, and the yolk of an egg. Stuff the eel, few it up, turn it round, rub it with yolk of egg, ftrew over it fine bread-crumbs, ftick on bits of butter, a little water in the difh. Bake it either in a common or Dutch oven. Serve it with white fifh fauceadd to it what gravy comes from the fifh, firft taking off the fat. The oyfters in the fluffing may be omitted. Or, ftrip the fkin off the eel to the tail, fcotch it, rub it with pepper and fait; fluff it with the above ingredients, draw the fkin over it, fkewer it round, hang it in the Dutch oven, roaft it ; or put it on a gridiron, at a great diftance, over a clear fire. When it is near done, fet it lower to brown. Anchovy, or white fifh-fauce. Mafn, 244. To fry Eels. Cut one or two eels in pieces; cut out the back-bone, and fcore it on both Tides; marinade it about an hour in vinegar, with parfley, fliced onions, fhallots, and four cloves; then drain it, bafte it with eggs and bread-crumbs, fry it of a good colour. Garnifh with fried parfley, and ferve with a relifhing fauce in a fauce-boat. Clermont, 344. To bake Sprats. Rub them with fait and pepper; and to every two pints of vinegar