i ยง4 'Turtles and Mock Turtles. of Madeira wine, feafon with chyan pepper and fait pretty high ; put in the lungs and white meat, flew them up gently for fifteen minutes ; have fome force-meat balls made, out of the white part inftead of veal, as for Scotch collops. If any eggs, feald them ; if not, take twelve hard yolks of eggs, made into egg balls. Have your callapafh, or deep {hell, done round the edges with pafte, feafon it in the infide with chyan pepper and fait, and a little Madeira wine ; bake it half an hour, then put in the lungs and white meat, force meat, and eggs over, and bake it half an hour. Take the bones, and three quarts of veal broth, fea- foned with an onion, a bundle of fvveet herbs, two blades of mace; flew it an hour, drain it through a fieve, thicken it with butter and flour, put in half a pint of Madeira wine, flew it half an hour; feafon with chyan pepper and fait to your liking. This is the foup. Take the callapee, run your knife between the meat and ihell, and fill it full of force-meat ; feafon it all over with fweet herbs chopped fine, a fhallot chopped, chyan pepper ' and fait, and a little Madeira wine ; put a pafte round the edge, and bake it an hour and an half. Take the guts and maw, put them in a ftew-pan, with a little broth, a bundle of fweet herbs, two blades of mace beat fine ; thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, flew them gently for half an hour, feafon with chyan pepper and fait, beat up the yolks of two eggs in half a pint of cream, put it in, and keep flirting it up one way till it boils up, then difh them up as follows: ' CALLAPEE. FRICASSEE. SOUP. FINS. CALLAPASH. 3 The fins eat fine, when cold, put by in the liquor. GtaJJe 344 to 346. Farley, 22 to 26. To drefs a Turtle of about thirty pounds weight. When you kill the turtle, which mud be done the night be- fore, cut off the head, and let it bleed two or three hours ; then cut off the fins, and the callapee from the callapafh ; take care you do not burd the gall ; throw all the inwards into cold water, the guts and tripe keep by themfelves, and flip them open with a pen-knife, wadi them very clean in Raiding water, and r ferape