Of Soups. I9t is thus made: Cut a large old hare into fmall pieces, and put it in a mug, with three blades of mace, a little fait, two large onions, a red herring, fix morels, half a pint of red wine, and three quarts of water. Bake it three hours in a quick oven, and then drain it into a tofting"pan. Have ready boiled three ounces of French badey, or fago, in water. Then put the liver ol the hare two minutes in fcalding water, and rub it through a hair fi -V'e, with the back of a wooden fpoon. Put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter ol a pound of butter. Set it over the fire, and keep it ftirring, but do not let it boil. If y u difapprove of the liver you may put in crifped bread, fteep- ed in red wine. Farley, 156. Soup a-la-Reine. Take a knuckle of veal, and three or four pounds of lean beef, put to it fix quarts of water with a little fait. When it boils, fk;m it well, then put in fix large onions, two carrots, a head or two of celery, a parfnip, one leek, and a little thyme. Boil them all together till the meat is boiled quite down, then (train it through a hair fieve, and let it (land about half an hour; then (kirn it well, and clear it off gently from the fettlings into a clear pan Boil half a pint of cream, and pour it on the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and let it fjak well. Take half a pound of al- mond,, blanch and beat them as fine as pofirble, putting in now and then a little cream to prevent them from oiling. Then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine. Then make your broth hot, and pour it to your almonds. Strain it through a fine hair fieve, rubbing i with a fpoon till all the goodnefs is gone through into a (lew-pan, and add more cream to make it white. Set it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it boils, (kim off the froth as it rifes, foak the tops of two French rolls in melted butter, in a (lew-pan, till they are crifp, but not brown; then take them out of the butter, and lay them on a plate before the fire; and a quarter of an hour before you fend it to the table, take a little oi the foup hot, and put it to the roll in the bottom, of the tureen ; put your foup on the fire, keep ftirring it till ready to boil, then put it into your tureen, and ferve it up hot. Be fure you take all the fat off the broth before you put it to the al- monds, or it will fpoil it; and take care it does not curdle. Raffald, 7. Farley, 145, Soup