Of Soups. 201 Soup Lorraine. Take a pound of fweet almonds, blanch and beat them in 3l mortar, with a very little water to keep them from oiling; put to them all the white part of a large roaft fowl, and the yolks of four poached eggs ; pound all together as fine as pof- fible. Take three quarts of ftrong veal broth; let it be very white, and fkim off all the fat. Put it into a ftew-pan with the other ingredients, and mix them well together. Boil them foftly over a ftove, or on a clear fire. Mix the white part of another roaft fowl very fine; feafon with pepper, fait, nut- meg, and a little beaten mace. Put [in a bit of butter as big as an egg, and a fpoonful or two of the foup ftrained, and fet it over the ftove to be quite hot. Cut two French rolls in thin flices, and fet them before the fire to crifp. Take one of the hollow rolls, which are made for oyfter loaves, and fill it with the mince; lay on the top as clofe as poftible, and keep it hot. Strain the foup through a piece of dimity into a clean fauce- pan, and let it flew till it is the thicknefs of cream. Put the crifped bread in the difh or tureen, pour the fauce over it, and place the roll with the minced meat in the middle. Ma~ Jon, 191. Dauphin Soup. Put a few flices of lard in the bottom of your fauce-pan, fliced ham and veal, three onions fliced, a carrot and parfnip. Soak over the fire till it catches, then add weak broth or boil- ing water ; boil it on a flow fire till the meat is done. Pound the breaft of a roafted fowl, fix yolks of hard eggs, as many fweet almonds. Sift your broth, and add enough to youi* pounded compound as will lift it with a ftamine. Soak your, bread till tender, in broth ; warm your cullis without boiling, and mix it with as much' broth as gives it a pretty thick con- fluence, You may garnifh this foup with a fowl, or knuckle of veal, as in all white foups. Clermont, 21. fet it , fomc whole black pepper, a calf’s foot or two, a head or two of celery, and a very little bit of butter. Let it draw at a dif- tance from the fire. Put in a quart of warm beer, three quarts of warm beef broth, or water. Let thefe flew till enough. Strain it, take off the fat very clean, put in fome afparagus heads, cut Afparagus Soup. Provide four or five pounds of beef, cut it into pieces : jover a fire, with an onion or two, a few cloves and