32^ Preferving. Put over them papers dipped in brandy, and tie them down clofe. parley, 339. “To preferve Red Currants in bunches. Having ftoned your currants, tie fix or feven bunches together with a thread to a piece of fplit deal, about the length of your finger; put double-refined fugar, equal in weight to your cur- rants, into your preferving pan, with a little water, and boil it till the fugar flies ; then put the currants in, and juft give them a boil up, and cover them till next day j then take them out, and either dry them or put them ip glafles, with the fyrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants; put brandy-paper over them, and tie them clofe down with another paper, and fet them in a dry place. Raffald, 214. Another way. Stone your currants, tie the bunches to bits of flicks, fix or feven together: allow the weight of the currants in fugar, which make into a fyrup ; boil it high, put in the currants, give them aboil, fet them by; the next day take them out. When the fyrup boils, put them in again, give them a boil or two, and take them out. Boil the fyrup as much as is neceflary. When cold, put it to the currants in glafles. Cover with brandy-paper. Mafon, 421. Currants preferved in Jelly. Clip your currants from the ftalks, cut off the black top, and flone them. To every pound of fruit, add two pounds of fugar, and boil it till it blows very ftrong. Put in the currants, and let them boil. Take them from the fire, let them (land to fet- tle, then let them boil again. Put in a pint of currant jelly, let it all fimmer a little, then take it from the fire. Let it fettle a little, fkim it. When cold, put it into glafles. Take care to difperfe the currants equally. 5"0 preferve Cherries with the leaves and Jlalks green. Dip the ftalks and leaves in the beft vinegar when it is boiling hot, (lick the fprig upright in a fieve till they are dry. In the mean time boil fome double-refined fugar to fyrup, and dip the cherries, ftalks, and leaves, in the fyrup, and juft let them Icald ; lay them on a fieve, and boil the fugar to a candy'height, then dip the cherries, ftalks, leaves, and all ; then flick the branches and fieves, and dry them as you do other fweetmeats. They look very pretty at candle light in a defert. G/aJje, 312. Cohferve of Apricots. Peel ripe apricots, fiice them, and boil to a marmalade, with a drop