Made Dijhes of Poultry, €sfc. i6i v ?rated bread, and two ounces of flour, put it into another plate. 'ut on a ftew-pan with a little rich beef-gr-qvy, tie up three or four cloves in a bit of mutlin, and put into the gravy. Put in the pigeons, let them flew till they are almoft enough, then take them up, and fet them before a fire to keep warm ; then fet on a frying-pan with fome good beef-dripping, enough to cover the pigeons. When it boils, take them, one at a time, roll them in the meat that was beat, then in the yolk of egg ; roll them in it till they are quite wet, then ftrew over with the bread and flour, pour them into the boiling dripping, and let them remain till they are of a fine brown. Alaftm, 277. Pigeons Surtout. Having forced your pigeons, lay a flice of bacon on the breaft, and a flice of veal beat with the back of a knife, and feafoned with mace, pepper, and fait. Tie it on with a fmall pack- thread, or two fmall fine fkewers are better. Spit them on a fine bird fpit, roaft them, and bafte them with a piece of butter, then with the yolk of an egg, and then bafte them again with the crumbs of bread, a little nutmeg, and fvveet herbs. When they are enough, lay them in your dilli. Plave good gravy ready, with truffles, morels, and mulhrooms, to pour into your difh ; and garnifh with lemon. Farley, 126. I Pigeons tranfmogrified. Pick and clean fix fmall young pigeons, but do not cut off their heads; cut off their pinions, and boil them ten minutes in water, then cut off the ends of fix large cucumbers, and fcrape out the feeds ; put in your pigeons, but let the heads be cut at the ends of the cucumbers, and flick a bunch of barberries in their bills; and then put them in a tofling-pan with a pint of veal gravy, a little anchovy, a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of browning, a little flice of lemon, chyan and fait to your tafte; flew them feven minutes, take them out, thicken your aravy with a little butter rolled in flour ; boil it up, and ftrain it&over your pigeons, and ferve them up. Raffald, 130. Pigeons a-la-braze. Pjck, draw, and trufs fome large pigeons, then take, a ftew- pan, and lay at the bottom fome flices of bacon, veal, and M 5 * onions.