Of'Tarts, CuJlards, and CheefecakeS. 303 you hate, and fo on till your di(h is full ; then boil a quart of cream, and thicken with four eggs and a fpoonful of orange flower water. Sweeten it with fugar to your palate, and pour over the rdf. Half an hour will bake it. GlaJJ'e, 149. Majon, •390. Farley, 221. Almond CuJlards. Put a pint of cream into a tofling-pan, a flick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, boil it, and fet it to cool; blanch two ounces of almonds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with rofe- water; if you like a ratafia tafle, put in a few apricot kernels^ or bitter almonds ; mix them with your cream, fweeten it to your tafle, fet it on a flow fire, and keep ftirring it till it is pretty thick. If you let it boil, it will curdle ; pour it into cups, &c. Rajfald, 256. Another way. Put a bit of cinnamon into a pint of cream, fweeten and boil it. When cold, put to it one ounce of fweet almonds (five or fix bitter) blanched and beaten, with a little brandy. Stir this over the fire till near boiling ; flrain it into cups. Mafm, 398. Plain CuJlards. Take a quart of new milk, fweeten it to your tafle, grate in a little nutmeg, beat up eight eggs, with only four whites; beat them up well, ftir them into the milk, and bake it in China bafons, or put them in a deep China difli ; lfave a kettle of wa- ter boiling, fet the cup in, let the water come above half way, but do not let it boil too faft, for fear .of its getting into the cups, and take a hot iron, and colour them at the top. You may add a little rofe-water. GlaJJ'e, 289. Another way. Set a quart of good cream over a flow fire, with a little cin- namon and four ounces of fugar. When it has boiled, take it off the fire, beat the yolks of eight eggs, and put to them a fpoon- ful of orange-flower water, to prevent the cream from cracking. Stir them in by degrees as your cream cools, put the pan over a flow fire, ftir it carefully one way till it is almoft boiling, and then pour it into cups. Farley, 305. Baked CuJlards„ Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon ; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rofe and orange-flower water arid fack, nutmeg and fugar to your palate: mix them well together, and bake them in China cups. Orange a