244 Of Sauces. Sauce for JVild Buck, ’Teal, &c. . Take a proper quantity of veal-gravy, with fome pepper and ialt; iqueeze in the juice of two Seville oranges ; add a little red wine, and let the red wine boil fome time in the gravy. To make Force-meat Balls. Force-meat balls are a great addition to all made-diflies, made thus :—Take half a pound of veal, and half a pound of fuet cut fine, and beat in a marble mortar or wooden bowl. Have a few fvveet herbs and parfiey fhred fine, a little mace dried and beat fine, a fmall nutmeg grated, or half a large one, a little lemon-peel cut very fine, a little pepper and fait, and the yolks of two eggs. Mix all thefe well together, then roll them in little round balls, and fome in little long balls ; roll them in flour, and fry them brown. If they are for any thing of white fauce, put a little water in a fauce-pan, and when the water boils, put them in, and let them boil for a few mi- nutes, but never fry them for white fauce. Glajfe, 21. Farley, *39- Sauce for a boiled Salmon. Having boiled a bunch of fennel and parfley, chop them fmall, and put it into fome good melted butter, and fend it to table in a fauce-boat; another with gravy-fauce. To make the gravy-fauce, put a little brown gravy into a fauce-pan with one anchovy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, a meat-fpoonful of liquor from your walnut-pickle, one or two fpoonfuls of the water that the fifli was boiled in ; it gives it a pleafant flavour ; a flick of horfe-radifh, a little browning and fait; boil them three or four minutes, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, and ftrain it through an hair fieve. N. B. This is a good fauce for molt kinds of fifli. Raf /aid, 242. t An excellent Sauce for tnojl kinds of Fife. Take fome mutton or veal gravy, put to it a little of the wa- ter that drains from your fifli ; when boiled enough, put it in a fauce-pan, and put in a whole onion, one anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine; thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of cream; if you have oyflers, cockles, or fhrimps, put them in after you take it ofl the fire, but it is extremely good without. You may ule red w'ine inftead of white, by leaving out the cream. To make Qyjler Sauce. The ovflers being opened, walh them out of the liquor, then “ * J D drain