Made Dijbes of Poultry, &c. 157 Another way. A' O. ta When cut to pieces, flour it; put into a {lew-pan fome gravy, a little red wine, fhallot chopped, fait and pepper, a piece of le- mon ; boil this, put in the duck, tofs it up, take out the lemon. —Toalted fippets. Mafon, 273. ‘To drefs a Wild Duck in-perfeftion. j * '' - - • . - • Half road your duck, lay it in a difh, carve it, but leave the joints hanging together: throw a little pepper and fait, and fqueeze the juice of a lemon over it; turn it on the bread, and prefs it hard with a plate, and add to its own gravy two or three fpoonfuls of good gravy ; cover it clofe with another difh, and fet it over a dove ten minutes; then fend it to table hot in the difh it was done in, and garnifli with lemon. You may add a little red wine, and a fhallot cut fmall, if you like it; but it is apt to make the duck eat hard, unlefs you fird heat the wine, and pour it in jud as it* is done. / To Jlew Ducks. Lard three young ducks down each fide the-bread, dud them with flour, and fet them before the fire to brown ; then put them in a dew-pan, with a quart of v/ater, a pint of red wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, an anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlic, a bundle of fweet herbs, chyan pepper to your tade ; 1st them dew flowly for half an hour, or till they are tender; lay them on a difh and keep them hot, fkim off the fat, drain the gravy through a hair fieve, add to it a few morels and truffles, boil it quick till reduced to a little more than half a pint, pour it over your ducks, and ferve it up. It is proper for a fide-difh for dinner, or bottom for fupper. Roffald, 127. " Duckling rolled. Make a good force-meat with breads of roaded poultry, as ufual; cut a pretty large duckling in two, bone it thoroughly, and lay on the force-meat; roll it up, tie flices of lard round it, and boil it in a little broth, with a glafs of white wine, a faggot, and two cloves. When done,. fqueeze the fat gently out, and wipe