231 Of Fifh. Mackarel a la Maitre d’Hotel. Take three mackarel, and wipe them very dry with a clean cloth ; cut them down the back from head to tail, but not open them; flour them, and broil them nicely; chop an handful of parfley, and an handful of green onions very fine, mix them up with butter, pepper, and fait. Put your mackarel in the diih, and put your parfley, &c. into the cut in the back, and put them before the fire till the butter is melted. Squeeze the juice of two lemons over them, and fend them up hot. GlajJ'e, 179. To broil Mackarel whole. Clean your mackarel, fplit them down the back, and feaion them with pepper and fait, fome mint, parfley, and fennel, chopped very fine. Flour them, and fry them of a fine light brown, and put them on a difh and (trainer. _ Let your fauce be fennel and butter, and garnifh with parfley. Farley, 51. Mackarel au Court Bouillon. Put in a ftew-pan fome weak broth, half a pint of white wine, diced roots, onions, fweet herbs, pepper, and fait; boil this to- gether about half an hour, then boil the fifh in it; make a fauce with a piece of butter, a little flour, one fhallot chopped very fine, fome fcalded fennel chopped, and a little of the boiling li- quid. When ready to ferve, add the fqueeze of a lemon. Cler mont, 382. To bake Mackarel. Cut their heads ofr, walh and dry them in a cloth, cut them open, rub the bone with a little bay-falt beat fine; take fome mace, black and white pepper, a few cloves, all beat fine; lay them in a long pan, and between every layer of fifh, put two or three bay-leaves, cover them with vinegar; tie writing-paper over them firft, and then thick brown paper doubled; they mud be put into a very flow oven, and will take a long time doing. When they are enough, uncover them, let them Hand till they are cold, then pour away all the vinegar they were baked in, co- ver them with fome more vinegar, and put in an onion ftuck with cloves. Send them to a very flow oven again, and let them (land two hours. They will keep a great while. Always take them out with a (lice; the hands will fpoil them. The great bones taken out are good boiled. To few a Trout. Stuff a fmall trout with grated bread, a piece of butter, parfley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper, fait, nutmeg, favory herbs and yolk of egg, mixed; put it into a ftew-pan, with a quart 0-4 0i