2fhe Family Phyfician. 395 provifions, the proper medicine is a diet confiding of frefh ve- getables ; as oranges, apples, lemons, limes, tamarinds, water crelfes, fcurvy gral's, brook lime, &c. The ufe of thefe, with milk, pot herbs, new bread, and frefh beer or cyder, will feldom fail to remove a fcurvy of this kind, if taken before it be too far advanced ; but to have this effeft, they mud be perdded in for a confiderable time. I have often feen very extraordinary effedls in the land-fcurvy, from a milk diet. This preparation of nature, is a mixture of animal and vegetable properties, which of all others is the mod fit for redoring a decayed conditution, and removing that par- ticular acrimony of the humours which feems to conditute the very eflence of the fcurvy, and many other difeafes. But people deipife this wholefome and nourilhing food, becaufe it is cheap ; and devour with greedinefs flefh and fermented liquors, while milk is only deemed fit for their hogs. The mod proper drink in the fcurvy is whey or butter-milk. When thefe cannot be had, found cyder, perry, or fpruce beer, may be ufed. Wort has likewife been found to be a proper drink in the fcurvy, and may be ufed at fea, as malt will keep during the longed voyage. A decodlion of the tops of the fpruce fir, is likewife proper. It may be drank in the quantity of an Englilh pint twice a-day. Tar water may be ufed for the fame purpofe, or decodlions of any of the mild mucilaginous ve- l getables; as farfaparilla, marfh-mallow roots, &c. Infufions of the bitter plants, as ground-ivy, the lefler centaury, marfh trefoil, &c. are likewife beneficial. I have feen the peafants in fome parts of Britain exprefs the juice of the lad-mentioned plant, and drink it with good effedl in thofe foul fcorbutic eruptions with i which they are often troubled in the fpring feafon. A flight degree of fcurvy may be carried oft' by frequently fucking a little of the juice of a bitter orange, or a lemon. When the difeafe affedls the gums only, this practice, if con- tinued for fome time, will generally carry it olf. We would, however, recommend the bitter orange, as greatly preferable to i lemon ; it feems to be as good a medicine, and is not nearly fo hurtful to the domach. Perhaps our own forrel may be little inferior to either of them. All kinds of fa 11 ad are good in the fcurvy, and ought to be eat very plentifully, as fpinach, lettuce, parlley, cellery, endive, radifh, dandelion, &c. It is amazing to iee how foon frefti vege- tables in the fpring cure the brute animals of any fcab or foul- 1 nels which is upon their Ikins, It is reafonable to fuppofe, that their