\ 176 Made Dtjhes of Hares, Rabbits, &c. pan, with a blade or two of mace, an onion Ruck with cloves, fome whole pepper, an anchovy, and a bunch of fwcet herbs; cover them with water, and let them Rew gently ; make a pudding and put into the belly of the other part; lard and roaft it, flour and bafle it well with butter or fmall beer. When the Rew is tender, take it out with a fork into a difli, and Arain off the liquor ; put into it a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of good catchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; fhake all together over the fire till it is of a good thicknefs; take up the roafled hare, and lay it in the middle of the dilh, with the Rew round, and fauce poured over it, and lome good gravy in a boat. Majon, 300. Hare a-la-daube. I . Cut a hare, in fix pieces; bone and lard them with bacon, feafoned with fpices, powder of laurel, chopped parlley, thyme, . fhallots, and one clove of garlick ; braze it with dices of lard, the bones, a little broth, as much of the blood as you can fave, a glafs of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of good butter ; flop the pan well, and flew it on a very flow fire, or in the oven, about four hours; then take out the bones, put the hare in a tureen, and the Rices of bacon upon it; fift the fauce, and put it in the tureen; let it cool before ufing. It ought to be like a pie. Clermont, 288. To fcare a Hare. Lard a hare, and put a pudding in the belly; put it into a pot or fifli kettle, then put to it two quarts of flrong drawn gravy, one of red wine, a whole lemon cut, a faggot of fweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, a little fait, and fix cloves ; cover it clofe, and flew it over a flow fire till it is three parts done ; then take it up, put it into a dilh, and flrew it over with crumbs of bread, fweet herbs chopped fine, fome lemon-peel grated, and hall a nutmeg; fet it before the fire, and bafle it till it is ol a fine light brown. In the mean time, take the fat off your gravy, and thicken it with the yolk of an egg. Take fix eggs, boiled hard and chopped fmall, fome pickled cucumbers cut very thin ; mix thefe with a fauce, and pour it into the dilh. A fillet of mutton, or neck of venifon, may be done the fame way. Note.