Made Wines, ripe; ftrip them, and fqueeze out the juice ; put a gallon of cold water and two fpoonfuls of yeaft to a gallon of the juice. When it has worked two days, (train it through a hair fieve. In the mean time, put an ounce of ifing-glafs to deep in cider, and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds of loaf-fugar; then (tir it well together, and put it in a calk. Put a quart of brandy to every five gallons of wine, mix them well in your cafk, clofe it well up, and after letting it ftand four months, bottle it. Another way. Five quarts of currant juice, and fourteen pounds of fugar, will make a five gallon cafk; fill it up with water, and let it all work together. When it has done working, put in a hop or two, and a quart of brandy. Birch Wine. To a hogfhead of birch wrater, take four hundred of Malaga raifins, pick them clean, and cut them fmall. Then boil the birch liquor for one hour at leaft, fkim it well, and let it ftand till it is no warmer than milk. Then put in the raifins, and let it ftand clofe covered, ftirring it well four or five times every day. Boil all the (talks in a gallon or two of birch-water, which, added to the other when almoft cold, will give it an agree- able roughnefs. Let it ftand ten days, then put it in a cool cel- lar, and when it has done hiding in the vefi'el, (top it up clofe. It muft ftand nine months, at leaft, before it is bottled. Majon, 461. Farley, 366. Rafpberry JVine. Bruife fome rafpberries with the back of a fpoon, and ftyain them through a flannel bag into a done jar. Put a pound of double-refined fugar to every quart of juice, ftir it well together, and cover it clofe; after letting it ftand three days, pour it clear off. Put two quarts of white wine to one quart of juice, then bottle it off, and it will be fit to drink in about a week. Rafp- berry brandy made thus is a very excellent dram. Turnip Wine. Pare and (lice a quantity of turnips, put them in a cider-prefs, and prefs out all the juice. To every gallon'of juice, put three pounds of lump fugar. Have a vellel ready, j ult large enough to hold the juice, put your fugar into a velfel, and half a pint of brandy to every gallon of juice. Pour in the juice, and lay fomething over the bung for a week, to fee if it works. If it does, you muft not bung it down till it has done working; then I . , (top