Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. To marinade a Goofe* Cut your goofe up the back-bone, then take out all the bones* and fluff it with force-meat, and few up the back again ; fry the goofe a good brown, then put it into a deep ftew-pan, with two quarts of good gravy, and cover it clofe, and flew it two hours ; then take it out, and fkim off the fat; add a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, and one of red wine; one an- chovy fhred fine, beaten mace, pepper, and fait to your palate ; thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little* dilh up your goofe, and ftrain your gravy over it. N. B. Make your fluffing thus:—take ten or twelve fage- leaves, two large onions, two or three large (harp apples, fhred them very fine, mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef marrow, one glafs of red wine, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, fait, and a little lemon-peel fhred fmall; make a light fluffing with the yolks of four eggs. Obferve to make it one hour before you want it. Raffald, 126. To ragoo a Goofe. Flat the breafl down with a cleaver, then prefs it down with your hand, fkim it, dip it into fcalding water; let it be cold, lard it with bacon, feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little beaten mace ; then flour it all over, take a pound of good beef-fuet cut fmall, put it into a deep ftew-pan, let it be melted, then put in your goofe ; let it be brown on both fides. When it is brown, put in a quart of boiling gravy, an onion or two, a bundle of fweet herbs, a bay-leaf, fome whole pepper, and a few cloves. Cover it clofe, and let it flew foftly till it is tender. About an hour will do, if fmall ; if a large one, an hour and an half. In the mean time make a ragoo. Boil fome turnips almoft enough, fome carrots and onions quite enough ; cut your turnips and car- rots the fame as for a harrico of mutton, put them into a fauce- pan with half a pint of good beef gravy, a little pepper and fait, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let this flew all together a quarter of an hour. Take the goofe and drain it well; then lay it in the difh, and pour the ragoo over it. Where the onion is dilliked, leave it out. You may add cab- bage boiled and chopped fmall. Glafe, 85. Mafon,‘ almoft in the fame words, 269. K 2 Tc