34^ Pojfets, Gruels, White-pots, &c. and lay it in. It muft be put into a flow oven. Glafl'c, tc8 Ma/on, 453. White Caudle. Take two quarts of water, and mix with it four fpoonfuls of oatmeal, a blade or two of.mace, and a piece of lemon-peel. Let it boil, and keep ftirring it often. Let it boil about a quar- ter of an hour, and be careful not to let it boil over ; then drain it through a coarfe fieve. When you ufe it, fweeten it to your tafte, grate in a little nutmeg, and what wine you think proper; and, if it is not for a Tick perfon, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. GlaJJ'e, 243. Farley, 429. Brown Caudle. Make your gruel as above, with fix fpoonfuls of oatmeal, and {train it; then add a quart of ale that is not bitter; boil it, then fweeten it to your palate, and add half a pint of white wine or brandy. When you do not put in white wine or brandy, let it be half ale. Salop. Salop is fold at the chemifts. Take a . large tea-fpoonful of the powder, and put it into a pint of boiling water, keep ftirring it till it is a fine jelly, and add wine and fugar to your tafte. Beef Fea. Cut a pound of lean beef into very thin fiices, and put it in ajar ; pour a quart of boiling water over it, and cover it clofe that the fleam may not get out; let it ftand by the fire. It is ftrongly recommended by phyficians for thofe of a weak confti- tution. It fhould be drank milk warm. White-wine Whey. Put a pint of fkimmed milk, and half a pint of white wine into a bafon. Let it ftand a few minutes, then pour over it a pint of boiling water. Let it ftand a little and the curd will ga- ther in a lump, and fettle to the bottom. Then pour your whey into a china bowl, and put in a lump of fugar, a lprig of balm, or a flice of lemon. Raffald, 313. Water Gruel. To a pint of water, put a large fpoonful of oatmeal ; then ftir it well together, and let it boil up three or four times, ftir- ring it often. Do not let it boil over. Then ftrain it through a fieve, fait it to your palate, put in a good piece of frefh butter, brew it with a fpoon till the butter is all melted, and it will be fine and fmooth. Barley