of Vegetables, Fruits, &c. 251 water, and fill them with a force-meat made of roafted poultry ; braze them with fome thin llices of bacon, a little broth, two or three onions, a faggot of parlley and fweet herbs, one carrot fliced, three cloves, a little whole pepper and fait. When done, drain and wipe them, and ferve with a good relifhing cul- lis-fauce. ‘To ragoo Majhrooms. Peel fome large mufhrooms, and take out the infide. Broil them on a gridiron, and when the outfide is brown, put them in a toifing-pan, with a quantity of water fufficient to cover them. Let them (land ten minutes, them put to them a fpoon- ful of white wine, as much of browning, and a very little alle- gar. Thicken it with butter and flour, and boil it a little. Serve it up with fippets round the difli. Farley, 80, from Raf- fald, 288. ' . Another way. Scrape the infide of fome large mulhrooms, and broil them. When a little brown, put them into fome gravy thickened with ale, a little flour, a very little Madeira, fait, and chyan ; a little juice of lemon. Boil thefe together. L’o Jlew Muf:rooms. Firfl put your mufhrooms in fait and water, then wipe them with a flannel, and put them again in fait and water; then throw them into a fauce-pan by themfelves, and let them boil up as quick as poflible; then put in a little chyan pepper and a little mace; let them flew in this a quarter of an hour, then add a tea- cupful of cream, with a little flour and butter the fize of a wal- nut. Serve them up as foon as done. Mufloroom Loaves. Take fmall buttons, and wafh them as for pickling ; boil them a few minutes in a little water; put to them a little cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, fait, and pepper; boil this up, and fill fome fmall Dutch loaves. If they are not to be had, fmall French rolls will do, the crumb taken out; but not fo well as the loaves. Mafon, 339. Stewed Teas and Lettuce. Take a quart of green peas and two large cabbage-lettuces, cut fmall acrofs, and wafhed very clean; put them in a flew-pan with a quart of gravy, and flew them till tender; put in fome butter rolled in flour, feafon with pepper and fait. When of a proper thicknefs, difli them up. N. B. Some like th?m thickened with the yolks of four eggs; others