To prepare Bacon, Hams, &c. 355 be a great while before the water boils. Take it up half an hour before dinner, pull off the fkin, and throw rafpings, finely lifted, all over. Hold a red-hot fire {hovel over; and when dinner is ready, take a few rafpings in a fieve, and fift all over the difh ; then lay in your ham, and with your finger make fine figures round the edge of your difh. Be fure to boil your ham in as much water as you can, and keep it flamming all the time it boils. It mult be at leaft four hours before it boils. This pickle does finely for tongues afterwards, to lie in it a fortnight, and then hang in the wood-fmoke a fortnight, or to boil them out of the pickle. Yorkfhire is famous for hams, and the reafon is this :—their fait is much finer than ours in London ; it is a large clear fait, and gives the meat a fine flavour. I ufed to have it from Malden, in Eflex ; and that fait will make any ham as fine as you can de- fire. It is by much the bell fait for falting meat. When you broil any of thefe hams in flices, or bacon, have fome boiling water ready, and let the dices lie a minute or two in water, then broil them ; it takes out the fait, and makes them eat finer. GlaJJ'e, 265. To fait Tongues. Scrape them and dry them clean with a cloth, and fait them well with common fait, and half an ounce of falt-petre to every tongue; lay them in a deep pot, and turn them every day for a week or ten days; fait them again, and let them lie a week lon- ger ; take them up, dry them with a cloth, flour them, and hang them up, Raffald, 307. To make Hung Beef. Make a ftrong brine with bay-falt, falt-petre, and pump-wa- ter, and put into it a rib of beef for nine days. Then hang it up in a chimney where wood or faw-duft is burnt. When it is a little dry, wafh the outfide with blood two or three times to make it look black ; and when it is dried enough, boil it for ufe. Another way. Take the navel-piece, and hang it up in your cellar as long as it will keep good, and till it begins to be a little fappy. Then take it down and wafh it in fugar and water, one piece after an- other, for you mull cut it into three pieces. Then take a pound of falt-petre, and two pounds of bay-falt, dried and pounded fmall. Mix with them two or three fpoonfuls of brown fu- gar, and rub your beef well with it in every part j then ftrew A a 2 a fuf-