QfFiJh. 225 This is called a-la-Mayence, from being larded with Weft- phalia ham, termed by the French, Jambon.de Maycnce. Jo flew Cod. Cut fome dices of cod as for boiling ; feafon them with grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloves. Put them into a dew-pan, with half a pint of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water. Cover them dole, and let them fiminer for five or fix minutes. Then lqueeze in the juice of a lemon, a few oyfters, and their liquor (trained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, arid a blade or two of mace. Cover them clofe, and let them flew foftly. Shake the pan often to prevent its burning. When the fifh is enough, take out the onion and fweet herbs, lay the cod in a warm dilh, and pour the fauce over it. Alafon, 219. Jo bake a Cod’s Head. Make the head very clean, butter the pan you intend to bake it in, put the head into the pan, put in a bundle of lweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloVes, three or four blades of mace, half a large fpoonful of black and white pepper, a nutmeg bruifed, a quart of water, a little piece of lemon-peel, and a little piece of horfe-radifh. Flour your head, grate a little nutmeg over it, flick pieces of butter all over it, and throw rafpings all over that. Send it to the oven to bake. When it is enough, take it out of that dilh, and lay it carefully into the dilh you intend to ferve it up in. Set the difh over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot. In the mean time be quick, pour all the liquor out of the difh it Was baked in into a,fauce-pan ; fet it on the fire to boil three or four minutes, then drain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, two fpoonfuls of catchup, a pint of fhrimps, half a pint of oyfters or muflels, liquor and all, but firft drain it; a fpoonful of mufhroom pickle, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour. Stir it all together till it is thick and boils, then pour it into the difh. Flave ready fome toad: cut three-cormr ways, and fried crifp. Stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the reft round the head. Garhifh with lemon notched, fcraped horfe-radifti, and parfley crifped in a plate before the fire. Lay one (lice of lemon on the nead, and ferve it up hot. GlaJJ'e, 175. Jo drefs a Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Having taken out the gills, and the blood clean from the bone, walh the head very clean, rub over it a little lalt and a glafs of allegar, then lay it on your fifli-plate. When your wa- Q_ ter