Of Puddings. 26$ fiftence, chop the onions very fine, mix them with the meat and bread-crumbs foaked in cream, and the cream wherein you foaked the bones ; add eight yolks of eggs, three quar- ters of a pound of lard cut in fmall pieces, l'alt, and fpices to tafte. Puddings may thus be made of all forts of poultry or game. They may be boiled in a cloth, as a common bread pudding, and ferved with a relifhing fauce. Dalrymple, 150. A Rice Pudding. Put a quarter of a pound of rice into a fauce-pan, with a quart of new milk, and a {tick of cinnamon ; ftir it often to keep it from flicking to the fauce-pan. When it has boiled thick, pour it into a pan, ftir in a quarter of a pound of frefh butter, and fugar to your palate. Grate in half a nutmeg, add three or four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, and ftir it all well together. When it is cold, beat up eight eggs, with half the whites, beat it all well together, butter a diili, pour it in, and bake it. You may firfl lay a puff pafte all over the difh. For a change, you may put ia a few currants and fweet-meats. GlaJJe, 217. A Ground Rice Pudding. Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in water till it is foft, then beat the yolks of four eggs, and put to them a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter \ mix them well together. You may either boil or bake it. A cheap plain Rice Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and half a pound of rai- fins ftoned, and tie them in a cloth. Give the rice a great deal of room to fwell. Boil it two hours. When it is enough, turn it into your difh, and pour melted butter and fugar over it, with ^ little nutmeg. Another Rice Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, boil it in water till it is foft, and drain it through a hair fieve ; beat it in a marble mor-4 tar, with the yolks of four eggs, four ounces of butter, and the lame quantity of fugar ; grate the rind of half a lemon, and half a nutmeg, work them well together for half an hour ; then put in half a pound of currants well waffled and cleaned, mix them well together, butter your cloth, and tie it up. Boil it an hour, . and lerve it up with white wine fauce. A Sago Pudding. Take two ounces of fago, boil it with fome cinnamon and a kit