33 8 Syllabubs, Blanc-mange, Flummery, Z3c. and give it a boil; then pour it into bafons, or what you pleafe. When cold, turn it out, and it is a fine flummery. Glaffe, 293. Blanc-mange with IJlng-glafs. Put an ounce of picked iling-glafs to a pint of water; put to it a bit of cinnamon, and boil it till the iling-glafs is melted ; put to it three quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of fweet almonds, and fix bitter almonds, blanched and beaten, and a bit of lemon-peel ; fweeten it, ftir it over the fire, and let it boil; lfrain it, ftir it till it is cool, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, and put it into what moulds you pleafe, Turn it out, garnilh with currant-jelly and jam ; or marmalade, quinces, &c. If you choofe to have your blanc-mange of a green colour, put in as much juice of fpinach as will be neceflary for that pur- pofe, and a fpoonful of brandy ; but it Ihould not then retain the name of blanc-?nange, (white food,) but verde-mange, (green food). If you would have it yellow, dilfolve a little faffron in it; you fhould then call it jaune-mange. Or you may make it red, by putting a bit of cochineal into a little brandy, let it Hand half an hour, and ftrain it through a bit of cloth. It is then intitled to the appellation of rouge-mange. Always wet the mould before you put in the blanc-mange. It may be ornamented, w'hen turned out, by flicking about it blanched almonds fliced, or citron, according to fancy. Clear Blanc-mange. Take a quart of flrong calf’s-foot jelly, Ikim off the fat, and ftrain it, beat the whites of four eggs, and put it into a jelly-bag, and run it through feveral times till it is clear. Beat one ounce of fweet almonds, and one of bitter, to a pafte, with a fpoonful of rofe-water fqueezed through a cloth ; then mix it with the jelly, and three fpoonfulsof very good cream ; fet it over the fire again, and keep ftirring it till it is almoft boiling; then pour it into a bowl, and ftir it very often till it is almoft cold ; then wet your moulds and fill them. Raff aid, 196. Blanc-mange, with a preserved Orange. Fill your orange with blanc-mange ; and, when cold, flick in it long flips of citron, like leaves ; pour blanc-mange in the difli; when cold, fet the orange in the middle. Garnilh with preferved or dried fruits. Or, you may pour blanc-mange into a mould like a Turk’s cap, lay round it jelly a little broken ; put a fprig of myrtle, or fmall preferved orange on the top. Flummery.