294 Of Potting. pounds of beef take four ounces of falt-petre, four ounces of pe- tre-falt, a pint of white fait, and an ounce of fal prunella ; beat the falts all very fine, mix them well together, rub the falts into the beef; then let it lie four days, turning it twice a day; then put it into a pan, cover it with pump water, and a little of its own brine ; then bake it in an oven with houfhold bread till it is as tender as a chicken, then take it from the gravy, and bruife it abroad, and take out all the (kin and finews ; then pound it in a marble mortar, and lay it in a broad difh ; mix in it an ounce of cloves and mace, three quarters of an ounce of pepper, and one nutmeg, all beat very fine. Mix it all very well with the meat, then clarify a little frefh butter, and mix with the meat, to make it a little moift ; mix it very well together, prefs it down into pots very hard, fet it at the oven’s mouth juft to fettle, and cover it two inches thick with clarified butter. When cold, co- ver it with white paper. GlaJJ'e, 261. To pot Venifon. If your venifon ftiould happen to be ftale, rub it with vine- gar, and let it lie one hour; then dry it clean with a cloth, and rub it all over with red wine; feafon it with beaten mace, pep- per, and fait; put it on an earthen difh, and pour over it half a pint of red wine, and a pound of butter, and fet it in the oven ; if it be a (houlder, put a coarfe pafte over it, and bake it all night in a baker’s oven. Wuen it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and bea*- it in a marble mortar, with the fat from your gravy. If you find it not feafoned enough, add more feafoning and clarified butter, and keep beating it till it is a fine pafte. Then prefs it hard down into your pots, and pour clarified butter over it; keep it in a dry place. Raff aid, 295. To pot a Hare. Let your hare hang for fome days, then cut it into pieces, bake it, with a little beer at the bottom of the pan, and fome butter on the top ; pick it from the bones and finews, and beat it with the butter from the top of the gravy, adding enough to make it very mellow ; add fait, pepper, and pounded cloves ; put it into pots, fet it a few minutes in a flack oven, pour over clarified but- ter. Mafon, 302. To pot Eels. Take a large eel, fkin it, cleanfe it, and wafh it very clean ; dry it in a cloth, and cut it into pieces as long as your finger. S Seafon them with a iittle beaten mace and nutmeg, pepper, fair, and a lntlc fal prunella beat fine ; lay them in a pan, then pour as