i97 Of Soups. a pretty colour, then give it a gentle boil, which will take off the talte of the fpinach : (lice in the whiteft part of a head of celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, take a flice of bread, and cut it in little fquare pieces ; cut a little bacon the fame way, fry them a light brown, in frefh butter; cut a large cabbage-let- tuce in llices, fry it after the other, put it in the tureen with the fried bread and bacon: have ready boiled, as for eating, a pint of young peas, and put them in the foup, with a little chopped mint, if you like it, and pour it into your tureen. Rajfald, 9, Soup d-la-Mufquetaire. Take a pint of green peas, and a handful of forrel ; boil in your broth and gravy on a flow fire, a neck of mutton ; which, when done, glaze it as a fricandeau, and ferve it all together. Dairy tuple, 26. A common Teas Soup. Take a quart of fplit peas, put to them a gallon of foft water* a little lean bacon, or roaft-beef bones; wafh one head of celery* cut it, and put it in with a turnip, boil it till reduced to two quarts, then work it through a cullender, with a wooden fpoon; mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the foup, and flice in another head of celery, chyan pepper, and fait to your tafte; cut a flice of bread in fmall dice, fry them a light brown, and put them in your difh ; then pour the foup over it. Farley, j6o. Another way. Cut two large onions, or three or four fmall ones, two car- rots, fome fpinach, celery, endive, and a turnip, into a ftew- pan; fry them with a bit of butter, fo as to be as little greafy as pofiible. Put them into a ftew-pan with four quarts of water, (if the foup is to be very rich, as much beef-broth), fome roaft- beef bones, if they are to be had, a red herring, or a bit of lean bacon, and a quart of fplit peas. Let this ftew gently till the peas are very foft; pulp them through a fine cullender, or a coarfe fieve. When cold, take off the top, heat the foup with celery boiled and cut to pieces, fpinach, endive, and a little chyan. Cut fome bread like dice, fry it very dry, put it into a tureen, and pour in the foup ; add a little dried mint rubbed very fine j or, if preferred, the herbs may be fried after they are boiled. Some gravy that has run from a piece of meat is a great addition. If the foup does not appear quite thick enough, mix a little flour very fmooth, and add to it; but be fure to let it boil a few mi- nutes, or the flour will tafte raw. The liquor of a leg of pork O 3 makes I