V refer ving. .327 To preferve Damafcenes. Pick the damafcenes off the ftalks, and prick them with a pin, then put them into a deep pot, and with them half their weight of Dounded loaf-fugar; fet them in a moderate oven till they are |bft, then take them off and give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them. Having done fo two or three times, take them carefully out, and put them into the jars you intend to keep them in; then pour over them rendered mutton fuet, tie a bladder over them, and keep them for ufe in a very cool place. A Conferve of Cherries. Stone your cherries, and boil them a moment; ft ft them, and reduce the juice on a How fire till it comes to a pretty thick mar- malade ; add the proportion of a quarter of a pound to a pound of fugar. Clermont, 550. Conferve of red Rofes, or any other flower. Take rofe-buds, or any other flowers, and pick them ; cutoff the white part from the red, and put the red flowers and fift them through a fieve, to take out the feeds ; then weigh them, and to every pound of flowers take two pounds and an half of loaf- fugar ; beat the flowers pretty fine in a {tone mortar, then by degrees put the fugar to them, and beat it very well till it is well incorporated together; then put it into gallipots, tie it over with paper, and over that a leather, and it will keep feven years. Glaffe, 315. To preferve Strazvherries. On a dry day, gather the fineft fcarlet flrawberries, with their ftalks on, before they are too ripe. Lay them feparately on a china difh, beat and fift twice their weight of double-refined fu- gar, and drew it over them. Then take a few ripe fcarlet ftraw- berries, crufli them, and put them into a jar, with their weight of double-refined fugar beat fmall. Cover them clofe, and let them Hand in a kettle of boiling water till they are foft, and the fyrup is come out of them. Then {train them through a muflin rag into a tofling-pan, boil and fkim it well, and when it is cold, put in your whole flrawberries, and fet them over the fire till they are milk warm ; then take them off, and let them ftand till they are quite cold ; then fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, and repeat the fame till they look clear; but be careful not to let them boil, as that will bring off their ftalks. When the ftrawberries are cold, put them into jelly-glafles, with the ftalk downwards, and fill up your glafles with the fyrup. Y 4 Put