x 86 Turtles and Mock Turtles* and put into water too, and with a cleaver chop out the bones from the Ihoulders and hinder parts, and put to the reft. Take out your guts and tripe clean, and the other entrails, and lay your callapafh in water while you prepare your callapee, which fhould be done as follows :—cut off all fuperfluous bits for your foup, and trim it neatly. Cut little holes in the thick flelh, with the point of your knife; lay it in a difh, and foak it well in Madeira wine, and feafon with chyan pepper, (but not too much,) a little fait, plenty of fhallot and parfley minced and flrewed upon it. Next take the callapafh, and order in the fame manner ; firft cutting off the fhell to the creafe on the other fide of the edge, and put a neat rim of pafte quite round, and adorn it well; pour a little cullis round, and fqueeze the juice of fome lemons or oranges; and they are ready for your oven. The common way is to put fome of the flefli into the callapafh ; but, in my opinion, it is beft to put none. The next to be made ready is your fins and head; blanch them till you can take off the outer fkin \ trim them, and put them into a ftew-pan with the head ; pour in fome Madeira, a ladle of broth, a pinch of chyan, a fmall bundle of onions, herbs, and fhallots, and ftew them tender with a little fait, and ’tis ready ; the two biggeft fins for one difh, and the head and two fmalleft for another. Now cut the fide fhells in pieces, and blanch them fo that you may take out the griftles or jelly part whole. While this is doing, prepare the tripe or guts with a fharp knife; flit them from end to end, and care muft be taken that all is wafhed and fcraped clean ; cut them into pieces about two inches in length, and blanch them. When your broth is made of the flelh, to the tripe in a ftew-pan put as much as will cover it; put in a bunch of herbs, with an onion or two, a couple of whole fhallots, fome mace, and a little fait; ftew all till pretty tender ; take out the herbs, &c. and put butter and flour to thicken it; prov ide a lia- fon as for a fricaffee of chickens, and at your dinner-time tofs it up with the juice of lemon or orange, and it is ready. Next take the jellies of your fide fhells, and prepare for a difh done in the fame manner as the fins and head; Iqueeze in fome juice of orange or lemon, and it is ready. And now for the foup Moft'of which that I have feen or tailed has been poor inlipid fluff. To fay why it was, is faying lefs than nothing. 1 he whole matter is, to Ihew how it may be made good ; thus, they cut all the flefli from the bones into fmall pieces, and to about a pound of meat put a quart of water, and to five or fix quarts, a pint of Madeiia. Take care that it is well flammed. Tie up