The Family Vhyjkian* 387 A periodical Ioofenefs ought never to be flopped. It is al- ways an effort of nature to carry off fome offending matter* which, if retained in the body, might have fatal effedls. Chil- dren are very liable to this kind of Ioofenefs, efpecially while toothing. It is, however, fo far from being hurtful to them, that fuch children generally get their teeth with lefs trouble. If thefe loofe ftools fhould at any time prove four or griping, a tea- fpoonful of magnefia alba, with four or five grains of rhubarb* may be given to the child in a little panada, or any other food. This, if repeated three or four times, will generally correct the acidity, and carry off the griping ftools. From whatever caufe a Ioofenefs proceeds, when it is found neceffary to check it, the diet ought to confift of rice boiled with milk, and flavoured with cinnamon ; rice-jelly; fago, with red port; and the lighter forts of flefh-meat roafted. The drink may be thin water-gruel, rice-water, or weak broth made from lean veal, or with a fheep’s head, as being more gelatinous than mutton, beef, or chicken-broth. Buchan. Objlruttions in young Girls. After a female has arrived at that period of life when the menfes ufually begin to flow, and they do not appear, but, on the con- trary, her health and fpirits begin to decline, I would advife, in- iiead of fhutting the poor girl up in the houfe, and dofing her with fteel, afafoedita, and other naufeous drugs, to place her in a fituation where fhe can enjoy the benefit of free air and agree- able company. There let her eat wholefome food, take fuffi- cient exercife, and amufe herfelf in the moft agreeable manner ; and we have little reafon to fear, but Nature, thus aftifted, will do her proper work. Indeed lhe feldom fails, unlefs where the fault is on our fide. This difeharge, in the beginning, is feldom fo inftantaneous as to furprife females unawares. It is generally preceded by fymptoms which foretel its approach ; as a fenfe of heat, weight* and dull pain in the loins ; diftention and hardnefs of the brealls ; head-ach ; lofs of appetite; laffitude ; palenefs of the counter nance ; and fometimes a flight degree of fever. When thefe fymptoms appear about the age at which the menftrual flux ufually begins, every thing fhould be carefully avoided which, may obftru£l that neceffary and falutary evacuation ; and all means ufed to promote it; as fitting frequently over the fleam of warm water, drinking warm diluting liquors, &c. After the menfes have once begun to flow, the greateft care Ihould be taken to avoid every thing that may tend to obftru£t C c 2. them.