233 Of Fijh. together in a large mortar, with three or four eggs; try if it is feafoned to your mind, and fill the belly of your fifh, and clofe up that part that is cut in the back, make it nice and even ; take two or three eggs, daub it well over; and drew fome crumbs of bread upon it, and bake it in a gentle oven ; the time, accord- ing to the bignefs of your pike. For your fauce, to two or three ladles of your cullis, add two or three large fpoonfuls of whole capers, fome parfley minced fine, the juice of two lemons, a lit- tle minced fhallot, and ferve it up in your hot difh, but not poured over. As this clifh is baked, garnifh with a large quantity of fried parfley. Verral, 37. To Jlew Pike. Make a brown with butter and flour, then add a pint of red wine, a faggot, four cloves, two dozen fmall onions half boiled, pepper and fait, then the pike cut in pieces.. Stew it flowly till the fifh is done. Take out the faggot, and add a piece of but- ter. When ready to ferve, add two chopped anchovies, and a fpoonful of capers ; garnifh with fried bread, and ferve the fauce over all. You may alfo add artichoke bottoms, mufhrooms, carp-roes, &c. Clermont, 338. To drefs a Brace of Carp. Put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, melt it, and put in 3. large fpoonful of flour, keep it ftirring till it is fmooth ; then put in a pint of gravy, and a pint of red port or claret; a little horfe- radifh fcraped, eight cloves, four blades of mace, and a dozen corns of all-fpice ; tie them in a' little linen rag ; a bundle of fweet herbs, half a lemon, three anchovies, a little onion chopped very fine ; feafon with pepper, fait, and chyan pepper, to your lik- ing ; flew it for half an hour, then ftrain it through a fieve into the pan you intend to put your fifh in. Let your carp be well cleaned and fcaled ; then put the fifh in with the fauce, and flew them very gently for half an hour ; then turn them, and flew them fifteen minutes longer. Put in along with your fifh fome truffles and morels fcalded, fome pickled mufhrooms, an arti- choke bottom, and about a dozen large oyflers ; fqueeze the juice of half a lemon, flew it five minutes ; then put your carp in the difh, and pour all the fauce.over; garnifh with fried fippets, and the roe of the fifh done thus:—Beat the roe up well with the yolks of two eggs, a little flour, a little lemon-peel chopped fine, fome pepper, fait, and a little anchovy liquor. Have ready a pan of beef-dripping boiling ; drop the roe in to be 'as big as a crown piece; fry it of a light brown, and put it round the difh, • with / [