43° The Family Rhyjician. fubjedt, the water loading itfelf more and more with the active parts ; and that thefe loaded infulions are applicable to valuable purpofes in medicine, as they contain in a fmall compafs the finer, more fubtile, and adtive principles of vegetables, in a form readily mifcible with the fluids of the human body. Bitter Infujion. Take tops of the lefler centaury and camomile flowers, of each half an ounce ; yellow rind of lemon and orange-peel, carefully freed from the inner white part, of each two drachms. Cut them in fmall pieces, and infufe them in a quart of boiling water. For indigeftion, weaknefs of the ftomach, or want of appetite, a tea-cupful of this infufton may be taken twice or thrice a day, Infufion of the Bark. To an ounce of the bark, in powder, add four or five table- fpoonfuls of brandy, and a pint of boiling water. Let them in- fufe for two or three days. This is one of the beft preparations of the bark for weak flo- machs. In diforders where the corroborating virtues of that me- dicine are required, a tea-cupful of it may be taken two or three times a day. Infufion for the Balfy. Take of horfe-radilh root fhaved, muflard-feed bruifed, each four ounces ; outer rind of orange-peel, one ounce. Infufe them in two quarts of boiling water, in a clofe veflel, for twenty-four hours. In paralytic complaints, a tea-cupful of this warm ftimulating medicine may be taken three or four times a day. It excites the adtion of the folids, proves diuretic, and, if the patient be kept warm, promotes perfpiration. If two or three ounces of the dried leaves of marfh-trefoil be ufed inflead of the milliard, it will make the antijcorbutic vfuficn« Conferve of Red Rofes. Take a pound of red rofe buds, cleared of their heels; beat them well in a mortar, and, adding by degrees two pounds of double-refined fugar, in powder, make a conferve. After the fame manner are prepared the conferves of orange- peel, rofemary flowers, fea-wormw'ood, of the leaves of wood- forrel, &c. The conferve of rofes is one of the moll agreeable and ufeful preparations belonging to this clafs. A drachm or two ot it, diflolved in warm milk, is ordered to be given as a gentle re- flringent i