“Made Dijhes of Beef. 42 Mix all together, and fluff it into the beef at the parts from whence the bone was extradled, and alfo in feveraf of the lean parts. Skewer it round, and fallen it properly with a firing. Fut it into the pot, throw in a pint of red wine, and tie the pot down with a llrong paper. Put it into the oven for three or four hours, and when it comes out, if it is to be eaten hot, Ikim the fat from the gravy, and add a fpoonful of pickled muflirooms, and half an ounce of morels. Thicken it with flour and butter, dilh it up, and pour on your gravy. Garnifh it with force-meat balls. Farley, 91 f Another zvay. Cut fome of the round of beef into pieces, lard and fry them, put to them fome beef broth, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, a few pepper corns and cloves; flew this gently till tender, co- vered clofe, then Ikim off the fat, and add a few mufhrooms.— N, B. Water may be ufed inflead of broth. Mafon, 123. Beef A-la-daube, Take a rump and bone it, or a part of the leg-of-mutton piece, or a piece of the buttock ; cut fome fat bacon as long as the beef is thick, and about a quarter of an inch fquare ; take eight cloves, four blades of mace, a little all-fpice, and half a nutmeg beat very fine ; chop a good handful of parfley fine, fome fweet herbs of all forts chopped fine, and fome pepper and fait; roll the bacon in thefe, and then take a large larding-pin, or a fmall-bladed knife, and put the bacon through and through the beef with a larding-pin or knife. When that is done, pour it into the llew-pan with brown gravy enough to cover it. Chop three blades of garlick very fine, and put in fome f'refh mufh- rooms or champignons, two large onions, and a carrot: flew it gently for fix hours ; then take the meat out, llrain off the gravy, and fkim all the fat off. Put your meat and gravy into the pan again ; put a gill of white wine into the gravy, and if it wants feafoning, feafon with pepper and fait; flew them gently for half an hour; add fome artichoke bottoms, truffles and morels, oyflers, and a fpoonful of vinegar, put the meat into a foup- difh, and the fauce over it ; or you may put turnips cut in round pieces, and carrots cut round, fome fmall onions, and thicken the fauce ; then put the meat in, and flew it gently for half an hour with a gill of white wine. Some like lavoys or *