The Family Phyfician. 402 are often fuddenly feized with violent fits of vomiting. Ladly, vomiting is a common fymptom of pregnancy. In this cafe it generally comes on about two weeks after the floppage of the menfes, and continues during the firft three or four months. When vomiting proceeds from'a foul domach or indigedion, it is not to be coniidered as a difeafe, but as the cure of a dif- eafe. It ought therefore to be promoted by drinking lukewarm water, or thin gruel. If this does not put a dop to the vomit- ing, a dofe of ipecacuanha may be taken, and worked off with weak camomile-tea. When the obdrudtion of cuftomary evacuations occafion vo- miting, all means mult be ufed to reftore thefe difeharges; or, if that cannot be effected, their place mud be fupplied by others, as bleeding, purging, bathing the extremities in warm water, opening illues, fetons, perpetual bliders, &c. When vomiting is the effeft of pregnancy, it may generally be mitigated by bleeding, and keeping the body gently open. The bleeding however ought to be in (mall quantities at a time,, and the purgatives ihould be of the milded kind, as figs, dewed prunes, manna, or fenna. Pregnant women are mod apt to vomit in the morning, immediately after getting out of bed, which is owing partly to the change of podure, but more to the emptinefs of the domach. It may generally be prevented by taking a difh of coffee, tea, or fome light breakfad in bed. If vomiting proceeds from weaknefs of the domach, bitters will be of fervice. Peruvian bark infufed in wine or brandy, with as much rhubarb as will keep the body gently open, is an excellent medicine in this cafe. Habitual vomitings are fome- times alleviated by making oylters a principal part of diet. A vomiting which proceeds from acidities in the domach, is relieved by alkaline purges. The bed medicine of this kind is the magnefia alba, a tea-fpoonful of which may be taken in a difh of tea or a little milk, three or four times a day, or oftener if necedary, to keep the body open. When vomiting proceeds from violent padions, or affedtions of the mind, all evacuants mud be carefully avoided, efpccially vomits. Thefe are exceedingly dangerous. The patient in this cafe ought to be kept perfectly eaiy and quiet, to have the mind foothed, and to take fome gentle cordial, as negus, or a little brandy and water, to which a few drops of laudanum may uccafionally be added. SupprcJJkn