Made Dtjhes of Mutton. 99 Sauce—good gravy in the difh and in a boat, and currant jelly in j another. Le Maitre, 216. Mutton Kebobbed. Take a loin of mutton and joint it between every bone ; fea- fon it with pepper and fait moderately, grate a fmall nutmeg all over, dip them in the yolks of three eggs, and have ready crumbs (j of bread and fvveet herbs ; dip them in, and clap them together in the fame fhape again, and put it on a fmall fpit; roaft them be- fore a quick fire, fet a difh under, and bade it with a little piece of butter, and then keep baiting it with what comes from it, and throw fome crumbs of bread and fweet herbs all over them las it is roalting. When it is enough, take it up, lay it in the difh, and have ready half a pint of good gravy, and what comes from it. Take two fpoonfuls of catchup, and mix a tea-fpoon- i ful of flour with it, and put to the gravy ; Itir it together, give ,it a boil, and pour over the mutton. Note.—You muft obferve to take off all the fat of the infide, and the Ikin off the top of the meat, and fome of the fat if there >'be too much. When you put in what comes from your meat I into the gravy, obferve to pour out all the fat. Glaffe, 104. YMafon, 166. A Harrico of Mutton. Take a neck or loin of mutton, cut it into thick chops, flour rthem, and fry them brown in a little butter; take them out, and I lay them to drain on a fieve, then put them into a ftew-pan, and cover them with gravy; put in a whole onion, and a turnip or two, and flew them till tender ; then take out the chops, ftrain the liquor through a fieve, and fkim off all the fat; put a S little butter in the ftew-pan, and melt it with a fpoonful of flour; ftir it well till it is fmooth, then put the liquor in, and ftir it well all the time you are pouring it, or it will be in lumps ; put in your chops and a glafs of Lifbon; have ready fome carrot about three quarters of an inch long, and cut round with an apple-corer, lome turnips cut with a turnip fcoop, a dozen fmall onions all blanched well ; put them to your meat, and feafon with pepper and fait; ftew them gently for fifteen minutes, then take out the chops with a fork, lay them in your dilh, and ■pom- the ragoo over it. Gamilh with becMoot. H 2 Another