IOZ Made Difhes of Mutton. A Bafque of Mutton. Lay the caul of a leg of veal in a copper difli of the fize of a. fmall punch-bowl, and take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week. Having chopped it exceedingly fmall, take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumb of a penny loaf, the rind of half a lemon grated, half a pint of red wine, two ancho- vies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix it as you would faufage- meat, and lay it in the caul in the infide of the dilh. Fallen the caul, bake it in a quick oven, and when it comes out, lay your dilh upfide down, and turn the whole out. Pour over it brown gravy; pour venifon-fauce into a boat, and make ufe of pickles for garni fh. Raff aid, 107. Farley, 108, with very in- confiderable alterations. Fillet of Mutton zvith Cucumbers. Provide one large or two fmall necks of mutton, cut off a good deal of the fcrag, and the chine and fpay-bones clofe to the ribs, tear off the fat of the great end, and flat it with your cleaver, that it may lay neat in your dilh, foak it in a marinade, and roaft it wrapped up in paper well buttered. For your fauce in the fpring and fummer, quarter fome cucumbers nicely, and fry them in a bit of butter, after laying in the fame marinade, flew them in a ladle or two of your cullis, a morfel of fhallot or green onion, pepper and fait, a little minced parfley, the juice of a le- mon, and ferve it. The only difference between this and the celery-fauce is, inflead of frying your celery, boil it very tender in a little water, or broth if you have plenty, and flew it for a quarter of an hour. Be cautious you do not break the cucum- bers. Verral, 81, Fo french a hind Saddle of Mutton. It is the two chumps of the loins. Cut off the rump, ancf carefully lift up the Ikin with a knife. Begin at the broad end, but befureyou do not crack it nor take it quite off; then take fome dices of ham or bacon chopped fine, a few truffles, lome voting omens, fome parfley, a little thyme, fweet marjoram, winter favory, a little lemon-peel, all chopped fine, a little, mace and two or three cloves beat fine; half a nutmeg, and a Jit,tic pepper and fait, Mix all together, and throw over the