«74 Of Pies. them, and bake them in a quick oven. They require to be well baked. Rajfald, 155. An Egg Pie. Cover your difh with a good cruft, then have ready twelve eggs boiled hard, cut them in dices, and lay them in your pie, wadi and pick half a pound of currants, and throw all over the eggs; then beat up four eggs well, mixed with half a pint of white wine; grate in a fmall nutmeg, and make it pretty fweet with fugar. Lay a quarter of a pound of butter between the eggs, then pour in your wine and eggs, and cover your pie. Bake it half an hour, or till the cruft is done. A French Pie. ' Lay a pufF-pafte half an inch thick at the bottom of a deep difh ; lay a force-meat round the ddes of the difh; cut fome fweetbreads in pieces, three or four, according to the dze the pie is intended to be made; lay them in drft, then fome artichoke bottoms, cut into four pieces each, then fome cocks’-combs, (or they rnay be omitted] a few trufdes and morels, fome afparagus tops, and frefh mudirooms, if to be had, yolks of eggs boiled hard, and force-meat balls ; feafon with pepper and fait. Al- moft fill the pie with water, cover it, and bake it two hours. When it comes from the oven, pour in fome rich veal gravy, thickened with a very little cream and flour. Mafon, 357. A plain Goofe Pie. - Quarter your goofe, feafon it well, and lay it in a raifed cruft ; Cut half a pound of butter into pieces, and put it on the top; lay on the lid, and bake it gently. A rich Goofe Pie. Take a goofe and a fowl, bone them, and feafon them well; put the fowl into the goofe, and fome force-meat into the fowl; . put thefe into a raifed cruft, and fill the corners with a little force-meat; lay half a pound of butter on the top, cut into pieces; cover'it, and let it be well baked. N. B. Goofe pie is eaten cold. A Gib let Pie. Let two pair of giblets be nicely cleaned, put all but the livers into a fauce-pan, with two quarts of water, twenty corns of whole pepper, three blades of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a large onion; cover them clofe, and let them ftew very foftly till they are quite tender; then have a good cruft ready, co- ver your difti, lay a fine rump fteak at the bottom, feafoned with pepper and fait; then lay in your giblets with the livers,^ and . Im