Pancakes and Fritter>. lender, and all the water boiled away ; put it into a tin cullen- der, covei it clofe, and let it (land all night ; then break it very fmall ; take fourteen eggs, beat and drain them, and put them to the rice, with a quart ol cream, a nutmeg grated; beat it well together, then (hake in as much Hour as will hold them to- gether, and dir in as much butter as will fry them. Pancakes called a Quire of Paper. Take a pint of cream, fix eggs, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, three fpoonfuls of fack, one of orange flower water, a little fu- gar, half a nutmeg grated, and half a pound of melted butter al- mod cold ; mingle all well together, and butter the pan for the fird pancake. Let them run as thin as poflible. When they are jufl coloured, they are enough; and fo do with all the fine pancakes. Glaffe, 165. Cream Pancakes. Mix the yolks of two eggs with half a pint of cream, and two ounces of fugar; rub your pan with lard, and fry them as thin as you poflibly can. Grate fugar over them, and let them be ferved up hot. Pink-coloured Pancakes. Boil a large beet-root tender, and beat it fine in a marble mortar ; then add the yolks of four eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and three fpoonfuls of cream ; fweeten it to your tafie, and grate in half a nutmeg, and add a glafs of brandy; beat them all to- gether half an hour, fry them in butter, and garnilh them with green fweetmeats, preferved apricots, or green fprigs of myrtle. It is 3 pretty corner dilh for either dinner or fupper. Raffdld, 167. Clary Pancakes. Take three eggs, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, and a little fait, beat them well, and mix them w'ell with a pint of milk ; put lard into your pan ; when it is hot, pour in your batter as thin as poflible, then lay in fome clary leaves, walhed and dried, and pour a little more batter thin over them ; fry them a fine brown, find ferve them up. Common Fritters. Get fome large baking apples, pare them, and take out the pore ; cut them in round dices, and dip them in batter made as follows : Take: half a pint of ale, and two eggs, and beat them in as much flour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafie. Let it (land three or four minutes to rife. Having dipped your apples into this batter, fry them crifp, and ferve them up with