Of Roajling. 15 If you love them well clone, a wild-duck will take twenty- five minutes. Glajfe, 14. . A wigeon or ealterling will take near twenty minutes. Ma- fotit'l'l'l. . ,, r A teal will be done in fifteen minutes. Adajon, 273. Teal will take eleven or twelve minutes roalting. Glajfe, 14. To roajl Wild, Ducks or Teal. When your ducks are ready drafted, put in them afmall onion, pepper, fait, and a fpoonful of red wine; if the fire be good, they will roaft in twenty minutes ; make gravy of the necks and giz- zards, a fpoonful of fed wine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a ffic^ofi" an end of a lemon, one onion, and a little chyan pepper : boil it till it is wafted to half a pint, ftrain it through a hair fieve, put in a fpoonful of browning, pour it on your ducks, ferve them up with onion fauce in a boat. Garnifh your difli with rafpings of bread. Rajfald, 67. The hejl way to drefs a Wild Duck. . Firft half roaft it, then lay it in a difh, carve it, but leave the joints hanging together; throw a little pepper and fait, and fqueeze the juice of a lemon over it; turn it on the breaft, and prefs it hard with a plate, and add to its own gravy two or three fpoonfuls of good gravy; cover it clofe with another dilh, and fet it over a ftove ten minutes; then fend it to table hot in the difh it was done in, and garnifh with lemon. You may add a little red wine, and a fhallot cut fmall, if you like it; but it is apt to make the duck eat hard, unlefs you firft heat the wine, and pour it in juft as it is done. Glajfe, 81. To roajl Woodcocks or Snipes. Having put ydur birds on a little fpit, take a round of a threepenny loaf and toaft it brown; lay it in a difh. under the birds, and when you lay them down to the fire, bafte them with a little butter, and let the trail drop on the toaft. When they are roafted enough, put the toaft in the difli, and lay the birds on it. Pour about a quarter of a pint of gravy into the difh, and fet it over a lamp or chafing-difti for three or four minutes, when the whole will be in a proper condition to be fent.to die table.