Of Boiling'. When it boils, put in your filh for half a minute, then take it out for a minute or fwo. When you have done it four times, boil it till it is enough. When you take it out of the filh-pan, fet it over the water to drain ; cover it well with a clean cloth dipped in hot water ; fry fome fmall fifhes, or a few flices of felmon, and lay round it. Garnilh with fcraped horfe-radilh and fennel. Rajfald, 23. Another way. Take a bit of falmon, of any bignefs, without being fcaled; tie it tip in a cloth, or with packthread; put jt in a velfel much ,of its bignefs, with a good bit of butter or broth, and half red wine, fait, whole pepper, a faggot of parlley, thyme, laurel, two or three cloves, bits of carrots, and fliced onions. When done, drain it, and ferve it upon a napkin, and the fauces in boats. Clermont, 358. Dalrymple, 294. To boil a Cod's Head and Shoulders. Take out the gills and the blood clean from the bone ; wafh the head very clean, rub over it a little fait, and a glafs of alle- gar; then lay it on your fifh-plate. When your water boils, throw in a good handful of fait, with a glafs of allegar; then put in your filh, and let it boil gently half an hour : if it is a large one, three quarters. Take it up very carefully, and flrip the fkin nicely off; fet it before a brifk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafte it well with butter. When the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs. You mull keep balling it all the time to make it froth well. When it is a fine white brown, difh it up, and garnilh it with a lemon cut in flices, fcraped horfe-radifh, barberries, a few fmall filh fried and laid round it, or fried oyflers. Cut the roe and liver in flices, and lay over it a little of the loblter out of the lauce in lumps, and then ferve it. Rajfald, 21. Farley, 27. Another way. Wafh it, drew fait over it, put vinegar and fait into the wa- ter. If the head be large, it will take an hour’s boiling. Oyfter- fauce, and white-fauce, or what other is agreeable. The filh may be grilled in the following manner:—Strip off the fkin, when boiled, fet it before the fire, ihake flour over it, and bafte