Made DiJJies of Veal. 82 fmall beer as will make it of a proper confidence, then add about a table-fpoonful of fine oil; when well mixed, put the ears to it ; have ready a dew-pan with hog’s-lard properly hot, put in the cars one by one, with as much of the butter as will dick to them ; fry of a fine colour, and ferve them with fried parfley ; they may alfo be duffed with good, force-meat. Indead of the above batter, you may bade them with yolks of eggs and bread- crumbs. Dairymple, 80. Calf's Ears houfewife fafhion. Make a fauce with a little jelly broth and white wine, a little butter, chopped parfley, fhallots, pepper, and fait; boil it to a thick confidence ; when done; add the juice of half a Seville orange, and ferved it. upon brazed ears. Clermont, 86; A Midcalf. ■ Stuff a calf’s heart with force-meat, and fend it to the oven in-an earthen diih, with a little water under it. Lay butter over it, and dredge it with flour. Boil half the liver, and all the lights, for half an hour; then chop them fmall, and put them in a tof- ling pan, with a pint of gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, and one of lemon-pickle. Squeeze in half a lemon, feafon with pepper and fait, and thicken with a good piece of butter rolled in flour. When you difh it up, pour the mince-meat in the bottom, and have the other half of the liver ready fried of a fine brown, and cut in thin flices, and little pieces of bacon. Set the heart in the middle, and lay the liver and bacon over the mince-meat. Farley, 103. Calf's Heart roofed. Having made a force-meat of the crumb of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet chopped fmall, a little parfley, fweet marjoram, and lemon-peel, mixed up with a little pepper, ‘fait, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg ; fill the heart with it, and lay a veal caul over the fluffing, or a fheet of writing-paper to keep it in its place. Lay it in a Dutch oven, and keep turning it till it is thoroughly roaffed. When you difh it up, lay flices of lemon round it, and pour good melted butter over it.