298 Of Collaring. it in a large copper of water ; and if it is a large collar, it will take fix hours boiling, but a fmall one will be done in five. Take it out, and put it in a prefs till it is cold ; but if you have no prefs, put it between two boards, and a large weight upon it tilhit is cold. Then take it out of the cloth, and cut it into Dices. Garnifh with raw parfley. OlaJJe, 262. Farley, 254. To Collar flat Ribs of Beef. Bone your beef, lay it fiat upon a table, and beat it half an hour with a wooden mallet till it is quite foft; then rub it with fix ounces of brown fugar, a quarter of a pound of common fait, and an ounce of falt-petre beat fine; then let it lie ten days, turning it once every day; then take it out, and put it in warm water for eight or ten hours ; then lay it flat upon a table, with the outward Ikin down, and cut it in rows, a-crofs, about the breadth of your finger ; but be careful not to cut the oulfide ikin ; then fill one nick with chopped parfley, the fecond with fat pork, the third with crumbs of bread, mace, nutmeg, pep- per, and fait, then parfley again, and fo on till you have filled all your nicks; then roll it up tight, and bind it round with coarfe broad tape; wrap it in a cloth, and boil it four or five hours ; then take it up, and hang it up by one end of the firing to keep it round ; fave the liquor it was boiled in, the next day fkim it, and add to it half as much allegar as you have liquor, a little more mace, long pepper, and fait; then put in your beef and keep it for ufe. N. B. When you fend it to table, cut a little off at each end, and it will be in diamonds of different colours, and look very pretty; fet it upon a dilh as you do brawn. If you make a frefh pickle every week, it will keep a long time. Raffald, 303. To Collar a Calf’s Head. Get a calf’s head with the fkin on, feald off the hair, par-boil the head, and bone it ;- the fore-part mufi be flit; boil the tongue, peel it, and cut that and the palate into thin flices, put them and the eyes into the middle of the head ; take fome pepper, fait, cloves, and mace, and beat them; add fome nutmeg grated, fealded parfley, thyme, favory, and fweet marjoram, cut very fmall ; beat the yolks of three or four eggs, fpread them over the head, and then firew on the feaToning; roll it up very tight, and tie it round with tape; boil it gently for three hours in as much water as will cover it. When the head is taken out, fea- fon the pickle with fait, pepper, and fpice, and add to it a pint