Of Soups. 193 turnip, with a blade or two of mace, and five quarts of water; fet it over the fire, and let it boil gently till it is reduced to two quarts; flrain it through a hair fieve into a clear pot, then put in fix ounces of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a pint of thick cream, and chyan pepper to your tafte. Have ready three fmall French rolls, made for that purpofe, the fize of a fmall tea-cup ; if they are larger, they will not look well, and drink up too much of the foup; blanch a few Jordan almonds, and cut them lengthways, (tick them round the edge of the rolls flankways, then flick them all over the top of the rolls, and put them in the tureen. When difhed up, pour the foup upon the rolls. Thefe rolls look like a hedge-hog. Some French cooks give this foup the name of Hedge-hog Soup. Raffald, 6. For- ty* lSl> Soup Sante, or Gravy Soup. Put fix good rafhers of lean ham in the bottom of a flew-pan ; then put over it three pounds of lean beef, and over the beef three pounds of lean veal, fix onions cut in flices, two carrots, and two turnips fliced, two heads of celery, and a bundle of fweet herbs, fix cloves, and two blades of mace ; put a little wa- ter at the bottom, draw it very gently till it flicks, then put in a gallon of boiling water; let it flew for two hours, feafon with fait, and flrain it off; then have ready a carrot cut in fmall pieces of two inches long, and about as thick as a goofe-quill, a turnip, two heads of leeks, two heads of celery, two heads of endive cut acrofs, two cabbage-lettuces cut acrofs, a very little forrel, and chervil; put them in a flew-pan, and fweat them for fifteen minutes gently; then put them in your foup, boil it up gently fpr ten minutes 5 put it in your tureen, with a cruft of . French roll. N. B. You may boil the herbs in two quarts of water for ten minutes, if you like them beft fo ; your foup will be the clearer. GlaJJe, 128. Farley, 161. Soup Sante, with Herbs. Of herbs or vegetables, you mufl make fhift with celery and endives in the winter, but add a lettuce, if you can get it; provide a duckling,- or a chicken neatly blanched, and boil it in ■. your foup, which is nothing more than broth or gravy. With ' celery, &c. cut in bits about an inch long ; let it boil gently O for