77 Made DijJjes of Veal. half a pint of red wine; let the wine be well boiled in the gravy ; add to it fome fweetbreads parboiled and cut-in dices, fome cocks’- combs, oyders, mufhrooms, truffle^, and morels ; let thefe flew till they are tender. When the head is dewed, take it up, put it into a difh, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; then Hit the tongue, cut it into fmall pieces, cut the eyes in pieces alfo, and chop the brains ; put thefe into a baking-dilh, and pour fome of the ragoo over them ; then take the head, lay it upon the ragoo, pour the red over it, and on that fome melted butter ; then fcrape fome fine Parmefan cheefe, drew it over the butter, and fend it to the oven. It does not want much baking, but only requires to be of a fine brown. Ma- J'on, 154. * To few a Calf's Head. Firdwadt it, and pick it very clean, lay it in water for an hour, take out the brains, and with a fharp knife carefully take out the bones and the tongue, but be careful you do' not break the meat; then take out the two eyes, and take two pounds of veal and two pounds of beef fuet, a very little thyme, a good deal of lemon- peel minced, a nutmeg grated, and two anchovies ; chop all very well together, grate two dale rolls, and mix all together with the yolks of four eggs ; fave enough of this meat to make about twenty balls, take half a pint of frefh mulhrooms .clean peeled and wafhed, the yolks of fix eggs chopped, half a pint of oyders clean wafhed, or pickled cockles; mix all thefe together, but fird dew your oyders, put the force-meat into the head and clofe it, tie it tight with a packthread, and put it into a deep dew-pan; and put to it two quarts of gravy, with a blade or two of mace. Cover it clofe, and let it dew two hours ; in the mean time beat up the brains with fome lemon-peel cut fine, a little parfiey chopped, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg; have fome dripping boiling, fry half the brains in little cakes, and fry the balls, keep them both hot by the fire ; take half an ounce of truffles and morels, then drain the gravv the head was dewed in, put the truffles and morels to it with the liquor, and a few mufh- rooms; boil all together, then put in the red of the brains that are not fried, dew them together for a minute or two, pour it oyer the head, and lay the fried brains and bails round it. Gar- nifh with lemon. You may fry about twelve oyders and put over. Glafe, 55. Mrs.