24° Of Sauces. Parjley and Butter. Tie lip fome parfley in a bunch, wafli it, and put it into fome boiling water with a little fait ; after it has boiled up very quick two or three times, take it out and chop it very fine ; then mix it with fome melted butter. Poor Man's Sauce. Cut fome young onions into water, with fome chopped parf- ley. It is very good with roaded mutton. Another way, called by the French, Sauce a PauVre Homme. Slice half a lemon, boil it in a little broth with two or three chopped fhallots, pepper and fait, and a fpoonful of oil; and ferve it in a fauce-boat. Clermont, 37, Lemon Sauce for boiled Fowls. Take a lemon and pare off the rind, cut it into dices, and take the kernels out, cut it into fquare bits ; blanch the liver of the fowl and chop it fine ; mix the lemon and liver together in a boat, and pour fome hot melted butter on it, and dir it up. Boiling it will make it go to oil. Muforoom Sauce for white Fowls of all forts. Take about a quart of frefh mufhrooms, well cleaned and Wafhed, cut them in two, put them in a dew-pan, with a little butter, a blade of mace, and a little fait; dew it gently for half an hour, then add a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs beat very well, and keep dirring it till it boils up; then fqueeze half a lemon, put it over your fowls or turkies", or in bafons, or in a difh, with a piece of French bread, fird buttered, then loaded brown, and jud dip it in boiling water; put it in the difh, and mufhrooms over. Glajfe, 70. . Farley, 146. Celery Sauce. Wadi and clean ten heads of celery, cut off the green tops, and take out the outdde dalks, cut them into thin bits, and boil it in gravy till it is tender; thicken it with dour and butter, and .pour it over your meat. A fhoulder of mutton, or a lhoulder of veal, roafted, is very good with this fauce. Raf- fald, 104. Caper Sauce. Take fome capers, chop half of them, put the red in whole ; chop alfo a little parlley very fine, with a little bread grated very fine, and fome fait; put thefe into butter melted very fmooth. Some only chop the capers a little, and put them into the butter. Farley, 139, from Major, 320.