Made Difbes of Veal. 63 would have foup made of it ; if you would only have fauce to eat with the veal, you mult ftew it till there is juft as much as you would have for fauce, and feafon it with fait to your palate ; take out the onion, fweet herbs, and fpice, and pour it all toge- ther into your difh. It is a fine difli. If you have no peas, pare three or four cucumbers, fcoop out the pulp, and cut it into little pieces, and take four or five heads of celery, clean walked, and cut the white part fmall; when you have no lettuces, take the little hearts of favoys, or the little young fprouts' that grow on the old cabbage ftalks, about as big as the top of your thumb. N. B. If you would make a very fine difli of it, fill the in- fide of your lettuce with force-meat, and tie the top clofe with a thread; ftew it till there is but juft enough for fauce; fet the lettuce in the middle, and the veal round, and pour the fauce over it. Garnilh your difh with rafped bread, made into figures with your fingers. This is the cheapeft way of drafting a bread: of veal to be good, and ferve a number of people. Glafic, 29. Majon, 142. To collar a Breajl of Veal. Take the fineft breaft of veal, bone it, and rub it over with the yolks of two eggs, and ftrew over it fome crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon, a little pepper and fait, a handful of chopped parfley, roll it up tight, and bind it hard with twine ; wrap it in a cloth, and boil it one hour and an half; then take it up to cool. When a little cold, take off the cloth, and clip off the twine carefully, left you open the veal ; cut' it in five flices, lay them on a difh with the fweetbread boiled and cut in thin flices, and laid round them, with ten or twelve force-meat balls ; pour over your white fauce, and garnifh with barberries or green pickles. The white fauce mufl be made thus*:—take a pint of good veal gravy, put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a tea-lpoonful of mufhroom powder, or a few pickled mu Ill- rooms; give it a gentle boil; then put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs beat fine ; fhake it over the fire after the eggs and cream are in, but do not let it boil, it will curdle the cream. It is proper for a top difh at night, or a fide difh for dinner. Raff aid^ 91.