them in a fauce-pan of water, with an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs; boil it till it is quite tender, then have ready a bi- fhamel made thus: Take fome lean ham, cut it in thin pieces, and put it in a ftew-pan, and fome veal, having firft cut off the fat, put it over the ham ; cut an onion in flices, fome carrot and turnip, a little thyme, cloves, and mace, and fome frefh mufh- rqoms chopped ; put a little milk at the bottom, and draw it gently over the fire. Be careful it does not fcorch, then put in 'a quart of milk, and half a pint of cream; flew it gently for an hour, thicken it with a little flour and milk, feafon it with fait, and a very little chyan pepper bruifed fine; then flrain it off through a tammy ; put your tripe into it, tofs it up, and add fome force-meat balls, mufhrooms, and oyfters blanched; then put it into your difh, and garnifh with fried oyfters, or fweet- breads, or lemons. Glajfe, 24. Another way. Cut fome nice white tripe into flips, put it into fome boiled gravy with a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour ; ftir it till the butter is melted; add a little white wine, lemon- peel grated, chopped parfley, pepper, and fait, pickled mufh- rooms, or lemon-juice; fhake all together ; flew it a little. Majon, 135. To fricajfee Ox Palates. Clean your palates very well, put them into a ftew-pot, and cover them with water, fet them in the oven for three or four hours. When they come from the oven, ftrip off the fkins, and cut them in fquare pieces; feafon them with mace, nutmeg, chyan, and fait; mix a fpoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your palates, and fry them a light brown, then put them in a fieve to drain. Have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful of browning, and a few mufhrooms ; thicken it well with flour and butter, pour it hot on your difh, and lay in your palates. Garnifh with fried parf- ley and barberries. Raffaldy 120. Another way. Boil and peel your palates, and cut them in fmall fillets ; put them into a ftew-pan with a little butter, a flice of ham, mufh- rooms, a nofegay*, two cloves, a little tarragon, a glafs of white wine, and broth ; fimmer them till they are quite tender ; add fait, pepper, and a little chopped parfley. When ready to ferve, # A faggot of parfley, onions, Ihallots, &c.