Made Difhes of Pork, &c. 126 faggot of fweet herbs, two cloves of garlick, four cloves, and two pounds of hogs’-lard ; when near done, tafte the braze, and add fait, if necclTary ; when it gives under the finger, it is done ; let it cool in the braze ^ ferve cold upon a napkin. You may garnifh with bay-leaves or parfley, according to fancy. N. B. You may drefs it without the hogs’-lard, as directed, Dalrymple, 143. A Hog's Head like Brawn. Wafii it well, boil it till the bones will come out; when cold, put the inlide of the cheeks together, with fait between ; put the ears round the fides, put the cheeks into a cloth, prefs them into a fieve, or any thing round, put on a weight for two days ; have ready a pickle of fait and water, with about a pint of malt boiled together ; when cold, put in the head. Ham a-la-braze. Take off the (kin, clear the knuckle, and lay it in water to frefhen. Then tie it about with a Itring, and take fiices of ba- con and beef; beat and feafon them well with fpices and fweet herbs, and lay them in the bottom of a kettle, with onions, parfnips and carrots diced, with fome chives and parfiey. Lay in your ham the fat fide uppermoft, and cover it with dices of beef, and over that with dices of bacon. Then lay on fome iliced roots and herbs, the fame as under it. Cover it, and flop it clofe with pafte. Put fire both over and under it, and let it flew tw'elve hours w'ith a very dow fire. Put it into a pan, dredge it w'ell wuth grated bread, and brown it with a hot iron ; or put it into the oven, and bake it an hour. Then ferve it upon a clean napkin. Garnifh with raw pardey. It it is to be eaten hot, make a ragoo thus:—take a veal fweetbread, fome livers of fowls, cocks’-combs, mudirooms, and truffles. Tofs them up in a pint of good gravy, feafoned with fpice to your tade ; thick- en it with a piece of butter rolled in dour, and a glafs of red wine. Then browm your ham as above, and let it ftand a quarter of an hour to drain the fat out. Take the liquor it was dewed in, ftrain it, fkim off all the fat, put it into the gravy, and boil it up with a fpoonful of browning. Sometimes you may ferve it up