Made Dijhes, of Beef. 57 Cold Roajl Beef, family fajhion. Slice three or four onions, and fry them in butter ; when done, add a little broth, three fhallots chopped, pepper and fait; then put dices of cold beef to it; boil for a moment; when ready, add a liafon made of three yolks of eggs and a little vinegar. Cold beef is alfo very good with cold fauce made of chopped pariley, fhallots, vinegar, oil, muftard, minced anchovy, &c. Clermont, 68. "To make Collops of Cold Beef. If you have any cold infide of a firloin of beef, take off all the fat, cut it very thin in little bits, cut an onion very fmall, boil as much water or gravy as you think will do for fauce •, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Let the water boil, then put in the meat, with a good piece ot butter rolled in flour, {hake it round, and ftir it. When the fauce is thick and the meat done, take out the fweet herbs, and pour it into your difh. They do better than frefh meat. Glajfet 120. 'To Jlew Neats’ Tongues. ‘ Put two tongues in water juft fufficient to cover them, and let them ftew two hours. Then peel them, and put them in again with a pint of ftrong gravy, half a pint of white wnne, a bundle of fweet herbs, a little pepper and fait, fome mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied in a muflin rag ; a fpoonful of capers chop- ped, turnips and carrots fliced, and a piece of butter rolled iri flour. Let all ftew together very foftly over a flow fire for two hours, and then take out the fpice and lweet herbs, and fend the difh to table. You may, juft as you like, leave out the turnips and carrots, or boil them by themfelves, and lay them in a difh. Farley, 67. Neat’s Tongue a la Remoulade—Neat’s Tongue with a re- liJJjing Sauce. Scald a frefti tongue and peel it, lard it with large pieces of bacon, boil it in the ftock pot, or in broth, with a little fait and a nofegay; fplit it, but not quite in two; make a fauce with parfley, fhallots, capers, anchovies, all very finely chopped, a 2 ' little