14S Made Difhes of Poultry, &c. Chickens after the Scotch manner. Singe the chickens, wafli and then dry them in a clean cloth ; Cut them into quarters, and put them into a fauce-pan with juft water enough to cover them ; put in a little bunch of parfley, a little chopped parlley, and a blade or two of mace, cover them clofe down ; beat up five or fix eggs with the whites, and when the liquor boils, pour the eggs into it. When the chickens are enough, take out the bunch of. parlley, and fend them to table with the liquor in a deep difh. They muft be well Ikimmed while they are doing. Mafon, 267. Chickens roofed with Force-meat and Cucumbers. Take two chickens, drefs them very neatly, break the breaft- bone, and make force-meat thus:—Take the flefh of a fowl, and of two pigeons, with fome flices of ham or bacon ; chop them all well together, take the crumb of a penny-loaf foaked in milk and boiled, then fet to cool. When it is cold, mix it all together; feafon it with beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and a little fait, a very little thyme, fome parfley, and a little lemon- peel, with the yolks of two eggs ; then fill your fowls, fplit them, and tie them at both ends. ^After you have papered the breaft, take four cucumbers, cut them in two, and lay them in l'alt and water two or three hours before ; then dry them, arfd fill them with fome of the force-meat (which you muft take care to fave)< and tie them with a packthread ; flour them, and fry them of a fine brown. When your chickens are enough, lay them in the dilh, and untie your cucumbers, but take care the meat does not come out; then lay them round the chickens, with the flat fide downwards, and the narrow end upwards. You muft have fome rich fried gravy, and pour into the dilh ; then garnifh with lemon. Note.—One large fowl done this way, with the cucum- bers laid round it, vlooks pretty, and is a very good dilh. Ghfj'e, 77*, ^ . A Gurrey the Indian way. Take two final! chickens, Ikin them, and cut them as for a fricaffee, walh them'clean, and flew them in about a quart of water for about five minutes, then ftrain off the liquor, and put c the*