Made Di/hes of Beef 46 Another way* 4 Take a Piece or pieces of beef, of what bignefs you pleafe; lard it with coarfe pieces of bacon, feafoned with fpices; boil it in broth, with a little white wine, a faggot of parfley, fweet herbs, a Ciove of gailick, Oiallots, four cloves, whole pepper and fait. W hen tender, hit the fauce, fkim it well, and reduce it to a glaze, with which you glaze the larded fide ; and ferve it upon what ftewed herbs you pleafe. Dalrymple, 65. To ragoo a piece of Beef 1 ake a large piece of the flank, which has fat at the top, cut fquare, or any piece that is all meat, and has fat at the top, but no bones. The rump does well. Cut all nicely off the bone (which makes fine foup); then take a large ftew-pan, and with a good piece of butter fry it a little brown all over, flouring your meat well before you put it into the pan ; then pour in as much gravy as will cover it, made thus :—take about a pound of coarfe beef, a little piece of veal cut fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome whole black pepper, and white pepper, two or three large blades of mace, four or five cloves, a piece of carrot, a little piece of bacon, fteeped in vinegar a little while, and a cruft of bread toafted brown ; put to this a quart of white wine, and let it boil till half is wafted. While this is making, pour a quart of boiling water into the ftew-pan, cover it clofe, and let it be ftew- ing foft]y ; when the gravy is done, ftrain it, pour it into the pan where the beef is, take an ounce of truffles and morels cut fmall, fome frelh or dried mulhrooms cut fmall, two fpoonfuls of catch- up, and cover it clofe. Let all this ftew till the fauce is rich and thick ; then have ready fome artichoke bottoms cut into four, and a few pickled mulhrooms; give them a boil or two, and when your meat is tender, and your fauce quite rich, lay the meat into a dilh, and pour the fauce over it. You may add a fweet-bread cut in fix pieces, a palate ftevved tender cut into little pieces, fome cocks’-combs, and a few force-meat balls. Thefe are a great addition, but it will be good without. Note—For variety, when the beef is ready, and the gravy put to it, add a large bunch of celery, cut fmall and walhed clean, two fpoonfuls of catchup, and a glafs of red wine. Omit all the other ingredients. When the meat and celery are tender, and the fauce is rich and good, ferve it up. It is alfo very good this way:—