The Family Phyjician. POWDERS. Worm Powders. Take of tin reduced into a fine powder, an ounce ; yEthiop’s mineral, two drachms. Mix them well together, and divide the. whole into fix dofes] One of thefe powders may be taken in a little fyrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. After they have been all ufed, the fol- lowing anthelmintic purge may be proper. Purging Worm Powder. Take of powdered rhubarb, a fcruple ; fcammony and calo- mel, of each five grains. Rub them together in a mortar for one dofe. For children, the above dofes muff be lelfened according to their age- If the powder of tin be given alone, its dofe may be confide- rably increafed. The late Dr. Allton gave it to the amount of two ounces in three days, and fays, when thus adminiftered, that it proved an egregious anthelmintic. He purged his patients both before they took the powder and afterwards. Pozuder for the Tape Worm. Early in the morning the patient is to take, in any liquid, two or three drachms, according to his age and conftitution, of the root of male fern reduced into a fine powder. About two hours afterwards, he is to take of calomel and refin of fcammony, each ten grains ; gum gamboge, fix grains. Thefe ingredients mult be finely powdered and given in a little fyrup, honey, treacle, or any thing that is molt agreeable to the patient. He is then to walk gently about, now and then drinking a difh £f weak green tea till the worm is palfed. If the-powder of the fern produces naufea, or ficknefs, it may be removed by fucking the juice of an orange or lemon. This medicine, which had been long kept a fecrct abroad, for the cure of the tape-worm, was fome time ago purchafed by the French king, and made public for the benefit of mankind. Not having had an opportunity of trying it, I can fay nothing from experience concerning its efficacy. It feems, however, from its ingredients, to be an a£live medicine, and ought to be taken with care. The dofe here preferibed is fulficicnt for the ftrongeff patient; it mult, therefore, be reduced according to the age and conftitution. AJlringtnl