44° 'The Family Fhyficlan. “ duces contractions, may the perfon be faid to be in a recoverable “ (hue; but when that effeCl has ceafed, there can no doubt remain of {he party being abiolutely and politively dead.” If convulfions, or other figns of returning life appear, a tea- fpoonful or two of warm water may be put into the mouth; and if the power of (wallowing be returned, a little warm wine, or brandy and water may be given. When this gradual approach towards recovery is obferved, and breathing returned, let the perfon be put into a warm bed, and if difpoled to fleep, as is generally the cafe, give no didurb- ance, and he will awake almod perfectly recovered. The above methods are to be ufed with vigor for three or four hours; for it is a vulgar and dangerous opinion to fuppofe perfons are irreco- verable, becaufe life does not foon make its appearance; an opinion that has configned an immenfe number to the grave, who might have been reftored to life by refolution and perfeverance. Bleeding diould never be employed in fuch cafes, unlefs by the di- rection of one of the medical aililtants, or fome other refpeCtable gen- tleman of the faculty, who has paid attention to tlie fubjeCt of fuf- pended animation. On the firlt alarm of any perfon being drowned, let hot water, flour of muftard, warm blankets, hot flannels, flat bottles filled with hot water, a heated warming-pan, bellows, brandy, hartfhorn drops, and an electrifying machine, be procured. Thefe articles being immedi- ately employed, may be productive of reftoring many ufeful and valu- able lives. The common people will often reftore life by purfuing the plans now recommended; but if gentlemen of the faculty can be obtained, their afliftance fhould be immediately requefted, as their (kill will lead them judicioufly to vary the methods of treatment, and, in a variety of acci- dents, many more lives will be reftored to the community and to their families. The above means of redoration have proved efficacious in apparent fudden death, by convulfions, fuft'ocations, intoxication, hanging, in- tenfe cold, and the tremendous ftroke of lightning.—When perfons are froft bitten, they fhould be rubbed witli fnow, previous to their being brought into a warm room. In fuffocation, occafioned by the fumes of fulplntr, charcoal, &c. dafhing the face and bread with cold water has been known to rcflore life. *** Publicans and others, who have been deterred from receiving the apparently dead into their houfes, or giving immediate afliftance, under an apprehenfion of legal punifhment or penalties, are now in- formed, that the Committee have obtained the following opinion of an eminent Special Pleader:—“ It is a mifdemeanour by the common “ law, and an indictable offence, to prevent the Coroner from doing “ his duty, or to obdruCthim in the execution of it. But the med- “ dling with a body apparently dead, for the purpofe of preferving life, “ is not a uanfgreflion of the law in either of thefe refpefts; nor do I “ know any ftatutc by which fuch an aCt is prohibited.”—All perfons who immediately admit the drowned, or otherwife fuffocated, and af- ford aflidance in the various indances of apparent death, will be in- demnified by the Managers of this lnftitution; and are informed that the charges of burial, in unfuccefsful cafes, will be paid by the Royal Humane Society. 5 INDEX.