Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. i47 feveral limes through a jelly-bag till it is very clear. Then put a little in the bottom of a bowl large enough to hold your chickens, and when they are cold, and the jelly fet, lay them in with their breads down. Then fill your bowl quite full with the reft of your jelly, which you mult take care to keep from fetting, fo that when you pour it into the bowl it will not break. Let it ftand all night ; and the next day put your bafon into warm water, pretty near the top. As loon as you find it loofe in the bafon, lay your difh over it, and turn it out whole. Farley, 120. Chickens Cavalier fajhiott. Trufs as for boiling as many chickens as you want; marinade them two hours in oil, with dices of peeled lemon, pardey, fhallots, a clove of garlick, thyme, laurel, fait, and fpices : tie them up in dices of lard and paper, with as much of the ma-* rinade as you can ; broil on a dow fire. When done, take off the paper, lard, and herbs. Serve with what fauce you think proper. Dairy triple, 188. To make artificial Chickens or Pigeons. Make a rich force-meat with veal, lamb, or chickens, feafori- ed with pepper, fait, pardey, a fliallot, a piece of fat bacon, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg ; work it up in the fhape of pigeons or chickens, putting the foot of the bird you intend it for in the middle, fo as juft to appear at the bottom ; roll the force-meat very well in the yolk of an egg, then in the crumbs of bread, fend them to the oven, and bake it a light brown ; do not let them touch each other ; put them on tin plates well but- tered, as you fend them to the oven. You,may fend them to table dry, or gravy in the dilh, juft as you like.’ Raffald, 126. Farley, 120. Chicken in Jelly„ Pour fome jelly into a bowl ; when cold, lay in a cold ro&fted chicken, bread: downward ; fill up the bolvl with jelly juft warm, but as little as podible fo as not to be 'fet ; when quite cold, fet the bowl in warm water, juft to loofen the jelly, turn it out. Put the chicken into the jelly the day before it is wanted. L 2 Chickent