£76 Of Pies. fmall onion, and a little parfiey, and add a little grated bread: feafon with a little fait, pepper, fpice, and the yolks of two raw eggs; make this into balls, then make fome good puff-pafte, butter the difh, lay in the tails, claws, and balls; cover them with butter, pour in a little fifh gravy, and cover the pic. Have a little fifh gravy ready to put into it when it is taken out of the oven. Mafon, 364. Mince Pies. Shred tbree pounds of fuet very fine, and chop it as fmall as poffible ; take two pounds of raifins {toned and chopped very fine, the fame quantity of currants, nicely picked, wafhed, rub- bed, and dried at the fire. Pare half an hundred fine pippins, core them, and chop them fmall ; take half a pound of fine fugar, and pound it fine ; a quarter of an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and two large nutmegs, all beat tine; put all together into a large pan, and mix it well toge- ther with half a pint of brandy and half a pint of fack ; put it down clofe in a (lone pot, and it will keep good three or four months. When you make your pies, take a little difh, fome- what larger than a foup-plate, lay a very thin crult all over it; ■Jay a thin layer of. meat, and then a thin layer of citron, cut very thin, then a layer of mince-meat, and a layer of orange- peel cut thin ; over that a little meat, fqueeze half the juice of a fine Seville orange or lemon, lay on your cruff, and bake it nice- ly. Thefe pies eat very fine cold. If you make them in little patties, mix your meat and fweetmeats accordingly. If you choofe meat in your pies, parboil a neat's tongue, peel it, chop the meat as fine as poffible, and mix with the reft ; or two pounds of the infide of a firloin of beef boiled. But when you ufe meat, the quantity of fruit mult be doubled. GlaJJ'e, 148. Another way. Take a neat’s tongue, and boil it two hours, then fkin it, and chop it exceedingly fmall. Chop very fmall three pounds of beef fuet, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of currants clean wafhed, picked, and well dried before the fire, a pound of jar raifins ftoned and chopped fmall, and a pound of powder fu- gar. Mix them all together with half an ounce oi mace, as much nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, and a pint of French brandy. Make a rich pufF-pafte, and as you fill up the pie, put in a little candied citron and orange, cut in little pieces. What mince-meat you