¥ reserving* 353 your jar, with brandy-papers over; tie them down with a blad- der, and keep them for ufe. N. B. You may preferve whole oranges, without carving, the fame way, only do not let them boil fo long, and keep them in a very thin fyrup at firft, or it will make them fhrink and wi- ther. Always obferve to put fait in the water for either oranges preferved, or any kind of orange chips. Raffald, 232. T9 preferve Morel Cherries. Gather your cherries when they are full ripe, take off the ftalks, and prick them with a pin. To every pound of cherries, put a pound and an half of loaf-fugar. Beat part of your fugar, ftrew it over them, and let them hand all night. Diftolve the reft of your fugar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a llow fire, and put in the cherries with the fugar, and give them a gentle fcald; then take them carefully out, boil your fyrup till it is thick, and pour it upon your cherries. Farkjt 338> To preferve Green-gage Plums. Gather fome of your fineft plums juft before they are ripe, and put them into a pan with a layer of vine-leaves under them, then put a layer of vine leaves over them, and a layer of plums* on them, and proceed in the fame manner till your pan is al- moft full, then fill it with water, and fet them on a llow fire. When they are hot, and the fkins begin to rife, take them off, take the fkins carefully off, and put them on a fieve as you do , them then lay them in the fame water, with a layer of leaves f as before ; cover them clofe, that no fteam may get out, and' han£ them a confiderable diftance from the fire till they appear green, which will be five or fix hours, or longer ; then take them carefully up, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, (make a good fyrup, boil them gently in it twice a day for two days, then take them out, and put them in a fine clean fyrup ; cover them with brandy-paper, and keep them for ufe. To preferve while Citrons. Having cut fome white citrons into pieces, put them into fait and water, and let them remain there four or five hours, then take them out, and walh them in clean water ; boil them till they are tender, drain them, and cover them with clarified fugar; after letting them (land twenty-four hours, drain the fyrup and boil it fmooth. When cold, put in the citrons, and let them Hand till the nexfiday; then boil the fyrup quite fmooth, and pour