302- Of farts, Cujlards, and CheefecakeSi ever you may want to put in them, and put fugar at the top,* Currants and rafpberries make an exceeding good tart, and do not require much’baking. Cherries require but little baking; goofeberries, to look red, mult ftand a good while in the oven. Apricots, if green, require more baking than when ripe. Quarter or halve ripe apricots, and put in fome of the kernels. Preferved fruit, as damafeenes and bullace, require but little bak- ing ; fruit that is preferved high fhould not be baked at all ; but the cruft fhould firft be baked upon a tin the fize the tart is to be; cut it with a marking-iron, or not, and when cold, take it off, and lay it on the fruit. Apples and pears intended to be put into tarts muft be pared, cut into quarters, and cored. Cut the quarters acrofs again, fet them on in a fauce-pan with as much water as will barely cover them, and let them fimmer on a flow fire juft till the fruit is tender. P.ut a good piece of le- mon-peel into the water with the fruit, and then have your pat- ties ready. Lay fine fugar at bottom, then your fruit, and a little fugar at top. Pour over each tart a tea-fpoonful of lemon- juice, and three tea-fpoonfuls of the liquor they were boiled in ; then put on your lid, and bake them in a flack oven. Apricot tarts may be made in the fame manner, obferving that you muft not put in any lemon-juice. A Rafpberry fart with Cream. Roll out fome thin puff pafte, and lay it in a patty-pan ; lay in fome rafpberries, and drew over them fome very fine fugar; put on the lid and bake it ; cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beat, and a little fugar. Let it ftand to be cold before it is fent to bake. Majon, 39i. fo make Rhubarb farts. Put the {talks of the rhubarb that grows in the garden, and cut them in pieces of the fize of a goofeberry, and make it as a goofeberry-tart. A Spinach fart. Scald the fpinach in boiling water, and drain it very Well to chop, then flew it in butter and cream, with a little fait, fugar, a few pieces of dried comfit citron, and a few drops of orange flower water. Clermont, 422. f art de Moi. Make fome good puff-pafte, and lay round your difh, put fome bifeuits at the bottom, then fome marrow, and a little but- ter ; then cover it with different kinds of fweetmeats, as many as