’The Family Fhyfician. 391 tongue, a pale, ghaflly countenance, and coldnefs of the extre- mities, are fatal fymptoms. It is highly neceilary that the patient be kept eafy and quiet. Violent atfe&ions of the mind, or great efforts of the body, may prove fatal. He fhould never even attempt to fpeak but in a low voice. Such a degree of warmth as to promote a conftant, gentle fweat, is proper. When the patient is in bed, his head ought to be raifed a little higher than ufual. * It is peculiarly neceffary that the neck be kept warm ; for which purpofe feveral folds of foft flannel may be wrapped round it. That alone will often remove a flight complaint of the throat, efpecially if applied in due time. We cannot here omit obferving the propriety of a cuftom which prevails .among the peafants of this country:—When they feel any uneafinefs of the thrpat, they wrap a Hocking about it all night. So effectual is this remedy, that in many places it paffes for a charm, and the flocking is applied with particular ceremonies. The cullom, however, is undoubtedly a good one, and fhould never be neg- ledled. When the throat has been thus wrapped up all night, it mud not be expofed to the cold air through the day, but an hand- kerchief, or a piece of flannel, kept about it till the inflammation be removed. The jelly of black currants is a medicine very much in efleem for complaints of the throat; and indeed it is of fome ufe. It fhould be almofl conllantly kept in the mouth, and fwallowed down leifurely. It may likewife be mixed in the patient’s drink, or taken any other way. When it cannot be obtained, the jelly of red currants, or of mulberries, may be ufed in its Head. Gargles fer the throat are very beneficial. They may be made of fage tea, with a little vinegar and honey, or by adding to half an Englifh pint of the pe&oral deco&ion, two or three fpoonfuls of honey, and the fame quantity of currant jelly. This may be ufed three or four times a day; and if the patient be troubled with tough vifeid phlegm, the gargle may be ren- dered more (harp and cleanling, by adding to it a tea-fpoonful of the fpirit of Jal ammoniac. Some recommend gargles made of a deco&ion of the leaves or bark of the black-berry bufli ; but where the jelly can be had, this is unneceflary. An inflammation of the throat being a moil acute and dan- gerous diftemper, which iometimes takes off the patient very fuddcnly, it will be proper, as foon as the fymptoms appear, to C c 4 bleed