*I'he Family Fhyfuian. 394 Sometimes ilTues have been found beneficial in this difeafa. They are peculiarly neceflary for children who abound with grofs humours. An inlufion of the Peruvian bark, in wine or ale, would be pf fervice, were it poflible to bring children to take it. I might here mention many other medicines which have been recommended for the rickets ; but as there is far more dan- ger in fruiting to thefe, than in negledting them altogether, I chufe rather to pafs them over, and to recommend a proper re- gimen as the thing chiefly to be depended upon. Buchan. 1The Scurvy. This difeafe may be known by unufual wearinefs, heavinefs, and difficulty of breathing, efpecially after motion; rottennefs of the gums, which are apt to bleed on the flighted touch ; a {linking breath ; frequent bleeding at the nofe ; crackling of the joints ; difficulty of walking ; fometimes a fwelling, and fome- times a falling away of the legs, on which there are livid, yel- low, or violet-coloured fpots; the face is generally of a pale or leaden colour. As the difeafe advances, other fymptoms come on ; as rottennefs of the teeth, haemorrhages, or difeharges of tdood from different parts of the body, foul obflinate ulcers, pains in various parts, efpecially about the bread:, dry fcaly eruptions all over the body, &c. At lad, a wading or he&ic. fever comes on, and the miferable patient is often carried off by a dyfentry, a diarrhaea, a dropfy, the palfey, fainting fits, or a mortification of fome of the bowels. I know no way of curing this difeafe, but by purfuing a plan direftly oppofite to that which brings it on. It proceeds from a vitiated date of the humours, occalioned by errors in diet, air, cxercife ; 2nd thefe cannot be removed but by a proper attention to thefe important articles. If the patient has been obliged to breathe a cold, damp, or confined air, he fhould be removed, as foon as poflible, to a dry, open, and moderately warm one. If there is reafon to believe that the difeafe proceeds from a fedentary life, or deprefling paf- fions, as grief, fear, &c. the patient mud take daily as much ex- ercife in the open air as he can bear, and his mind fhould by diverted by cheerful company, and other amufements. Nothing has a greater tendency either to prevent or remove this difeafe, than condant cheerfulnefs and good humour. But this, alas! is feldom the lot of perfons affli&ed with the feurvy ; they arc generally furly, peevifh, and morofe. When the feurvy has been brought on by a long ufe of faded provilions.