The Art of Brewing. 3 69 apples three or four days. Then pull out your tap, and let the juice run into fome other velfel fet under the tub to receive it ; and if it runs thick, as at the firft it will, pour it upon the apples again till you fee it runs clear ; and, as you have a quantity, put it into your velfel ; but do not force the cyder, but let it drop as long as it will of its own accord. Having done this, after you perceive that the Tides begin to work, take a quantity of ifin- glafs, (an ounce will ferve for forty gallons,) infufe this in fome of the . cyder till it is diifolved; put an ounce of ifinglafs to a quart of cyder, and when it is fo diifolved, pour it into the velfel, and flop it clofe for two days, or fomething more; then draw off the cyder into another velfel. This do repeatedly, till you perceive your cyder to be free from all manner of fediment, that may make it ferment and fret itfelf. After Chrillmas you may- boil it. You may, by pbuting water on the apples, and pref- fing them, make a pretty fmall cyder : if it lliould be thick and .1 muddy, by ufing ifinglafs, you may make it as clear as the reft. You mult dilfolve the ifinglafs over the fire till it be a jelly. For fining Cyder. Take two quarts of Ikim-milk, four ounces of ifinglafs ; cut ! the ifinglafs in pieces, and work it luke-Warm in the milk over the fire ; and when it is diifolved, put it cold into the hogfhead , of cyder, and take a long flick and ftir it well from top to bot- . tom for half a quarter of an hour. After it has fined. Take ten pounds of raifins of the fun, two ounces of turme- ric, and half an ounce of ginger beaten; then take a quantity of raifins, and grind them as you do muflard-feed in a bowl, with a little cyder, and fo the reft of the raifins; then fprinkle the turmeric and ginger among it; then put all into a fine can- vas bag, and hang it in the middle of the hogfhead clofe, and let lie. After the cyder has flood thus a fortnight, or a month; yot* may bottle it at your pleafure. 6 b THR 1