437 The Family Fhyfician. To take Iren Mould out of Linen. Hold the iron mould over the fume of boiling water for fome time, then pour on the fpot a little juice of forrel and a little (alt, and when the cloth has thoroughly imbibed the juice, wa(h it in lye. To take out Stains of Oil. ' it into a bottle half full oF lye Take Windfor-foap diaved thin, put ,, . . throw in the fize of a nut of ial ammoniac, a little ca 1 » two yolks of new-laid eggs, and ox gall at difcretion, an a y, an ounce of powdered tartar : then cork the bottle, and e^P° c heat of the noon-day fun four days, at the expiration oi w ic ime 1 becomes fit for ufe. Pour this liquor on the (tains, and ru 1 we on both tides of the cloth; then wafli the dains with clear water, or ra- ther with the following foap, and when the cloth is dry they will no longer appear. . To take out the Stains on Cloth of whatever Colour. _ Take half a pound of honey, the fize of a nut of fal ammoniac, and the yolk of an egg; mix them together, and put a little of this mix- ture on the (lain, letting it remain till dry. d hen wafh the cloth with fair water, and the ftains will difappear. Water impregnated with mi- neral alkaline fait, or foda, ox-gall, and black foap, is alio very goo4 to take out fpots of greafe. . A Soap that takes out all manner of Spots and Stains. Take the yolks of fix eggs, half a table-fpoonful of bruifed fait, and a pound of Venetian foap ; mix the whole together with the juice of beet-roots, and form it into round balls, that are to be dried in the fhade. The method of uftng this foap is to wet with fair water the ftained part of the cloth, and rub both fides of it well with this foap; then wadi thp cloth in water, and the (lain will not long appear. To curs Warts. Anoint the warts with the milky juice of the herb mercury feverai times, and they will gradually wafte away. Another jafe and experienced method. Rub the warts with a pared pippin, and a few days afterwards they will be found to difappear. To defray Fleas. Sprinkle the room wifli a decoction of arfmart, bitter apple, briar leaves, or cabbage leaves; or fmoke it with burnt thyme or penny-royal. Another way. Put tanfey-leaves about different parts of the bed, viz. under the matrafs, or between the blankets. Another way. Rub the bed-pofts well with a (trong deco&ion of elder leaves. A Liniment to defray Lice. Take an ounce of vinegar, the fame quantity of (tavcfacre, half an ounce of honey, and half an ounce of fulphur. Mix into the confid- ence of a foft liniment, with two ounces of falad oil. A Liniment to defroy Nits. Take oil of bays, oil of fweet almonds, and old hogs-lard, of each two ounces; powdered davefacre, and tanfey-juice, of each half an ounce; aloes and myrrh, of each a quarter of an ounce ; the fmaller centaury and fait of fulphur, of each a drachm ; mix the whole into a }inirqent. Before you ufe it, wa(h the hair with vinegar. Receipt