I 5 232 • Of Fiji:. of good boiled gravy, fome Madeira, an onion, a little whole pepper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel ; (lew it in this gently till enough ; add a little flour mixed in fome cream, a lit- tle catchup ; boil it up ; fcjueeze in fome lemon-juice. Mafon, .2-31-; Front. d-la-Chartreufe. ' ■ Scale and clean the filh, and cut each in three pieces; (lew them in broth, with' pepper, fait, and two or three diced lemons peeled. Make a fauce with a little butter rolled in bread-crumbs, chopped parfley, fhallcts, mulhrooms, a little ba(il, pepper, and fait, a little fifh broth, and a glafs of white wine. Put the fifh upon the dilh you intend for table; fqueeze the juice of a Seville orange upon them, then the fauce over, and ftrew them over with a few fine bread-crumbs. Dairy tuple, 289. Fo fry Front or Perch. Scale, gut, and wafh them, dry them well, then lay them fe- parately on a board before the fire ; two minutes before you fry them, duff them well with flour, and fry them a fine brown in roaft drippings or rendered fuet. Serve them up with melted but- ter and crifped parfley. Raffa/cl, 36. To marinade Frout. Fry them in a fufficient quantity of oil to cover them, put them in when the oil is boiling hot. When they are crifp, lay them to drain till they are cold ; then take fome wdiite wane and vinegar, of each an equal quantity, with fome fait, whole pep- per, nutmeg, cloves, mace, fliced ginger, iavoury, fweet marjo- ram, thyme, rofemary, a bay-leaf, and two onions; let thefe boil together for a quarter of an hour; put the filh into a (lew- pan, pour the marinade to them hot; put in as much oil as white wine and vinegar, which mud be according to the quantity of fifh that are done, as the liquor muft cover them, and they will then keep a month. Serve them with oil and vinegar. Pike with force-meat. Prepare your pike thus :—Gut it without cutting it open, but take care it is well cleaned; cut a notch down the back, from head to tail, turn it round, and fallen the tail in the mouth, and lay it in a marinade. For your force-meat, take the udder of a leg of veal, or the kidney'part of a loin of lamb, fome fat bacon 'cut in dice, the fpawn or melt of the filh, fome green onions, a 'mil fit room or two, or truffles, parfley, and fait, a little nutmeg and pepper; add a model of butter to fry it, chop it all well, and -the crumb of a French roll ,foajcejl>in cream or milk ; pound all