Of Piei. *72- meat, fkim the liquor, fweeten it to your tafte, and put in half n pint of white wine. Then pour all into the difh, put on your lid, and bake it an hour and an half. Farley, 205, from Glajfe, 140. A Calf’s-head Pie. Take a calf’s head and parboil it; when it is cold, cut it in pieces, and feafon it well with pepper and fait. Put it in a raifed cruft, with half a pint of ftrong gravy; let it bake an hour and an half. When it comes out of the oven, cut off the lid, and chop the yolks of three hard eggs fmall; ftrew them over the top of the pie, and lay three or four ftices of lemon, and pour on fomc melted butter. Send it to table without a lid. A Cherry Pie. Make a good cruft, lay a little of it round the Tides of your difh, and throw fugar at the bottom ; then lay in your fruit, and fome fugar at the top. Some red currants added to the cherries are a great improvement. Then put on your lid, and bake it in a flack oven. A plum pie, or a goofeberry pie, may be made in the fame manner. A Javoury Chicken Pie. Procure fome fmall chickens, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait; put a lump of butter into each of them, lay them in the difh with the breafts up, and put a thin flice of bacon over them ; it will give them a pleafant flavour ; then put in a pint of ftrong gravy, and make a good puff-pafte; lid it, and bake it in a moderate oven. French cooks ufually add morels and yolks of eggs chopped fmall. Raffald, 151. Farley, 2x0. A rich Chicken Pie. Cover the bottom of the difh with a puff-pafte, and upon that, round the fide, lay a thin layer of force-meat; cut two fmall chickens into pieces, feafon them high with pepper and fait; put fome of the pieces into the difh, then a fweetbread or two, cut into pieces, and well feafoned, a few truffles and morels', fome artichoke bottoms cut each into four pieces, then the re- mainder of the chickens, fome force-meat balls, yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped a little, and ftrewed over the top, a little water; cover the pie. When it comes from the oven, pour in a rich gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. To make the pie ftill richer, frefh mufhrooms, afparagus tops, and cocks’- combs may be added. The chickens are fometimes larded with bacon, and fluffed with