Fricajfees. • 219 To fricoffee Cod Sounds. Having cleaned them very well, cut them into little pretty- pieces, boil them tender in milk and water, then throw them into a cullender to drain ; pour them into a clean faucepan, fea- fon them with a little beaten mace and grated nutmeg, and a very little fait; pour to them juft cream enough for fauce, and a good piece of butter rolled in flour ; keep ftiaking your fauce- pan round all the time, till it is thick enough ; then di(h it up, and garnifh with lemon. Glajfe, 182. To fricajfee Oyjlers. Put a little butter in a ftew-pan, with a flice of ham, a faggot j of parfley and fweet herbs, and one onion ftuck with two cloves; foak it a little on a flow fire, then add a little flour, fome good broth, and a piece of lemon-peel; then put fcalded oyfters to it, 1 and fimmer them a little. When ready to ferve, thicken it with a liafon made of the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, ^nd a bit of good butter; take out the ham, faggot, onion,'and'lemon- peel, and add the fqueeze of a lemon. Dalrymple, 408. To fricajfee Eggs. Boil your eggs pretty hard, and flice them ; then take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, a bit of butter, nutmeg, fait, pepper, chopped parfley, and a few pickled mulhrooms; boil this up, pour it over the eggs ; a hard yolk laid in the middle of . the difh ; toafted fippets. Mafon, 288. To fricajfee Mujhrooms. Peel your mufhrooms, and fcrape the infide of them, throw them into fait and water; if buttons, rub them with flannel, take them out and boil them with frefli fait and water. When they are tender, put in a little fhred parfley, an onion ftuck with cloves; tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a lit- tle flour. You may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces ; but take care to take out the nut- meg and onion before you fend it to table. You may leave out the parfley, and ftew in a glafs of wine, if you like it. Raffald, I43. Farley, 86. To fricajfee Artichoke Bottoms. Take artichoke-bottoms, either dried or pickled ; if dried, you muft lay them in warm water for three or four hours, fhifting the water two or three times ; then have ready a little cream, and a piece of frefh butter ftirred together one way till it is melted ; then put in the artichokes, and when they are hot, difh them up. Glajfe, 196. Tc j.