2-66 Of Pudding?, a bit of lemon-peel, till it is foft and thick. Grate the crumb' of a halfpenny roll, put to it a glafs of red wine, four ounces of chopped marrow, the yolks ef four eggs well beaten, and fugar to your taffe. When the fago is cold, put thefe ingredients to £ it. Mix it all well together. Bake it with a puff parte. When • * it comes from the oven, ftick over it citron cut into pieces, and almonds blanched and cut into flips. Rajfald, 175, from Ma~ fan, 380. A Spoonful Pudding. Take a fpoonful of flour, a fpoonful of cream or milk, art egg, a little nutmeg, ginger, and fait; mix all together, and boil it in a little wooden difh half an hour. You may add a few currants A Spinach Pudding. Take a quarter of a peck of fpinach, picked and wafheef clean, put it into a fauce-pan with a little fait; cover it Clofe, and when it has boiled juft tender, throw it into a fieve to drain ; then chop it with a knife, beat up fix eggs, mix well with it half a pint of cream, and a ftale roll grated fine, a little nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; ftir all well together, put it into the fauce-pan the fpinach was ftevved in, keeping it itirring till it begins to be thick, then wet the pudding-cloth and flour it well ; tie it up, and boil it an hour; turn it into a difh, and pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange fqueezed in it, and fugar. You may bake it, but then you fhould put in a quarter of a pound of fugar. Glajfcy 225. Mo- jo n, 372. Farley, 186. A Suet Pudding. Take a pound of Aired fuet, a quart of milk, four eggs, two tea-fpoonfuls of grated ginger, a little fait, and flour enpugh to make it a thick batter ; boil it two hours. It may be made in- to dumplings, when half an hour will boil them. . A Pan fey Pudding. A Put as much boiling cream to four Naples’ bifeuits grated as will wet them, beat the yolks of four eggs. Have ready a few Chopped tanfey-leaves, w‘ith as much fpinach as will make it a pretty green. Be careful not to put too much tanfey in, becaufe it will make it bitter. Mix all together when the cream is cold, with a little fugar, and fet it over a flow fire till it grows ^jfick; then take it off', and, when cold, put it in a cloth, well bilrered and floured ; tie it up, clofe, and let it boil three quarters of an hour: