3^4 The Art of Brewing, new liquor is working, it will never clear itfelf in the manner you would wifh. The fame misfortune will arife if in very hot weather, you cannot put the cellar into a temperate flate. The conlequence of which will be, that fuch liquor will be muddy and lour, perhaps beyond all recovery. Such misfortunes indeed otten happen, even in the proper feafon for brewing, owing iolely to the badnefs of a cellar; for when they are dug in ^prmgy grounds, or are fubjeft to damps in the winter, the li- quor will chill, and become vapid or flat. Where cellars are of this kind, it wilFbe advifable to brew in March, rather than October ; for you may be able to keep fuch cellars temperate in fummer, but you cannot make them warm in winter. The beer therefore which is brewed in March, will have fufficient time to fettle and adjull itfelf before the cold can do it any material injury. The Country, or private way of bufinefs. Several countries have their feveral methods of brewing, as it is pradliced in Wales, Dorchefter, Nottingham, Oundle, and many other places ; but avoiding particulars, I fhall here recom- mend that which I think is the mod ferviceable both in the country and London private families. And, firft, I fhall ob- ferve, that the great brewer has fome advantages in brewing, more than the Imall one; and yet the latter has fome conve- niences which the former has not; for, *tis certain, that the great brewer can make more drink, and draw a greater length in proportion to his malt, than a perfon can from a lefler quan- tity ; becaufe, the greater the body, the more is its united power in receiving and difcharging; and he can brew with lefs trouble and expence, by means of his more convenient utenfils. But then the private brewer is not without his advantages ; for he can have his malt ground at pleafure, his tuns and moveable coolers fvveeter and better cleaned than the great fixed tuns and backs ; he can fkim off his top yeafi, and leave his bottom lees behind, which is what the great brewer cannot fo well do. He can, at difcretion, make additions of cold wort to his two for- ward ales and beers, which the great brewer cannot fo eafily do; he can brew how and when he pleafes, w hich the great ones are in fome meafure hindered from. But, fuppofe a private family fhould brew' five bulhels of malt, whofe copper holds, brim full, thirty-fix gallons, or a barrel; on this water we put half a peck of bran or malt, when it is fomething hot, which will much for- ward it, by keeping in the fleam, or fpirit of the water; when it begins to boil, if the water is foul, fkim of the bran or malt.