245 Of Sauces. (train it; put that and the oyfters into a little boiled gravy ; juft fcald them ; add l'ome cream, a piecs of butter mixed with dour, and feme catchup ; lhake all up ; let it boil, but not much, as it will make the oyfters grow hard and Ihrink ; yet care fhould be taken that they are enough, as nothing is more difagreeable than for the oyfters to tafte raw. Or melted butter only, with the oyfters and their liquor. Majon, 327. Another way. Take a pint of large oyfters, fcald them, and then ftrain them through a lieve, walli the oyfters very clean in cold water, and take the beards off; put them in a ftew-pan, pour the liquor over them, but be careful to pour the liquor gently out of the veffel you have drained it into, and you will leave all the fedi- ment at the bottom, which you muft avoid putting into your ftew-pan; then add a large fpoonful of anchovy liquor, two blades of mace, half a lemon ; enough butter rolled in flour to thicken it ; then put in half a pound of butter, boil it up till the butter is melted, then take out the mace and lemon, fqueeze the lemon-juice into the fauce, give it a boil up, ftir it all the time, and then put it into your boats or bafons. N. B. You may put in a fpoonful of catchup, or the fame quantity of mountain wine. Glajj'e, 123. Afpic Sauce. Infufe chervil, tarragon, burnet, garden-crefs, and a little mint, in a little cullis for above half an hour ; then fift it, and add to it a fpoonful of garlick-vinegar, pepper, and fait > ferve up in a fauce-boat. Clermont, 38. Lohjter Sauce. Bruife the body of a lobfter into thick melted butter, and cut the flefli into it in fmall pieces; (lew all together, and give it a boil, feafon with a little pepper, fait, and a very fmall quantity of mace. Another way. Procure a lobfter that has a good deal of fpawn, pull the meat to pieces with a fork ; do not chop it; bruife the body and the fpawn with the back of a fpoon ; break the fhell, boil it in a little water to give it a colour \ ftrain it off, melt fome butter in it very fmooth, with a little horfe-radifh and a very little chyan ; take out the horfe-radifh, mix the body of the lobfter well with the butter, then add the meat, and give it a boil, with a fpoon- ful of catchup or gravy, if agreeable. Some people choofe only plain butter. Majon, 327. R 3 [Cullijfes