The Family Thyfitian. 411 refpeft. A healthy child fliould always be in motion, unlefs when afleep ; if it be buffered to lie, or lit, inftead of being tolled and dandled about, it will not thrive. At the beginning of this difeafe the child’s flefh grows foft and flabby i its ffrength is diminilhed ; it lofes its wonted cheerful- rels, looks more grave and compofed than is natural for its age, and does not chufe to be moved. The head and belly become too iarge in proportion to the other parts; the face appears full, and tne complexion florid. Afterwards the bones begin to be af- fected, efpecially in the more foft and fpongy parts. Hence the wriffs and ancles become thicker than ufual ; the fpine or back- bone puts on an unnatural fhape ; the breaff is likewife often de- formed. As this difeafe is always attended with evident figns of weak- nefs and relaxation, our chief aim in the cure mult be to brace and ftrengthen the folids, and to promote digeftion and the due preparation of the fluids. Thefe important ends will be bell an- fwered by wholefome nourifhing diet, fuited to the age and ffrength of the patient, open dry air, and fufficient exercife. The limbs fliould be rubbed frequently with a warm hand, and the child kept as cheerful as poffible. The diet ought to be dry and nourifhing, as good bread, roafled flefh, &c. Bifcuits is generally reckoned the belt bread, and pi- geons, pullets, veal, rabbits, or mutton roafled or minced, are the molt proper flefh. If the child be too young for flefh meats, he may have rice, millet, or pearl-barley boiled with raifins, to which may be added a little wine and fpice. His drink may be good claret, mixed with an equal quantity of water. Thole who cannot afford claret, may give the child now and then a wine-glafs of mild ale, or good porter. Medicines are here of little avail. The difeafe may often be cured by the nurfe, but felaom by the phyfician. In children of a grofs habit, gentle vomits and repeated purges of rhubarb may fometimes be of ufe, but they will feldom carry off the difeafe ; ufe the cold bath, efpecially in the warm feafon. It muff how, ever be done with prudence, as fome ricketty children cannot bear ft. The belt time for ufing the cold bath is in the morn, ing, and the child fliould be well rubbed with a dry cloth imme- diately after he comes out of it. If the child fliould be weak- ened by the cold bath, it muff be difcontinued. Sometimes iffues have been found beneficial in this difeafe. They are peculiarly neceffary for children who abound with grofs humours.