Made Difhes of Veal. 90 i end of a cold bread of veal ; firft fry it, drain it from the fat, then pour this fauce to it. Glajfe, 119. To fry cold Veal. Cut your veal into pieces of the thicknefs of an half-crown, and as long as you pleafe ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, and then in crumbs of bread, with a few fweet herbs and fhred lemon- peel in it ; grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry them in frelh butter. The butter mud be hot, jud enough to fry them in. In the mean time, make a little gravy of the bone of the veal, and when the meat is fried, take it out with a fork, and lay if in a dilh before the fire. Then fhake a little flour into the pan, and dir it round. Then put in a little gravy, fqueeze in a little lemon, and pour it over the veal. Garnifh with lemon. To mince Veal. Cut your veal in dices, then cut it in little fquare bits, but do not chop it ; put it into a fauce-pan, with two or three dpoon- fuls of gravy, a flice of lemon, a little pepper and fait, a good lump of butter rolled in flour, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, and a large fpoonful of cream ; keep fhaking it over the fire till it boils, but do not let it boil above a minute ; if you do, it will make your meat eat hard : put fippits round your difh, and ferve it up. Raff aid, 73. Farley, 66. Calf’s Chitterlings. Clean fome of the larged of the calf’s guts, cut them into lengths proper for puddings, tie one of the ends clofe, take fome bacon, and cut it like dice, and a calf’s udder, and fat that comes off the chitterlings ; chaldrons blanched and cut alfo ; put them into a dew-pan, with a bay-leaf, fait, pepper, Shallot cut fmall, fome pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, with half a pint or more of milk, and let it jud dimmer ; then take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and dome crumbs of bread • fill the chitterlings with this mixture, which mud be kept j warm,5 and make the links like hogs’-puddings. Before they are fent to table, they mud be boiled over a moderate Are ; let them cool in their own liquor. They ferve in fummer, when hogs - puddings are not to be had. Adafon, 159- Veal