S96 The Family Bhyfician. were (heir cffe£ls would be as great upon the human fpecies, T,w. t ey ulcd in proper quantity for a fuflicient length of time Buchan. Chambers. Spitting of Blood, &c. Spontaneous, or involuntary difeharges o 1 blood, often happen from various parts of the body. Thefe, however, are fo far from being always dangerous, that they prove often falutary. When fuch difeharges are critical, which is frequently the cafe in fevers, they ought not to be flopped. Nor indeed is it pro- per at any time to flop them, unlefs they be fo great as to en- danger the patient’s life, Mofl people, afraid of the fmalleft difeharge of blood from any part of the body, fly immediately to the nfe of flyptic and aflringent medicines, by which means an inflammation of the brain, or fome other fatal difeafe is oc- cafioned, which, hail the difeharge been allowed to go on, might have been prevented. In the early part of life, bleeding at the nofe is very common. Thofe who are further advanced in years, are more liable to hexynoptoe, or difeharge of blood from the lungs. After the middle period of life, hoemorrhoidal fluxes are mofl common ; and in the decline of life, difeharges of blood from the urinary paflages. Involuntary fluxes of blood may proceed from very different, and often from quite oppofite caufes. Sometimes they are ow- ing to a particular conltruftion of the body, as a fanguine tem- perament, a laxity of the veflels, a plethoric habit, &c. At other times they proceed from a determination of the blood to- wards one particular part, as the head, the hoemorrhoidal veins, &c. They may likewife proceed from an inflammatory dilpofi- tion of the blood, in which cafe there is generally fome degree of fever ; this likewdfe happens when the flux is occafloned by an obflrudled perfpiration, or a llri£lure upon the fkin, the bowels, or any particular part of the fyflem. The cure of an hoemorrhage mufl be adapted to its caufe. When it proceeds from too much blood, or a tendency to in- flammation, bleeding, with gentle purges, and other evacuations, will be neceflary. It will likewife be proper for the patient in this cafe to live chiefly upon a vegetable diet, to avoid all flrong liquors, and food that is of an acrid, hot, and ftimulating qua- lity. The body fhould be kept cool, and the mind eafy. When an hoemorrhage is owing to a putrid, or dilfolved (late of the blood, the patient ought to live chiefly upon acid fruits, with milk, and vegetables of a nourilhing nature, as (ago, falop.