0/ Puddings* 257 Strain it through a coarfe hair fieve, that it may neither have lumps nor the treadles of the eggs } and ror all other puddings* (train the eggs when you beat them. With refpedl to baking, «U bread and cuftard puddings require time, and a moderate oven, that will raifeand not burn them. Batter and rice pud- dings a quick oven. Be particularly careful to butter the pan or difh before you put in your pudding. A baked Almond Pudding. Having boiled the (kins of two lemons very tender, beat them very fine; beat half a pound of almonds in rofe-water, and a pound of fugar very fine ; then melt half a pound of butter, and let it (land till it is quite cold ; beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four; mix them and beat them all together, with a little orange-flower water, and bake it in the oven. Raffald, 168. Farley, 184. A boiled Almond Pudding> Strain two eggs well bedten into a quart of cream, a penny- loaf grated, one nutmeg, fix fpoonfuls of flour, half a pound of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a dozen bitter almonds, fweeten with fine Tugar; add a little brandy; boil it half an hour; pour round it melted butter and wine j (tick it with al- monds blanched and flit. Mafon, 370. Almond Hog's Puddings. Take a pound of beef-marrow chopped fine, half a pound of fweet almonds blanched and beat fine, with a little orange-flower or rofe-water; half a pound of white bread grated fine, half a pound of currants, clean wafhed and picked, a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, together, of each an equal quantity, and half a pint of fack or mountain. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Fill your guts half full, tie them up, and boil them a quarter of an hour, and prick them as they boil to keep the guts from breaking. For a change, you may leave out the currants, but you mult then add a quarter of a pound more fugar. A baked Apple Pudding. Boil half a pound of apples, and pound them well; take half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, mix it with the apples be- fore they are cold ; add fix eggs with the whites, well beaten and (trained, half a pound of fugar pounded and lifted, the rinds of two lemons well boiled and beaten 5 fift the peel into clean S water