the difh. Then take the fifli out, and put them on the difh yon ,intend for table ; fet the gravy on the fire, and thicken it with flour and a large lump of butter; boil it a little, and (train it over your fifli. Garnifh them with pickled muflirooms and feraped horfe-radifh ; put a bunch of pickled barberries, or a fprig of myrtle in their mouths, and fend them to table. It is a top-dilh for a grand entertainment. Raffald, 29. To fry Tench. Gut, vvafh, and dry them well in a cloth ; flit them down the back, fprinkle a little fait over them, and dredge them with flour; fry them of a fine brown in boiling lard. Sauce—an- chovy, with muflirooms, truffles, and capers, all chopped fmall, and (tewed in gravy, with the juice of a lemon, and a little fifh- cullis. To fry Perch. Scale and gut your perch and wa(h them clean ; fcore them at fome diflance on the Aides, but not very deep ; dry them well, and flour them all over; fry them in oiled butter. When they are of a fine brown, lay fome crifped parfley round the fifli. For fauce, take plain butter. Some make the following fauce : —Two ounces of browned butter ; put to it fome flour, a few chives chopped fmall, fome parfley, a few frefh muflirooms cut fmall, and a little boiling water. Lay the perch in this liquor after they are fried, and let them flew gently for four or five minutes ; then lay them in a warm difh ; add two large fpoon- fuls of capers cut fmall; thicken it up with butter and flour, and pour it over them. Mafon, 239. To drefs Perch in Water Souchy. Having fealed, gutted, and waffled them, put fome fait in your water; when it boils, put in your fifh, with an onion cut in fliccs, and feparated into round rings, and an handful of parf- ley ; put as much milk as will turn the water white. The perch being enough, put them in a foup-difli, and pour a lit'le of the water over them, with the parfley and the onions ; ferve it up with butter and parfley in a boat ; onions may be omitted, if you think proper. Trout may be boiled the fame way. Smelts d-la-St.-Menehoult. The fmelts being well cleaned, put them in a flew-pan with a piece of butter, chopped parfley, lhallots, green onions, fweet herbs, pepper and fait; give them a few turns in this over the fire; then take them out, and add two or three yolks of cf'gs to the butter ; mix it well together, dip the fmelts in it,