4°6 The Family Phyjician. at the nofe, the patient fhould frequently fmell to a bottle of vo- latile falts ; he may likewife take fnufF, or any thing that will irritate the nofe, fo as to promote a difeharge from it j as the herb maflich, ground ivy, &c. A hemicrania, efpecially a periodical one, is generally owing to a foulnefs of the ftomach, for which gentle vomits mud be adrainiftered, as alfo purges of rhubarb. When the patient cannot bear the lofs of blood, his feet ought . frequently to be bathed in lukewarm water, and well rubbed with a coarfe cloth. Cataplafms with muftard or horfe-radifh ought likewife to be applied to them. This courfe is peculiarly neceffary when the pain proceeds from a gouty humour affecting the head. When the head-ach is occafioned by great heat, hard labour, or violent exercife of any kind, it may be allayed by cooling me- dicines, as the faline draughts with nitre, and the like. A little of Ward’s effence, dropped into the palm of the hand, and applied to the forehead, will fometimes remove a violent head-ach ; and fp will aether, when applied in the fame manner. The Ear-Ach. This diforder is fometimes fo violent, as to occafion great yeflleffhefs, anxiety, and even delirium. It often proceeds from a fudden fuppreffion of perfpiration, or from the head being expofed to cold when covered wfth fiveat. It may alfo be occalioned by worms, or other infedls getting into the ear, or being bred there ; or from any hard body fticking in the ear. When the ear-ach proceeds from infedts, or any hard body flicking in the ear, every method muff be taken to remove them as foon as pofiible. The membranes may be relaxed by drop- ping into the ear oil of fweet almonds, or olive oil. Afterwards the patient fhould be made to fneeze, by taking fnufF, or fome Itrong flernutatory. If this fhould not force out the body, it muff be extradled by art. Infefls fometimes come out upon pouring in oil, which is a thing they cannot bear. When the pain of the ear proceeds from inflammation, it may be fomented. An exceeding good method of fomenting the ear is to apply it clofe to the mouth of a jug filled with warm wa- ter, or a ftrong decodtion of camomile-flowers. The patient’s feet fhould be frequently bathed in lukewarm water, and he ought to take fmall dofes of nitre and rhubarb, viz. a fcruple of the former, and ten grains of the latter, three times a-day. His drink may be whey, or dccodtion of barley