380 The Family Fhyjician. that had been clone for her by the faculty. She took the broom- feed, but could not take the whole of the oil; however, in a very few months, her hufband wrote a letter of thanks for her fpeedy and furprifmg recovery. Soon after, the report of this extraordinary cure induced ano- ther lady, W'ho was afflidted with a dropfy, to make trial of the remedy. She was not fo much fwoln as the former lady, but ihe was exceedingly emaciated, and was fo weak, that Ihe was carried like an infant into her carriage, when fhe went to take the air ; and file had failed of relief from the advice of two of the moll eminent phyficians in London, Who had pronounced it an afeites, with eneyfted water. Happily they were too liberal minded to fet their faces againft the remedy, as feme others have fince done, becaufe it was not of their acquaintance. This lady followed the directions of the recipe very exadtly, and was re- itored to health in a few months. Thefe fucceffes induced the lady, at whofe defire it is pub- lifhed, to recommend the remedy with avidity whenever occafion offered; and it has pleafed God to crown her endeavours with fucli wonderful fuccefs, that fhe thinks fhe may venture to af- firm, that fhe has never known it fail to cure, when taken ac- cording to the recipe, and whue there was any degree of ftrength remaining; and that it is al&ioft as certain a fpecific for the dropfy, as the bark is for the intermitting fever. The Gout, As there are no medicines yet known that will cure the gout, we fhall confine our obfervations chiefly to regimen, both in and out of the fit. In the fit, if the patient be young and ftrong, his diet ought to be thin and cooling, and his drink of a diluting nature; but when the conftitution is weak, and the patient has been accuf- tomed to live high, this is not a proper time to retrench. In this cafe, he mud keep nearly to his ufual diet, and fliould take frequently a cup of ftrong negus, or a glafs of generous wine. Wine whey is a very proper drink in this cafe, as it promotes the perfpiration w'ithout greatly heating the patient. It will anfwer this purpofe better, if a tea-fpoonlul of Jal volatile oleojutn, or fpirits of hartfhorn, be put into a cup of it twice a day. It will likewife be proper to give at bed-time, a tea-fpoonful of the volatile.tindure of guajacum, in a large draught of warm wine whey. This will greatly promote perfpiration through the niSlu- ' 1 Man,