13S Mfide Dijhes of Poultry, &c. \vell together, and put them into the body of the turkey ; put on a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, fome (ballots, fome pepper and fait; when it is hot, put in the turkey, turn it often that it may be of a fine brown, and lay it to cool; then wrap fome ilices of bacon over it, and cover it all over with paper; put it upon a fpit, and lay it down to roaft. For fauce—cut fome large mufti rooms very fine, with twice the quantity of parfley, a few green onions cut fmall. Put on a fauce-pan with half a pint of white wine ; when it is hot, put in thefe ingredients ; add fome pepper and fait, the juice of a lemon, two cloves of garlick whole ; let them boil, and then put in a quarter of a pint of rich gravy, and a fmall tea-cupful of oil; let all boil up once or twice, then take out the garlic, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. Lay the turkey in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. Majon, 259. Turkey in a hurry. Trufs a turkey with the legs inward, and flatten it as much as you can ; put it in a ftew-pan, with melted lard, chopped parf- ley, (ballots, mufhrooms, and a little garlic ; give it a few turns on the fire, and add the juice of half a lemon to keep it white; then put it in another ftew-pan, with dices of veal, one (lice of ham, the melted lard, and every thing as ufed before, adding whole-pepper and fait; cover it over with dices of lard, and foak it about half an hour on a flow fire ; then add a glafs of white wine and a little broth, and finifh the brazing ; (kim and fift the fauce, add a little cullis to make it a liafon, reduce it to a good confidence, and ferve upon the turkey* Clermont, 231. Turkics and Chickens after the Dutch way. Boil them, feafon them with fait, pepper, and cloves; then to every quart of broth, put a quarter of a pound of rice or ver- micelli. It is eat with fugar and cinnamon. The two laft may be left out. Turkey fluffed after the Hamburg way. Take one pound of beef, three quarters of a pound of fuct, mince it very fmall, feafon it with fait, pepper, cloves, mace, and fweet marjoram; then mix two or three eggs with it; loofen the