153 Made Dijhes of Poultryt &c. 1 nutes, wipe the duck clean. Serve with what fauce you pleafe.—Small ducklings may be drelfed in the fame manner, obfcrving only that they mull not be cut in two. Clermont, 255. Pigeons en Compote. I - ' Take fix young pigeons, and fkewer them'as for boiling; make a force-meat thus:—grate the crumb of a penny loaf, half a pound of fat bacon, fhred fome fweet herbs and parlley fine, two (ballots, or a little onion, a little lemon-peel, a little grated nutmeg; feafon it with pepper and fait, and mix it up with the yolk of two eggs ; put it into the craws and bellies, lard them down the bread, and fry them brown with a little butter ; then put them in a dew-pan, with a pint of drong brown gravy, a gill of white wine ; dew them three- quarters of an hour, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, feafon with fait and chyan pepper, put the pigeoiis in the difli, and drain the gravy over them. Lay fome hot force-meat balls round them, and fend them up hot. Glajfe, 91. Another way. Trufs the pigeons with their legs in their bodies, but fird duff them with good force-meat (made in the fame manner as for pi- geons a-la-daube); let them be parboiled, then lard them with bits of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fpices, minced chives, and parfley ; let them flew as gently as poflible. While they are (tewing, make a ragoo of cocks’ combs, fowls’ livers, truffles, morels, and mufhrooms; melt a little bacon in a frying-pan, and put them in, (hake the pan round two or three times ; then put in fome rich gravy, let it fimmer a little, then put in fome cullis of veal and ham to thicken it. Take the pigeons, drain them, and put them into this ragoo. Let them jufl fimmer in it, then take them up, put them into a difh, and pour the ragoo over them. Mafon, 278. Pigeons d-la-duxelle. Cut off the feet and pinions of four or five pigeons, and fplit them down the bread; then take out the liver, and flat them with a cleaver. Make a hot marinade of fome fcraped bacon, feafoned with a mufhroom or two, green onions, pepper,’ fait, thyme, and parfley, and a little nutmeg. Fry all a few mi-