FricaJJees.. 2 1 S i your eels be boiling hot, and pour in your eggs, Sec. Tofs it over the fire for a moment, add the juice of a lemon, and ferve it up. Be very cautious that you do not let it curdle, by keep- ing it too long upon the fire after the eggs are in. Tench cut in pieces make a very good difh done in the fame manner. Verral, 70. 'To fricajfee Carp Roes. Put a little good butter in a flew-pan, with a dozen fmall mulhrooms, a (lice of ham, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a fag- got of fweet herbs ; foak it on a flow fire a little while, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think proper, with a little good broth ; flew them about a quarter of an hour, fea- foning with pepper and fait. When ready to ferve, thicken it with a liafon made; with the yolks of two or three eggs and cream, with a little chopped parfley. Dalrymple. 407. 'To fricajfee Flounders and Plaice. After cleaning the fifh, take off the black fkin, but not the white; cut the flefh from the bones into long dices, and dip them into yolk of egg; flrew over them fome bread rafpings, and fry them in clarified butter. When they are enough, lay them upon a plate, and keep them hot. For fauce—take the bones of the fifh, boil them in fome water ; then put in an an- chovy, fome thyme, parfley, a little pepper, fait, cloves, and mace. Let thefe fimmer till the anchovy is diffolved, then take the butter the fifh was fried in, put it into a pan over the fire; fhake fome flour into it, and keep ftirring it while the flour is fhaking in ; then ftrain the liquor into it, and let it boil till it is thick; fqueeze fome lemon-juice into it; put the fifh into a difh, and pour the fauce over them. To fricajfee Scale, or Thornback. Cut the meat from the bones, fins, See. and make it very clean. Then cut it into thin pieces, about an inch broad, and two inches long, and lay them in your ftew-pan. To one pound oftheflelh, put a quarter of a pint of water, a little beaten mace, and grated nutmeg, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, and a little fait. Cover it, and let it boil fifteen minutes. Take out the fweet herbs, put in a quarter of a pint of good cream, a piece of butter the fize of a walnut, rolled in flour, and a glafs of white wine. Keep fhaking the pan all the time one way, till it is thick and fmooth; then difh it up, and garnifh with lemon. Farley, 88.