Made Dijhes of Mutton, 105 elding the juice of a lemon; and tafte it to try if it is well fla- voured. Vert'd, 49. Mutton Rumps and Kidnies. Boil fix (bleeps’ rumps in veal gravy, then lard your kidnies with bacon, and fet them before the fire in a tin oven ; when the rumps are tender, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little chyan and grated nutmeg, (kirn the fat off the gravy, put it in a clean tofling-pan, with three 01 nces of boiled rice, a fpoon- fiul of good cream, a little mufhroom-powder or catchup, thicken it with flour and butter, and give it a gentle boil; fry, your rumps a little brown. When you difh them up, lay them round on your rice, fo that the (mail ends may meet in the middle, and lay a kidney between every rump. GarniIh with red cabbage or bar- berries, and ferve it up. It is a pretty fide or corner dilh. Raf- fald, 106. Farley, 108. Du Pont, 165. Mutton Rumps a-la-braife. Boil fix mutton rumps for fifteen minutes in water; then take them out and cut them in two, and put them into a (lew- pan, with half a pint of good gravy, a gill of white wine, an onion (buck with cloves, and a little fait and chyan pepper. Cover them clofe, and flew them till they are tender. Take them and the onion out, and thicken the gravy with a littl butter rolled in flour, a fpoonful of browning, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it up till it is fmooth, but not too thick. Then put in your rumps, give them a top or two, and difh them up hot. Garnifh with horfe-radifh and beet- root. For variety, you may leave the rumps whole, and lard fix kidnies on one fide, and do them the lame as the rumps, only not boil them, and put the rumps in the middle ot the difh, and kidnies round them, with the fauce over all. The kidnies make a pretty fide dilh of themfelves. Far- ley, 109. To hajh Mutton. Cut your mutton in little bits as thin as you can, ftrew a lit- tle flour over it, have ready fome gravy (enough for fauce) wherein fweet herbs, onion, pepper, and fait have been boiled ; (train it, put in your meat, with a piece of butter rolled in flour,