Of Boiling. 34 Another In the mean time fet on your fifh-kettle, with clean fpr'ing- water and fait, a little vinegar, and a piece of horfe-radifh,, When the water boils, lay the turbot on a fifh-plate, put it into the kettle, let it be well boiled, but take great care it is not too much done. When enough, take off the fifli-kettle, fet it be- fore the fire, then carefully lift up the fifh-plate, and fet it acrofs the kettle to drain. In the mean time melt a good deal of frefh butter, and bruife in either the fpawn of one or two lobfters, and the meat cut fmall, with a fpoonful of anchovy liquor ; then give it a boil, and pour it into bafons. This is the bed fauce ; but you may make what you pleafe. Lay the fi(h in the difh. Garnifh with fcraped horfe-radifh and lemon. GlajJ'e, 177. Another way. Make a brine with a handful or two of fait, and a gallon or more of water: let the turbot lie in it two hours before it is to be boiled ; then fet on a fifli-kettle, with water enough to cover it, and about half a pint of vinegar (or lefs if the turbot is fmall); put in a piece of horfe-radifh. When the water boils, put in the turbot, the white fide uppermoft, on a fifh-plate. Let it be done enough, but not too much, which will be eafily known by the look. A fmall one will take twenty minutes ; a large one, half an hour. Then take it up, and fet it on a fifh-plate to drain before it is laid in the difh. Sauce—lobfter-fauce and white-fauce. Mafon, 211. To boil a Pike. Take a large pike, clean it, and take out the gills ; make a fluffing with fome crumbs of bread grated fine, fome fweet herbs chopped fmall, fome grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, fait, fome oyflers chopped fmall, and a piece of butter. Mix up thefe ingredients with the yolks of two eggs; put it into the fifh, and few it up ; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump water, with fome vinegar and fait in it. When it boils^ put in the fifh ; it will take more than half an hour, if it is a large one. Oyfler fauce. Pour fome over the fifh, the reft in a boat. Mafon, 232.