3*8 Creams. finifh it with rennet. Serve either with or without cream. Clermont, 603. Pijlachio Cream. Take half a pound of Piftachio nuts, break them, and take out the kernels ; beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, put them into a tofling-pan, with a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs beat very fine ; ftir it gently over a flow fire till it is thick, but do not let it boil, then put it into a china foup-plate; when it is cold, flick fome kernels, cut longways, all over it, and fend it to table. Glaffe, 292. Raffald, 248. Farley, 310. Coffee Cream. Roafl one ounce of coffee, put it hot into a pint and an half of boiling cream ; boil thefe together a little ; take it off, put in two dried gizzards; cover this clofe, let it (land one hour, fweeten with double-refined fugar ; pafs it two or three time# through a fieve with a wooden l'poon ; put it into a difh with a tin on the top, fet the difh on a gentle flove, put fire upon the top upon the tin ; when it has taken, fet it by. Serve it cold. Tea-cream is made in the fame manner. Alajon, 444. Barley Cream. Boil a quantity of pearl-barley in milk and water till it is tender; then flrain the liquor from it, put your barley into a quart of cream, and let it boil a little ; then take the whites of five eggs, and the yolks of one, beaten wfith a fpoonful of fine flour, and two fpoonfuls of orange-flower water ; then take the cream off the fire, and mix in the eggs by degrees, and fet it over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten it to your tafle, pour it into bafons, and, when cold, ferve it up. Codling Cream. Pare and core twenty codlings, and beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; flrain it into a difh, and put into it fome bread-crumbs, with a little w'hite wine. Send it to table. Goofeberries may be done in the fame manner. • Ice Cream. Take twelve beat them fine ripe apricots, pare, done, and feald them, and in a marble mortar; put to them fix ounces ot double^refined fugar, and a pint of fealding cream, and wrork it through a hair fieve; put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, and fet it in a tub of ice broke fmall, and a large quantity of fait put among it. "When you fee your cream grow thick round the edges of your tin, ltir it, and fet it in again till it mows