Made Difhes of Veal. 67 Bombarded Veal another way. / Cut the bone nicely out of a fillet, make a force-meat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a little lemon-peel, or lemon thyme, parfley, two or three fprigs of fweet marjoram, one anchovy; chop them all very well, grate a little nutmeg, chyan pepper and fait to your palate ; mix all up together with an egg and a little cream, and fill up the place where the bone came out with the force-meat; then cut the fillet acrofs, in cuts about one inch from another, all round the fillet; fill one nick with force-meat, a fecond with boiling fpi- nach, that is boiled and well fqueezed, a third with bread-, crumbs, chopped oyfters, and beef marrow, then force-meat, and fill them up, as above, all round the fillet, wrap the caul clofe round it, and put it in a deep pot with a pint of water ; make a coarfe pafte to lay over it, to keep the oven from giving it a fiery tafte ; when it comes out of the oven, fkim off the fat, and put the gravy in a ftew-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon- pickle, and another of mufhroom catchup, two of browning, half an ounce of morels and truffles, five boiled artichoke bot- toms cut in quarters ; thicken the fauce with flour and butter, give it a gentle boil, and pour it upon the veal into your difh, , Raff aid, 93. Veal Olives d-la-mode. Take two pounds of veal, fome marrow, two anchovies, the yolks of two hard eggs, a few mufhrooms, and fome oyfters, a little thyme, marjoram, parfley, fpinach, lemon-peel, fait, . pepper, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten ; take your veal caul, lay a layer of bacon and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roaft it or bake it. An hour will do either. When enough, cut it into flices, lay it in your I difh, and pour good gravy over it. Garnifh with lemon. ■ Glaffe, 58. Fillet of Veal Jlezved. . Stuff it, half bake it with a little water in the difh, then flew | with hquor and fome good gravy, and a little Madeira ; " enough, thicken it with flour ; add catchup, chyan, a little fait, juice of orange or lemon ; boil it up. Mafon, 139. Fa To To