340 Syllabubs, Blanc-mangey Flummery, Yellow Flummery. Beat and open two ounces of ifinglals, put it into a bowl, and over it a pint of boiling water ; cover it up till it is almoft cold; then add a pint of white wine, the rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, the yolks of eight eggs, well beat, and fweeten it to your tafte, then put it into a tofling-pan, and continue ftirring it. When it boils, ftrain it; and, when almoft: cold, put it into moulds or cups. Solomon’s Yemple in Flummery. Having made a quart of ItifF flummery, divide it into three parts ; make one part of a pretty thick colour, with a little co- chineal bruifed fine, and fleeped in French brandy -T fcrape one ounce of chocolate very fine, diffolve it in a little ftrong coffee,, and mix it with another part of your flummery to make it a light ftone-colour. The laft part muft be white. Then wet your temple mould, and fix it in a pot to ftand even ; then fill the top of the temple with red flummery, for the fteps, and the four points with white; then fill it up with chocolate-flummery. Let it Hand till the next day, then loofen it round with a pin, and fhake it loofe very gently, but do not dip your mould in warm water, it will take off the glofs, and fpoil the colour. When you turn it out, flick a fmall fprig, or flower-flalk, down from the top of every point, it will flrengthen them, and make them look pretty. Lay round it rock candy fweet-meats. It is proper for a corner difh for a large table. Raffald, 204. Oatmeal Flummery. Put fome oatmeal, into a broad, deep pan, then cover it with water ; ftir it together, and let it ftand twelve hours ; then pour off that water clear, and put on a good deal of frefh water ; fhift it again in twelve hours, and fo on in twelve more ; then pour off the water clear, and ftrain the oatmeal through a coarfe hair fieve, and pour it into a fauce-pan, keeping it ftirring all the time with a flick till it boils, and is very thick ; then pour it into difties. When cold, turn it into plates, and eat it with what you pleafe, either wine and fugar, or beer and fugar, or milk. It eats very well with cider and fugar. French Flummery. Take a quart of cream, and half an ounce of ifinglafs, beat it fine, and ftir it into the cream. Let it boil foftly over a flow fire a quarter of an hour, keep it ftirring all the time ; then take it off, fweeten it to your palate, and put in a fpoonful of rofe- water and a fpoonful of orange-flower water; ftrain it, and