Made Wines, 350 .clear and fine, pour it into a jar. When cold, cover it clofe, and keep it till you make railin wine ; then, when you tun your wine, to every gallon of wine put hall' a pint of elder fyrup. Elder-flower Wine. Take the flowers of elder, but carefully rejeft the flalks. To every quart of flowers, put a gallon of water, and three pounds of loaf fugar. Boil the water and fugar a quarter of an hour, then pour it on the flowers, and let it"work three days. Then {train the wine through a hair fieve, and put it into a calk. To every ten gallons of wine, add an ounce of ifing-glafs diflolved in cider, and fix whole eggs. Clofe it up, let it {land fix months, and then bottle it. Farley, 367, Grape Wine. Put a gallon of grapes to a gallon of water ; bruife the grapes, and let them {land a week without ftirring, then draw it off fine. Put to a gallon of the wine three pounds of fugar, and then put it in a veifel, but do not flop it till it has done hilling. Majon, 465. Orange Wine. Put twelve pounds of the belt powder fugar, with the whites of eight or ten eggs well beaten, into fix gallons of fpring water, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When cold, put into it fix fpoonfuls of yeaft, and the ju’ice of twelve lemons ; which, being pared, muff Hand with two pounds of white fugar in a tankard, and in the morning {kirn off the top, and then put it into the water ; then add the juice and rinds of fifty oranges, but not the white parts of the rinds, and let it work all together two days and two nights ; then add two quarts of Rhenifh or white ■wine, and put it into your veflel. GlaJJe, 301. Another way. Put twenty-four pounds of lump-fugsr to ten gallons of wa- ter, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, and mix them when the water is cold ; then boil it an hour, arid fkim it well ; take four dozen large rough Seville oranges, pare them very thin, put them into a tub, and put the liquor on boiling hot; and, when you think it is cold enough, add to it three or four fpoonfuls of new yeaft, with the juice of the oranges, and half an ounce of cochineal beat fine, and boiled in a pint of water; ftir it all together, and let it work four days, then put it in the calks, and in fix weeks after bottle it for ufe. Rajfald, 318. __ Red Currant Wine. Gather the currants on a fine dry day, when the fruit is full ripe;