3*3 Rrefcrving. Red or white Currant Jelly. Boil your currants in a preferving pan till the juice will eafily mafh through a fieve or coth ; put in an equal quantity of clari- fied fugar and juice, boil and fcum it till it will jelly. When cold, put on paper dipped in brandy. Black Currant Jelly. Gather your currants on a dry day when they are ripe ; pick them from the ftalk|, put them into a large ftew-pot, and put a quart of water to ^very ten quarts of currants ; fet them in a cool oven for two hours, having firft tied a paper over them ; then fqueeze them through a very fine cloth, and to every quart of juice add a pound and an half of loaf-fugar broken into fmall pieces. Stir it g ntly till the fugar is melted, and when it boils, fkim it well. Let it boil pretty thick for half an hour over a clear fire, then pour it into pots, and put brandy papers over them. Raff aid, 2H. Farley, 321. Orange Jelly. Take half a pound of hartlhorn fhavings, or four ounces of ifing-glafs, and boil it in fpring-water till it is of a ftrong jelly ; take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and lix. China oranges, and the rind of one Seville orange and one lemon, pared very thin ; put them to your jelly, fweeten it with loaf- fugar to your palate ; beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, and mix well in, then boil it for ten minutes, then run it through a jelly-bag till' it is very clear, and put it in moulds till cold, then dip your mould in warm water, and turn it out into a China dilh, or a flat glafs, and garnifh with flowers. Glaffe, *95- Rafpberry Jelly. Make it in the fame manner as currant-jelly, only put one half currants, and the other half rafpberries. Ifing-glafs Jelly. r5ou an ounce of lfing glafs, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves, in a quart of water, till it is reduced to a pint, then flrain it over fome> fugar. Ribband Jelly. Take four calf s feet, take out the great bones, and put the feet into a poj: with ten quarts of water, three ounces of hartf- horn, three ounces of ifing-glafs, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace ; boil it till it comes to two quarts, flrain it through a flannel bag, let it (land twenty-four hours, then fcrape off all the fat from the top very clean, then flice it, put to it the Y 2 whites