The Family Fhyjician. 3^3 The Gripes in Children. When an infant is troubled with gripes, it ought not at firffc to be dofed with brandy, fpiccries, and other hot things; but ihould have its body opened with an emollient clyfter, and, at the fame time, a little brandy may be rubbed on its belly with a warm hand before the fire. I have feldom feen this tad to eafe the gripes of infants. If it Ihould happen, however, not to fuc- ceed, a bttle brandy, or other [pints, may be mixed with thrice the quantity of warm water, and a tea-lpconful be given fre- quently, till the infant be eafier. Sometimes a little peppermint water will anfwer this purpofe very well. The Hooping, or Chin Cough, One of the mod effectual remedies in the chin-cough, is change of air. This often removes the malady, even when the change feems to be from a purer, to a lefs wholefome air. This may, in fome meafure, depend on the patient’s being removed frcna the place where the infection prevails. Mod of the difeafes of children are infeftious ; nor is it at all uncommon to find the chin* cough prevailing in one town or village, when another, at a very final! diftance, is quite free from it. But whatever be the caufe, we are fure of the fadft. No time ought therefore to be loll in removing the patient to fome diftance from the place where he got the difeafe, and, if poffible, into a more pure and ? warm air. - When the difeafe proves violent, and the patient is in danger of being fuffocated by the cough, he ought to be bled, efpeciaily if there be a fever, with a hard full pulfe. But as the chief in- tention of bleeding is to prevent an inflammation of the lungs, and to render it more fafe to give vomits, it will feldom be ne- ceftary to repeat the operation ; yet if there be fymptoms of aa inflammation of the lungs, a fecond, or even a third bleeding, f may be requifite. The body ought to be kept gently open. The beft medicines for this purpofe are rhubarb and its preparations, as the fyrup, tin&ure, &c. Of thefe a tea-fpoonful or two may be- given to Ian infant twice or thrice a day, as there is occafion. To fuch as are farther advanced, the dole muft be proportionally incrcafed, and repeated till it has the defiretl effe&. Thole who cannot -be brought to take the bitter tin£ture, may have an infufion of* fenna and prunes, fweetened with manna, coarfe fugar, or ho- ney ; or a few grains of rhubarb mixed with a tea-fpoonful or tyra of fyrup, or currant jelly, fo as to difguife the tafte. Moft children.