Made Difhes bf Mutt oft. with cloves, two or three blades of mace, fome whole pepper, and three quarts of gravy; cover it clofe, and let it boil f'oftly for two hours ; meanwhile get ready a fweetbread fplit, cut into four and broiled, a few truffles and morels ftewed in a quarter of a pint of ftrong gravy, a glafs of red wine, a few mufhrooms, two fpoonfuls of catchup, and fome afparagus tops ; boil all thefe together, then lay the mutton in the middle of the difli, cut the beef or veal into flices, make a rim round your mutton with the flices, and pour the ragoo over it. When you have taken the meat out of the pot, fkim all the fat off the gravy, ft rain it, and add as much to the other as will fill the difh. Garnifh with lemon. GtaJ/e, 45. To roafi a Leg of Mutton with Oyjlers. Make a force-meat of beef-fuet chopped fmall, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, with three anchovies, a fmall bit of onion, thyme, favoury, and fome oyfters, (a dozen or fourteen) all cut- fine ; fome fait, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs; fluff the mutton under the fkin in the thickeft part, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For fauce— fome oyfter-liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and fome more oyfters ftewed, and laid under the mutton. Le Maitre, 74. Another way. Cut feveral holes in the mutton, beard fome oyfters, and roll them in crumbs of bread and nutmeg ; put three oyfters into each hole; if it is roafted, cover it with a caul; but if it is boiled, put it in a cloth, and pour oyfter-fauce over it. Leg of Mutton with Cockles. Stuff your mutton in every part with cockles, roaft it, and gar- nilh with horfe-raddh. Glafje, 46. Farley, 110. To force a Leg of Mutton . the fhin, and take out the lean part of the mutton, chop it exceeding fine, with one anchovy ; fhred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper, and la t to your tafte; make them into a force-meat, with three eggs and a large glafs of red wine; fill up the fkin with the force- meat,