264 Of Puddings* ftir into it a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of fugar> half a fmall nutmeg grated, five yolks and three whites of eggs; beat them well up all together, pour it into a difh, and bake it. Mafon, 375. Another. Take the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat them toge- ther, with two large fpoonfnls of flour, a little, fait, and half a pint of milk or cream ; make it the thicknefs of a pancake bat- ter, and beat all very well together. It will take half an hour to boil it. An excellent Plum Pudding. Take one pound of fuet, one pound of currants, and one pound of raifins ftoned ; the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four ; the crumb of a penny-loaf grated, one pound of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-fpoonful of grated ginger, a little fait, and a fmall glafs of brandy; beat the eggs firffc, mix them with, fome milk. By degrees add the flour and other ingredients, and what more, milk may be neceflary; it mud be very thick and well ftirred. It will require five hours boiling. A Potatoe Pudding. Boil a quarter of a pound of potatoes till they are foft, peel them, and mafh them with the back of a fpoon, and rub them through a fieve to have them fine and fmooth. Then take half a pound of freih butter melted, half a pound of fine fugar, and beat them well together till they are fmooth. Beat fix eggs, both yolks and whites, and ftir them in with a glafs of fack or brandy. You may, if you pleafe, add half a pint of currants. Boil it half an hour. Melt fome butter, and put into it a glafs of white wine ; fweeten with fugar, and pour it over it. Far-, ley, 190. A Quaking Pudding. Take a quart of cream, boil it, and let it Hand till almoft cold, then beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, with a fpoon- ful and a half of flour ; then mix them with your cream, add fugar and nutmeg to your palate, tie it clofe up in a cloth well buttered ; let it boil an hour, and turn it carefully. Raffaldi 180. A Rabbit Pudding. Take the meat of a large roafted rabbit, chop it very fine with the liver, foak the bones i 1 a pint of cream about an hour ; boil fix onions in broth, w>th a faggot of parfley, fhallots, two cloves, pepper, and fait; boil it till the liquid is of a thick con- fidence.