Of F'tjh. 227 eight or nine minutes; then take out the fifli, and lay them on a fifh plate. Shrimp or oyfter-fauce. To drefs Cod Sounds. Steep them as you do the fait cod, and boil them in a large quantity of milk and water. When they are very tender and white, take them up, and drain the water out; then pour the egg-fauce boiling hot over them, and ferve them up. To broil Cod Sounds. Lay them a few minutes in hot water; then take them out, and rub them well with fait, and take off the (kin and black dirt, when they will look white. After this, put them into wa- ter, and give them a boil. Take them out, flour them well, pepper and fait them, and then put them on the gridiron. As foon as they are enough, lay them on your difli, and pour melted butter and muflard over them. To broil Crimp Cod. Having put a gallon of pump-water into a pot, fet it on the fire, put in it an handful of fait; boil it up feveral times, and fkim it often. When it is well cleared from the fcum, take a mid- ling cod, as freih as you can get, throw it into a tub of frelh pump water ; let it lie a few minutes, and then cut it into flices two inches thick ; throw thefe into the boiling brine, and let it boil brifldy for a few minutes ; then take out the flices ; take great care not to break them, and lay them on a fieve to drain. When they are well dried, flour them, and lay them at a dis- tance upon a very good fire to broil. Lobfter or fhrimp fauce. Mafon, 220. To drefs Herrings. The mod general way of drefling herrings is to broil or fry them, with melted butter. To fry Herrings. Scale them, gut them, cut off their heads, wafh them clean, dry them in a cloth, flour them, and fry them in butter. Have ready a good many onions peeled and cut thin. Fry them of a light brown with the herrings. Lay the herrings in your difh, and the onions round ; butter and muflard in a cup. You muft do them with a quick fire. Glajfe, 180. Another way. Scale, clean, and dry them well; lay them Separately on a board, and fet them to the fire two or three minutes before you want them, it will keep the fifh from flicking to the pan ; duft them with flour. When your dripping, or butter, is boiling Q. 2 hot,