25S Of Puddings. water twice in the boiling ; put a thin cruft in the bottom anti rims of your difh. It will take half an hour to bake it. Another way. Pare twelve large pippins, and take out the cores ; put them into a fauce-pan, with four or five fpoonfuls of water, and boil them till they are foft and thick. Then beat them well, ftir in a pound of loaf fugar, the juice of three lemons, and the peels of two cut thin and beat fine in a mortar, and the yolks of eight feggs beaten. Mix all well together, and bake it in a flack oven. When nearly done, throw over it a little fine fugar. You may, if you pleafe, bake it in a puff pafte, at the bottom of the difh, and round the edges of it. Glaffe, 217. Farley, 198. Apple Dumplings. Having pared and taken out the core of your apples, fill the hole with quince, or orange marmalade, or fugar, (which ever belt fuits); then take a piece of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you was going to make a pie \ lay in your apple, and put another piece of pafte in the fame form, and clofe it up round the fide of your apple. It is much preferable to the me- thod of gathering it in a lump at one end. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour; pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up. Five is fufficient for a difh. Raf- fald, 183. Farley, 198. An Apricot Pudding. Coddle fix large apricots very tender, break them very frnall, fweeten them to your tafte; when they are cold add fix eggs, and only two whites, well beat; mix them all well together, with a pint of good cream ; lay a puff-pafte all over your difh, and pour in your ingredients. Bake it half an hour ; but the oven fliould not be too hot. When it is enough, throw 3 little fine fugar all over it, and fend it to table. GlafJ'e, 272. Farley, 189. A Batter Pudding. Take a quart of milk, beat up the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of three, and mix them with a quarter of a pint of milk. Take fix fpoonfuls of flour, a tea-fpoonful of fait, and one of beaten ginger. Mix them all together, boil them an hour and a quarter, and pour melted butter over the pudding. 'Vou may, if you think proper, put in half a pound of prunes, or currants, and two or three more eggs. Or you may make it without eggs, in the following manner: Take a quart of milk, mux ft* fpowftfuls of the flour with a little of the milk fifth a ' ' fSUf , * * * ' ’ •