2-p Of Sauces. 1 leaves, Bread-fauce for a pig is made the fame, with the addition of a few currants picked, walked, and boiled in it. Mint Sauce. Wafh your mint perfectly clean from grit and dirt, chop it Very fine, and put to it vinegar and fugar. Sauce Robert. Cut fome large onions into fquare pieces, cut fome fat bacon in the fame manner, put them together in a fauce-pan over the fire, (hake them round to prevent their burning. When they are brown, put in fome good veal gravy* with a little pepper and fait; let them flew gently till the onions are tender, then put in a little fait, fome multard and vinegar, and ferve it hot. Mafont 323. Farley, 140. Another way. Slice feveral onions, fry them in butter, turning often till they' take colour ; then add a little cullis and good broth, pepper and fait; let them boil half an hour, and reduce to a fauce ; when ready, add muftard. You may fift it for thofe who only like the flavour of onions. Dalrymple, 41. Anchovy Sauce. Put an anchovy into a pint of gravy, then take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and ftir all together till it boils. You may add a little juice of lemon, catchup, red wine, and walnut liquor, juft as you think proper. Plain butter melted thick, with a fpoonful of walnut pickle, or catchup, is a good fauce, or anchovy : in fhort, you may put as many things as you pleafe into fauce. Glajje, 123. Shrimp Sauce. Wafti half a pint of fhrimps very clean, and put them into a ftew-pan, with a fpoonful of anchovy liquor, and a pound of butter melted thick. Boil it up for five minutes, and fqueeze in half a lemon. Tofs it up, and put it into your fauce- boat. To crifp Parjley. Having picked and washed j'cur parfley, put it into a Dutch oven, or on a Ibeet of paper ; do not fet it too near the fire ; turn it till it is quite crifp. Lay little bits of butter on it, but not to be greafy. It is a better method than that of frying it. Plain Sour Sauce. Take fome frefli forrel-leaves, pick off the ftalks, bruife the