Of Sauces. 248 A Family Cullis. Take a piece of butter rolled in flour, ftir it in your (lew-pan till the flour takes a fine yellow colour; then add fmall broth, a little gravy, a glafs ol white wine, a bundle of parfley, thyme, laurel, and fweet bafil, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mufhrooms, whole pepper, and fait; boil for an hour on a flow fire ; fift it through a lawn fieve, well fkimmed irom fat. This cullis is made either with meat or fifh broth, according to your fancy. Clermont, 9. To make Lemon Pickle. Take twenty-four lemons, grate off the out-rinds very thin, and cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole, rub on them equally half a pound of bay-falt, and fpread them on a large pewter difh ; either put them in a cool oven, or let them dry gradually by the fire, till all the juice is dried into the peels ; then put them into a well-glazed pitcher, with an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of cloves beat fine, an ounce of nut- meg cut into thin flices, four ounces of garlick peeled, half a pint of muftard-feed bruifed a little, and tied in a muffin bag ; pour two quarts of boiling white, wine vinegar upon them, clofe the pitcher well up, and let it (land five or fix days by the fire ; fhake it well up every day, then tie it up, and let it (land for three months to take off the bitter. When you bottle it, put the pickle and lemon in an hair fieve, prefs them well to get out the liquor, and let it (land till another day, then pour off the fine, and bottle it. Let the other (land three or four days, and it will refine itfelf. Pour it off, and bottle it ; let it (land again, and bottle it .till the whole is refined. It may be put into any white fauce, and will not hurt the colour. It is very good tor fifli-fauce and made-difhes. A tea-fpoonful is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl. It is a molt ufe- ful pickle, and gives a pleafant flavour. Always put it in be- fore you thicken the fauce, or put any cream in, left the (harp- pefs fhptfld make it curdle. Raffald, 80. CHAP.