\ Made DlJJoes of Beef 49 turn them, and when the other fide is brown, lay them on a hot difh, with a dice of butter between each fteak; fprinkle a little pepper and fait over them, let them (land two or three minutes, then dice a diallot (as thin as podible) into a fpoonful of water, lay on your deaks again, keep turning them till they are enough, put them on your difh, pour the fhallot and water amongft them, and fend them to tables Farley, 49. Another way. Firft have a very clear brifk fire: let your gridiron be very clean ; put it on the fire, and take a chafing-dilh with a few hot coals out of the fire. Put the difh on it which is to lay your fteaks on, then take fine rump deaks about half an inch thick ; put a little pepper and fait on them, lay them on the gridiron, and (if you like it) take a fhallot or two, or a fine onion, and cut it fine ; put it into your dilh. Keep turning your deaks quick till they are done, for that keeps the gravy in them. When the fteaks are enough, take them carefully off into your dilh, that none of the gravy be loft ; then have ready a hot difh and cover, and carry them hot to table with the cover on. You may fend fhallots in a plate, chopped fine. If you love pickles or horfe-radidi with deaks, never garnifh your difh, becaufe the garnifhing will be dry, and the fteaks will be cold, but lay thofe things on little plates, and carry to table. —The great nicety is to have them hot, and full of gravy. GlaJJe, 7. To fry Beef Steaks. Take fome fteaks, cut out of the middle of the rump, fry them in butter ; when they are done, put a little fmall beer into the pan, if not bitter, the gravy which runs from the fteaks, a little nutmeg, a fhallot, fome walnut catchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; fhake it round the pan till it boils, and pour it over the fteaks. Some ftewed oyfters may be added, or pickled mufhrooms. Mafon, 127. Another way. Cut your fteaks as for broiling, put them into a dew-pan with a good lump of butter, fet them over a very flow fire, keep turning frhem till the butter is become a thick white gravy, pour it into a E bafon.