Syllabubs, Blanc-many e, Flummery 3 &c. 337 A Lemon Syllabub. Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the rind of two lemons grated, and the juice ; fugar it to the tafte ; let it ftand fome time; mill or whip it; lay the froth on a fieve ; put the remainder into glades; lay on the froth ; make them the day be- fore they are wanted. If they are to tafte very ftrong of the lemon, put the juice of fix lemons, and near a pound of fugar 3 they will .keep four or five days. Mafon, 448. Solid Syllabub. To a quart of rich cream, put a pint of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one grated ; fweeten it to your tafte. Whip it up well, and take off the froth as it rifes ; put it upon a hair fieve, and let it ftand in a cool place till the next day. More than half fill your glades with the thin, and then heap up the froth as high as you can ; the bottom will look clear, and keep for four or dve days. Syllabub under the Cow. Put into a punch-bowl a pint of cider, and a bottle of ftrong beer ; grate in a fmall nutmeg, and fvfeeten it to your tafte ; then milk from the cow as much milk as will make a ftrong froth. Then let it ftand an hour ; ftrew over it a few currants well wadted, picked, and plumped before the fire, and it will be fit for fervice. Farley, 327. Everlajltny Syllabub. Take five half pints of thick cream, half a pint of rhenifh, half a pint of fack, and the juice of two large Seville oranges ; grate in juft the yellow rind of three lemons, and a pound of double-redned fugar well beat and fifted. Mix all together with a fpoonful of orange-dower water ; beat it well with a whifk half an hour, then with a fpoon take it off, and lay it on a fieve to drain ; then fill your glaffes. Thefe will keep above a week, and are better made the day before. The bed; way to whip fyllabub is,—have a fine large chocolate mill, which you mult keep on purpofe, and a large deep bowl to mill them in ; it is quicker done, and the froth is ftronger. For the thin that is left at the bottom, have ready fome calf’s foot jelly, boiled and clarified. There muft be nothing but the calf’s foot boiled to a • hard jelly. When cold, take off the fat, clear it with the whites of eggs, run it through a dannel bag, and mix it with the clear which you faved of the fyllabub. Sweeten it to your palate, Z and