345 Pojfets, Gruels, JWhite-pots, &c. Wine Pojfet. Boil the crumb of a penny loaf in a quart of milk till it is foft, then take it off the fire, and grate in half a nutmeg; put in fugar to your tafte ; then put it in a china bowl, and put in by degrees a pint of Lifbon wine. Serve it up with toaft and butter upon a plate. Ale Pojfet. Put a little white bread into a pint of milk, and fet it over the fire ; then put fome nutmeg and fugar into a pint of ale, warm it, and when your milk boils, pour it upon the ale. Let it hand a few minutes to clear, and the curd will rife to the top. Panada. Put a blade of mace, a large piece of the crumb of bread, and a quart of water into a fauce-pan. Let it boil two minutes, then take out the bread, and bruife it very fine in a bafon. Mix as much water as you think it will require, pour away the reft, and fweeten it to your palate. Put in a piece of butter as big as a walnut, but do not put in any wine, as that will fpoil it. Grate in a little nutmeg. Farley, 429, from GlaJJ'e, 243. . A fweet Panada. Slice the crumb of a penny loaf very thin, and put it into a fauce-pan with a pint of water; boil it till it is very foft and looks clear; then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, and fugar to your tafte ; beat it exceedingly fine, then put it in a deep foup-dilh, and ferve it up. N. B. You may leave out the wine and fugar, and put in a little cream and fait, if you like it better. Raffald, 316. A White-pot. Take two quarts of milk, eight eggs, and half the whites, beat up with a little rofe-water, a nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of fugar ; cut a penny loaf in very thin flices, and pour milk and eggs over. Put a little piece of butter on the top. Bake it hall an hour in a How oven. A Rice White-pot. Boil a pound of rice in two quarts of milk till it is tender and thick. Beat it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound ot fweet almonds blanched. Then boil two quarts of cream, with a few crumbs of white bread, and two or three blades of mace. Mix it well with eight eggs, and a little-rofe-water, and fweeten to your tafte. Cut fome candied orange or citron-peels thin, and