230 Of Fijh. N. B. If you chufe cockle or oyfler liquor, put it in juft be- fore you thicken the fauce, or you may fend oyfters, cockles, or fhrimps, in a fauce-boat to table. Raffald, 31. To fry Soals. Having fkinned them, rub them over with yolk of egg, ftrew on them very fine bread-crumbs, or flour them ; fry them with a brifk fire.—Anchovy fauce. Another way. Scale and trim the foals properly, and (kin the black fide; mix fome bread-crumbs with a very little flour ; bafte the foals with beat eggs, and ftrew them over with the bread-crumbs ; fry them in hogs’-lard of a good colour. (jarnifh with fried parfley, and ferve with anchovy fauce, &c. in a fauce-boat. Dalrymple, 312. To marinade Soals. Boil them in fait and water, bone and drain them, and lay them on a difh with their belly upwards. Boil fome fpinach, and pound it in a mortar; then boil four eggs hard, chop the yolks and white feparate, and lay green, white, and yellow among the foals, and ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. Farley, 136. * To fry Whitings. Gut the whitings by the gills, trim and dry them well, bathe them with beat eggs, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs, mixed with a very little flour; fry them with hogs’-lard of a good co- lour, and garnilh with fried parfley. Serve with plain butter, or what fauce you think proper, in a fauce-boat. Another way. Wafh, gut, and fkin them, turn the tails in their mouths, dry them in a cloth, and flour them well all over; fill the frying-pan with lard enough to cover them. When it boils, put them in, and fry them of a fine brown. Lay them on a coarfe cloth to. drain, then put them on a warm dilh. Sauce—flirimp, oyfter, or anchovy. They are proper garnifh for falmon or cod. Mafon, 227. To broil Whitings or Haddocks. Gut and wafh them, dry them with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, it will keep the fkin on better. Duft them well with flour, rub your gridiron with butter, and let it be very hot when you lay the fifh on, or they will flick ; turn them two or three times on the gridiron. When enough, ferve them up, and lay pickles round them, with plain melted butter, or cockle fauce. They are a pretty difh for fupper. Raffald, 35.’ Mackarcl