Made Dipes of Poultry, &c, 139 the fkin all round-the turkey, and fluff it. It mufl be roafled. Glajfe, 383. p0 drefs a Turkey or Fowl to perfection. Bone them, and make a force-meat thus:—Take the flefh of | a fowl, cut it fmall, then take a pound of veal, beat it in a mor- tar, with half a pound of beef fuet, as much crumbs of bread, fome mufhrooms, truffles, and morels, cut fmall, a few fweet herbs and parfley, with fome nutmeg, pepper, and fait, a little mace beaten, fome lemon-peel cut fine; mix all thefe together with the yolks of two eggs, then fill your turkey, and road it. This will do for a large turkey, and fo in proportion for a fowl. Let your fauce be good gravy, with mufhrooms, truffles, and morels in it. Then garnifh with lemon, and, for variety fake* you may lard your fowl or turkey. A glazed Turkey. The turkey mud be young, but not fmall. When it is picked, drawn, and finged, lay it a little while over a clear charcoal fire, but turn it often ; have ready a ragoo of fweetbreads, take off the turkey, fplit it down the back, fill it with this ragoo, few it up, and lard it with bacon ; then lay at the bottom of a deep dew-pan, fird fome dices of ham, then fome dices of veal, and then fome dices of beef; lay the turkey upon thefe, drew over fome fweet herbs, and cover them dole; let thefe dew over a dow fire. When they are enough, take off the {lew-pan, take out the tur- key, and then pour into the turkey a little good broth, flir it about, and drain off the liquor; Ikim off the fat, fet it over the, fire again, and boil it to a jelly ; then put in the turkey, and fet the pan over a gentle fire or a dove ; it will be foon well glazed ; then pour into the difh fome eflence of ham, and then put in the turkey. Mafon, 261. To roaf a Turkey with Cray-fip. Take a young turkey, in Odfober or November, let it be truffled as for roading; make fome force-meat with fome fat ba- con, fuet, and the white of a chicken, all cut as fine as poflible, and fome frefh mudirooms, minced very fine; mix thefe ingre- dients well together, with lome fait, pepper, the leaves of fweet herbs picked clean from the dalles, and a little grated nutmeg ;