Of Soups. »95 ] O 2 with Plum Porridge for Chriflmas. Put a leg and fhin of beef into eight gallons of water, and boil them till they are very tender. When the broth is drong, drain it out. Then wipe the pots, and put in the broth again. Slice fix penny loaves thin, cut off the tops and bottoms, put fome of the liquor to them, and cover them up, and let them dand for a quarter of an hour. Then boil and drain it, and put it into your pot. Let them boil a little, and then put in five pounds of dewed raifins of the fun, and two pounds ot prunes. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in five pounds of currants clean walked and picked. Let thefe boil till they fwell, and then put in three quarters of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, and two nutmegs, all beat fine. Before you put thefe into the pot, mix them with a little cold liquor, and do not put them in but a little while before you take off the pot. When you take off the pot, put in three pounds of fugar, a little fait, a quart of fack, a quart of claret, and the juice of two or three ■, lemons. You may thicken with fago indead of bread, if you ! pleafe. Pour your porridge into earthen pans, .and keep it for i ufe. Farley, 162. Soup and Bouillie. For the bouillie, roll five pounds of brifketvof beef tight with a tape. Put it into a dew-pan, with four pounds of the leg of h mutton piece of beef, and about feven or eight quarts of water. Boil thefe up as quick as poffible, fkim it very clean ; add one large onion, fix or feven cloves, fome whole pepper, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, and two heads of celery. Stew this very gently, clofe covered, for fix or feven hours. 1 About an hour before dinner, drain the foup through a piece of dimity that has been dipped in cold water. Put the rough fide upwards. Have ready boiled carrots cut like little wheels, tur- nips cut in balls, fpinach, a little chervil and forrel, two heads of endive, one or two of celery cut in pieces. Put thefe into a tureen, with a Dutch loaf, or a French roll dried, after the <§1 crumb is taken out. Pour the foup to thefe boiling hot. Add i a little fait and chyan. Take the tape from the bouillie ; ferve it in a feparate difh ; mafhed turnips, and fiiced carrots, in two little difhes. The turnips and carrots fhould be cut with an in- 4 drument that may be bought for that purpofe. Mafon, 187. A Tranfparent Soup. Cut the meat from a leg of veal in fmali pieces, and when ( you have taken all the meat from the bone, break the bone in t fmali pieces. Put the meat in a large jug, and the bones at top,