of Vegetables, Fruits, &e. 253 into a frying-pan, in which is prepared a quarter of a pound of hot butter. " Throw in a little boiled ham, fcraped fine, fome’ fhred parfley, and feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Fry it brown on the under fide, and lay it on your difh, but do not turn it. Hold a hot falamander over it for half a minute, to take off the raw look of the eggs. Some put in clary and chives, and fome put in onions. Serve it with curled parfley ftuck in it. An Amulet with Onions. Fry four fliced onions in butter, till they are quite done. Add the yolks of three eggs, and a little chopped parfley. Make two fmall amulets without fait, put the onions upon them, and a few' fillets of anchovies ; roll them lengthways. Have ready fome pieces of bread cut like toafls, and fried in butter. Cut the amulets the fame fize of the bread upon which you put them. Pour a little melted butter over, and drew them with rafped Par- mefan cheefe and bread crumbs. Give them a colour in the oven, and ferve with a relifhing-fauce under. Dalrymple, 413. To ragoo Cauliflowers. Take a large cauliflower, or two fmall ones, pick as if you intended them for pickling ; flew them till they are enough in a rich brown cullis, feafoned with pepper and fait; put them in a difh, and pour the cullis over them. Boil fome fprigs of the cauliflower very white, and lay round them. MaJ'on, 337. Farley, Si. To broil Potatoes. Boil them, then peel them, cut them in two, and hroil them till they are brown on both fides; then lay them in the plate or difh, and pour melted butter over them. To fry Potatoes. Cut your potatoes into thin flices, as large as a crown piece, fry them brown, lay them in the plate or dilh, pour melted but- ter and fack and fugar over them. Thefe make a pretty corner plate. J T0 majh Potatoes. Loil them, peel them, and put them into a fauce-pan ; mafli them well, and put a pint of milk to two pounds of potatoes; add a little fait, ftir them well together, and take care that they do not flick to the bottom ; then take a quarter of a pound of butter, ftir it in, and ferve it up. To fcollop Potatoes. Having firft boiled your potatoes, beat them fine in a bowl with