29o Of Pickling* and let It Hand twenty-four hours; then put It into a cullender to drain, and lay it in your jar. Take white-wine vinegar enough to cover it, a little cloves, mace, and all-fpice... rut them in whole, with a little cochineal bruifed fine. Then boil it up, and pour it either hot or cold on your cabbage. Cover it clofe with a cloth till it is cold, if you pour on the pickle liot, and then tie it up clofe, as you do Other pickles. Glaffe, 276. Farley, 246. * * Another way. Take a fine clofe red cabbage, and cut it thin ; then take fome cold ale-allegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace and a few white pepper corns; make it pretty ftrong with fait, and put your cabbage into the allegar as you cut it; tie it clofe down with a bladder, and a paper over that. In a day or two it will be fit for ufe. 70 pickle Mufhrooms. Take the fmalleft mufhrooms you can get, and put them into fpring water, then rub them with a piece of new flannel dipped in fait, and put them into cold fpring water as you do them, to keep their colour; then put them into a fauce-pan, throw a handful of fait over them, cover them clofe, and fet them over the fire four or five minutes, or till you fee they are thoroughly hot, and the liquor is drawn out of them ; then lay them between two clean cloths till they are cold, then put them into glafs bot- tles, and fill them up with diflilled vinegar; put a blade or two of mace, and a tea-fpoonful of good oil in every bottle y cork them up clofe, and fet them in a cool place. If you have not any diflilled vinegar, you may ufe white wine vinegar, or even allegar, but it muff be boiled with a little mace, fait, and a few ftices of ginger; it mull be cold before you pour it on your mufhrooms. If your vinegar, or allegar, is too fharp, it will make your mufhrooms foft: neither will they keep li> long, or appear fo white. Rajfald, 355. F0 pickle Cauliflowers. Take the largeft and clofeft you can get; pull them into fprigS, put them in an earthen difh, and fprinkle fait over them. Let them ftand twenty-four hours to draw out all the water, then put them in a jar, and pour fait and water boiling over them ; cover them clofe, and let them ftand till the next day; then take them out, and lay them on a coarfe cloth to drain ; put them into glafs jars', and put in a nutmeg fliced, and two or three blades of mace in each jar. Cover them with diflilled vinegar, and tie J theta