ai4 roll them in it ; put a little butter into a dew-pan, and when it is melted, put in your meat. Fry it of a fine brown, and take care they do not dick to the bottom of the pan ; then pour the gravy from them, and pour in half a pint of brown gravy, a glafs of white wine, a few mufllrooms, or two fpoonfuls of the pickle, a little ialt (if wanted) and a piece of butter rolled ip flour. When it is of a fine thicknefs, difh it up, and fend it to table. You may add truffles and morels, and cocks’ combs. Glajp, 22. A white fricajfee of Chickens or Rabbits. Skin them, cut them to pieces, lay them in warm water; Few them in a little water, with a piece of lemon-peel, a little •white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs. When tender, take them out, drain the liquor, put a very little of it into a quarter of a pint of thick cream, with four ounces of butter, and a little flour ; keep it conftantly (lirring till the butter is melted ; put in the chickens, a little grated lemon-peel and pounded mace, a little lemon-juice and mufhroom-powder ; (hake all together over the fire. If agreea- ble, put in pickled mnfhrooms, and omit the lemon-juice. Ma~. Jon, 266. N. B. You may fricaffee lamb, veal, and tripe, in the fame manner. To fricajfee Rabbits brown. Cut them up as for eating, fry them in butter a light brown, put them into a tofljng-pan, with a pint of water, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, a large fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, chyan pepper and fait to your tade ; flew them over a flow fire till they are enough; thicken your gravy and drain it, dilh up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over. To fricajfee Rabbits white. Having cut up your rabbits, put them into a tofling-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, one an- chovy, a flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, chyan pepper and fait; dew them over a flow fire. When they are enough, thicken your gravy with flour and butter ; drain it, then add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a large tea-cupful ot thick cream, and a little nutmeg grated in it; do not let it boil, and l'erve it up. To fricajfee Tripe. Cut a piece of double tripe in pieces of about two inches; put