*9^ Of Soups, makes good peas-foup in a common way, or any boiled bones. Major,, 194. 1 Teas Soup without Meat. A Britifh herring, with a pint of peas, celery, &c. makes good peas-foup. White Teas Soup. Put four or five pounds of lean beef into fix quarts of water, with a little fait, and as foon as it boils, take off the fcum. Put in three quarts of old green peas, two heads of celery, a little thyme, three onions, and two carrots. Boil them till the meat is quite tender, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and nib the pulp of the peas through the fieve. Split the blanched part of three gofs-lettuces into four quarters, and cut them about an inch long, with a little mint cut fmall. Then put half a pound of butter in a ftew-pan large enough to hold your foup, and put the lettuce and mint into the butter, with a leek fliced very thin, and a pint of green peas. Stew them a quarter of an hour, and fhake them frequently. Then put in a little of the foup, and flew them a quarter of an hour longer. Then put in your foup, as much thick cream as will make it white, and keep (lirring it till it boils. Fry a French roll a little crifp in butter, put it at the bottom of your tureen, and pour over it your foup. Farley, 159. Tart ridge Soup. Skin two old partridges, and cut them into fmall pieces, with three flices of ham, two or three onions fliced, and fome celery ; fry them in butter till they are as brown as they can be made without burning; then put them into three quarts ol water with a few pepper corns. Boil it flowly till a little more than a pint is confumed, then {train it, put in fome ftewed celery and fried bread. Glajfe, 133. Mafon, 198. Raffald, 14. Farley, 155. Soup d-la-Chartre. Take three or four fweet-breads well cleaned in warm wa- ter, and fcalded in boiling; put them in your pot with fcalded cocks’-comtys, a faggot of parfley, green lhallots, three cloves, and a few mufhrooms ; flew all with good broth on a flow fire; have crufls of rolls well foaked in broth in the foup-difh, then put upon this the fvveatbreads, mufhrooms, and cocks’-combs. Clermont, 19, Tor table Soup for Travellers. Cut into fmall pieces three large legs of veal, one of beef, and