Made Difhes of Poultry, &c. 155 T0 boil Ducks, with Onion Sauce. • Scald your ducks and draw them, put them in warm water j for a few minutes, then take them out; put them in an earthen t pot, pour over them a pint of boiling milk, let them lie in it two or three hours. When you take them out, dredge u them well with flour, put them in a copper of cold water, , put on your cover, let them boil flowly twenty minutes, then take them out, and Another them with onion-fauce. Raf- 1 fold, 59. * I 4 Wild Duck, Wlgeon, or Eajlerling, in perfection. Half roaft them; when they come to table, flice the breaft, tj ftrew on pepper and fait, pour on a little red wine, and fqueeze >( the juice of an orange or a lemon over ; put fome gravy to r this, fet the plate on a lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over . the lamp till enough, turning it. Mafon, 273. \ To boil a Duck d-la-Frangoife. Put a pint of rich beef gravy into twm dozen roafled chefnuts peeled, with a few leaves of thyme, two fmall onions (if agree- able), a little whole pepper, and a race of ginger ; then take a fine tame duck, lard it, and half roaft it; put it. into the gravy, let it ftew ten minutes, put in a quarter of a pint of red wine. When the duck is enough, take it out, boil up the gravy to a proper thicknefs; fkim it very clean from fat, lay the duck in : the difh, and pour the fauce over it. To drefs a Duck with green Peas. Put a deep ftew-pan over the fire, with a piece of frefli butter ; finge your duck and flour it, turn it in the pan twro or three mi- nutes, then pour out all the fat, but let the duck remain in the pan ; put to it a pint of good gravy, a pint of peas, two lettuces cut fmall, a fmall bundle ol fweet herbs, a little pepper and fait; covei them clofe, and let them ftew for half an hour; now and then give the pan a fliake. When they are juft done, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a very little beaten mace, and thicken it either with a piece ol butter rolled in flour, or the yolk of an, egg beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream ; lhakc it aft together