The Family Bhyjician. , 373 I have C b 4 ttiiniftered. Clear whey or gruel, fharpened with the juice of le- mon, or cream of tartar, mud be drank freely Small chicken broth, with a little manna dilfolved in it, or a flight decoilion of tamarinds, are like wife very properj or any other thin, acid, opening liquor. In the bilious colic, the vomiting is often very <Jiffi:ult to re- train. When this happens, the patient may di ink a decoflion of toafted bread, or an infufion of garden mint in boiling wa- ter. Should thefe not have the defired effect, the fa ine draught, with a few drops of laudanum in it, may be given, and repeated according to the urgency of the fymptoms. A fmall quantity of Venice treacle may be fpread in form of a cataplafm, and ap- plied to the pit of the flomach. Clyders, with a proper quantity of Venice treacle or liquid laudanum in them, may likewife be frequently adminiftered. The general treatment of the nervous colic is fo nearly the fame with that of the iliac paflion, or inflammation of the guts, that we (hall not infill upon it. The body is to be opened by mild purgatives given in fmall dofes, and frequently repeated ; and their operation mud be aflifled by foft oily clyfters, foment- ations, &c. The caflor oil is reckoned peculiarly proper in this difeafe It may both be mixed with the clyfters, and given by the mouth. Arbuthnot. Buchan. Consumption. This difeafe generally begins with a dry cough, which often continues for fome months. If a difpofition to vomit after eat- ing be excited by it, there is ftill greater reafon to fear an ap- proaching confumption. The patient complains of a more than ufual degree of heat, a pain and oppreflion of the breaft, efpe- cially after motion ; his fpittle is of a faltilh tafle, and fome- times mixed with blood. He is apt to be fad: his appetite is bad, and his third great. There is generally a quick, foft, fmall pulfe; though fometimes the pulfe is pretty full, and rather hard. Thefe are the common fymptoms of a beginning con- fumption. Next to proper air and exercife, we would recommend a due attention to diet. T he patient fhould eat nothing that is either heating, or hard of digeflion ; and his drink mud be of a foft and cooling nature. All the diet ought to be calculated to lef- fen the acrimony of the humours, and to nourifli and fupport the patient, for this propofe he mufl keep chiefly to the ufe of vegetables and milk. Milk alone is of more value in this difeafe than the whole materia medica.