96 Made Difoes of Mutton. meat, but leave the bone and fhank in their place, and it will appear like a whole leg ; lay it on amearthen difh, with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven ; it will take two hours and an half. When it comes out, take off all the fat, drain the gravy over the mutton, lay round it hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mulhrooms. Garnifh with pickles, and ferve it up. Raff aid, 106. Split Leg of Mutton and Onion fauce. Split the leg, from the fhank to the end, dick a fkewer in to keep the nick open, bade it with red wine till it is half roaded, then take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it one anchovy ; fet it over the fire till the anchovy is diffolved, rub the yolk of a hard egg in a little cold butter ; mix it with the wine, and put it in your fauce-boat; put good onion-fauce over the leg when it is roaded, and ferve it up. Du Pont, 116. To make Mutton Ham's. Take a hind quarter of mutton, cut it like a ham, take an ounce of falt-petre, a pound of coarfe fugar, a pound of com- mon fait; mix them, and rub your ham, lay it in a hollow tray with the fkin downwards, bade it every day for a fortnight, then roll it in faw-dud, and hang it in the wood-lmoke a fortnight; then boil it, and hang it in a dry place, and cut it, out in ralhers, and broil it as you want. It eats better broiled than boiled. Jiggot of Mutton with Spanifh Onions. A jiggot of mutton is the leg with part of the loin ; provide fuch a one as has been killed two or three days at lead, thump it well, and bind it with packthread, that you keep whole when you take it out; put it into a pot about its bignefs, and pour in a little of vour broth, and cover it with water; put in about a dozen of Spanifh onions, with the rinds on, three or four car- rots, a turnip or two, lome parlley, and any other herbs you like ; cover down clofe, and dew it gently for three or four hours; but take your onions after an hour’s dewing, and take the find and fecond rinds off; put them into a dew-pan, with a ladle or two of your cullis, a mufhroom or two, or truffles minced, and a little parflev; take your mutton and drain clean from