43 ^ The Family Phyjician. Receipt to thicken the Hair, and make it grow on a bald part. T ake roots of a maiden vine, roots of hemp, and cores of foft cabbages, of each two handfuls; dry and burn them; afterwards ma ve a lye with the afhes. The head is to be wafhed with this lye toree days fucccfTively, the part having been mrevioufly well rubbed with honey. To make Hair block. Firftwafh your head with fpring water, then dip your comb in oil of tartar, and comb yourfelf in the fun: repeat this operation three times a day; and at the end of eight days at moft the hair will turn black. If you are defirous of giving the hair a fine feent, moiften it ■with oil of benjamin. dimple Means of producing the fame Effedl. The leaves of the wild vine change the hair's black, and prevent their falling off. Burnt cork; roots of the holm-oak and caper-tree ; barks ot willow, walnut-tree, and pomegranate; leaves of artichokes, the mulberry-tree, fig-tree, rafpberry-bufh; fhells of beans; gall and Cyprus'nuts; leaves of myrtle ; green fhells of walnuts; ivy-berries, cockle and red beet feeds, poppy-flowers, allum, and moft prepara- .tions of lead. Thefe ingredients may be b iled in rain-water, wine, or vinegar, with the addition of home cephalic plant, as fage, marjoram, balm, betony, clove july-flowers, laurel, &c. See. Objervations upon a Leech, by a Gentleman who kept one Jcvcral Years for the purpofe of a IVeather-glafs. A phial of water, containing a leech, I kept on the frame of my lower chamber window fafh, fo that when I looked in the morning, I could know what would be the weather of the following dav. If the weather proves ferene and beautiful, the leech lies motionlefs at the bottom'of the glafs, and rolled together in a fpiral form. If it rains before or after noon, it is found crept up to the top of its lodging, and there it remains till the weather is fettled. Tf we are to have wind, the poor prifoner gallops through its limpid habitation with amazing fwiftnefs, and feldont refts till it begins to blow hard. If a remarkable ftorrn of thunder and rain is to fucceed, for fome days before it lodges almofl continually without the water, and difeovers uncommon tineafinefs, in violent throes, and convulfive-like motions. In the froft, as in clear Yummer weather, it lies_ conftantly at the bottom. And in fnow, as in rainy weather, it pitches its dwelling upon the very mouth of the phial. What reafons may be afligned for them, I mud leave philofophers to determine, though one thing is evident to every body, that it muff be affefted in the fame way with that of the mercury and fpirits in the weather-glafs, and has doubtlefs a very furprifing fenfation, that the change of weather, even days before, makes a vifible altera- tion upon its manner of living. Perhaps it may pot be amifs to note, left any of the curious fhovild try the experiment, that the leech was kept in a common eight ounce phial glafs, about three-fourths filled with water, and covered on the mouth with a bit of linen-rag. In the l’ummer the water is changed once a week, and in the winter once a fortnight. This is a weather- glafs whic h may be pOrchafed at a very trifling expence, and which .will laft dome years.