4T3 The Family Fhyfician. or the flowers of the lime-tree, may be drank freely, either by themfelves, or fwe’etened with honey, as the patient lhall chufe. The patient ought to take as much exercife in the open air as he can bear. This promotes the perfpiration, and all the other fecretions. Every kind of madnefs is attended with a di- minidied perfpiration ; all means ought therefore to be ufed to promote that neceflary and falutary difcharge. Were he forced 'to ride or walk a certain number of miles every day, it would tend greatly to alleviate his diforder. In the cure of this difeafe particular attention mud be paid to the mind. When the patient is in a low date, bis mind ought to be foothed and diverted with a variety of amufements, as en- tertaining ftories, padimes, mufic, See. When the patient is high, evacuations are neceflary. In this cafe he mud be bled, and have his body kept open by purging medicines, as manna, rhubarb, cream of tartar, or the foluble tartar. I have feen the lad have very happy effheds. It may be taken in the dofe of half an ounce, diflblved in water-gruel, every day, for fundry weeks, or even for months, if necelfary. More or lefs may be given according as it operates. Vomits have likewife a good effedl; but they mud be pretty flrong, otherwife they will not operate. Whatever increafes the evacuation of urine or promotes per- fpiration, has a tendency to remove this difeafe. Both thefe fe- cretions may be promoted by the ufe of nitre and vinegar. JVounds. No part of medicine has been more midaken than the treat- ment or cure of wounds. Mankind in general believe that cer- tain herbs, ointments, and pladers are poflefled of wonderful healing powers, and imagine that no wound can be cured with- out the application of them. It is however a faft, that no ex- ternal application whatever contributes towards the cure of s wound, any other way than by keeping the parts foft, clean,, and defending them from the external air, which may be as ef- fedlually done by dry lint, as by the molt pompous applications, while it is exempt from many of the bad conferences attending them. The fame obfervation holds with refpedl to internal applica- tions. Thefe only promote the cure of wounds as far as they tend to prevent a fever, or to remove any caufe that might ob- drucl or impede the operations of Nature. It is Nature alone that cures wounds. I dull