66 Made Dijhes of Veal. hours, till it is tender. Then ftrain half a pint of the liquor, through a fieve, fet it over a hove, let it boil, and keep ftirring it till it is ol a good brown; but take care not to let it boil. Then add more of the liquor, ftrain off the fat, and keep it ftirring till it becomes thick, and of a fine brown. Then take the veal out of the ftew-pan, wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze ; fet it five or fix minutes over a gentle fi,re, to take the glaze, and then lay it in the difh, with the glazed fide upwards. Put into the fame ftew-pan as much flour as will lie on a fix-pence, ftir it about well, and add fome of the braze powder, if any be left. Let it boil till it is of a proper thicknefs, ftrain it, and pour it into the bottom of ths difh. Squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and fend it to tabLe. parky, 98. Bombarded Veal. You muft get a fillet of veal; cut out of it five lean pieces, as thick as your hand, round them up a little, then lard them very thick on the round fide with little narrow thin pieces of ba- con, and lard five fheeps’ tongues (being firft boiled and blanch- ed) lard them here and there with very little bits of lemon-peel, and make a well-feafoned force-meat of veal, bacon, ham, beef fuet, and an anchovy beat well; make another tender force- meat of veal, beef fuet, mufti rooms, fpinach, parfley, thyme, fweet marjoram, winter favory, and green onions. Seafon with pepper, fait, and mace ; beat it wrell, make a round ball of the other force-meat, and fluff in the middle of this, roll it up in a veal caul, and bake it; what is left, tie up like a Bo- logna faufage, and boil it, but firft rub the caul with the yolk of an egg ; put the larded veal into a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, and flew it gently till it is enough ; fkim off the fat, put in fome truffles and morels, ar.d fome fnufhrooms. Your force- meat Being baked enough, lay it in the middle, the veal round j it, and the tongues fried, and laid between; the boiled, cut . into flices, and fried, and throw all over. Put on them the 1 fauce. You may add artichoke bottoms, fweet-breads, and 1 cocks’-combs, if you plcafe. Garnifh with lemon. Glaffe, 57, I Mafon, 148. ■Bombarded,