3 00 Made Dijhes of Mutton* Another way. Cut a neck of mutton, or a loin, into fhort deaks ; fry them, flour them, put them into a dew-pan with a quart or three pints of beef broth, a carrot diced, a turnip, an onion ftuck with cloves, a few pepper corns, and fome fait; let them dew till tender, they will take three hours, as they fhould do gently: take out the mutton, drain the fauce,. put to it carrots cut in wheels, or any fhape, turnips in ball’s, and celery cut to pieces, all boiled ready ; dimmer thefe a minute or two in the fauce, Iajr the mutton in the difh, and pour the fauce over. If it cannot be ferved immediately, put the mutton into the fauce to keep hot. Majon, 166. A Harrico of a Neck of Mutton. Cut the bed end of a neck of mutton into chops, in Angle ribs, flatten them, and fry them a light brown ; then put them into ar large fauce-pan with two quarts of water, a large carrot cut in flices, cut at the edge like wheels; when they have dewed a quarter of an hour, put in two turnips cut in fquare flices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of afparagus, two cabbage lettuces fried, and chyan to your tade; boil them all to- gether till they are tender ; the gravy is not to be thickened; put it into a tureen or foup-difh. It is proper for a top difh. Du- Pont, 89. Neck of Mutton called The Hafly Difh. Take a large pewter or fllver difh, made like a deep foup-diflir. with an edge about an inch deep on the infide, on which the lid fixes (with a handle at top) fo fad that you may lift it up full by that handle without falling. This difh is called a necro- mancer. Take a neck of mutton of about fix pounds, take off the fkin, cut it into chops, not too thick, flice a French roll thin, peel and flice a very large onion, pare and flice three or four turnips, lay a row of mutton in the difh, on that a row of roll, then a row of turnips, and then onions; a little fait, then the meat, and fo on ; put to it a little bundle of fweet herbs, and two or three blades of mace ; have a tea-kettle of water boiling, fill the difh, and cover it clofe ; hang the difh on the back of. ■two chairs by the rim, have ready three fliects of brown paper, tear k *i 0)] |cbc *3