37a ^he Family Bhyficlan, it. 1 Burns. In flight burns, which do not break the {kin, it is cuflortiary to hold the part near the fire, for a competent time ; to rub it with fait; or to lay a comprefs upon it dipped in fpirits of wine or brandy. But when the burn has penetrated fo deep as to blifter or break the {kin, it mult be drefled with fome of the fol- lowing liniment:— - Take equal parts of Florence oil, or of fre{h drawn linfeed oil, and lime-water; fhake them well together in a wide mouthed bottle, fo as to form a liniment. It may either be fpread upon a cloth, or the parts affedled may be anointed with it twice or thrice a-day ; or it may be drefled with the emollient and gently drying ointment, commonly called Turner's cerate. This may be mixed with an equal quantity of frefh olive oil, and fpread upon a foft rag, and applied to the part affe&ed. When this ointment cannot be had, an egg may be beat up with about an equal quantity of the fweeteft'fallad oil. This will ferve very well till a proper ointment can be prepared. When the burning is very deep, after the firfl: two or three days, it fltould be drefled with equal parts of yellow hafilicurn, and Turner's ce- rate, mixed together. When the bum is violent, or has occafioned a high degree cf inflammation and there is reafon to fear a gangrene or mor- tification, the fame means mud be ufed to prevent it as are re- commended in other violent inflammations. The patient, in this cafe, mud live low, and drink freely of weak diluting li-- quors. He mud likewife be bled, and have his body kept open. But'if the burnt parts fliould become livid or black, with other fymptoms of mortification, it will be neceflary to bathe them frequently with warm camphorated fpirits of wine, tindhire of \ myrrh, or other antifeptics, mixed with a decodlion of the bark. ] In this cafe, the bark mud be taken internally, and the patient’s diet mult be more generous. Buchan. Colds. Colds are well known to be the effe£ls of an- obftru&ed per- fpiration. We {hall not fpend our time in enumerating all the j various fymptoms of colds, as they are pretty generally known, j It may not, however, be amifs to obferve, that almofl: every j cold is a kind of fever, which only differs in degree. No age, fex, or conftitution, is exempted from this difeafe ; • neither is it in the power of any medicine or regimen to prevent^