26S Of 'Puddings, Another way. _ Take a quart of milk, three eggs, a little fait, fome grated ginger, and flour enough to make it as a batter pudding; put it into a fmall tin dripping-pan, of the fize for the purpofe ; put it under beef, mutton, or veal, while roafting. When it is brown, cut it into four or five lengths," and turn it, that the other fide may become brown. White Puddings in Jkins. Boil half a pound of rice in milk till it is foft, having firft wafhed the rice well in warm water. Put it into a fieve to drain, and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds very fine with fbme rofe water. Wadi and dry a pound of currants, cut a pound of hogs’-lard in fmall bits, beat up fix eggs well, half a pound of fugar, a large nutmeg grated, a flick of cinnamon, a little mace, and a little fait. Mix them well together, fill your fkins, and boil them. Farley, 195. To make Black Puddings. Before you kill a hog, get a peck of groats, boil them half an hour in water, then drain them, and put them into a clean tub, or large pan; then kill your hog, and fave two quarts of the blood, and keep ftirring it till the blood is quite cold ; then mix it with your groats, and ftir them well together. Seafon with a large fpoonful of fait, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmeg together, an equal quantity of each ; dry it, beat it well, and mix in. Take a little winter favoury, fweet marjo- ram, and thyme, penny-royal ftripped of the ftalks and chopped yery fine; juft enough to feafon them and give them a flavour, but no more. The next day take the leaf of the hog, and cut into.,dice, fcrape and wadi the the guts very clean, then tie one end, and begin to fill them. Mix in the fat as you fill them; be fure to put in a good deal of fat, fill the fkins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your puddings what length you pleafe ; prick them with a pin, and put them in a kettle of boiling water. Boil them very foftly an hour, then take thecq out, and lay them on clean ftraw. Glajffe, 256. CHAP,