Of Ties, 2,71 little nutmeg fweetened with fugar ; put it over a flow fire, and keep {lining it till it juft boils up ; take off the lid, and pour in the cream. ° Cut the cruft into little three-corner pieces, ftick about the" pie, and fend it to table cold. Glajfe, 230. Farley, 212. An Apple Tart. Take eight or ten large codlings, icald them, and when cold, {kin them ; beat the pulp as fine as you can with a filver fpoon, then mix the yolks of lix eggs, and the whites of four ; beat all together as fine as poftible, put in grated nutmeg, and fugar to your tafte ; melt fome fine frefh buttei, and beat it till it is like a fine thick cream.; then make a fine puff-pafte, and cover a tin patty-pan with it, and pour in the ingredients, but do not cover it with the pafte. Bake it a quarter of an hour, then flip it out of the patty-pan on a difh, and ftrew fome fugar finely beat and lifted all over it. Rajfalel, 145. A Beef-Jleak Tie. Take four or five rump (leaks, beat them very well with a ;pafte pin, feafon them with pepper and fait, lay a good puff-pafte round the difh, and put a little water in the bottom ; then lay the (leaks in, with a lump of butter upon every (leak, and put on the lid. Cut a little pafte in what form you pleafe, and lay it on. A Bride's Tie. Having boiled two calves’ feet, take the meat from the bones, and chop it very fmall; take a pound of beef fuet and a pound of apples, fhred them fmall, wafh and pick one pound of cur- rants, dry them before the fire, (lone and chop a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the lame quantity of mace and nutmeg, two ounces of candied ci- tron, the fame of lemon cut thin, a glafs of brandy, and one of champagne; put them in a china difh, with a rich puff-pafte. over it; roll another lid, and cut it in leaves, (lowers, figures, and put a glafs ring in it. A Calf’s-foot Tie. Put your calf’s feet into a fauce-pan, with three quarts of wa- ter, and three or four blades of mace; let them boil foftly till there is about a pound and a half; then take out the feet, (train the liquor, and make a good cruft. Cover your difh, then pick offtheflefh from the bones, and lay half in the dilh. Strew over it half a pound of currants, clean wafhed and picked, and half a pound of raifins (toned. Then lay on the reft of the meat. l