229 Of Fifh. ' fine, with a ladle of your clear gravy, and a dafli of white wine, pepper, and fait. Boil all together for a few minutes, fqueeze in a lemon or two, and fend it up in a fifh lauceboat. Small prills are good done in this manner, or any other firm- flelhed fifh. Verral, 72. Soals a-la-Frango[fe. Put a quart of water and half a pint of vinegar into an earthen dilh ; (kin and clean a pair of foals, put them into the vinegar and water, let them lie two hours, then take them out and dry them with a cloth ; then put them into a ftew- pan with a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint ot water, a very little thyme, a little fweet marjoram, winter favoury, and an onion ftuck with four cloves. Put in the foals, fprinkle a very little bay-falt, and cover them clofe ; let them fimmer very gently till they are enough. Take them out, lay them in a warm dilh before the fire,; put into the liquor, after it is ffrained, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let it boil till of a proper thicknefs. Lay the foals into a difh, and pour the fauce over them. A fmall turbot, or any flat fifh, may be drefled in the fame manner. Mafon, 225. To Jlew Soals, Having taken the flefh from the bones of your foals, cut each of them into eight pieces. Put into a ftew-pan a quart of boiled gravy, a quarter of a pint of Madeira, or white wine, fome white pepper pounded, grated nutmeg, a piece of lemon-peel ; flew thefe together for near an hour ; add fome cream, a piece of butter mixed with flour. Keep the fauce ftirring till it boils, put in the filh, flew it for a quarter of an hour ; take out the lemon-peel, fqueeze in fome lemon-juice. The filh may be hewed whole in the fame fauce, and, if more convenient, cut the fifh as before directed, and make a little gravy with the bones - and head. To Jlew Soals, Plaice, or Flounders. " Half fry them in three ounces of butter of a fine brown, then take up your fifh, and put to your butter a quart of water, and boil it flowlv a quarter of an hour, with two anchovies and an onion fliced ; then put in your fifh again, with an herring, and flew them gently twenty minutes ; then take out your fifh, and thicken the fauce with butter and flour, and give it a boil; then drain it through a hair fieve over the fifh, and fend them up hot* N.B. It