212 Gravies and Broths. is quite good; then feafon it with fait, and fend to table, with the fowl in the middle. This broth is very good without the fowl. Take out the onion and fweet herbs before you fend it to table. This broth is very good, when made with a fheep’s head inftead of a leg of beef; but you mull chop the head all to pieces. Beef Broth. Break the bone of a leg of beef in two or three places, put it into a gallon of water, two or three blades of mace, a little parfley, and a cruft of bread ; boil the beef very tender, ftrain the broth, and pour it into a tureen ; if agreeable, the meat may be put in with it. Toaft fome bread, cut it into fquares, and put it in a plate. Strong Beef Broth to keep for ufe. Take part of a leg of beef, and the feragendof a neck of mut- ton, break the bones in pieces, and put to it as much water as will cover it, and a little fait ; and when it boils, fkim it clean, and put into it a whole onion ftuck with cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper, and a nutmeg quartered. Let thefe boil till the meat is boiled in pieces, and the ftrength boiled out of it. Strain it out, and keep it for ufe. Glaffe, 206. Me fan, 128. Jelly Broth. Put in your pot or ftew-pan flices of beef, a fillet of veal, a fowl, one or two partridges, according to the quantity required; put it on the fire till it catches a little, and turn the meat now and then to give it a proper colour ; then add fome good clear boiling broth, and fealded roots, as carrots, turnips, parfnips,. parfley-roots, celery, large onions, a few cloves, a fmall bit of nutmeg, and fome whole pepper; boil it upon a (low fire about four or five hours with attention, and add a few cloves of garlic or {ballot, a fmall faggot or bunch of parfley and thyme tied to- gether ; when it is of a good colour, fift it; it ferves for fauces, and to add ftrength to your foups, particularly thofe made of herbs. Clermont, 3. Chicken Broth. Take an old cock, or large fowl, and flay it; pick off all the fat, and break it to pieces with a rolling pin ; put it into two quarts of water, with a good cruft of bread and a blade of mace ; let it boil foftly till it is as good as you would have it; it will take five or fix hours doing. Then pour it off, put a quart j ji ■ more