121 Made Difbes of Pork, &c. cover it again with bacon, put in a quart of broth, flew it over the fire for an hour, and then take it up. Put your pig into a ftew-pan or kettle, pour in a bottle of white wine, cover it clofe, and let it Itew for an hour very foftly. If you would ferve it cold, let it (land till it is cold, then drain it well, and wipe it that it may look white, and lay it in a difh with the head in the middle and the quarters round ; then throw fome green parfley all over. Or any one of the quarters is a pretty little difh, laid in water creffes. If you would have it hot, whilft your pig is Hewing in the wine, take the firfl gravy it was Hewed in, and Hrain it, fkim off all the fat, then take a fweetbread cut into five or fix flic.es, fome truf- fles, morels, and mufhrooms ; Hew all together till they are enough, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, or a piece of butter rolled in flour; and when your pig is enough, take it out and lay it in your difh ; put the wine it was Hewed in to the Iragoo, then pour all over the pig, and garnifh with lemon. Mafon, 185. Glajfe, 66. Farley, 67. A Pig Matelot. Gut and fcald your pig, cut off the head and pettitoes, then cut your pig in four quarters, put them with the head and toes into cold water ; cover the bottom of a flew-pan with flices of bacon, and place over them the faid quarters, with the pettitoes and the head cut in two. Seafon the whole with pepper, fait, thyme, bay-leaf, an onion, and a bottle of white wine ; lay over more flices of bacon, put over it a quart of water, and let it boil. Take two large eels, fkin and gut them, and cut them about five or fix inches long. When yoflr pig is half done, put in your eels, then boil a dozen of large craw-fifh, cut off the claws, and take off the fhells of the tails ; and when the pio- and eels are enough, lay firfl your pig and the pettitoes round u, but do not put in the head (it will be a pretty difh cold); then lay your eels and craw-fifh over them, and take the liquor they were Hewed in; fkim of all the fat, then add to it half a pint of Hron- gravy, thicken with a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and a lpooniul of browning, and pour over it ; then garnifh with '"n ' 1 ’'S, W‘" d° for a fir(l ““*7 01 remove, i^ry the brains and lay round, and all over the difh. \ Collared \