204 Soups without Meat. Rice Soup. Put a pound of rice and a little cinnamon to two quarts of water; cover it clofe, and let it fimmer very foftly till the rice is quite tender. Take out the cinnamon, then fweeten it to your palate ; grate half a nutmeg, and let it ftand till it is cold ; then beat up the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of white wine. Mix them very well, and ftir them into the rice, fet them on a flow fire, and keep ftirring all the time for fear of curdling. When it is of a good thicknefs, and boils, take it up. Keep ftirring it till you put it into your difh. GlaJTe, i c6. Farley, 164. Oyjler Soup. Take a proper quantity of fifh ftock; then take two quarts of oyfters without the beards; beat the hard part in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs ; put them to the fifh ftock, fet it over the fire ; feafon it with pepper, fait, and grated nutmeg. When it boils, put in the eggs ; let it boil till it is of a good thicknefs, and like a fine cream. Mafon, 202. Farley, 166. Another way. Make your ftock of any fort of fifh the place affords; let there be about two quarts; take a pint of oyfters, beard them, put them into a fauce-pan, ftrain the liquor, let them flew two or three minutes in their own liquor ; then take the hard parts of the oyfters, and beat them in a mortar with the yolks of four hard eggs; mix them with fome of the foup; put them with the other part of the oyfters and liquor into a fauce-pan, a little nutmeg, pepper, and fait; ftir them well together, and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Difh it up, and fend it to table. Green Peas Soup. In fhelling your peas, feparate the old ones from the young, and boil the old ones foft enough to ftrain through a cullen- der; then put the liquor, and what you ftrained through, to the young peas, which mu ft be whole, and fome whole pepper, mint, and a little onion fhred fmall ; put them in a large fauce- pan, with near a pound of butter ; as they boil up, fhake in fome flour ; then put in a French roll fried in butter, to the foup; you muft feafon it to your tafte with fait and herbs. When you have done fo, add the young peas to it, which muft be half boiled firft. You may leave out the flour, if you think proper, and inftead of it, put in a little fpinach and cabbage lettuce,