Of Fiji}. *37 and flrew them over with bread-crumbs. Serve with melted butter and lemon-juice, or verjuice ; or a relidiing fauce in a fauce-boat, and garni ill with fried parfiey. Clermont, 349. Smelts in favoury Jelly. Seafon your fmelts with pepper and fait, bake them and drain them. When they are cold, pour the jelly over them ; or break the jelly, and heap over them. To fry Smelts. Draw the guts out at the gills, but leave in the melt or roe ; dry them with a cloth, beat an egg, rub it over them with a fea- ther, and drew crumbs of bread over them. Fry them with hogs’-lard or beef-fuet, and put in your fifh when it is boiling hot. Shake them a little, and fry them till they are of a fine brown. Drain them on a difh, or in a fieve; and when you difh them up, put a bafon, bottom up, in the middle of your difh, and lay the tails of your fifh on it. Farley, 57. To pitchcock Eels. Take a large eel, and fcour it well with fait to clean off all the dime ; then flit it down the back, take out the bone, and cut it in three or four pieces; .take the yolk of an egg and put over the infide, fprinkle crumbs of bread, with fome fweet herbs and parfiey chopped very fine, a little nutmeg grated, and fome pep- per and fait mixed all together; then put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, broil it of a fine light brown, difh it up, and garnilh with raw parfiey and horfe-radifh; or put a boiled eel in the middle, and the pitchcocked round. Garnilk with anchovy fauce, and parfiey and butter in a boat. Glajfe, 184. Another way. Skin your eels, gut them and walh them, then dry them with a cloth; fprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage ; turn them backward and forward, and fkewer them ; rub your gridiron with beef fuet, broil them a good brown, put. them on your difh with good melted butter, and lay round fried parfiey. Raffald, 37. Eel a-la-Nivernois. Skin and trim the eel, cut it in pieces about three inches long, and marinade it about two hours with oil, chopped parfiey, (bal- lots, mufhrooms, pepper and fait; make as much of thq mari- nade flick to it as poffible ; flrew it with crumbs of bread, broil it on a flow fire, balling with the remainder of the marinade; when done of a good colour, ferve with a Nivernois fauce. Dai- ry mple, 279. To