Of Roajling. , 7 Another B 4 off the fore feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, and take out all the entrails ; put the liver, heart, and lights, to the pettitoes, wafh it well out of cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when you road it, put in a little Ihred fage, a tea-fpoonful of black pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread ; fpit your pig, and few it up ; lay it down to a brilk clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire. When your pig is warm, put a lump of hotter in a cloth, and rub your pig often with it while it is roafting. A large one will take an hour and an half. When your pig is a fine brown, and the fteam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite diy, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it; then take a (harp knife, cut off the head, and take off the collar; then take off the ears and jaw-bone, fplit the jaw in two. When you have cut the pig down the back, which muft be done before you draw the fpit out, then lay your pig back to back on your difh, and the jaw on each fide, the ears on each Ihoulder, and the collar at the fhoulder, and pour in your fauce, and ferve it up. Garnifh with a cruft of brown bread grated. Raffed cl, 55. Farley, 34. Another way to roafl a Pig. The pig being prepared, as above, fpit it, and lay it to the fire, which muft be a very good one at each end, or hang a flat iron in the middle of the grate. Before you lay it down to the fire, fhred a little fage very fmall, take a piece of butter as big as a walnut, and a little fait and pepper; put this into the pig, and few it up ftrongly ; then flour it all over, and continue to do fo till the eyes drop out, or the crackling will be hard. Take care to fave all the gravy that comes from it, and for this pur- pofe put a large bafon or pan in the dripping-pan, as foon as the gravy begins to run. Wnen the pig is enough, ftir up the fire brifkly, take a coarfe cloth, with about a quarter of a pound of butter in it, and mb the pig all over till the crackling is quite enfp, when it muft be taken up. Lay it in the difh, and cut oiT the head w’ith a fliarp knife; and, before you draw out the pit, cut the pig in two. Cut off the ears, and lay one at each cn , c wide the under jaw, and difpofeof them in the fame man- ner. rut the gravy you faved into fome melted butter, and boil them. 1 our it into the difh, with the brains bruifed fine, and ' Glaff^’ mixec* together, and ferve it up. Farley, 35.