Made Dijhes of Lamb. 115 pepper and fait, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs ; fluff it with this under where the meat is railed up, and under the kidney. Let it be half roafted, then put it in a large ftew-pan, with a quart of mutton gravy ; cover it, and let it flew very, gently. When it is enough, take it up and keep it hot, fkim oft the fat, and ftrain the gravy ; add to it a glafs of Madeira, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, half a lemon, a little chyan, half a pint of flewed oyfters, with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; pour it over the lamb. Mafon, 173. Two Hind-quarters of Lamb with Spinach Take your two quarters of lamb, trufs your knuckles in nicely, and lay it in foak two or three hours in fome milk, co- riander feed, a little fait, two or three onions, and parlley; put it boiling in but little water, fkim it well, put in fome flour and water well mixed, a lemon or two pared and fliced, a bit of fuet, and a little bunch of onions and parlley ; ftir it well from the bottom, and boil it gently, and thefe ingredients will make it as white as a curd. Prepare your fpinach as for the ham, with this difference —inftead of cullis with that feafoning, put to it about a pint of cream, a bit of butter mixed with flour, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg; ftir it over a flow ftove till it is of a nice con- fidence, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, pour it into the difh, and lay your lamb upon it, after draining it from fat and water, and take off any of your feafonings that may chance to hang to it. , A neck of veal is frequently done in the fame way, taking the chine-bone off, and trimming it neatly. Verral, 53. To force a Hind-quarter of Lamb. Take a hind-quarter and cut off the fliank, raife the thick part of the flefh from the bone with a knife, fluff the place with white force-meat, and fluff it under the kidney; half roaft it, then put it in a tofling-pan, with a quart of mutton gravy ; co- ver it clofe up, and let it flew gently. When it is enough, take it up, and lay it in your difh, fkim the fat off the gravy, and ftrain it; then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, one fpoonful o,£ walnut catchup, two of browning, half a lemon, a little chyan, half a pint of oyfters ; thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour; pour your gravy hot on your lamb, and ferve it up. Raf- fald, 105. I 2 To