292 Of Pickling, N. B. When you fee a fcum over your barberries, put them into frefh fait and water; they require no vinegar, their own iharpnefs being fufficient to keep them. To pickle Codlings. Gather your codlings when they are about the fize of a large French walnut, put a quantity of vine-leaves in the bottom of a brafs pan, then put in your codlings ; cover them well with vine- leaves, and fet them over a very How fire till you can peel the Ikins off; then take them carefully^up in a hair fieve, and peel them with a pen-knife, and put them into the fauce-pan again, with the vine-leaves and water as before; cover them clofe, and fet them over a flow fire till they are a fine green ; then drain them through a hair fieve, and when they are cold, put them in- to diftilled vinegar; pour a little meat-oil on the top, and tie them down with a bladder. Raffald, 345. Indian Pickle, or Peccadillo. Quarter a white cabbage and cauliflower; take alfo cucum- bers, melons, apples, French beans, plums, all or any of thefe ; lay them on a hair fieve, ftrew over a large handful of fait, fet them in the fun for three or four days, or till very dry. Put them into a ftone jar with the followdng pickle:—Put a pound of race ginger into fait and water, the next day ferape and flice it, fait it, and dry it in the fun ; flice, fait, and dry a pound of garlic ; put thefe into a gallon of vinegar, writh 'two ounces of long pepper, half an ounce of turmeric, and four ounces of muf- tard-feed bruifed ; (lop the pickle clofe, then prepare the cab- bage, &c. If the fruit is put in, it mud be green. N. B. The jar need not ever be emptied, but put in the things as they come into feafon, adding frefh vinegar. Majon, 35 To pickle Artichoke-bottoms. Take fomc artichokes, and boil them till you can pull the leaves off, then take off the chokes, and cut them from the (talk; take great care that you do not let the knife touch the top; throw them into fait and w'ater for an hour, then take them out, and lay them on a cloth to drain ; then put them into large wide- mouthed glaffes, put a little mace and diced nutmeg between ; fill them either with diflillcd vinegar, or fugar, vinegar, and fpring-water; cover them wdth mutton fat fried, and tie them down with a bladder and leather. ‘To pickle Najlurtinm Buds. After the bloffoms are gone off, gather the little knobs, and