7 6 Made Dijhes of Veal. juft go in, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, the fame of walnut anti mufh- room catchup, one anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a bundle of fvveet herbs, a ljttle fait and cliyan pepper ; lay a coarfc pafte over it to keep in the fleam, 'and fet it in a very quick oven two, hours and an half. When you take it out, fay your head in a foup difh, ikim the fat clean off the gravy, and ftrain it through a hair fieve into a tofting-pan ; thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour. When it has boiled a few mi- nutes, put in the yolks of fix eggs well beat, and mixed with half a pint of cream ; but do not let it boil, it will curdle the eggs. You muft have ready boiled a few force-meat balls, half an ounce of truffles and morels, it would make the gravy too dark a colour to (lew them in it ; pour your gravy over your head, and garnifh with the truffles, morels, force-meat balls, mufhrooms, and barberries, and ferve it up. This is a hand-, fame top-difh at a fmall expence. Raffald, 88. Calf's Head boiled. Wnfh it very clean, parboil one half, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather, then ftrew over it a feafoning of pepper, fait, thyme, parfley chopped fmall, fhred le- mon-peel, grated bread, and a little nutmeg ; flick bits of butter over it, and lend it to the oven ; boil the other half white in a doth, put them both into a difh ; boil the brains in a bit of doth, with a very little parfley and a leaf or two of fage ; when they are boiled, chop them fmall,-and warm them up in a fauce- pan with a bit of butter and a little pepper and fait; lay the tongue, boiled and peeled, in the middle of a fmall difh, and the brains round it; have in another difh bacon or pickled pork ; greens and carrots in another. O Calf's Head the German way. Take a large calf's head, with great part of the neck cut with-it ; fplit it in half, fcald-it very white, and take out the ■jaw-bone \ take a large ftevv-pan, or fauce-pan, and lay at the bottom fome flices of bacon, then fome thin beef-fleaks, with fflmc pepper and fait; then lay in the head, pour in fome beef broth, a large onion (luck1 with cloves, and a bunch of fvveet lierbs ; cover the ftevv-pan very dole, and fet it over a (love to flew ; tl.cn make a ragoo with a quart of good beef gravy, and 7 rtalfl