2iy Fricajfees. I onion, a little cloves and mace tied in a muflin rag, and flew them gently for ten minutes; then take out the collops, (kirn off the fat^ and take out the fweet herbs and mace ; thicken it with butter rolled in flour, feafon it with fait and a little chyan pep- per, put in a few mufhrooms, truffles, and morels, clean waihed, fome force-meat balls, three yolks of eggs beat up in half a pint of cream, and fome nutmeg grated. Keep ftirring it one way till it is thick and fmooth, and then put in your collops. Give them a tofs up, take them out with a fork, and lay them in a difh ; pour the fauce over them, and garnifh with beet-root and lemon. Mafen, 171. To fricajfee Sweetbreads brozvn. Having fcalded two or three fvveetbreads, flice them, and dip them in the yolk of an egg, mixed with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and a little flour ; fry them a nice brown, thicken a little good gravy with fome flour; boil it well ; add chyan, catchup, or mufhroom-powder, a little juice of lemon flew the fvveetbreads in this a few minutes ; garnifh with lemon. To fricajfee Sweetbreads white. Scald and flice your fweetbreads, put them into a tofling-pan with a pint of veal gravy, a fpoonful of white -wine, the fame of mufhroom catchup, and a little beaten mace ; flew them a quarter of an hour, thicken your gravy with flour and butter a « little before they are enough. When you are going to difh them up, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea-cupful of thick cream and a little grated nutmeg; put it into your tofling-pan, and fhake it well oyer the fire, but do not let it boil; lay your fweetbreads on your difh, and pour your fauce over them. Gar- nifh with pickled red beet-root and kidney beans. Raffald, 99. To fricajfee Eels. Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end, cut them into four or five pieces each, and lay them in fome fpring water for half an hour to crimp them; dry them in a cloth, and tofs them over the fire a few minutes in a bit of frefh butter, a green onion or two, and a little parfley minced ; but take care the colour of neither is altered by burning your butter ; pour in about a pint of white wine, and as much good broth, pepper, fait, and a blade of mace ; flew all together about three quarters of an hour, and thicken it with a bit of butter and flour. Prepare yqur liafon with the yolks of four or five eggs beat fmooth, with two or three fpoonfuls of broth ; grate in a little .nutmeg, a little minced parfley; towards your dinner-time, let your