28 Of Bolling. y°ur ccIery and bo‘l it up, then pour it into your boats. Glajfey 9. To boll a Duck. As foon as you have fealded and drawn your ducks, let them remain for a few minutes in warm water. Then take them out, put them into an earthen pan, and pour a pint of boiling milk over them. Let them lie in it two or three hours, and when you take them out, dredge them well with flour; put them into a copper of cold water, and cover them up. Having boiled (lowly about twenty minutes, take them out, and {mother them with onion-fauce, Farley, 20, Another way to boil a Duck. Pour boiling milk and water over your duck ; let it lie an hour or two ; boil it gently in plenty of water full half an hour.— Onion-fauce. Majon, 271. To boll a Duck, or a Rabbit, with Onions. Boil your duck, or rabbit, in a good deal of water; be fure to fkim your water, for there will always rife a feum, which if it boils down, will difcolour your fowls, &c. They will take about half an hour boiling. For fauce—your onions mull be peeled, and throw them into water as you peel them; then cut them into thin flices, boil them in milk and water, and fkim the liquor. Half an hour will boil them. Throw them into a clean fieve to drain ; chop them, and rub them through a cul- lender ; put them into a faucepan, fhake in a little flour ; put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a good piece of but- ter ; flew them all together over the fire till they are thick and fine ; lay the duck, or rahhit, in the difh, and pour the fauce all over. I f a rabbit, you mult pluck out the jaw-bones, and flick one in each eye, the fmall end inwards. Or you may make this fauce for change:—take one large onion, cut it fmall, half a handful of parfley clean wafhed and picked; chop it fmall, a lettuce cut fmall, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, a good piece of butter rolled in a little flour; add a little juice of lemon, a little pepper and fait. Let them all flew together for half an hour; then add two fpoonfuls ol red wine. This