Macle DiJJoes of Poultry, &c. *59 nutes, and let the pigeons be heated through in it, and let them remain till you put them upon your gridiron. Take a thin dice of ham for each pigeon, and put them with the ham always at I top. I mean, when you turn your pigeons, turn your ham up- on them. For your fauce, take a ladle' of gravy, fome fwcet bafd, a little thyme, pardey, and fhallot, minced very fine, and a few dices of mufhrooms, boiled all together a few minutes ; difh up, your bread downwards, let your ham continue upon them, and pour your fauce over, with the juice of a lemon or orange. Per rat, 138. Pigeons a-la-daube. Put a layer of bacon in a large fauce-pan, then a layer of veal, a layer of coarfe beef, and another little layer of veal, about a pound of beef, and a pound of veal, cut very thin; a piece of carrot, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome black and white pepper, a blade or two of mace, and four or five cloves. Cover the fauce-pan clofe, fet it over a flow fire, draw it till it is brown, to make the gravy of a fine light brown. Then put in a quart of boiling water, and let it dew till the gravy is quite rich and good. Then drain it off, and Ikim off all the fat. In the mean time, duff the bellies of the pigeons with force-meat, made thus:—Take a pound of ve^l, a pound of beef fuet, and beat both fine in a mortar; an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, fome pepper, fait, nutmeg, beaten mace, a little lemon-peel cut fmall, fome parfley cut fmall, and a very little thyme dripped. Mix all together with the yolks of two eggs, fill the pigeons, and flat the bread down. Then flour them, and fry ! them in frefh butter a little brown. Then pour the fat clean !out of the pan, and put the gravy to the pigeons. Cover them clofe, and let them dew a quarter of an hour, or till you think they are quite enough. Then take them up,, lay them in a difh, and pour in your fauce. On each pigeon lay a bay-leaf, and on the leaf a flice of bacon. You may garnifh with a lemon notched ; but it will do without. You may leave out the duf- fing, as it will be rich enough without it. Farley, 125. Pigeons in difguife. Draw and trufs your pigeons, feafon them with pepper and fait; make a nice puffi-pade, and roll each pigeon in a piece of it; tie them in a cloth, and take care the pade does not break ;