Preferving. 329 a drop of water; reduce it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quar- ter of a pound of the marmalade to a pound of fugar properly prepared, and work it well together when it begins to cool. Peaches and ne&arines are done after the fame manner. Cler- mont t 549. To preferve Currants for 'Parts. Put a pound of fugar into a preferving-pan, for every pound and a quarter of currants, with a fufficient quantity of juice of currants to diffolve the fugar. When it boils, fkim it, and put in your currants, and boil them till they are very clear. Put them into a jar, cover them with brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry place. To preferve Rafpberries. If you intend to preferve the red fort of rafpberries, gather them on a dry day, when they are juft turning red, with the ftalks on about an inch long. Lay them fingly on a difh, beat and lift their weight of double-refined fugar, and ftrew it over them. To every quart of rafpberries, take a quart of red currant jelly-juice, and put to it its weight of double-refinpd fugar. Boil and fkim it well, then put in your rafpberries, and give them a fcald. Take them off, and let them ftand for two hours ; then fet them on again, and make them a little hotter; proceed in this manner two or three times till they look clear ; but take care to prevent their boiling, as that will occafion the ftalks to come off. When they are tolerably cool, put them into jelly-glades, with the ftalks downwards. White rafpberries may be preferved in the fame manner, only ufing white currant-jelly inftead of red. Farley, 332. To preferve Grapes. Take fome clofe bunches of red or white grapes, before they are too ripe, and put them into a jar, with a quarter of a pound of fugar-candy, and fill the jar with brandy. Tie it clofe, and fet them in a dry place. Morel cherries may be done in the fame manner. To preferve Golden Pippins. Pare and (lice your pippins, and boil them in fome water to a mafh, run the liquor through a jelly-bag; put two pounds of loaf-fugai into a pan, with alrnoft one pint of water; boil and fkim it; put in twelve pippins, pared and cored with a fcoop, and the peel of an orange cut thin ; let -them boil faft till the fyrup is thick, taking them off when they appear to part, putting- fhem on the fire again when they have flood a little time; the^ Put