216 Fricajfees. add a hafon made of three yolks of eggs, cream, and fome bits of good butter ; and add the fqueeze of a lemon when ready. Clermont, 55. To fricajfee Calves Tongues. Get two tongues, which are enough ‘tor a fmall diflr; boil them till the Hein comes well off the ragged parts, and (lice them very thin, put them into a dew-pan with a ladle or two of broth, and put in a bunch of onions and pjlrtley, a blade of mace, pep- per, and fait. Let all (lew foftly till very tender, and liafon, pour it in when boiling hot, cover it clofe, and let it remain fo till your time of dining; move it upon a dove for a minute or two, fqueeze in a lemon or orange, and difh it up. Vcrral, 122. To fricajfee Neats Tongues. Boil your neats tongues till they are tender, peel them, cut them into dices, and fry them in fredt butter; then pour out the butter, put in as much gravy as you want for fauce, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome pepper and fait, a blade or two of mace, and a glafs of white wine. Having dmmereil all together about "half an hour, take out the tongues, flrain the gravy, and put both that and the tongues into the dew-pan again. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, a little nutmeg grated, and a fmall piece of butter rolled in dour. Shake all together for four or bve minutes, and diih it up. Farley, 85. To fricajfee Calf s Feet. Boil the feet, take out the long bones, fplit them, and put them into a dew-pan, with fome veal gravy, and a very little white wine; beat the yolks of two or three eggs with a little cream, and put to them a little grated nutmeg, fome fait, and a piece of butter; dir it- till it is of a proper thicknefs. To fricajfee Pigeons. Cut your pigeons as you would do chickens for fricadee, fry • , them a light brown, then put them into fome good mutton gra- vy, and dew them near half an hour; then put in half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of browning, and a dice df lemon ; take up your pigeons, and thicken your gravy ; drain it over your pi- geons, and lay round them force-meat balls, and garnifh with pickles. Raff aid, 133. Farley, 84. To fricajfee Lamb Cutlets. Cut a leg of lamb into thin cutlets acrofs the grain, and put them into a dew-pan ; in tire mean time make fome good broth with the bones, fhank, &c. enough to cbver the collops ; put it into the dew-pan, and cover it with a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion.