The Art of Brewing. 36S T.o fop the fret in malt liquors. Take a quart of black cherry brandy, and pour it in at the bung-hole of the hogfhead. and flop it clofe. To recover deadijh beer. When ftrong ale, or beer, grows flat, by the lofs of its fpi- rits, take four or five gallons out of a hogfhead, and boil it with five pounds of honey; fkim it, and, when cold, put it to the reft, and flop it clofe. This will make it pleafant, quick, and flrong. To fine malt liquors. Take a pint of water, and half an ounce of unflacked lime, mix them well together; let it hand three hours, and the lime will fettle to the bottom, and the water be as clear as glafs. Pour the water from the fediment, and put it into your ale or beer. Mix it with half an ounce of ifinglafs, firfl cut fmalt and boiled, and in five hours time, or lefs, the beer in the barrel will fettle and clear. To fine any fort of drink. Take the bed ftnple ifinglafs j cut it fmall with fciflars, and boil one ounce in three quarts of beer ; let it lie all night to cool. Thus diffolved, put it into your hogfhead the next morning, per- fectly cold ; for if it is but as warm as new milk, it will jelly all the drink. The beer, or ale, in a week after, flrould be tapped; or it will be apt to flat ; for this ingredient flats as well as fines. Remember to ftir it well with a wooden paddle, when the ifinglafs is put into the calk. Another way. Boil a pint of wheat in two quarts of water, then fqueeze out the liquid part through a fine linen cloth. Put a pint of it into a kilderkin. It not only fines, but preferves. To cure cloudy beer. . , Rack off your butt, then boil two pounds of new hops in a fufRcient quantity of water, with a due proportion of coarfe fugar, and put all together into the calk when cold. Others have attempted this cure, by only foaking new hops in beer, which, when fqueezed, they put into a calk of cloudy beer. To make Cyder. After all your apples are bruifed, take half your quantity and fqueeze them, and the juice you prefs from them, pour upon the others half bruifed, but not fqueezed, in a tub for the purpofe, having a tap at the bottom. Let the juice remain upon the ° 1 apples