Gravies and Broths. 210 Gravy for a Fowl, when you have neither Meat nor Gravy ready. Boil the neck, liver, and gizzard of the fowl in half a pint of water, with a little piece of bread toafted brown, a little pep- per and fait, and a little bit of thyme. Let them boil till there is a quarter of a pint; then pour in half a glafs of red wine, boil it, and ftrain it, then bruife the liver well in, and drain it again, thicken it with a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and it will be very good. An ox’s kidney makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and boiled with fpices, &c. Beef Gravy. Take fome lean beef, according to the quantity of gravy that is wanted, cut it into pieces ; put it into a ftew-pan, with an onion or two diced, and a little carrot; cover it clofe, fet it over a gentle fire ; pour off the gravy as it draws from it, then let the meat brown, turning it that it may not burn. Pour over it boiling water; add a few cloves, pepper-corns, a bit of lemon- peel, a bunch of fweet herbs. Let this fimmer gently; ftrain it with the gravy that was drawn from the meat. Add a fpoon- ful-of catchup and fome fait. A pound of meat will make a pint of gravy. Mafon, 328. Mutton or Veal Gravy. Take your mutton or veal, cut and hack it very well, fet it on the fire with water, fweet herbs, mace, and pepper. Let it boil till it is as good as you would have it, then ftrain it off. Your great cooks always, if they can, chop a partridge or two and put into gravies. A flrong Fijh Gravy. Take two or three eels, or any other fifh you may have; (kin or fcale them, gut them and wafh them from grit, cur them in little pieces, put them into a ftew-pan, cover them with water, a little cruft of bread toafted brown, a blade or two of mace, and fome whole pepper, a few fweet herbs, and a very little bit of lemon-peel. Let it boil till it is rich and good ; then have ready a piece of butter, according to your gravy. If a pint, as big as a walnut. Melt it in the- fauce-pan, then fliake in a little flour, and tofs it about till it is brown, and then (train in the gravy to it.. Let it boil a few minutes, and it will be good. Glajfe, 127. < • Mutton Broth. Cut a neck of mutton, of about fix pounds, into two, and boil