35s' Vegetables. To drefs Artichokes'. Twift off the ftalks, put them into cold water, and wafli them well; when the water boils, put them In with the top down- wards, that all the dull and land may boil out. An hour and an half, or two hours, will do them. Serve them with melted butter in little cups. To drefs Afparagus. Scrape your afparagus, and tie them in fmall bundles, cut them even, and throw them into water, and have ready a (lew-pan boiling. Put in fome fait, and tie the afparagus into little bun- dles. Let the water keep boiling, and when they are a little tender, take them up- Boiling them too much will make them Jofe their colour and flavour ; lay them on a toafl which has been dipped in the water the afparagus was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter, or fend them to table with butter in a bafon. To drefs Beans. Boil them in plenty of water, with a good quantity of fait in it till they are tender. Boil and chop fome parfley, put it into good melted butter, and fervethem up with boiled bacon, and the butter and parfley in a boat. Never boil them with the bacon. To drefs Broccoli. Carefully (trip off all the little branches till you come to the top one, and then with a knife peel off the hard outfide fkin that is on the ftalks and little branches, and then throw them into water. Have ready a ftew-pan of water, throw in a little fait, and when it boils, put in your broccoli. When the ftalks are tender, it is enough. Put in a piece of toafted bread, foaked in the water the broccoli was boiled in, at the bottom of your difh, and put your broccoli on the top of it, as you do afparagus. Send them up to table laid in bunches, with butter in a boat. To drefs Cabbage, &c. Quarter your cabbage, and boil it in plenty of water with an handful of fait. When it is tender, drain it on a fieve, but ne- ver piefs it Savoys and greens are boiled in the fame manner, but always boil them by themfelves. To drefs Carrots. Carrots require a great deal of boiling; when they are young, wipe them after they are boiled; when old, fcrape them before , you boil them. Slice them into a plate, and pour melted butter - over them. Young fpring carrots will be boiled in halt an hour, large ones in an hour, and old Sandwich carrots will take two hours.