Preferving. 325 clean from the {talks, then bruife them well in a bowl, and to every pound of currants put a pound and an half oi loaf-fugar, finely beaten. Put them into a preferving-pan, boil them half an hour, {kirn and ftir them all the time, and then put them in- to pots. Farley, 318. Green Goofeberry Jam. Take fome large full-grown green goofeberries, but not too ripe; cut them in half, take out the feeds; put them in a pan of cold fpring water, lay fome vine-leaves at the bottom, then fome goofeberries^ then vine-leaves, till all the fruit is in the pan; cover it very clofe, that no (team can evaporate, and fet them on a very flow fire. When they are fcalding hot, take them off; then fet them on again, and then take them off ^ they mult be done fo till they are of a good green; lay them on a fieve to drain, beat them in a marble mortar wdth their weight in fugar; then take a quart of water, and a quart of goofeber- ries, boil them to a math, fqueezethem; to every pint of this liquor, put a pound of fine loaf-fugar, boil and Ikim it; then put in the green goofeberries, let them boil till they are thick and clear, and of a good green. Mafon, 424. To preferve Goofeberries whole without Jloning. Take the largeffc preferving goofeberries, and pick off the black eye, but not the (talk; then fet them over the fire in a pot of water to fcald, cover them very clofe, but not boil or break, and when they are tender, take them up into cold water; then take a pound and an half'of double-refined fugar to a pound of goofe- berries, and clarify the fugar with water, a pint to a pound of fugar, and when your fyrup is cold, put the goofeberries Angle in your preferving pan, put the fyrup to them, and fet them on a gentle fire ; let them boil, but not too faft, leflfthey break ; and when they have boiled, and you perceive that the fugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white paper, and fet them by till the next day. Then take them out of the fy- rup, and boil the fugar till it begins to be ropy; fkim it, and put it to them again, then fet them on a gentle fire, and let them fimmer gently till ^ou perceive the fyrup will rope; then take them off, fet them by till they are cold, cover them with paper ^ then boil fome goofeberries in fair water, and when the liquor is ftrong enough, (train jt out. Let it (land to fettle, and to every pint take a pound of double-refined fugar, then make a jelly of it, put the goofeberries in glaffes when they are cold ; cover them with the jelly the next day, paper them wet, and - Y 3 then