322 Preferving. over them. Leaving the pots open, or negligently tied, is de- ftrudtive to them. Hartfhorn Jelly. Boil half a pound of hartlliorn in three quarts of water over a gentle fire, till it becomes a jelly. If you take out a little to cool, and it hangs on the fpoon, it is enough. Strain it while it is hot, put it in a well-tinned fauce-pan, put to it a pint of Rhenifh wine, and a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar ; beat the whites of four eggs, or more, to a froth, ftir it all together that the whites may mix well with the jelly, and pour it in as if you were cooling it. Let it boil two or three minutes, then put in the juice of three or four lemons; let it boil a minute or two longer. When it is finely curdled, and of a pure white colour, have ready a fwan-fkin jelly-bag over a china bafon, pour in your jelly, and pour back again till it is as clear as rock water ; then fet a very clean china bafon under, have your glafies as clean as poflible, and with a clean fpoon fill your glalfes. Have ready fome thin rind of the lemons, and when you have filled half your glafies, throw your peel into the bafon ; and when the jelly is all run out of the bag, with a clean fpoon fill the reft of the glafies, and they will look of a fine amber colour. In putting in the ingredients, there is no certain rule. You muft put in lemon and fugar to your palate. Moft people love them fweet; and indeed they are good for nothing unlefs they are. GlaJJe, 294. Another way. Put two quarts of water into a clean pan, with half a pound of hartfhorn fhavings, let it fimmer till near one half is re- duced ; ftrain it off, then put in the peel of four oranges and two lemons, pared very thin; boil them five minutes, put to it the juice of the before-mentioned lemons and oranges, with about ten ounces of double-refined fugar ; beat the whites of fix eggs to a froth, mix them carefully with your jelly, that you do not poach the eggs; juft let it boil up, and run it through a jelly- bag till it is clear. Raffald, 210. Calves'-feet Jelly. To two calf’s feet, put three quarts of water, boil it to one quart; when cold, take off the fat, and take the jelly from the fediment; put to it one pint of white wine, half a pound of fu- gar, the juice of three lemons, the peel of one. Whifk the whites of two eggs. Put all into a fauce-pan, boil it a few mi- nutes ; put it through a jelly-bag till it is fine. Mafon, 447. Red