$o8 Of Cakes. of currants, and dry them before the fire; blanch a pound of fwect almonds, and cut them lengthways very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy; firft work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your fugar a quarter of an hour, beat the whites of your eggs to a very itrong froth, mix them with your fugar and butter ; beat your yolks half an hour at lead:, and mix them with your cake; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg; keep beating it till your oven is ready, put in your brandy, and beat your currants and almonds lightly in ; tie three fheets of paper round the bottom of your hoop, to keep it from running out; rub it wrell with butter, put in your cake, and lay your fweetmeats in three lays, with cake betwixt every lay ; af- ter it is rifen and coloured, cover it wuth paper before your oven is flopped up ; if will take three hours baking. Raffald, 265. A pound Cake. Take a pound of butter, beat it in an earthen pan wfith your hand one way, till it is like a fine thick cream; then have ready twelve eggs, but half the whites ; beat them well, and beat them up with the butter, a pound of flour heat in it, a pound of fugar, and a few caraways. Beat it all well together for an hour with your hand, or a great wooden fpoon ; butter a pan and put it in, and then bake it an hour in a quick oven. For change, you may put in a pound of currants, clean wafhed and picked. Glajfe, 281. Mafon, 400. Farley, 292. A good Plum Cake. Take three pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and beat grofsly, about half an ounce of them bitter,' a quarter of a pound of fugar, fe- ven yolks and fix whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, half a pint of good ale yeafl; mix the eggs and the yeafl together, drain them; fet the cream on the fire, melt the ' butter in it; ftir in the almonds and half a pint of fack, part of which fliduld be put to the almonds while beating; mix together the flour, currants, and fttgar, what nutmeg, cloves, and mace are liked ; ftir thefe to the cream, put in the yeaft. Mafon, 400. A common Seed Cake. Take one pound and a quarter of flour, and three quarters of a pound of lump fugar pounded, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of four, one pound of butter beat to a cream with the hand. Mix thefe well; add almoft an ounce of carraway-feeds bruifed; butter the pan or hoop ; lift fugar on the top. A rich