38a '’The Family Vhyjician. When a flone is formed in the bladder, the dodor recommends Alicant foap, oyfler or cocklc-fhell lime-water, to be taken in the following manner: he patient mult fwallow, every day, in any form that is leaf! difagreeable, an ounce of the internal part ol Alicant foap, and drink three or fourEnglilh pints of oyfter or cockle-(hell lime-water. The foap is to be divided into three dofes ; the largelt to be taken failing in the morning early ; the fecond at noon ; and the third at leven in the evening; drinking after each dofe a large draught of the lime water; the remainder of which he may take any time betwixt dinner and fupper, in- ftead of other liquors. 1 he patient fhould begin with a fmaller quantity of the lime- water and foap than that mentioned above; at firit, an Englifh pint of the former, and three drachms of the latter, may be taken daily. This quantity, however, he may increafe by degrees, and ought to perfevere in the ufe of thefe medicines, efpecially ■ if he finds any abatement of his complaints, for fcveral months; nay, if the flone be very large, for years. It may likewife be proper for the patient, if he be fevercly pained, not only to begin with the foap and lime-water in fmall quantities, but to take the fecond or third lime-water inflead of the firft. However, after he has been accuflomed to thefe medicines, he may not only take the firfl water, but, if he finds he can eafily bear it, heighten its diffolving power flill more, by pouring it a fecond time on frefh calcined fhells. The caultic alkali, or foap-lees, is the medicine chiefly in vogue at prefent for the flone. It is of a very acrid nature, and ought therefoie to be given in fome gelatinous or mucilaginous liquor; as veal broth, new milk, linfeed tea, a folution of gum arabic, or a decodion of marfh-mallow roots. The patient mull begin with fmall dofes of the lees, as thirty or forty drops, and increafe by degrees, as far as the flomach will bear it. The only other medicine which I fhall mention is the uva urjt. It has been greatly extolled of late both for the gravel and flone. It feems, however, to be in all refpeds inferior to the foap and lime-water; but it is lefs difagreeable, and has frequently, to my knowledge, relieved gravelly complaints. It is generally taken in powder from half a drachm to a whole drachm, two or three times a day. It may, however, be taken to the quantity of fe- ven or eight drachms a day, with great fafety and good effed. Buchan.