3^6 TBe Family Phyficiatt. Iikewife be proper, during the nfe of it, to take every morning as much of the flower of brimftone and cream of tartar, in a lit- tle treacle or new milk, as will keep the body gently open. He fhould beware of catching cold, Ihould wear more clothes than ufual, and take every thing warm. The fame clothes, the linen excepted, ought to be worn all the time of ufing the ointment; and fuch clothes as have been worn while the patient was under the difeafe, are not to be ufed again, unlefs they have been fu~ migated with brimftone, and thoroughly cleaned, othervvife they will communicate the infe&ion anew*. Pringle. A Diarrhaa, or Loofenefs. A loofenefs, in many cafes, is not to be confidered as a dif- eafe, but rather as a falutary evacuation. It ought, therefore, never to be ftopped, unlefs when it continues too long, or evi- dently weakens the patient. As this, however, fometimes hap- pens, I fhall point out the mofl common caufes of a loofenefs, with the proper method of treatment. When a loofenefs is occafioncd by catching cold, or an ob- ftrudled perforation, the patient ought to keep warm, to drink freely of weak diluting liquors, to bathe his feet and legs fre- quently in lukewarm water, to wear flannel next his fkin, and to take every other method to reftore the perfpiration. In a loofenefs which proceeds from excefs or repletion, a vo- mit is the proper medicine. Vomits not only cleanfe the fto- mach, but promote all the fecretions, which render them of great importance in carrying off a debauch. Half a drachm of ipe- cacuanha, in powder, will anfwer this purpofe very well. A day or two after the vomit, the fame quantity of rhubarb may be taken, and repeated two or three times, if the loofenefs conti- nues. The patient ought to live upon light vegetable food of eafy digeftion, and to drink whey, thin gruel, or barley-water. A loofenefs, occalioned by the obftrudlion of any cuftomary evacuation, generally requires bleeding. If that does not fue- ceed, other evacuations may be fubftituted in the room of thofe which are obftrucied. At the fame time every method is to be taken to reftore the ufual difeharges, as not only the cure of the difeafe, but the patient’s life, may depend on this. * Sir John Pringle obferves, that, though this difeafe may feem trifling, there is no one in the army that is more trouhlefome to cure, as the infection often lurks in clothes, &c. and breaks out a fecond, or even a third time. The fame incpliveniency occurs in private families, unlefs particular regard Is paid to the changing or cleaning oi their clothes, which lali is by no means an eafy ope- ratio*. A peri- j