4®4 *fhe Family Fhyjiclan. it be a difeafe, or the cure of a difeafe. This conduit proceeds Irom fear; but it has often bad, and fometimes fatal confe- quences. When a difeharge of blood from the nofe happens in an in- flammatory difeafe, there is always reafon to believe that it may prove falutary; and therefore it fliould be fuffered to go on, at lead as long as the patient is not weakened by it. When it happens to perfons in perfeft health, who are full of blood, it ought not to be fuddenly flopped. In this cafe, when- ever bleeding at the nofe relieves any bad fymptom, and does not proceed fo far as to endanger the patient’s life, it ought not to be flopped. But when it returns frequently, or continues till the pulfe becomes low, the extremities begin to grow cold, the lips pale, or the patient complains of being fick or faint, it muft im- mediately be flopped. For this purpofe, the patient fliould be fet nearly upright, with his head reclining a little, and his legs immerfed in water, about the warmth of new milk. His hands ought likewife to be put in lukewarm water, and his garters may be tied a little tighter than ufual. Internal medicines can hardly be of ufe here, as they have fel- dom time to operate. It may not, however, be amifs to give the patient half an ounce of Glauber’s fait, and the fame quan- tity of manna, diflolved in four or five ounces of barley-water. This may be taken at a draught, and repeated, if it does not ope- rate, in a few hours. If the genitals be immerfed for fome time in cold water, it will generally flop a bleeding at the nofe. This generally fuc- ceeds. After the bleeding is flopped, the patient ought to be kept as eafy and quiet as poflible. He fliould not pick his nofe, nor take away the tents or clotted blood, till they fall off of their own accord, and fliould not lie with his head low. Buchan, Chambers. Head-Ac h. Sometimes the pain is internal, fometimes external; fome- • times it is an original difeafe, and at other times only fympto- matic. When the head-ach proceeds from a hot biiious habit, the pain is very acute and throbbing, with a confiderable heat of the part affe&ed. When from a cold phlegmatic habit, the pa- tient complains of a dull heavy pain, and has a fenfe of cold- nefs in the part. This kind of head-ach is fometimes attended with a degree of ftupidity or folly.