of Vegetables, Fruits, &c. 255 iet them ftew gently ; cut in a lemon-peel in fmall fhreds. If the fyrup is not rich enough, add more fugar. Mafen, 433, Eggs and Broccoli, Boil your broccoli tender, obferving to fave a large bunch for the middle, and fix or eight little thick fprigs to Hick round. Toaft a bit of bread as large as you would have it for yourdifh or butter plate. Butter fome eggs thus:—take fix eggs, or as many as you have occafion for, beat them well, put them into .a fauce-pan with a good piece of butter, a little fait; keep beat- ing them with a fpoon till they are thick enough, then pour them on the toaft. Set the largeft bunch of broccoli in the mid- dle, and the other little pieces round and about, and garnifh the difh with little fprigs of broccoli. This is a pretty fide-di£h, or a corner-plate. GlajJ'e, 197. To broil Eggs. Cut a toaft; round a quartern loaf, brown it, lay it in your difh, butter it, and very carefully break fix or eight eggs on the toaft. Take a red-hot ihovel and hold it over them. When they are done, fqeeze a Seville orange over them, grate a little nutmeg over it, and ferve it up for a fide-plate. Or you may poach your eggs and lay them on a toaft ; or toaft your bread crifp, and pour a little boiling water over it. Seafon it with a little fait, and then lay your poached eggs upon it. Eggs Dutchefs fafhion. Boil a pint of cream and fugar, a little orange-flower water, and a piece of lemon-peel; poach fix or eight eggs in it ; take out the eggs, reduce the cream for fauce to ferve upon them. Dalrymple, 416. Spinach and Eggs. Pick and wafti your fpinach very clean in feveral waters, put it into a fauce-pan with a little fait; cover it clofe, and fttake the pan often. When it is juft tender, and whilft it is green, throw it into a fieve to drain; lay it in your difh. Have, ready a ftew-pan of water boiling, and break as many eggs into cups as you would poach. Wben the water boils, put in the eggs; have an egg-flice ready to take them out with, lay them on the fpinach, and garnifh the difh with orange cut into quarters, with melted butter in a cup. To force Eggs. Scald two cabbage lettuces with a few mufln;ooms, parfley, forrcl, and chervil; then chop them very fmall, with the yolks oi bard eggs, feafoned with fait and nutmeg; then ftevv them irt butter.