354 To prepare Bacon, Hams, &V. let them lie three weeks or a month in all, rubbing them well; then dry them. The hog may be either fealded or Tinged ; but fingeing is bed. Mafon, 178. Another way. Takeoff all the infide fat ofj a fide of pork, then lay it on a long board, or dreffer, that the blood may run away; rub it well with good fait on both Tides; let it lie thus a day ; then take a pint of bay-falt, and a quarter of a pound of falt-petre; beat them fine; two pounds of coarfe fugar, and a quarter of a peck of common fait. Lay your pork in fomething that will hold the pickle, and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay ' the fkinny fide downwards, and bade it every day with the pickle for a fortnight; then hang it in a wood-fmoke, and afterwards hang it in a dry place, but not hot. Obferve, that all hams and bacon Ihould hang clear from every thing, and not againft a wall. Obferve to wipe off all the old fait before you put it into this pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen, or in a room where the fun comes; it makes them all rufty. GlaJJ'e, 266. Farley, 269. To cure Hams. Rub a ham with a quarter of a pound of falt-petre, let it lie twenty-four hours; boil one quart of ffrong old beer with half a pound of bay-falt, half a pound of brown fugar, and a pound and an half of common fait; pour this on the ham boiling hot, rub and turn it every day for a fortnight, and bade it with the liquor when there is opportunity. This is a very good receipt for cur- ing a ham. Majon, 176. Another zvay. Cut off a fine ham from a fat hind-quarter of pork. Take two ounces of falt-petre, a pound of coarfe fugar, a pound of com- mon fait, and two ounces of fal prunella ; mix all together, and rub it well. Let it lie a month in this pickle, turning and ball- ing it every day, then hang it in wood-i'moke as you do beef, in a dry place, fo as no heat comes to it; and, if you keep them long, hang them a month or two in a damp place, and it will make them cut fine and fiiort. Never lay theie hams in water till you boil them, and then boil them in a copper, if you have one, or the larged pot you have. Put them in the cold water, and let them be four or five hours before they boil. Skim the pot well and often till it boils. If it is a very large one, three hours will boil it; if a fmall one, two hours will do, provided it be