Pancakes and Fritters. 284 Apple Fritters. Pare, core, and flice fome fmall apples ; make a batter with three eggs, a little grated ginger, and almoft a pint of cream ; add a glafs of brandy, a little fait, and flour enough to make it thick ; put in the apples, fry them in lard. Majoti, 382. Hajly Fritters. Heat fome butter in a ftew-pan. Stir a little flour by degrees into half a pint of ale ; put in a few currants, or chopped apples ; beat them up quick, and drop a large fpoonful at a time all over the pan. Take care to prevent their flicking together, turn them with an egg-flice ; and, when they are of a fine brown, lay them on a difh, and throw fome fugar over them. You may cut an orange into quarters for garnilh. Farley, 228. Wtier Fritters. For thefe fritters, the batter muft be very thick. Take five or fix fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait, a quart of water, the yolks and whites of eight eggs well beat, with a little brandy ; (train them through an hair lieve, and mix them with the other ingre- dients. The longer they are made before they are fried, the better. Juft before they are fried, melt half a pound of butter, and beat it well in. The belt thing to fry them in is lard. Mafon, 381. Raff aid, 163. Fine Fritters. Take fome very fine flour, and dry it well before the fire. Mix it with a quart of milk, but be careful not to make it too thick ; put to > fix or eight eggs, a little fait, nutmeg, mace, and a quarter of a pint of fack, or ale, or a glafs of brandy. Beat them well together, then make them pretty thick with pip- pins, and fry them dry. Apple Fraze. Having cut your apples in thin Dices, fry them of a fine light brown ; take them up and lay them to drain, keep them as whole as you can, and either pare them or not, as you think.pro- per ; then make a batter as follows : Take five eggs, leaving out two whites, beat them up with cream and flour, and a little fack ; make it the thicknefs of a pancake-batter, pour in a little melted butter, nutmeg, and a little fugar. Let your batter be hot, and drop in your fritters, and on every one lay a flice of apple, and then more batter on them. Fry them of a fine light brown ; take them up, and ftrew fome double-refined fugar all pver them, Glaffc, 164. Almond