3°9 Of Cakes♦ A rich Seed Cake. Take a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, a pound of loaf-fugar beat and fifted, eight eggs, two ounces of carraway- feeds, one nutmeg grated, and its weight of cinnamon. Firft beat your butter to a cream, then put in your lugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to it the whiles ; beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven ; put it in the hoop and bake it two hours in a quick oven, and let it ftand two hours. It will take two hours beating. Rajfald, 267. A good common Cake. Take fix ounces of rice-flour, and the fame quantity of wheat- flour, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump fugar pounded and fifted, and half an ounce of carraway-feeds ; beat this an hour, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. This cake is well calculated for children and delicate ftomachs, as it is very light, and has no butter in it. Portugal Cakes. Mix into a pound of fine flour a pound of loaf-fugar beat and fifted, then rub it into a pound of ipure fweet butter till it is thick like grated white bread; then put to it two fpoonfuls of rofe- . water, two of fack, ten eggs ; whip them very well with a whifk, then put into it eight ounces of currants, mixed all well toge- ther ; butter the tin pans, fill them but half full, and bake them ; if made without currants, they will keep half a year. Add a pound Of almonds blanched, and beat with rofe-water, as above, and leave out the Hour. Thefe are another fort, and better. Glajfe, 283. A plain Cake. Take two pounds and an half of flour, fifteen eggs, two pounds and an half of butter, beat to a cream ; three quarters of a pound of pounded fugar; bake it in a hot but not a fcorching oven. An Almond Cake. Take two ounces of bitter, and one pound of fweet almonds, blanched and beat, with a little rofe or orange-flower wdter, and the white of one egg; half a pound of fifted loaf-fugar, eight yolks and three whites of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, the rind grated ; bake it either in one large pan, or 1 mall pans. Mafon, 401. ' Spueen Cakes. Take a pound of fugar, beat and lift it, a pound of well-dried X 3 flour,