431 The Family Phyjician. ftringent in weaknefs of the ftomach, and likewife in phthifical coughs, and fpitting of blood. To have any confiderable effedls, however, it mult be taken in larger quantities. Conferve of Sloes. This may be made by boiling the lloes gently in water, be- ing careful to take thefn out before they burlt; afterwards ex- prelling the juice, and beating it up with three times its weight of fine fijgar. In relaxations of the uvula and glands of the throat, this makes an excellent gargle, and may be ufed at difcretion. Preferves are made by fteeping or boiling frefh vegetables firfl in water, and afterwards in fyrup, or a folution of fugar. The fubjedl is either preferved moift in the fyrup, or taken out and dried, that the fugar may candy upon it. The laid is the moll ufual method. I The following is a mbfi excellent Remedy for a Cold. I know not one that is fo efficacious. Take a large tea-cupful of linfeed, two penny worth of flick-, liquorice, and a quarter of a pound of fun raifins. Put thefe into two quarts of foft water, and let it fimmer over a flow fire till it is reduced to one; then add to it a quarter of a pound of brown fugar-candy pounded, a table-fpoonful of old rum, and a table-fpoonful of the bell white wine vinegar, or lemon juice. Note. The rum and vinegar are befl to be added only to the quantity you are going immediately to take ; for, if it is put into the whole, it is apt in a little time to grow flat. Drink half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the cough is troublefome. This receipt generally cures the worfl of colds in two or three days, and, if taken in time, may be faid to be almofl an infallible remedy. It is a moft fovereign and balfamic cordial for the lungs, without the opening qualities which endanger frefh colds in going out. It has been known to cure colds that have been almofl: fettled into confumptions in lefs than three weeks. DECOCTIONS. Decoflion of Logwood. ■ Boil three ounces of the fhavings, or chips, of logwood, in four pints of water, till one half the liquor is wafted. Two or three