The Family Thyjician. 374 J* V When a perfon, for every * ght colcl, {huts himfclf up in a warm room, and drinks great quantities of warm liquor, it may occafion fuch a general relaxation of the folids, as will not eafily be removed. It will therefore be proper, when the difeafe will permit, and the weather is mild, to join to the regimen men- tioned above, gentle exercife ; as walking, riding on horfeback, or in a carriage, &c. An obltinate cold, which no medicine can remove, will yield to gentle exercife, and a proper regimen of the diet. T’Jfots Buchan. Fothergit. The Colie. Colics, which proceed from excefs and indigeftion, generally cure themfelves, by occafioning vomiting or purging. Thefe difeharges are by no means to be fiopped, but promoted by drinking plentifully of warm water, or weak poifet. When their violence is over, the patient may take a dole of rhubarb, or any other gentle purge, to carry off the' dregs of his de- bauch. Colics which are occafioned by wet feet, or catching cold, may generally be removed at the beginning, by bathing the feet aftd legs ip warm water, and drinking fuch warm diluting li- quors as w ill promote the perforation, as weak wine whey, or water gruel with a fmall quantity of fpirits in it. Thefe flatulent colics, which prevail fo much among country people, might generally be prevented, were they careful to change their clothes when they get wet. They ought likewife to take a dram, or to drink fome kind of w arm liquor, after eat- ing any k.nd of green tralh. We do not mean to recommend the practice of dram-drinking, but in this cafe ardent fpirits prove a real medicine, and indeed the beft that can be adm.nif- tered. A glafs of good peppermint water will have nearly the fame effect as a glafs of brandy, and in fome cafes is rather to be preferred. The bilious colic is attended with very acute pains about the region of the navel. The patient complains of great thiril. and is general'y coflive. He vomits a hot, bitter, yellow'-coloured bile, which being difeharged, feems to afford fome relief, but is quickly followed by the fame violent pain as before. As the diltemper advances, the propenfny to vomit fometimes increafcs fo as to become almoft continual, and the proper motion of the inteil r.es is fo far perverted, that there are all the fymptoms of an impending iliac paflion. If the patient be young and flrong, and the pulTc full and frer quent, it will be proper to bleed ; after which clyflers may be ad- miniflered.