The Family Vhyficidn. 385 dropfy, or hypochondriac fymptoms, it generally proves fatal. The black jaundice is more dangerous than the yellow. If the patient be young, of a lull fanguine habit, and com- plains of pain in the right fide, about the region of the liver, bleeding will be neceflary. After this, a vomit muft be admi- nifiered ; and if the. difeafe proves obftinate, it may be repeated once or twice. No medicines'tfere more beneficial in the jaun- dice than vomits, efpecially where it is not attended with inflam- mation. Half a drachm of ipecacuanha, in powder, will be a fufficient dofe for an adult. It may be wrought off with weak camomile tea, or lukewarm water. The body muft likewife be kept open, by taking a fufficient quantity of Oaftile foap. I have known Harrovvgate fulphur-water cure the jaundice of very long ftanding. It fliould be ufed for fome weeks, ,and the patient muft drink and bathe. The foluble tartar is a very proper medicine in the jaundice. A drachm of it may be taken every night and morning in a cupi Sof tea or water-grueL If it does not open the body, the dofe may be increafed. A very obftinate jaundice has been cured by '1 fwallowing raw eggs. Perfons fubjedt to the jaundice, ought to take as much exer- cife as polfible, and to avoid all heating and aftringent aliments. BuchUn* The Itch. The itch is feldom a dangerous difeafe, unlefs where it is rendered fo by neglect, or improper treatment; If it be fuffered to continue too long, it may vitiate the whole mafs of humours ; and if it be fuddenly drove in, without proper evacuations, it may occafion fevers, inflammations of the vifcera, and other in- ternal diforders; The beft medicine yet known for the itch, is fulphur, which ought to be ufed both externally and internally; The parts molt affedted may be rubbed with an ointment made of the flowers of fulphur, two ounces ; crude fal ammoniac, finely powdered, two drachms ; hogs’-lard* or butter, tour ounces ; if a lcruple or half a drachm of the elfence of lemon be added, it will entirely take away the difagreeable fmelh About the bulk of a nutmeg of this may be rubbed upon the extremities, at bed time, twice or thrice a-week. It is feldom neceflary to rub the whole body ; but when it is, it ought not to be dune all at once, as it is dan- gerous to ftop too many pores at the fame time. Before the patient begins to ufe the ointment* he ought, if he be of a full habit, to bleed, or take a purge or two. It will C c likewife