Of Roafling* S Another way. Get the larged and fatted leg of mutton you can, cut out like a haunch of venifon, as foon as it is killed, whild it is warm, it will eat the tendererer; take out the bloody vein, flick it in feveral places in the under fide with a lharp-pointed knife; pour over it a bottle of red wine; turn it in the wine four or five times a day for five days, then dry it exceeding well with a clean cloth; hang it up in the air, with the thick end uppermofl, for five days; dry it night and morning, to keep it from being damp or growing mu Ay. When you roaft it, cover it with pa- per, and pafle it as you do venifon; ferve it up with venifon iauce, It will take four hours roafling. Rajfald, 107. To roajl Veal. As to veal, you mull be careful to roaft it of a fine brown ; if a large joint, a very good fire ; if a fmall joint, a pretty little bride fire; if a fillet or loin, be fure to paper the fat, that you lofe as li'ttle of that as pofiible. Lay it fome diftance from the fire, till it is foaked ; then lay it near the fire. When you lay it down, bade it well with good butter; and when it is near enough, bade it again, and dredge it with a little dour. The bread you mud road with the caul on till it is enough ; and fltewer the fweet-bread on the back fide of the bread. W hen it is nigh enough, take off the caul, bade it, and dredge it with a little dour. Glujfe, 2. Veal takes much the fame time roading as pork \ but be fure to paper the fat of a loin or fillet, and bade your veal with good butter. Glaffe, 13. Veal will take a quarter of an hour to a pound in roading ; paper the fat of the loin and fillet; duff the fillet and fhoulder with the following ingredients-—a quarter of a pound of fuet c opped fine, parfley and fweet herbs chopped, grated bread and lemon peel; pepper, fait, nutmeg, and yolk of egg; butter may fupply the want of fuet; road the bread with the caul on, till it is almod enough, then take it off; dour it, and bade it. Veal requires to be more done than beef. For fauce—falad, pickles, potatoes, broccoli, cucumbers raw or dewed, French beans, peafe, cauliflower, celery raw or dewed, jifafotiy 137. B 3 To