3°4 0/ Tarts, Cujlards, and CheefecakeS. Orange Cujlards. Take lialf the rind of a Seville orange, and boil it tender ; beat it very fine in a mortar, and put to it a fpoonful of brandy, a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well together for ten minutes, and then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream p keep beating them till they are cold, then put them in cuftard cups, and fet them in an earthen difh of hot water. Let them (land till they are fet, then take them out, and flick preferved orange on the top. They may be ferved up either hot or cold. Lemon Cujlards. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, (train them, beat them with a pint of cream ; fweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one; (train it. When cold, ftir it to the cream and eggs ; ftir it till it near boils; or put it into a difh, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown with a falamander. Majon, 398. Rice Cujlards. Put a blade of mace and a quartered nutmeg into a quart of cream ; boil it, then (train it, and add to it fome whole rice boiled, and a little brandy; fweeten it, ftir it over the fire till it thickens, and ferve it up in cups or a difh. It may be eaten cither hot or cold. Fine Cheefecakes. Take a pint of cream, warm it, and put to it five quarts of milk warm from the cow \ then put runnet to it, and give it a ftir about. When it is come, put the curd in a.linen bag or cloth, let it drain well away from the whey, but do not fqueeze it much ; then put it in a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter ; put to your curd half a pound of fweet almonds blanched, and beat exceedingly fine, and half a pound of mackaroons beat very fine. If you have no mackaroons, get Naples’ bifcuits; then add to it the yolks of nine eggs beaten, a whole nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums diflolved in rofe or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine fugar; mix all well together, then melt a pound and a quarter of butter, and ftir it well in it; then make your puff-pafte thus:—take a pound of fine flour, wet it with cold water, roll it out, put into it by degrees a pound of frefh butter, and (hake a little flour over each coat as you roll it. Make it juft as you ufe it. You need not put in the perfumed plums, if you diflike them ; and, for variety, when you make them of mackaroons, put in as