Of Boiling* 37 hang it up by the legs for four or five days at lead ; when you have plucked it, draw it at the rump ; if you can take the breaft- bone out nicely, it will look much better. Cut off the legs, put the end of the. thighs into the body of the turkey, lkewer them down, and tie them with a firing; cut off the head and neck, then, grate a penny loaf, chop a fcore or more of oylters fine, flired a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your palate. Mix it up into a light forced-meat, with a quarter of a pound of but- ter, a fpoonful or two of cream, and three eggs ; (tuff the craw with it, and make the reft into balls, and boil them. Sew up the turkey, dredge it well with flour, put it into a kettle of cold water, cover it, and fet it over the fire. When the fbum begins to rife, take it off, p1 on your cover, and let it boil very flowly for half an hour ; then take off your kettle, and keep it clofe covered. If it be of a middle fize, let it ftand half an hour in the hot water, the ftearn being kept in will flew it enough, make it rife, keep the {kin whole, tender, and very white. When you difh it up, pour over it a little of your oyfter-fauce, lay your balls round it, and ferve it up with the reft of your fauce in a boat. Garnifh with lemon and barberries.—N. B. Obferve to fet on your tur- key ;n time, that it may ftew as above : it is the beft way I ever found to boil one to perfection. When you are going to difh it up, fet it over the fire to make it quite hot. Rajfald, 60. Mr. Farley, in his London Art of Cookery, has the fame re- ceipt as the above, page 19, excepting a trifling alteration in the language. Sauce for a boiled Turkey. The beft fauce for a boiled turkey, is good ovfter and celery fauce. ( Make oyfter-fauce thus :—take a pint of oyfters, and fet them off; ftrain the liquor from them, and put them in cold water, and wafli and beard them ; put them into your liquor in a ftew-pan, with a blade of mace, and fom'e ,butter rolled in flour, and a quarter of a lemon ; boil them up, rhen put in half a pint of cream, and boil it all together gently ; take the lemon and mace out, fqueeze the juice of the lemon into the fauce, then m6 Vn y°Ur b?ats or bafons- Make celery-fauce thustake the white part of the celery, cut it about one inch long ; boil it in fome water till it is tender, then take half a pint of veal broth, a blade of mace, and thicken it with a little flour and butter : put in hall a pint of cream, boil them up gently together; put