Made Wines, $5* i ftop it clofe for three months, and draw it off in another veffel* When it is fine, bottle it off. Glaffe, 305. Goofeberry Wine. Put three pounds of lump fugar to a gallon of water, boil it a quarter of an hour, and fkim it very well ; then let it ftand till it it almoft cold, and take four quarts of full-ripe goofeberries, bruife them in a marble mortar, and put them in your veffel; then pour in the liquor, and let it ftand two days, and ftir it every four hours ; fteep half an ounce of ifing-glafs two days in a pint of brandy, (train the wine through a flannel bag into the cafk, then beat the ifing-glafs in a marble mortar with five whites of eggs ; then whifk them together half an hour, and put it in the wine, and beat them all together; clofe up your calk, and put clay over it; let it ftand fix months, then bottle it off for ufe ; put in each bottle a lump of fugar, and two raifins of the fun. This is a very rich wine, and when it has been kept in bottles two or three years, will drink like champaigne. Raff aidy 321. Cherry Wine. Take fifty pounds of black cherries, picked clean from the (talks, let the (tones remain, bruife them well with the hands; then take half a bulhel of very ripe currants, and get as much juice from them as poflible, and alfo four quarts of rafpberries fqueezed in the fame manner. To this quantity of fruit allow forty pounds of fugar ; diffolve it in foft water, and when the fugar is melted, put it into a veffel with the bruifed cherries, and the juice of the currants and rafpberries ; then fill the veffel with foft water, only leaving room for the working; and, when all is in the veffel, ftir it well together with a (tick. It muft not be bunged up in lefs than three weeks ; it may be bottled in five months. Mafon, 466. Cowjlip Wine. Take two pounds and an half of powder fugar, and two gallons of water; boil them half an hour, taking care to fkim it as the fcum rifes; then pour it into a tub to cool, adding to it the rind of two lemons. When cold, put four quarts of the flowers of cowflips to the liquor, and with it the juice of two lemons. Let it ftand in the tub two days, obferving to ftir it every two or three hours ; then put it in the barrel, and after it has flood about three weeks, or a month, bottle it, not forgetting'to put a lump of fu°;ar into each bottle. 1 s Mead.