Of Sauces• 243 leaves, and put them into a plate with their juice ; ftrew on fome pepper and fait, ftir it all together, and ferve it cold. White Sauce for Fifh. Having wafhed two anchovies, put them into a fauce-pan, with one glafs of white wine, and two of water, half a nutmeg, and a little lemon-peel. When it has boiled five or fix minutes, ftrain it through a fieve. Add to it a fpoonful of white wine vinegar, thicken it a little, then put in near a pound of butter rolled in flour. Boil it well, and pour it hot upon your fifh. Rajfald, 27. White Sauce for Fowls or Chickens. Take a little ftrong veal gravy, with a little white pepper, mace, and fait, boiled in it. Have it clear from any fkin or fat. As much cream, with a little flour mixed in the cream, a little mountain wine to your liking. Boil it up gently for jive minutes, then ftrain it over your chickens or fowls, or in boats. A white Sauce for Veal. To a pint of good veal gravy, put a fpoonful of lemon-pickle, half an anchovy, a tea-fpoonful of mulhroom powder, or a few pickled mufhrooms ; give it a gentle boil ; then put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs beat fine ; fhake it over the fire after the eggs and cream are in, but do not let it-boil, as that would curdle the cream. Sauce Ravigotte d-la-Bourgeoife. Provide fome fage, parlley, a little mint, thyme, and bafil; tre them in a bunch, and put them into a fauce-pan of boil- ing water ; let them boil a minute, then take them out, and fqueeze the water from them ; chop them very fine, and add to them a clove of garlick, and two large onions minced fine. Put them into a ftew-pan with half a pint of broth, fome pepper, and a little fait; boil them up, and put in a fpoonful of vine- gar. Mafon, 324. Sauce a-la-Nivernois. Put in a fmall ftew-pan two dices of ham, a clove of garlick, a laurel-leaf, diced onions and roots; let it catch, then add a little broth, two fpoonfuls of cullis, a fpoonful of taragon vine- gar ; ftew it an hour on a flow fire, then fift it through a fieve, and ferve it for a relifhing fauce. Clermont, 31. Sauce for Pheafants or Partridges. Thefe birds are ufually ferved up with gravy-fauce in thedifh, and bread-fauce in a boat. R 2 Sauce