4xo The Family Phyjician. people imagine the neck was broken: it is, however, for the molt part only partially diflocated, and may be reduced by al- snoft any perfon of resolution. A complete diflocation of the neck is inftantaneous death. When the neck is diflocated, the patient is deprived of all fenfe and motion, his countenance is bloated, and his chin lies upon his bread. To reduce this diflocation, the patient fhould immediately be laid upon his back on the ground, and the operator muft place himfelf behind him fo as to be able to lay hold of his head with both hands, while he makes a reliflance by placing his knees againft the patient’s fhoulders. In this porture he muft pull the head with force, gently twifting it at the fame time, if the face be turned to one fide, till he perceives that the joint is replaced, which may be known from the noife which the bones generally make when going in, the patient’s beginning to breathe, and the head continuing in its natural porture. This is one of thofe operations which it is more eafy to perform than deferibe. It has been happily performed even by women, and often by men of no medical education. After the neck is reduced, the patient ought to be bled, and fliould be differed to reft for foms days, till the parts recover their proper tone. Rickets. This difeafe generally attacks children between the age of nine months and two years. It prevails mold in towns where the in- habitants follow fedentary employments, negle&ing either to take proper exercife themfelves, or to give it to their children. One caufe of the rickets is difeafed parents. Mothers of a weak relaxed habit, who negleft exercife, and live upon weak watery diet. Accordingly we find, that the children of fuch wo- men generally die of the rickets, the fcrophula, eonfumptions, or fuch like difeafes. Children begotten by men in the decline of life, who are fubjeft to the gout, the gravel, or other chronic difeafes, are likewife very liable to the rickets. Any diforder that weakens the conftitution, as the fmall-pox, mealies, teething, &c. difpofes them to this difeafe. It may likewife be occafioned by improper diet, as food that is either too weak and watery. Bad nurfing is the chief caufe of this difeafe. But children fuffer oftner by want of care in nurfes than want ol food. Al- lowing an infant to lie or fit too much, or not keeping it tho- roughly clean in its clothes, has the moll pernicious effects. The want of free air is likewife very hurtful to children in tins