1 v I 160 Made Difhes of Poultry, &c* boil them in a great deal- of water. They will take an hour and an half boiling. Take, great care when they are untied they do not bre^k. Put them into a difh, and pour a little good gravy to them, Pigeons a-la-charmante. Scald five or fix fmall pigeons, and braze them with a few flices of lard and peeled lemon, pepper, fait, a faggot of fweet •' herbs, and broth. Lard three or four fweetbreads as for frican- deaus, and put thefe lad into a dew-pan by themfelves, with fomc broth, a few thin llices of veal fillet, a faggot, a few chi- : bols, two cloves, and a little bal'd. Braze flowly, and when \ done, fift and fkim the braze, and reduce it to a glaze, to rub over the larded lide of the fweet-breads1; add a little confommee, to gather the remainder of the glaze which may ftick to the bot- tom of the pan; fift it again through a fieve, and add a little . more pepper and fait (if necelfary), and a good fqueeze of lemon. , Intermix the pigeons and fweet-breads upon the table-dilli, and pour the fauce over the former, but not over the latter, as it 4 would fpoil the colour of the glaze. Pigeons in fricandeau. Pick, draw, and wafh your pigeons very clean, fluff the craws, and lard them down the lides of the bread, fry them in butter a fine brown, and then put them into a tolftng-pan with a quart of gravy. Stew them till they are tender, then take off the fat, and put in a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, a large fpoonful of browning, the faipe of walnut catchup, a little chyan, and fait. Thicken your gravy, and add half an ounce of morels, and four yolks of hard eggs. Lay the pigeons in your difh, and put the morels and eggs round them, and drain your fauce over them. Garnifh with barberries and lemon-peel, and ferve it up. Raffald, 132. Farley, 125. Pigeons au Soleil. Make a force-meat with half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of mutton, and two ounces of beef. Beat them in a mor- tar, with fome pepper, fait, and mace, till they are a paffe. Then take the yolks of three or four eggs, beat them up well, and put them into a plate. Mix alfo a quarter of a pound of grated ,