Soups without Meat. 207 fet them on the fire till the butter is melted ; feafon it with pep- per and fait, then beat the yolks of three eggs, put them in, ftir them all the time for fear of curdling; grate a little nutmeg. When it is thick and fine, fill the rolls, pour the foup into the tureen, and fet the rolls in the middle. Barley Soup. To a gallon of water put half a pound of barley, a blade or two of mace, a large cruft of bread, and a little lemon-peel. Let it boil till it comes to two quarts; then add half a pint of white wine, and fweeten to your palate. Scate Soup. Having fkinned and walhed two pounds of fcate, boil it in fix quarts of water. When it is boiled, take the meat from the bones; take two pounds of flounders, wafh them clean, put them into the water the fcate was boiled in, with fome lemon-peel, a bunch of fweet herbs, a few blades of mace, fome horfe-radifh, the cruft of a penny loaf, a little parfley, and the bones of the fcate ; cover it very clofe, and let it fimmer till it is reduced to two quarts; then ftrain it off, and put to it an ounce of vermi- celli ; fet it on the fire, and let it boil very foftly. Take one of the hollow rolls which are made for oyfters, and fry it in butter. Take the meat of the fcate, pull it into little flices, put it into a fauce-pan with two or three fpoonfuls of the foup ; {hake into it a little flour and a piece of butter, fome pepper and fait • {hake them together in a fauce-pan till it is thick, then fill the roll with it; pour the foup into the tureen, put the roll into it, and fend it to table. Majon 201. Mr. Barley, page 168, has the fame receipt in fubftance, though expreffed in different words. Mrs. GlaJJe, page 155, has alfo the fame receipt; to whom Mrs. Majon and Mr. Farley appear to be indebted. Egg Soup. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a difh, with a piece of butter as big as a hen’s egg ; take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a fpoon in the other. Pour in about a quart, by de- grees, then keep ftirring it well all the time, till the eggs are well mixed, and the butter melted. Then pour it into a fauce- pan, and keep ftirring it all the time till it begins to fimmer. Take it off the fire, and pour it between two velfels, out of one into another, till it is quite fmooth, and has a great froth. Set it on the fire again, keep ftirring it till it is quite hot, then pour it into your foup-difh, and fend it hot to table. Farley, 16$. Milk