u C 40 ) * CHAP. III. MADE DISHES OF BEEF. AS this is one of the mod important chapters in the book, it may not be improper to give the young cook fome general hints. It is an important point to take care that all the copper veflels be well tinned, and kept perfectly clean from any foulneli or grittinefs. Before you put eggs or cream into your white fauce, have all your ingredients well boiled, and the whole of a proper thicknefs; for neither eggs nor cream will contribute much to thicken it. After you have put them in, do not {fir them with a fpoon, nor fet your pan on the fire, for fear it fhould gather at the bottom, and be lumpy ; but hold your pan at a proper height from the fire, and keep fhaking it round one way, which will keep the fauce from curdling ; and be particu- larly cautious that you do not fuffer it to boil. Remember to take out your collops, meat, or whatever you are drefiing, with a fifh-flice, and ftrain your fauce upon it, which will prevent fmall bits of meat mixing with your fauce, and thereby have it clear and fine. In browning difhes, be particularly cautious that no fat floats on the top of the gravy, which will be the cafe if you do not properly Ikim it. It fhould be of a fine brown, without any one predominant tafte, which mud depend on the judicious proportion in the mixture of your various articles of in- gredients. If you make ufe of wine, or anchovy, take off its rawnefs by putting it in fome time before your difh is ready ; for nothing injures the reputation of a made-difh fo much as raw wine, or frefh anchovy. Be fure to put your fried force-meat balls to drain on a fieve, that the fat may run from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, as that will foften them, and give them a greafv appearance. To put them in after the meat is diflied up, is indifputably the beft method. In almoft every made-difh, you may ufe force-meat balls, morels, truffles, arti- choke-bottoms, and pickled mufhrooms ; and in feveral made- difhes, a roll of force meat may fupply the place of balls ; and where it can be ufed with propriety, it is to be preferred. Browning