I3 & Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. was boiled in, to keep it hot; put feven or eight heads of celery, that are waffled and cleaned very well, into the water that the turkey was boiled in, till they are tender; then take them up, and put in your turkey with the bread down, and dew it a quarter of an hour ; then take it up, and thicken your fauce with half a pint of butter and flour to make it pretty thick, and a quarter of a pint of rich cream, then put in your celery ; pour the fauce and celery hot upon the turkey’s bread, and fervc it up. It is a proper difh for dinner or fupper. Rnjfald, 120. 'Turkey a-Vecarlate.—Turkey of a fcarlet colour. Take up the {kin of a fmall turkey from the flefli without breaking it, and duff as much craw-fifh and butter under it as poflible; dud'the infide with a ragoo made of the liver, mufh- rooms, pepper, and fait, prepared in a good cullis fliort fauce; few it up, and wrap it with flices of lard and pepper. Serve with a craw-fifh cullis. Clermont, 230. Turkey zv'ith Onions and pickled Pork. Scald two dozen of fmall white onions, and boil them in broth, with half a pound of pickled pork cut into thin flices, a faggot of parfley, green fhallots, thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, whole pepper, and fait. When done, drain them all, duff the turkey therewith, and wrap it in flices of lard and paper to road. Make a fauce with a bit of butter, a flice of ham, two fhallots, and a few mufhrooms; foak it awhile, then add two fpoonfuls of broth, and as much cullis; fimmer it about an hour, fkim it, and fift it. When ready, add a fmall fpoonful of mudard, a little pepper, and fait. Clermont, 227. To roajl a Turkey the genteel way. Cut your turkey down the back, and bone it with a fltarp pen-knife ; then make your force-meat thus :—Take a large fowl, or a pound of veal, as much grated bread, half a pound of diet, cut and beat very fine, a little beaten mace, two cloves, half a nutmeg grated, about a large tea-fpoonful of lemon-peel, and the yolks of two eggs; mix all together with a little pepper and fait, fill up the places where the bones came out, and fill the bodv, that it may look jud as it did before; few up the back, and roait it. You may have oyflcr fauce, celery-fauce, or jud as