The Family Phyfician. to render liquors heady. Suffice it to fay, that the practice is very common, and that all the ingredients ufed for this purpofe are of a narcotic or ftupefadtive nature. But as all opiates are of a poifonous quality, it is eafy to fee what mull be the confe- quences of their general ufe. Though they do not kill fuddenly, yet they hurt the nerves, relax and weaken the ftomach, and fpoil the digeftion. I would recommend it to families, not only to prepare their own liquors, but likewife their bread. Bread is fo neceffiary a part of diet, that too much care cannot be bellowed in order to have it found and wbolefome. For the purpofe, it is not only neceflary that it be made of good grain, but likewife properly prepared, and kept free from all unwholefome ingredients. This, however, we have reafon to believe, is not always the cafe with bread prepared by thofe who make a trade of vending it. Their objedt is rather to pleafe the eye, than confult the health. Perfons whofe folids are weak and relaxed, ought to avoid all vifeid food, or fuch things as are hard of digeltion. Their diet, however, ought to be nourilhing; and tlpey fhould take plenty of exercife in the open air. Such as abound with blood, Ihould be fparing in the ufe of every thing that is highly nourilhing, as fat meat, rich wines, ftrong ale, and the like. Their food Ihould confilt mollly of bread and other vegetable fubllantives ; and their drink ought to be water, whey, or final! beer. Fat people Ihould not eat freely of oily, nourilhing diet. They ought frequently to eat radilh, garlic, fpices, or fuch things as are heating, and promote perfpiration and. urine. Their drink fhould be water, coffee, tea, or the like ; and they ought to take much exercife and little deep. Thofe who are too lean mull follow an oppoftte courfe. Such as are troubled with acidities, or whofe food is apt to four upon the ftomach, fhould live much on flefh meats; and thofe who are afflidted with hot, alkaline erudlations, ought to- ufe a diet confiding chiefly of acid vegetables. People who are affedted with the gout, low fpirits, hypo- chondriac, or hyfteric diforders, ought to avoid all flatulent food, every thing that is vifeid or hard of digeftion, all falted or fmoke- dried provilions, and whatever is auftere, acid, or apt to four on the ftomach. Their food Ihould be light, fpare, cool, and of an opening nature. It is not only neceffary for health that out diet be wholefome, but