Made Difhes of Beef, 54 put half a pint of gravy into a tofs-pan, an onion chopped fine, two fpoonfuls of catchup, fome pepper and fait, fix fmall pickled cucumbers cut in thin fiices, and the gravy that comes from the beei; a little butter rolled in flour \ put the meat in, and tofs it up for five minutes, put it on the firloin, and then put the fkin over and fend it to table. Garnifli with horfe-radifh. You may do the inlide. inftead of the outfide if you pleafe. GlaJJ'e, 34. Mafon, 126. Farley, 95. To roajl Ox Palates, Having boiled your palates tender, blanch them, cut them in-* to dices about two inches long, lard half with bacon ; then have ready two or three pigeons, and two or three chicken-peepers, draw them, trufs them, and fill them with force-meat; let half of them be nicely larded, fpit them on a bird-fpit, thus :—a bird, a palate, a fage-leaf, and a piece of bacon $ and fo on, a bird, a palate, a fage-leaf, and a piece of bacon. Take cocks’-combs and lambs’-ftones, parboiled and blanched, lard them with little bits of bacon, large oyrters parboiled, and each one larded with one piece of bacon ; put thefe on a fkewer, with a little piece of bacon and a fage-leaf between them ; tie them on a fpit and roaft them ; then beat up the yolks of three eggs, fome nutmeg, a little fait, and crumbs of bread: bafte them with thefe all the time they are roafting, and have ready two fweetbreads, each cut in two, fome artichoke bottoms cut into four and fried, and then rub the difh with fhallots: lay the birds in the middle, piled upon one another, and lay the other things all feparate by them- felves round about in the difh, Have ready for fauce a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of red wine, an anchovy, the oyfier liquor, a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil all thefe to- gether, and pour into the dilh, with a little juice of lemon. Gar- nifh your difh with lemon. Glafj'e, 44. Farley, 37, from GlaJJ'e, Mafon, 134. T0 fmv Ox Palates, Wall) four ox-palates in feveral waters, and then lay them in warm water for half an hour, then wafh them out and put them in a pot, and tie them down with ftrong paper, and fend them to the oven with as much water as will cover them, or boil them till tender; then flcin them and cut them in pieces half an inch broad, and three inches long, and put them in a tofling-pan with a pint