Made Dijhes of Beef. 44 Beef gill of capers ; put them in a pint of good gravy, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, and feafon it with pepper and fait; boil it up for ten minutes, and then put it over the beef; or you may put the beef in a difh, and put greens and carrots round it. Glajfe, 33* Farley, 93. Beef A-la~royal. Bone a rump, firloin, or brifleet, and cut fonie holes in it at a little diftance from each other ; fill the holes, one with chop- ped oylters, another with fat bacon, and the other with chopped parfley ; dip each of thefe, before the beef is fluffed, into a i'ea- foning made with fait, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, fvveet marjoram, and thyme ; put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when it has done hiding, put in the beef, make it of a fine brown, then put it intofome broth made of the bones, with a bay-leaf, a pint of red wine, two anchovies, and a quarter of a pint of fmall beer ; cover it clofe, and let it flew till it is tender; then take out the beef, fkim off the fat, and ftrain the gravy ; add two ox-palates flewed tender and cut into pieces, fome pickled gerkins, truffles, morels, and a little muih- room powder ; let all thefe boil together. Thicken the fauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the fauce over it, and ferve it up, MafonK 124. Beef Olives. Cut fleaks from the rump, or infide of the firloin, half an inch thick, about fix inches long, and four or five broad, beat them a little, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg ; ftrew on bread crumbs, parfley chopped, lemon-peel fhred, pepper and fait, chopped fuet or marrow, and grated nutmeg; roll them tip tight, tkewer them, and fry or brown them in a Dutch oven ; flew them in fome beef broth or gravy until tender, thicken the gravv with a little flour ; then add a little catchup, and a little lemon juice. To enrich them, add pickled mufhrooms, hard yolks of eggs, and force-meat balls. Mafon, 128. Mrs. Raff aid has given the fame receipt in other words, page 117.