Made Dijhes of Pork, &c. 120 your dripping-pan, put to the fauce one anchovy chopped fmalj, a bundle of fweet herbs, and half a lemon. Boil it a few mi- nutes, then draw your pig, put a fmall lemon or apple in the pig s mouth, and a leaf on each iide ; ftrain your fauce, and pour , it on them boiling hot ; lay barberries and dices of lemon round N’it, and fend it up whole to table. It is a grand bottom difh. It .•frill take four hours, roafting. Raffald, m. Farley, with the alteration of a few words, 114. Mrs. GlaJJe, page 67, has the above receipt, with only this I difference—<Hhc recommends two bottles of port and one of \ Madeira for balling. Mrs. Raffald. three bottles of port, and no Madeira. Another way. Take a pig nine or ten weeks old, fealded, See. as formatting ; make a Huffing with a few* fage leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, walhed, and cut very fmall ; put them into f a mortar with fome crumbs of bread, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little chyan pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine ; beat them to pafte, and few it up in the pig, lay it down at a great diftance to a large brilk fire, finge it well; put into the dripping-pan two bottles of Madeira wine, and bade it well all the time it is roafting. When it is half roafted, put into the dripping pan two French rolls. If there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan, add more. When the pig is near enough, take the rolls and fauce, and put them into a lauce-pan ; add to them one anchovy cut fmall, a bunch of fweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon. Take up the pig, put an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each fide; then ftrain the fauce over it. Some barbecue a pig of fix or feven years old, and flick blanched almonds all over it; but balte it with Madeira in the fame manner. Mafon, 185. \ ffo drefs a Pig au Pere Duillet. Cut off the head, and divide it into quarters; lard them with bacon, feafon them with rnace, cloves, pepper, nutmeg, and fait. Lay a layer of fat bacon at the bottom of a kettle, lay the head in the middle, and the quarters round ; then put in a bay-leaf, an onion lliced, lemon, carrots, parfnips, parfiey, and chives; cover