324 Preferring. whites of fix eggs beaten to a froth ; boil it a little, and rtrafn it through a flanhel bag; then run the jelly into little high glaffes, run every colour as thick as your finger, one colour mud be thoroughly cold before you put another on, and that you put on mult be but blood warm, for fear it mix together. You mull colour red with cochineal, green with fpinach, yellow with faf- fron, blue with fyrup of violets, white with thick cream, and fometimes the jelly by itfelf. You may add orange-flower wa- ter, or wine and fugar, and lemon, if you p^pfd; but this is all fancy. GlaJJ'e, 295. Farley, 322. Cherry Jam. Stone fome cherries, boil them well, and break them; take them off the fire, let the juice run from them ; to three pounds of cherries, boil together half a pint of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf-fugar ; put in the cherries as they boil, fift in three quarters of a pound of fugar; boil the cherries very fall for more than half an hour. When cold, put on brandy paper. Maforiy 420. Red Rafpherry Jam. Gather your rafpberries when they are ripe and dry, pick them very carefully from the ftalks and dead ones, crufh them in a bowl with a filver or wooden fpoon, (pewter is apt to turn them a purple colour); as foon as you have crulhed them, ftrew in their own weight of loaf-fugar, and half their weight of cur- rant-juice, baked and drained as for jelly; then fet them over a clear flow fire, boil them half an hour, fkim them well, and keep ftirring them at the time, then put them into pots or glaffes, with brandy-papers over them, and keep them for ufe. N. B. As foon as you have got your berries, ftrew in your fugar ; do not let them ftand long before you boil them, it will preferve their flavour. Raffald, 212. Apricot Jam. Provide fome fine rich apricots, cut them in thin pieces, and infufe them in an earthen pot till they are tender and dry ; put a pound of double-refined fugar, and three fpoonfuls of water to every pound and an half of apricots. Then boil your fugar to a candy height, and put it upon your apricots. Set them over a flow fire, and ftir them till they appear clear'and thick ; but they mud only fimmer, not boil; then put them in your glaffes. Black Currant Jam. Gather your currants when they arc full ripe, and pick them clean