jMade Difhes of Veal. 79 To* hafh a Calf’s Head brown. Half the head only fliould be hafhed, as a whole one makes too large a difh ; parboil it ; when cold, cut it into thin dices, and the tongue \ flour it pretty well, and put it into a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, a quart or more, a glafs of Madeira, an anchovy wiped and boned, a little pounded cloves, chyan, a piece of lemon-peel ; let thefe Hew gently three quarters of an hour, then add fome catchup, a few truffles and morels, firfl: wafhed ; pickled or frefh mufhrooms ; if frefh, a little juice of lemon ; flew thefe together a few minutes; add force-meat balls fried, and hard yolks of eggs. Dip the brains in hot water, fkim them, beat them fine, and mix. them with a little grated lemon-peel, parfley chopped, and favoury herbs, favoury fpice, chyan, fait, bread-crumbs, and yolk of egg ; fry thefe in fmall cakes ; garnifli the hafh with them, oyfters fried, and fliced lemon. If for a large company, boil the other half of the head, rub it over with yolk of egg, ftrew on bread-crumbs, with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parf- ley; bafie it before the fire, let it be a nice brown, and lay it on the hafh. To hdjh a Calf’s Head white. Take half a pint of gravy, a gill of white wine, a little beaten mace, a little nutmeg, and a little fait ; throw into your hafh a few mufhrooms, truffles, and morels, firfl parboiled, a few arti- choke bottoms and afparagus tops, (if they are in feafon) a large piece of butter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of cream, and a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup. Stir thefe all together till it becomes of a tolerable thicknefs, and pour it into the difh. Lay the other half of the head as above-mentioned, in the middle. Farley, 66. To hap a cold Calf’s Head. Cut it into dices, flour it, put to it a little boiled gravy, a little white wine, fome cream, a little catchup, white pepper, fait, and nutmeg, a few oyfters and their liquor, fined lemon-peel, boil this up gently together ; a few pickled or frefh mufhrooms, and a little lemon juice, or lemon-juice only. This may be en- riched