4^° The Family F Joyful an < berally. If the patient be Tick, he may take a vomit. This courfe will be fufficient to cure the bite of any of the poifonous animals of this country. The Sting of Wafps, Hornets, Bees, &c. « The flings of thefe poifonous infedfs are leldom attended with danger, uniefs when a perfon happens to be (lung by a great humber of them at the fame time ; in which cafe fomething fhould be done to abate the inflammation and fwellmg. Some, for this purpofe, apply honey, others lay pounded parfley to the part. A mixture of vinegar and Venice treacle is likewife re- commended ; but I have always found rubbing the part with warm fallad oil fucceed very well. Indeed, when the flings are fo numerous as to endanger the patient’s life, which is fome- times the cafe, he muft not only have oily poultices applied to the part, but muft likewife be bled, arid take fome cooling me- dicines, as nitre, or cream of tartar, and Ihould drink plentifully of diluting liquors, Buchan. Worms. Though numberlefs medicines are extolled for killing and expelling worms, yet no difeafe more frequently baffles the phy- ficians’ (kill. In general, the moll proper medicines for their ex- pulfion, are ftrong purgatives ; and to prevent their breeding, ftomachic bitters, with now and then a glafs of good wine. The beft purge for an adult is jalap and calomel. Five and twenty or thirty grains of the former, with lix or feven of the latter, mixed in fyrup, may be taken early in the morning, for a dofe. It will be proper that the patient keep the hotife all day, and drink nothing cold. The dofe may be repeated once or twice a week, for a fortnight or three weeks. On the intermediate days, the patient may take a drachm of the powder of tin, twice or thrice a-dav, mixed with fyrup, honey, or treacle. Thofe who do not chufe to take calomel, may make ufe of the bitter purgatives \ as aloes, hiera picra, tindlure of fenna, and rhubarb, &c. Oily medicines are fometimes found beneficial for expelling worms. An ounce of falad oil and a table fpoonful of com- mon fait may be taken in a glafs of red port wine thrice a-day, or oftener if the ftomach will bear it. But the more common form of uling oil is in elyfters. Oily clyfters, fweetened with fugar or honey, are very efficacious in bringing away the ftiort round worms called afcardes, and likewife the teres. I have frequently known thofe big bellies, which In children are