Candying and Drying. 3T5 Candied Orange-jlozvers. Boil Tome fugar to a candy-height, put fame orange-flowers to it, and take it off the fire for about a quarter of an hour, or till the flowers difcharge their juice, as it refrefhes the fugar; put it upon the fire again to bring it to the fame degree ; let it cool to half, put it into moulds, and dry it in a ftove of a mo- derate heat, kept as equal as poflible. It is known to be candied by thrufting a fmall Ikeyver into the corner of each mould to the bottom, and the top muft be fparkling like a diamond ; put the moulds upon one fide to drain a good while before you take out the candy, turn it over upon white paper, and keep it always in a dry place. Clermont, 541. To candy Ginger. Grate an ounce of race-ginger very fine, and put it into a tofling-pan, with a pound of loaf-fugar beat fine, and as much water as will diffolve it. Put them over a flow fire, and ftir them well till the fugar begins to boil; then ftir in another pound of fine fugar beat fine, and continue ftirring it till it be- comes thick. Then take it off the fire, and drop it in cakes upon earthen difhes ; fet them to dry in a warm place, when they will be hard and brittle, and have a white appearance. To candy Lemon or Orange-peel. Cut your lemons, or oranges, long ways; take out all the pulp, and put the rinds into a pretty ftrong fait and hard water llx days, then boil them in a large quantity of fpring water till they are tender; then take them out, and lay them on a hair fieve to drain ; then make a thin fyrup of fine loaf-fugar, a pound to a quart of water; put in your peels and boil them half an hour, or till they look clear; have ready a thick fyrup made of fine loaf-fugar, with as much water as will diffolve it ; put in your peels, and boil them over a flow fire till you fee the fyrup candy about the pan and peels ; then take them out, and grate fine fugar all over them ; lay them on a hair fieve to drain, and fet them in a ftove, or before the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B. Do not cover your fauce-pan when you boil either le- mons or oranges. Raff aid, 246. To candy Angelica. Take it in April; boil it in water till it is tender, then take it up and drain it from the water very well; then fcrape the out- fide of it, and dry it in a clean cloth, and lay it in the fyrup, and let it lie in three or four days, covered clofc ; the fyrup muft be