412. The Family Fhyjician. humours. An infufion of the Peruvian bark in wine or ale would be of great lervice. Melancholy. Melancholy is that ftate of alienation or weaknefs of mind which renders people incapable of enjoying the pleafures, or per- forming the duties of life. It is a degree of infanity, and often terminates in abfolute madnefs. It may proceed from an hereditary difpofition ; intenfe think- ing ; violent palTions or affe&ions of the mind, as love, fear, joy, grief, and fuch like ; alfo from poifons, a fedentary life, folitude,' the fupprelTion of cuftomary evacuations, acute fevers, or other difeafes. Violent anger will change melancholy into madnefs ; and exceffive cold, efpecially of the lower extremities, will force the blood into the brain, and produce all the fymp- toms of madnefs. To all which we may add gloomy or mifta- ken notions of religion. When perfons begin to be melancholy, they are timorous, watchful, fond of folitude, fretful, fickle, captious and inquifi- tive, folicitous about trifles; fometimes niggardly, and at other times prod’gal. The body is generally bound ; the urine thin, and in fmall quantity; the ftomach and bowels inflated with wind, the complexion pale, the pulfe flow and weak. The functions of the mind are alfo greatly perverted, in fo much that the patient often imagines himfelf dead, or changed into fome other animal. Some have imagined their bodies were made of glafs, or other brittle fubflances, and were afraid to move, left 4 they fhould be broken to pieces. The unhappy patient, in this cafe, unlefs carefully watched, is apt to put an endto his own miferable life. When the difeafe is owing to an obftru&ion of cuftomary evacuations, or any bodily diforder, it is eafier cured than when it proceeds from affe&ions of the mind, or an hereditary taint. A difeharge of blood from the nofe, looienefs, fcabby eruptions, the bleeding piles. Or the menjes, fometimes carry off this dif- eafe. The diet fhould confift chiefly of vegetables of a cooling and opening quality. Animal food, efpecially falted or fmoke-dried fiih or flelh, ought to be avoided. The moft proper drink is water, whey, or fmall beer. Tea and coffee are improper. If honey agrees .with the patient, it jnay be eaten freely, or his drink may be fweetened with it. In- fufions of balm-leaves, penny-royal, the roots of wild valerian, or