Pancakes and Fritters, 283 fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat. Farley, 226. Strawberry Fritters. Make a batter with flour; a fpoonful of oil, white wine, a little rafped lemon-peel, and the whites of two or three eggs ; make it pretty foft, juft fit to drop with a fpoon. Mix fome large ftrawberries with it, and drop them with a fpoon, the big- nefs of a nutmeg, into the hot fritter. When of a good golour, take them out, and drain them on a fieve; when ready to ferve, ftrew fugar over, or glaze them. Dalrymple, 389. Plain Fritters. Grate the crumb of a penny-loaf, and put it into a pint of milk ; mix it very fmooth ; when cold, add the yolks of five eggs, three ounces of fifted fugar, and fome grated nutmeg ; fry them in hogs’-lard ; pour melted butter, wine, and fugar, into the difh. Currants may be added, as an improvement. Fanfey Fritters. Pour a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a penny-loaf, let it ftand an hour, and then put as much juice of tanfey to it as will give it a flavour; (too much will make it bitter,) then, with the juice of fpinach, make it a pretty green. Put to it a fpoonful of ratafia-water, or brandy, fweeten it to your tafte, grate the rind of half a lemon, beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them all together ; put them in a tolling-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; ftir it over a flow fire, till it is quite thick ; take it off, and let it ftand two or three hours; then drop them into a pan full of boiling lard ; a fpoonful is enough for a fritter ; ferve them up with flices of orange round them, grate fugar over them, and ferve wine fauce in a boat. Ranald, 163. Currant Fritters. Take half a pint of ale that is not bitter, ftir a fufficient quantity of flour in it to make it pretty thick ; add a few cur- rants ; beat this up quick, have the lard boiling, throw in a large fpoonful at a time. Royal Fritters, Put a quart of new milk in a fauce-pan, and, as the milk boils up, pour in a glafs of fack. Let it boil up, then take it off, and let it ftand five or fix minutes ; then fkim off all the curd and put it into a bafon ; beat it up well with fix eggs, feafon it with nutmeg; then beat it with a whifk ; add flour to make it as thick as batter ufually is, put in fome fine fugar, and fry them quick. GlaJJ'e, *62,