Made Dijbes of Poultry, &c. *35 Another way. Take a fmall turkey and bone it; fill it with a force-meat made as follows :—Take half a pound of veal, and the meat of two pigeons, a tongue out of the pickle, boiled and peeled ; chop all thei'e ingredients together, and beat them in a mortar, with fome marrow from a beef bone, or a pound of fuet from a loin of veal; feafon them with two or three cloves, two or three blades of mace, and half a nutmeg dried at the fire and pounded, with fome fait. Mix all thefe well together, fill the turkey, and fry it of a fine brown ; put it into a pot that will juft hold it, lay fome fkewers at the bottom of the pot to keep the turkey from flicking; put in a quart of good beef gravy, cover it clofe, and let it flew for half an hour very gently ; then put in a glafs of red wine, one fpoonful of catchup, a large fpoonful of pickled mufhrooms, fome truffles, morels, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; cover it clofe, and let it flew half an hour longer. Fry fome hollow French loaves, then take forfie oyflers, flew them in a fauce-pan with a bit of mace, their liquor, a little white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them flew till they are pretty thick, fill the loaves with them ; lay the turkey in the difn, pour the fauce over it, and lay the loaves on each fide. Mafon, 258. To flew a Turkey with Celery. Stuff the turkey as when flewed brown (leaving out the oyf- ters) or with force-meat; boil it till near enough, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a bunch of fvveet herbs in the water; have fome celery cut into lengths and boiled till near enough; put them into fome of the liquor the turkey was boiled in, lay in the turkey breaft downwards, flew it a quarter of an hour, or till it is done; but do not overdo it. Take it up, thicken the fauce with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and fome good cream ; add fait and chyan. Another zvay. Take a large turkey, and make a good white force-meat of veal, arid fluff the craw of the turkey; lkewer it for boiling, then boil it in foft water till it is almoft enough, and then take up your tuikey, and put it in a pot with fome of the water it K 4 was