The Family Fhyjician* 433 Anodyne Blajler. Melt an ounce of adhefive plalter, and, when it is cooling, mix with it a drachm of powdered opium, and the fame quan- tity of camphor, previoully rubbed up with a little oil. This plafter generally gives eafe in acute pains, efpecially of the nervous kind. BUJlering Plafter. Take of Venice turpentine, fix ounces ; yellow wax, two ounces; Spanilh flies, in fine powder, three ounces; powdered muflard, one ounce. Melt the wax, and while it is warm, add to it the turpentine, taking care not to evaporate it by too much, heat. After the turpentine and wax are fufficiently incorpo- rated, fprinkle in the powders, continually ftirring the mafs till it be cold. Though this plafter is made in a variety of ways, one feldom meets with it of a proper confiftence. When compounded with oils and other greafy fubftances, its effedfs are blunted, and it is apt to run; while pitch and refin render it too hard and very in- convenient. When the bliftering plafter is not at hand, its place may be fupplied by mixing with any foft ointment a fufficient quantity of powdered flies ; or by forming them into a pafte with flour and vinegar.. Gum Blajler. Take of the common plafter, four pounds ; gum ammoniac and galbanum, drained, of each half a pound. Melt them to- gether, and add, of Venice turpentine, fix ounces. This plafter is ufed as a digeftive, and likewife for difeufling indolent tumours. ' / > _ Method of dejlroying the putrid Smell which Meat acquires during hot Weather. Put the meat intended for making foup into a fauce-pan full of water, feum it when it boils, and then throw into the fauce-pan a burning coal, very compadl and deftitute of fmoke ; leave it there for two minutes, and it will have con- tracted all the fmell of the meat and foup. If you wifti to roaft a piece of meat on the fpit, or to bake it, put it into water till it boils, and, after having feummed it, throw in a burning coal as before ; at the end of two minutes, take out the meat, and, living wiped it well, put it on the fpit, ©r into the oven. Ff When