,33° hPreferving. put in a pint of the pippin juice, boil them fad till they are clear, then take them out; boil the fyrup as much more as is neceilary, with the juice of a lemon. The orange-peel muft be firft put into water for a clay, then boiled, to take out the bitter- nefs. Majon, 413. To preferve Cucumbers. You may take fmall cucumbers and large ones that will cut into cpiarters, (let them be as green and as free from feed as you can get them) put them into a ftrong fait and water, in a nar- 1 row-mouthed jar, with a cabbage-leaf to keep them down ; tie a paper over them, fet them in a warm place till they are yellow, walh them out, and fet them over the fire in frerh water, with a little fait in, and a frefii cabbage-leaf over them ; cover the pan very clofe, but take care they do not boil ; if they are not of a fine green, change your water, which will help them ; then make them hot, and cover them as before. When they are of a good green, take them off the fire, let them ftand till they are cold, then cut the large ones in quarters, take out the feeds and foft part, then put them in cold water, and let them ftand two days, but change the water twice each day to take out the fait; take a pound of ftngle-refined fugar, and half a pint of water, fet it over the fire. When you have fkimmed it clear, put in the rind of a lemon, and one ounce of ginger, with the outfide feraped off. When your fyrup is pretty thick, take it off, and when it is cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them in ; boil the fy- rup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ftrengthen the fyrup, if required, for the greateft danger of fpoiling them is at firft. The fyrup is to be quite cold when you put it to your cucumbers. Raffald, 215. To preferve Walnuts white. Pare your walnuts till only the white appears, and be careful in doing them that they do not turn black, and as faft as you do them throw them into fait and water, and let them lie till your fugar is ready. Take three pounds of good loaf-fugar, put it into your preferving-pan, fet it over a charcoal fire, and put as much water as will juft wet the fugar. Let it boil, then have ready ten or twelve whites of eggs drained and beat up to a froth ; cover your fugar with a froth as it boils, and fkim it; then boil it, and Ikim it till it is as clear as chryftal, then throw in your walnuts ; juft give them a boil till they are tender, then take them out, and lay them in a diftt to cool ; when cool, put them