Of Puddings. 261 beaten • mix it well, bake it half an hour. Majon, 377. Raj- faldy 182. Farley, 198. The two laft recommended fix eggs; Mrs. Majon, only four. In other refpe&s they all agree. A Grateful Pudding. Take a pound of fine flour, and a pound of white bread grated ; take eight eggs, with half the whites, beat them up, and mix with them a pint of milk ; then ftir in the bread and flour, a pound of raifins (toned, a pound of currants, half a pound of fugar, a little beaten ginger; mix all well together, and either bake or boil it. It will take three quarters of an hour baking. Put in cream, if you have it, inftead of milk; the pudding will be much improved by it. Glajfe, 219* Hard Dumplings. Put a little fait to fome flour and water, and make it into a pafte. Roll them in balls as large as a turkey’s egg ; roll them in a little flour, throw them into boiling water, and half an hour will boil them. They are bed boiled with a good piece of beef. For a change, you may add a few currants. A Hafy Pudding. Take a pint of cream, and a pint of milk, a little fait, and fweeten it with loaf-fugar ; make it boil; then put in fome fine flour, and keep it continually ftirring while the flour is put in, till it is thick enough, and boiled enough ; pour it out, and (tick the tops full of little bits of butter. It may be eaten with fugar or fait. Majon, 368. Herb Pudding. Of fpinach, beet, parlley, and leeks, take each a handful ; wa(h them and fcald them, then fhred them very fine ; have rpady a quart of groats deeped in warm water half an hour, and a pound of hog’s-lard cut in little bits, three large onions chopped fmall, and three fage-leaves hacked fine; put in a little fait, mix all well together, and tie it clofe up. It will require to be taken up in boiling to loofen the firing a little. Rajfald, 182, from Mfon, 372. A Hunting Pudding. Take the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of fix ; beat them up wpll with half a pint of cream, fix fpoonfulls of flour, one pound of beef fuet chopped fmall, a pound of currants well wafhed and picked, a pound of jar raifins ftoned and chopped fmall, two ounces of candied citron, orange and lemon, fhred fine ; put two ounces of fine fugar, a fpoonful of role-water, a glafs of brandy, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix all well to S 3 gather.