5 A Fowl T Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. 145 and drain the fauce, and ferve with the fowl. You may a’fo do it the fame without larding. Dalrymple, 214. A Ragoo of Fowls. Take a large capon, or two pullets, and blanch nicely in a morfel of butter or fcraped bacon, but cut off your pinions and feet, and tuck in the legs. Prepare your ragoo in the following manner:—get a fweetbread of veal, or two of lambs, the fat li- vers of a turkey or fowls, fome cocks’-dones, thrse or four mufhrooms, a thin dice or two of lemdh ; blanch all well with a knot or two of eggs, cut all into very fmall dice, and dew in a ladle of cullis ; you may add to it three or four gizards, and a few cocks’-combs, boiled very tender ; fill up the bellies of your fowls or capon, and few up at both ends, but make a referve of fome of your ragoo to pour over ; put them upon a lark-fpit ij acrofs, and tie upon another ; lard them with bacon, cover with 1 paper, and road them foftly, that they may be nice and white; * drew in a little minced pardey, a morfel of fhallot; fqueeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, ^and ferve up with the ragoo under. Remember to draw the threads out. Verral, » s9. To force a Fowl. ■ ? ' - # < tt Take a large fowl, pick it clean, and cut it down the back,, take out the entrails, and take the ficin off whole; cut the flefli from the bones, and chop it with half a pint of oyders, one ounce of beef marrow, a little pepper and fait; mix it up with cream, then lay the meat on the bones, and draw the fkin over it, and few up the back; then cut large thin dices bf bacon, and lay them over the bread of your fowl, tie the bacon on with a packthread in diamonds; it will take an hour roading by a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy fauce, pour it upon your difh, take the bacon off and lay in your fowl, and ferve it up. Garnifli with pickles, mufhrooms, or oyders.— It is proper for a fide-dilh for dinner, or top for fupper. Raf- fald, 124. * rr J Mr Farley, in page 120, gives the above receipt, with only , * e 0 owing addition:—“ Serve it up, garnifhed with oyders, ' mulhrooms, or pickles.”