The Family T Joyful an. 415 In flight bruifes it will be fufficient to bathe the part with warm vinegar, to which a little brandy or rum may occafionally be added, and to keep cloths wet with this mixture conflantly applied to it. This is more proper than rubbing it with brandy, fpirits of wine, or other ardent fpirits, which are commonly ufed in fuch cafes. In fome parts of the country the peafants apply to a recent bruife a cataplafm of frefh cow-dung. I have often feen this cataplafm applied to violent contufions occafioned by blows, falls, bruifes, and fuch like, and never knew it fail to have a good effect. When a bruife is very violent, the patient ought immediately to be bled, and put upon a proper regimen. His food fhould be light and cool, and his drink weak, and of an opening na- ture ; as whey fvveetened with honey, decoHions of tamarinds, barley, cream-tartar-whey, and fuch like. The bruifed part muft be bathed with vinegar and water, as directed above ; and a poultice made by boiling crumb of bread, elder-flowers, and camomile-flowers, in equal quantities of vinegar and water, ap- plied to it. This poultice is peculiarly proper when a wound is joined to the bruife. It may be renewed two or three times a-day. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS, WHICH WILL, IF FOLLOWED, INFALLIBLY PROLONG LIFE. An attention to diet is not only neceflary to the prefervation of health, but is likewife of importance in the cure of difeafes. Every intention in the cure of many difeafes, may be anfwered by diet alone. Its effects, indeed, are not always fo quick as thofe of medicine ; but they are generally more lafting. Befides, it is neither fo difagreeable to the patient, nor fo dangerous as medicine, and is always more eaflly obtained. Though moderation be the chief rule with regard to the quan- tity, yet the quality of food merits a further confideration. Ani- mal, as well as vegetable food, may be rendered unwholefome by being kept too long. All animal fubftances have a natural ten- dency to putrefaction ; and, when that has proceeded too far, they not only become offenfive to the fenfes, but hurtful to health. Animals which feed grofsly, as tame ducks, hogs, &c. are neither fo calily digelted, nor afford fuch wholefome nourifh- ment as others. No animal can be wholefome that does not take fuflicient exercife. Molt of out. (tailed cattle are crammed with