373 Fhe Family Phyfician. k. The inhabitants of every climate are liable to catch cold, nor can even the greateft circumfpeftion defend them at all times from its attacks. Indeed, if the human body could be kept condantly in an uniform degree of warmth, fuch a thing as catching cold would be impoffible ; but as that cannot be effected by any means, the perfpiration muft be liable to many changes. Such changes, however, when fmall, do not affedt the health ; but, when great, they muft prove hurtful. When oppreffion of the. bread, a duffing of the nofe, unufuai wearinefs, pain of the head, &c. give ground to believe that the perfpiration is obdrudted, or, in other words, that the perfon has caught cold, he ought immediately to leffen his diet, at lead the ufual quantity of his folid food, and to abdain from all drong li- quors. Indead of fledi, fifh, eggs, milk, and other nourilhing diet, he may eat light bread pudding, veal or chicken broth, pa-, nada, gruels, and fuch like. His drink may be water gruel - fweetened with a little honey ; an infufion of balm, or linfeed fharpened with the juice of orange or lemon ; a decodlion of barley and liquorice with tamarinds, or any other cool, diluting, acid liquor. Above all, his fupper fhould be light; as fmall poffet, or wa- ter gruel fweetened with honey, and a little toaded bread in it. If honey fliould difagree with the domach, the gruel may be fweetened with treacle or coarfe fugar, and diarpened with the jelly of currants. Thofe who have been accudomed to gene- rous liquors, may take wine whey indead of gruel, which may be fweetened as above. The patient ought to be longer than ufual in bed, and to en- courage a gentle fweat, which is eafily brought on towards morn- ing, by drinking tea, or any kind of warm diluting liquor. I have often known this practice carry off a cold in one day, which in all probability, had it been negleCled, would have cod the pa- tient his life, or have confined him for fome months. Would people facrifice a little time to eafe and warmth, and pra&ice a moderate degree of abdinence, when the firll fymptoms of a cold appear, we have reafon to believe, that mod of the bad effedis which flow from an obdrudfed perfpiration, might be prevented. But after the difeafe has gathered drength by delay, all attempts to remove it, often prove vain. A pleurify, a peripneumony, or a fatal confumption of the lungs, are the common effedts of colds, which have either been totally negleaed, or treated im- | properly. It is certain, however, that colds may be too much inc 1 ’