25° Elegant fmall Savoury Dijhes thicken it with flour and butter, and ferve them up with fippets. Raffald, 286. , To fry Celery. , When boiled, dip it in batter, fry it of a light brown in hogs’- lard; put it on a plate, and pour melted butter over it. Cucumbers Jtewed. Having pared your cucumbers, dice them about the thick- nefs of a crown piece; flice fome onion. Fry them both; drain and {hake a little flour over them. Put them into a ftew- pan with fome good gravy, chyan, and fait; flew them till ten- der. Or they may be ftewed in their own liquor, without be- ing fried ; chyan, and fait. Or take out the feeds, quarter the cucumbers, flew them till clear in fome boiled gravy; mix a little flour with fome cream, a very little white wine, and white pepper pounded. Boil it up. Majon, 338. To ragoo Cucumbers. Slice two cucumbers and two onions, and fry them in a little butter, then drain them in a fieve, put them into a fauce-pan, add fix fpoonfuls of gravy, two of white wine, and a blade of naace; let them flew five or fix minutes. Then take a piece of butter as big as a walnut rolled in flour, a little fait, and ch^an pepper ; lhake them together, and when it is thick, difh them up. Glciffey 113. Cucumbers with Eggs. Pare fix large' young cucumbers, and cut them into fquares about the lize of a dice ; put them into boiling water ; let them boil up, and take them out of the water, and put them into a ftevv-pan, with an onion ftuck with cloves, a good flice of ham, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little fait; fet it over the fire a quarter of an hour, keep it clofe covered, fkim it well, and fhake it often, as it is apt to burn ; then dredge in a little flour over them, and put in as much veal-gravy as will juft cover the cucumbers; Ifir it well together, and keep a gentle fire under it till no feum will rife; then take out the ham and onion, and put in the yolks of two eggs, beat up with a tea- cupful of cream ; ftir it well for a minute, then take it oft the fire, and juft before you put it in' the dilh, fqueeze in a little lemon-juice. Have ready five or fix poached eggs to lay on the top. Cucumbers fluffed with Force-meat. Peel as many cucumbers as you propofe for a difh ; take out the middle with an apple corer, blanqh them a littlq in boiling . water.