166 Made Dijhes of Poultry, £sV. up for a fide difh ; or they will ferve to garnifti the above difh, which will be a very fine one for a firft courfe. Note.-—When you have cold fowls in the houfe, this makes a pretty addition in an entertainment. GlaJJe, 96. Partridges en Afpic. Chop herbs, fuch as fhallots, parfley, tarragon, chives, gar- dcn-crefles, a little bafil, one clove of garlic, and chopped an- chovies. Mix thefe with muftard, oil, tarragon vinegar, pep- per, and fait. If you ferve the partridges whole, ferve the fauce cold in a fauce-boat. If for hot, cut the partridges as for a hafh; warm them in a little broth, then put them to the fauce; warm them together without boiling. You may alfo mix it the fame manner cold. If cold, it will be better to be mixed an hour or more before ufing. Da/rymple, 234. Partridges in Ragoo, with Oranges, Trufs your partridges, and roaft in the Englifh way, only ufe no flour. Make a fauce of the livers pounded, and add two or three of chickens; put it into a flew-pan with a green onion or two, a mufhroom, pepper and fait, and parfley. Boil all in cul- lis a few minutes, and (train through your etamine; cut the par- tridges as for a fricallee, and put to your fauce. Let it boil but juft long enough to make the meat hot through. Strip in a morfel or two of the peel, a bit of minced (hallot and parfley, fqueeze in a good deal of juice, and difh it up. Garnifti with oranges in quarters. Verral, 131. Partridges d-la-braze. Take two brace of partridges, trufs the legs into the bodies, lard them, feafon them with beaten mace, pepper, and fait; take a ftew-pan, lay dices of bacon at the bottom, then dices of beef, and then dices of veal, all cut thin, a piece of carrot, an onion cut fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and fome whole pepper. Lay the partridges with the breads downward, lay fome thin dices of beef and veal over them, and fome parfley fhred fine. Cover them, and let them (lew eight or ten minutes over a flow fire, then give your pan a fhake, and pour in a pint of boiling water. Cover it clofe, and let it flew half an hour over a little quicker fire : then take out your birds, keep them hot, pour into the pan a pint of thin gravy, let them boil till there is about * 4 .1 nnlf