jThe Family Fhyfician. 407 andliquorice with figs or raifins. The parts behind the ear ought frequently to be rubbed with camphorated oil, or a little of the volatile liniment. Fains in the Stomach. This may proceed from various caufes ; as indigeftion-; wind ; the acrimony of the bile ; fharp, acrid, or poifonous fubftances taken iiito the ftomach, &c. It may likewife be occafioned by worms ; the lloppage of cuftomary evacuations; a tranflation of gouty matter to the flomach, the bowels, &c. Wc/men in the decline of life are very liable to pains of the ftomach and bowels, efpecially fuch as are afflicted with hyfteric complaints. It is likewife very common 4o hypochondriac men of a fedentary and luxurious life. In fuch perfons it often proves fo extremely obftinate as to baffle all the powers of medicine. When the pain of the ftomach is mod violent after eating, there is reafon to fufpc£l that it proceeds from fome fault either in the digeftion or the food. In this cafe the patient ought ter change his diet till he finds what kind of food agrees belt with his ftomach, and fliould continue chiefly to ufe it. If a change of diet does not remove the complaint, the patient may take a gentle vomit, and afterwards a dofe or two of rhubarb. He ought likewife to take an infufion of camomile flowers, or fome other ftomachic bitter, either in wine or water. I have often known exercife remove this complaint, efpecially failing, or a long journey on horfeback, or in a carriage. When a pain of the ftomach proceeds from flatulency, the patient is conftantly belching up wind, and feels an uneafy de- tention of the ftomach after meals. This is a moft deplorable difeafe, and is feldom thoroughly cured. In general, the pa- tient ought to avoid all windy diet, and every thing that foflrs on the ftomach, as greens, roots, &c. If a pain of the ftomach proceed from the ftoppage of cuf- tomary evacuations, bleeding will be neceflary, efpecially in fanguine and very full habits. It will likewife be of ufe to keep the body gently open by mild purgatives, as rhubarb or fenna, &c. When this difeafe affedts women, in the decline of life, after the ftoppage of the menfes, making an iftue in the leg op arm will be of peculiar fervice. The Heartburn. What is commonly called the heart-burn, is not a difeafe of that organ, but an uneafy fenfation of heat or acrimony about D d 4 tty;