278 Of Pies. of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and a little fitgar, enough to fweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork ; put in half a pint of white wine, lay fome butter on the top, and clofe your pie ; if it be large, it will require a pint of white wine. GJaJJ'c, 144. Mafon, 357. Farley, 211. A Rock Pie. Take half a dozen young rooks, fkin them and draw them, cut out the back bones, feafon them well with pepper and fait, and lay them in a deep dilh, with a quarter of a pint of water ; lay half a pound of butter over them, make a good puff-pafte, and cover the difh ; lay a paper over. It requires to be well baked. 1 A Rabbit Pie. Cut a couple of young rabbits into quarters ; take a quarter of a pound of bacon, and bruife it to pieces in a marble mortar, with the livers, fome pepper, fait, a little mace, and fome parf- ley cut final!, fome chives, and a few leaves of fweet bafil; when thefe are all beaten fine, make the pafte, and cover the bottom of the pie with the feafoning, then put in the rabbits ; pound fome more bacon in a mortar, mix with it fome frefh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over that lay fome thin flices of bacon ; put on the lid, and fend it to the oven. It will require two hours baking. When done, take off the lid, take out the bacon, and fkim off the fat. If there is not gravy enough in the pie, pour in fome rich mutton or veal gravy, boiling hot. Mafon, 358. A Salmon Pie. Boil your falmon as if you intended it for eating; take the Ikin off, and all the bones out ; pound the meat in a mortar very fine, with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, to your tafle ; raife the pie, and put flowers or leaves on the walls; put in the fatmon and lid it ; let it bake an hour and an half. When done, take off the lid, and put in a quarter of a pound of rich melted butter; cut a lemon in flices, and lay over it ; flick in two or three leaves of fennel, and fend it to table without a lid. Raff aid, 149. A Soul Pie. Make a good cruft, cover your dilh, boil two pounds of eels tender, pick the fiefh from the bones, put the bones into the li- quor the eels were boiled in, with a blade of mace and fait; let them boil till there is only a quarter of a pint of liquor, then (train it; cut the flefh of the eels very fine, with a little lemon- peel 1