The Family Phyjtcian. 439 ROYAL HUMANE SOCIETY. Directions for the recovery of the Apparently Dead. T. The reiteration of heat is of the greateft confequence to the re- turn of life: when, therefore, the body is taken out of the water, the cloaths Ihould be dripped oil i or, it naked at the time ol the accident* it mull: be covered with two or three coats, or a blanket. 1 he body fhould then be carefully conveyed to the neared houle, with the head a little railed.—In cold and damp weather, the perlon fhould be laid on a bed. See. in a room that is moderately heated:—I-ti fuminer, on a bed expofed to the fays ol the fun, and not more than fix pei ions ad- mitted, as a greater number may relat'd the return of life. The body is to be well dried with warm cloths, and gently rubbed with flannels fprinkled with rum, brandy, gin, or mallard.—Fomentations of fpjrits may be applied to the pit of the Itomach with advantage.—A warming- pan covered with flannel Ihould be lightly moved up and down the back; bladders, or bottles filled with hot water, heated bricks, or tiles-wrapped up in flannel, ihould be applied to the foies of the feet, palms of the hands, and other parts of the body. II. Relpiration will be promoted by doling the mouth and one nof- tril, while, with the pipe of a bellows, you blow into the other with fufficient force to inflate the lungs ; another perfon ihould then prefs the cheft gently with his hands, fo as to expel the air. If the pipe be too large for the noltrils, the air may be blown in at the mouth, blow- ing the breath can only be recommended w hen bellows cannot be pro- cured. III. The bowels fhould be inflated with the fumes of tobacco, and repeated three or four times within the firit hour; but, if circumltances prevent the ufe of this vapour, then clyltersof this herb, or other acrid infulions with fait, may be thrown up with advantage. The fumigat- ing machine is fo much improved as to be of the higheft importance to the public; and if employed in every inllance of apparent death, it w'ould reftore the lives of many of our fellow creatures, as it now an- fwers the important purpofes of fumigation, inspiration, and expiration. IV. Agitation has proved a powerful auxiliary to the other means of recovery; one or more of the afliftants Ihould, therefore, take hold of the legs and arms, particularly of boys, and lhake their bodies for five or fix minutes; this may be repeated feveral times within the firit hour. When the body is wiped perfectly dry, it fhould be placed in bed between two healthy perfons, and the friction chiefly directed, in this cafe, to the left fide, where it will be molt likely to excite the mo- tion of the heart. V. When thefe methods have been employed for an hour, if any brewhoufe, bakehoufe, or glafshoufe, be near, where warm grains, allies, lees, &c. can be procured, the body Ihould be placed iiEany of thefe moderated to a degree of heat very little exceeding that of the perlon in health. If the warm bath can be conveniently obtained, it maybe adv-antageouliy ufed in conjunction with the earlieft modes of treatment. . VI. Electricity fhould be early employed, as it will- increafe the be- neficial efteCts of the .other means of recovery on the lyltem. “ The “ electrical fhock," fays Mr. Kite, in his Eflay on the Recovery of the apparently Dead, “ is to be admitted as the teit or diferimmatino- “ charaCteriftic of any remains of animal life; and fo long as that pro- duces