i N D E X. 460 ib; Another wav, 351. Birch wine, ib. llafpberry wine, ib. Turnip wine, ib. Goofe- berry wine, 352. Cherry wine, ib, Cowflip wine, ib. Smyrna raifin wine, 353. To mull, 348. Wine, anrimonial, to make, 429. Anthelmintic, ib. Bit- ter, ib. Woodcocks, to roaft, 15. Ano- ther way, nS. To boil, 30. To hafh, 168. Woodcocks in furtout, 171. In falmy, ib. Another way, ib. Worm powders, to make, 426. Purging worm powders, ib. Worms, to deftroy, 400. Tape worms, powder for, 426. Y. Yeaft dumplings, to make, 267. Yorkjbire pudding, to make, ib. Another way, 268, FINIS. Books lately publi/hed. ELEGANT TALES, HISTORIES, AND EPISTLES, Of a moral tendency, on Love, Friendfhip, Matrimony, Conjugal Felicity, Jea- lOufy, Conftancy, Magnanimity, Cheerfulncl's, and other important fubjefts. Price four thillings, fewed; WOMAN; Sketches of the Hiflory, Genius, Difpofition, Accomplifhments, Cuftoms, and Importance of the Fair Sex, in all parts of the World. llluftrated with Angular Anecdotes, and entertaining Narratives, fupported by Authority. By a Friend to the Sex. u Nature made you to temper Man.” Otway. The Fourth Edition, much enlarged, •{Ornamented with .a confiderable number of new plates, containing feveral views in the newly difcovered iflands, fundry animals, an cxaft reprefentation of an Hurpan Sacrifice, Captain Cook’s Head, from Pingo’s medal, and a chart of the new dilcoveries with the tracks of the fhips) A complete ABRIDGMENT of Captain COOK’s VOYAGES round the WORLD; • Containing a faithful account of all the difcoveries, with tlie tranfaftions at each place, a defcription of the inhabitants, with their manners and cuftoms, a full detail of the circumftances relative to Capt. Cook’s death, and an ac- count of his life by Capt. King. Thofe who fuperintend the education of youth of either fex cannot put into th'eir hands a more acceptable work, for the amufement of leifurc Hours, than thefe late voyages of difcovery, which abound with matter highly intercfting and entertaining. / , In two volumes. Price eight fhillings. '■'y* Either volume may be had feparate, Price four fhillings,