Made Dijhes of Veal. 74 Veal a-la-Bourgeoife. Lard Tome pretty thick flices with bacon, and feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and chopped pardey ; then cover the dewpan with dices of fat bacon, lay the veal upon them, cover it, and fet it over a very dow fire for eight or ten minutes, fo as to be jud hot, and no more ; then bride up your fire, and brown your veal on both fides ; then fhake fome flour over it and brown it. Pour in a quart of good broth or gravy, cover it clofe, and let it dew gently till it is enough ; then take out the dices of bacon, and fkim all the fat off clean, and beat up the yolks of three eggs with fome of the gravy. Mix all together, and keep it dirring one way till it is fmooth and thick ; then take it up, lay your meat in the di(h, pour the fauceover it, grid garnifh with lemon. A Fricando of Veal. Cut deaks half an inch thick, and fix inches long, out of the thick part of a leg of veal, lard them with fmall cardoons, and dud them with dour ; put them before the fire to broil a fine brown, then put them into a large toding-pan with a quart of good gravy, and let it dew half an hour ; then put in two tea-fpoonfuls of lemon-pickle, a meat-fpoonful of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, a dice of lemon, a little an- chovy and chyan, a few morels and truffles. When your fri- candos are tender, take them up, and thicken your gravy with flour and butter ; drain it, place your fricandos in the difh, pour your gravy on them. Garnifh with lemon and bar- berries. You may lay round them force-meat balls fried, or force-meat rolled in a veal caul, and yolks of eggs hard boiled, Roffald, 94. Veal Rolls. Take ten or twelve little thin dices of veal, lay on them fome force-meat according to your fancy, roll them up, and tie them jud acrofs the middle with coarfe thread ; put them on a bird-fpit, rub them over with the yolks of eggs, dour them, and bade them with butter. Half an hour will do them. Lay them in a did), and have ready fome good gravy, with