Of Cakes. 3I3 to give them a flavour, mb them round the mortar for half an hour; put in a few carraway-feeds. Take a (heet of wafers, lay them on as broad as a fixpence, and as high as they can be laid ; put them in a moderate oven half a quarter of an hpur, add they will look as white as fnow. MaJ'on, 407. German Puffs. Mix two fpoonfuls of fine flour with two eggs well beat, half a pint of cream or milk, and two ounces of melted butter; {fir it all well together, and add a little fait and nutmeg. Put them in tea-cups, or little deep tin moulds, half full, and bake them a quarter of an hour in a quick oven; but let it be hot enough to colour them at top or bottom. Turn them into a difh, and drew powder-fugar over them. Lemon Puffs. Beat and flft a pound of double-refined fugar, put it in a bowl with the juice of two lemons, and beat them well together. Then, having beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it alfo in your bowl, and beat it half an hour ; add three eggs, and two rinds of lemons grated mix it well up, duff fome fugar on your papers, drop on the puffs in fmall drops, and bake them in an oven moderately hot. To make Wafers. Put the yolks of two eggs, well beat, to a pint of cream, mix it as thick as a pudding with flour well dried, and fugar and orange-flower water to the tafle; put in warm water enough to make it as thin as fine pancakes ; mix them very fmooth, and bake them over a Hove. Butter the irons when they (tick. Icings for Cakes. Take a pound of double-refined fugar, pounded and fifted fine, and mix it with the whites of twenty-four eggs in an earthen pan ; whilk them well for two or three hours, till it looks white and thick, and then, with a thin broad board, or bunch of feathers, fpread it all over the top and fides of the cake. Set it at a proper diftance before a clear fire, and keep turning it con- tinually that it may not turn colour; but a cool oven is beft, where an hour will harden it. Or you may make your icing thus: Beat the whites of three eggs to a ftrong froth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fine with rofe-water, and mix your almonds with the eggs lightly together ; then beat a pound of loaf fugar very fine, and put it in by degrees. When your cake is enough, take it out, lay on your icing, and proceed as above directed, Farley, 304. CANDYING