the Family Phyfician. 419 but alfo that it be taken at regular periods. Some imagine long fading will atone for excefs ; but this, indead of mending the matter, generally makes it worfe. When the domach and in- tedines are over didended with food, they lofe their proper tone, and, by long fading, they become weak, and indated with wind. Thus either gluttony or fading dedroys the powers of digedion. The frequent repetition of aliment is not only neceflary for repairing the continual wade of our bodies, but likewife to keep the humours found and fweet. Our humours, even in the mod healthy date, have a condant tendency to putrefadlion, which can only be prevented by frequent fupplies of frefh nourifhment. When that is wanting too long, the putrefa&ion often proceeds fo far as to occadon very dangerous fevers. From hence we may learn the necedity of regular meals. No perfon can enjoy a good date of health, whofe veifels are either frequently over- charged, or the humours long deprived of frefh fupplies of chyle. Long fading is extremely hurtful to young people; it not only vitiates their humours, but prevents their growth. Nor is it lefs injurious to the aged. Mod perfons, in the decline of life, are affli&ed with wind. This complaint is not only in- creafed, but even rendered dangerous, and often fatal, by long fading. Old people, when their domachs are empty, are fre- quently feized with giddinefs, head-achs, and faintnefs. Thefe complaints may generally be removed by a bit of bread and a glafsof wine, or fading any other folid food, which plainly points out the method of preventing them. It is a very common pra&ice to eat a light breakfad and a heavy fupper. This cudom ought to be reverfed. When people fup late, their fupper fhouldbe very light, but the breakfad ought always to be folid. If any one eats a light fupper, goes foon to bed, and rifes betimes in the morning, he will be fure to find an appetite for his breakfad, and he may freely indulge it. The drong and healthy do not indeed differ fo much from fading, as the weak and delicate ; but they run great hazard from its oppofite, viz. repletion. Many difeafes, efpecially fe- vers, are the effedl of a plethora, or too great fulnefs of the vef- fels. Strong people, in high health, have generally a great quan- tity of blood and other humours. When thefe are fuddenly in- creafed, by an overcharge of rich and nourifhing diet, the veffels become too much didended, and obdrudlions and inflammations E e a enfue.