Tht Family Fhyfician. 409 has digefted for two or three days, it ought to be (trained, and four ounces of white fugarcandy added to it. It muft (land to digeft a fecond time till the fugar be diffolved. A table-fpoon- ful of it may be taken occafionally for a dofe. The heart-burn has often been cured, particularly in pregnant women, by chewing green tea. Floe Hiccup. This may proceed from excels in eating or drinking; from a hurt of the (tomach ; poifons; inflammations or fchirrous tu- mours of the (tomach,' inteftines, bladder, midriff, or the re(t of the vifcera. In gangrenes, acute and malignant fevers, a hiccup is often the forerunner of death. Wiien the hiccup proceeds from the ufe of aliment that is fta-^ tulent, or hard of digeftion, a draught of generous wine, or a drachm of any fpirituous liquor, will generally remove it. If poifon be the caufe, plenty of milk and oil muft be drank, as has been formerly recommended. When it proceeds from an in- flammation of the (tomach, &c. it is very dangerous. In this cafe the cooling regimen ought to be ftri£tly obferved. The patient mu(t be bled, and take frequently a few drop of the fweet fpirits of nitre in a cup of wine whey. His (tomach fhould likewife be-fomented with cloths dipped in warm water, or have bladders filled with warm milk and water applied to it. When the hiccup proceeds from a gangrene or mort fication, the Peruvian bark, with other antifeptics, are the only medi- cines which have a chance to fucceed. When it is a primary difeafe, and proceeds from a foul (tomach, loaded either with a pituitous or a bilious humour, a gentle vomit and purge, if the patient be able to bear them, will be of fervice. When the hiccup proves very obftinate, recourfe muft be had to the mod powerful aromatic and antifpafmodic medicines. The principal of thefe is mufk; fifteen or twenty grains of which may be made into a bolus, and repeated occafionally. Opiates are likewife of fervice ; but they muft be ufed with cau- tion. A bit of fugar dipped in compound fpirits of lavender, or the volatile aromatic tin&ure, may be taken frequently. Ex- ternal applications are fometimes alfo beneficial ; as the (tomach plafter, or a cataplafm of the Venice treacle of the Edinburgh or London difpenfatory, applied to the region of the (tomach. Dijlocation, vulgarly called, a Breaking of the Neck. This may happen by falls, or violent blows. In th s cafe, if the patient receives no alfiftance, he foon dies, which make* people