/ Of Puddings. 267 hour; take it up in a bafon, and let it fland one quarter, then turn it carefully out, and put white-wine fauce round it. The above receipt, with very inconfiderable alterations, ap- T pears in Mafon, 370 ; Raff aid, 176 ; and Farley, 194. A Tranfparent Pudding. Beat eight eggs well, put them in a pan with half a pound of frefh butter, half a pound of fine powdered fugar, and halt a nutmeg grated ; fet it on the fire, and keep flirring it. till it is of the thicknefs of buttered eggs ; then put it away to cool ; put a \ thin puff pafle round the edge of your difh ; pour in the ingre- dients, bake it half an hour in a moderate oven, and fend it up hot. It is a pretty pudding for a corner for dinner, and a middle for fupper. Raff aid, 175, Farley, 189, from Glaffe, 222. Vermicelli Pudding. Boil a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in a pint of milk till it is foft, with a flick of cinnamon ; thfen take out the cinnamon, and put in half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and a quarter of a pound of fugar, with the yolks of four eggs well beaten.—Bake it in an earthen difh without a pafle. Teaf Dumplings. Make a light dough, as for bread, with flour, water, yeafl, and fait; cover it with a cloth, and fet it before the fire for half an hour. Then have a fauce-pan of water on the fire, and when it boils, take the dough, and make it into little round balls, as big as a large hen’s egg. Then flatten them with your hand, put them into the boiling water, and a few minutes will do them. Take care that they do not fall to the bottom of the pot or fauce-pan, for they will then be heavy, and be fure to keep the water boiling all the time. When they are enough, take them up, and lay them in your difh, with melted butter in a boat. To fave trouble, you may get your dough at the baker’s, which will do as well. A Yorkjhire Pudding. Take a quart of milk and five eggs, beat them up well toge* ther, and mix them with flour till it is of a good pancake batter, and very fmooth ; put in a little fait, fome grated nutmeg and ginger; butter a dripping or frying-pan, and put it under a piece of beef, mutton, or a loin of vealy that is roatiing, and then put in your batter; and when the top-fide is brown, cut it in fquare pieces, and turn it, and then let the und xiide brown. Put it in a hot difh, as clean from fat as you <. [ fend it to table hot. ,