359 Vegetables. To drefs Caulijlozvers. . Cut the (talks off, and leave a little green on; boil them in fpring water and fait; about fifteen minutes will do them. If it is boiled too foft, you will fpoil it. Mrs. Majon recom- mends boiling cauliflowers in plenty of milk and water, with- out fait. To drefs French Beans. String them, and if not very fmall, fplit and .quarter them, throw them into fait and water; boil them in a quantity of wa- ter, with fome fait. When they are tender, they are enough. They will be foon done. N. B. Make all greens boil as quick as poflible, as it pre- ferves their colour. To drefs Bar flips. Parfnips fhould be boiled in a great deal of water, and when they are foft, which may be known by running a fork into them, they are enough. They either may be ferved whole with melted butter, or beat fmooth in a bowl, heated with a little cream, but- ter, and flour, and a little fait.. To drefs Peas. Your peas fhould not be fhelled till juft before you want them. Put them into boiling water with a little fait, and a lump of loaf fugar, and when they begin to dent in the middle, they are enough. Strain them into.a fieve, put a good lump of butter into your difh, and ftir them till the butter is lrfelted Boil a fprig of mint by itfelf, chop it fine, and lay it round the edge of your difh in lumps. To drefs Potatoes. Boil them in as little water as you can without burning the fauce-pan. Cover the fauce-pan clofe, and when the {kin begins to crack, they are enough. Drain all the water out, and let them ftand covered for a minute or two. To drefs Spinach. Pick it clean, and wafh it in feveral waters ; put it into a fauce-pan that will juft hold it, throw a little fait over it and co- ver the pan clofe. Put no water in ; fhakc the pan often. When the fpinach is fhrunk and fallen to the bottom, and thq liquor which comes out of them boils up, they are enough. Throw it into a clean fieve to drain, and give it a fqueezc between two plates. Put it on a plate, and fend it up with butter in a boat, but never pour any over them. Sorrel is ftewcd in the fame manner. A a 4 To