234 Of Fifh. with Tome ovflers fried in batter, and fome /craped horfe-radifh. Stick your fried fippets in the di/h. N. E. If you are in a great hurry, while the fauce is making, you may boil the fifh with fpring water, half a pint of vinegar, a little horfe-radifh, and a bay-leaf. Put your fifh in the dilh, and pour the fauce over it. Glajfe, 124. To Jiezv Carp white. Scale, gut, and vvafli them ; put them into a ffew-pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pepper, and fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a thick ol horfe-radifh; cover the pan clofe, let it hand an hour and an half over a flow fire; then put a gill of white wine into a fauce-pan, with two anchovies chopped, an onion, a little lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a little thick cream, and a large tea-cup of the liquor the carp was Hewed in ; boil them a few minutes, drain your carp, add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs mixed wdth a little cream ; when it boils up, fqueeze in the juice of half a lemon ; difli up your carp, and pour your fauce hot upon it. Raffald, 26. Farley, 74. To Jlew Carp brown. Put a quart of good gravy into the ftew-pan, add the blood of the carp, (if agreeable) half a pint of fmail beer, (if bitter, only a quarter of a pint) a quarter of a pint of red wine, a large onion, half a dozen cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and horfe-radifh ; let them flew gently till reduced to the quantity that is wanted. Strain the liquor; add to it catchup, lemon-juice, fome of the hard roe brui fed, chyan, a little fait, if neceflary. Simmer this; and, if not thick enough, mix a little flour fmooth in fome gra- vy, and boil it up in it, ftirring it. Let the carp be boiled, and well drained in a doth; put it into the fauce, fimmer it two or three minutes. Let the remainder of the roe be mixed with egg, a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, fried in little cakes ; garnifh the difli with thefe fippets, cut with three corners, and fried dry, horfe-radifh and fliced lemon. Mafon, 235. To drefs Carp the bef way. When you kill your carp, fave the blood, fcale and clean them well ; have ready fome rich gravy made of beef and mutton, fea- foned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion ; drain it orFbefore you Hew your fifh in it; boil your carp firfl before you flew it in the gravy. Be careful not to boil them too much before you put in the carp ; then let it flew on a flow fire about a quarter of an hour, thicken the fauce with a good lump of butter rolled in flour;