Made Dijhcs of Lamb. 116 To bake Lamb and Rice. Take a neck or loin of lamb, half road it, take it up, cut it into (leaks, then take half a pound of rice boiled in a quart of , 'water ten minutes, put it into a quart of good gravy, with two or three blades of mace, and a little nutmeg. Do it over a (love or'flow fire till the rice begins to be thick ; then take it off, flir in a pound of butter, and when that is quite melted, dir in the yolks of fix eggs, firft beat; then take a difh and butter it all over; take the (leaks and put a little pepper and fait over them; dip them in a little melted butter, lay them into the di(h, pour the gravy which comes out of them over them, and then the rice ; beat the yolks of three eggs, and pour all over ; fend it to the oven, and bake it better than half an hour. Glaffe, 52. Mrs. Mafoiiy in page 72 of the Lady’s Affiflant, has the above receipt, with only a little variation of the language. Prepare the (houlder as the preceding ; make a force-meat of roafted fowls, calf’s udder or luet, bread-crumbs foaked in cream, chopped parfley, (ballots, pepper, fait, and four yolks pf eggs ; then (ill the (houlder with it, and make it as round as poffibie; faflen it well, that the force-meat may not get out; then lard it, and (lew it in broth, with a faggot of fweet herbs. When done, drain the fauce through a lawn (ieve, reduce it to a glaze, and glaze the larded part. Serve with what fauce or ra-l •* Blanch your fweetbreads, and put into cold water a while, put •them into a dew-pan with a ladle of broth, with pepper, fait, a fmall bunch of green onions and parfley, and a blade of mace ; flir in a bit of butter with flour, and dew all about half an hour. - Make ready a liafon of two or three eggs and cream, with a little minced parfley and nutmeg ; put in tops of afparagus that you are to have ready boiled, and pour in your liafon, and take care it does.not curdle ; add fome juice of lemon or orange, and fend it to table. You may make ufe of peas, young goofcbcrries, Shoulder of Lamb neighbour fafhion. goo you pleafe. Lambs' Sweetbreads.