&c. 137 Made Dijhes of Poultry, 35 you pleafe. Put good gravy in the difh, and garnifh with le- mon. Be fure to leave the pinions on. GlaJJ'e, 32. A Turkey in Jelly. Boil a turkey or a fowl as white as you can, let it {land till cold, and have ready a jelly made thus :—I ake a fowl, fkin it, take off all the fat, do not cut it to pieces, nor break the bones ; take four pounds of a leg of veal, without any fat or fkin, put it into a well-tinned fauce-pan, put to it full three quarts of wa- ter, fet it on a very clear fire till it begins to fimrner; be fure to fkim it well, but take great care it does not boil. When it is well fkimmed, fet it fo as it will but juft feem to fimrner; put to it two large blades of mace, half a nutmeg, and twenty corns of white pepper, a little bit of lemon-peel as big as a fix-pence. This will take fix or feven hours doing. When you think it is a ftiff jelly, which you will know by taking a little out to cool, be fure to Ikim off all the fat, if any, and be fure not to ftir the meat in the fauce-pan. A quarter of an hour before it is done, throw in a large tea-fpoonful of fait, fqueeze in the juice of half a Seville orange or lemon. When you think it is enough, drain it off through a clean fieve, but do not pour it off quite to the bottom, for fear of fettlings. Lay your turkey or fowl in the difh you intend to fend it to the table in, beat up the whites of fix eggs to a froth, and put the liquor to it, then boil it five or fix minutes, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, then pour the liquor over it; let it ftand till quite cold, colour fome of the jelly in different colours, and when it is near cold, with a fpoon fprinkle it over in what form or fancy you pleafe, and fend it to table. A few naftertium flowers ftuck here and there look pretty, if you can get them ; but lemon, and all thofe things, are entirely fancy, This is a very pretty difh for a cold collation, or a fupper. All forts of birds or fowls may be done this way. Glafle, 348. Mrs. Mafon, page 261, has the fame receipt in different words; but we have chofen the above as being rather more ex- plicit. A Turkey the Italian zvay. Mince the liver of a young turkey very fine, with fome chop- ped parfley, and two or three handfuls of frefh mufhrooms, fome pepper, fait, and more than an ounce of butter; mixthefe well