2 86 Of Tickling. \ out,- as it will foon fpoil them ; but always make ufe of a fpoon upon thofe occafions. To pickle Cucumbers. x Let your cucumbers be as free from fpots as poflible, and take the fmallefi you can get Put them into ltrong fait and water for nine or ten days, or till they become yellow ; and ftir them at lead twice a day, or they will grow foft. Should they be- come perfe£lly yellow, pour the water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine-leaves. Set your water over the fire, and when it boils, pour it upon them, and fet them upon the hearth to keep warm. When the water is almoft cold, make it boiling hot again, and pour it upon them. Proceed in this man- ner till you perceive they are of a fine green, which they will be in four or five times. Be careful to keep them well covered with vine-leaves, with a cloth and dilh over the top, to keep in the fleam, which will help to green them the fooner. When they are greened, put them in an hair fieve to drain, and then make the following pickle for them :—To every two quarts of white wine vinegar, put half an ounce of mace, ten or twelve cloves, an ounce of ginger cut into dices, an ounce of black pep- per, and an handful of fait. Boil them all together for five mi- nutes, pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for ufe. You may pickle them with ale, ale-vinegar, or diddled vinegar ; and you may add three or four cloves of gar- lic or fhallots. Rajff'ald, 342. Farley, 236. To pickle Cucumbers in Jlices. Take fome large cucumbers before they are too ripe, dice them of the thicknefs of crown pieces in a pewter difh ; to every twelve cucumbers, dice two large onions thin, and fo on till you have filled your dilh, with a handful of fait between every row; then cover them with another pewter difli, and let them fland twenty-four hours; then put them into a cullender, and let them drain very well. Put them in a jar, cover them over with white wine vinegar, and let them fland four hours; pour the vinegar from them into a copper fauce-pan, and boil it with a little fait; put to the cucumbers a little mace, a little whole pepper, a large race of ginger diced, and then pour the boil- ing vinegar on. Cover them clofe, and when they are cold, tie them down. They will be fit to cat in tw'O or, three days. GIoffe, 270. T9 pickle Mangoes. Cucumbers ufed for this purpofc mull be of the largeft fort, and