^88 Of Pickling. white. If you like the tafte of bay-leaf, you may put one or two into every bottle, and as much bay-falt as will lie on a fixpencc. Cork them well up. Farley, 249. To pickle PValnuts black. Your walnuts fhould be gathered when the fun is hot upon them, and always before the fhell is hard, which may be eafily known by running a pin into them ; then put them into a ftrong fait and water for nine days j flir them twice a day, and change the fait and water every three days ; then put them in a hair fieVe, and let them ftand in the air till they turn black ; then put them into flrong ftone jars, and pour boiling allegar over them ; cover them up, and let them ftand till they are cold, then boil the allegar three times more, and let it.ftand till it is cold between every time; tie them down with paper, and a bladder over them, and let them ftand two months ; then take them out of the allegar, and make a pickle for them. To every two quarts of allegar, put half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, one ounce of black pepper, the fame of Jamaica pep- per, ginger, and long pepper, and two ounces of common fait ; boil it ten minutes, and pour it hot upon your walnuts, and tie them down with a bladder, and paper over it. Raffald, 347. Another way. Take large full-grown nuts, but before they are hard, and lay them in fait and water ; let them lie two days, then fhift them into frefh water; let them lie two days longer, then fhift them again, and let them lie three in your pickling jar. When the jar is half full, put in a large onion ftuck with cloves. To a hundred walnuts, put in half a pint of muftard-feed, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of black pepper, half an ounce of all-fpice, fix bay-leaves, and a flick of horfe-radifh ; then fill your jar, and pour boiling vinegar over them. Cover them with a plate, and when they are cold, tie them down with a bladder and lea- ther, and they will be fit to eat in two or three months The next year, if any remains, boil up your liquor again, and fkim it ; when cold, pour it over your walnuts. This is by much the belt pickle for ufe, therefore you may add more vinegar to it ; what quantity you pleafe. If you pickle a great many wal- nuts, and eat them faft, make your pickle for a hundred or two, the reft keep in ftrong brine of fait and water, boiled till it will bear an egg"; and as your pot empties, fill them up with thofe in the fait" and water. Take care that they arc covered with pickle. In