Made Difhes of Hares, Rabbits, &c. 179 : 4 it 1 Hare Cake. Chop the flefh of a hare very fine, take fome bacon In dice about half the quantity, feafon with pepper, a little fait, and fpice, a green onion or two, and a morfel of fhallot \ mix all well together, and prepare a ftew-pan juft wide enough, that it may cut in flices about two inches thick ; line your bottom with thin bacon, and cover with the fame ; pour in a ladle of broth, and a glafs of red wine, fome flices of carrot, onion, and herbs j let it fimmer gently for two or three hours, take off" the cover, and let it cool; the next day take it out, and trim it nice and round; pound fome of the bacon it was ftewed in, and when you ferve it to table, fpread it upon the top like fugar upon a plumb-cake, and ferve it to table upon a napkin. If it is well done, it will keep a fortnight for flices. Veal cake may be done in the fame manner, only inftead of red wine put white ; and do not cover it fo much but that every one at table may fee what it is. Verral, 227. Hare Cake in Jelly. Having boned the hare, and picked out the finews, add an equal quantity of beef; chop thefe and pound them ; add frefh mufhrooins, fhallot, (and garlick if agreeable), fweet herbs, pepper and fait, two or three eggs. Mix thefe with bacon and pickled cucumbers cut like dice, put it into a mould fheeted with flices of bacon ; cover it, bake it in a moderate oven ; when cold, turn it out. Lay over it the following jelly:—a pound and an half of fcrag of veal, a dice of ham, two or three cloves, a little nutmeg, fome fweet herbs, a carrot or two, fome fhallot, two bay leaves, an ounce of ifing-glafs, with fome beef broth ; flew this till it will jelly, pafs it through a fine fieve, then through a bag; add fome lemon-juice. Mafon, 303. Leveret Kid fajhion, * Lard a large leveret, marinade it about three hours in a warm marinade, made of water, vinegar, butter, flour, pep- per, and fait, chopped parfley, lhallots, fliced onions, thyme, laurel, bafil, lemon-peel, and cloves ; then roaft it, bailing with fome of the marinade; fift the remainder, mix it with a little cullis, and ferve it in a fauce-boat. Clermont, 201. N 2 To I