( 361 ) THE ART OF BREWING. HAVING given ample inftrutftions for the preparations of wines, &c. malt liquors fhould not be palled over unno- ticed, as the houfe-keeper cannot be faid to be complete in her bulinefs, without a competent knowledge in the Art of Brewing. Of Water proper for Brewing. To fpeak in general terms, the belt water for brewing is river water; fuch as is foft, and has partook of the air and fun; for this eafdy infinuates itfelf into the malt, and extracts its virtues* On the contrary, hard waters aftringe and bind the pores of the malt, and prevent the virtue of it from being freely communi- cated to the liquor. It is a rule adopted by many excellent brew- ers, that all water which will mix and lather with foap, is proper for brewing, and they wholly difapprove of any other. The ex- periment has been often tried, that where the fame quantity of malt has been ufed to a barrel of river water as to a barrel of fpring water, the former has excelled the latter in ftrength, in a degree almoft double. It may be neceffary to obferve likewife, that the malt was the fame in quality, as well as in quantity, for each barrel. The hops were the fame, both in quantity and quality, and the time of boiling was equal in each. They were worked in the fame manner, and tunned and kept in the fame cellar. Hence it is evident, that there could have been no dif- ference but in the water, and yet one barrel was worth almoft two of the other. But where foft water is not to be procured, that which is hard may be foftened, by expoling it to the air and fun, and putting into it fome pieces of foft chalk to infufe j or, before you begin to boil it, in order to be poured on the malt, put into it a quan- tity of bran, which will foften it a little. The necejfily of keeping the Fejfels clean. Obferve, the day before brewing, to have all your veffels very clean, and never ufe your tubs for any other ufe, except it be to make wines. Let your calks be well cleaned with boiling wa- ter j and, if your bung is large enough, ferub them well with a little