Of Fiji}. 228 hot, put in your fifh, a few at a time, fry them over a brifk fire. When you have fried them all, fet the tails one up againit another in the middle of the dilh ; then fry a large handful of parfley crifp, take it out before it lofes its colour, lay it round them} and parfley-fauce in a boat; or, if you like onions better, fry them, lay fome round your difii, and make onion-fauce for them ; or you may cut off the heads, after they are fried, chop them, and put them into a fauce-pan, with ale, pepper, fait, and an anchovy ; thicken it with flour and butter, (train it, then put it in a fauce-boat. Raffald,^3. Farley,59. Herrings with Mujlard faute. Gut and wipe the herrings very clean. Melt fome butter. Add chopped parfley, lhallots, green onions, pepper, and fait. Dip the herrings in this, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Then broil them, and ferve them with a fauce made of melted butter, flour, broth, a little vinegar, pepper, and fait. When ready to ferve, add muftard according to judgment. Clermont, 3 Sip. To bake Herrings. Having well cleaned your herrings, lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, and a good deal of fait; mix them together, then rub it all over the fifh, lay them ftraight in a pot, cover them writh allegar, tie ftrong paper over the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven. If your allegar is good, they will keep two or three months. You may eat them either hot or cold. So a Is with force-meat. Provide a pair of large foals, or three or four of a lefler fize, take the Ikin off from both Tides, and foak them in a marinade for an hour. Dry them upon a cloth, cut them down the middle, and wfith the point of your knife raife up the fillets. Make a little force-meat of the flefli of a couple of plaice or flounders, a morfel of fuet, feafon with a mufhroom or two, a green onion and parfley minced, pepper and fait, and nutmeg. Scrape a bit of bacon, and fry it very gently. Let it cool, and pound it well with a bit of bread well foaked, and a couple of eggs, taking away one white. Lift up the flelh of the foals, and croud in as much as you can. Brufh fome egg over them, and ftrew crumbs of bread, a little oil, or oiled butter, poured upon it. Bake them about half an hour, of a fine colour, and fend 'them up, garnifhed with fome little pats of your force-meat fried, and fome parfley. For your fauce, take a little fvvect bad, pimpernel, thyme, and parfley, a fhallot or two minced fine.