*53 Made DiJJjes of Poultry, &c. Bucks a-la-braze. Drefs and finge your ducks, lard them quite through with bacon rolled in (hired pardey, thyme, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper, and fait ; put in the bottom of a flew-pan a few dices of fat bacon, the fame of halh or gammon of bacon, two or three llices of veal or beef; lay your ducks in with the bread down, and cover the ducks with dices, the fame as-put under them ; cut in a carrot or two, a turnip, one oni’on, a head of celery, a blade of mace, four or five cloves, a little whole pepper ; cover them clofe down, and let them dimmer a little over a gentle bre till the bread is a light brown ; then put in fome broth or water, cover them as clofe down again as you can ; dew them gently between two or thr^e hours till enough ; then take pardey, onion, or fhallot, two anchovies, a few ger- kins or capers ; chop them all very bne, put them into a dew- pan with part of the liquor from the ducks, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon; boil it up, and cut the ends of the bacon even with the bread of your ducks, lay them on your didi, pour the fauce hot upon them, and ferve them up. Raf- falcl, 128. Farley, 118, Another way. Lard your duck, put a dice or two of beef at the bottom of the veflel, then the duck, a bit of bacon, and fome more beef diced, a carrot, an onion, a dice of lemon, whole pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs ; cover this clofe, fet it over the. hre a few minutes, fhake in fome dour, pour in near a quart of beef- broth or boiling water, a little red wine heated ; dew it about half an hour, drain the fauce, fkim it, put to it chyan, and more wine, if necedary, fhallot and tarragon chopped, a very little juice of lemon. If agreeable, add artichoke-bottoms, boiled and quartered. Mafon, 272. Macedonian Ducks. . ^',lt ,[?ur artirh°ke-bottoms, each into pieces, and put them into boiling water, with about a pint of garden beans, fird fcald- ec and hulked ; boil thefe together till almod done, then drain them, and put the whole into the dew-pan, with a good piece of outtcr, chopped mufhrooms, a little winter favoury^pardey, and lhallots.