Of Pies. 275 ftrain the liquor they were ftewed in. Seafon it with fait, and put into your pie; put on the lid, and bake it an hour and an. half. GlaJJ'e, 143. A Ham Pie. Bone the ham, and trim it properly; in the trimming, take care to cut off all the rufty fat or lean, till you come to the whole- fome- looking flefh. If an old ham, foak it twenty-four hours ; if frelh, fix or eight hours; then braze it with flices of beef, flices of bacon, fome butter, and hogs’-lard, a large faggot of fweet herbs, all forts of roots, and whole pepper; braze it till three parts done; then let it cool, and put it in a raifed pafte, with the liquid, and a gill of brandy ; bake it an hour, and ldt it cool before ufing. If it is to be ferved hot, Ikim off the fat very clean, and ferve with a relilhing cullis-fauce, without fait. Clermont, 401. Dalrymple, 332. A Hare Pie. Cut your hare in pieces, and feafon it well with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and mace; then put it in a jug with half a pound of butter ; cover it clofe up with a pafte or cloth, fet it in a copper of boiling water, and let it flew an hour and an half; then take it out to cool, and make a rich force-meat, of a quarter of a pound of fcraped bacon, two onions, a glafs of red wine, the crumb of a penny loaf, a little winter favoury, the liver cut fmall, a little nutmeg ; feafon it high with pepper and fait; mix it well up with the yolks of three eggs, raife the pie, and lay the force-meat in the bottom ; lay in the hare, with the gravy that came out of it; lay the lid on, and put flowers or leaves on it. Bake it an hour and an half. It is a very handfome fide-difli for a large table. Rajfald, 149. An Herb Pie for Lent. Take an equal quantity of fpinach, lettuce, leeks, beets,' and parfley, about an handful of each ; boil them, and chop them fmall. Have ready boiled in a cloth, a quart of groats, with two or three onions among them ; put them and the herbs into a frying-pan, with a pretty large quantity of fait, a pound of but- ter, and fome apples cut thin ; flew them a few minutes over the fire, fill your dilh or raifed cruft with it ; bake it an hour, and ferve it up. A Lobfer Pie. Boil two lobfters, and take the meat out of the fhells ; feafon them with pepper, mace, and nutmeg, beat fine ; bruife the bo- dies, and mix them with fome oyfters, if in feafon ; cut fine a T 2 frpall