73 Made Dijhes of Veal. Szveetbreads a-la-daub. Take three of the largeft and fineft fweetbreads you can get, put them in a fauce-pan of boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and when they are cold, lard them with a row down the middle, with very little pieces of bacon, then a row on each fide with lemon-peel, cut the fize of wheat draw; then a row on each fide of pickled cucumbers, cut very fine ; put them in a tofiing-pan, with good veal gravy, a little juice of lemon, a fpoonful of browning ; flew them gently a quarter of an hour; a little before they are ready, thicken them with flour and but- ter, difh {hem up, and pour the gravy over, lay rgund them bunches of boiled celery, or oyfter patties. Garnifh with dew- ed fpinach, green-coloured parfley, flick a bunch of barberries in the middle of each fweetbread. It is a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. Raffald, 98. To fry Sweetbreads. Cut them in long flices, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over them with a feather ; make a feafoning of pepper, fait, and grated bread ; dip them into it, and fry them in butter, -for fauce-—catchup and butter, with gravy or lemon-fauce. Garnifh with fmall flices of toafted bacon and crifped parfley. Loin of Veal in Epigram. Having roafted a fine loin of veal, take it up, and carefully take the ikin off the back part of it without breaking 5 cut Out all the lean meat, but mind and leave the ends whoTe, to hold the following mince-meats: mince all the meat very fine with the kidney part, put it into a little veal gravy, enough to moiften it, with the gravy that comes from the loin ; put in a little pep- per and fait, fome lemon-peel fhred fine, the yolks of three eggs, a fpoonful of catchup, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour; give it a {hake or two over the fire, and put it into the om, \ erj P'dl the fkin over. If the fkin lhould not quite cover it, give it a brown with a hot iron, or put it into an oven or a quarter of an hour. Send it up hot, and garnifh with bar- beriies and lemon. Mafon, 144. Glajj'e, 56. Farley, 106. Veal