247 Of Sauces. take out the meat, and ftrain your cullis through a {trainer. This cullis is for all forts of ragoos, fowls, pies, and terrines. Glajfei 108. A Cullis for Fijh. Gut a large pike, and lay it whole upon the gridiron ; turn it often. When done, take it off; take off the {kin, and take the meat from the bones ; boil fix hard eggs, and take out the yolks; blanch a few almonds, beat them to a pafte in a marble mortar, and then add the yolks of the eggs ; mix thefe well with butter, and put in the fifh; beat them all to mafh ; then take half a dozen onions, and cut them into fiices, two parfnips, three carrots; fet on a ftew-pan, put in a piece of butter to brown, and when it boils, put in the roots; turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little pea broth to moiften them. When they have boiled a few minutes, ftrain it into another fauce- pan ; put in a whole leek, fome parfley, and fweet bafil, half a dozen cloves, fome mufhrooms and truffles, and a few crumbs of bread; let it ftew gently a quarter of an hour, and then put in the fifh from the mortar; let it ftew fome time-longer; it muft not boil up, becaufe that would make it brown. When it is done, ftrain it through a coarfe iieve. It ferves to^hicken all made-dilhes, and foups for Lent. Ham Cullis. This is done with fiices of veal-fillet, and ham fufficient to give it a pretty ftrong tafte ; add all forts of roots; then add broth without fait, a glafs of white wine, a nofegay of thyme and parfley, halt a laurel-leaf, one clove of garlick, a few mulh- rooms, and fhallots. Dalrymple, 11. . A zvhite Cullis. Cut a piece of veal into fmall bits, take fome thin fiices of ham, and two onions cut into four pieces ; moiften it with broth, feafoned with mufhrooms, a bunch of parlley, green onions, and three cloves ; let it ftew. Being ftewed, take out all your meat and roots with a fkimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it ftew foftly ; take the white of a fowl, or two chickens, and pound it in a mortar ; when well pounded, mix it in your culiis, but it muft not boil, and your cullis muft be very white ; but il it is not white enough, you muft pound two dozen of iweet almonds blanched, and put into your cullis. Let it be of a good tafte, and ftrain it oft, then put it in a fmall kettle, and keep it warm, ifou may ufe it for white loaves, white Qruft of bread and bifcuits. GlaJJ'e, i io. R 4 • A Family