254 Elegant fmall Savoury Di/hes with good cream, and a lump of butter and fait; put them into fcollop (hells, make them fmooth on the top, fcore them with a knife, lay thin llices of butter on the top of them, put them in a Dutch oven to brown before the fire. Three (hells is fufficient for a difh. Rajfald, 287. To fry Chardoons. Cut them about fix inches long, and firing them, then boil them till tender. Take them out, have fome butter melted in your (lew-pan, flour them, and fry them brown. Send them in a difir, with melted butter in a cup. Or you may tie them up in bundles, and boil them like afparagus. Put a toad under them, and pour a little melted butter over them; or cut them into dice, and boil them like peas. Tofs them up in butter, and fend them up hot. Glajfe, 195. Chardoons a-la-Fromage. String them, cut them an inch long, (lew them in a little red wine till they are tender ; feafon with pepper and fait, and thick- en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then pour them into your dilh, fqueeze fome juice of orange over it, then fcrape Par- mefan or Chefhire cheefe all over them ; then brown it with a cheefe iron, and ferve it up quick and hot. To Jlew Pears. Take fix pears, pare them, and either quarter them or (lew them whole. Lay them in a deep earthen pan, with a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a gill of red wine, and a quarter of a pound of fine fugar. If the pears are very large, they will require half a pound of fugar, and half a pint of red wine. Co- ver them clofe with browm paper, and (lew them in an oven till they are enough. They may be ferved up hot or cold. They make a very pretty dilh with one whole, and the reft cut in quarters, and the cores taken out. Farley, 72. To Jlew Pears in a fauce-pan. Put them into a fauce-pan with the ingredients mentioned in the preceding article, cover them, and do them over a flow fire. When they are enough, take them off; add a pennyworth of cochineal bruifed very fine. To bake Pears. Pare them, cut them in halves, and core them ; then put them into an earthen pan with a few cloves, a little water and red wine, and about half a pound of fugar to fix pears; bake them in an oven moderately hot, then fet them over a (low fire; let