( 3*4 ) CANDYING AND DRYING. Before you attempt to candy any kind of fruit, it mull be firft preferved, and dried in a ftove, or before the fire, that none : of the fyrup may remain in it ; then boil your fugar to the j candy height, dip in your fruit, and lay them in dilhes in your ftove to dry. I hen put them in boxes for ufe, and keep them in places that are neither moift nor hot. To boil Sugar, candy height. Put a pound of fugar into a cleap tolling-pan, with half a pint of water, fet it over a very clear flow fire ; take off the , fcum as it rifes, boil it till it looks fine and clear, then take out ’ a little with a filver fpoon ; when it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your fpooil, it is boiled high enough for any kind of fweet-meat; then boil your fyrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. N. B. It is a great fault to put any kind of fweet-meats into too thick a fyrup, efpecially at 'the firft, for it withers your fruit, and takes off both the beauty and flavour. Raffald, 247. To candy Cajfia. Take as much of the powder of brown caflia as will lie upon twcr broad (hillings, with what muflc and ambergris you think proper. The caffip and' perfume muff be powdered together. Then take a quarter of a pound of fugar, and boil it to a candy- height ; then put in your powder and mix it well together, and pour it into pewter faucers or plates, which mull be buttered vyry thin, and when it.is cold it will flip out. The caflia is to be bought in London ; fometitnes it is in powder, and fome- times in a hard lump. GlaJJ'e, 373. To dry Greengages. Slit them down the feam, juft fcald them in a thin fyrup, with vine-leaves at the top ; put them by till the next day, keep- ing them under the fyijup ; then put them into a thick fyrup cold; fcald them gentlyln this, fet them by, repeat it the next day till they look clear; fet them by fora few days. If there is occafion, boil them once more ; take them from the fyrup, and dry them. When they are fet by in the fyrup, let it be in fomething rather narrow at the top, as they mult be covered, or they will be difcoloured. Mafun, 435. _ 1 Candied