342 Ornaments for grand Entertainments. cream round them, made thus: Take a pint of fpring-watcr* put to it the juice of three lemons, and the yellow rind of one lemon ; the whites of five eggs, well beaten, and four ounces of loaf-fugar • then fet it over a flow fire, and itir one way till it looks white and thick. If you let it boil it will curdle. Then ftrain it through a hair (ieve, and let it (land til1 it is cold; beat the yolks of five eggs, mix them with your whites, fet them over the fiie, and keep flirnng it till it is almoft ready to boil then pour it into a bafon. "When it is cold, pour it among your moon and ftars. Garnifh with flowers. It is a pioper dilh for a fecond courfe, either lor dinner or fupper. Raff aid, 201. Floating IJland of Apples. Bake or fcald eight or nine large apples; when cold, pare them, and pulp them through a fieve ; beat this up with fine fugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs that have beeij beaten, with a little rofe-water; mix it a little at a time, beat it till it is light; heap it on a rich cold cuflard, or on jelly. Ma~ Jon, 450. Floating IJland of Chocolate. Take the whites of two eggs, and mix them up with two ounces of chocolate fcraped ; pile it on a thin cuftar^ or jelly, A DeJ'ert IJland. Form a lump of pafte into a rock three inches broad at the top, then colour it, and fet it in the middle of a deep china difh. Set a caft figure on it, with a crown on its head, and a knot of rock- candy at its feet; then make a roll of pafte an inch thick, and flick it on the inner edge of the dilh, two parts round, Cut eight pieces of eringo roots, about three inches long, and fix them upright to the roll of pafte on the edge. Make gravel walks of (hot comfits round the difh, and fet fmall figures in them. Roll out fome pafte, and cut it open like Chinefe rails. Bake it, and fix it on either fide of the gravel walks with gum, and form an entrance where the Chinefe rails are, with two pieces of eringo root, for pillars. Farley, 351. A Floating IJland. Take a foup difh according to the fize and quantity you in- tend to make, but a pretty deep glafs is beft, and fet it on a china difh ; take a quart of thick cream, make it pretty fweet with fine fugar, pour in a gill of fack, grate the yellow rind of a lemon "in, and mill the cream till it is all of a thick froth ; then carefully pour the thin from the froth into a difh ; take a French