Of Roafting. 19 thru ft it through the body; put the fore leg on, and then the hind leg, and a fkewer through the top of the fhoulders and back part of the head, which will hold the head up. Make a pudding thus take a quarter of a pound of beef fuet, as much crumb of bread, a handful of parfley chopped fine, fome fweet herbs of all forts, fuch as bafil, marjoram, winter favory, and a little thyme, chopped fine ; a little nutmeg grated, fome lemon-peel cut fine, pepper and fait; chop the liver fine, and put in with two eggs ; mix it up, and put it into the belly, and few or fkewer it up ; then fpit it and lay it to the fire, which mull be a good one. A good fized hare takes an hour, and fo on in proportion. GJafJ'e, 7. - r * 1. 1 Another way to roajl a Hare. Skewer your hare with the head upon one fhoulder, the fore legs ftuck into the ribs, the hind legs double; make your pud- ding of the crumb of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef marrow or fuet, and a quarter of a pound of butter; flrred the liver, a fprig or two of winter favory, a little lemon-peel, one anchovy, a little chyan pepper, half a nutmeg grated ; mix them up in a light force-meat, with a glafs of red wine and two eggs ; put it into the belly of your hare, few it up, put a quart of good milk in your dripping-pan, bade your hare with it till it is re- duced to half a gill, then dull and bade it well with butter. If it be a large one, it will require an hour and an half roading. Raffaldy 69. Farley, 42. A Different forts of Sauce for a Hare. Take for fauce, a pint of cream, and half a pound of frefh butter ; put them in a faucepan, and keep dirring it with a fpoon till the butter is melted, and the fauce is thick; then take up the hare, and pour the fauce into the difh. Another way to maka fauce for a hare is, to make good gravy, thickened with a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and pour it into your difh. You may leave the butter out, if you do not like it, and have fome cur- rant jelly warmed in a cup, or red wine and fugar boiled to a fyrup, done thus : take a'pint of red wine, a quarter of a pound of fu- gar, and fet it over a flow fire to funnier for about a quarter of an hour. You may do half the quantity, and put it into your fauce-boat or bafon. C % To