4° 3 The Family Phyjician. ( the pit of the ftomach, ■which is fometimes attended “with anx- iety, naufea, and vomiting. Perions who are liable to this complaint ought to avoid ftale liquors, acids, windy or greafy aliments, and fhould never ufe violent exeicife foon alter a plentiful nieal. I know many per— fons who never fail to have the heart-burn if they ride loon af- ter dinner, provided they have drank ale, wine, or any feimented liquor; but are never troubled with it when they have drank rum or brandy and water without any fugar or acid. When the heart-burn proceeds from debility of the ftomach, or indigeftion, the patient ought to take a dofe or two of rhu- barb ; afterwards he may ufe infufions of the Peruvian bark, or any other of the ftomachic bitters, in wine or brandy. Exercife in the open air will likewife be of ufe, and every thing that pro- motes digellion. When bilious humours oecafion the heart-burn, a tea-fpoonful of the fweet fpirit of nitre in a glafs of water, or a cup of tea, will generally g ve eafe. If it proceeds from the ufe of greafy aliments, a dram of brandy or rum may be taken. if acidity or fournefs of the ftomach occafions the heart-burn, abforbents are the proper medicines In this cafe an ounce of powdered chalk, half an ounce of fine fugar, and a quarter of an ounce of gum-arabic, may be mixed in an Englilh quart of wa- ter, and a tea-cupful of it taken as often as is neceflary. Such as do not chufe cha'k may take a tea-fpoonful of prepared oyfter- ihells, or of the powder called crabs-eyes, in a glafs of cinna- mon or peppermint-water. But the fafeft and belt abforbent is magaefa alba. This not only ads as an abforbent, but likewife as a purgative; whereas chalk, and other abforbents of that kind, are apt to lie in the inteftinps, and oecafion obftrudions. This pow der is not difagreeable, and may be taken in a cup of tea, or a glafs of mint-water. A large tea-fpoonful is the ufual dofe; but it may be taken in a much greater quantity when there is oecafion. Thefe things are now generally made up into lozenges for the conveniency of being carried in the pocket, and taken at p'eafure. If wind be the caufe of this complaint, the mod proper me- dicines are thofe called carminatives; as annifeeds, juniper-ber- ries, ginger, canella alba, cardamom feeds, &c. T hefe may either be chewed, or infufed in wine, brandy, or other fpirits. One of the fafeft medicines of this kind is the tindure made by -nfufing an ounce of rhubarb, and a quarter of an ounce of the rcifer cardamom feeds, in an Englilh pint of brandy. After this