'Turtles and Mock Turtles. 187 in a bit of linen three or four onions, fome bits of can ot, a leek, 1 fome herbs and parfley, with two or three pinches of chyan, and let it boil with the meat, and fait according to your talte. Let it fimmer an hour, or a little more, and fend it up in a tureen or foup-difh, only the meat and the broth. Thefe feven dirties make a pretty firft courfe ; the callapalh and callapee at top and bottom, foup in the middle, and the other four the corners. Verral, 235. T9 drefs a Mock Turtle. Take the largeft calf’s head you can get, with the fkin on, put it in fcalding water till you find the hair will come off, clean it well, and wafh it in warm water, and boil it three quarters of an hour. Then take it out of the water, and flit it down the face, cut off all the meat along with the fkin as clean from the bone as you can, and be careful you do not break the ears off. Lay it on a flat difh, and fluff the ears with forcemeat, and tie them round with cloths. Take the eyes out, and pick all the reft of the meat clean from the bone, put it in a toffing- pan, with the niceft and fatteft part of another calf’s head, with- out the fkin on, boiled as long as the above, and three quarts of veal gravy. Lay the (kin in the pan on the meat, with the flefh- fide up, cover the pan clofe, and let it flew over a moderate fire one hour; then put in three fweetbreads, fried a little brown, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, five artichoke bottoms boiled, one anchovy boned and chopped fmall, a tea fpoonful of chyan pepper, a little fait, half a lemon, three pints of Madeira wine, two meat-fpoonfuls of mufhroom catchup, one of lemon- pickle, and half a pint of mufhrooms. Let them flew flowly half an hour longer, and thicken it with flour and butter. Have ready the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brains of both heads boiled; cut the brains the fize of nutmegs, and make a rich force-meat, and fpread it on the caul of a leg of veal, roll it up, and boil it in a cloth one hour. When boiled, cut it in three parts, the middle largeft \ then take up the meat into the dilh, and lay the head over it with the fkin fide up, and put the largeft piece of forcemeat between the ears, and make the top of the ears to meet round it, (this is called the crown of the turtle) lay the other dices of the forcemeat oppolite to each other at the narrow end, and lay a few of the truffles, morels, brains, mufh- rooms, eggs, and artichoke bottoms upon the face, and round it;