The Family Thyjician* 37* The Afthma. The paroxyfm of an afthma I muft leave to the phyfician; but as a palliative, nothing is of fo great importance in the afthma, as pure and moderately warm air. Afthmatic people can feldom bear either the clofe heavy air of a large town, or the (harp, keen atmofphere of a bleak hilly country; a medium, therefore, between thefe is to be chofen. The air near a large town is often better than at a diftance, provided the patient be removed fo far as not to beaffedted by the Imoke. Some afthma- tic patients indeed breathe eafter in town than in the country ; but this is feldom the cafe, efpecially in towns where much coal is burnt. Afthmatic perfons who are obliged to be in town all day ought, at leaft, to deep out of it. Even this will often prove of great lervice. Thofe who can afford it, ought to travel into a warmer climate. Many afthmatic perfons who cannot live in England, enjoy very good health in the fouth of France, Portu- gal, Spain, or Italy. < Exercife is likewife of very great importance in the afthma, as it promotes the digeftion, preparation of the blood, See. The blood of afthmatic perfons is feldom duly prepared, owing to the proper adlion of the lungs being impeded. For this reafon, fuch people ought daily to take as much exercife, either on. foot, horfeback, or in a carriage, as they can bear. Buthan. Dr. Mead's Brefcription for the Bite of a Mad Dog. Take afti-coloured ground liver-wort, cleaned, dried,, and powdered, half an ounce; of black pepper, powdered, a quar- ter of an ounce. Mix thefe well together, and divide the powdet into four dofes; one of which muft be taken every morning falling, for four mornings fucceffively, in hall an Englifh pint of cow’s milk, warm. After thefe four dofes are taken, the patient muft go into a cold bath, or cold fpring or river, every morning farting, for a month; he muft be dipped all over, but not ftay in (with his head above water) longer than half a minute, if the water be very cold. After this, he muft go in three times a-week for a fort- night longer. The perfon muft be bled before he begins to ufe the medi- cine. Dr. Mead, arterts, that he never knew this remedy fail, although he has tried it in a thoufand inftances. But Dr. Bii* chan, and fomc others, fufpedt the Doctor's veracity in this par- ticular. Bba Burns.