Of Cakes. 3ii in a pound of flour, with a little rofe-water. Sugar them over, and bake them in tins, or on papers. French Bifcuits. Having a pair of clean fcales ready, in one fcale put three new-laid eggs, in the other fcale as much dried flour, an equal weight with the eggs; take out the flour, and as much fine powdered fugar; firit beat the whites of the eggs up well with the whifk, till they are of a fine froth; then whip in half an ounce of candied lemon-peel cut very thin and fine, and beat .well; then, by degrees, whip in the flour and fugar, then flip in the yolks, and with a l'poon temper it well together ; then lhape your bifcuits on fine white paper with your fpoon, and throw powdered fugar over them. Bake them in a moderate oven, not too hot, giving them a fine colour on the top. When they are baked, with a fine knife cut them off from the paper, and lay them in boxes for ufe. Glaffe, 285. Savoy Bifcuits. Beat the whites of eight eggs till they are a ftrong froth, then put it to the yolks, with a pound of fugar , beat them altogether a quarter of an hour. When the oven is ready, put in one pound of fine flour to the other ingredients ; ftir it till it is well mixed ; lay the bifcuits upon the paper, and ice them. Let the oven be hot enough to bake them quick. Drop BifcuiL Beat the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of fix, with one fpoonful of rofe-water, half an hour, thep put in ten ounces of loaf fugar beat and fitted ; whifk them well for half an hour, then add one ounce of carraway-feeds crufhed a little, and fix ounces of fine flour; whifk in your flour gently, drop them on wafer-papers, and bake them in a moderate oven. Raffaldy 276. Almond Puffs. Take two ounces of fweet almonds, blanch them, and beat them very fine, with orange-flower water ; beat the w'hites of three eggs*to a very high froth, and then flrew in a little fifted fugar. Mix your almonds with your fugar and eggs, and then .•add more fugar till it is as thick as pafle. Lay it in cakes, and bake it in a cool oven, on paper. Farley, 289. Sugar Puffs. Beat the w'hites of ten eggs till they rife to a high froth, put them into a ffone mo>tar, or wooden bowl, add as much double* refined fugar as will make them thick ; put in a little ambergris to