3 7 8 The Family Vhyfician. and the fpittle is vifcid and tough, (harp pe&oral medicines are to be adminidered ; as gum ammoniac, fquills, &c.' Two table fpoonfuls of the folution of gum ammoniac may be taken three or four times a day, more or lefs, according to the age or con- ditution of the patient. Squills may be given various ways; two ounces of vinegar, the oxymel, or the fyrup, may be mixed with the fame quantity of limple cinnamon water ; to which jipay be added an ounce of common water, and an ounce of bal- famic fyrup. Two table fpoonfuls of this mixture may be taken three or four times a day. A fyrup made of equal parts of lemon-juice, honey, and fu- gar-candy, is likewife very proper in this kind of cough. A ta- ble fpoonful of it may be taken at pleafure. In obdinate coughs, proceeding from a flux of humours upon the lungs, it will often be neceflary, belides expt&orating medi- cines, to have recourfe to ilfues, fetons, or fome other drain. In this cafe I have often obferved the mod; happy effects from a Burgqndy pitch plafler applied between the ihoulders. I have ordered this Ample remedy in the mod obdinate coughs, in a great number of cafes, and in many different conftitutionS, with- out ever knowing it fail to give relief, unlefs there were evident figns of an ulcer in the lungs. But coughs proceed from many other caufes befldes defluxions upon the lungs. In thefe cafes the cure is not to be attempted by pe£toral medicines. Thus, in a cough proceeding from a foul- nefs and debility of the flomach, fyrups, oils, mucilages, and all kinds of balfamic medicines do hurt. "1 he Jicmach cough may be known from one that is owing ro a fault in the lungs by this —that in the latter, the patient coughs whenever he inlpires, or draws in his breath fully ; but in the former, that does not hap- pen. TiJJot. Buchan. Chambers. The Cramp. Cramps are often prevented or cured by compreflion. Thus cramps in the legs are prevented, and fometimes removed, by tight bandages ; and when convullions arife from a flatulent de- tention of the intedines, or from fpafms beginning in them, they may be often lelfened or cured, by making a pretty drong com- prefTion upon the abdomen, by means of a broad belt. A roll of brimdone held in the hands is frequently ufed as a remedy for cramps. Though this feems to owe its effefts chiefly to imagination, yet, as it fometimes fucceeds, it merits a trial. When fpafms or convulsive motions arife from fharp humours in the ilomach and intedines, no lading relief can be procured