3^4 *the Family Fhyfician. children are fond of fyrups and jellies, and feldom refufe even A difagreeable medicine when mixed with them. -The garlic ointment is a well-known remedy in North Bri- tain for the chin-cough. It is made by beating in a mortar, garlic with an equal quantity of hogs’-lard, With this the foies of the feet may be rubbed twice or thrice a day ; but the bed me- thod is to fpread it upon a rag, and apply it in the form of a plader. It fhould be renewed every night and morning at lead, tas the garlic foon lofes its virtue. This is an exceeding good medicine, both in the chin-cough, and in mod other coughs of an obdinate nature. It ought not, however, to be ufed when the patient is very hot and feverifh, led it fliould increafe thefe fymptoms. The feet fhould be bathed once in every two or three days in lukewarm water ; and a Burgundy-pitch plader kept condantly between the fhoulders. But when the difeafe proves very vio- lent, it will be neceffary, indead of it, to apply a blidering- plader, and keep the part open for fome time with iffue oint- ment. When the difeafe is prolonged, and the patient is free from a fever, the Peruvian bark, and other bitters, are the mod proper medicines. The bark may be either taken in fubdance, or in a deco&ion or infufion, as is mod agreeable. For a child, ten, fifteen, or twenty grains, according to the age of the patient, may be given three or four times a day. For an adult, half d. drachm, or two fcruples, will be proper. Some give the extradl of the bark with cantharides ; but to manage this, requires a confiderable attention. It is more fafe to give a few grains of cador along with the bark. A child of fix or feven years of age may take feven or eight grains of cador, with fifteen grains of powdered bark, for a dofe. This may be made into a mix- ture with two or three ounces of fimple-didilled water, and a little fyrup, and taken three or four times a day. Buchan. Chambers. The Jaundice. This difeafe is fird obfervable in the white of the eye, which appears yellow. Afterwards the whole fkin puts on a yellow ap- pearance. The urine too is of a faffron colour, and dyes a white cloth of the fame colour. There is likewife a fpecies of this difeafe called the black jaundice. If the patient be young, and the difeafe complicated with no other malady, it is feldom dangerous ; but in old people, where jt continues one, returns frequently, or is complicated with the dropfy,