*9° Of Soups. the fize of walnuts ; flice in the meat of a fhank of ham, with three or four blades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfnips, two large onions, with a clove ftuclc in at each end. Cut in four or five heads of celery wafhed clean, a bunch of fweet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an anchovy. Cover the pan clofe, and fet it over a flow fire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat; then pour the gravy into a pot or bafon; let the meat brown in the fame pan, and take care it does not burn. Then pour in four quarts of water, let it boil gently till it is wafted to three pints. Then ftrain it, and put the gravy to it; fet it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the niceft part of a head of celery, chyan pepper, and fait to your tafte, and let it boil for four minutes. If not a good colour, put in a lit- tle browning, lay a fmall French roll in the foup-difh, pour in the foup upon it, and lay fome of the vermicelli over it. Majon, I97. Rajfald, 4. Farley, 155. Another way. Take three quarts of the broth, and fome of the gravy mixed together, a quarter of a pound of vermicelli blanched in two quartsTf water ; put it into the foup, boil it up for ten minutes, and feafomwith fait, if it wants any. Put it in your tureen, with the cruft of a French roll baked. Glajfe, 126. Vermicelli Soup} with Meat or Fijh. For a middling difh, take about a quarter of a pound of ver- micelli, which you fcald a moment in boiling water; then drain it, and boil in good broth or gravy, and a bit of bacon. When boiled tender, take out the bacon, fe&fon it with fait, and fkim off the fat very clean ; it muft be ferved of a middling confid- ence. If you would make it of a crawfifh cullis, or any other, you will only mix it a moment before you ferve. If it is for meagre, fcald your vermicelli as above, and boil it with fifh broth and butter; adding a liafon of yolks of eggs made with the fame broth and gravy. Dalrymple, 29. Hare Soup. This being a rich foup, it is proper for a large entertainment, and may be placed at the bottom of the table, where two foups are required, and almond or onion foup be at the top. Hare foup