Of Puddings. a'59 tea-fpoonful of fait, two of beaten ginger, and two of the tinc- ture of faffron. Then mix all together, and boil it an hour, jFarley, 200, from Glaffc, 219. Another. A pint of milk, four eggs, four fpoonfuls of flour, half a grated nutmeg, and a little fait; tie the cloth very clofe, and boil it three quarters of an hour. Sauce, melted butter. A Bread Pudding. Slice all the crumb of a penny-loaf thin into a quart of milk, Tet it over a chafing-difh of coals till the bread has foaked up all the milk, then put in a piece of butter, ftir it round, and let it (land till cool. Or you may boil your milk and pour over your bread, and cover it up clofe ; this method is a^good as the other. Then take the yolks of fix eggs, and half the whites,' and beat them up with a little rofe-water and nutmeg, and 3 little fait and fugar, if you like it. Mix all well together, and boil it an hour. GlaJJ'e, 220. Farley, 192. A nice Bread Pudding. Take half a pint of milk, boil it with a bit of cinnamon, four eggs, and the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of fuet chopped fine, and as much bread as' may be thought requifite. Pour your milk on the bread and fuet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, eggs, a little fugar, and fome nutmeg grated fine'. This pudding may be either boiled or baked.. Raffald, 173. A Calfs-Foot Pudding. Boil four feet tender; pick' the niceft of the meat from the bones, and chop it very fine; add the crumb of a penny-loaf grated, a pound of beef-fuet fhred fmall, half a pint of cream, feven eggs, a pound of currants, four ounces of citron cut fmall, two ounces of candied orange-peel cut like ftraws, a nutmeg, and a large glafs of brandy. Butter the cloth and flour it, tie it clofe, let it boil three hours. Mafon, 370. Mrs. Raffald, page 172, gives the fame receipt, with this addition: “ When you take the pudding up, it is belt to put “ it in a bowl that will juft hold it, and let it (land a quarter of an hour belore you turn it out; lay your dilh upon the top of “ the bafon, and turn it upfide down.” A Carrot Pudding. Scrape a raw carrot very clean, and grate it. Take half a pound of the grated carrot, and a pound of grated bread ; beat up eight eggs, leaving out half the whites, and mix the eggs with S2 half