224 Of Fijh. whole onion, a nutmeg bruifed, a bundle of fwcet herbs and parlley, a little lemon-peel ; put to it three large fpoonfuls of vinegar, a pint of white wine, and a quarter of a pound of firefh butter rolled in flour. Cover it clofe, and let it fimmer over a flow fire for a quarter of an hour, then carefully take up your falmon, and lay it in your di(h ; fet it over hot water and cover it. In the mean time, let your fauce boil till it is thick and good. Take out the fpice, onion, and fweet herbs, and pour it over the fi(h. Garnilh with lemon. GlaJJ'e, 178. Mrs. Mufon, page 216, has the fame receipt, differently ex- preffed. To drefs Sturgeon. Wafh your fturgeon clean, lay it all night in fait and wa- ter. The next morning take it out, rub it well with alle- gar, ’and let it lie in it for two hours. Then have ready a fifh- kettle full of boiling water, wdth an ounce of bay-falt, two large onions, and a few fprigs of fweet marjoram. Boil your ftur- geon till the bones will leave the fifh, then take it up, take the fkin off, and flour it well ; fet it before the fire, bafte it with frefh butter, and let it ftand till it is of a fine brown. Then difh it up, and pour into the dilh what fauce you think pro- per. Garnifh with crifp parfiey and red pickles. This is a proper dilh for the top or middle. Rajfald, 29. Farley, 29. » Sturgeon broiled. Take your fturgeon, flew it in as much liquid as will flew it, being half fifh-broth or water, and half white wine, with a little vinegar, diced roots, onions, fweet herbs, whole pepper, and fait. When done, ferve upon a napkin. Garnifh with green parfley, and ferve with what fauces you pleafe in fauce-boats, Ikch as capers, anchovies, &c. Clermont, 365. Sturgeon Mayence fafbion, or a-la-Mayence^ Take a piece of fturgeon, of what fize you think proper, and lard it with Weftphalia ham, fat and lean cut together. Wrap it in paper and roaft it, bafting it with butter. Make a fauce as follows:—Put in a ftew-pan a few flices of ham and veal, lliced carrots, onions, parfley roots, fhallots, and three clov'es. Soak it on the fire till it begins to catch at bottom, then add a little cullis, half a pint of white wine, fome rvhole pepper and a little fait. Reduce it to a proper confidence, then fkim and drain it. When done, add the juice tf half a lemon, and ferve it upon the fturgeon. This