Of Roajling. 4 Another , rai^e^> or paper put on. You fhould always obferve to ball'* your meat as Toon as you lay it down to roaft ; fprinkle fome lalt on, and, when near done, dredge it with a little flour to froth it up. Garnilh mutton with horfe-radifh ; lamb with creiles, or fmall falading. A leg of mutton of fix pounds will take an hour and a quar- ter; of twelve pounds, two hours; a fmall faddle, an hour and an half; a large one, near three hours. Paper a faddle. If gar- lic is not difliked, fhifF the knuckle part of the leg with two or three cloves of it ; a breaft will take half an hour at a brifk fire; a large neck, an hour ; a fmall one, a little more than half an hour ; a ihoulder near as much time as a leg. For fauce—pota- toes, pickles, falad, celery raw or Hewed, broccoli, French beans, cauliflower; or, to a Ihoulder of mutton, onion fauce. Majon, 161. To roaft a Haunch of Mutton, Venifon fafoion. .To drefs a haunch of mutton, venifon falhion, take a hind fat quarter of mutton, and cut the leg like a haunch. Lay it in a pan, with the back fide of it down, and pour a bottle of red wine over it, in which let it lay twenty-four hours. Spit it, and .roaft it at a good quick fire, and keep bailing it all the time with the famy liquor and butter. It will require an hour and an half roalling; and, \vhen it is done, fend it up with a little good gravy in one boat, and fweet fauce in another. A good fat tteck of mutton done in- this manner is elleemed delicate eating. Farley, 34. Another way. Cut a hind quarter of fat mutton like a haunch of venifon ; let it lleep in the Iheep’s blood for five or fix hours ; then let it hang, in cold dry weather, for three weeks, or as long as it will keep fweet; rub it well with a cloth, then rub it over with frelh butter ; drew fome fait over it, and a little flour ; butter a- Iheet of paper, and lay over it, and another over that, or fome pafte, and tie it round. If it is large, it will take two hours and an half roalling. Before it is taken up, take off the paper, or pafte, bade it well with butter, and flour it. Let the jack go round very quick, that it may have a good froth. Sauce—gravy and currant jelly. Majon, i6x.