Of Collaring. goo 9 0 OI To collar a Brcajl of Mutton. Bone your bread of mutton, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg; grate over it a little lemon-peel and a nutmeg, with a little pepper and fait ; then chop fmall one tea-cupful of capers, and two anchovies ; (hred fine a handful of parfley, and a few jweet herbs. Mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, and flrew it over your mutton, and roll it up tight; boil it two hours, then take it up, and put it into a pickle like that for the calf’s head. Mock Brawn. Boil four ox-feet very tender, and pick the flefli entirely from the bones; take the belly piece of pork, boil it till it is almoll enough, then bone it, and roll the meat of the feet up in the pork very tight ; then take a ftrong cloth, with fome coarfe tape, and roll it round very tight ; tie it up in the cloth, boil it till it is fo tender that a draw may be run through it. Let it be hung up in the cloth till it is quite cold ; after which, put it into cold fait and water, and it will be fit for ufe. Mafon, 179. To collar Salmon. Take a fide of falmon, cut off an handful of the tail, wafh your large piece very well, dry it with a clean cloth, wafii it over with the yolks of eggs, and then make force-meat with what you cut off the tail. But take off the fkin, and put to it a hand!ul of parboiled oyfters, a tail or two of lobfters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, fix anchovies, an handful of fweet herbs chopped fmall, a little fait, cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper beat fine, and grated bread. Work all thefe together into a body, with the yolks of eggs ; lay it all over the flefhy part,. and a little more pepper and fait over the falmon ; fo roll it up into a collar, and bind it with broad tape, then boil it in water, fait, and vinegar, but let the liquor boil firft ; then put in your collars, a bunch of fweet herbs, fliced ginger, and nutmeg ; let it boil, but not too fait. It will take near two hours boiling. When it is enough, take it up into your foucing pan, and when the pickle is cold, put.it to your falmon, and let it ftand in it till ufed, or otherwife you may pot it. Fill it up with clarified but- ter, as you pot fowls. That way will keep longcft. GlaJJ'c, 2j5, and 262. To collar Eds. Cafe your eel, cut off the head, flit open the belly, take out the ruts, cut off the fins, take out the bones, lay it flat on the back! urate over it a fmall nutmeg ; add two or three blades