i6z Made Difoes of Poultry, &c. onions; feafon the pigeons with pepper, fait, fome fjpice beat fine, and fome fweet herbs; lay them into the ftew-pan, then lay upon them fome more dices of veal and bacon ; let them flew very gently over a dove, the top of the ftew-pan put down very' clofe. When they are ftewed, make a ragoo with veal fweet- breads, truffles, morels, champignons ; the fweet-breads muft be blanched, and put into a ftew-pan with a ladleful of gravy, a lit- tle cullis, the truffles, morels, &c. Let them all flew together with the pigeons. When they are enough, put them into a difh, and pour the ragoo over them. Apupton of Pigeons. Take favoury force-meat, rolled out like a pafte, put it in a butter difh, lay a layer of very thin bacon, fquab pigeons, diced fweetbread, afparagus tops, mufhrooms, cocks’ combs, a palate boiled tender and cut in pieces, and the yolks of hard eggs. Make another force-meat and lay over like a pie ; bake it, and . ‘ when enough, turn it into a difh, and pour gravy round it. Glajfe, 91. Farley, 127. Pigeons in Pimlico. Take the livers, with fome fat and lean' of ham or bacdh, mufhrooms, truffles, pardey, and fweet herbs ; feafon with beaten mace, pepper, and fait; beat all this together, with two raw eggs, put it into the bellies, roll them all in a thin dice of veal, over them a thin dice of bacon ; wrap them up in white paper, fpit them on a fmall fpit, and roaft them. In the mean time make for them a ragoo of truffles and mudirooms, chopped fmall, with pardey cut fmall; put to it half a pint of good veal gravy, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. An hour will do your pigeons. Bade them. When enough, lay them in your difh, take off the paper, and pour your fauce over them. Garnifh with patties made thus:—Take veal and cold ham, beef fuet, an equal quantity, fome mulhrooms, fweet herbs, and fpice ; chop them fmall, fet them on the fire, and moiften with milk or cream ; then make a little puff-pafte, roll it, and make little patties about an inch deep and two inches long; fill them with the above ingredients, cover them clofe, and bake them ; lay fix of them round a difh. This makes a fine difh for a firft eourfc. Glajfe, 93. Pigeons