222 Of Fijh. J it fine, with two anchovies, fome lemon-peel cut fine, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, with fome parfley and thyme cut fine, a yolk of an egg boiled hard. Mix them all together, and roll them up. in a piece of butter ; then take a large piece of fine fal- mon, ora falmon-trout, put the force-meat into the belly of the filh, few it up, and lay it in an oval ftew-pan that will juft hold it; then take half a pound of frefh butter, put it into a ftew- pan. When it is melted, lhake in a little flour ; ftir it till it is a little brown, then put to it a pint of fill) broth, with a pint of Madeira. Seafon it with fait, mace, cloves, and whole pepper tied in a muflin rag; put in an onion and a bunch of fweet herbs. Stir it all together, and put it to the fifh. Cover it jj down very clofe, and let it flew. When the fifh is almoft done, put in fome frefh or pickled mufhrooms, truffles, or morels, cut in pieces ; let them (lew all together till the fifh is quite done. Take the falmon up carefully, lay it in a difh, and pour the fauce over it. Mafon, 215. To roll Salmon. Take a fide of falmon, when fplit and the bone taken out and fealded, ftrew over the infide pepper, fait, nutmeg, and mace, a few chopped oyfters, parfley, and crumbs of bread, roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven ; make the common fifh fauce and pour over it. Garnifh with fennel, lemon, and horfe-radifh. Raffald, 24, from Mafon, 215. To broil Salmon. Cut your frefh falmon into thick pieces, and flour and broil them. Lay them in your difh, and ferve them up with plain melted butter in a boat. Farley, 51. Salmon in Cafes. Cut your falmon into fmall pieces, fuch as will lay rolled in half fheets of paper. Seafon it with pepper, fait, and nutmeg; butter the infide of the paper well, fold the paper fo as nothing can come out, then lay them in a tin plate to be baked, pour a little melted butter over the papers, and then crumbs of bread over them. Do not let your oven be too hot, for fear of burn- ing the paper* A tin oven before the fire does beft. When you think they are enough, ferve them up juft as they are. There will be fauce enough in the papers ; or put the falmon in buttered papers only, and broil them. Glajfe, 183. Salmon with Shrimp fauce, Of a falmon the jowl is preferred to any other part ; notch it to the bone on both fides about an inch apart, lay it ih a ma- c rinaae*