310 *0/ Cakes. flour, a pound of butter, e'ight eggs, half a pound of currants . walhed and picked ; grate a nutmeg, and the fame quantity of mace and cinnamon. Work your butter to a cream, and put in your fugar; beat the whites of your eggs near half an hour, and mix them with your fugar and butter. Then beat your yolks near half an hour, and put them to your butter. Beat them ex- ceedingly well together, and when it is ready for the oven, put in your flour, Ipices, and currants. Sift a little fugar over them, and bake them in tins. Farley, 303. Shrewjbury Cakes. Take half a pound of butter, beat it to a cream, then put in half a pound of flour, one egg, fix ounces of loaf-fugar, beat and flfted, half an ouree cf carraway-feeds mixed into a pafte; roll them thin, and cut them round with a fmall glafs, or little tins; prick them, and lay them on Iheets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. Raffald, 270. Bath Cakes. Take half a pound of butter, and rub it into a pound of flour; add one fpoonful of good barm, warm fome cream, and make it a light pafte, and fet it to the fire to rife. When you make them up, take four ounces of carrawav-comfits, work part of them in, and ftrew the reft on the top. Make them into a round cake, about the fize of a French roll, bake them on fheet tins, and fend them in hot for break fa ft. Little Fine Cakes. Take one pound of butter beaten to a cream, a pound and a quarter of flour, a pound of fine fugar beat fine, a pound of cur- rants clean walhed and picked, fix eggs, two whites left out; beat them fine, mix the flour, fugar, and eggs, by degrees info the batter, beat it all well with both hands. Either make it in- to little cakes, or bake it in one. Orange Cakes. Take what quantity you pleafe of Seville-oranges that have good rinds, quarter them, and boil them in two or three waters till they are tender, and die bitternefs is gone off. Skin them and then lay them on a clean napkin to dry. Take all the Ikins and feeds out of the pulp with a knife, fhred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine fugar into a tolling pan, with juft as much water as will dilfolve it. Boil it till it becomes a perfect fugar, and then by degrees put in your orange-peels and pulp. Stir them well before you fet them on the fire; boil it very gently till it looks