Of Roafting* 20 T'o roajl Rabbits. They will take twenty minutes, or half an hour, according to the fize; hold their heads for a few minutes in boiling wate^ before they are laid down. For fauce—parfley and butter, with the liver parboiled and fhred; but they are befl fluffed with chopped fuet, the liver part boiled and bruifed, bread crumbs, grated bread, and a little lemon-peel; chopped parfley and fweet herbs, yolk of egg mixed, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; gravy in the difh. Mafon, 293. Another way to roaft Rabbits. Cafe your rabbits, fkewer their heads with their mouths upon their backs, flick their fore legs into their ribs, and fkewer their hind legs double. Break half a penny loaf into crumbs, a littlo parfley, thyme, fweet marjoram, and lemon-peel. Shred all thefe fine, and feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Mix them up into a light fluffing, with two eggs, a little cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Put it into their bellies, few them up, and dredge and bafte them well with butter. Take them up when they have roafted an hour; chop the livers, and lay them in lumps round the edge of your difh. Serve them up with parlley and butter for fauce.. Farley, 42. Raffald, 68. To roaft a Rabbit, Hare fafJoion. Lard a rabbit with bacon, roafl it as you do a hare, with a fluffing in the belly, and it eats very well. But then you muft make gravy fauce. But if you do not lard it, white fauce made thus:—take a little veal broth, boil it up with a little flour and butter to thicken it ; then add a gill of cream ; keep it flirring one way till it is fmooth, then put it in a boat, or in the difh. GlaJJe, 11. Feafon, 294. To roaft Lobfters. Put a fkewer into the vent of the tail of the lobfler, to prevent the water getting into the body of it, and put it into a pan of boiling water, with a little fait in it; and if it be a large one, it will take half an hour boiling. Then lay it before the fire, and baflc it with butter till it has a fine froth. Difh it up with plain melted