The Family Thy ft clan. 4°1 are commonly reckoned a fign of worms, quite removed by giv- incr them white foap in their pottage, or other food. Tanfy, garlic, and rne, are all good againtt worms, and may be ufed various ways. I m ght have mentioned many o her plants, both for external and internal ufe, as the cabbage-ba>k, &cc. but think the powder ot tin, with Ethiops mineral, and the purges of rhubarb and calomel, are more to be depended on. Ball’s purging vermituge powder is a very powerful medicine. It is made of equal parts ot rhubarb, fcammony, and calomel, with as much double refined fugar as is equal to the weight of all the other ingredients. Xhelc mud be well mixed together, and reduced to a fine powder. The dofe tor a child, is from ten grains to twrenty, once or twice a week. An adult may take a drachm for a dofe. Parents who w'ould preferve their children from worms ought to allow them plenty of exercife in the open air; to take care that their food be wholefome and fufficiently folid; and, as far as poffible, to prevent their eating raw herbs, roots, or green trathy fruits. It will not be amifs to allow a child who is fub- je£t to worms, a glafs of red wine after meals; as every thing that braces and ftrengthens the ftomach is good both for prevent- ing and expelling thefe vermin. Ball. Buchan. Of Vomiting. Vomiting may proceed from various caufes ; as excefs in eat- ing and drinking ; foulnefs of the ftomach ; the acrimony of the aliments \ a tranflation of the morbific matter of ulcers, of the gout, the eryfipelas, or other difeafes of the ftomach. It may likewife proceed. from a loofenefs having been too fuddenly flopped \ from the ftoppage of any cuftomary evacuation, as the bleeding piles, the menfes, &c. from a weaknefs of the ftomach, the colic, the iliac paftion, a rupture, a fit of the gravel, worms, or from any kind of poifon taken into the ftomach. It is an. ufual fymptom of injuries done to the brain; as contufions, compreffions, &c. Vomiting may be occafioned by unufual motions ; as failing, being drawn backwards in a cart or coach, &c. It may like- wife be excited by violent paftions, or by the idea of naufeous or difagreeable objects, efpecially of fuch things as have for- merly produced vomiting. Sometimes it proceeds from a re- gurgitation of the bile into the ftomach \ in this cafe, what the: patient vomits is generally of a yellow or greenilh colour, and has a bilter tafte. Perfons who are fubjedt to nervous affections Dd are