Pojfets, Gruels, White-pots, iAc. 347 Barley Gruel. Put a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, and a ftick of cin- namon, into two quarts of water, aud let it boil till it is reduced to one quart; add a pint of red wine, and fugar to your taflc. You may add two or three ounces of currants. Sago. To three quarters of a pint of water, put a large fpoonful of fago, dir it, and boil it foftly till it is as thick as you would have it; then put in wine and fugar, with a little nutmeg to your palate. Rice Milk. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of water, with a little cin- namon ; let it boil till the water is waded, but take care it does not burn ; then add three pints of milk, and the yolk of an egg beat up ; keep it dirring. When it boils, take it up and fwcetea it. Majon, 452. Barley Water. Put a quarter of a pound of pearl barley into two quarts of water, let it boil, fkim it very clean, boil half away, and (train it off. Sweeten to your palate, but not too fweet, and put in two fpoonfuls of white wine. Drink it a little warm. GlaJJe, 245. Farley, 427. Another way. Boil two ounces pf barley in two quarts of water till it looks white, and the barley grows foft, then drain the water from the barley, and add to it a little currant jelly or lemon. N. B. You may put a pint more water to your barley, and boil it over again. Rafjala314. Capillaire. Take fourteen pounds of loaf-fugar, three pounds of coarfe fugar, fix eggs beat in with the (hells, and three quarts of wa- ter ; boil it up twice, (kirn it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange flower water ; drain it through a jelly-bag, and put it into bottles. When cold, mix a fpoonful or two of this fyrup, as it is liked for iweetnefs, in a draught of warm or cold water. Majon, 454. Orgeat. Take two pounds of almonds, thirty bitter, and beat them to a pade; mix it with three quarts of water, and drain it through a fine cloth ; add orange and lemon-juice, with fome of the peel; fweeten to your palate. Lemnads. 1