3^6 The Art of Brewing* copper of ale-wort were. The reft for finall beer may be all cold water put over the grains at once, or at twice, and boiled an hour each copper, with the hops that have been boiled be- fore. But here 1 muff obferve, that fometimes I have not an opportunity to get hot water for making all my fecond copper ot wort, which obliges me then to make ufe of cold to fupply what is wanting. Out of five bufhels of malt, 1 generally make an hogfhead of ale with the two firft: coppers of wort, and an hogfhead of fmall beer with the other two ; but this more or lefs, as it pleafes me, always taking care to let each copper of wort be drained off through a fieve, and cool in four or five tubs, to prevent its foxing. Thus I have brewed many hogfheads of middling ale, that, when the malt is good, has proved ftrong enough for myfelf, and fatisfa&ory to my friends. But for ftrong keeping beer, the firll copper of wort may be wholly put to that ufe, and all the reft fmall beer. Or, when the firft cop- per of wort is entirely made ufe of for ftrong beer, it may be helped with more frefh malt, according to the Londart fafhion, and water, lukewarm, put over at firft with the bowl \ but foon after fharp, or boiling water, which may make a copper of good ale, and fmall beer after that. In fome parts of the north, they take one or more cinders, red hot, and throw fome fait on them to overcome the fulphur of the coal, and then dire&ly thruft it into the frefh malt or goods, where it lies till all the wa- ter is laded over, and the brewing done; for there are only one or two mafhings or ftirrings, at moft, neceffary in a brewing. Others, who brew with wood, will quench one or more brand ends of a 111 in a copper of wort, to mellow the drink, as a burnt toaft of bread does a pot of beer; but it muft be obferved, that this muft: not be done with oak, fir, or other ftrong fcented wood, left it does more harm than good. Of bottling malt liquors. Take care that your bottles are well cleaned and dried ; for wet bottles will make the liquor turn watery or mouldy ; and, by wet bottles, a great deal of good beer has been ipoiled. Even though the bottles are clean and dry, if the corks are not new and found, the liquor will be ftill liable to be damaged ; for if the air can get into the bottles, the liquor will grow flat, and will never rife. Many have plumed themfelves on their facing knowledge, by ufing old corks on this occafion, and have fpoiled as much liquor as coft them four or five pounds, to fave the ex- pence of three or four fhillings. If bottles are corked properly, it will be difficult to pull out the cork without a ferew; and, in c order-