Made Difhes of Poultry, &c. 149 the chickens in a clean difli ; take three large onions, chop them fmall, and fry them in about two ounces ot butter; then put in the chickens, and fry them together till they are brown ; take a quarter of an ounce of turmerick, a large fpoonful of ginger and beaten pepper together, and a little fait to your palate ; ftrew all thefe ingredients over the chickens, whilfl frying, then pour in the liquor, and let it flew about half an hour ; then put in a quarter of a pint of cream, and the juice of two lemons, and ferve it up. The ginger, pepper, and turmerick, muft be beat very fine. To few Chickens. Take two fine chickens, and half boil them. Then take them, up in a pewter difh, and cut them up, feparating every joint one from the other, and taking out the breafi bones. If the fowls do not produce liquor fufficient, adtl a few fpoonfuls of the water in which they were boiled, and put in a blade of mace and a little fait. Cover it clofe with another dilh, and fet it over a ftove ot chafing-difh of coals. Let it flew till the chick- ens are enough, and then fend them hot to the table. Farley, 69* from Glaffe, 79. N. B. The above is a very pretty difli for any fick perfon, or for a lying-in lady. For change, it is better than butter, and the fauce is very agreeable and pretty. N. B. You may do rabbits, partridges, or moor-game, this way. , To force Chickens. Roaft your chickens better than half, take off the fkin, then the meat, and chop it fmall with fhred parfley and crumbs of thread, pepper and fait, and a little good cream ; then put in the meat, and clofe the fkin ; brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up with white fauce. Rajfald, 126. Stewed Chickens, or Matlot. Cut a carp with the roe in pieces ; alfo a chicken cut in pieces, one dozen and an half of fmall onions, a (lice of ham, a faggot of parfley and green onions, thyme, laurel, bafd, and four cloves ; put all together in a ftew-pan with a piece of butter ; fimmer a little on a flow fire ; then add broth, cull is, a little white wine, L 3 ' flour.