The Family Vhyfician* 399 his mouth, through an inverted funnel, or by holding his head over the mouth of a porringer tilled with warm water, &c. Such things as promote the difcharge of faliva, or caufe the patient to (pit, are generally of fervice. For this purpofe, bit- ter, hot, or pungent vegetables may be chewed; as gentian, ca- lamus aromaticus, or pellitory of Spain. Opiates often relieve the tooth-ach. For this purpofe a little cotton wet with laudanum may be held between the teeth ; or a piece of (ticking plafter, about the bignefs of a (hilling., with a bit of opium in the middle of it, of a fize not to prevent the (ticking of the other, may be laid on the temporal artery, where the pulfation is molt fenfible. De la Motte affirms, that there are few cafes wherein this will not give relief. If there be a hollow tooth, a fmal.1 piil made of equal parts of camphor and opium put into the hollow, is often beneficial. When this cannot be had, the hollow tooth may be filled with gum malticli, wax, lead, or any fubltance that will (tick in it, and keep out the external air. Keeping the teeth clean has no doubt a tendency to prevent the tooth-ach. The bed method of doing this is to walh them daily with fait and water, a decodtion of the bark, or with cold water alone. All brufhing and fcraping of the teeth is dan- gerous, and unlefs it be performed with great care, does mifchief. De la Motte. Buchan. The Bite of the Viper. The greafe of this animal rubbed into the wound, is faid to cure the bite. Though that is all the viper catchers generally do when bit, I (hould not think it fufficient for the bite of an enraged viper. It would be furely more fafe to have the wound well fucked*, and afterwards rubbed with warm falad oil. A poultice of bread and milk, foftened with falad oil (hould like- wife be applied to the wound ; and the patient ought to drink freely of vinegar >vhey, or water-gruel With vinegar in it, to make him fweat. Vinegar is one of the bed medicines that can be ufed in any kind of poifon, and ought to be taken very lu * The pra&ice of fucking out poifons is very ancient, and indeed nothing can be more rational. When the bite cannot be cutout, this is the moil likely way for extrafting the poifon. There can be no danger in performing this office, a; the poifon does no harm unlefs it be taken into the body by a wound. The per- fon who fucks the wound ought, however, to wafh his mouth frequently with $»lad oil, which will lave him from even the leaft incouveniency. The Bfylti In Africa, and the Merfi in Italy, are famed for curing the bites of poifonous animals by fucking the wound ; and we are told that the Indians in North America practice the fai»e at this day. bcrally.