Made Difhes of Poultry, &c. •*33 IC 3 turkey. quor in, and keep ftirring it all the time you pour it in, or elfe it will go into lumps, which if it happens, you mud {train it through a fieve; then put in a pint of Madeira wine, (ome pep- per and fait, and a little chyan pepper; flew it for ten minutes, then put in your giblets ; add the juice of a lemon, and (tew them fifteen minutes; then ferve them in a tureen, ''tou may put in fome egg-balls made thus :—Boil fix eggs hard, take out the yolks, put them in a mortar, and beat them ; throw in a fpoon- ful of flour, and the yolk of a raw egg, beat them together till fmooth ; then roll them in little balls, and fcald them in boiling water, and juft before you ferve the giblets up, put them in. N. B. Never put your livers in at firft, but boil them in a fauce-pan of water by themfelves. Glajfe, 87. Turkey a-la-daube, to be fent up hot. Cut the turkey down the back, juft.enough to bone it, with- out {polling the look of it, then ftuff it with a nice force-meat, made of oyfters chopped fine, crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, fhallots, a very little thyme, parfley, and butter ; fill it as full as you like, and few it up with a thread, tie it up in a clean cloth, and boil it very white, but not too much. You may ferve it up with oyfter-fauce made good, or take the bones, with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy, feafoned with pepper, fait, fhallots, and a little bit of mace ; ftrain it off through a fieve, and (tew your turkey in it (after it is half-boiled) juft half an hour, difli it up in the gravy after it is well fkimmed, ftrained, and thickened with a few mufhrooms, ftewed white, or ftewed palates, force-meat balls, fried oyfters or fweetbreads, and pieces of lemon. Difh them up with the breaft upwards. If you fend it up garnifhed with palates, take care to have them itewed tender firft. Before you add them to the turkey, you may put a few morels and truffles in your fauce, if you like it, but ■ take great care to wafh them clean. Raff aid, 122. Farley, 119. Turkey a-la-daube, to be fent up cold. Bone the turkey, and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fpread over it fome flices of ham, upon that fome force-meat, upon that a fowl, boned and feafoned as above ; then more ham and force-meat, then few it up with thread ; cover the bottom of the ftew-pan with veal and ham, then lay in the turkey, the breaft down ; chop all the bones to pieces, and put them on the