C 22 ) 4 CHAP. II. OF BOILING. Preliminary Hints and Obfervations. NEATNESS being a mod material requifition in a kitchen, the cook fhould be particularly cautious to keep all the utenfils perfe&ly clean, and the pots and faucepans properly tin- ned. In boiling any kind of meat, but particularly veal, much care and nicety are required. Fifl your pot with a fufficient quantity of foft water, dud your veal well with fine flour, put it into your pot, and fet it over a large fire. It is the cuftom of fome people to put in milk to make it white ; but this is of no ufe, and perhaps better omitted ; for if you ufe hard water, it will curdle the milk, give to the veal a brownifh yellow cart, and will often hang in lumps about it. Oatmeal will do the fame thing; but by dulling your veal, and putting it into the water wrhen cold, it will prevent the foulnefs of the water from hang- ing upon it. Take the fcum off clearly as foon as it begins to rife, and cover up the pot clofely. Let the meat boil as flowly as poflible, but in plenty of water, which will make your veal rife and look plump. A cook cannot make a greater miffake than to let any fort of meat boil fall, fince it hardens the outfide before it is warm within, and contributes to difcolour it. Thus a leg of veal, of twelve pounds weight, will take three hours and an half boiling ; and the flower it boils, the whiter and plumper it will be. When mutton or beef is the objeft of your cookery, be careful to dredge them well with flour before you put them into the pot of cold water, and keep it covered ; but do not for- get to take off the fcum as often as it rifes. Mutton and beef do not require fo much boiling ; nor is it much minded if it be a little under the mark ; but lamb, pork, and veal, fhould be well boiled, as they will otherwife be unwholefome. A leg of pork will take an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the fame weight; but, in general, when you boil beef or mutton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weight. To put in the meat when t;he water is cold, is allowed to be the belt method, as it thereby