125 Made Dijhes of Pork, &c. tarragon fhred fmall; boil them a few minutes, then draw your pork, and cut the (kin down from the bottom of the flank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row, and roll it to the fhank ; (train your fauce, and pour it in boiling hot, lay oyfter patties all round the pork, and fprigs of green parfley. Ruf- fald, hi'. Mrs. Mafon, page 175, has nearly the fame receipt as the above ; the only difference is, that (he omits the lemon-pickle and tarragon, as well as the green parfley for garnifli. Po fluff a Chine of Pork. Take a chine of pork that has hung four or five days ; make four holes in the lean, and (tuff it with a little of the fat leaf, chopped very fmall, fome parfley, thyme, a little fage and (hal- lot cut very fine, feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. It mud be fluffed pretty thick. Have fome good gravy in the difli. For fauce, apple-fauce and potatoes. Another way. Take a chine that has been hung about a month, boil it half an hour, then thicken it up and make holes in it all over the lean part, one inch from another, fluff them betwixt the joints with fhred parfley, rub it all over with the yolk of eggs, drew over it bread-crumbs, bade it, and fet it in a Dutch oven. When it is enough, lay round it boiled broccoli, or dewed fpi- nach. Garnilh with parfley. Raffald, 112. Hog’s Head au Sanglier, or IVild-boar fafhion. Cut the head clofe to the (houlder, bone the neck part, part the fle(h from the nofe as far as the eyes, cut off the bone, lard the inflde with bacon, feafon with pepper, fait, and fpices ; rub it all over with fait, and .half an ounce of pounded falt- petre ; put it in a pickle-pan, with half a handful of juniper- berries, fweet herbs, fix laurel-leaves, bafil, eight cloves, whole pepper, and had a handful of coriander-feed ; let it lie for about eight days, rubbing it every day ; then take it out and wipe it dry ; tie it well, boil it with three pints of red wine, and as much water as will properly bod it, with onions, carrots, a large faggot