Made Diflies of Beef 51 Beef Steaks rolled. Take fome beef {leaks, what quantity is wanted, beat them with a cleaver to make them tender; make fome force-meat with a pound of veal beat fine in a mortar, the flefh of a fowl, half a pound of cold ham or gammon of bacon, fat and lean, the kidney-fat of a loin of veal, and a fweetbread, all cut very fmall ; fome truffles and morels ftewed and then cut final!, two fhallofs, fome parfley, a little thyme, fome lemon-peel, the yolks of four eggs, a nutmeg grated, and half a pint of cream. Mix thefe all together, and dir them over a flow fire for ten mi- nutes ; put them upon the (leaks, and roll them up ; then fkewer them tight, put them into the frying-pan, and fry them of a nice brown; then take them from the fat, and put them into a ftew-pan with a pint of good drawn gravy, a fpoonful of red wine, two of catchup, a few pickled mufhrooms, and let v them {lew for a quarter of an. hour ; take up the {leaks, cut them in two, lay the cut fide uppermoft. Garnifti with lemon. Ma~ fan, 128. Glajfe, 40. N. B. Before you put the force-meat into the beef, you are to ftir it all together over a flow fire for eight or ten minutes. Glajfe, 40. *• / • V • * A Rib of Beef Glajfe, with fpinach. Provide one of the prime ribs, trim it neatly, and lay it in a marinade for an hour or two ; take a ftew-pan exa£llv its big- nefs, put a {lice or two of bacon at the bottom, lay in your beef, and cover it with the fame; to feafon, put in an onion or two, fome bits of carrot, a little fweet bafil, thyme, and parfley, a little pepper, fait, and a blade or two of mace; let it flew gent- ly till it is very tender, take it out upon a plate, (train your braze, clean it well from the fat, put it into a clean ftew-pan, and boil it with a ladle of gravy very faft, and you will find it come to a fort of gluey confidence; then put your beef in, and keep it hot till your dinner-time, and ferve it up with fpinach. At another time you may ferve it with favoys or red cabbage, dripped fine and ftewed, after being blanched, only adding a bit of bacon, with a few cloves duck in it in the ftewing, but not to ' fend to table. b Fillet of the firloin is done pretty much in the fame way, ma- E 2 rinaded