43 ^ Sthe Family Fhyficlan. three ounces of fimple cinnamon-water may be added to this de- coction. In fluxes of the belly, where the ftronger aftringenls are im- proper, a tea-cupful of this decodtion may be taken with advan- tage three or four times a-day. DecoBion of the Bark. Boil an ounce of the Peruvian bark, grofsly powdered, in a pint and an half of water to one pint; then ftrain the decodtion. If a tea-fpoonful of'the weak fpirit of vitriol be added to this medicine, it will render it both more agreeable and efficacious. Compound DecoBion of the Bark. Take of Peruvian’ bark and Virginian fnake-root, grofsly powdered, each three drachms. Boil them in a pint of water to one half. To the (trained liquor add an ounce and an half of aromatic water. Sir John Pringle recommends this as a proper medicine to- wards the decline of malignant fevers, when the pulfe is low, the voice weak, and the head affedted with a ftupor but with little delirium. The dofe is four fpoonfuls every fourth or fixth hour. PLASTERS. Plaftcrs ought to be of a different confiftence, according to the purpofes for which they are intended. Such as are to be ap- plied to the breads and ftomach, ought to be foft and yielding; while thofe defigned for the limbs, fhould be firm and adhefive. Stomach Plajler. Take of gum plaffer, half a pound; camphorated oil, an ounce and an half; black pepper, or capficum, where it can be had, one ounce. Melt the plaffer, and mix with it the oil; then fprinkle in the pepper, previoufly reduced to a fine powder. An ounce or two of this plaffer, fpread upon foft leather, and applied to the region of the ftomach, will be of fervice in flatu- lencies arifing from hyfteric and hypochondriac affedlions. A little of the expreffed oil of mace, or a fiwv drops of the eflential oil of mint, may be rubbed upon it before it is applied. , Adhejive Plajler. Take of common plaffer, half a pound ; of Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. This plaffer is principally ufed for keeping on other dreffingst Anodynt