The Family Phyfician, 9 them, Females ought to be exceedingly cautious of what they eat or drink at the time they are out of order. Every thing that is cold, or apt to four on the flomach, ought to be avoided ; as fruit, butter-milk, and fuch like. Fifh, and all kinds of food that are hard ol digeflion, are alfo to be avoided. As it is im- poflible to mention every thing that may difagree with indivi- duals-at this time, I would recommend it to every female to be very attentive to what difagrees with herfelf, and carefully to avoid it. From whatever caufe this flux is obftrudted, except in the flate of pregnancy, proper means fhould be ufed to reftore it. For this purpofe, I would recommend fufficient exercife, in a dry, open, and rather cool air; wholefome diet, and if the body be weak and languid, generous liquors ; alfo cheerful company, and all manner of amufements. If thefe fail, t,ecourfe mull be had to medicine. When obftrudlions proceed from a weak relaxed date of the folids, fuch medicines as tend to'promote digeflion, to brace the folids, and allift the body in preparing good blood, ought to be ufed. The principal of thefe are iron and the Peruvian bark, with all other bitter and aftringent medicines. Filings of iron may be infufed in wine or ale, two or three ounces to an Englifh quart, and after it has flood for two or three weeks, it may be filtered, and about half a wine glafs of it taken twice a-day : or prepared fteel may be taken in the dofe of half a drachm, mixed with a little honey or treacle, three or four times a-day. The bark, and other bitters, may be either taken in fubflance or in- fufion, as is moft agreeable to the patient. But the menftrual flux may be too great as well as too finall. When this happens, the patient becomes weak, the colour pale, the appetite and digeflion are bad, and oedematous fwellings of the feet, dropfies, and confumptions enfue. This frequently happens to women about the age of forty-five and fifty, and is very difficult to cure. It may proceed from a fedentary life, a full diet, confiding chiefly of falted, high feafoned, or acrid food j the ufe of fpirituous liquors; exceflive fatigue; relaxation ; a -diflolved flate of the blood ; violent paffions of the mind, 5cc. The treatment of this difeafe mult be varied according to its caufe. When it is occafioned by any error in the patient’s re- gimen, an oppofite courfe to that which induced the .diforder, muft be purfued, and fuch medicines taken as have a tendency to reltrain the flux, and counteradt the morbid afFedtions of the iyflem from whence it proceeds. Arbuihnot.