Of Cakes. 311 looks clear and thick, and then put them into flat-bottomed glafles. Set them in a ftove, and keep them in a conftant and moderate heat; and when they are candied on the top, turn them out upon glafles. Farley, 299. N. B. Lemon-cakes may be made the fame way. Gingerbread. Take three quarts of fine flour, two ounces of beaten ginger, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, cloves, and mace, beat fine, but mod; of the latter. Mix all together, three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, two pounds of treacle; fet it over the fire, but do not let it boil. Three quarters of a pound of butter melted in the treacle, and fome candied lemon and orange-peel cut fine; mix all thefe together. An hour will bake it in a. quick oven. GlaJJ'e, 283. Little Currant Cakes. Take a pound and an half of fine flour, dry it well before the fire, a pound of butter, half a pound of fine loaf fugar, well beat and fifted, four yolks of eggs, four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, four fpoonfuls of fack, a little mace, and one nutmeg grated. Beat the eggs very well, and put them to the rofe-water and fack ; then put to it the fugar and butter; work them all together, ftrew in the currants and flour, being both made warm together before. This quantity will make fix or eight cakes \ bake them pretty crifp, and of a-fine brown. Rajfaldi 272. Heart Cakes. Take a pound of butter, and work it with the hand to a cream; put to it a dozen yolks of eggs, and half the whites, well beaten, a pound of flour dried, a pound of fifted fugar, four fpoonfuls of good brandy, and a pound of currants waihed and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled, put in two ounces of candied orange and citron ; continue beating the cakes till they go into the oven. This quantity will fill three dozen of middling pans. Naples' Bifcuit. Put three quarters of a pound of very fine flour to a pound of fine fugar fifted ; fift it three times, then add fix eggs well beat, and a fpoonful of rofe-water. When the oven is almoft hot, make them, but take care that they are not made up too wet. Common Bifcuit. Take eight eggs, and beat them half an hour ; put to them a pound of fugar, beat and fifted, with the rind of a lemon grated. Whilk it an hour, or till it looks light, and then put X 4 in