Made Dijhes of Beef. 4* Browning for Made Dijhes, Beat fmall four ounces of treble-refined fugar, put it in a clean iron frying-pan, with one ounce of butter ; fet it over a clear fire, mix it very well together all the time; when it begins to be frothy, the fugar is diffolving, hold it higher over the fire, have ready a pint of red wine ; when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour in a little of the wine, and Itir it well toge- ther ; then add more wine, and keep ftirring it all the time ; put in half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, fix cloves, four fhallots peeled, two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of mufh- room catchup, a little fait, the out-rinds of one lemon ; boil them llowly for ten minutes, then pour it into a bafon. When cold, take off the fcum very clean, and bottle it for ufe. Raff aid, 81 • Beef A-la-mode. Take fome of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or fmall round (what is generally called the moufe-buttock) ; cut it five or fix inches thick; cut fome pieces of fat bacon into long bits ; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double the quantity of fait, if wanted ; mix them together, dip the bacon into fome vinegar (garlick vinegar, if agreeable), then into the fpice \ lard the beef with a larding-pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot juft large enough to hold it, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, and fome lemon-peel. Cover it down very clofe, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the fteam evaporating; when it is half.done, turn it, and cover it up again ; do it over a ftove, or a very flow fire* It will take five hours and an half before it is done. N. B. Truffles and morels may be added to it. Mafon, 123. Beef A-la-mode another way. Having boned a rump of beef, lard the top with bacon, and make the following force-meat:—Take four ounces of marrow, the crumb of a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs chopped fmall, two heads of garlick, and feafon them to your tafte with fait, pepper, and nutmeg; then beat up the yolks of four eggs. Mix 0