-6s 0/ "Buddings, gethcr, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it four hours; be fure to pnf it in when the water boils, and keep it boiling all the time j turn it into a difh, and garnifh with powder fugar. An Italian Pudding. Take a pint of cream, and dice in fome French rolls, as much as you think will make it thick enough; beat ten eggs fine,, grate a nutmeg, butter the- bottom of the difh, (lice twelve pip- pins into it, throw fome orange-peel and fugar over, and half a pint of red wine ; then pour your cream, bread, and eggs over it; firft lay a puff pafte at the bottom of the difh, and round the edges, and bake it half an hour. GlaJJe, 217. A Lemon Pudding. Take three lemons and grate the rinds off, beat up twelve yolks and fix whites of eggs, put in half a pint of cream, half a pound of fine fugar, a little orange flower water, a quarter of a pound of butter melted. Mix all well together, fqueeze in the juice of two lemons ; put it over the ftove, and keep ftirring it till it is thick ; put a puff pafte round the rim of the difh, put in pudding-fluff, with fome candied fweetmeats cut fmall over it, and bake it three quarters of an hour. A Marrow Pudding. Grate a penny-loaf into crumbs, and pour on them a pint of boiling hot cream. Cut very thin a pound of beef-marrow, beat four eggs well, and then add a glafs of brandy, with fugar and nutmeg to your tafle. Mix them all well together, and either boil or bake it. Three quarters of an hour will do it. Cut two ounces of citron very thin ; and when you difh it up, flick them all over it. Another. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, half boil it, half a pound of marrow fhred very fine, a quarter of a pound of raifins floned and chopped fmall, with two ounces of currants; beat four eggs a quarter of an hour, mix it all together, with a pint 't~^^f good cream, a fpoonful of brandy, and fugar and nutmeg to your tafte. You may either bake it or put it intofldns for hogs puddings. A Millet Pudding. Spread a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a difh ; lay into it fix ounces of millet, and a quarter of a pound of fugar. When going to the oven, pour over it three pints of milk. Majon, 377. PJsrfclx