. The Art of Brewing. 367 order to be fure to draw the cork without breaking, the fcrew ought to go through the cork ; of courfe, the air will find a paf- fage where the fcrew has pafled, and confequently the cork muft have been fpoiled. If a cork has once been in a bottle, though it has not been drawn with a fcrew, yet that cork will turn mully as foon as it is expofed to the air, and will communicate its ill flavour to the bottle in which it is next put, and fpoil the the liquor that way. In the choice of corks, prefer thofe that are foft and free from fpecks. When you once begin to bottle a vcflel of liquor, never leave it till it is completed, othervvife it will bear different taftes. When a velfel of any liquor begins to grow flat, while it is in common draught, bottle it, and into every bottle put a piece of loaf fugar, of about the fize of a walnut, which will make it rife and come to itfelf; and, to forward its ripening, you may fet fome bottles in hay in a warm place; but ftraw will not aflifl its ripening. To recover a barrel of beer that has turned four. To a kilderkin of beer, throw in at the bung a quart of oat- meal, lay the bung on loofe two or three days, then flop it down clofe, and let it (land a month. Some throw in a piece of chalk as large as a turkey’s egg, and when it has done working, (top it clofe for a month ; then tap it. To recover a mujly cajk. Boil fome pepper in water, and fill the ca(k with it fcalding; 1 * 14 O' hot. An excellent compofition for keeping beer with. Take a quart of French brandy, or as mult Englifh, that is free from any burnt flavour, or other ill tafte, and is full proof; to this put as much wheat or bean flour as will knead it into dough, put it in long pieces into the bung-hole, as foon as the beer has done working, or afterwards, and let it gently fall, piece by piece, to the bottom of the butt. This will maintain the drink in a mellow frefhnefs, keep fialenefs off for fome time, and caufe it to be the (tronger as it grows aged. Another way. Take a peck of egg-fhells, and dry them in an oven, break and mix them with two pounds of fat chalk, and mix them with •water, wherein four pounds of coarfe fugar have been boiled, and put into the butt. To