334 V referring. pour it over the citrons ; boil all together the next day, and put them in'o a pot to be candied, or into jellies. To preferve Lemons. Prepare your lemons very thin, then make a round hole on the top, of the fize of a (hilling, and take out all the pulps and (kins. Rub them with (alt, and put them in fpring water as you do them, which will prevent their turning black. Let them lie in it five or fix days, and then boil them in frelh fait and wa- ter fifteen minutes. Have ready made a thin fyrup, of a quart of water and a pound of loaf-fugar. Boil them in it for five minutes once a day, for four or five days, and then put them in a large jar. Let them (land for fix or eight weeks, and it will make them look clear and plump ; then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould. Make a fyrup of fine fugar, put as much water to it as will dilfolve it, boil it and (kim it; then put in your lemons, and boil them gently till they are clear. Put them into a jar, with brandy-paper over them, and tie them down clofe. Farley, 338. To preferve green Codlings to keep all the year. Gather your codlings when they are about the fize of a wal- nut. and let the (talk and a leaf or two remain on each. Put fome vine-leaves into a brafs pan of fpring water, and cover them with h layer of codlings, then another of vine-leaves, and pro- ceed in the fame manner till the pan is full. Cover it dole to keep the fleam in, and fet it on a dovv fire. When they b&- come foft, take off the (kins with a pen-knife, then put them in the fame water with the vine-leaves ; it muff be quite cold, or it perhaps may crack them. Put a little roach-allum, and> fet them over a very (low fire till they are green, (which will be in about three or four hours,) then take them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days, then put them into fmalljars. Put brandy-paper over them, and keep them for ufe. Rajfaldy 217. To preferve Eringo Roots. ■ Parboil fome eringo roots till they are tender, peel them, wa(h them, and dry them with a cloth, and cover them with clarified fugar; boil them gently till they are clear, and the fyrup feems to be thickifh ; put them up when half cold Marmalade of Oranges. This is ufually made with China oranges; cut each into quarters.