Prefervlng, 331 them in your preferving-pan, and when the fugar is as warm as milk, pour it over them. When quite cold, paper them down. Thus clear your fugar for all preferves, apricots, peaches, goofeberries, currants, &c. Glajfe, 318. To preferve Walnuts black. Take walnuts of the imaller kind, put them in fait and water, and change the water every day for nine days. Then put them in a fieve, and let them ftand in the air till they begin to turn black. Then put them into a jug, pour boiling water over them, and let them hand till the next day. Then put them into a fieve to drain, flick a clove in each end of your walnut, put them into a pan of,boiling water, and let them boil five minutes. Then take them up, make a thin fyrup, and fcald them in it three or four times a day, till your walnuts are black and bright. Then make a thick fyrup with a few cloves, and a little ginger cut in dices. Skim it well, put in your walnuts, boil them five, or fix minutes, and then put them into your jars. Lay brandy-paper over them, and tie them down clofe with a bladder. They will eat better the fecond year after their keeping than in the firfl, as their bit— ternefs goes off with time. Farley, 335. To preferve Walnuts green. Gather your walnuts when they are not much larger than a good nutmeg, wipe them very clean, and lay them in ftrong fait and water twenty-four hours ; then take them out, and wipe them very clean ; have ready a flew-pan of boiling water, throw them in, let them boil a minute, and take them out; lay them on a coarfe cloth, and boil your fugar as directed for the white wal- nuts ; then juft give your walnuts a fcald in the fugar, take them up, and lay them to cool. Put them in your preferving-pot, and pour on your fyrup. . To preferve Barberries for Tarts. Take female barberries, and add to them their weight in fu- gar, put them into a jar, and fet them in a kettle of boiling wa- ter till the fugar is melted, and the barberries are become quite foft; the next day put them into a preferving-pan, and boil them a quarter of an hour; then put them into jars, and keep them in a place that is dry and cool. To preferve Fruit green. Take pippins, pears, plums, apricots, or peaches, while they are green , put them in a preferving-pan, cover them with vine- leaves, and then with clear fpring-water; put on the cover of the pan, fet them over a very clear fire j when they begin to fim- mer,