165 Made Dijhes of Poultry, &c. Pigeons boiled with Rice. Stuff the bellies of fix pigeons with parfley, pepper, and fait, rolled in a very little piece of butter j put them into a quart of mutton broth, with a little beaten mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion ; cover them clofe, and let them boil a full quarter of an hour ; then take out the onion and fweet herbs, and take a good piece of butter rolled in flour, put it in, and give it a fhaki ; feafon it within fait, if it wants it; then have ready half a pound of rice boiled tender in milk. When it begins to be thick (but take great care it does not burn) take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little nutmeg. Stir it together till it 'is quite thick ; then take up the pigeons and lay them in a difh. Pour the gravy to the rice, ftir it all together, and pour over the pigeons. Garnifh with hard eggs cut into quarters. Glafe, 91. To broil Pigeons. When you fet about to broil pigeons, take care that your fire is clear. Take fome parfley fhred fine, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, with a little pepper and fait, and put into their bel- lies. Tie them at both ends, and put them on the gridiron. Or you may fplit and broil them, having firfl feafoned them with pepper and fait. Serve them with-a little parfley and but- ter in the difh. Farley, 50. Partridges in Panes. Take two roafted partridges, and the flefir of a large fowl, a little parboiled bacon, a little marrow or fweet fuet chopped fine, a few mufhrooms and morels chopped fine, truffles, and arti- choke bottoms. Seafon with beaten mace, pepper, a little nut- meg, fait, fweet herbs chopped fine, and the crumb of a two- penny loaf foaked in hot gravy. Mix all well together with the yolks of two eggs, make your panes on paper, of around figure, and the thicknels of an egg, at a proper diftance one from ano- ther. Dip the point of a knife in the yolk of an egg, in order ' to fhape them ; bread them neatly, and bake them a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. Obferve that the truffles and morels are boiled tender in the gravy you foak the bread in. Serve them M3 up 1