Of Roofing. 6 To roof Pork. Pork mud be well done, or it is apt to furfeit. When you roaft a lo^n, take a fharp pen-knife, and cut the fkin acrofs, to make the crackling eat the better. The chine mult be cut, and fo mull all pork that has the rind on. Roaft a leg of pork thus: —-Take a knife, as above, and fcore it; ftuff the knuckle part with fage and onion, chopped fine, with pepper and fait; or cut a hole under the twift, and put the fage, &c. there, and fkewer it up with a fkewer. Roaft it crifp, becaufe moft people like the rind crifp, which they call crackling. Make fome good apple- fauce, and fend it up in a boat; then have a little drawn gravy to put in the difh. This they call a mock-goofe. The fpring, or hand of pork, if very young, roafted like a pig, eats very well; or take the fpring, and cut off the fliank or knuckle, and fprinkle fage and onion over it, and roll it round, and tie it with a firing, and roaft it two hours, otherwife it is better boiled. The fpare-rib fhould be bafted with a little bit of butter, a very little duft of flour, and fome fage fhred fmall; but we never make any fauce to it but apple-fauce. The bed way to drefs pork griflcins is to roaft them, bade them with a little butter and fage, and a little pepper and fait. Few eat any thing with thefe but muftard. GlaJJ’c, 3. Pork mull be well done. To every pound, allow a quarter of an hour. For example—a joint of twelve pounds weight, three hours; and fo on. If it be a thin piece of that weight, two hours will roaft it. GlaJJ'e, 22. Do not fcore pork, but rub it over with a feather and fome oil. Mafon, 175. To roof a Pig. Stick your pig juft above the breaft-bone, run your knife to the heart. When it is dead, put it in cold water for a few mi- nutes, then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceeding fine, or its own blood ; put your pig into a pail of Raiding water half a minute; take it out, lay it on a clean table, pull off the hair as ■cnick as poflible ; if it does not come clean off, put it in again. When you have got it all clean off, wafh it in warm water, then in two or throe cold waters, for fear the rofm Ihould taite. 1 ake