39J The Family Phyfician. bleed in the arm, or rather in the jugular vein, and to repeat the operation as circumdances require. It fometimes happens, belore the ulcer- breaks, that the /wel- ling is /o great, as entirely to‘prevent any thing from getting down into the domach. In this cafe, the patient mud inevi- tably peri(h, unled he can be^ fupported in fome other way. This can only be done by nourilhing clyders of broth, or gruel, with milk, Sic. Patients have often been fupported by thefe for feverd days, till the tumour has broke j and afterwards they have recovered. Huxham. Fothergil. 'Phe Rheumatifm. .The acute rheumatifm commonly begins with wearinefs, fhivering, a quick pulfe, re/tle/rnefs, third, and other fymptoms of a fever Afterwards the p-.tient complains of flying pains, which are increafed by the lead motion. Thefe at lad fix in the joints, which are often attended with fwell ng and' infiam- rnatior:, Ii blood be let in this ddeafe, it has generally the fame appearance as in the pleurify. In this kind of rheumatifm, the treatment of the patent is nearly the fame as in an acute or inflammatory fever. The chronic rheumatifm is feldom attended with any confi- derable degree of fever; and is generally confined to fome part- icular part f the body, as the Ihoulders, the back, or the loins. There is feldom any inflammation or fwelling in this cafe. Per- fons in the decline of life are mod fubjedt to the chronic rheu- matifm.' In fuch patien s it often proves extremely obdinate, and fometimes incurable. In this kind of rheumatifm, the regimpn fliould be nearly the fame as in the acute. Cool and diluting diet, confiding chiefly of vegetable fubdances, as dewed prunes, coddled apples, cur- rants or goofeberries boded in milk, is mod proper. Arbufh- not fays, “ If there be a fpecific in aliment for the rheumatifm, “ it is certain'y whey and adds, “ That he knew a perfon " fubjedt to this difeafe, who could never be cured by any other “ method but a diet of whey and bread.” He likewise fays, “ That cream of tartar in water gruel, taken for feveral days, “ will eafe rheumatic pains confidcrably.” This I have often experienced, but found it always more efficacious when joined with gum guaiacum. What I have generally found anfwer better than either of thefe, in obdinate fixed rheumatic pains, is the warm phfler, made as follows: “ Take of gum plader, one ounce ; bliifering * c “ plader.