the Art of Brewing. 363 ter, and thin your wort that is cooled in as many things as you can ; for the thinner it lies, and the quicker it cools, the bet- ter. ’When quite cool, put it into the tunning-tub. Throw an handful of fait into every boil. When the mafh has hood an hour, draw it off; then fill your mafh with cold water, take off the wort in a copper, and order it as before. When cool, add to it the firft: in the tub. As foon as you empty one copper, fill the other, and boil your fmall beer well. Let the laft mafh run off, and when both are boiled with frefh hops, order them as the two firft boilings. When cool, empty tire mafh-tub, and put the fmall beer to work there. When cool enough, work it, fet a wooden bowl full of yeaft in the beer, and it will work over with a little of the beer in the boil. Stir your tun up every twelve hours; let it ftand two days, then tun it, taking off the yeaft. Fill your veffels full, and fave fome to fill your barrels; let it ftand till it has done working; then lay on your bung light- ly for a fortnight, after which flop it as clofe as you can. Take care to have a vent-peg at the top of the veffel; in warm wea- ther open it; and if your drink hides, as it often will, loofen it till it has done, and then flop it clofe again. If you can boil your ale in one boiling, it will be beft, if the copper will admit of it; if not, boil as conveniency ferves. If, when you come to draw your beer, you perceive it is not fine, draw off a gallon, and fet it on the fire, with two ounces of ifing-glafs cut fmall and beat. Diffolve it in the beer over the fire. When it is all melted, let it ftand till it is cold, and pour it in at the bung, which muft lay loofe on till it has done fer- menting ; then flop it clofe for a month. Let me again repeat, that particular care is requifite that your cafks are not mufty, nor have any ill tafte. If they have, it will be a difficult matter to fweeten them. Waffi your cafks with cold water before you feald them, and let them lie a day or two foaking ; then clean them well, and feald them. Of the proper time for Brezving. The month of March is generally confidered as a proper fea- fon for brewing malt liquor, which is intended for keeping ; be- caufe the air at that time of the year is temperate, and contri- butes to the proper working or fermentation of the liquor, which principally promotes its prefervation and good keeping. Very cold,. or very hot weather, prevents the free fermentation, or working of liquors; therefore, if you brew in very cold wea- ther, unlefs you contrive fome means to warm the cellar while new