Made Difhes of Beef. 53 fome parfley fhred fmall, and roll it up tight; tie it with a piece of packthread, road it, put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter into the dripping-pan, and bade it. When it is enough, take it up, untie it, leave a little fkewer in it to hold it together, have a little good gravy in the difh, and fome fweet. fauce in a cup. You may bade it with red wine and butter, or it will do very well with butter only. Glajfe, 40. Another way. Soak fix anchovies in water about two hours; fplit them, and lard the fillet with them, intermixed with bacon ; dew it on a flow fire, with a little broth and white wine, a clove of garlick, two cloves, a faggot of parfley, green onions, and fweet herbs. When done, fift the fauce ; add a little butter rolled in flour, and a few whole capers ; make a liafon of eggs and cream ; ferve it up on the fillet. Clermont, 76. Bouille Beef. Take the thick end of a brifket of beef, put it into a kettle of water quite covered over ; let it boil fad for two hours, then keep dewing it clofe by the fire for fix hours more, and as the water wades, fill up the kettle ; put; in with the beef fome turnips cut into little balls, carrots, and fome celery cut in pieces ; an hour before it is done, take out as much broth as will fill your foup- difli, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut out in balls, or in little fquare pieces, with fome celery, fait and pep- per to your tade ; ferve it up in two diflies, the beef by itfelf, and the foup by itfelf; you may put pieces of fried bread, if you like it, in your foyp ; boil in, a few knots of greens ; and if you think your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound QX two of fried mutton chops to your broth when you take it from the beef, and let it dew for that hour in the broth; but be fure to take out the mutton when you fend it to the table. The foup mud be very clear. Rajfald, 113. Beef in Epigram. Road a firloin of beef, take it off the fpit, then raife the fkin carefully off, and cut the lean parts of the beef out, but obferve not to cut near the ends or fides. Hafh the meat in the follow- ing manner:—cut it into pieces about as big as a crown piece, - E 3 put