200 Of Soups. very dry. When the gravy boils, put them in. Cut off the crufts of two French rolls, break them, and put into the reft. When the herbs are tender, the foup is enough. A boiled fowl may be put into the middle, but it is very good without. If a white foup is liked better, it lhould be veal gravy. Onion Soup. Boil eight or ten large Spanifh onions in milk and water; change it three times. When they are quite foft, rub them through a hair fieve. Cut an old cock into pieces, and boil it for gravy, with one blade of mace. Strain it, and pour it upon . the pulp of the onions ; boil it gently with the crumb of an old penny loaf, grated into half a pint of cream. Add chyan pep- per and fait to your lafte. A few heads of afparagus, or boiled fpinach, both make it eat well and look very pretty. Grate a cruft of brown bread round the edge of the difh. Raffald, 8. Ox-cheek Soup. Break the bones of an ox-cheek, and wafh them till they are perfectly clean. Then lay them in warm water, and throw in a little fait, which will fetch out the flime. Then take a large ftew-pan, and put two ounces of butter at the bottom of it, and lay the fleftiy fide of the cheek-bone in it. Add to it half a pound of (hank of ham cut in flices, and four heads of celery, with the leaves pulled off, and the heads wafhed clean. Cut them into the foup with three large onions, two carrots, a parf- nip diced, a few beets cut fmall, and three blades of mace. Set it over a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, which will draw the virtue from the roots, and give to the gravy an agree- able ftrength. A very good gravy may be made by this me- thod, with roots and butter, adding only a little browning to give it a good colour. When the head has fimmered a quarter of an hour, put to it fix quarts of water, and let it ftew till it is reduced to two quarts. If you would have it eat like foup, drain and take out the meat and the other ingredients, and put in the white part of a head of celery cut in fmall pieces, with a little browning to make it of a fine colour. Take two ounces of vermicelli, give it a fcald in the foup, and put it into the tureen, with the top of a French roll in the middle of it. If you would have it eat like a ftew, take up the face as whole as poftible, and have ready a boiled turnip and carrot cut in fquare pieces, and a llice of bread toafted and cut in fmall dice. Put in a little chyan pepper, and drain the foup through a hair fieve upon the meat, bread, turnip, and carrot. Farley, 198. v * - Soup