Made DiJJjes of Poultry, &c. 146 To Jlew a Fowl. Trufs a fowl for boiling ; put it in a (lew-pan with a piece of butter, chopped parfley, (hallots, and mulhrooms ; foak it on a flow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often; then put it in another (lew-pan, firft: garni(hed with flices of veal and ham, and all the firft feafoning; cover with flices of bacon ; foak it for a quarter of an hour longer, then add a little whole pepper and fair, a little broth and white wine; finifh it on a (low fire, then fkim and drain the braze. When ready, add the fqueeze of a lemon, and ferve upon the fowl, being well wiped from fat. Dairymple, 219. A nice way to drefs a cold Fowl. Peel off all the (kin of the fowl, and pull the fledi off the bones in as large pieces as you can ; then dredge it with a little flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter ; tofs it up in rich gravy, well feafoned, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Juft before you fend it up, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Raff aid, 75. To drefs cold Fowl or Pigeon. Cut them in four quarters, bejt up an egg or two, according to what you drefs, grate a little nutmeg in, a little fait, fome parfley chopped, a few" crumbs of bread ; beat them well toge- ther, dip them in this batter, and have ready fome dripping hot in a (lew-pan, in which fry them of a fine light brown. Have ready a little good gravy, thickened w'ith a little flour, minced with a fpoonful of catchup ; lay the fry in the difti, and pour the fauce over. Garnifti with lemon, and a few mulhrooms, if you have any. A cold rabbit eats well done thus. / Chickens in favoury Jelly Take two chickens and road them. Boil fome calves feet to a ftrong jelly; then take out the feet, and fkim off the fat ; beat up the whites of thr^e eggs, and mix them with half a pint of white-wine vinegar, the juice of three lemons, a blade or two of mace, a few pepper-corns, and a little fait. Put them to vour ielly, and when it has boiled five or fix minutes, drain it •> J 1 fevcral