97 Made Dijhes of Mutton. from the fat and liquor, make your fauce hot and well feafoned, fqueeze in a lemon, and ferve it up with the onions round it, and pour the fauce over it. Verral, 47. Shoulder of Mutton furprifed. f Put a fhoulder of mutton, having firft half boiled it, into a toffing-pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, four ounces ol vice, a little beaten mace, and a tea-fpoonful of mufhroom powder. Stew it an hour* or till the rice is enough, and then take up your mutton and keep it hot. Put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in Hour. Then {hake it well, and boil it a few minutes. Lay your mutton on the difh, and pour your gravy over it. You .may garmfh with either pickles or barberries. Farley, 107. Mafon, 164. N B, The above receipt is inferted in page 103 of Mrs. Raffald's Englilh Houfe-keeper, with the phrafeology a little different. ✓ A Shoulder of Mutton in epigram. Roaft it almoft enough, then very carefully take off the fkin about the thicknefs of a crown piece, and the {hank-bone with it at the end ; then feafon that {kin and {hank-bone with pepper and fait, a little lemon-peel cut fmall, and a few fweet herbs and crumbs of bread \ then lay this on the gridiron, and let it be of a fine brown : in the mean time take the reft of the meat, and cut it like a hafii about the bignefs of a {hilling ; fave the gravy and put to it, with a few fpoonfuls of Itrong gravy, half m onion cut fine, a little nutmeg, a little pepper and fait, a ittle bundle of fweet herbs-, fome gerkins cut very fmall, a few' muftirooms, two or three truffles cut fmall, two fpoonfuls of wine, either red or white, and throw a little flour over the meat: et all thefe flew together very foftly for five or fix minutes, but re fure it does not boil ; take out the fweet herbs, and put the tafh into the difh ; lay the broiled upon it, and fend it to table. drtajfe, 46. M A Shoulder of Mutton called Hen and Chickens. Half roaft a fhoulder, then take it up, and cut off the blade t the firft joint, and both the flaps, to make the blade quite H round; * tm :