'Turtles and Mock Turtles. 185 fcrape off all the inward Hein ; as you do them, throw them into cold water, wafh them out of that and put them into frefh -water, and let them lie all night, fealding the fins and edges of the cal- lapafh and callapee ; cut the meat off the fhoulders, and hack the bones, and fet them over the fire with the fins in about a quart of water; put in a little mace, nutmeg, chyan, and fait ; let it flew about three hours, then flrain it, and put the fins by for ufe. The next morning take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders, and chop it fmall, as for faufages, with about a pound, of beef or veal fuet; feafon with mace, nutmeg, fweet marjoram, parfley, chyan, and fait to your tafle, and three or four glaffes of Madeira wine, fo fluff it under the two flefhy parts of the meat; and if you have any left, lay it over to prevent the meat from burning ; then cut the remainder of the meat and fins in pieces the fize of an egg; feafon it pretty high with chyan, fait, and a little nutmeg, and put it into the caliapafh ; take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end, to keep in the gravy; then boil up the gravy, and add more wine, if required, and thicken it a little with butter and flour ; put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven with a well butter’d paper over it to keep it from burning, and when it is about half baked, fqueeze in the juice of one or two lemons, and flir it up. Caliapafh, or back, will take half an hour more baking than the callapee, which two hours will do. The guts mull be cut in pieces two or three inches long, the tripes in lefs, and put into a mug of clear water, and fet in the oven with the caliapafh, and when it is enough drained from the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts, and fent up very hot. Raffald, 19. Farley, 22. Another way. I have feen, fays Mr. Verral, many a turtle dreffed ; but I think not all as they fhould be. And as I have the honor of fending feveral to table myfelf, to fome of the politeft gentry in the kingdom, with great applaufe, I fhall give the following receipt from experience, rather than from the general rule of hodge-podging it together. To diffeft it then,—Let its head be chopped off clofe to the fhell, fet it on that part that all the blood may run away ; have plenty of water in pails or tubs; lay your fifh upon the back, or caliapafh, cut off the under fhell, or callapee, in the firft line or partition, from the edge of the caliapafh ; take off that, and immediately put it into water. Next cut off the four fins in the fhoulder and aich-bone joints, and