Made Dtjhes of Beef. 47 wav .—take fix large cucumbers, fcoop out the feeds, pare them, cut them into llices, and do them juft as you do the celery. GlaJJ'e, 33. To Jlew a Rump of Beef. Half roaft ydur beef, then put it in a large fauce-pan or caul- dron, with two quarts of water, and one of red wine, two or three blades of mace, a ilialloty one fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of walnut catchup, the fame of browning. Chyan pepper and fait to yoUr tafte ; let it ftew over a gentle fire, clofe co- vered, for two hours, then take up your beef, and lay it in a deep difh, fkim off the fat', and (train the gravy, and put in one ounce of morels, and half a pint of mufhrooms; thicken your gravy, and pour it over your beef; lay round it force-meat balls. Gar- nifh with horfe-rad'ifh, and ferve it up< Raffald, 114, Another way* Having boiled it till it is little more than half enough, take it’ up, and peel off the (kin ; take fait, pepper, beaten mace, grated f uutmeg, a handful of parfley, a little thyme, winter favory, fweet marjoram, all chopped fine and mixed, and fluff them in great holes in the fat and lean, the reft fpread over it, with the yolks of two eggs ; fave the gravy that runs out, put to it a pint of claret, and put the meat in a deep pan ; pour the li- quor in, cover it clofe, and let it bake two hours ; then put it into the difh, (train the liquor through a fieve, and fkim off the fat very clean ; then pour it over the meat, and fend it to table. , Rump au Ragout. Cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, pour over it a little boiling water, and about a pint of fmall beer • add a carrot or two, an onion ftuck with cloves, fome whole pepper, fait, a piece oi lemon-peel, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; let thefe flew' an our, then add fome good gravy. When the meat is tender, ake it out, (tram the fauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a .ltierte eiy ready boded, and a little catchup ; put in the meat, and juft fimmer it up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the racroo ! enriched by adding mufhrooms frefli or pickled, artichoke-bot- toms boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. N. B. A