°fhe Family Thyfician. 379 till tliefe are either correfted or expelled. The Peruvian bark has fometimes cured periodic convu lions after other medicines had failed. Pthe Dropfy. Take of broom-feed, well powdered and fifted, one drachm ; let it deep twelve hours in a glafs and an half of good rich white- wine, and take it in the morning fading, having fird lhaken it, fo that the whole may be fwallowed. Walk after it, it you are able, or ufe what exercife you can without fatigue, tor an hour and an half* ; after which you mud be lure to take two ounces of olive oil ; and you mud not eat or drink any thing in lefs than half an hour, or an hour, after taking the oil. Repeat this. every other day, or once in three days, and not oltener, till cured ; and do not let blood, or ufe any other remedy during the courfe Nothing can be more gentle and fafe than the operation of this r, remedy, and it often has little or no fenfible one. If the dropfy is in the body, it difcharges it by urine, without any inconveni- ence; if it is between the fkin and flclh, it eaufes blillers to arife on the legs, by which it will run off \ but this does not happen to more than one in thirty ; and in this cafe no pladers mud be ufed, for they would hinder the difeharge ; but you mud apply red cabbage leaves. If the diforder is caufed by wind, it'dif- pels the phlegm that retains the wind. It cures the dropfy in pregnant women, without injury to the mother or the infant. It alfo cures the afthma, confumption, and diforders of the li- ver. It is good for the bleeding at the nofe, and for venomous ( bites and poifons. The efficacy of the above remedy has been proved by the curs of upwards of fifty dropfical women with child, and by that of more than three hundred other people of both fexes. Not long fince, this recipe was recommended to a lady, who ffeemed to be in, or nearly in, the lalt flage of a dropfy. She was fo much fwoln, that lhe appeared l.ke a woman in the lalt month of her pregnancy, and her diforder had refilled every thing * If the patient is too weak to ufe other exercife after taking the powder, the fcody and iirnbs may be rubbed with a flannel, from time to time, during the hour and an hall, giving reft at intervals, according to ftrength; and indeed the practice ot this exercife for Tome minutes, every night,and morning, may be of great help. I he quantities diredled in the recipe have ieen given alike to men and to wo- men ; and there never has been found reafon to think that they were too little tor tlje one, or too much for the other. that