Of Bulling. 37 Another way. Put on a ftew-pan, with water fufficient to cover the quantity of flounders, &c, which are to be dreflfed; put in fome vinegar and horfe-radifh. When the water boils, put in the fifh, but let them be well cleaned, and their fins cut off; do not let them boil too faft, left they break. When they are enough, lay them on a fifh-plate, the tails in the middle. Sauce—parfley and butter. Dabs are boiled in the fame manner. Mafon, 248. ’To boil Soals. Take a pair of foals, make them clean, lay them in vinegar, fait, and water, two hours ; then dry them in a cloth, put them into a ftew-pan, put to them a pint of white wine, a bundle of fvveet herbs, an onion ftuck with fix cloves, fome whole pepper, and a little fait; cover them, and let them boil. When they are enough, take them up, lay them in your difh, ftrain the li- quor, and thicken it up with butter and flour. Pour the fauce over, and garnifh with fcraped horfe-radifh and lemon. In this manner drefs a little turbot. It is a genteel difh for fupper. You may add prawns, or fhrimps, or muflels, to your fauce. Glajfe, 189. Another way, Take two or three pair of middling foals; when they are Ikinned and gutted, wafh them in fpring-water, then put them on a difh, and pour half a pint of white wine over them ; turn them two or three times in it, and pour it away ; then cut off the heads and tails of the foais, and fet on a ftew-pan, with a little rich fifh-both ; put in an onion cut to pieces, a bunch of fweet herbs, pepper, fait, and a blade of mace. When this boils, put in the foals, and with them half a lemon, cut in flices with the peel on; let them fimmer flowly, then take out the fweet herbs, and put in a pint of ftrong white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them all fimmer together till the foals | are enough. While the fifh are doing, put in half a pint of veal gravy, and a quarter of a pint of effence of ham ; let it boil a little, take up the foals, and pour this over it. Mafon, 224. . D 3 Soals,