24-6 Of Sauces. [Cullijfes are ufed for thickening all forts of ragoos, foup<, c3c. and to give them an ugreeable favour. I have given the following receipts for making fe veral of them, as they may probably be agree- able to Jome of my readers ; though I have found by long expe- rience, that Lemon-pickle and Browning fwhich fee) anfwers much better both for tafe and beauty. It is infinitely cheaper, and prevents a great deal of unneccfj'ary trouble.] A Cullis for all forts of Ragoos and rich Sauces. Take two pounds of veal, two ounces of ham, two or three cloves, a little nutmeg, a blade of mace, fome parfley-roots, two carrots cut to pieces, fome fhallots, two bay-leaves ; fet thefe over a dove in an earthen veffel ; let them do very gently for half an hour clofe covered, obfeiving they do not burn ; put beef-broth to it, let it (lew till it is as rich as it is required to be, and then {train it. A Cullis for all forts of Butcher’s Meat. The quantity of your meat muft be proportioned to your company. If ten or twelve, you cannot take lefs than a leg of veal and an ham, with all the fat, {kin, and outfide cutoff. Cut the kg of veal in pieces about the thicknefs of your lift; place them in your ftew-pan, and then the dices of ham, two carrots, an qnion cut in two ; cover it clofe, let it ftew foftly at fird, and as it begins to brown, take off the cover and turn it, to colour it on all lides the fame; but take care not to burn the meat. When it has a pretty brown colour, moiflen your cullis with broth made of beef, or other meat ; feafon your cullis with a little fweet bafil, fome cloves, with fome garlick; pare a lemon, cut it in flices, and put it into your cullis, with fome muih- rooms. Put into a dew-pan a good lump of butter, and fet it over a How die , put into it two or three handfuls of dour, dir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take a colour. If your cullis be pretty brown, you mud put in fome dour. Your dour be- ing brown with yuur a His, pour it very foftly into your cullis, keeping it dirring with a wooden ladle ; then let your cullis dew foftly, and fkim elf all the fat ; put in two glades of Champagne, or other white wine ; but take care to keep your cullis very thin, fo that you mav take the fat off and clarify it. To clarify it, you mud put it in a dove that draws well, and cover it clofe, and let it boil without uncovering till it boils over ; then uncover it. and take oft'the fat that is round the dew-pan, then wipe it oft7 the cover alfo; and cover it again. When your cullis is done, take