Made Dijhes of Veal 9X Veal Steaks, Venetian faflmn. Cut thick dices of veal pretty large ; marinade an hour in a little oil, with chopped parfley, lhallots, muflirooms, fvveet herbs, pepper and fait ; make as much of the marinade flick to them as poflible; roll them in bread crumbs, and boil {lowly, bailing with the remainder of the marinade. Serve with the iqueeze of a lemon or Seville orange. Dalrymple, no, Slices of Veal, Venetian fajhion Cut thin dices of veal, and between every two put a dice of ham of the fame fize, fird dipped in eggs, chopped pardey, Ihal- lots, mufhrooms, truffles, and a little pepper; roll them in dices of lard, and dew dowly with a little broth and white wine; when done, take off the bacon, fkim and drain the fauce, add a little butter and dour, and ferve with a relidnng fauce. Indead of bacon, you may bade them with eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry or bake them. Serve with a fauce as above, and garnifli with pardey. Clermont, 116, make Calf’s-foot Jelly. Boil two calf’s feet in a gallon of water till it comes to a quart, then drain it, let it dand till cold, fkim off all the fat clean, and take the jelly up clean. If there is any fediment at the bottom, leave it; put the jelly into a fauce-pan with a pint of mountain wine, half a pound of loaf fugar, the juice of four large lemons; beat up fix or eight whites of eggs with a whifk, then put them into a fauce-pan, and dir all together till it boils. Let it boil a few minutes. Have ready a large dannel bag, pour it in, it will run through quick ; pour it in again till it runs clear ; then have ready a large China bafon, with the lemon-peel cut as thin as poflible ; let the jelly run into that bafon, and the peels both give it a dne amber colour, and alfo a davour ; with a clean diver fpoon dll your glades. GlaJJe, 295. Farley, 320. Another ivay. To two calf’s feet, put three quarts of water, boil it to one quart; when cold, take off the fat, and take the jelly from the fediment; put to it one pint of white wine, half a. pound of fu- 3 gar,