Fbe Family Fhyfician. 392 « plafter, two drachms; melt them together over a gentle fire.” I have like wife known a plafter of Burgundy pitch, worn for fome time on the part affefted, give great relief in rheumatic cafes. Dr. Alexander fays, “ He has frequently cured many -«« obllinate rheumatic pains, by rubbing the part afrefted with “ tintSlure of cantharidcs.” When the common tindlure did not fucceed, he tifed it of a double or treble ftrength. Cup- ping upon the part affefted is likewife very often beneficial, and is greatly preferable to the application of leeches. Tfc ere are feveral of our own domeftic plants which may be ufed with advantage in the rheumatifm. One of the belf, is. the white mujtard. A table-fpoonful of the feed of this plant may be taken twice or thrice day, in a glafs of water or final! wine. The water trefoil is likewife of great ufe in this complaint. It may be infufed in wine or ale, or drank in form of tea. The ground-ivy, camomile, and feveral other bitters, are alfo bene- ficial, and may be ufed in the fame manner. No benefit how- ever is to be experienced from thefe, unlefs they be taken for a confiderable time. TiJJ'ot. Arbutbnct. Floe Rickets. As this difeafe is often attended with evident figns of weak- nefs and relaxation, our chief aim in the cure muff be to brace and ftrengthen the folids, and to promote digeftion and the due preparation of the fluids. Thefe important ends will be bell anfwered by wholefome nourifhing diet, fuited, to the age and ftrength of the patient, open dry air, and fufficient exercife. If the child has a bad nurfe, who either negledfs her duty, or docs not underffand it, file fhould be changed. If the feafon be cold, the child ought to be kept warm ; and when the weather is hot, it ought to be kept cool ; as fweating is apt to weaken it, and | too great a degree of cold has the fame effect. The limbs fhould be rubbed frequently with a warm hand, and the child I kept as cheerful as poffible. The diet ought to be dry and nourifiiing, as good bread, | roafled flelh, &c. .Bifcuit is generally reckoned the beft bread, and pigeons, pullets, veal, rabbits, or mutton, roafted or minced, arc the mod proper fled). If the child be too young for flelh : mfeats, he may have rice, millet, or pearl barley, boiled with rai- finst, to which may be added a little wine and fpice. His drink may be good claret, mixed with an equal quantity of water. Thofe who cannot afford claret, may give the child now and then a wine-glafs of mild ale, or good porter. Sometimes