Made Difloes of Veal, 71 / ^ To roajl Sweetbreads with Afparagus. Two good fweetbreads are enough for this fmall difh; blanch them, and lay them in a marinade, fpit them tight upon a lark- fpit, and tie them to another, with a flice of bacon upon each, and covered with pepper ; when almoft done, take that off, and pour a drop of butter upon them, with a few crumbs of bread, and roaft them of a nice colour; take two bunches of afparagus, and boil them, not fo much as to when boiled to eat with butter; difh up your fweetbreads and your grafs between them, take a little cullis and gravy, with a jot of fhallot and minced parfley ; boil it- a few minutes, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, and ferve it up. Verral, 161. Sweetbreads are very ufeful in many difhes, as in pies, ragoos, fricaflees, &c. and to ufe alone, either fried, roafted, broiled, of otherwife. They muft be foaked in warm water an hour or two, then fcalded about an hour or two in warm water, which is commonly called Jetting or blanching, which will make them keep longer, and are ready for any ufe you pleafe to put them to. Dalrympky 89. Forced Sweetbreads. Put three fweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, beat the yolk of an egg a little, and rub it over them with a feather ; flrew on bread-crumbs, lemon-peel, and parlley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait and pepper to your palate ; fet them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy; put a little mufh- room powder, caper liquor, or juice of lemon, and browning ; thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it into your difh; lay in your fweetbreads,' and lay over them lemon- peel in rings, cut like draws. Garnifh with pickles. Rajfaldy 98. /- Another zvay. Parboil them as for a ragoo, put force-meat in a caul in the fhape of a fweetbread ; roaft that in a Dutch oven ; thicken a little good gravy with flour ; add catchup, a little grated lemon- peel, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; boil it up with a few pickied mufhrooms or lemon-juice. Let the fweetbreads ltew a little in F 4 tips