p referring. 335 quarters, and fqueeze out the juice; take off the hard parts at both ends, and boil in water till they are quite tender ; fqueeze them to extraft the water, and pound them in the water to a marmalade to fift, mix it with an equal weight of raw fugar, and boil it till it turns to fyrup ; the proportions are, for keep- < ing, two pounds of fugar to one pound of marmalade. Cler- mont, 579. Red, Quince Marmalade. Take quinces that are lull ripe, pare them, cut them in quar- ters, and core them ; put them in a fauce-pan, cover them with the parings, fill the fauce-pan almoft full of fpring water, co- ver it clofe, and flew them gently till they are quite loft, and of a deep pink colour ; then pick out the quince from the parings, and beat them to a pulp in a mortar; take their weight in loaf- fugar, put in as much of the water they were boiled in as will dilfolve it, and boil and fkim it well; put in your quinces, and boil them gently three quarters of an hour; keep ftirring them all the time, or it will (lick to the pan and burn ; put it into flat pots, and when cold, tie it down clofe. Glajfe, 313 IVhite Quince Marmalade. To a pound and an half of quinces, take a pound of double- refined fugar, make it into a fyrup, boil it high ; pare and llice the fruit, and boil it quick. When it begins to look clear, pour in half a pint of juice of quince, or, if quinces are fcarce, pippins ; boil it till thick, take off the fcum with a paper. To make a juice, pare the quinces, or pippins, cut them from the core, beat them in a flone mortar, {train the juice through a thin cloth ; to every half pint, put more than a pound of fugar; let it {land at lead four hours before it is ufed. Mafon, 438. Apricot Marmalade. Take ripe apricots and boil them in the fyrup till they will math, then beat them in a marble mortar; add half their weight of fugar, and as much water as will dilfolve it; boil and fldm it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup like a fine jelly, then put them into your fweetmeat-glaffes, and keep them for ufe. Tranfparent Marmalade. Pick out fome very pale Seville oranges, cut them in quar- ters, take out the pulp, and put it into a bafon, pick the Ikins and feeds out, put the peels in a little fait and water, let them ftand all night; then boil them in a good quantity of fpring wa- ter