27° Of Ties. double it up, one] roil it out again ; double it and roll it threa times, then it is fit for all pies and tarts that require a puff parte. Short Cruji. Rub forne flour and butter together, full fix ounces of butter to eight of flour ; mix it up with as little water as poflible, fo as to have it a ftiffifh parte ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This is the beft cruft for all tarts that are to be eaten cold, and for pre- ferved fruit. A moderate oven. An ounce and a half of fifted fugar may be had. A good Pafe for great Pies. Put the yolks of three eggs to a peck of flour, pour in fome boiling water, then put in half a pound of fuet, and a pound and a half of butter. Skim off the butter and fuet, and as much of the liquor as will make it a light good cruft. Work it up well, and roll it out. A Pafe for Cufards. Pour half a pound of boiling water on two pounds of flour, with as much water as will make it into a good parte. Work it well, and when it has cooled a little, raife your cuftards, put a paper round the infide of them, and when they are half baked, fill them. Another way. To half a pound of flour, put fix ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and three fpoonfuls of cream. Mix them together, and let them ftand a quarter of an hour, then work it up and down, and roll it very thin. An Apple Pie. Make a good puff-pafte cruft, lay fome round the fides of the difh, pare and quarter your apples, and take out the cores, lay a row of apples thick, throw in half the fugar you intend for your pie, mince a little lemon-peel fine, throw over, and fqueeze a little lemon over them, then a few cloves, here and there one; then the reft of your apples, and the reft of your fugar. Sweeten to your palate, and fqueeze in a little more lemon. Boil the peeling of the apples and the cores in fome fair water, with a blade of mace, till it is very good; ftrain it, and boil the fyrup with a little fugar, till there is but very little and good ; pour it into your pie, put on your upper cruft, and bake it. You may, if you pleafe, put in a little quince or marmalade. Make a pear pie in the fame manner, but omit the quince. You may butter them when they come out of the oven. Or beat up the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of cream, with a little