jthe Family Phyjician. m SuppreJJion of Urine. Suppreffion of urine may proceed from various caufes ; as an inflammation of the kidnies, or bladder; fmall Hones or gravel lodging in the urinary paffages; hard faces lying in the reftum; pregnancy; a fpafm or contraction of the neck of the bladder; clotted blood in the bladder itfelf; a fwelling of the haemorrhoidal veins, &c. In thefe cafes a bougie may be ufed by any cautious hand, and will often fucceed. In all obftruftions of urine, the body ought to be kept open. This is not however to be attempted by Itrong purgatives, but by emollient clyflers, or gentle infufions of fenna and manna. Clyflers in this cafe not only open the body, but anfwer the pur- pofe of an internal fomentation, and greatly afliH in removing the fpafms of the bladder and parts adjacent. The fo«d mud be light, and taken in fmall quantities. The drink may be weak broth, or decoClions and infufions of muci- laginous vegetables, as marfh-mallow roots, lime-tree buds, &c. A tea-fpoonful of the fweet fpirits of nitre, or a drachm of Caf- tile foap, may be frequently put into the patient’s drink ; and, if there be no inflammation, he may drink fmall gin-punch. PerfonsfubjeCt to a fuppreffion of urine ought to live very temperate. Their diet fliould be light, and their liquor diluting. They fhould avoid all acids and auflere wines, (hould take fuf- ficient exercife, lie hard, and avoid Hudy and fedentary occupa- tions. # Bleeding at the Nofe. Bleeding at the nofe is commonly preceded by forhe degree of quicknefs of the pulfe, flufhing in the face, pulfation of the temporal arteries, heavinefs in the head, dimnefs of the fight, heat and itching of the noflrils, &c. To perfons who abound with blood, this difcharge is very fa- lutary. It often cures a vertigo, the head-ach, a phrenzy, and even an epilepfy. In fevers, where there is a great determina- tion of blood towards the head, it is of the utmofl fervice. It is likewife beneficial in inflammations of the liver and fpleen, and often in the gout and rheumatifm. In all difeafes where bleed- ing is neceflary, a fpontaneous difcharge of blood from the nofa is of much more fervice than the fame quantity let with a lancet. In a difcharge of blood from the nofe, the great point is to determine whether it ought to be Hopped or not. It is a com- mon pra&icc to flop the bleeding, without confidefing whether D d a -it