11 ^ Made Difhes of Lamhi. well with butter* and brown it before the fire, or with a faia- inander; put the purtenalice oft your difh, and lay the head over it. Garnifh with lemon ol‘ pickle, and ferve it up. Raff'ald, 109. Farley, (without any material alterations,) 113. Lamb's Head, Pontiff Sauce. ' Take a lamb s head, about three parts boiled, chop fome mufhrooms, and lat livers cut in dice ; put them in a dew- pan with a little cullis and white wine, a faggot of fweet herbs, a little chopped fhallot, pepper, and fait ; cut the tongue in dice, which you mix with the fauce ; then take the ^brains out of the head, and put it in the ragoo or fauce; co- ver it over with the brains cut in flices ; bade them with a little of the fauce, bread-crumbs, and melted butter : bake in the oven till of a good colour ; ferve with Pontiff Sauce. DaU ry triple, 166. Lo few a Lamb's Head. In order to dew a lamb’s head, walh it and pick it very clean. Lay it in water for an hour, take out the brains, and with a fharp knife carefully extract the bones and the tongue; but be careful to avoid breaking the meat. Then take out the eyes. Take two pounds of veal, and two pounds of beef fuet, a very little thyme, a good piece of lemon-peel minced, a nut- meg grated, and two anchovies. Having chopped all thefe well together, grate two dale rolls, and mix all with the yolks of four eggs. Save enough of this meat to make about twenty balls. Take half a pint of fredi mudirooms, clean peeled and waflt- ed, the yolks of fix eggs chopped, half a pint of oyders clean wafhed, or pickled cockles. Mix all thefe together; but fird dew your oyders, and put to them two quarts of gravy, with a blade or two of mace. Tie the head with packthread, cover it clofe, and let it dew two hours. While this is doing, beat up the brains with fome lemon-peel cut fine, a little chopped parf- ley, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg. Fry the brains in little cakes in boiling dripping, and fry the balls, and keep them both hot. Take half an ounce of truffles and morels, and drain the gravy the head was dewed in. Put to it the truffles and morels, and a few mudirooms, and boil all together; then put in the red of the brail is that are not fried, and dew them together for a minute or two. Pour this over the head, lay