62 Made Difhes of Veal. To flew a Breajl of Veal in its own fauce. Put a bread of veal into a dew-pan of its own length, with a little broth, a glafs of white wine, a faggot of fweet herbs, a few mulhrooms, a little coriander tied in a bag, diced roots, onions, pepper, and fait ; ftew it flowly till very tender. When ready to ferve, drain and fkim the fauce, and ferve it upon the meat. Clomont, 103. Breajl of Veal Jlewed white. Cut a piece off each end; make a force meat as follows :— Boil the fweetbread, and cut it very fmall, fome grated bread, a little beef fuet, two eggs, a little cream, fome nutmeg, fait and pepper ; mix: it well together, and fluff the thin part of the bread with fome of it, the red make up into little balls; fkewer the fkin clofe down, flour and boil it in a cloth in milk and water; make fome gravy of the ends that were cut off, with half a pint of oyflers, the juice of a lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; when the veal is enough, put it in the difh. Garnifh with the balls dewed, and pour the fauce over it. Breajl of Veal Jlezved with Peas or Afparagus. Cut it into pieces about three inches in fize, fry it nicely ; mix a little flour with fome beef broth, an onion, two or three cloves; dew this fome time, drain it, add three pints or two quarts of peas, or fome heads of afparagus cut like peas ; put in the meat, let it dew gently ; add pepper and fait. Breajl of Veal in Hodge Podge. Take a bread of veal, cut the brifket into little pieces, and every bone afunder, then flour it, and put half a pound of good butter into a dew-pan ; when it is hot, throw in the veal, fry it all over of a fine light brown, and then have ready a tea-kettle of water boiling; pour it in the dew-pan, fill it up, and dir it round ; throw in a pint of green peas, a fine lettuce whole, clean walhed, two or three blades of mafe, a little w'hole pep- per tied in a muflin rag, a little bundle of fw'eet herbs, a fmall onion duck with a few cloves, and a little fait. Cover it clofe, and let it dew one hour, or till it is boiled to .your palate, it you would