z6° Of Puddings] naif a pint of cream. Then ftir in the bread and carrot, half a pound of frefh butter melted, half a pint of fack, three fpoon- fuls of orange flower-water, and a nutmeg grated. Sweeten to your palate. Mix all well together, and if it is not thin enough, ftir in a little new milk or cream. Let it be of a moderate thicknefs, lay a puff pafte all over the difh, and pour in the in- gredients. It will take an hour’s baking. If you would boil it, you muft melt butter, and put in white wine and fugar. Green Codling Pudding. Green about a quart of codlings as for a pie, rub them through a hair fieve, with as much of the juice of beets as will green your pudding; put in the crumb of half a penny-loaf, half a pound of butter, and three eggs well beaten ; beat them all together with half a pound of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of cyder. Lay a good pafte round the rim of the difh, and pour it in. Raffald, 17&. From Majon, 377, with very little alter- ation. A Cujlard Pudding. Put a piece of cinnamon in a pint of thick cream ; boil it; add a quarter of a pound of fugar ; when cold, add the yolks of five eggs well beaten; ftir this over the fire till pretty thick, but you Ihould not let it boil. When quite cold, butter a cloth well, duft it with flour,, tie the cuftard in it very clofe, boil it three quarters of an hour. When taken up, put it into a bafon to cool a little ; untie the cloth, lay the difh on the bafon, turn it up. If the cloth is not taken off carefully, the pudding will break ; grate over it a little fugar. Melted butter, and a little wine in a boat. Raffald, 169, from Majon, 369 ; with this difference, Mrs. Majon recommends but Jive eggs, Mrs. Raffald, fix. ' Damajcene Dumplings. Having made a good hot pafte cruft, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a bafon, and put in a proper quantity of damafcenes ; wet the edge of the pafte, and clofe it up ; boil it in a cloth one hour and fend it up whole ; pour melted butter over it, and grate fugar round the edge of the difh. N. B. Dumplings may be made from any kind of prefervei fruit, in the fame manner. Raffald, 183. Goojeberry Pudding. Scald a pint of green goofeberries, and rub them through a fieve ; put to them half a pound of fugar, and an equal quantity of butter, two or three Naples’ bifcuits, and four eggs well „ - - beaten > A