Creams. 3*9 grows quite thick. When your cream is all frozen up, take it out of the tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of. Then put on the lid, and have ready another tub, with fait and ice in it as before. Put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice under and over it; let it Hand four or five hours, and dip your tin in warm water when you turn it out ; but, if it be fummer, remember not to turn it out till the mo- ment you want it. If you have not apricots, any other fruit will anfwer the purpofe, provided you take care to work them very fine in your mortar. Raffald, 312. Hartfforn Cream. r Take four ounces of hartfhom (havings, and boil it in three pints of water till it is reduced to half a pint, and run it through a jelly-bag ; put to it a pint of cream and four ounces of fine fugar, and juft boil it up ; put it into cups or glaffes, and let it ftand till it is cold. Dip your cups or glaffes in fcalding wa- ter, and turn them out into your difh ; ftick diced almonds on them. It is generally eaten with white wine and fugar. Glaffe, 292. Mrs. Raffald, page 250, and Mr. Farley, page 311, have the fame receipt, with this fingle alteration—they have left out the four ounces of fugar, which I fuppofe proceeded from a miftake, inftead of being meant as an improvement. Blanched Cream* Seafon a quart of very thick cream with fine fugar and orange-flower water ; boil it and beat the whites of twenty eggs with a little cold cream ; (train it, and when the cream is upon the boil, pour in the eggs, ftirring it very well till it comes to a thick curd \ then take it up, and (train it again through a hair fieve; beat it well with a fpoon till it is~ cold, then put it into a difh. Mafon, 446. JVhipt Cream. Mix a quart of thick cream, the whites of eight eggs beat well, and half a pint of fack ; fweeten to your tafte with dou- ble-refined fugar. You may perfume it, if you pleafe, with a little mulk or ambergris, tied in a rag, and fteeped a little in the cream ; whip it up with a whifk, and fome lemon-peel tied in thp middle ot the whifk ; take the froth with a fpoon, and lay it in your glaffes or bafons. .This does well over a tart. Orange Cream. Take and pare the rind ot a Seville orange very .fine, and fqueeze the juice of four oranges; put them into a ftew-pan witfo