3^2 The Art of Brewing. little birch broom, or brufh. If they are very bad, take out the heads, and let them be ferubbed clean with a hand-brufh, fand, and fullers earth. Put on the head again, and feald it well, then throw in a piece of unflacked lime, and flop the bung clofe. General Rules for Brewing. In the firft place, it is neceflary to have the malt clean, as it ought to ftand four or five days after it is ground. bine ftrong Oiflober fhould have five quarters of malt, and twenty-four pounds of hops, to three hogfheads. This will af- terwards make two hogfheads of good keeping fmall beer, with the addition of five pounds of hops. bor middling beer, a quarter of malt makes a hogfhead of ale, and another of fmall beer \ or it will make three hogfheads of good fmall beer, allowing eight pounds of hops. This will keep all the year. Or it will make twenty gallons of ftrong ale, and two hogfheads of fmall beer, that will keep all the year. Any one who intends to keep ale a great while, fhould allow a pound of hops to every bufhel; if to keep only fix months, five pounds to a hogfhead. If for prefent drinking, three pounds to a hogfhead, and the fofteft and cleareft water you can get. Pour the firft copper of water, when it boils, into your mafh- tub, and let it be cool enough to fee your face in ; then put in your mall, and let it be well mafhed. Have a copper of water boiling in the mean time, 'and when your malt is well mafhed, fill your mafhing-tub ; ftir it well again, and cover it over with the facks. Let it ftand three hours, fet a broad fhallow tub under the cock, let it run very foftly, and if it is thick, throw it up again till it runs fine ; then throw an handful of hops in the un- der tub, let your mafh run into it, and fill your tubs till all is run off. Have water boiling in the copper, and lay as much more on as yon have occafion for, allowing one third for boiling and wafte. Let that ftand an hour, boiling more water to fill the mafh-tub for fmall beer ; let the fire down a little, and put it into tubs enough to fill your mafh. Let the fecond mafh be run off, and fill your copper with the firft wort; put in part of your hops, and make it boil quick. About an hour is long enough- When it has boiled, throw in an handful of fait. Have a clean white wand, and dip it into the copper, and if the wort feels clammy, it is boiled enough ; then flacken your fire, and take off your wort. Have ready a large tub, put two (licks acrofs, and fet your draining bafkets over the tub on the flicks, and ftrain your wort through it. Put your other wort on to bod with the reft of the hops ; let your mafh be covered again with wa-