*°6 • Made Dijhes of Mutton. flour, and a little fait, a fhallot cut fine, a few capers and ger- kins chopped fine ; tofs all together for a minute or two ; have ready lome bread toaflcd and cut into thin fippets, lay then} round the difh, and pour in your hafh. Garni (h your difh with pickles and horfe-radifh. Note.—Some love a glafs of red wine or walnut pickle. You may put juft what you will jnto a hafh. If the fippets are toaft- ed, it is better, Another way. Cut mutton in dices, put a pint of gravy or broth into a toffing-pan, with one fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, and one of browning; dice in an onion, a little pepper and fait, put it over the fire, and thicken it with dour and butter ; when it boils, put in your mutton, keep lhaking it till it is thoroughly hot, put it into a foup-difh, and ferve it up. To ha[h cold Mutton. Cut your mutton with a very diarp knife in very little bits, as thin as podible ; then boil the bones with an onion, a little, fweet herbs, a blade of mace, a very little whole pepper, a lit- tle fait, a piece of cruft toafted very crifp ; let it boil till there is juft enough for fauce, drain it, and put it into a fauce-pan, with a piece of butter rolled in dour ; put in the meat; when it is very hot, it is enough. Seafon with pepper and fait. Have ready fome thin bread toafted brown, cut three-corner ways, lay them round the difh, and pour in the hafh. As to walnut-pickle, and all forts of pickles, you muft put in ac- cording to your fancy. Garnifh with pickles. Some love a fmall onion peeled, cut very fmall, and done in the hafh. Or you may life made gravy, if you have not time to boil the bones, Glaffe, 119. Oxford John. Take^a dale leg of mutton, cut it in as thin collops as you poffibly can, take out all the fat finews, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait; ftrew among them a little (bred parf- ley, thyme, and two or three fhallots ; put a good lump ol butter into a ftew-pan. When it is hot, put in all your col- lops, keep ftirring them with a wooden fpoon till they are three