^ Dishes. FISH, FLESH, & FOWL, SOUPS, SAUCES, & *9 SWEETS, With Household Hints and other Useful information. Price One Shilling. Thirteenth Thousand. Third Edition. Revised and Enlarged. LONDON: JOHN HOGG, 13 PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.ADVERTISEMENTS. FOR INFANTS AND 1NYALIDS. P Swivtbom’s Is'vft^Uss IS THE BEST. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ... R Special Collections urOlllj Cookery Camden 30106023331290 rious.j;< .f. ;r> ” t» te —W *-» i V X - W %eS5B \i ADVERTISEMENT WORLD-FAMED FOR NEAL 550 869522 kl IW ■ Hm l1 London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW33HA —3021 Lcndfng~tibi ai y"^3Q12 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Lending Library hours h nO p\ v stj9?3.<$-5 V ! t \ .< WLT iU^r ni,-c t ^ \ l r’r • ■ • \ . A f .V. • | .A A A a .\s . ** ...... A * sc /r| LA 105 L ) ►ADVERTISEMENTS. « TIME, LABOUR, AND MONEY SAVED BY USING HUGOM’S REFINED BEEF SUET. tcra Brand > "atom" Brand SUPERSEDES RAW SUET. LARD »*> I f on HIMCCHEAT. PUD0IMG3 CARES. PIS CRUST u HURON’S “Atora” Refined BEEF SUET. Indispensable In every Household all the year round. Specially recommended for Summer Use and for Hot Climates. I* supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter for Puddings, Cakes, IVlince Meat, Pie Crust, Firyans1 and Cooking. Prepared from best English Beef Suet only ! Saves trouble of chopping ! Always ready for use ! One pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet 1 It is always sweet! It is particularly Digestible and I It Ic absolutely pure, wholesome.— | P. A. Estcourt, Analyst. It is put up in one pound boxes and sold by most Grocers and Dealers at 8d. per pound. Sole Manufacturers— HUGON & Co., Ltd., PENDLETON, MANCHESTER, Sample sent free on Application to Manufacturers.Toothsome Dishes: FISH, FLESH, AND FOWL; SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SWEETS. WITH HOUSEHOLD HINTS AND OTHER USEFUL INFORMATION. EDITED BY CARRIE DAVENPORT. THIRD AND REVISED EDITION (glebenth ^housaitb. LONDON: OHN HOGG, 13, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C. [All rights reserved.]ADVERTISEMENTS. London: JOHN HOGG, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C» BIRD’S L *'£ CUSTARD POWDER T 869522 fifa0 Provides not only delicious Custard, but an end- less variety of delightful, dainty Dishes. BIRO’S Cystard advantageously takes the place of Cream with Fresh, Stewed, or Tinned Fruit. It enhances the flavour ; is rich, agree- able, and wholesome, and will never disagree. Used by all the leading- Diplomees of the South Ken sing-ton School of Cookery. No Eggs. / No Rjsj^ / No Trouble^! Crown 8vo., 128 pages, boards, price Is. The Housewife’s Handy-hook. %hxzz gljmvbrtb aith J$a*ri£fezfxd (Eberp-liai) ^iccipcs. r, Autfro$Best Thing to Do,” etc. implement to an ordinary cookery or household book. . . . iparad^p^.’^—Independent. 'cap, 8vo,, 152 pp., price Is. rinks of all Kinds gtjot aitb CMb, fox all ^S-easons (inducing %zm^zxnncz anh gRcstoratibt prinks). By FREDERICK and SEYMOUR DAVIES. “ This is a oapital little manual, containing numerous recipes for the best summer and winter drinks, both British and Foreign.”—Sheffield Independent.PREFACE. This volume has been compiled mainly for housewives of moderate means. Care, therefore, has been taken to include in it few recipes which cannot be carried out at a reasonable cost. An effort has been made, too, to exclude, except in rare instances, recipes which are not of absolute and definite utility. Variety has been aimed at, and, it is hoped, attained, but dishes of a purely fanciful character have seldom been inserted. The object of the compiler has been rather to produce a book which should be constantly of use to the mistresses of ordinary households—a book which, they should be able to consult at all times with advantage. Opening with an introduction in which is embodied much information on such subjects as cooking utensils, the times at which certain food is in season, and so forth, the book goes on to deal in succession with soups, sauces, fish, meat, poultry, game, vegetables, sweets, forcemeats, eggs, cheese, etc. A section is devoted to the modes of ‘ using up 5 meat, and another contains full directions for preparing food for invalids. In the miscellaneous section will be found a large variety of extra recipes, whilst in the Appendix are included a number of hints on household subjects*PREFACE. IV In drawing up the recipes, and the introductions to them, the compiler has endeavoured to combine clearness with ful- ness and accuracy. She has relied, in the first place, on her own personal experience; but she has taken care, also, to avail herself of the experience of many competent cooks, for whose valuable aid she begs to express her thanks. She has also to record her indebtedness to authorities on cooking for many suggestions embodied by her in the following pages. In order to facilitate reference to particular dishes, a com- prehensive index has been supplied, and will, it is hoped, be found useful. C. D.CONTENTS Introduction ------- Food in Season—Tables of Weigh Is and Measures—A Ready Reckoner, to check Bills—Articles necessary for cooking purposes—Condiments to keep in Stock - Soups -------- Sauces -------- Fish -------- Meats Poultry and Game To Use up Cold Meat, etc. - Vegetables - Pickles -------- Preserves ....... Forcemeat, etc. Pastry - Puddings Sweets, etc. - Cakes, Scones, etc. Eggs, Cheese, etc. ------ Invalid Cookery ...... Miscellaneous - - - Household Hints - Index • - PAGH 7 7 13 25 32 45 67 75 80 89 91 95 97 102 117 125 138 144 152 161 167ADVERTISEMENTS. London: JOHN HOGG, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. / \ COOKERY FOR INVALIDS AND OTHERS. Small crown 8vocloth. Price 2s. 6d. ©SWEG© 'A RED IS THE ORIGINAL 0F/4LL CORN FLOURS GOES FARTHEST ' AND GIVES GREATEST SATISFACTION By LIZZIE HERITAGE, First Class Diplomee and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy. 1 The list of dishes is copious and well selected, so that no difficulty will be found in providing ample variety to tempt fastidious appetites. The author has not introduced any article which is either troublesome to procure or too expensive for ordinary households, and she has made her directions for cooking and serving plain enough to be easily followed.”—Lancet.INTRODUCTION. tfoob in January. Meat.—Beef, house lamb, mut- ton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry and Game.—Capons, fowls, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, tame pigeons, pullets, rabbits, snipe, turkeys, wild fowl, woodcock. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lob- sters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. Vegetables.—Beetroot, brocoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, turnips, various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears, walnuts, crys- tallized preserves (foreign), dried fruits, as almonds and raisins, French and Spanish plums, prunes, figs, dates. February. Meat.—Beef, house lamb, mut- ton, pork, veal. Poultry and Game.—Capons, chickens, ducklings, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, tame and wild pigeons, pullets with eggs, snipes, turkeys, woodcock. Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod (not so good as in Jan.), crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, had- docks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. 'Vegetables.—Beetroot, brocoli (purple and white), Brussels sprouts, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, turnips, various herbs. Fruit. — Apples (golden and Dutch pippins), grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears (Bon Chretien), walnuts, dried fruits (foreign), as almonds and raisins, French and Spanish plums, prunes, figs, dates, crystallized preserves. March. Meat.—Beef, house lamb, mut- ton, pork, veal. Poultry and Game.—Capons, chickens, ducklings, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, pigeons (tame and wild), pullets, snipes, turkeys, woodcock. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, had- docks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice,8 FOOD IN SEASON. prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. Vegetables.—Beetroot, brocoli (purple and white),Brussels sprouts, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, sea-kale, spinach, turnips, various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears (Bon Chretien), walnuts, dried fruits (foreign), as almonds and raisins, French and Spanish plums, prunes, figs, dates, crystallized preserves. April. Meat. — Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, ducklings,, fowls, hares, leverets, pigeons, pullets, rabbits. Fish.—Brill, carp, cockles, crabs, dory, flounders, ling, lobsters, mul- let (red and gray), mussels, oysters, perch, prawns, salmon (scarce and expensive), shad, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, tench, turbot, whit- ings. Vegetables. — Brocoli, celery, lettuces, young onions, parsnips, radishes, small salad, sea-kale, spi- nach, sprouts, various herbs. Fruit. — Apples, nuts, pears, forced cherries, strawberries, etc., rhubarb, dried fruits, crystallized preserves. May. Meat. — Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, pullets, rabbits. Fish.—Carp, chub, crabs, cray- fish, dory, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet (red and grey), I prawns, salmon, shad, smelts, soles, trout, turbot. Vegetables.—Asparagus, beans, early cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cresses, cucumbers, lettuces, peas, early potatoes, salads, sea-kale, various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, green apricots, cherries, currants for tarts, goose- berries, melons, pears, rhubarb, strawberries. June. Meat. — Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey poults, wheatears. Fish.—Carp, crayfish, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, pike, prawns, salmon, soles, tench, trout, turbot. Vegetables.—Artichokes, aspa- ragus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, lettuces, onions, pars- nips, peas, potatoes, radishes, small salads, sea-kale, spinach, various herbs. For Pickling.—Garlic. Fruit.—Apricots, cherries, cur- rants, gooseberries, melons, necta- rines, peaches, pears, pineapples, raspberries, rhubarb, strawberries. July. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey poults, wheatears, wild ducks. Fish. — Carp, crayfish, dory, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lob- sters, mackerel, mullet, pike, plaice, prawns, salmon, shrimps, soles, sturgeon, tench, thornback. Vegetables.—Artichokes, aspa-9 FOOD IN SEASON. rag us, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, radishes, small salads, sea kale, sprouts, turnips, vegetable mar- rows, various herbs. For Pickling.—French beans, red cabbage, cauliflowers, garlic, gherkins, nasturtiums, onions. Fruit.—Apricots, cherries, cur- rants, figs, gooseberries, melons, nectarines, pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries, strawberries. August. Meat. — Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry and Game. — Black- cock, chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, grouse, leverets, pigeons, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey poults, wheatears, wild ducks. Fish.—Brill, carp, chub, cray- fish, crabs, dory, eels, flounders, grigs, herrings, lobsters, mullet, pike, prawns, salmon, shrimps, skate, soles, sturgeon, thornback, trout, turbot. Vegetables.—Artichokes, aspa- ragus, beans, carrots, cabbages, cauliflowers, celery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, potatoes, radishes, sea-kale, small salads, sprouts, turnips, various kitchen herbs, vegetable marrows. For Pickling.—Red cabbage, capsicums, chillies, tomatoes, wal- nuts. Fruit.-—Currants, figs, filberts, gooseberries, grapes, melons, mul- berries, nectarines, peaches, pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries. September. Meat. — Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. Poultry and Game.—Black- cock, buck venison, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, grouse, hares, larks, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, turkeys. Fish.—Bloaters, brill, carp, cod, eels, flounders, herrings, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, turbot, whitings, whitebait. Vegetables.—Artichokes, aspa- ragus, beans, cabbage sprouts, carrots, celery, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, potatoes, salading, sea-kale, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, various herbs. Fruit.— Bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, melons, morella cherries, mulberries, nectarines, peaches, pears, plnms, quinces, walnuts. October. Meat. —• Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry and Game. — Black- cock, chickens, fowls, geese, groups, hares, larks, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, snipes, teal, turkeys, widgeons, wild ducks, woodcocks, doe venison. Fish.—Barbel, brill, cod, crabs, eels, flounders, gudgeons, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, tench, turbot, whitings. Vegetables.—Artichokes, beets, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, potatoes, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, black and white bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, pears, quinces, walnuts. November. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, doe venison. Poultry and Game.—Chickens,FOOD IN SEASON. 10 fowls, geese, hares, larks, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, snipes, teal, turkeys, widgeons, wild ducks, woodcocks. Fish.—Brill, carp, cod, crabs, eels, gudgeons, haddocks, oysters, pike, soles, tench, turbot, whitings. Vegetables. — Beetroot, cab- bages, carrots, celery, lettuces, late cucumbers, onions, potatoes, salad- ing, spinach, sprouts, various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, bullaces, chest- nuts, filberts, grapes, pears, walnuts. December. Meat. — Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, venison. Poultry and G-ame.—Capons, chickens, fowls, geese, hares, par- tridges, pheasants, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, snipes, teal, turkeys, wid- geons, wild ducks, woodcocks. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, dace, gudgeons, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, oysters, perch, pike, shrimps, skate, sprats, soles, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. V egetables.—Brocoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, pota- toes, parsnips, Scotch kale, turnips, winter spinach. Fruit.—Apples, chestnuts, fil- berts, grapes, medlars, oranges, pears, walnuts, dried fruits, as almonds, and raisins, figs, dates, etc.; crystallized preserves. TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Avoirdupois grains ... = 16 drachms ... = 16 ounces ... - 14 pounds ... = 28 pounds 4 quarters 20 hundred- weight Weight. 1 drachm. 1 ounce. 1 pound (lb.). 1 stone. 1 quarter (qr.). 1 hundred- weight. = 1 ton. Troy. 24 grains { 1 j U&s- 20q$s}lOTmCe =48°” 12 ounces =1 pound =5,760 „ Apothecaries’. Troy. 20 grains = 1 scruple = 20 grs. 3 scruples =1 drachm = 60 „ 8 drachms = 1 ounce = 480 „ 12 ounces =1 pound =5,760 „ Apothecaries’ Fluid Measure. 60 minims = 1 fluid drachm. 8 drachms = 1 ounce. 20 ounces = 1 pint. 8 pints = 1 gallon. Liquid Measure. 4 gills = 1 pint (pt.). 2 pints = 1 quart (qt.). 4 quarts = 1 gallon (gall.). Dry Measures. 2 gallons - 1 peck (pk.). 4 pecks — 1 bushel (bush.). 3 bushels = 1 sack. 12 sacks = 1 chaldron. 8 bushels — 1 quarter (qr.). 5 quarters = 1 load (Id.).11 A READY RECKONER. A READY RECKONER, TO CHECK BILLS. Pounds. Ounces. oz. 4d. 4\d. 5d. 51cl. 6d. 61 d. 7 d. 7£d. 8 d. 8 Id. 9d. 9 Id. lOd. 101d. lid. Hid. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 H 11 11 11 3 f 1 1 1 1 1 11 11 11 11 H 11 If If 2 2 4 1 1 11 11 11 11 11 11 2 2 21 21 21 21 2f 21 5 11 11 11 11 11 2 2 21 21 21 21 21 3 31 31 31 6 n 11 11 O 21 21 21 21 3 3 31 31 31 31 4 4i 7 if If 2 21 21 21 3 31 31 31 31 4 41 41 4f 5 8 2 21 21 21 3 31 31 31 4 41 4-1 41 5 51 51 51 9 21 21 2f 3 31 31 31 4 41 41 5 51 51 5f 0 61 10 21 2f 3 31 31 4 41 41 5 51 51 51 61 61 61 7 11 2f 3 31 31 4 41 41 5’ 51 51 6 61 6f 71 71 12 3 31 31 4 41 41 51 51 6 61 61 7 71 7f 81 81 13 31 31 4 41 41 51 51 6 61 61 71 71 8 81 81 91 14 31 3f 41 41 51 51 6 61 7 71 71 81 81 9 91 10 15 3f 4 41 5 51 6 61 7 71 71 81 81 91 91 101 10f Explanation. The above tables will enable you to calculate how much your meat, grocery, and other weighable articles cost at so much a pound. The number of pounds is given in the first column of the first table, and, by running the finger along the line till the price per lb. is reached, you will there find the total cost of the pounds. Do the same in the case of the ounces ; add the two sums together, and you get the total cost of the article. Thus, in the case of an article weighing 12 lbs. 11 oz., 12 lbs. at ll^d. cost 11s. 6d., and 11 oz. at the same price cost 7#d.— total, 12s. lfd.12 ARTICLES NECESSARY FOR COOKING PURPOSES List of Articles Necessary for Cooking Purposes. Basting Ladle, 1 [1 Bottle Jack and Screen, Bread Grater, 1 Butter Pats, 1 pair of Chopping Board, 1 Coffee Mill, 1 Coffee Pot, 1 Colander, 1 Egg Whisk, 1 Egg Slice, 1 Eish Kettle, 1 Fish Scissors, 1 pair of Flour Dredger, 1 Frying Pans, 2 Girdle, or Hot Plate, 1 Gravy Strainer, 1 Gridiron, 1 Jelly Moulds, 2 Knives and Forks, 6 Larding Pin, 1 Lemon Squeezer, 1 Meat Chopper, 1 Meat Saw, 1 Meat Tin, 1 Mincing Knife, 1 Omelet Pan, 1 Paste Board, 1 Paste Cutters, 1 box of Patty Pans, 1 doz. Pepper Box, 1 Pestle and Mortar, 1 Pot, 1 Boiling Preserving Pan, 1 Pudding Basin, 1 Rolling Pin, 1 Saucepan, 1 double* Saucepan and Steamer, 1 Saucepans, 3 or 4 Iron Scales, 1 pair of Sieves, 2 Hair Skewers, 1 set of Soup Digester, 1 Spice Box, 1 Spoons, 2 Iron Spoons, 2 Wooden Stewpans, 2 Tea Kettles, 2 Tins, 2 Cake Toast Fork, 1 Toaster, 1 List of CDndiments, etc., for Keeping in Stock. Allspice. Arrowroot. Baking Powder. Blancmange Powder. Candied Peel (mixed). Capers. Caraway Seeds. Cinnamon. Corn Flour. Currants. Curry Powder. Custard Powder. Egg Powuw.'. Essences (L e m o n, Ratafia, etc.). Farina. Flour. Fruit (preserved). Gelatine. Ginger. Herbs (dried). Isinglass. Jams. Jellies. Ketchup. Lemon (a). Lentilla. Liebig (1 Jar). Macaroni. Mace. Mushrooms (pickled). Mustard. Nutmeg. Oatmeal (Scotch). Oil (Olive and Salad). Onions. Pearl Barley. Peas (flour and split). Pepper (black, white, cayenne). Peppercorns. Pickles (different kinds). Raisins. Rice (whole and ground). Sago. Salt (table and kitchen). Saltpetre. Sauces. Semolina. Sugar (loaf, moist, and pounded). Syrup. Tapioca. Treacle. Vegetables (compress- ed). Vermicelli. Vinegar. [Of the above articles the Housekeeper should lay in only sufficient to last a month.] * No family should be without this very useful utensil. It consists of a double block tin saucepan, the smaller pan fitting into the larger. In the latter you place enough boiling or hot water to cook or keep warm the contents of the smaller pan. For making porridge or beef-tea it is excellent.Soups, .On the attractions and virtues of soups in general it is scarcely necessary to descant. A well-ordered dinner is impossible without them, and the prudent housewife puts them forward as often as cir- cumstances demand or allow. The light sorts are an excellent prepara- tion for more solid fare ; the more substantial kinds are economical in the sense of ‘ breaking the back ’ of appetite. The former are of especial service to invalids, not only as affording nutriment, but because they have the effect of drawing the blood away from the head, in order to assist the stomach to perform its functions. Soups may be divided broadly into two classes—brown and white ; the basis of the first being mainly beef, and of the second mainly veal. Yet, in truth, the basis of soup—i.e. ‘ stock ’—may be made up of very varied materials. The liquor in which meat has been boiled, the bones taken from any joint or piece of poultry, meat or poultry ‘ trimmings,’ sheep’s head, calf’s head, ox-cheek, and so on—all of these supply admirable matter for the stock-pot. The preparation of the stock is, of course, half the battle. Ordinarily a quart of water goes to every pound of meat (without bone) ; and the water in which the meat is placed, to begin with, must be cold and soft. The meat should be as fresh and as lean as possible ; it should simmer slowly (never boil), in order that the goodness may be fully extracted ; and the liquor should be skimmed carefully, to remove the albumen that rises to the surface. It should not be allowed ever to get cool. When making stock from bones, the cook should cause her material to boil rapid)y, as by that means the gelatine in it is most thoroughly brought out. The gelatine, of course, is the property which it is desired to extract, and it could not be got at by mere simmering. After having been once boiled, the bones can be broken up, and further gelatine obtained by boiling. Meat for stock should be cut up into small pieces ; vegetables should be sliced or grated. The condiments should not be added till just before the process of boiling or simmering is completed, as they have the effect of hardening the meat, etc., with which they come in contact The stock-jar should be large in the mouth and glazed on the inside. It should he kept, too, when full, in a cool place. Before being used again, it should be cleaned with great thoroughness, the interior being scalded and afterwaids washed with soda and water.14 SOUPS. A few plain soups can be made without stock at all, or even without water in which meat has been boiled. Pea, haricot, and lentil soup, for instance, can be concocted with plain water. All soups are improved by the addition of a crust of bread, nicely browned, and then stewed in the liquor with the meat. A piece of liver, too, will give a good brown colour to gravy or julienne. Economical Stock. Ingredients.—Theliquorin which a joint of meat has been boiled ; anything the larder may contain in the way of scraps of fresh meat, poultry, etc., shank bones, roast- beef bones, etc. ; a few bits of vegetables; pepper, mace, and savoury herbs. Method.—Place all the ingredi- ents together in a pan ; simmer gently for six hours, being careful to skim often and thoroughly ; and then strain off. Medium Stock. Ingredients.—4 lb. of shin of beef (or of knuckle of veal), or 2 lb. of each ; any odd bits of meat or poultry; ^ lb. of bacon or ham ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 onions (stuck with cloves); 1 turnip ; 3 carrots ; 1 head of celery; 3 lumps of sugar; 2 oz. of salt; ^ a teaspoonful of white pepper ; 1 blade of mace ; 1 bunch of savoury herbs ; 4 quarts and \ pint of water. Method.—Butter the bottom of the stewpan ; put in the j- pint of water ; and then add all the ingredients, taking care previously to cut the meat and ham into pieces of about 2 or 3 inches. Cover the stewpan and place it on a quick fire, stirring the contents occasion- ally. In the course of half an hour, the bottom of the pan will become covered with a pale, jelly- like substance. Then add the 4 quarts of water, and simmer gently for five hours. Skim as frequently as necessary, and finally strain through a hair sieve. A richer stock may be made, including not only the shin of beef but the knuckle of veal also, a few chopped mushrooms, and a tomato. The above-described stock will, however, be found adequate for all ordinary occasions. Stock for White Soups. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean ham ; 5 lb. knuckle, or neck of veal ; 2 onions ; 2 carrots; 1 head of celery; 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns ; 1 blade of mace; salt to taste ; 4 quarts of water. Method.—Wash the veal well, cut it into three or four pieces and place it with the ham, thickly sliced, in the soup-pot. Add ^ pint of water and simmer gently till the gravy begins to flow from the meat, then pour in the remainder of the water, add the other ingre- dients, and simmer very gently for six or seven hours; skim thoroughly; strain through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required. For very rich soup allow 1 pint of water to 1 lb. of meat. Browning for Stock. Ingredients.—2 oz. of powdered sugar and \ pint of water. Method.—Place the sugar in a stewpan, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it melts and becomes black. Then add the water, and allow the sugar to dissolve in it. Pour into a bottle; cork tightly, and use a few droos as needed.15 SOUPS. How to Clarify Stock. Ingredients.—1 quart of stock ; \ pint of water ; 1 egg. Method.—Take the white of the egg, whisk it well together with the water, and, whilst whisking, add it gradually to the stock, which must have been previously warmed. Place the soup on the fire, and when it is boiling skim it. Then whisk it well, put it at the side of the fire, and let it settle. Pass it through a fine cloth, and it should then be clear. Beef Soup. Ingredients.—5 lb. of the shin of beef; the knuckle bone of ham, or any other bones and trimmings of meat; 2turnips; 2carrots; 2 onions; 1 parsnip ; 1 head of celery; 1 tea- spoonful of sugar; 3cloves; 3 leeks; pepper and salt; 6 quarts of water. Method.—Cut all the meat from the bones in nice square pieces. Boil the bones and trimmings for 6 hours, keeping the pot closely covered all the time. Strain, and when cold remove the fat. Put the meat in the cold liquor ; cut the vegetables into small pieces, and add them to the meat with the seasoning. Let the whole sim- mer gently till the meat is quite tender. Bread Soup. Ingredients.—1 large onion ; 1 turnip; 1 quart of water; 2 oz. of French roll; 1 pint of milk; 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Method.—Boil the onion and the turnip in the water. When they are done, rub them through a sieve and place them—-with the French roll broken up into small pieces-^-in the water in which they have been boiled. Boil for half an hour, stirring the while ; and should there be any sign of stick- ing, pour in a little water occa- sionally. At the end of the half hour, add, gradually, the milk, or as much of it as will make the soup sufficiently thick. Then, boiling- point having been reached, add the butter, salt, and pepper, stir well, and serve. Cabbage Soup. Ingredients. — 1 large cabbage ; 1| pint of boiling water; 1 pint of milk; 1 shalot; 1 tablespoonful of parsley (chopped); 1 oz. of butter; a little salt and pepper; 2 table- spoonfuls of semolina, and 1 slice of toasted bread. Method.—Place some water in a saucepan to boil. Shred the cab- bage, and, when the water boils, put the shreds into the saucepan for five minutes. Strain the cab- bage, and replace it in the pan, together with the pint of boiling water, the milk, the shalot and parsley (both minced), the butter and the seasoning. Boil for fifteen minutes, add the semo- lina, and boil for another ten minutes. Cut the toasted bread into small slices, put them in a tureen, and pour the soup upon them. Calf’s-head Soup. Ingredients.—Half a calf’s head; 2 onions; a few sweet herbs; 1 blade of mace ; a few cloves ; salt and white pepper to taste; 3 table- spoonfuls of ketchup; 3 quarts of pot-liquor or water ; and 4 or 5 oz. of ground rice. Method.—Soak the head in salt and water for six hours ; clean it well) and put it in the saucepan16 SOUPS. with the pot-liquor or water ; add the onions and herbs, and let it boil for three hours, removing the scum as it rises. Take out the head, cut it into small pieces, and strain the soup. Mix the ground rice with the ketchup, and thicken the soup with it. Season, and let the whole simme*: for ten minutes. A glass of sherry improves the soup. Carrot Soup. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, 4| pints of brown gravy soup, salt and cayenne. Method..—Scrape and wash the carrots thoroughly, dry them, and cut them into quarter-inch pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the cut carrots. Stew gently for an hour without browning ; add the gravy-soup, and simmer for fifty or sixty minutes. Rub through a sieve or strainer ; add condiments to taste ; boil gently for five minutes, takeoff the scum, and serve very hot, with bread cut into dice and fried. (Add to the soup thus made, 3 oz. of Scotch or pearl barley, soaked for a night, and stewed slowly next day for an hour and a half in a quart of broth; and the result will be found very appetizing. Another way is to reduce somewhat the amount of carrots and use 3 oz. of rice previ- ously swollen in broth till tender.) Celery Soup. Ingredients.—2 quarts of stock : £ pint of cream or milk ; 4 heads of celery ; 4 oz. of flour. Method. — After washing the celery thoroughly, cut it up, and, adding it to the stock, let the two simmer gently for half an hour or more till well done. Add a thick- ening, made of the flour; and boil the whole for three minutes, stirring the while. Rub the soup through a sieve; replace it in the sauce- pan; add the cream; stir; and boil again. Serve with crusts of bread, fried. Chestnut Soup. Ingredients.— 2 quarts of chest- nuts ; 1 quart of water ; 1 pint of milk; 1 gill of cream; 4 eggs; 2 oz. of fresh butter; a pinch of sugar and of grated nutmeg; salt and pepper. Method.—Shell the chestnuts (by boiling them for a minute, a cut having been made in the side of each nut before putting them in the water). Beat up the yolks of the eggs. Put the nuts into the water in a saucepan; cook slowly, rub through a sieve, and put back on the fire, stirring them till they boil. Then add the milk, the cream, the yolks of the eggs, the butter, the sugar, the nutmeg, with salt and pepper in moderation. Serve with bread fried in butter. Cock-a-leekie. Ingredients.—1 capon or large fowl (trussed as for boiling) ; 2 or 3 bunches of leeks : 5 quarts of medium stock ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the fowl into the stock, along with half of the leeks, from which shall have been taken the roots and part of the heads, and which shall also have been cut up into half-inch pieces. Let the whole simmer gently for half an hour, after which add the remain- der of the leeks. Again simmer— this time for three or four hours. Mix carefully and season to taste. Finally, take out the fowl, carve it neatly, place the pieces in a tureen, and pour the soup over them.17 SOUPS. (The above, -without the fowl, would of course be leek-soup sim- ply, and as such would be found very palatable. For cock-a-leekie, an old cock—from which the dish takes its name — is sometimes used.) Cucumber Soup. Ingredients. — 1 cucumber; a small piece of butter ; 1 quart of ordinary stock ; a little chervil and sorrel; 2 eggs ; 1 gill of cream ; salt and pepper. Method. — Pare the cucumber, which should be a tolerably large one ; quarter it, taking out the seeds ; cut it into thin slices, which put on a plate with a little salt (to draw the water from them) ; drain them, and put them in a stewpan, with the butter. When they are warmed through, pour the stock over them ; add the chervil and sorrel, season to taste, and boil for three-quarters of an hour. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream, and add to the disn before serving. Egg Soup. Ingredients.—2 onions ; a little butter ; 3 pints of water ; 1 table- spoonful of flour ; j pint of milk ; | teaspoonful of salt ; a pinch of pepper ; a pinch of sifted sugar ; 4 eggs, and 2 oz. of pulled bread. Method.—Slice the onions, and fry them in the butter to a light brown. Add the water, and let it reduce by boiling to a quart. When the onions are tender, strain the liquor from them, and put them aside. Let the liquor boil, and add to it the flour mixed smooth in the milk, the salt, the pepper, and the sugar. Stir the soup till it thickens, remove it from the fire, and stir in slowly the yolks of the eggs. Place in the soup-tureen the pulled bread (or slices of roll dried in the oven), pour the soup over it, and serve. Scotch Fish Soup. Ingredients. — 4 haddocks ; 4 quarts of beef stock ; 5 onions ; 1 turnip ; 1 carrot ; parsley ; pepper and salt. Method.—Skin the haddocks and take out all the bones ; cut these into pieces about 2 inches long -, then put the heads, skins, and bones, well washed, into the beef stock, with 3 onions, and let the whole boil for an hour. Next strain the soup into a clean saucepan ; add 2 onions (chopped small), a turnip, and a carrot ; and let the soup boil for five minutes. Add the pieces of fish and the parsley (minced), and boil again for eight minutes. Take out the turnip and carrot, and season to taste. German Soup. Ingredients.—f lb. neck of mut- ton ; 2| quarts of water ; 2 large onions ; 4 potatoes ; 1 carrot ; j lb. rice ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the mutton in the water, and, when it boils, add the onions and potatoes (both chopped fine) and the carrots (grated). Then boil for two hours, at the end of which add the rice (well washed), s,nd let the whole boil for half an hour more. Season to taste. Hotch Potch. Ingredients.—2 lb. of scrag-end of mutton ; 6 pints of water ; 1 fore-quarter of lamb; 5 young 2SOUPS. 18 turnips ; 7 young carrots ; 1 cab- bage ; 6 small leeks ; f peck of green peas (or half that quantity of peas and half of kidney beans) ; 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little black pepper. Method.—Place the mutton in a large pot, with the meat side down- wards ; add the water, and, when it boils, put in the lamb, the turnips, the leeks (minced fine), and 5 of the carrots whole, the other 2 being grated. Put in, also, the heart of the cabbage, tied round with fine twine, and the outside tender leaves, minced fine; boil for an hour or an hour and a quarter, according to the weight of the lamb, adding to the soup—about twenty or twenty-five minutes be- fore it is ready for dishing—the peas (or peas and beans). If beans are used, take only the green part in the inside of each bean. Add, finally, the salt and pepper.—Take care that the pot used is large enough to hold all the ingredients, with a margin to prevent the water boiling over. The heart of the cabbage is intended to be eaten with the lamb, which should be boiled slowly and taken out when sufficiently cooked. This soup, it may be added, can only be made in perfection when the vegetables are young and sweet. Hotch Potch is also made with a lamb’s head and pluck, the liver and kernels being left for frying. The whole should be washed very clean. The head, having been split open, should be tied together with a small piece of twine, to prevent the brains from getting into the soup. Moreover, unless the scrag- end of mutton is used with the head, a pint less water must be put in, or the soup will be poor. Kidney Soup. (1). Ingredients.—3 lb. of the shin of beef, or any bones and trimmings of dressed meat; 1 turnip ; 2 car- rots ; 1 head of celery; 2 beef kidneys ; browned flour ; butter ; a little ketchup and Worcestershire sauce ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables ; put them into the soup-pot with about 3 quarts of water ; boil till the meat is in rags, then strain. This should be done the day before the stock is required. To prepare the soup next day, wash, dry, and slice the kidneys ; brown them nicely in butter, cut them into dice, and put them into the stock (previously heated). Make a thickening of the flour and remaining ingredients ; pour it into the pan in which the kidneys were fried ; let it come to the boil, stir- ring the while ; then add to the soup. Boil the whole three hours, and serve. Kidney Soup (2). Ingredients. — Liquor from a boiled leg of mutton ; 1 bullock’s kidney ; 3 sticks of celery ; 3 or 4 turnips ; 3 or 4 carrots ; bunch of sweet herbs (tied together); pepper and salt; 1 spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Method.—Place the kidney in the liquor, put it on the fire, and, when it is half done, take it out and cut it into dice. Cut the celery, tur- nips, and carrots into small pieces, and add them, with the herbs, to the kidney, seasoning to taste. Boil slowly for five or six hours, adding meanwhile the ketchup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup, which will be all the better if made the day before it is wanted.SOUPS. 19 Leek Soup. (See ‘ Cock-a-Leekie.’) Lentil Soup. Ingredients.—1 pint of Egyptian lentils; 1 large onion; 1 small carrot; 1 small turnip ; 3 sticks of celery ; 2 quarts of water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the lentils well; cut the vegetables small ; and boil the two together in the water for two or three hours, stirring now and then, till done. Then rub through a wire-sieve (and through a hair- sieve afterwards, if possible) ; season to taste ; and make hot, stirring the while. Serve with crusts of bread, fried. Macaroni Soup. Ingredients.—Some bones ; some salt ; 2 carrots ; 1 large turnip ; 4 leeks ; 2 onions ; 2 cloves ; 1 blade of mace ; some peppercorns, and \ lb. of macaroni. Method.—Break the bones small, and place them in a saucepan full of water, so that there is not only enough to cover them, but a quart more. Boil, and add salt mean- while. Wash and cut up the vege- tables, sticking the cloves into the onions ; skim the soup thoroughly, and add the vegetables, mace, and peppercorns. Simmer gently for two hours and a half, and then strain. Boil the macaroni, with a little salt, in a separate saucepan for half an hour. Then cut it up i into small pieces, and, when the} soup is ready for use, put the | macaroni into a tureen, and pour the soup over it. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Ingredients.—2 young vegetable marrows ; 1 quart of white stock ; \ pint of cream ; white pepper, and salt. Method.—Pare the marrows, slice them, and put them in the stock, which should have been brought to the boil. When done almost to pulp, press the marrow ‘slices through a sieve, and, before serving, add the cream (which should also be boiling) and the seasoning. Milk Soup. x Ingredients.—2 large onions ; 1 turnip ; 1 small stick of celery ; 1 pint of stock; 1 pint of milk, and 1 dessertspoonful of French po- tato-flour. Method. — Mince together the onions, the turnip, and the white part of the celery. Boil them in the stock (or in the liquor in which fresh meat has been boiled, or in water, if necessary), and, when they are ready, rub them through a sieve. Then add to them, and to the liquor in which they have been boiled, the pint of milk. Let the whole boil; season and thicken with the potato-flour (or 2 dessert- spoonfuls of rice-flour rubbed smooth in a little water); and serve with fried bread. Mock-Turtle Soup. Ingredients.—1 calf’s head; 3 quarts of stock ; 1 onion; 2 car- rots ; 1 shank of ham ; 1 head of celery ; 1 or 2 cloves; 3 or 4 pep- percorns , a bunch of sweet herbs; and a little lemon-peel. Method.—Scald the calf’s head (with the skin on) ; take out the I bones ; and cut into 2-inch pieces. J Wash the pieces thoroughly, place ' them in a stewpan, and boil them f& an hour. Put the stock into another stewpan ; and add the re- mainder of the ingredients. Stew 2—220 SOUPS. ti 1 the broth is reduced to 2 quarts, and then strain it into the stewpan containing the head. Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients.—1 knuckle of veal; Bib. of breast of veal; 3 quarts of water; f oz. white and Jamaica pep- percorns ; a few slices of bacon; 6 onions (sliced); 2 tablespoonfuls of curry-powder; two table-spoon- fuls of flour (lightly browned); salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon- juice. Method.—Line a stewpan with the bacon, and then put into the pan the knuckle of veal (broken and washed), the peppercorns and the water, having previously placed tinned skewers at the bottom of the pan to prevent the meat from sticking. Let the stock come to the boil, then skim it carefully, and let it simmer for an hour and a half before straining it off. Cut the breast of veal into 1-inch pieces, and fry them with the onions to a delicate brown. Add them to the strained stock; skim thoroughly, and when the whole has simmered for three-quarters of an hour, add to it the curry-powder and the flour, previously rubbed to a smooth batter. Use the salt and pepper and cayenne and lemon- juice according to liking, and sim- mer till the whole is tender. Serve with boiled rice. Instead of veal, chickens or rabbits (cut into pieces) or small mutton cutlets, browned, can be used for this soup. Onion Soup (1). Ingredients.—2 Spanish onions ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of water ; a small piece of fresh butter ; 1 pint of stock; salt and pepper to taste. Method. — Boil the onions in water until nearly tender, strain, and finish cooking them in the milk and water ; pass through a sieve, add the stock, butter, salt, and pepper, boil a few minutes, and serve with dice of toasted bread. Onion Soup (2). Ingredients.—3 onions; 1 dessert- spoonful of oatmeal; 1 oz. of but- ter ; 1 pint of water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Slice the onions, and boil them in the water until tender ; add the oatmeal, seasoning to taste, and a small piece of butter. Oxtail Soup. Ingredients.—2 oxtails; If oz. of butter ; If heads of celery ; 2 onions; 2 turnips; 2 carrots; fib. lean ham; bunch of herbs; 5 cloves ; 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns; 1 bay-leaf; 1 wine-glassful of ketchup ; 1 wine-glassful of port; 3 quarts of water. Method.—Cut up the oxtails, separating them at the joints; and put them into the stewpan with the butter, the head of celery, the onions, the turnips, the carrots (cut into slices), the ham (cut very thin), the peppercorns, the herbs, and about f pint of cold water. Stir the whole for a short time over a quick fire till the pan is covered with a glaze ; then pour in 3 quarts of water, skim well, and simmer slowly till the tails are done (say, for four hours). Take out the tails, strain the soup; stir in a little flour, add the port, the ketchup, and the remaining celery (previously boiled and cut into small pieces). Put the tailsSOUPS. 21 into the pan with the strained soup, boil for a few minutes, and serve. Oyster Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of oysters; 2 quarts of stock (fish or meat); 9 eggs; some mace and cayenne. Method.—Take away from the oysters, which ought to be fresh and juicy, the hard part and beards, and add to these the yolks of six eggs, previously hard boiled. Pound together in a mortar, and add to the stock. Let the whole simmer for half an hour, and then strain into another stewpan, in which the oysters, well washed, have been placed. Season with the mace and cayenne, and let the oysters simmer for eight minutes ; after which, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, may be stirred into the soup, and gradually mixed with the whole—the stewpan being drawn aside, and the soup con- stantly stirred, to prevent the eggs curdling. When the soup is smooth and thick, serve in a tureen, still stirring. Lemon, mustard and vinegar, tarragon or garlic may be used as flavouring, according to taste. Green Pea Soup. Ingredients.—1 peck of fresh green peas ; a knuckle of veal ; a small piece of ham; 2 carrots; 1 turnip; 1 head of celery; heart of lettuce; 1 sprig of mint; Hump of sugar, the size of a walnut ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Boil the peas until tender, then put the water in which they have been boiled into a clean saucepan, add the veal and ham, and the carrots and turnip cut into thin slices, and let the whole simmer gently for two hours; strain and season it; pulp the peas (all except a pint, which must be added to the soup just before dish- ing) through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp into the soup. Cut some slices of bread into dice, and fry them in fresh butter; after which, fry the lettuce, cut in thin slices, place the bread and lettuce in the tureen, and pour the soup (having first added the pint of peas), very hot, over them. Green Pea Soup (without Meat). Ingredients.—3 quarts of water; 1 quart of full-grown peas, f pint of young peas ; 4 oz. of butter; 4 small cucumbers ; 4 lettuces ; from 1 to 4 onions; some sprigs of parsley; a few sprigs of mint ; some salt, some white pepper oi cayenne. Method. — Boil the full-grown peas (which, like the others, must be freshly gathered, if the soup is to be acceptable) in the 3 quarts of water, until they are tender. Drain and pound them in a mortar, and mix with them, gradually, 5 pints of the liquor in which they have been boiled. Put them on the fire again ; stir gently for a quarter of an hour ; and then pass through a hair-sieve or crush in a mortar. Meanwhile, the cucum- bers pared and sliced, the lettuces sliced small, the onions cut thin, the parsley and the mint chopped, should have been placed with the butter in another saucepan, and llowed to simmer over a gentle ^ e for nearly an hour, stirred the while, with a sprinkling-in of salt and pepper. The butter should then be drained from them, and they should be added to the strained stock, the whole being kept boiling22 sours. gently until the butter has all been brought to the surface and re- moved. Then add the young peas, boiled for eating, and serve immediately. Winter Pea Soup. Ingredients.—1 pint of split peas; 3 quarts of water; 1\ lb. of beef; 1 slice of bacon ; 1 handful of spinach ; half bunch of mint ; a few cloves; a little mace; a lump of sugar; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the peas in the water till quite soft. Add the beef, the bacon, a portion of the spinach, the cloves, and the mace. Stew for two hours ; rub through a sieve; then add the mint, a little spinach (cut into shreds), the sugar, and pepper and salt to taste; and stew again for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with fried or toasted bread, cut into dice, and placed on a separate dish. Potato Soup. Ingredients.—1 lb. of potatoes ; 1 onion; 1 stick of celery; 1^ pint of white stock; % pint of cream or milk; pepper and salt. Method.—Having peeled the po- tatoes, cut them, together with the onion and celery, into thin pieces ; add them to the stock, and let the whole simmer gently till done. Rub the soup through a tammy- cloth or hair-sieve, season, add the cream, make hot, and serve with crusts of bread, fried. Brown Rabbit Soup. Ingredients.—2 full-grown or 3 small rabbits; 3 onions; 7 pints of water; 1 large teaspoonful of salt; some parsley ; 4 carrots ; 1 small teaspoonful of peppercorns. Method.—Take the rabbits, and cut them down into joints, flour them, and fry lightly. Fry the onions to a clear brown, and add them to the rabbits. Pour the water gradually upon the whole; add the salt; clear off scum when necessary; and add to the soup the parsley, the carrots, and the pep- percorns. Boil softly for five or five and a half hours, adding more salt if required. Strain off the soup; let it cool sufficiently for the fat to be skimmed from it; heat it afresh, and send it to the table with sippets of fried bread. The soup can be rendered more tasty by the addition of spice, with a thickening of rice-flour, and a spoonful or two of ketchup or sauce. White Rice Soup. Ingredients.— 4 oz. of rice ; 2 quarts of stock; f pint of cream; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Method.—Wash the rice well; place it in boiling water; and after it has boiled five minutes, pour it into a sieve, drain it, and add it to the stock, which should be boiling. Let the whole stew till done; then season to taste, add the cream, boil, and serve quickly. Scotch Broth. Ingredients.—1 gallon of water; 1 breakfast-cupful of Scotch bar- ley; 2 or 3 lb. of good gravy meat; 4 or 5 carrots; 4 or 5 turnips ; 3 onions; 1 cabbage; 2 or 3 heads of celery, etc.; seasoning. Method.—Pour the water into a stewpot, and put into it the meat and barley ; let them boil for an hour; then add the vegetables all chopped, with seasoning to taste, and boil the whole slowly for two hours. Parsley, leeks, and other vegetables may be added, according to what is in season.SOUPS. 23 Sheep’s Head Broth. Ingredients.—1 sheep’s head and trotters (prepared); 1 neek of mutton (optional); 1 breakfast- cupful of barley ; 2 quarts of cold water ; a few turnips and carrots ; a little parsley; 2 onions. Method.—Put the sheep’s head and trotters, the neck of mutton, the barley, and the water, into a pot; let them boil, and then skim thoroughly. Add the turnips and carrots (cut small), the parsley and the onions ; and let the whole boil again slowly, till the head is quite tender. Then let the pot stand near the fire (covered closely) for a quarter of an hour before serving. The head and trotters should be brought to table with whole carrots and turnips. Sheep’s head, it may be noted, is excellent when cold. (It is prepared for broth in the following manner: Have the head and trotters well singed to begin with. Split the head down the middle ; take out the brains, and rub the head all over with them; then lay the head and trotters to soak in water all night; and scrape and wash them well before using.) Tomato Soup. Ingredients. — £ a turnip ; 2 carrots; 6 onions; £ lb. tin of tomatoes; pepper and salt to taste ; stock. Method. — Boil the above in- gredients in stock, and when soft press through a colander as much of the substance as possible. Re- turn the liquid to the pot, let it boil up, and serve. Turnip Soup. Ingredients,—3 lb, of turnips ; 4 oz. of butter; 2 quarts of stock (boiling) ; salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and wipe the turnips, and cut them into quar- ter-inch pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and, before it begins to boil, put in the turnips. Stew the whole gently for three-quarters of an hour without browning it ; add the boiling stock, and simmer for another three-quarters of an hour. Put through a sieve or strainer ; place the soup again on the fire ; stir it, whilst boiling, for three minutes ; take off the scum ; season to taste ; and serve very hot. Vegetable Stock, for Clear Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of cold water ; 1 large turnip ; 3 carrots ; 1 large head of celery ; f lb. of onions ; some mushrooms (if pos- sible) ; some herbs ; 1 doz. pepper- corns ; 4 cloves ; and a crust of bread. Method.—Cut up the turnip and onions, and tie up the herbs with white cotton into a little bouquet. Then place all the ingredients in a saucepan or stock-pot; put the saucepan or pot in the oven, and boil slowly, skimming frequently, for an hour. Then add a salt- spoonful of salt, and skim again. Simmer slowly (for about three hours) till the stock is reduced to a pint and a half, and then strain through a sieve. What is left in the sieve can now be thrown away, for all the goodness will be in the remainder. Clear Vegetable Soup. Ingredients.—^ lb. carrots ; £ lb. turnips ; \ lb. onions ; £ lb. leeks ; 2 oz. of butter ; 3 pints of stock ; a cupful of barley.SOUPS. 24 Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, and add to it the vegetables, cut into dice. Stir rapidly, to prevent browning. Three minutes after, add the stock and the barley ; simmer, skimming frequently, till the vegetables are quite soft; and then serve. Vegetable Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; 1 quart of water ; £ pint of green peas ; 3 or four young carrots ; 3 or 4 turnips; the heart of a lettuce ; a few heads of asparagus, and any other young spring vege- jables ; a small piece of butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Boil the vegetables till tender in the water, then add the milk, seasoning, and butter, jnd let the whole boil for a few minutes. Cut thin slices of bread, pat them into a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Vermicelli Soup. (For Small Family.) Ingredients.—1| pint of stock ; 1 carrot (if liked) ; 1 onion (sliced very finely) ; 1 oz. of vermicelli; a little mushroom ketchup ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the carrot into small pieces, and put it into the stock along with the thinly sliced onion. Boil one hour, then add the vermicelli (broken in pieces), ketchup, and seasoning. Simmer slowly for another hour, then serve. Celery may be substituted for the carrot, if preferred. The stock for this soup may be made as follows : Put the bones and scraps of a cooked chicken or fowl into a pot, with sufficient water to cover them. Boil for seven or eight hours, being careful the water does not reduce too much ; if it does, more must be added. Strain through a sieve, and when cold skim off the fat.Sauces. Ofrtain things are absolutely essential to the making of good sauces. To be gin with, the fire should be a bright one, but not ‘ fierce.’ Secondly, the saucepan used should be scrupulously and immaculately clean. Thirdly, the greatest care should be taken in measuring out the quantities of the ingredients. Fourthly, equal care should be shown in the stirring and mixing of the materials, which is best done, by the way, by means of a wooden spoon. Fifthly, sauces should be cooked thoroughly : it is not sufficient merely to make them thick ; they should be boiled for a minute or two at least. If these directions are not attended to, the sauce will be lumpy and altogether unacceptable ; and unless this sort of thing is perfectly well done, it is better to leave it alone, as nothing is more repelling than an unappetizing sauce. Appetizing Sauce. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of mustard ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce ; 1 teaspoonful of shalot, elder, and chili vinegars ; 1 tablespoonful of claret or port wine. Method.—Put the whole in a silver dish over a lamp. Put in your slices of meat of any kind, or hot or cold game ; let it cook till very hot. This is excellent, and will revive and stimulate the most jaded appetite. French mustard may be added, or other vinegars, or the proportion of each varied to taste. Apple Sauce. Ingredients.—6 or 8 apples ; a little butter ; brown sugar to taste. Method.—Pare, core, and slice the apples and put them into a saucepan with two or three spoon- fuls of water ; boil them till tender, then beat them to a pulp, previously adding a little butter and sugar. Bread Sauce. Ingredients.—The crumb of a French roll ; 1 onion ; £ pint of cream ; 1 oz. of butter ; 12 pepper- corns ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the crumb of the French roll and the onion, whole, in the cream, then add the butter and peppercorns. When done, take out the onion, beat up the sauce, and season with salt and pepper. Another Bread Sauce. Ingredients.—| an onion ; £ pint of milk ; 6 oz. of stale bread ; a little pounded mace ; cayenne and salt to taste ; ^ oz. of butter. Method.—Peel and halve the onion, and let it simmer in the milk until perfectly tender. Grate the bread and strain the milk overSAUCES. 26 it; cover it close, and let it soak for an hour. Put it into a sauce- pan with the mace, cayenne, salt, and butter rolled in flour ; beat it well with a fork over the fire till it comes to the boil, then serve. The addition of a little cream is an improvement. Brown Sauce. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter ; 1 carrot; 1 turnip ; \ stick of celery ; f oz. of flour ; 3 gills of second stock ; 1 tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup ; salt; pepper ; 6 drops of caramel. Method.—Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; wash and pare the turnip and carrot, and slice them, with the celery, into thq, butter. Brown the vegetables well on both sides ; stir in the flour ; and then add by degrees the stock, stirring all the time. When the mixture boils, season with a little salt and epper, and flavour with the etchup. Boil again for two minutes, add the caramel, strain the sauce into a gravy-boat, and serve. Caper Sauce. Ingredients.—\ pint of melted butter ; 3 spoonfuls of capers, and a little of the vinegar ; salt. Method. — Chop half of the capers and keep the rest whole, stir them into the melted butter, with a little of the vinegar, and keep stirring the whole till it boils; add the salt, then serve. Pickled nasturtiums may be substituted for the capers ; they make a very good sauce. Celery Sauce. Ingredients.—4 heads of celery ; | pint of milk ; 2 teaspoonfuls of flour ; 2 oz. of butter ; salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste. Method.—Put the milk, flour and butter into a lined saucepan, and stir them quickly one way till they boil. Add the celery previously boiled in salt and water until tender, and cut into pieces 2 inches long. Season to taste, and simmer the whole for two or three minutes, when it will be ready to serve. A Chutnee Sauce. Ingredients.—5 or 6 roasted ap- ples ; some turmeric and beetroot juice ; 1 tablespoonful of chili vinegar ; 1 clove of garlic ; 1 sha- lot; a little cayenne and salt. Method.—Pulp the apples, and colour them with turmeric and beetroot juice till they are the colour of a tomato, add the other ingredients, and simmer gently for some time. It ought to be the con- sistency of cream. When cool, put it into half-pint bottles, and cork tightly. Custard Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of milk; 1 egg ; 1^ oz. of powdered sugar ; 1 dessert-spoonful of brandy. Method.—Put the milk in a sauce- pan with the sugar ; when it comes to the boil let it stand a minute to cool, then pour it over the well- beaten egg. Put the mixture into a jug, which place in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it till it thick- ens, being careful not to let it boil; add the brandy, and serve. The brandy can be omitted. Egg Sauce (1). Ingredients.—2 eggs (boiled for twenty minutes, then put into cold water to cool) ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter ; k pint of milk ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter together on a plate, put them27 SA UCES. into a saucepan (over a gentle fire) along with the milk and seasoning, and keep stirring the whole one way till it boils; then add the whites and yolks of the eggs, chopped separately, and serve very hot. A little lemon-juice can be added, if liked. Egg Sauce (2). Ingredients.—The yolks of 2 eggs, beaten ; 2 slices of lemon ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar ; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Put all the above in- gredients into a saucepan, which place on a rather slow fire. Stir the whole till it is very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve with any kind of fish. Fennel Sauce. Ingredients.—A small handful of fennel ; £ pint of melted butter ; a little salt. Method.—Strip the fennel from the stems, wash it very clean, and boil it quickly in salt and water until tender, which should be in about ten minutes ; press the water well out of it, mince it fine, and mix it gradually with the hot melted butter. German Pudding Sauce. Ingredients.—£ pint of white wine ; a little lemon-peel and sugar ; the yolks of 7 eggs. Method.—Just bring to a boil the \ pint of white wine, with a little lemon-peel and sugar in it; beat up well the yolks of the eggs, and pour the hot wine over them ; whisk it to a froth, and serve with almost any boiled pudding. Glaze. Ingredients.—Some strong gravy or any kind of rich stock. Method.— Boil down, over a quick fire, some strong gravy or stock until it is the thickness of cream, and coats the spoon. The greatest care must be taken that it does not burn. When ready, pour it into a jar. When wanted for use, it can be dissolved by placing the jar in boiling water. This is a good glaze for ham, tongues, etc.; and it can also be used for enrich- ing soups and gravies. Gravy for Hashes, Stews, etc. Ingredients.—Some gravy beef, or bones and scraps of any cooked meat ; water ; 1 small onion ; a piece of carrot, turnip, and celery ; a little thyme and marjoram, or other sweet herbs ; a little ketchup, port or sherry wine ; pepper and salt. Method.—If made with gravy beef, cut the beef into small pieces and put them into a stewpan along with the vegetables, and about 2 pints of water. Simmer gently for three or four hours, then strain. Thicken with flour, if necessary ; season with pepper and salt, and add a little ketchup, or port or sherry wine, according to taste. If made with bones and cuttings from cooked meat, put the bones, etc., with the carrot, turnip, celery, and herbs, into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them. Stew gently for about two hours, then add the onion, previously sliced and fried in butter, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain ; stir in a little ketchup and a piece of butter rolled in flour; boil one minute, and it will be ready for use. Horseradish Sauce. Ingredients.—1 stalk of horse- radish ; to each tablespoonful of horseradish allow 1 teaspoonful of23 SAUCES. mustard, 1 teaspoonful of white sugar, and a little salt ; vinegar. Method.—Grate the horseradish very fine,and add to it the mustard, sugar, and salt in the above pro- portions ; then add the vinegar, a teaspoonful at a time, working it well till it comes to a proper con- sistency. The yolk of a hard- boiled egg, worked in, is considered an improvement by some cooks. For roast beef. Lemon Sauce for Puddings. Ingredients.—The rind and juice of ^ a lemon ; ^ wine-glassful of sherry ; j wine-glassful of water ; ^ oz. of butter; ^ tablespoonful of flour; 2 eggs; sugar to taste. Method.— Rub the half-lenlonon to some lumps of sugar, press the juice from it, and strain through a piece of clean muslin. Stir the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire till they become slightly brown; then add the lemon-juice, wine, water, and sugar (crushed) on which the lemon has been rubbed. When the sugar is tho- roughly melted, pour in the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; stir the sauce till it thickens—if allowed to boil, it will curdle; and serve. Lobster Sauce. Ingredients.—1 hen-lobster; 1 oz. of butter; some melted butter; essence of anchovies ; cayenne ; mace; salt; and some rich cream. Method.—Take care, in the first place, that the lobster is thoroughly fresh. Then split the tail, and, taking out the inside coral, pound half of it in a mortar with rather less than the ounce of butter, after- wards rubbing it through a hair- sieve. This done, take the flesh of the fish, and cut it into half-inches. Next make some good melted but- ter, sufficient for the quantity of sauce desired; season with the anchovy, cayenne, mace, and salt; and add a few spoonfuls of cream. Mix a small portion of the sauce with the pounded coral; and when the latter is in a liquid state, add it to the remainder of the sauce, mixing the two well to- gether. Finally, add the cut-up flesh, and let the whole heat tho- roughly by the side of the fire, taking care that it does not come to the boil. Then serve. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter, made with milk ; salt, pep- per, or cayenne; 2 teaspoonfuls of finely minced parsley; the juice of ^ a lemon. Method. — Prepare the melted butter over a clear fire ; when on the point of boiling, add the sea- soning, parsley, and lemon-juice; let it boil up, then serve. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 gill of salad-oil; 2 tablespoonfuls of tar- ragon vinegar; pepper and salt. Method.—Break the eggs, and separate the yolks entirely and completely from the whites. Place the yolks in a basin, which in hot weather should be placed on ice, so that its contents may be kept perfectly cold—an important mat- ter. Whisk the yolks well mean- while, adding the oil drop by drop, very slowly, until the mixture be- comes so thick that you whisk with difficulty. Then add the oil more quickly, though not too much so. Finally, add the vinegar, pepper, and salt. Two yolks, we may add, are sufficient for any quantity of sauce, the vinegar being added in proportion to the amount of oil used.29 SAUCES. Melted Butter. Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of flour; \\ oz. of butter; ^ pint of water; a little salt. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter on a plate to a smooth paste, put it into a small saucepan with the water, and keep shaking or stirring it one way over the fire till it boils. Another way is to put the flour, with the salt, into a basin, and to mix with it very gradually and smoothly the £ pint of water ; pour this into a saucepan, and stir' it over the fire till it has boiled two minutes. Then add the butter cut into small pieces, and continue stirring the whole till the butter is quite dis- solved Boil it quick for a minute, then serve. This sauce can be made richer by adding more butter. Mint Sauce. Ingredients. — 4 spoonfuls of green mint; sugar to taste; 8 spoon- fuls of vinegar. Method.— Pick the mint, and wash it thoroughly, chop it very fine ; then add it to the vinegar previously mixed with the sugar in a tureen; stir, and let it stand for a little before serving. Onion Sauce. Ingredients.—4 or 5 onions ; pint of hot milk; 1 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel the onions and boil them until tender, which should be in about an hour and a half ; squeeze the water from them, chop them, and add to them the butter, melted rich and smooth with the milk. Season to taste. Boil it up once, and serve. For boiled rabbits, shoulder of mutton, etc. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients.—3 doz. good 1 na- tives ;’ 3 oz. of butter; 4 dessert- spoonfuls of flour; \ pint of new milk or cream; salt; cayenne. Method.—Begin by opening the oysters just before the sauce is wanted for table. Save the liquor and strain it, and then rinse the oysters in it one by one. Place them in a clean saucepan, strain the liquor once more, and pour it over them. Then heat them slowly, keeping them for one or two minutes at the simmering-point, but not permitting them to boil. They must then be taken out and bearded carefully. Mix together the butter and the flour; add them to the liquor; stir the whole until it begins to boil and is thoroughly amalgamated; then add gradually the milk or cream (or equal parts of each), continuing to stir until the sauce boils again, when a little salt and cayenne should be sprinkled in. Finally, put in the oysters, and keep the sauce by the side of the fire until it simmers, when it should be turned into a heated tureen and sent immediately to table. Parsley Sauce. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley; ^ pint of melted butter. Method.—Wash a good handful of parsley very clean, let it boil for a few minutes in salt and water till tender, then drain it well, mince it very fine, and stir it into the melted butter, well prepared. In winter, when parsley is scarce, the butter may be made with the water in which a little parsley-seed (tied up in a piece of muslin) has been boiled for ten minutes. As a substitute for the parsley-leaves*SAUCES. BO a little spinach may be chopped finely and put into the butter. Celery-seed can be used in the same way to flavour soups, etc. Sauce Piquante. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of mustard and 1 of sugar; a few drops of olive-oil; 1 tablespoonful of shalot or tarragon vinegar, or half a spoonful of each; 1 of ketchup; and 2 of Harvey Sauce. Method.—Work the mustard and sugar smoothly together with a few drops of olive-oil; then add, by degrees, the other ingredients. A Good Pudding Sauce. Ingredients.—\ pint of milk or cream; a little whole cinnamon; some lemon-peel; 1 bay-leaf; brown sugar to taste; the yolks of 3 eggs; a little ground-rice; 1 glass of madeira or sherry. Method.—Boil the milk or cream with the cinnamon, lemon-peel, bay-leaf, and sugar for a quarter of an hour. When cold, add to it the yolks of the three eggs. Put it on the fire again, but do not let it boil. Two minutes before you take it off, thicken it with a little ground rice, and add the glass of madeira or sherry. This is a good sauce for all puddings that require one. Salad Sauce. Ingredients.—The yolk of 1 hard- boiled egg ; 1 raw egg ; a little water; 1 teaspoonful of salt; \ teaspoonful of mixed cayenne and black pepper ; 1 teaspoonful of mustard ; 1 tablespoonful of vine- gar ; 1 tablespoonful of anchovy sauce ; 5 tablespoonfuls of oil or thick cream. Method. — Mix the hard-boiled egg and the raw one together in a little water, then add the other ingredients. The oil, Or cream, must be stirred in very gradually. Cream may generally be substi- tuted for oil in salad sauces. Sauce for Cold Meat or Fish. Ingredients.—A little parsley and shalot ; ^ clove of garlic ; 2 spoon- fuls of olive-oil ; yolks of five eggs ; a little salt and pepper ; 1 spoonful of mustard, 2 of tarragon vinegar, and'l of white wine. Method. — Shred the parsley, shalot and garlic very fine, and rub them down in the oil, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten. Add the other ingredients, and beat the whole till of a good con- sistence. It takes three-quarters of an hour to make it well. Shrimp Sauca. Ingredients.—h pint of picked shrimps ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour ; f pint of milk ; a few drops of lemon-juice, or 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; pepper and salt. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and, when quite smooth, pour in the milk ; keep stirring one way over the fire till it boils, then add the lemon-juice or anchovy sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and shrimps. Let the whole stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes till the fish are thoroughly heated through. Sweet Sauca (1). Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot or flour; 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of powdered sugar ; the juice of half a lemon ; £ pint of milk ; 1 wine-glassful of sherry or brandy. Method.—Boil the milk (water can be substituted if preferred) with the sugar. Then add to it the arrowroot, or flour, previously mixed smooth with a little cold31 SAUCES; milk. Stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens, then pour in the lemon-juice and wine. The latter can be omitted. This sauce is nice with plum, bread, or rice-pudding. Sweet Sauce (2). Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of cornflour ; 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar ; \ pint of milk. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar ; then add to it the cornflour, previously mixed smooth in a little cold milk. Stir one way over a clear fire until it boils ; boil 2 minutes, then serve. Tartare Sauce. Ingredients.—1 onion ; 2 shalots; a little parsley and tarragon ; a few capers ; the yolks of 2 eggs, boiled hard ; 1 spoonful of tarra- gon vinegar ; 1 spoonful of plain vinegar : 1 spoonful of olive-oil; 1 teaspoonful of ready-made mus- tard ; pepper and salt. Method.—Chop the onion, sha- lots, parsley, tarragon, and capers very fine. Rub down the yolks of the eggs, and dissolve them in a little drop of water. Mix all these thoroughly together, and add the spoonful of tarragon and plain vinegar ; beat well with a wooden spoon ; adding, very gradually, the spoonful of olive-oil and the mustard. Season to taste. This is a very good receipt, and is excel- lent with broiled fowl, or grouse, salmon, and cold meat of all kinds. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. — Tomatoes ; vine- gar ; garlic ; salt ; Jamaica pepper ; whole black pepper ; a few cayenne pods ; curry powder. Method.—Put the tomatoes in a brass pan, and stew till tender ; rub them through a sieve, and to every pound of juice add a pint of vinegar, £ oz. of garlic, j oz. of salt, £ oz. of Jamaica pepper, \ oz. of whole black pepper, and a few cayenne pods. Boil one hour, strain, and add curry powder to taste. Bottle when cold. This is a very good relish for fish, cold meat, etc., and with the addition of melted butter is used with mutton chops and cutlets. An Excellent Vinegar for Salads. Ingredients. — Tarragon, savory, chives, and shalots, each 3 oz. ; a handful of the tops of mint and balm; 1 gallon of the best vinegar. Method.—Dry and pound all the ingredients, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle with the vinegar, cork it close, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain it off, and squeeze the herbs. Let it stand to settle, then strain through a filter- ing-bag, and bottle it. Plain White Sauce. Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of flour ; 1| oz. butter ; ^ pint milk ; salt; a very little lemon-juice. Method.—Mix the flour and but- ter on a plate to a smooth paste, put it into a saucepan with the milk, and keep shaking or stirring it one way over a clear fire until it boils ; then add the lemon-juice and salt. Wine Sauce. Ingredients.—Some thin melted butter; brown sugar ; a little grated lemon-peel or a little nut- meg ; 1 or 2 glasses of sherry or madeira. Method.—Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it with the brown sugar, add the grated lemon-peel or nutmeg, and one or two glasses of sherry or madeira ; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil, and serve immediately.fftsb. It is scarcely necessary to dwell upon the desirability of fish as an edible. It is not quite so satisfying as animal food, because it is so easy of digestion, but it is quite as nutritious, and it is much more economical. Dr. Davy draws attention to the fact that populations subsisting on fish are specially strong, healthy, and prolific. ‘In no other class than in that of fishers do we see larger families, handsomer women, or more robust or active men.’ Care, however, must be taken to eat fish that is in season ; when out of season, it is very unwhole- some. It is best when it is cheapest—i.e., when it is in season, and the supply is largest. A fish is fresh when the eyes are bright, when the gills are red, and when the flesh is thick and firm. If, when you press your fingers on the flesh, the impression remains, the fish is stale and to be avoided. Staleness can be detected also by the smell emitted by the fish. Chloride of soda will impart a species of freshness, but it is not to be recom- mended. As a general rule, medium-sized fish are better than those that are large or small. Turbot is best when thick and full-fleshed, the under side being of a pale cream or yellow colour. Salmon and codfish should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh of codfish should be white and clear before it is boiled, and whiter and clearer afterwards. Herrings, mackerel, and whitings must be cooked newly caught, or they are not agreeable eating. Eels should be alive when purchased ; they can be killed by piercing the spinal marrow, close to the back of the skull, with a sharp-pointed knife or skewer. Lobsters, prawns, and shrimps should be very stiff after boiling. Oysters are fresh according to the tenacity with which the shells hold together ; if the shells are far open, the fish should be rejected. It is essential that fish should be cleaned very carefully and thoroughly. All offensive matter in it should be entirely removed. It should be handled lightly; and, though it should be well washed, it should not be left longer in the water than necessary, or it will lose its flavour. Fish can be kept best by emptying and cleaning it as soon as bought, wiping it quite dry, and hanging it up by the head on hooks in the ceiling of a cool larder. If there is any danger of flies, hang it up in a wire safe, where there is a strong draught. In boiling, take care thatFISH. S3 the kettle used is scrupulously clean. A little salt and vinegar placed in the water tends to make the fish firmer, and therefore more appetizing. Fish should always be boiled gently. In frying, use a deeper stewpan than has hitherto been customary ; by so doing you are enabled to cover the fish with fat, which is a very important matter. If the fish cannot be sent to table at once, place it on a fish-plate, put the plate into a large and very hot dish, and set it across the fish-kettle, dip a clean cloth in the boiling water, and spread it over the fish, and cover the whole with a tin cover. When the fish is wanted, put it into the kettle again for an instant, and then drain and serve immediately. Stewed Brill. Ingredients.—A little white wine; 1 onion; 1 bay-leaf; thyme; parsley; lb oz. of fresh butter ; juice of 1 lemon ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Clean the brill well, lay it in a buttered enamel stew- pan, moisten it with wine, then add the onion sliced thinly, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and season- ing. Let the fish simmer gently over a slow fire until tender, then drain it and place it on a hot dish ; strain the liquor, stir into it the yolks of the 2 eggs, the butter, and the lemon-juice; heat tho- roughly, but do not allow it to boil; pour over the fish, and serve. Fried Cod. Ingredients.—Middle or tail of a codfish; salt; white pepper (or cay- enne) ; flour ; some crisped parsley. Method.—Cut the fish into slices of an inch thick ; season with salt and pepper, flour them well, and fry equally brown on both sides. They should take from eight to ten minutes. Drain them on a sieve before the fire, and serve on a heated napkin, with border of parsley. Another way is to dip the slices first into beaten eggs and afterwards into fine crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, before frying them. Send to table with melted butter and anchovy sauce. Or dip them, after frying, in a good curried gravy, and keep them by the fire a few minutes before serving. Salt Cod Pudding. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of salt cod ; 1 cupful of drawn butter; pepper; 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; bread-crumbs. Method.—Mince the cod finely, taking care that all the bones and skin have been removed. Heat the cupful of drawn butter, stir the fish into it, and add the grated cheese, and pepper to taste. Pour this into a well-buttered pudding-dish, cover with fine bread-crumbs, and set in the oven until delicately browned. Any firm white fish, such as cooked halibut, haddock, etc., is very good prepared in this way. Cod-Sounds (Boiled). Ingredients. — 6 cod-sounds; for sauce, gravy, pepper, salt, flour, 1 oz. butter, mustard. Method.—Clean the sounds tho- roughly in boiling water, and rub them over with salt. Put them to boil for about half an hour in equal quantities of milk and water. Serve with a gravy made of above ingredients, as follows : Put into a basin 1 tablespoonful of flour, and mix it smoothly with a little34 FISH. water. If liked, add to the flour, before mixing, a little mustard, and season to taste. Four on to the moistened flour a little gravy, mix well, and go on gradually adding the gravy until you have a sufficient quantity, or fill up with water. Put this sauce over the fire to warm, theD add the butter, and bring to the boiling-point. Stir till the sauce thickens, turn it out over the sounds, or serve in tureen. To Dress Crabs. Take a fresh, medium-sized crab, take the flesh out of the large shell, and mix with it a little oil and vinegar, with salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Then return the flesh to the shell, and serve it with the claws placed round it. Stewed Eels. Cut one large or two small eels into small pieces, dry them, and flour them. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a frying-pan, and then brown the eels in it. Afterwards put them into the stew pan, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion (cut into four), pepper, salt, and spice (if desired). Let the fish be nearly covered by stock or water, and stew gently for 40 minutes. Thicken the sauce with flour, and then serve the eels with the sauce round them. Tomato is a good flavouring for this dish. How to Fillet. Any fishmonger, of course, will undertake to fillet your fish for you; but, in general, he does it rather wastefully, and it is best to do the work yourself. The pro- eess—which can be applied to any flat fish, i.e. soles or plaice, etc.—is simple enough. A celebrated French cook has recommended as follows : ‘ Take up the fillets by running your knife first between the bones and the flesh, then between the skin and the fillet; by leaning pretty hard on the table, they will come off very neatly.’ But a much better way is this : Skin the fish with a sharp knife ; then make an incision down the spine-bone from head to tail; next insert the knife between the bones and the flesh, pressing hard against the former, and gradually raise up the flesh. The fillets thus formed can be treated in several modes : (1) they may be divided, trimmed into shape, egged, covered with bread-crumbs, fried in the usual way, and served with sauce ; or (2) each fillet may be rolled up —in one or two parts, according to size—and fastened round with thin twine or cotton, afterwards being egged, crumbed, and fried in plenty of boiling lard; (3) fillets may be cut into small strips or squares, lightly sprinkled with pepper or cayenne, salted and floured, fried in butter over a brisk fire, then well drained, and sauced with a good bechamel, and flavoured with a teaspoonful of minced parsley; sometimes, (4) when the fish are not very large, they are boned, but not cut along the middle ; they are then rolled from tail to head, having first been covered with pounded shrimps, mixed with butter, bread- crumbs, mace, and cayenne (or with pounded lobster, mixed with coral, and similarly seasoned); after- wards they are laid in a dish (with ingredients as in the recipe ‘To Bake Soles’), well covered with bread-crumbs and clarified butter, and baked from twelve to sixteen minutes, i.e. till the crumbs are coloured brown.FISH, 35 Balled Fish. Ingredients.— 1^ lb. of fish (if possible, 3 small ones) ; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour ; 1 teaspoonful of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 teacupful of milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape and wash the fish, cutting off the fins and taking out the eyes ; dry them, and place them in a pie-dish. Mix together the flour, butter (melted), egg (well beaten), and milk; add a little pepper and salt, and pour the whole over the fish. Place the dish in the oven and bake for half an hour, or toast before the fire for the same length of time. Fish Cakes. (See ‘ Fish Pudding.’) Dressed Fish. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked fish ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour ; ^ pint of milk ; a little grated nut- meg ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Put the butter in a saucepan and melt it slightly, add the flour, then stir in, very gradu- ally, the milk ; keep stirring the sauce till it boils, then add the grated nutmeg and seasoning to taste. Have ready the fish, freed from all skin and bone and cut into small pieces ; place it on a flat dish, pour the sauce over it, and brown quickly in a hot oven. Fish Pie. Ingredients.—Any cold fish; pep- per and salt ; 1 egg ; a little milk; some bread-crumbs ; a few lumps of butter. Method.—Put the fish (the bones aud skin having been carefully re- moved with two forks) into a pie- dish ; season with pepper and salt, and add the egg beaten up in a little milk; cover with bread- crumbs, and lay a few lumps of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Fish Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold boiled fish ; 1 lb. potatoes ; 1 oz. butter ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt. Method.—Take the fish, and, after removing the bones, add the pola- toes (washed), mixing both well together with ‘ a fork. Then melt the butter, and pour over, adding salt and pepper. Beat up the egg, and add it last. Place in a pudding- dish ; smooth and mark neatly on the top ; and bake for half an hour. (The above mixture, minus the butter, makes into excellent cakes for breakfast. Flour it well, divide it into portions, and, having put a tablespoonful of dripping into a frying-pan, fry the cakes a light brown.) Fish Rock. (German.) Ingredients.—Remains of any cold fish ; 1 onion ; a few finely mashed potatoes ; a little butter ; some fried bread-crumbs ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mince the onion very finely and put it in a stewpan with a little butter ; when it is quite soft, add the fish (picked carefully from the bones), the mashed pota- toes, seasoning, and a small piece of butter. Stir the whole together over the fire until very hot, then pile it high on a dish, sp .inkle with fried bread-crumbs, and serve. Fish Scallop. Ingredients.—Any cold fish ; a little milk ; 1 egg; 1 blade of pounded mace, if liked ; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour; 1 small spoon- ful of anchovy sauce ; pepper and 3—236 FISH. salt; some finely grated bread- crumbs ; butter. Method.—Take the fish carefully from the bones, and mix with it a little milk and the egg ; add the mace, flour, sauce, and seasoning, and put the whole into well-but- tered scallop-shells or into a deep dish ; cover with bread-crumbs ; place pieces of butter on the top, and brown in the oven or before the fire. Serve very hot. To Boil Haddock. First clean the fish, and remove the eyes. Then place the haddock on a dish, and pour a little vinegar over it, leaving it in the dish for an hour or so, and turning it occa- sionally. In order to procure stock for the haddock, take 2 onions, a turnip, a carrot (all minced or cut small), a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen white pepper- corns, and a shred of mace, and boil them in 2 quarts of water for an hour. Then strain the stock; put it into a fish-kettle with a little salt and twice as much French vinegar ; let it boil, and then put in the haddock. Draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and let the fish, if large, simmer very gently for half an hour. It has been shown that if you boil haddock, the skin cracks and the flesh gets tough. When ready, put the fish on a hot dish, pour some sauce over it, and serve at once, with some more of the same sauce in a tureen. Stewed Haddock. Ingredients.—1 nice fresh had- dock ; 2 eggs ; and a little milk, flour, salt, ketchup, and pepper. Method.—Clean and scrape the fish well, then cut in pieces of about two inches long ; put these in a stewpan with sufficient milk to half cover them, add a little salt, and stew for ten or fifteen minutes ; thicken with flour, adding ketchup and pepper to taste. Serve with the eggs, boiled hard, and cut in slices. An egg beaten up and added to the sauce will be found an im- provement. Stuffed Haddock. Ingredients.—1 haddock; 3 table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of chopped parsley ; 1 teaspoonful of thyme or dried herbs ; pepper and salt ; part of an egg to bind the stuffing; a little milk. Method.—Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of the bread-crumbs, the pars- ley, herbs, and seasoning, with the egg. Have the haddock well cleaned and dried, and the tail and fins cut off ; put the stuffing into it, and fasten it with a small skewer, or sew the sides together with needle and thread. Truss it with string on a long skewer, in the form of a letter S ; place it on a greased baking-tin, moisten it with milk, sprinkle over it the remaining bread-crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven for about half an hour or three-quarters, according to the size of the fish. Baste it occasionally with a little butter or good beef dripping. Findon Haddocks. Place the haddock on a tin toaster before the fire; when slightly heated, lay it on a clean table with the skin side up, and, beginning at the head, carefully pull the skin off without tearing the flesh. Next put it in a deep dish, pour boiling water over it, and allow it to re- main in this for about two minutes, then take it out, being careful not to break it, and let it brown for a37 FISH. few minutes on the toaster before the fire ; rub a little fresh butter over it, place two or three nicely poached eggs on the top, and serve on a hot dish. Stewed Findon Haddock. Ingredients.—1 Findon haddock (about \ lb.); 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and water ; 1 teaspoonful of butter. Method.—First skin the haddock, which can be done by placing it on the table with the skin-side upper- most, and then pulling the skin off from the top downwards. This can be done without tearing the flesh. Then flour well, and cut the fish into three or four pieces. Put the milk and water and butter into a pan, along with the fish ; let the whole come to the boil, and then simmer gently for five minutes. Place the fish on a hot plate, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Baked Halibut. Ingredients.—About 3 lb. of hali- but ; 1 cupful of boiling water, slightly salted ; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, strained, or 1 large tablespoonful of tomato ketchup ; pepper to taste ; a little lemon-juice or vine- gar ; 1 dessert-spoonful of browned flour. Method.—Soak the piece of hali- but in strong salt and water for one hour to extract the fishy flavour ; wash in fresh cold water, dry thoroughly, and, with a knife, make incisions about a quarter of an inch apart through the tough skin on the top ; place in a drip- ping-pan ; pour the cupful of salted boiling water over it, invert another pan above it, and cook one hour, basting three times with the salt water. Itcmove the upper pan, rub the ounce of butter well over the top of the fish, let it get a nice pale brown, baste once more with the hot water, then lift the halibut carefully on to a hot dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being prepared. Strain the water in the dripping-pan into a saucepan, add the strained tomato sauce or ketchup, pepper to taste, lemon-juice or vinegar,and browned flour ; stir well, let it boil a mo ment, then pour into a gravy- tureen, and serve. Halibut Fish Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked hali- but : 2 lb. mashed potatoes ; a small piece of butter ; a little salt; 1 egg ; a little milk, if necessary. Method.—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, mix it well with the potatoes, butter, and salt, then add the egg, and a very little milk, if necessary. Make into round flat cakes and fry a delicate brown in fresh dripping or lard ; drain on paper, and serve very hot. Any cooked fish, such as cod, haddock, plaice, etc., are nice done in this way. Baked Herrings. Ingredients.—Fresh herrings ; a few cloves ; pepper ; salt ; vine- gar ; a few bay-leaves. Method.—Scale, wash, and dry the herrings thoroughly ; lay them on a board, and rub well over and into them sime pounded cloves, pepper, and silt, previously mixed together. Lay them straight (or they can be boned and rolled) in a deep earthenware dish. Cover with vinegar and a few bay-leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more.38 FISH. They are good eaten either hot or cold, and will keep a long time if well covered. Mackerel and trout may be dressed in the same way. To Boil Herrings. Ingredients.—Salt; vinegar; some grated horseradish. Method.—Scale, clean, and wash the herrings ; dry them thoroughly in a cloth, and rub them well over with salt and vinegar. When the water boils, put them in ; about fifteen or twenty minutes will do ihem. Then take them up ; drain them well, and put them on a dish. Serve with grated horseradish, and parsley and butter sauce. Mac- kerel may be boiled in the same way, and served with fennel sauce. To Cook Kippered Herring. Ingredients.—2 kippered herrings; boiling water ; £ oz. of butter ; hot water ; a little pepper. Method.—Place the herrings in a basin, and pour over them, so as to cover them, some boiling water. Take them out at once, and lay them, skin downwards, in the fry- ing pan, into which you have already put the butter and hot water (about a tablespoonful). Let the fish fry for ten minutes, taking care that the fire is not strong enough to boil them, and basting them frequently with the gravy made of the butter and water. Transfer them to a hot dish, butter them slightly, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and serve very hot. They may also be cooked in the ordinary way, in a Dutch oven or toaster before the fire. Kedgeree. Ingredients .— Remains of any cooked fish ; the same quantity of rice ; 1 oz. of fresh butter; 2 eggs ; a little mustard, salt, and pepper. Method.—Carefully extract all bones from the fish ; boil the rice twenty minutes, and the eggs four minutes ; chop the latter up very fine, and mix all the ingredients together. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot ; then serve, piled up pyramid-fashion, on a very hot dish. To Boil Lobsters. Put them in fast boiling water (salted), so that life may at once become extinct ; 5 oz. of salt should go to 1 gallon of water. A moderate-sized lobster should be well boiled in fifteen or twenty- five minutes ; a larger one will re- quire from thirty to forty minutes. Before the lobster is sent to table, take off the large claws, and crack the shells across the joints ; sepa- rate the tail from the body, and split it quite through the middle. The whole should be dished up nicely on a napkin ; garnished, if liked, with curled parsley ; and served with a sauce, or with oil and vinegar. Curried Lobster. Ingredients.— 1 large fresh lob- ster ; £ oz. of butter ; 1 small onion ; 1 dessert-spoonful of curry- powder ; pepper and salt; \ pint of veal gravy ; 1 dessert-spoonful of milk or cream; a little lemon- juice. Method.—Take all the meat from the shell; cut it in medium-sized pieces ; melt the butter in a small saucepan ; and throw in the onion, previously soaked over-night in boiling water, dried in a towel, and chopped v^ry finely. When it is a nice pale brown, stir in the curry- powder and pepper and salt. Smooth out all lumps in the pow- der, and add by degrees the gravy, stirring all the time. When this39 FISH. boils, add the pieces of lobster, and cook the whole very slowly for about an hour. When ready to serve, draw the pan from the fire, and stir in the milk or cream and a little lemon-juice. Do not allow it to boil after this. Serve with boiled rice, in a separate dish. Tinned lobster may be used in- stead of fresh lobster. A little more than half of a pound tin will be required. To Boil Mackerel. (See ‘To Boil Herring.’) Broiled Mackerel. Ingredients.—1 mackerel ; 2 oz. of butter ; pepper and salt. Method. — Clean the mackerel well, then split it through the back bone with a sharp knife. Lay it on the broiler, previously slightly greased to prevent the fish from sticking to it, and cook it for about ten minutes over a quick clear fire. When done, place it on a hot dish; snread the butter, mixed with the pepper and salt, over it; and serve as quickly as possible. The dish may be garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Creamed Mackerel. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 salt mackerel; 1 cupful of boiling water ; 1 tea- spoonful (heaped up) of cornflour; 2 teaspoonfuls of butter ; 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar; a little pep- per ; a little minced parsley. Method.—Wash, and soak the mackerel all night in cold water. In the morning, to prepare it for breakfast, dry it thoroughly in a clean towel, being careful to leave no salt crystals in the creases of the fish ; place in a pan of boiling water, and let it cook steadily for half an hour. In the meantime make the sauce in the following manner : Put the cupful of boiling water into a saucepan; then into this the cornflour, butter, vinegar, and pepper ; keep stirring the whole over the fire until it is quite smooth and as thick as custard, when add the minced parsley if you have it. Pour this over the fish, previously drained, and laid on a hot dish. Cover, and let it stand five minutes in a warm place before serving. Oysters Stewed in their own Juice. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some large oysters; salt. Method.—Take the largest oys- ters you can get ; wash them through their own juice ; lay them close together in a frying-pan; sprinkle them with a little salt. Make them a fine brown on both sides. When they are all done, pour some of their liquor into the pan, mixing it with any that may be left from their cooking. Let it boil a minute or two. Pour it over the oysters, and serve very hot. To Fry Plaice or Flounders. First sprinkle the fish with salt, and let them lie for two or three hours. Then wash and clean them well; wipe them dry, flour them, and wipe them again with a clean cloth. Dip them in egg and very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of lard. Plaice, it is said, can be made less watery by being beaten gently with a rolling-pin before being cooked. Crimped Skate. Ingredients.—Fresh skate; salt. Method—Take the fish, which40 FISH. should be cut into fillets and tied with string, to preserve their shape; and put it into well-salted water, to boil quickly. After about 20 minutes, take out and drain the fillets, remove the strings, and place on a hot dish. Serve with shrimp, parsley, egg, or any sauce pre- ferred. Boiled Salmon. Scale, empty, and well wash the salmon ; taking care to leave no blood inside. Then put it in a fish-kettle, with a gallon of water and 4 oz. of salt. Let the fish boil gently till done (allowing 10 minutes to each pound) ; then place it on a fish-plate to drain. Transfer it to a folded napkin, and serve it with lobster or shrimp sauce, and dressed cucumber. Collared Salmon. Ingredients.—3 lb. of salmon. Seasoning of pounded mace, pep- per, salt, and cloves ; vinegar; water. Method.—Split the fish, scale and bone it; wash it clean and dry it. Season well with above ingre- dients ; roll it up, tie it round, and put it in a kettle. Put enough vinegar and water to cover it (1 pint of vinegar to 3 pints of water); season with pepper and salt, and simmer gently till done. The boil- ing liquor, with more vinegar add- ed, may be used to preserve the salmon. Serve with melted butter. The same dish may be baked with vinegar and butter. Crimped Salmon. Ingredients.—Salmon; water ; a little salt. Method. — Let the salmon be quite fresh, and clean it well; cut it into slices, two or three inches thick ; allow these to lie in cold salted water for an hour, and then plunge them into a fish-kettle of boiling (salted) water. Let them remain in the water for a minute or two, and then raise them out of it for the same length of time. Go through this latter process three or four times ; for by so doing the. curd is set, and the fish becomes crisper. Allow it to boil gently till thoroughly done, remov- ing the scum at intervals. Serve with shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter. To Dress Dried Salmon. (Yorkshire Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some dried salmon; some hard-boiled eggs; 1 pint of cream; 2 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoon- ful of flour; some mashed pota- toes. Method.—Pull the salmon into flakes, and chop the eggs (not too finely). Put both into the pint of cream, with the butter rubbed up with the spoonful of flour. Skim it, and stir till it boils. Make a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, and put the fish in the centre. Salmon Patties. Ingredients.—Four slices of bread cut about 2 in. thick ; f pint of milk; 1 teacupful of grated bread- crumbs ; 2 oz. butter ; 1 oz. flour; 2 eggs ; salt and pepper; 1 lb. cold salmon. Method.—Mix the flour with a little cold milk ; melt the butter in a pan, and stir in the flour and half-pint of milk. Take from the salmon all skin and bone, and shred it well with a fork. Put the salmon in the batter described above, and season to taste. Stand the saucepan besideFISH. 41 the fire, but do not let it quite boil. Cut from each slice of bread one large round, and within each circle cut a smaller one, going rather less than half-way through the bread; but do not yet take this smaller circle right out. Put a little milk on a plate, and dip the rounds in it on both sides. In the same way dip then into the bread-crumbs (seasoned), and then into the egg, which should be well beaten. Fry the bread-rounds in hot lard till a light brown ; then take them out, and cut from them with a knife the inner circle, leaving a hollow. Scrape this a little deeper, and fill in with the prepared sal- mon. Serve on a napkin while very hot. Salmon. Pie. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of salmon ; 5 lb. of bread-crumbs; some chop- ped parsley ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs ; 1 gill of cold water; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Take a pie-dish, and put at the bottom of it a layer of bread-crumbs, parsley, and season- ing, mixed well together. Cut the salmon into thin slices, and place a layer of it over the bread-crumbs and parsley. Proceed in this way until all the material is used. Then beat the two eggs well, add to them the water, and pour over the pie ; put the butter, in small lumps, on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Flounder, haddock, halibut, etc., may also be done in this way. Salmon Pudding. Ingredients. — 1 lb. of cold boiled salmon; 8 tablespoonfuls of browned bread-crumbs; 1 teaspoon- ful of anchovy paste; 1 gill of cream 4 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 grain of cayenne. Method.—Take a small mould and butter it well ; then sprinkle a thin layer of the brown bread- crumbs over the greased surface. Kemove all bone and skin from the salmon, chop it finely, and mix it thoroughly with the remainder of the bread-crumbs and with the anchovy paste ; add the seasoning, and moisten the whole with the cream and the eggs, well beaten. Press the mixture firmly and smoothly into the mould, and put a piece of buttered paper on the top. Place the mould in a sauce- pan half filled with boiling water, and boil for an hour. Tinned sal- mon may be used for this dish. Salmon Steaks. Ingredients. — Salmon - steaks (about % inch thick) ; some dis- solved butter ; pepper and salt. Method. — Dip the steaks in dissolved butter, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and wrap them up in greased paper so that the butter cannot escape. Place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and keep them there for a quarter of an hour or rather more, turning them frequently mean- while. Serve on a hot dish, con- taining a little dissolved butter. Salmon-steaks, as above prepared, can also be cooked in a stewpan, with a little butter ; but the cook- ing must be done slowly. A third way is to fry them, also very slowly, with a little butter, in a frying- pan. Salt Fish. (^. la Maitre d’H6tel.) Boil the fish according to the following recipe ; or, taking the42 FISH. remains of what has been sent i to table, flake it off the bones, stripping away every portion of skin ; then lay it into a very clean saucepan, and pour on it some Maitre d’Hotel sauce ; or, if pre- ferred, dissolve gently 2 or 3 oz. of butter with 4 or 5 spoon- fuls of water and £ teaspoon- ful of flour ; add some pepper or cayenne, a little salt, and a des- sert-spoonful or more of minced parsley. Heat the fish slowly through either of these sauces, stir- ring it till the above is well mixed. If the sauce last described is used, add the juice of half a lemon, or a little chili-vinegar, just before it is taken off the fire. Serve in a deep dish, with a border of mashed parsnips or potatoes. To Boil Salt Fish. Salt fish is usually supplied by the fishmonger in a state ready for cooking; but if it reaches you very salt and dry, soak it for a night in a large quantity of cold water ; then let it lie exposed to the air for some time, again put it in water, and continue the process till it is quite soft. Next, brush it clean, wash it well, and place it with plenty of cold water in the fish-kettle near the fire, where it should heat very slowly. Keep it at simmering-point, never allowing it to boil, for three-quarters of an hour or an hour, according to weight. The scum should be cleared off as it collects. Serve on a hot napkin, strewed with chop- ped eggs: and let it be accom- panied also by egg sauce and boiled parsnips. Sardines Caches. Ingredients.—Sardines ; 2 eggs ; a little butter; £ spoonful of chutney ; salt and cayenne to taste. Method. — Trim the sardines carefully, and gently press them between the folds of a fish-cloth to absorb their moisture. Put the yolks of the eggs, a little butter, the chutney, and seasoning into a saucepan, and keep stirring them over a slow fire till they form a fairly stiff paste. Cover the sar- dines thoroughly with this mixture; dip each one separately in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them a delicate brown in clarified butter; and serve very hot on strips of thin, crisp toast. Sardine Sandwiches. Ingredients.—1 box of sardines; some small pieces of lettuce; pep- per and salt. Method.—Put the sardines in hot water for a few minutes to free them from the oil; wipe off the skins with a clean fish-cloth; pound the fish to a paste, in a mortar ; then add the lettuce, pepper, and salt. Spread between thin slices of bread and butter, and serve. Fried Smelts. Ingredients.—12 smelts ; a little flour; 2 eggs ; some bread-crumbs; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the smelts, and dry them thoroughly in a clean fish-cloth ; then dip them, one by one, first into the flour (to dry them); then into the eggs, pre- viously well beaten ; and, lastly, into the finely grated bread-crumbs with which the pepper and salt have been mixed. Plunge them into boiling fat or lard, and cook for about five minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve in a folded napkin. Anchovy or shrimp sauce may be served with them.43 FISH. To Bake Soles. Ingredients.—Say, 2 good soles ; 3 or 4 oz. of fresh butter; a little salt; some cayenne; 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies ; a little lemon-juice; a little pale gravy; some store sauce ; bread-crumbs ; minced parsley; and some shrimps. Method. — Clarify the butter, and pour it into the dish in which the soles are to be cooked ; add to it the salt, cayenne, anchovy-sauce, lemon-juice, gravy, and store-sauce. Put into the dish the soles, pre- viously cleaned and wiped dry ; place between them a layer of shrimps ; sprinkle over them a thick layer of bread-crumbs and minced parsley; moisten them with clarified butter; and put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a quarter of an hour. To Boil Soles. Let the sole be thoroughly fresh. If it be a large one, clean and wash it well (not skinning it); cover it with cold water, and put in a little salt and vinegar ; then, when the water boils, skim it well, and let the fish simmer very slowly for five or ten minutes. If the sole be small, it should be skinned and put in warm water, and it will be ready for the table after five minutes’ simmering. It should be served with the white skin up- wards. Send to table with shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce and dressed cucumber. Another way is to sprinkle the sole with salt and let it lie in vinegar (about 3 large spoonfuls) for a while before boiling it. Then put it, with the vinegar, into hot white stock, well seasoned, or into hot water in which an onion with a little salt and a few peppercorns have been boiled. Let it come gradually to the boil; then simmer about five minutes ; drain and serve plain, or with parsley sauce. Soles are very appetizing, cooked in this way. To Fry Soles. An hour or two before the soles are wanted for table, skin, empty, and wash them with great care; wipe them very dry, both inside and out; replace the roes ; fold and press the soles gently in a soft, clean cloth, and leave them there until, it is time to fry them. Then cover them in every part first with beaten egg, and next with fine stale bread-crumbs. Melt—in a large and perfectly clean frying- pan, over a brisk fire—as much pure-flavoured lard as will suffice to float the fish, and, before they are laid in it, take care that it is sufficiently hot to brown them quickly. A good way for the be- ginner is to throw in a small piece of bread when the fat ceases to bubble ; if it takes a good colour immediately, the soles may be put in at once. But before putting them in, take them by the head and shake all the loose crumbs off them. When they are firm and of a fine amber colour on one side, turn them on to the other by pass- ing a fork through their head and a fish-slice under them. Then, when browned on this side also, lift them out of the pan, and press them lightly between pieces of hot white blotting-paper. Dish them on a drainer covered with a hot napkin, and send them to table at once with shrimp or anchovy sauce and plain melted butter. Sole au Gratin. Ingredients, — 1 sole ; brown bread-crumbs ; 1 dessert-spoonfulFISH. 44 of chopped parsley ; 2 or 3 chop- ped mushrooms ; a small piece of chopped shalot; pepper and salt ; 1 oe. of butter ; ^ teacupful of second stock. Method.—Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs, previously browned in the oven, on a small baking-tin or fire- proof dish, and over them sprinkle half of the parsley, mushrooms, shalot, and seasoning. Lay the sole, having first skinned it and re- moved the head, fins, and tail, on this mixture, and scatter the re- maining parsley, etc., over it; cover with brown bread-crumbs; place over all the butter in small pieces, and bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve, with the stock heated and poured round it. Broiled Sprats. Let the sprats be thoroughly fresh. Wipe them dry, and fasten them in rows by running a skewer through the eyes, and dredge some flour over them. Rub some suet on the gridiron, and broil the sprats for three or four minutes, taking care to serve them very hot. Sprats can also be fried in batter. To Pot Trout. Ingredients.—teaspoonful of black pepper and allspice mixed ; 1 teaspoonful of mace; £ teaspoon- ful of cloves; ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg ; a little salt; some fresh butter. Method.—The spices must all be ground, and should be kept well corked up in a small bottle. When used, add the salt. This quantity is sufficient for seven pounds of fish. Cut open the trout; clean well with a dry cloth, but do not wash them. Remove the heads, tails, fins, and backbone ; then rub the spices well into them ; put them into a baking-dish; cover well with fresh butter, and place the dish in a slow oven, to remain till the bones are dissolved, which will take about five hours. Drain off the butter, and put the fish into pots ; press it down firmly, and pour a thin layer of fresh butter over the top. The trout should be red-fleshed, and not exceeding three quarters of a pound in weight. Other fish, such as eels, sprats, etc., or shrimps and prawns, may be done in the same way. To Boil Whitings. (French Recipe.) Scrape, clean, and wipe the fish ; lay them on a fish-plate, and place them in boiling water ; throw in a little salt, two bay-leaves, and plenty of parsley (well washed and tied together). Let the fish sim- mer, and no more, for five or ten minutes, taking care that they are not overdone. Then serve with parsley-butter, in making which you can use the liquor in which the whitings have been boiled. To Fry Whitings. Take half a dozen whitings. Clean, skin, and dry the fish tho- roughly with a cloth ; fasten their tails to their mouths ; brush them evenly with beaten egg (two will be sufficient), and cover them with fine bread-crumbs, slightly mixed with flour. Fry to a clear brown in plenty of boiling lard ; drain and dry well; dish on a heated napkin, and serve with melted butter and the sauce-cruets, or with shrimp or anchovy sauce. A. little salt may be beaten up with the eggs.fiDeats. HOW MEAT IS CUT UP. {London Style.') Beef.—1. Sirloin (for roasting). 2. Ribs : fore, middle, and chuck (for roasting or boiling). 3. Rump (roast the chump end). 4. Round or Buttock (for salting and boiling). 5. Aitchbone or Top (for salting and boiling. 6. Neck (for making soup or gravy). 7. Thin Flank (for collaring). The other parts (such as the thick flank, leg, shoulder, brisket, and shin) are used for stewing, soup, etc. Rump Steak is for broiling and frying ; and Beef Steak for stews, puddings, pies, etc. Veal.—1. Loin, best and chump (for roasting). 2. Fillet (for roasting). 3. Neck, best or scrag (for roasting). 4. Breast, best and brisket (tor roasting or stewing. 5. Knuckle, hind and fore (for stewing or boiling). The other parts are the head and blade-bone. (See ‘ Calf’s Head.’) Veal makes good stock for soups and gravies. Mutton.—1. Leg (for roasting or boiling). 2. Neck, best and scrag (for roasting or boiling). 3. Breast (for roasting, or salting and boil- ing). 4. Shoulder (for roasting). 5. Loin, best and chump (for roast- ing). The saddle is the two loins undivided ; the chine is the two sides of the neck undivided ; the haunch is the leg and loin undivided. Chops are cut from the loin ; cutlets from the thick end of the loin, the best end of the neck, or the middle of the leg. Lamb.—1. Leg (for roasting or boiling : it is the leg of house-lamb, in season just before Christmas, that is occasionally boiled). 2. Loin (for roasting). 3. Shoulder (for roasting). 4. Breast (for roasting). b. Ribs (for roasting). The fore-quarter is the shoulder, breast, and ribs together. Pork.—1. Spare-rib (for roasting). 2. Loin, fore and hmd (for roast- ing). 3. Leg (for roasting, curing, or boiling). 4. Hand (for salting). 5. Belly (for salting). The sides or flitches are made into bacon; the leg into ham. HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT. Beef.—The best is ox-beef, which has a fine open grain, is bright-red in colour, and soft to the touch. When well-fed, the lean has fat intermingled with it; and the fat throughout should be white orMEATS. 46 creamy in appearance. The suet should also be white. Heifer-beef is closer grained than ox-beef, and the fat is whiter. Bull-beef, which is coarse and dark, should be avoided. Veal.—This should be fresh killed (the calf being not being more than eight or ten weeks old). The larger it is the cheaper it should be, as, of course, it is most delicate when smallest. The lean should be white, close-grained, smooth, and juicy ; the fat, white and firm. If the flesh is clammy, and has a musty smell, it is stale and uneatable. Mutton.—The best mutton is that which is derived from a sheep four or five years old, and, in general, it may be said that mutton is most acceptable when oldest. It should be dark in colour, close in grain, and juicy; the fat white and plentiful. It should be tender, and soft to the touch. Lamb.—This should be small in size, pale in colour, firm, and smooth ; the fat should be white. Pork.—Care should be taken in the choice of pork, which, when bad, is very injurious. Be careful where you buy it. Endeavour to get it where you know that the animal has been properly fed. The best pork is white and close-grained, and has not much fat. The fat should be firm and solid, the rind thin and smooth. If the flesh is clammy, it is not good ; and if the fat has kernels in it, it is equally to be avoided. Pork should not be hung long. IIOW TO COOK MEAT. To know how to cook meat is at least as important as to know how to choose it ; for obviously, however excellent the material, that excel- lence is of no service if the most is not made of it in the cooking. Equally true is it that bad cooking will spoil the best possible material. A sine qua non is the thorough preparation of the meat. It must be scraped and washed with the minutest care ; everything objectionable being removed, and every part being adequately cleansed. This is the first duty of the cook. The second is to be careful that the cooking utensils are fit for the reception of the meat ; that they are perfectly clean; and in every respect ready for use. Thirdly, there is the vitally important question of the fire, which ought to be in the proper con- dition for cooking before that operation is begun. It is best to make it up at least an hour before you wish to use it. Nothing is worse for meat than beginning to cook it at a fire which does not give out suffi- cient heat for the purpose. Roasting.—The joint having been fixed to the jack, should be placed close to the fire, and kept there for about ten minutes, during which time the albumen and other juices in the meat are brought out, and form a sort of coating all over the surface of the joint. This coat- ing preserves at once the nutritive properties and aromatic flavour of the meat. At the end of the ten minutes, the joint should be with- drawn a little from the fire, and from that point till it is done it should be basted thoroughly at short intervals. By this means the meat is47 MEATS. prevented from drying up, and is increased in flavour. The basting is done with the fatty liquid which drains from the meat into the pan below, and which gradually grows in richness and thickness as the basting proceeds. The length of time given to roasting depends upon the size and shape of the joint, but, as a general rule, it is best to allow about a quarter of an hour for every pound of beef and mutton, and about twenty minutes for pork and veal ; in each case allowing about a quarter of a pound over. For gravy, take the liquid with which the basting has been done, and, after removing the fat from it, add to it some hot water, more or less according to circumstances. To thicken it, a little flour may be added, if liked. Should it not be sufficiently brown, add to it some burnt sugar, or some Liebig’s Extract, which will strengthen as well as colour it. Gravy should not be poured over, but round, the joint, on the dish on which it is to be taken to table. Another way is to place only a little gravy round the joint, and to serve the remainder in a small tureen. Grilling.—For this operation a strong clear fire is essential. The meat is fastened to the griller, which has been previously warmed ; and which is then affixed to the bars of the fireplace, a dish being placed underneath to catch the fat or gravy. A chop of ordinary size will take about eight minutes to do; five minutes on one side, and three on the other. Broiling.—This is cooking over, instead of before, the fire. The gridiron is placed on the fire to warm, and the chop or steak is then placed on the gridiron, which for a few minutes is kept close to the fire (as in roasting. The gridiron should then be raised more and more from the fire, according to the necessities of the case, the meat being turned occa- sionally to prevent its burning. The fire should be a clear one, and the cooking should be done carefully and slowly. Coke is better than coal for broiling. Frying.—In this process the first act is to put on the frying-pan and warm it; then put in the fat (which may be of oil, or lard, or dripping, or fat rendered down), and allow it to come to the boil. This it does not do until a pale blue vapour is seen rising from it; it must not be supposed to be boiled as soon as it begins to bubble and splutter. That is due to the presence of the water, which requires to evaporate before the fat can be said to boil. This is a very important matter; and the meat (or fish) should not be put into the pan until it is certain the fat is boiling. Then the meat should be put in at once. Frying can be done in two ways ; either with fat enough to cover the meat, which is called ‘ wet- frying,’ or with fat which is only about half an inch deep, which is called ‘ dry-frying.’ By the former mode rissoles, croquettes, fillets, and cutlets of fish, etc., maybe done ; by the latter process, steaks, fillets of beef, mutton or veal cutlets, liver and bacon, etc. In the case of wet-frying, the meat (or fish) is best coated in egg and bread-crumbs. In both cases the meat, when browned on the under side, should be turned over and browned on the other; and so on till done. When done, it should be placed on paper to allow the fat to drain ofi.MEATS. 48 Boiling.—Fresh meat should always be placed in boiling water, and kept there, the water still boiling, for about ten minutes. By this means the albumen, drawn out of the joint, forms into an outside coating, which has the effect, as in roasting, of keeping in the juices and therefore the flavour of the meat. At the end of the ten minutes the pan should be drawn away from the fire, and the meat should thereafter be kept at simmering-point till done. As a rule, a quarter of an hour should be allowed for each pound of meat, with a quarter of an hour over. But of course, as in roasting, much depends on the size and shape of the joint. A thick piece of meat will naturally take longer to cook than a thin one. Whilst the joint simmers, the water should be carefully skimmed, in order that the scum may not adhere to the meat. When the joint is about half done, a little salt should be placed in the water. Salt meat should be placed in lukewarm water, in order to draw out some of the salt; and there should be twenty minutes of simmering to each pound of meat, with twenty minutes over. In general, boiled meat is not so nutritious as roasted, because, in the former case, the coating of albumen does not offer so much resistance to the water as it does in the latter case. A leg of mutton, which has a sort of thin skin, which helps to preserve the juices, is about the most successful of all boiled joints. Stewing.—This may be described as the opposite of boiling. The meat is placed in cold water, and should never be allowed to come to the boil. It should never do more than simmer. It should be served with the water in which it is cooked, and, in order that the water may be sufficiently impregnated with meat, it should only just cover the joint, and no more. Stewing is, of course, a very lengthy process, and varies in time according to the nature of the joint. It is apt to produce a great deal of fat, and that is why stews, as a rule, are so indigestible. Baking.—The meat in this case should be put on a trivet, which in its turn should be placed on a baking-tin. The oven should be very hot, and should be kept at the same heat for a quarter of an hour, in order that the meat may obtain the coating of albumen as in roasting and boiling. Then the heat of the oven should be reduced considerably, and the remainder of the cooking done very gradually. The time for cooking the various sorts of meat is the same as in the case of roasting (which see). The oven should be well ventilated, or the meat will have an unpleasant taste. Meat is most tender when baked in a cover- ing of crust; that is to say, in the form of a pie. It can also be baked in a pie-dish. The meat should be frequently basted, and the gravy made, as in roasting. Beef Palates. (Suitable for Entrees.) Ingredients.—6 palates; 1J table- spoonful of ketchup; 1 tablespoon- ful of liquor from pickled onions; gravy; butter; flour; cayenne. Method.—First wash the palates, then lay them in a pan, and cover them with water; boil till tender.49 MEATS. Put in another pan enough gravy to cover the palates ; thicken with butter and flour, and season with cayenne or pepper, and salt. Boil up the gravy, and skim it. Cut the palates into pieces, put them in the gravy, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes ; add the ketchup and onion liquor ; boil up again, and turn into a hot dish. Roast Beef. Ingredients.—10 lb.round of beef, top side. For stuffing : 6 oz. suet ; | lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 teaspoonful of fresh parsley ; 1 teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs; pepper and salt; 2 eggs ; £ lb. beef dripping. Method.—Put the beef on a board, and make to a nice round with skewers, tied round with string, cutting in the centre of the top a hole for the stuffing. Chop the suet and parsley finely ; grate the bread-crumbs, sifting them through a strainer ; rub the herbs well through the fingers, picking them thoroughly ; then mix all to- gether in a basin with seasoning. Beat the eggs, and with them moisten the stuffing. Stuff the beef, and skewer over it a piece of greased paper, which is taken off when the beef has been in the oven for one hour. With a knife put the dripping over the sides of the beef ; then place it in a tin, and bake it for two hours, keeping it well basted. When done, put the joint on a dish, strain the fat from the tin, and into the gravy dredge a little flour, salt, and pepper. Add to the gravy \ pint of boiling water, turn out into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Serve over or with the roast beef. Boiled Round of Beef. Ingredients.—12 lb. of the silver- side of the round ; lukewarm water. Method.—Let the meat lie in salt for about ten days ; wash it well in cold water, roll it round, fasten with skewers, and bind firmly with broad tape. Put it on in lukewarm water, and boil gently for about four hours. (See directions for ‘Boiling.’) Serve with turnips, carrots, and suet-dumplings. The aitchbone of beef, and the ribs of beef rolled, may be cooked in exactly the same way. Save the liquor (in which the meat has been boiled) for pea-soup. To Salt Beef. To salt beef for immediate use, common salt, previously well dried at the fire, is better than any other pickle. The kernels should be' carefully extracted ; then sprinkle the 'meat well with salt, and six hours afterwards hang it up to drain. After it has drained, rub it thoroughly in every part with salt, and lay it in a salting-tub. Cover it over with a cloth saturated with the brine, and then with the cover, which should fit close to the tub. It must be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. A round of beef of 25 lb. weight will require 1| lb. of salt, to be rubbed in at first. Turned and rubbed every day, if not wished very salt, it may be eaten in four or five days. If you wish it red, rub it first with saltpetre, in the propor- tion of an oz., and the same quan- tity of moist sugar, to 1 lb. of common salt. Sea Pie. Ingredients.—Some tender steak; turnip, carrot, and onions ; pepper and salt; § lb. of flour ; 3 oz. of 4MEATS. 50 suet; 1 small teaspoonful of baking-powder; cold water. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables into small pieces, season with pepper and salt, and put them into a large saucepan. Simmer gently by the side of the fire. Make a stiff paste with the re- maining ingredients; roll it out to the size of the saucepan; place it over the meat, and cook the whole slowly for two and a half or three hours. When done, put the meat and vegetables on a hot dish, and place the crust on them. Sirloin of Beef. Have the sirloin cut if possible from the chump-end, as a second dish, a very excellent one, can be made out of the under-cut or fillet. (See ‘Fillets de Bceuf.’) This, the primest joint, can be either roasted or baked (see ‘ Directions for Roasting and Baking’), allow- ing twenty minutes to the pound. Garnish with horse - radish, and serve with Yorkshire Pudding (which see). Beef Steak Pie. Ingredients.—2 or 3 lb. of tender rump-steak ; pepper ; salt; flour ; water; paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Trim the steak, beat and score it slightly, and cut it into thin slices. Put a cup upside down in the centre of a pie-dish ; arrange a layer of the steak round it ; add some small pieces of fat; sprinkle with flour, pepper, and salt ; then add another layer of meat. Proceed in this way until the dish is full, when pour in suffi- cient water to make the gravy. Line the edge of the dish with paste, wet it, and lay on the cover, pressing the edges lightly together, and trimming evenly all round. Make a hole in the top of the crust to allow the gases to escape ; decorate the pie with leaves, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for about two hours. Care must be taken that the crust does not get too brown before the meat is suffi- ciently cooked. A good plan is to half cook the meat before covering it with the paste. The meat should then be allowed to get cold before the pie is made. Beef-kidney, or a few mutton- kidneys, may be added to the pie with advantage. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding. Ingredients.—Suet paste (which see) ; 1 lb. tender rump-steak ; 1 beef-kidney ; salt and pepper to taste; water. Method.—Line a pudding-basin (having a thick rim, if possible) with the paste, leaving an inch or two over the edge. Beat the steak, and cut it and the kidney (pre- viously well wiped) into small pieces, which pepper and salt, and place in alternate layers in the basin until it is full. Then pour in sufficient water to more than half fill the dish. Cover the whole with crust, moisten the edges well, and turn up the overlapping paste, and press it firmly down over the other. Scald and flour a cloth, tie it over the pudding, and boil for four hours. As the water reduces, add more ; but let it be hot, as the pudding must be kept boiling. On removing the cloth, cut a small round piece out of the top of the crust, to allow the steam to escape. Serve in the basin with a napkin arranged neatly round it. Beef Steak & la Parisienne. Ingredients. — Piece of tenderMEATS. 51 rump-steak, about f inch thick ; pepper ; oil; salt; a little minced parsley ; butter. Method.—Trim the steak neatly, beat it slightly, sprinkle it with pepper, dip it in oil, and broil it over a clear fire ; keep turning it constantly until it is done, which should be in about 15 minutes. Sprinkle with salt; mix the minced parsley with a little butter, and place it either over or under the steak. Garnish the dish with fried potatoes, and serve. Eeef Stew. Ingredients.—2 lb. of lean beef— the ‘inferior’ bits will do, brisket or round; ± onion, chopped; % tea- spoonful of allspice; 1 tablespoon- ful of sweet herbs minced, thyme, parsley, marjoram; pepper and salt; 1 tablespoonful browned flour; 2 cupfuls of cold water. Method.—Cut the meat into inch- square dice. Put them into a sauce- pan with the water; fit on a close top, and set where it will heat gra- dually, but not boil under an hour. Move it then to a spot where it will just bubble, and stew an hour and a half longer, all the while closely covered. Add onion, spice, herbs, and seasoning ; and stew, covered, half an hour longer. The meat should be so tender as to fall to pieces when a fork pierces it. Stir in the browned flour, and boil one minute. Send to table in a deep dish. It should be deliciously savoury, if this recipe be exactly obeyed. Slow boiling in a close vessel, and piquante seasoning, are the essentials to success. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Ingredients.—6 or 7 lb. of a brisket of beef ; vinegar ; salt ; 5 or 6 carrots ; 5 turnips ; 5 small onions; 1 head of celery; 1 blada of mace (pounded) ; 2 whole all- spice pounded) ; butter ; flour ; a little ketchup ; pepper and salt ; water. Method.—Rub the meat over with vinegar and salt, and let it re- main for half an hour before cooking it; then put it into a saucepan (not too large) with enough water to cover it. Simmer very gently for one hour, skimming frequently ; and then add the vegetables, cut small. Continue stewing slowly for about two hours longer until the meat is perfectly tender. Re- move the bones, dish the meat, and lay the vegetables round it. Thick- en the required quantity of gravy with butter and flour; add the spices, ketchup, and seasoning ; give one boil; pour some over the meat, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Roast Bullock’s Heart. Ingredients.—3 oz. of chopped suet ; 3 oz. of bread-crumbs ; 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley ; 1 dessert-spoonful of mixed dried herbs; 1 gill of milk ; some pep- per and salt ; 1 bullock’s heart ; 1 pint of cold water ; 1 onion ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of flour, and 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ket- chup. Method.—First of all, make the stuffing for this dish by mixing together the suet, bread-crumbs, parsley, and herbs, adding to them the milk, and seasoning the whole with pepper and salt. Then take the heart and wash it in several waters, cutting off the valves which close the arteries (the ‘deaf ears’). Cut away the partitions between the various cells of the heart, and insert the stuffing in the large cell 4—2MEATS. 52 thus made, covering it, for security’s sake, with a sheet of greased paper. Dry the outside of the heart with a towel, and place it with the drip- pings in an oven-tin. It should bake at the rate of twenty minutes for each pound and twenty minutes in addition, basting going on all the time. Meanwhile, the ‘ deaf ears ’ should be washed, placed with the cold water and the onion (sliced) in a saucepan, and allowed to simmer for an hour. The heart being baked sufficiently, strain the liquor from the ‘ deaf ears.’ Melt the butter in the saucepan, stir in the flour, and add to it the strained liquor, ket- chup, pepper and salt. The whole should be cooked for two minutes, at the end of which the paper should be removed, and the heart placed on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round it. Then serve. Collared Beef. Ingredients.—7 lb. of the thin end of the flank of beef ; 2 oz. of coarse sugar; 6 oz. of salt ; 1 oz. of salt- petre ; 1 large handful of parsley (minced) ; 1 dessert-spoonful of minced sage ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; J teaspoonful of pounded allspice ; salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Choose fine, tender beef, but not too fat, lay it in a dish, rub in the sugar, salt, and salt- petre, and let it remain in the pickle for a week or ten days ; turn- ing and rubbing it every day. Then bone it, remove all the gristle and the coarse skin of the inside part, and sprinkle it thickly with parsley, herbs, spice, and seasoning in the above proportion’ taking care that the former are finely minced, and the latter well pounded. Roll the meat up in a cloth as tightly as possible, bind it firmly with broad tape, and boil it gently for six hours. Immediately on taking it out of the pot, put it under a heavy weight (without undoing it) and let it remain till cold. Note : During the time the beef is in pickle, it should be kept cool and regularly rubbed and turned every day. Scotch Collops. Ingredients.—2 lb. of good, juicy beef ; a little flour, pepper, salt, ketchup, and boiling water. Method.—Mince the meat very finely, being careful to take out all bits of gristle and skin. Place it in a clean saucepan over the fire, dredge in a little flour and pepper, and stir the meat briskly with a fork until it is entirely free from lumps, and is no longer red ; cover close, and let it stew for a few minutes in its own gravy, then pour in a spoonful of ketchup and a little boiling water. Simmer slowly for one hour and a half. Add the salt when it has cooked one hour. Serve in a hot dish garnished with sippets of crisp toast. A few nicely poached eggs laid on the top of the collops are an improvement. Fillets de Bceuf. Ingredients.—The undercut of a sirloin of beef ; butter ; ± pint (or rather more) of rich gravy; 2 small dessert-spoonfuls of any good sauce ; pepper and salt; lemon- juice, fried mushrooms, or tomato sauce. Method.—Carefully remove all the skin and sinews from the under-cut of the sirloin ; cut the beef into small pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten them with a rolling-pin, make them53 MEATS. into a round shape, season with pepper and salt, and fry quickly (about eight minutes) in a little butter over a good fire. Turn them when you see the gravy bubble upon their surface. When done, arrange them neatly round mashed potatoes, on a dish. Pour a little gravy into the frying-pan, and add the above quantity of any good sauce preferred ; boil over the fire until the gravy is somewhat re- duced, then serve with a squeeze of lemon-juice, or a few fried mushrooms added to the sauce ; or, if liked, tomato sauce may be served with the fillets. Stewed Kidney (1). Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; a little cold water ; sugar ; boiling water ; 1 ox kidney ; 1 large onion; 6 cloves; a small piece of butter or bacon-fat; pepper and salt; a little ketchup. Method.—Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water; burn some sugar in an iron spoon, and over this, and on to the flour and water, pour enough boiling water to ex- tract the colour of the sugar and set the flour. Next, take the kid- ney, and, without dividing it, cut the hard core out of the centre; into this space put the onion stuffed with 6 cloves, also the small piece of butter or bacon-fat. Put the kidney into a stewpan, and pour over it the above mixture; cover closely, and stew gently for four hours. An hour before dish- ing it, add the seasoning and a little ketchup. Serve with mashed po- tatoes. This is an excellent and economical dish. Stewed Kidney (2). Ingredients.— 1 beef-kidney ; a little butter ; flour ; pepper and salt; boiling water ; 1 spoonful of ketchup. Method.— Wash and dry the kid- ney, having previously removed all the fat from the middle of it; cut it into slices, dredge them well with flour and pepper, and fry them in butter until nicely browned on both sides. Pour in a little boiling water, and stew very gently for two hours and a half or three hours Add the salt and ketchup about half an hour before dishing. Stewed Kidney and Calf’s Liver. Ingredients.—1 beef-kidney ; a little butter; flour ; pepper ; salt; boiling water ; f lb. of calf’s liver; a little ketchup. Method.—Prepare the kidney as directed in the preceding recipe. Wash, and wipe the liver very dry, slice it thinly, flour, pepper and salt it, and fry it a nice brown in butter ; then cut it into very small dice and add it to the kidney, pre- viously cut in the same way. Serve on a very hot dish, and garnish with sippets of crisp toast. Beef Olives. (An excellent Dish.) Ingredients.—2 lb. of rump-steak; 2 eggs ; some very finely grated bread-crumbs ; flour, pepper and salt ; a little ketchup. Method.—Place the steaks, which must be cut rather thin, on a meat- board, beat them slightly, cut them into seven or eight pieces, dip each piece in the eggs (already beaten), then into the bread-crumbs; season with pepper and salt, place a small lump of suet in the centre of each olive, roll up tightly, and bin^ round with thread, which should be cut ready in lengths about threeMEATS. 54 quarters of a yard. Place the olives in a stewpan in which some suet has previously been melted, dredge a little flour lightly over them, and fry them a rich brown all round ; pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, and add the ketchup. Stew very gently for two and a half or three hours. Remove the threads, and serve. Stewed Ox-Cheek. Ingredients.—1 ox-cheek ; 3 or 4 carrots; 2 turnips ; 3 onions ; 1 head of celery; a bunch of sweet herbs; pepper and salt; 2 quarts of water ; | lb. of flour. Method.—Soak the ox-cheek in water for several hours, and wash it thoroughly; cut it into neat pieces ; put them into a stewpan with the above proportion of water; add the vegetable (cut up), herbs, and seasoning, and simmer very gently for four or five hours, until quite tender. Make a thickening of the flour, which stir into the gravy ; cook well, then strain over the ox-cheek, previously placed on a hot dish. Use the bones for soup. Boiled Ox-Tongue. Ingredients.—1 ox-tongue (fresh from the pickle) ; cold water. Method.—Choose a tongue with a nice smooth skin, and having soaked it in plenty of water for three or four hours, put it into a sauce- pan with enough cold water to well cover it; bring gradually to the boil, skim well, then simmer gently from four to six hours according to size. When quite tender, re- move the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root. To straighten the tongue, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through the top. When cold, put a paper frill round the root, and garnish with parsley. If the tongue is a dried one, and rather hard, soak it over-night in water. Potted Beef. Ingredients.—Pieces of roast or boiled beef, cold ; 6 oz. of butter ; cayenne; pounded mace. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces, and beat it well in a mortar, with some butter. Season with cayenne and mace, mix together well, and put into proper jars. A layer of clarified butter or lard should be put over the potted meat. Rolled Ribs of Beef. Having boned and rolled the meat, fasten it securely with wooden skewers, and either roast it before a clear fire, or bake it in the oven. (See directions for ‘ Roasting ’ and ‘ Baking.’) Allow rather more than a quarter of an hour to the pound. Serve with gravy and horse-radish sauce. For a small family, one or two ribs would be sufficient. The bones should be made into stock. To Fry Rump-Steak. Ingredients.—A good beef-steak; butter or dripping. Method.—Cut the steak rather, but not too thick. Put a small piece of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, and, when hot, put in the steak. Fry for about ten minutes, turning the steak fre- quently to avoid burning. Place the steak, when done, on a very hot dish, and serve with its own gravy, to which may be added a little butter and ketchup. Season all with pepper and salt to taste. Stewed Steak with Onions. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 lb. of tender steak ; 2 Spanish onions; £ slice of55 MEATS. bread; 1 clove; 1 pint of boiling water ; pepper and salt. Method.—Lay the steak on a clean board, beat it well, and score it across with a knife; cut it in small pieces, dredge each piece with flour, place them in a stewpan, in which a little suet has been rendered down, and brown them nicely on both sides ; add the boiling water, cover close, and stew slowly for one hour; then add the onions cut in thin slices, the bread toasted black, the clove, and pepper and salt to taste. ' Let the whole simmer gently for another two hours ; then serve. Toad in a Hole. Ingredients.—1 lb. good, thick beef-steak ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of milk; a little salt; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Method.—Put the steak in the oven in a baking-tin for about ten minutes, the fat of the steak will prevent it from burning. Prepare a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour, seasoned with a little salt, take out the tin, and pour the batter over the steak. Replace the tin, and bake for about half an hour. Jellied Tongue. Ingredients.—1 quart good beef stock; 1 ox tongue; 1 teacupful cold water ; 1 oz. gelatine ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the tongue in a pan on the fire in enough water to cover it, and, when it boils, remove all scum : then put it at the side to cook slowly until quite tender. When done, take it out, skin it, curl it up, and place it in a large mould. Put the gelatine to soak in cold water for ten minutes, then place it in a saucepan with the stock, and season to taste. Stir till boiling, then pour through a flannel bag. Pour the gelatine and stock into the mould, and turn out on a dish when cold. Tripe. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Tripe ; water ; 3 onions ; 1 pint of milk; 1 dessert- spoonful of flour ; butter ; chopped parsley ; a little white pepper, and salt. Method.— See that the tripe (un- dressed) is quite fresh, clean it thoroughly, cut it into moderately sized pieces for helping at table, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them. Boil slowly for seven or eight hours until quite tender. If the tripe is old, it will require even longer boil- ing than this. Cut the onions into thin slices, and steam them soft in a good piece of butter. Make a thickening of the flour and milk,add the pepper, salt, and chopped par- sley, and stir one way over the fire until it boils. Put in the tripe (out of the liquor in which it has been boiled) and the onions; let the whole simmer gently for ten minutes, then serve. This makes a delicious and economical dish. Another way is to leave the tripe in the water, and to stir into it, a few minutes before dishing, the beaten up yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of corn-flour, and 1 of butter. Tripe with Onion Sauce. Ingredients. — Tripe (dressed); milk and water; onion sauce. (See ‘ Sauces.’) Method.—Wash and trim the tripe, put it on in cold water, bring it to the boil, then throw the waterMEATS. 56 away; cut the tripe into neat pieces, put it into a saucepan with sufficient milk and water to cover it, and stew it gently for two hours. Have ready the onion sauce nicely pre- pared, arrange the tripe neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Stewed Breast of Lamb. Ingredients.— 1 breast of lamb ; pepper and salt; white stock ; 1 glass of sherry ; butter and flour. Method.—Remove the skin from the lamb, cut it into small pieces, and season wTith pepper and salt. Put the meat into a stewpan, pour in sufficient stock to cover it, and stew very slowly for about two hours, until perfectly tender. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; add the sherry, boil one minute, then pour over the lamb. Serve with green peas, nicely boiled. Lamb Chops. Ingredients. — Chops from the loin about f inch thick; pepper and salt; mashed potatoes. Method.—Broil the chops for about ten or fifteen minutes over a clear fire. While cooking, sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Have ready a mound of nicely mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the chops round it, and serve. Lamb Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cutlets from the best end of a neck of lamb ; 1 or 2 eggs ; some finely grated bread- crumbs ; pepper and salt; butter ; green peas, or French beans. Method,—Trim the cutlets neatly, cutting oft the greater portion of the fat, and chop off the thick part! of the bone; flatten with a knife, and form into a nice shape. Dip the cutlets first into egg, then into bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt; afterwards dip them separately into clarified butter ; sprinkle more crumbs over them, and fry for about ten minutes, turning occasionally. Pile the peas or beans (nicely boiled) in the cen- tre of a hot dish ; drain the cutlets before the fire, and arrange them neatly round the vegetables. In- stead of being fried the cutlets may be broiled, if preferred. Garnish with slices of lemon. Lamb’s Fry. Ingredients.—1 lb. of lamb’s fry; 1 egg ; finely grated bread-crumbs; a little minced parsley; pepper and salt; fried parsley. Method.—Boil the lamb’s fry for about fifteen minutes, then drain, and dry it well ; dip it into the egg, and then into the bread-crumbs, seasoned with minced parsley and plenty of pepper and salt. Fry for about five minutes, until it is a nice colour on both sides. Serve on a hot folded napkin, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Lamb Haricot. Ingredients.—2 lb. of small chops from the neck; butter; flour; pepper; 1 turnip ; 2 carrots; some green peas ; salt; a little ketchup. Method.—Melt some butter in a stewpan ; trim the chops neatly, flour and pepper them, and fry them a light brown in the butter ; cover with hot water, and stew very gently for two and a half or three hours. Parboil the turnips and carrots, cut them into small pieces, and add them to the meat (with the peas) one hour before serving ; season with ketchup and salt. The gravy should just cover the vege- tables and no more; it may beMEATS. 57 thickened with a little flour, if required. Serve on a large dish. Leg of Lamb. This may be roasted, baked, or boiled, as preferred. (See direc- tions.) If roasted, serve with mint sauce ; if boiled, serve Avith ' maitre d’hotel sauce. (See ‘ Sauces.’) Loin of Lamb, Braised. Ingredients.—Loin of lamb ; a few carrots and green onions ; 9 or 10 slices of fat bacon ; 1 pint of stock ; salt; pounded mace ; sweet herbs. Method.—Take the bones from the lamb, and after laying two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan of convenient size, put the meat on the bacon. Take the rest of the bacon, and arrange it round and over the lamb, pour the stock into the pan, Avith a few herbs and vegetables, and sufficient seasoning, and simmer slowly for two hours ; take out the meat and dry it ; bring the gravy to a glaze (see ‘ Glaze ’), and with it glaze the lamb. Serve with boiled green peas. Boned Quarter of Lamb. Ingredients.—Quarter of lamb ; for stuffing : some lean bacon, suet, rind of £ lemon, minced parsley, sweet herbs, salt, cayenne, pounded mace, bread-crumbs, egg ; melted butter. Method.—Remove the bone from the lamb, fill the space with stuff- ing made with the above ingredi- ents ; roll the meat round, bind with tape, and either roast or bake, as preferred. (See directions.) Serve with melted butter in a tureen. I Shoulder of Lamb. This may be roasted or baked, as preferred. (See directions.) Serve with mint sauce. The saddle and loin of lamb may be cooked in the same way. Care must be taken that the latter does not bum ; baste constantly. Ragout of Lamb—Sweetbreads. Ingredients. — Sweetbreads (enough for a dish) ; gravy ; pepper and salt; flour ; 2 eggs ; J pint of cream (or milk) ; 1 dessert-spoonful of parsley ; nutmeg. Method. — Whiten the sweet- breads with boiling water, and put them into a pan with sufficient gravy to stew them. Season the gravy with pepper and salt, add the flour and butter. Beat the eggs well, and stir into them the cream, parsley, and a little nutmeg or other seasoning. Take the pan off the fire, and stir the eggs, etc., into the gravy, place the whole over the fire until thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Vegetables cut small and partly boiled may be put into this dish with the gravy. Sweetbreads of Lamb. (Suitable for Entree.) Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads ; 2 eggs ; 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream; 6 small onions ; pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste, butter and flour ; a little minced parsley. Method.—After soaking in rather warm water, put the sweetbreads into enough boiling water to cover them, and put them at the side of the fire to simmer for twelve minutes ; they may then be taken out and placed in cold water. Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour brown in it the onions, andMEATS. 58 add the stock and seasoning. Lard the sweetbreads and put them in the gravy to stew for twenty minutes. Beat the eggs, and add them to the cream, with the minced parsley; take the stewpan off the fire, put in the cream and eggs, bring nearly, but not quite, to the boil, and finally add some boiled asparagus-tops. The dish is then ready to be served. Mutton Cutlets h la Jardiniere. Ingredients.—Some good stock or mutton broth; vegetables (fresh haricots, green peas, sprigs of cauli- flower, etc.); a few mushrooms ; butter ; flour ; mutton cutlets ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the above vege- tables, and any other vegetables liked, that will take the same time to cook, in some good stock or mut- ton broth. When sufficiently cooked, throw them into a stew- pan, in which you have previously made a thickening (or roux) of butter and flour; season with pepper and salt, and let them simmer. Meanwhile, fry the cutlets (sea- soned) in butter, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and pour the ragofit of vegetables over them. Yeal cutlets or pork chops may be cooked in the same way. Scotch Haggis. Ingredients.—A sheep’s pluck ; | lb. of the curly suet from the gut; 1 full breakfast-cupful of medium Scotch oatmeal ; 1 onion, chopped fine ; salt and pepper. Method.—Take away the lights from the sheep’s pluck ; boil all the remainder (heart, liver, etc., in- cluding the two pieces of tripe, when cleaned, that, accompany the aunch) for three quarters of an our, preserving the liquor. Chop all finely, adding the suet, oat- meal, onron, and plenty of pepper and salt. Mix the whole in a basin with as much of the liquor as will make it of a proper consist- ency. Having cleaned the paunch and sewed up any holes, sew up the mince in it, leaving room for ex- pansion, and plump the haggis into boiling water ; boil for an hour and a half, without the lid on the pot, taking care to prick it at intervals with a needle (not with a fork, which would burst it). Lift out of the pot with a ladle, and serve hot. This is a genuine Scotch Haggis. Note : When a lamb’s pluck is in season and can be procured, it is preferable, together with young onions with the green tails. Haricot of Mutton. Ingredients. — 8 nice mutton- chops ; 6 moderate-sized onions; lijr tablespoonful of flour; 2 tur- nips ; 3 carrots ; seasoning to taste ; small piece of butter or lard; 1 pint of stock. Method.—Put the butter into a frying-pan,and, when heated, fry the chops a nice brown. Slice the onions, turnips, and carrots, and place them in the pan after the chops have been removed, then put all into a stewpan. Make a gravy by adding to the flour and seasoning one pint of stock, which should be gradu- ally stirred into the flour. Put the gravy into the frying-pan and stir till it thickens, then add it to the chops and vegetables. Stew slowly for about 3 hours, and serve. Sheep’s Head. Ingredients. — 1 sheep’s head (prepared for boiling) ; butter; flour; pepper and salt; lemon- juice. Method.- -Soak the heal well in59 MEATS. plenty of salt and water, and wash it thoroughly. Having removed the tongue and brains, tie the head into shape with string, put it with the tongue into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and simmer gently for about four hours. Meanwhile, let the brains soak in salt and water for an hour or two to clean them and draw out the blood; a quarter of an hour before the head is cooked add the brains tied in muslin. Make a thickening of butter and flour, add some broth from the sheep’s head, also pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar; stir well, and boil. When done, place the head on a hot dish and remove the string. Add the brains, chopped small, to the sauce ; pour over the head, and serve. Sheep’s Head Pie. Ingredients. — 1 good white sheep’s head and feet; some thin slices of bacon ; some hard-boiled eggs (sliced); pepper, salt, mace, and ginger ; some nice beef gravy; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method. — The head and feet having been singed and cleaned, place them in a saucepan and let them simmer at the side of the fire for five or six hours. Remove the bones, and cut the head and feet neatly into small pieces. Take a pie-dish, and at the bottom of it place a layer of sheep’s head, over which sprinkle a mixture of the pepper, salt, mace, and ginger. On this place a layer of bacon, and then one of egg. Continue this process till the dish is filled, and then add the gravy. Cover with paste, and bake for an hour and a half. In Scotland oysters are used instead of eggs, and this is un- doubtedly to be desired, when it is possible. Irish Stew. (An economical Family Dish.) Ingredients. — 3 lb. of potatoes ; 2 lb. of mutton-chops off the loin or neck (cut thin) ; 3 or 4 onions ; pepper, salt, and water. Method.—Peel the potatoes, cut them into thin slices, and boil them for a quarter of an hour to extract the unwholesome water. Cut the fat from the chops, beat them slightly, and place them in an enamelled stewpan with alternate layers of potatoes and onions cut into very thin rings. Season each layer well. The saucepan should be so closely packed that only a small quantity of water will be re- quired to fill it. Cover with a tightly fitting lid, and stew very gently for three hours. Sheep’s Kidneys. Ingredients. — Sheep’s kidneys ; cold water ; some fat bacon ; salt and pepper; butter; bread-crumbs (finely grated). Method.—Soak the kidneys for a few minutes in cold water; re- move the skin, cut them open, but do not quite separate them. Lard them with very fine strips of fat bacon, skewer them flat, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Melt some butter (3 or 4 oz.) in a frying - pan ; dip the kid- neys first into the butter, then into the fiiTely grated crumbs; place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn once or twice. A simpler way is to split and skin the kidneys, dip them in clarified butter, broil over a clear fire (sea- soning while cooking), and serve on slices of fried bread.MEATS. 60 Boiled Leg of Mutton. Ingredients. — Leg of mutton, about 8 lb.; water ; salt. Method.—Place the leg of mutton in a saucepan, and cover withwater slightly salted. As the scum rises, remove with a spoon. The meat must boil slowly for rather more than two hours. Dish a little of the liquor with the meat, and re- serve the rest for broth. The car- rots and turnips generally served with this dish should be boiled separately, if the meat is to keep well. Send to table with caper sauce. Shoulder and neck of mutton may be boiled in the same way. Serve with onion-sauce. The neck of mutton (very convenient for small families) may also be either roasted or stewed. Boned Shoulder of Mutton, Stuffed. Ingredients.—1 shoulder of mut- ton ; some veal stuffing. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method. — Having carefully boned the shoulder of mutton, fill the space with good veal stuffing ; roll up tightly, and bind firmly with tape. It may be either roasted or baked. (See directions for ‘ Roasting’ and ‘ Baking.’) A leg of mutton may be boned and stuffed in the same way. Devonshire Squab Pie. Ingredients.—Pie-crust; pippins; mutton-steaks; onions ; paste. (See‘Pastry.’) Method.—Pare, core, and slice the pippins; boil the onions in two waters, and slice them. Let the steaks be cut from the loin, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Cover a pie-dish with the crust, and fit in a layer of the pippins, a layer of the mutton, another layer of pippins, and two sliced onions. Repeat these layers until the dish is full, when pour over a pint of water. Cover with crust, make a hole in the top, ornament, glaze, and bake in good oven. Mutton Steaks. (French Recipe.) Ingredients.—Mutton-steaks cut from the neck ; a few small onions; savoury herbs ; butter ; flour ; pepper and salt; vinegar ; egg ; bread-crumbs ; some finely minced herbs. Method.—Trim the steaks neatly, shorten the bones, and put them aside with the trimmings, for gravy. Place the steaks in a stewpan, with a few small onions, savoury herbs, and sufficient water to cover; let the whole come to the boil, then drain the steaks on a dish, and add to the liquor in the stewpan the bones and trimmings ; boil these for one hour, then strain. When cold, skim the gravy, put it into a saucepan, over the fire, and thicken with browned butter and flour, adding seasoning and a little vine- gar. Have ready the steaks nicely fried (having previously dipped them in egg, breadcrumbs, and finely minced herbs) ; place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve. To Boil Bacon. Soak it in warm water for an hour or two before dressing it; cut off the rusty parts, and scrape the rind as clean as possible. Put it on in cold water, and let it sim- mer g'ntly until thoroughly cooked. Skim carefully. A piece of bacon of 2 lb. will take about one hourMEATS,. 61 and three - quarters to cook. When done, remove the rind and sprinkle with raspings. To Fry Bacon. Remove the rind from the bacon, cut in thin slices, place them in a cold frying-pan, and cook slowly in their own fat over a gentle fire. Turn two or three times, brown very slightly, and serve on a hot dish. To toast bacon, cut it in thin slices and place it on a toaster, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve alone, or with fried eggs, and sippets of bread fried in the bacon fat. Brawn. Ingredients.—Pig's head weigh- ing 8 lb., 2 lb. of lean beef ; 3 tablespoonfuls of salt; 2^ teaspoon- fuls of pepper; 8 cloves; cayenne to taste. Method.—Clean the head care- fully, and put it into a saucepan with the beef, and enough water to cover both ; when almost boil- ing, skim the liquor. Let the meat then boil for three hours, when the bones should easily be taken out. When this has been done, set a dish before the fire, set the meat on it, and chop finely, and as fast as possible. Stir into this the mixed seasoning of salt, pepper, cayenne, and pounded cloves, and put the whole into a brawn tin, or mould, pressed with weights. Let it stand for several hours; when cold, dip the tin into boiling water for three minutes, and the brawn is ready for use. To Boil Ham. Soak the ham in cold water from twelve to twenty hours, accord- ing to the length of time it has been cured. Scrape it well, and put it into a saucepan with plenty of lukewarm water. Bring it gra- dually to the boil, and as the scum rises carefully remove it. Keep it very gently simmering until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiling, nor boil too quickly. Allow twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. When done, let the ham remain in the liquor until nearly cold, then strip off the rind, cover with raspings, place a paper frill round the knuckle, and garnish with parsley. Devonshire Cured Ham. Ingredients.—10 lb. ham ; H oz. salt prunella ; 1^ oz. saltpetre ; 12 oz. salt. For the pickle : 2 gal. of water ; 3^ lb. of salt ; lb. of coarse sugar ; 2 lb. of bay salt. Method.—Pound well together the ingredients first named, and rub into the meat. Put it then into a large basin, rubbing it and turning it each day for two days. It should then be placed to pickle in the following manner : Make the pickle of the ingredients named ; turn it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and while com- ing to the boil stir frequently; then skim off all scum, boil for quarter of an hour, and pour over the meat. Rub and turn the meat every day for a fortnight, and then it may be taken out, drained for an hour, and covered with sawdust. It must next be smoked for a fort- night, and will then be fit for use. The pickle, if boiled up and skimmed again, may be made use- ful for tongues, etc. It should have 1|- lb. of salt and 1^ lb. of treacle added before use, and should be kept well corked up.MEATS, 62 Potted Ham. Ingredients. — To 1 lb. of lean ham allow ^ lb. of fat ; 1 teaspoon- ful of pounded mace ; nutmeg grated ; ^ teaspoonful of cayenne. Method.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together ; pound it in a mortar, season with the remainder of the ingredients, put it into a deep baking-dish, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven ; press it well into a stone jar, fill up the jar with clarified lard, and cover closely. For sandwiches, etc. If well seasoned it will keep a con- siderable time in winter. Pigs’ Feet. Ingredients.—6 pigs’ feet; H oz. flour; 2 pints of milk; salt and pepper. Method.—Clean and scrape the feet, cutting them across the knuckle to the joint, put them in a saucepan in cold water, and, when this boils, drain it off. Put the feet on again in boiling water, and boil till tender. Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water. Pour off the water from the feet, cover them with the milk, let them stew for half an hour, and then add the flour. Season to taste, and boil all together for a few minutes. Serve in a deep dish. Pig’s Pettitoes. Ingredients.—A pig’s feet, heart, and liver ; butter; flour ; pepper; salt; sippets of toasted bread. Method.—Put the feet, heart, and liver into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them; simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then take out the heart and liver and mince them very fine. Let the feet stew for about half an hour from the time they first boiled ; put back the minced liver and heart; thicken the gravy with butter and flour; season with pepper and salt, and simmer the whole gently for about five minutes, stirring occasionally. Place the mince in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the feet (pre- viously split) and the sippets of toast alternately round it, pour the gravy in the middle, and serve. Pork Chops. Ingredients.—Some loin chops ; pepper and salt. Method.—Trim the chops neatly, cutting away the greater portion of the fat; dust with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire for about twenty minutes, turning them occasionally. If preferred, they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. When done, arrange round a dish, with apple sauce or chopped cabbage, in the centre. Serve with tomato sauce in a tureen. Koast Leg of Pork. Ingredients. — Leg of pork ; stuffing. Method.—Scald the perk as if for boiling; score the skin to make the crackle, but do not cut into the fat. Place oiled paper over if the fire is fierce, but re- move it before the pork is done, or the crackle will not be brown. Stuff with sage and onion stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat,’ etc.) placed in a hole prepared for it. Serve with apple shuce. (See ‘Sauces.’) Loin of Pork. Score it with a sharp knife, and either roast or bake it. (See direc- tions.) Serve with apple-sauce in a tureen. The loin may be stuffed,MEATS. 63 if liked, with sage and onion stuffing, or if preferred, the stuff- ing may be baked and served separately. To Boil Pickled Pork. Put the pork in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it ; bring gradually to the boil, then simmer gently until tender. Allow rather more than twenty minutes to the pound, as pork should be well cooked. Should the pork be very salt, soak it in water for about two hours before boiling it. Pork and Apple Pie. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 lb. lean, fresh pork; 4 winter apples, tart and juicy ; 1 heaped tablespoonful of butter ; pepper, salt, mace, and a pinch of cloves ; browned flour ; puff paste. (See ‘Pastry.’) Method. — Cut the pork into inch lengths, cover with a cup of cold water, and stew gently half an hour. Let it get cold, skim the fat from the gravy, take out the pork, and arrange a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish. Season with pepper and salt. Over the layer spread sliced apple, sprinkled with sugar, spice, and small pieces of butter. Proceed in this order until pork and apples are used up, having apples for the upper layer. Pepper and salt the gravy, stir in the browned flour, pour it into the pie. and cover with the pastry. Bake for hours, not too fast. Serve hot, and make only in cold weather. Sausages. Ingredients.—| lb. of pork, fat and lean ; ^ lb. of lean veal; £lb. of beef suet; £ lb. of finely grated bread-crumbs; the rind of \ lemon ; ^ nutmeg ; 3 sage leaves ; | teaspoonful of pepper ; 1 tea- spoonful of salt ; ^ teaspoonful of savory; £ teaspoonful of marjoram. Method.—Remove all skin and gristle from the pork, and chop it very finely with the veal and suet; mince the lemon-peel and add it with the bread-crumbs and half nutmeg, grated ; wash the sage- leaves, chop them finely, and mix them and the remaining ingre- dients with the sausage-meat. Blend all thoroughly together, and put into delicately clean skins. Calf’s Head Boiled. Ingredients.•—1 calf’s head (pre- pared for boiling) ; cold water ; salt ; melted butter; minced parsley ; pepper and salt; lemon- juice. Method.—Wash the head tho- roughly ; remove the brains ; soak the head in cold water, then in hot water to blanch it ; soak the brains also in warm water to remove the blood. Put the head into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it well ; when it boils, add a little salt, and care- fully remove the scum as it rises. Boil gently from two hours to two hours and a half, until tender. Clean and skin the brains, put them into hot water, with salt ; boil gently for about fifteen minutes; drain, chop them, and mix them with a few spoonfuls of the melted butter, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt, and a spoonful of lemon-juice. Take up the head, skin the tongu§, and put it in the centre of a dish with the brains round it. Pour some melted butter with parsley over64 MEATS. the head, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Serve with ham, bacon, or pickled pork. For a small family half a calf’s head would be sufficient. The liquor in which the head was boiled should be saved for soup. Calf’s Head Pie. (Scotch.) Ingredients. — 1 calf’s head ; small knuckle of veal; rind of 1 lemon ; 2 onions ; a fagot of parsley and winter savory ; a few white peppercorns; 2 blades of mace ; a few pieces of isinglass ; some thin slices of ham; a little forcemeat made from the knuckle; the yolks of 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs ; white pepper ; salt; a little nutmeg; a little grated lemon- peel ; gravy ; putf - paste. (See ‘Pastry.’) Method.—Scald and soak the head, and simmer it for half an hour in a little water, with the knuckle of veal, the lemon-rind, onions, parsley, savory, pepper- corns, and mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut into bits of different shapes. Skin and cut the tongue into square pieces. Boil the broth, in which the head and knuckle were simmered, with a few bits of isinglass till it is re- duced to a strong jelly gravy. Place a layer of thin slices of lean ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, then some of the head and tongue, a little forcemeat made from the knuckle, and the hard yolks cut in two; season with pepper, salt, a very little nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel. Fill the dish thus with alternate layers, pour in as much as it will hold of the gravy jelly, cover it with puff- paste and bake for an hour. To be eaten cold. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. * Ingredients.—lb. of calf’s liver; \ lb. of bacon ; 1 teaspoonful of flour; \ pint of second stock ; a little ketchup ; 6 drops of caramel; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the liver tho- roughly, cut it into thin slices, and dry them in a clean towel. Next, having sliced the bacon thinly and removed the rind, fry it nicely over a gentle fire for about five minutes; when done, place it neatly on a hot dish, and put it in the oven or on the stove, to keep it from cooling. Fry the slices of liver in the bacon gravy for ten minutes, then place them on the dish with the bacon. Now stir into the frying-pan the flour, and when it has become nicely browned, stir in the stock also. Keep stirring the whole till it boils, then add the caramel, ketchup, pepper, and salt, and pour over the liver and bacon. Stewed Calf’s Liver. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of calf’s liver ; £ lb. of fat bacon or pork ; 5 spring carrots ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Lard the liver with the bacon, and when it has been well browned in the butter (pre- viously made very hot in a stew- pan) take it out, dredge in the flour, brown it nicely in the butter, then pour in a little water, and season with pepper and salt to taste. Replace the liver in the stewpan, add the carrots cut into thin slices, and let the whole simmer gently for one hour and a half. Serve very hot. A little Worcestershire sauce improves thq dish.G5 MEATS. Croutons aux Rognons. Ingredients—2 veal kidneys ; a little butter; salt; 2 minced onions ; a spoonful of flour ; a little broth ; 5 eggs ; some finely minced parsley ; a little grated nutmeg ; some slices of French roll ; milk ; oil or clarified butter. Method.—Cut the kidneys into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, salt, and onions ; let them stew till they are quite tender. Meanwhile, put into another saucepan a piece of butter, a spoonful of flour, and a small quantity of broth. Reduce it till it is thick ; then put in the kidneys, four whole eggs, some finely minced parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir well together over the fire for a few minutes, and let it get cold. Cut some slices of French roll of the day before’s baking, dip them in milk in which you have beaten up an egg, and spread the mince on them thickly. Fry them in hot lard or clarified butter, and serve very hot. Cutlets & la Rachel. Ingredients. — Veal cutlet ; a little butter ; p&te de foie gras forcemeat ; mushrooms ; some mixed vegetables boiled and cut into fancy shapes. Method.—Take the veal (the quantity required) and cut it into neat little rounds ; trim each care- fully, and flatten with a broad- bladed knife. Fry gently in the butter till sufficiently cooked, then cover with the above stuffing. Lay a round piece of mushroom in the centre of each cutlet; wrap each cutlet separately in pig’s caul, previously soaked in water till white and dried, and, when the cutlets are wanted, make them hot in the oven; place the vege- tables in the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve. Breast of Veal Stewed. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, about 3 lb. ; butter and flour; onions ; some good hot stock; lemon-peel; mace ; pepper and salt; 1 or 2 whole onions ; 1 or 2 whole shalots ; 1 stick of celery; 1 turnip, quartered; 2 carrots, cut into lengths ; a few green peas; a sprig of parsley and marjoram. Method.—Cut the veal into con- venient pieces for helping at table; make a thickening of butter and flour ; brown in it some onions sliced, and the pieces of veal ; moisten with hot stock (adding it gradually), and season with lemon-peel, mace, pepper and salt. When, the meat is about half ccoked, put in the remainder of the ingredients, and simmer the whole gently until perfectly tender. The vegetables must be well covered with the stock. When done, place the meat in the centre of a large dish, and arrange the vegetables neatly round it, having previously removed the lemon- peel and herbs ; pour sufficient gravy (thickened if required) over all, and serve. Knuckle of veal may be stewed in exactly the same way, or, if preferred, with half a pound of rice, one or two onions, and a little mace and salt. Roast Fillet of Veal. Ingredients. — Fillet of veal; stuffing (see ‘FoPwCEMEAT,’ etc.); melted butter. Method.—Take out the bone ; 5MEATS. 66 fill up the vacancy with veal stuf- fing ; bind the veal in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and tape. Roast before the fire, or bake in the oven. (See directions for ‘ Roasting’ and ‘Bak- ing.’) If roasted, serve with melted butter poured over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. If baked, place the veal on a hot dish, pour away some of the fat in the meat tin, stir in some melted butter, boil up over the fire, and serve in a tureen. Boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork should always accompany roast veal. Melton Veal. Ingredients. — 3 lb. raw veal; 1-| lb. ham ; 6 hard-boiled eggs ; 1 oz. of butter ; parsley. Method.—Cut the veal and ham into small pieces ; cut the eggs into slices. Lay some of the slices in a deep brown pan or pudding-dish; shake in a little minced parsley; lay on this some of the veal and ham, with pepper and salt. Continue this till all the ingredients are used. Then add sufficient water to cover the whole ; mince the butter, and lay it on the top. Tie a buttered paper over the pan, and bake one hour or longer. Remove paper, press the mixture down with a spoon, lay on a plate with a weight over it. Let it remain another hour in the oven ; turn out on a dish when quite cold. Veal Pie. Ingredients. — The middle, or scrag, of a small neck of veal; pepper and salt; a few slices of ham or bacon ; some hard-boiled yolks of eggs; a little minced parsley and green onions; 2 spoon- fuls of veal stock ; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Cut the veal into nice pieces, and season with pepper and salt. Lay in the bottom of a pie- dish some slices of ham and bacon; then add the veal, the hard-boiled yolks, the minced parsley and onions, and last of all the stock. Cover with puff-paste and bake for about an hour and a half. The oven should be quick at first, to raise and cook the pastry; the heat should then be moderated. To prevent the crust becoming too brown put a piece of greased paper over it. Rolled Veal. Ingredients.—3 lb. of the breast of veal; 2 cz. of bacon, minced ; 1 slice of bread, grated; a little minced parsley; flour, butter, pepper, and salt; 1 egg ; 1 break- fast-cupful of water. Method. — Remove the bones from the veal. Make a stuffing of the bacon, bread-crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and egg, mixing all well together; spread it over the veal, which must then be rolled up tightly and bound firmly with tape. Make some butter very hot in a stewpan, put in the veal pre- viously rubbed over with flour, and when it is nicely browned all round add the cupful of water. Stew very gently for two hours. The bones can be added to enrich the gravy, or they can be used for soup. Shoulder of Veal. Remove the knuckles, and fill the space with stuffing, if desired ; roast or bake. (See directions.) If not stuffed, serve the veal with oyster or mushroom sauce, and garnish with sliced lemon.poultry anb (Same. Poultry, to be thoroughly acceptable, should be young and plump, without being too fat. Fowls and turkeys, at their best, have a clear skin, broad and well-developed breasts, smooth legs, and pliable toes. The same may be said of ducks and geese, which, when old, are red and hard, with the skin full of hairs and very coarse. For boiling, use white-legged fowls and chickens, which look very delicate when dressed ; the dark-legged ones are best for roasting. Pigeons should be cooked soon after being killed ; turkeys should be kept tolerably long before cooking ; whilst a goose, in winter, should hang some days before it is prepared for table. It is perhaps unnecessary to add that poultry should always be well done—not over-done, but done sufficiently. If a hare or a rabbit has been freshly killed, it will b& stiff, and, if it is young, the ears will tear easily, and the ctews be smooth and sharp. In cold weather, a hare will remain good for ten or fourteen days. In the case of pheasants, partridges, etc., you can tell, by opening the bill, whether they are stale or not. Game should never be very fresh when cooked, but, on the other hand, it is possible to let it get too ‘ high > before cooking it. It should be the object of the cook to find the happy medium. Curried Chicken. Ingredients. — 1 chicken ; some sliced onions ; butter ; some good brown gravy, or stock ; 1 dessert- spoonful of curry-powder ; 1 tea- spoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or milk ; salt. Method.—Cut up the fowl into neat joints, and brown them in a frying-pan with the sliced onions and butter. When half cooked, ut them in a stewpan with the rown gravy or stock, and stew gently until tender. Mix smooth the spoonful of curry-powder and flour with the butter and cream, and add it to the stew. Season with salt. Arrange the meat on a dish, and pour the gravy over it. Rabbits, etc., are also excellent, cooked in this way. Serve with boiled rice (which see). Pile the rice round the dish, and place the curry in the centre. To curry pheasants and partridges, substitute | two or three finely chopped apples ! for the onions, add the chopped | heart of a cabbage, one pickled | capsicum minced fine, and the uice of one lemon. Chicken Scallop. Ingredients.—1 old, tough fowl ; 1 gallon of cold water; pepper ; salt; parsley (chopped) ; 2 table- spoonfuls of butter ; 1 tablespoon- ful of flour ; 1 egg ; some bread- crumbs. 6-268 POULTRY AND GAME. Method. — The day before the fowl is wanted, cut it up into joints. Then put it in a pan with the water, and let it come very slowly to a boil—say, in about an hour. After this, let it simmer gently for four or six hours, as the case may be, till tender. Then let it get cold in the broth, and save the latter for soup. Next day, cut the flesh of the chicken from the bones, which can be added to the broth. Then cut the meat into inch-lengths about half an inch wide. Take a cupful of broth, strain, and place in a pan on the fire. When it is heated, season with pepper, salt, and parsley; stir in a tablespoonful of butter, rolled in the flour ; boil well ; pour the broth upon the egg (beaten) in a bowl; and then add the pieces of chicken. Next, cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with the crumbs ; put in the gravy and meat; cover these again with crumbs ; divide the remainder of the butter into small lots, and drop on to the top. Cover the dish, and let the mixture bake to a nice brown. Then send the dish to table. Boiled Buck. (An old-fashioned Welsh Dish.) Ingredients.—Ducks (salted); cold water ; some large onions ; milk ; pepper ; parsley and butter. (See ‘Sauces.’) Method. — Salt the ducks from twenty-four to forty-eight hours ; the warmer the weather the fewer the hours required for salting. Put the ducks on in cold water, and when they come to the boil, skim. Boil gently for twenty minutes or longer, until tender. Have ready the onions twice boiled, and mashed with a little milk and pepper ; serve this in a tureen ; and pour over the ducks, when dished, some parsley and butter. If preferred, the ducks may be covered with the onion sauce. Goose, which requires rather longer salting, may be cooked in the same way. Thejr will both be found excellent and digestible. Duck Stewed with Green Peas. Ingredients.—1 duck ; butter ; a little flour ; some stock ; 1 quart of green peas; a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sage ; pepper and salt. Method.—Melt a good lump of butter in a stewpan over the-fire ; put in the duck (previously trussed) and brown it nicely all round ; then take it out and lay it on a dish. Put into the stewpan about a dessert-spoonful of flour, brown it, then add very gradually some good stock ; stir till smooth, and replace the duck. Add the peas, parsley, thyme and sage ; season to taste, and stew very gently for two hours or longer, until the duck is tender. To serve, place the duck on a dish with the peas round it. Boiled Fowls. Proceed according to directions for ‘ Boiled Turkey.’ Simmer gently from twenty minutes to about an hour, according to the age and size of the fowls. Serve with boiled ham or ox-tongue, parsley and butter, or oyster sauce. Grilled Fowl. Ingredients. — Remains of cold fowl; pepper and salt; juice of half a lemon; clarified butter; bread-crumbs; a little grated lemon- peel. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces ; season them with pepper and salt; squeeze over them the69 POULTRY AND GAME. lemon-juice, and let them stand for half an hour, or longer ; wipe them dry ; dip them into clarified butter, and then into bread-crumbs mixed with a little lemon-peel, grated. Place on a gridiron and broil over a dear fire. When fried, instead of broiled, use the yolk of an egg well beaten, instead of clarified butter. Fowl Pillau. Ingredients. — A nice fowl; 2 quarts of stock ; 1 lb. of best rice ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs ; 8 slices of bacon ; 4 onions ; | oz. of coriander- seed ; J oz. of cloves ; £ oz. of all- spice ; J oz. of mace ; J oz. of cinnamon ; \ oz. of peppercorns ; a few cardamom-seeds. Method.—Well wash the rice, and having put the butter into a frying- pan, turn the rice into it, and brown nicely. Prepare the fowl for boil- ing, and put it into a pan with the stock, adding the spices, which should be first pounded, and then tied up in a muslin bag. Boil the fowl till almost done, add the rice, and leave it to stew till quite tender. Fry the onions nicely, grill the bacon, and boil the eggs hard. Then put the fowl on a dish, pile the rice over it, and range round it the onions, bacon, and eggs cut into slices. Serve hot, but keep back the spices when turning out the rice. Roast Fowls. Ingredients— Fowl for roasting ; butter. Method.—Pick the fowl and draw it, being careful not to break the gall-bag. It should not be washed, if properly drawn, but wiped with a dry cloth. Next singe the fowl, and press the breast-bone down. The legs should be broken at the middle of the first joint, then re- move the sinews, and cut ofi' the parts round the beak. Put the liver in one pinion, and the gizzard in the other, turning the points on the back. Skewer closely the first joint of the pinion and the middle of the leg to the body. Do this on each side. A third skewer must be run through the small of the leg and the sidesman ; and a fourth must do the same on the other side. Then cut off the head close to the body, leaving some of the skin, which should be tied on the back. Hang the fowl before the fire, neck downwards, and baste several times with butter. Boast from half an hour to an hour, according to size. Serve with gravy sauce, or melted butter, after having removed all the skewers and strings. The fowl may be stuffed with fowl or turkey stuffing. (See 1 Force- meat,’ etc.) Place on the dish breast upwards. Giblet Pis. Ingredients. — The giblets of 1 goose or 2 ducks ; 1 lb. of tender beef-steak ; 2 onions ; a little thyme and parsley tied together ; pepper and salt; some light suet paste ; water. Method.—Put the giblets, having previously washed them, into a stew pan with the steak, cut into small pieces; add sufficient cold water to cover, and as soon as the water begins to simmer, put in the onions, cut into thin slices, and the herbs. Stew the whole gently for about two hours, then remove the herbs, and let the giblets get cold. Line the sides of a pie-dish with the suet paste, and lay in the giblets and pieces of steak, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt, and70 POULTRY AND GAME. pouring over the meat enough of the gravy in which it has been stewed to fill the dish about three- parts full. Cover with crust, and hake for about one hour in a hot oven. Roast Goose. Ingredients.—1 goose ; sage-and- onion stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat, etc.’) ; some good gravy. Method.—Having picked, drawn, and trussed the goose for roasting, carefully remove, by singeing, any long hairs that may remain on the bird. Well wipe the inside, and fill it with the above stuffing; fasten it securely at both ends by drawing the rump through a hole made in the skin, and tying a string round the stem of the neck, which has previously been cut off close to the body. Hang it before a hot, clear fire, and roast from one hour and a half to two hours, basting continually. Send to table as hot as possible, with a tureen of strong beef gravy and another of apple- sauce. Mashed turnips should always accompany roast goose or roast duck, as they tend to correct the strong flavour of these birds. Ducks may be stuffed and roasted in the same way. Roast Grouse. Ingredients.—Grouse ; a few slices of bacon ; vine-leaves ; butter. Method.— Having prepared the grouse, like fowl, for roasting, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and as many vine-leaves, which tie on with coarse thread. Roast them before a nice clear fire for half an hour or forty minutes, basting con- stantly with butter. Serve with gravy, bread-sauce, and browned crumbs. If preferred, they may be placed on toasted bread, and melted butter poured over them. Jugged Hare. Ingredients.—1 hare; 1 lb. beef- steak; lb. of butter, or good beef- dripping ; 2 onions ; 1 lemon ; \ pint of port wine ; 8 cloves ; 6 whole allspice; pepper and salt; a little cayenne; forcemeat balls (see ‘ Forcemeat ’ etc.); bunch of sweet herbs. Method—Paunch, wash and cut up the hare into pieces, dredge them with flour, and fry in butter or dripping. Put them into a stewpan with the beef, herbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, salt, and the lemon peeled and cut in two ; cover with hot water, and when it boils care- fully remove the scum; let it sim- mer gently until quite tender,which will be in about three hours. Take out the hare, beef, and forcemeat balls (added ^ hour previously) ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, pour in the port wine, and let the whole simmer for fif- teen minutes ; then strain, and add to the hare, etc. ; serve with red- currant jelly. Hashed Hare. Ingredients.— Remains of cold hare and stuffing ; pint of good beef-gravy; forcemeat-balls. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method.—Put the ^ pint of gravy into a stewpan until it boils. Then add the cold hare and stuffing ; cover closely, and keep to boiling- point. Do not let it boil. Make the forcemeat into balls; fry brown in a pan of lard. The liver, if fresh enough, may be boiled for five minutes, minced, and added to the forcemeat. When the hare is quite hot, garnish it with the force- meat-balls, Add a spoonful of71 POULTRY AND GAME. good sauce to the gravy, and pour it over the hare. Serve with red-currant jelly. Hare Pie. Ingredients.—1 hare ; 2 or 3 onions ; 1 carrot ; 1 bay-leaf ; 2 glasses of port wine ; pepper and salt; puff-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Cut the hare in neat pieces; put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover it, the onions and carrot sliced, and the bay-leaf ; stew it till tender ; then place it in a pie-dish, with its own liquor strained, and the two glasses of port wine; season with pepper and salt ; cover with puff-paste and bake about an hour, in an oven that is not very hot. Roast Hare. Ingredients.—1 fine hare; some good veal stuffing (see ‘ Force- meat,’ etc.); salt and water; milk; butter; brown gravy. Method. — After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; fill the belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoul- ders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, baste it for a few minutes with strong salt and water ; then put a fresh drip- ping-pan under it, and baste it well with milk and butter. Just before it is done, dredge over a little flour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. When cooked, take it up on a hot dish, re- move the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. A little red- currant jelly may be melted in the gravy if desired. The hare will take from one hour and a half to two hours to cook. It should be well done. Roast Larks. Ingredients.—Larks; pepper and salt ; egg ; bread-crumbs, finely grated ; fresh butter. Method.—Pick, clean, and truss the birds for roasting; season them inside with pepper and salt; dip them in egg and finely grated bread-crumbs, and set them to roast before a bright fire ; baste constantly with fresh butter, to keep them from burning. A quar- ter of an hour should cook them. Serve on crisp bread-crumbs fried in clarified butter. Larks may be roasted without egg and bread- crumbs if desired. They are also excellent broiled over a clear fire. Dressed Partridge. Ingredients.—1 cold partridge ; egg; bread-crumbs; butter; pepper and salt; cayenne ; lemon-juice ; fried bread-crumbs. Method.—Cut up the partridge into neat joints; dip the pieces in egg and finely grated bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire in a little butter; add seasoning to taste ; a very little cayenne, and some lemon-juice. Serve on a thick layer of nicely fried bread- crumbs. Roast Pheasant. Proceed according to directions for roast fowls. Serve with brown gravy and bread-sauce. Pigeon Pie. Ingredients,—A good beef-steak;POULTRY AND GAME. 72 6 young pigeons ; the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs ; £ oz. of mixed salt and pepper; a* sprinkle of minced parsley ; a very little cay- enne pepper ; 1 wine-glassful of veal stock ; puff-paste. (See * Pastry.’) Method.—Put the beef-steak (not cut too thick) in the bottom of a pie-dish; truss and prepare the pigeons, arrange them in the dish, and between each pigeon place one of the hard - boiled yolks ; season with the salt, pepper, pars- ley, and cayenne ; add the veal- stock, cover with puff-paste and bake one hour. Roast Pigeons. Ingredients. — Some pigeons ; a few slices of bacon ; butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Truss the pigeons for roasting, having previously washed and cleaned them thoroughly. Season them inside with pepper and salt; tie some slices of bacon round them, and roast before a clear fire for about half an hour, basting constantly with butter. Serve with gravy and bread-sauce, or sauce piquante. (See ‘ Sauces.’) If the pigeons are to be eaten cold the dish should be garnished with watercresses,nasturtiums and borage flowers, and the heart- leaves of cabbage lettuces. Salad mixture should also be served with them. Baked Rabbit. Ingredients.—1 young rabbit; 2 onions sliced ; 5 cloves ; flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the rabbit tho- roughly, cut it into small pieces and place it in a stew-pot, along with the cloves, onions, and about pint of water. Cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours. Make a thickening of flour and water, mixing with it the seasoning, and add it to the gravy jjr hour before dishing. Boiled Rabbits. Ingredients. — 2 young rabbits ; 1 or 2 slices of bacon; veal stuffing (see ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) ; 1 stick of celery ; 2 or 3 turnips, sliced ; 2 or 3 carrots, sliced ; 6 onions ; pepper and salt; a little cream, or milk. Method.—Clean the rabbits well, and truss them as for roasting (removing the eyes). Leave the kidneys in their natural place; put the liver and heart inside the belly with the slices of bacon (if liked), and fill up the remainder of the cavity with veal stuffing; sew up the opening with needle and thread. Put the rabbits thus prepared into a stewpan, with plenty of cold water ; let them come to the boil over a moderate fire, then add the celery, cut small, and other vege- tables. When boiling again, skim, then simmer gently by the side of the fire until all is cooked enough —about an hour altogether. Take out the onions, put them into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and with a wooden spoon mash them smooth with a little cream or milk. Heat thoroughly in a saucepan, previously rinsed with a little of the gravy to prevent burning. Place the rabbits side by side on a dish, with the head of one against the tail of the other, and pour the mashed onions over them. It is an improvement to boil a small piece of bacon with the rabbits. Serve the bacon on a separate dish with the turnips and carrots round it.POULTRY AND GAME. Babbit Pie. Ingredients. — 1 young tender rabbit ; a few slices of bacon ; some minced onions, if liked; a blade of powdered mace ; salt and white pepper to taste; \ pint of stock, or water ; puif-paste. (See ‘ Pastry.’) Method.—Empty, wash, and dry the rabbit; cut it into neat joints, season them with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and lay them al- ternately with the bacon and onion in a deep dish. Pour in the stock or water, put a plate on the top, and let the rabbit cook for half an hour in a moderate oven. When cool, cover it with pastry, ornament nicely, and cut a hole in the centre to allow the steam to escape. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake for about an hour and a quarter. Should the crust get brown too quickly, place a piece of paper over it. Serve either hot or cold. The onion may be omitted, and a few forcemeat - balls and hard-boiled eggs may be added instead. Pork can also be substituted for the bacon, if preferred. Stewed Babbit. (Plain.) Ingredients.—1 young rabbit; 2 onions; a little flour, butter, pepper and salt. Method.—Empty the rabbit, wash it well in tepid water, dry it tho- roughly, and cut it up into small joints. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it gets very hot put the onions into it (sliced very thinly), and fry them a nice pale brown. Next add the pieces of rabbit, floured and seasoned, and brown them also on both sides. Cover with boiling water, and stew very gently for two hours and a half. A teaspoonful of curry can be stirred into the gravy, if liked. Serve with boiled rice (which see). Stev/ed Babbit, with Stuffing. (German Recipe.) Ingredients. — 1 young rabbit ; some veal stuffing (see ‘Force- meat,’ etc.) ; 3 rashers of fat bacon; new milk; pepper and salt ; some sliced lemon. Method.—Clean the rabbit tho- roughly, fill it with stuffing, tie the rashers of bacon over it, truss it firmly, and roast before a nice clear fire till lightly browned. Then take it up, put it into a large stewpan, pour over it the contents of the dripping-tin, enough new milk to cover it, and season slightly with pepper and salt. Simmer the whole gently for one hour or longer, until the rabbit is quite tender. Keep the saucepan closely covered. When done, serve on a hot dish garnished with sliced lemon. Pour a little of the gravy over the rabbit, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. Boiled Turkey. Ingredients.—1 hen turkey of moderate size; some good stuffing. (See ‘ Forcemeat,’ etc.) Method.—Having prepared and trussed the turkey for boiling, and stuffed the breast with some good forcemeat, wrap the turkey in a clean cloth, put it into hot water (rather more than what will cover it), bring it slowly to the boil, skim carefully, then simmer gently from one hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to the age of the bird. When quite tender, serve on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, or parsley and butter. Pour a smallPOULTRY AND GAME. 74 quantity of either over it, and send the other to table in a tureen separately. Oyster sauce and bread sauce may be substituted for the above sauces, if preferred. To Broil the Legs of a Turkey. Ingredients.—The legs of a cold roast turkey ; pepper and salt ; cayenne ; lemon-juice ; butter. Method.—Take the legs from a cold roast turkey, and score them across with a sharp knife ; season them with pepper and salt and a pinch of cayenne, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. Place them in a Dutch oven before the fire, watch carefully that they do not burn, turn them occasion- ally, and rub a little fresh butter over them when they begin to smoke. When nicely browned, serve on a hot dish with a piece of butter on the top of each. If preferred, the legs may be dressed on the gridiron, but the above method will be found the more satisfactory. Hashed Turkey. Ingredients.—Remains of cold turkey and stuffing ; flour; pepper and salt; butter ; some sliced onions ; 1 pint of broth ; 1 dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; 1 dessert-spoonful of pickled walnut vinegar ; a little grated nutmeg ; a pinch of cayenne (if liked). Method.—Cut the remains of the cold turkey into small pieces, roll them in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Melt a little butter in a stewpan over the fire, and half fry in it the sliced onions. Add a little flour, brown it, then stir in by degrees the broth. Put in the pieces of turkey and stuff- ing, cover closely, and simmer gently for one hour. Arrange the meat neatly on a hot dish ; add to the sauce in the stewpan the re- maining ingredients, boil, stir well, and pour vover the turkey. The dish may be garnished with sippets of toast, slices of lemon, and, if necessary, forcemeat-balls. Roast Turkey. Ingredients. — 1 turkey ; some good stuffing (see ‘Forcemeat,’ etc.) ; butter ; flour. Method.—If the turkey has not been regularly trussed and pre- pared by the poulterer, the bird must be plucked, drawn, singed, and the hard tendons of the thigh removed by breaking the legs below the knee, and pulling them out by dint of sheer force. One way of doing this is to half open a door, put the foot between the door and the jamb above the upper hinge, close the door as far as the leg of the turkey will admit, and then pull till the tendons come out. Then truss the bird, putting the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other ; wash and dry it thoroughly inside, and fill the breast with stuffing. Fasten a buttered paper over the breast with small skewers, and set the bird at some distance from the fire, which should be a hot and clear one. Roast from one hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to the size. Baste con- stantly with butter, and when it (the turkey) is nearly done, re- move the paper, sprinkle lightly with flour, and baste well, moving the bird a little nearer the fire that it may become nicely browned and well frothed on the surface. Serve with good brown gravy and bread sauce ; and garnish the dish with small fried sausages or forcemeat- balls.Go TUse TIlp Col£» flDeat, etc. Cold meat is undoubtedly most wholesome when it remains cold, and is not re-cooked ; and, moreover, it can, with a little trouble, be made to look very appetizing. Very much depends upon the way in which it is sent up to table—the manner in which it is garnished, and so on. Cut up, and laid neatly on a dish, with a few sprigs of parsley, or, still better, of lettuce, placed round it, it has an attractive appearance even in the eyes of those most difficult to please. With cold meat, salad or pickles can be taken with advantage ; and of course there is plenty of room for variety of vegetables. However, it may be admitted that cold meat cannot be eaten day after day, and it is often desirable, therefore, to re-cook it, in the various styles indicated in the following recipes. In all of these forms it is very agreeable, if not always very digestible. One thing is certain, cold meat and scraps ought not to be wasted ; and, if they are not used by the family, they should be carefully kept, and given at intervals to poor deserving persons. Bubble and Squeak. Ingredients.—Cold meat ; any cold vegetables ; pickled cucumber and onion ; butter; flour; mustard; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat into slices and fry in butter, seasoning well, and keep them hot. Then put into the pan cold cabbage, cabbage and potato mixed, or other vegetables; season, and fry a nice brown. Make a little melted butter, either with milk or water; stir in a few chopped slices of cu- cumber and onion, and season with mustard, pepper and salt. Put the slices of meat in the centre of a dish, lay the vegetables round it, and serve with the sauce. Calf’s Head & la Pculette. Ingredients.—Remains of cold calf’s head; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 small dessert-spoonful of flour ; savoury herbs, if liked; 1 pint of good stock ; salt and pepper; the beaten yolks of 2 eggs; 2 or 3 drops of vinegar. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan over the fire, stir in the flour with a wooden spoon, add at once (as the butter must not be allowed to get brown) the herbs, chopped fine, and the stock ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and sim- mer gently, uncovered, for fifteen minutes. Put in the pieces of head, warm thoroughly through, but do not allow them to boil, then placeTO USE UP GOLD MEAT, ETC. 76 on a liot dish. Next stir into the beaten yolks the lemon-juice or vinegar ; take the sauce oft the fire; let it stand for a minute or two ; add the egg; stir gently; pour over the meat, and serve. Irish Stew; Ingredients. —Potatoes; remains of cooked beef or mutton; 1 or 2 onions ; pepper ; salt; water. Method.—Proceed according to directions for Irish Stew under ‘Meat’ (which see). Simmer gently till the potatoes are quite soft. Slices of sausage, ham, tongue, etc., can be put in with the meat, and helps to make the dish tasty. The onions may be omitted. Miroton de Bosuf. Ingredients.—2 onions; a little butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; ^ pint of stock ; 1 teaspoonful of white wine; a little salt and pepper; half a bay-leaf; some thin slices of cold beef ; a few drops of vinegar. Method.—Melt a little butter in a stewpan, add the onions, chopped fine, shake over the fire for a few minutes, then dredge in the flour ; next add the stock, the white wine, a little salt, half a bay-leaf, and a sprinkle of pepper, and boil for ten minutes. Have ready the beef cut in thin slices, put them into the stewpan, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; take out the bay- leaf, pour in a few drops of vinegar, and serve. Beef Roll. Ingredients.—1^ lb. cooked beef ; \ lb. cooked ham ; \ lb. bread- crumbs (finely grated) ; 1 small onion (parboiled) ; 1 cupful of gravy; 1 egg ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mince the meat and ham very finely, taking care that there are no hard or sinewy pieces amongst the former. Add the bread- crumbs, the onion chopped very small, the gravy, and the seasoning. Bind together with the egg, make into a long roll, and either bake in a moderate oven for an hour or fry in good beef-dripping. Scalloped Beef. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 cupful of minced beef,boiled or roast, corned or fresh; ^ cupful of soup or gravy ; 1 cup- ful of cold mashed potatoes ; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; £ cupful of milk ; 1 beaten egg ; J teaspoon- ful made mustard ; pepper and salt; handful of fine crumbs. Method.—Put the mashed pota- toes, hot, into a bowl, and whip light and powdery with a fork. Beat in gradually the butter, the milk, and finally, with your egg-beater, the whipped egg. Salt to taste, and whip to a smooth cream. Season the minced meat highly, moisten with gravy, work in the mustard, and put into a greased pie-dish when ready. Spread the prepared po- tato over all smoothly, sift fine crumbs on the surface, and set in a quick oven until nicely browned. Shepherd’s Pie. Ingredients.—Remains of cold beef or mutton ; 1 small onion (if liked) ; a little gravy ; 1 teaspoon- ful of mushroom ketchup ; pepper and salt to taste; mashed potatoes. Method.—Cut the meat into very small pieces, and put it, and the onion, minced very finely, into a deep pie-dish; add the seasoning, ketchup, and gravy, then fill the dish high up with mashed potatoes, which must be nicely smoothed onTO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 77 the top with a spoon, and striped with the prongs of a fork. Bake till brown in a moderate oven. Three-quarters of an hour should be sufficient to bake it. Curried Meat. Ingredients.—Some slices of cold meat; a little butter; 1 or 2 onions; 1 dessert-spoonful of flour ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of curry-powder; salt; \ pint of gravy ; boiled rice. Method — Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry in it the meat and onions, sliced; when nicely browned, take out the meat and add the curry-powder and flour mixed smooth in the gravy : stir well over the fire for about ten minutes, then replace the meat, and season with salt. When the meat is thoroughly warmed through (the gravy must not be allowed to boil after the meat is put in) place it on a dish with a border of rice round it, and pour the gravy over it. A small quantity of cocoanut-milk or fried apple will be found an im- provement. Fried Meat Cakes. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast beef, mutton, veal, etc. ; pepper and salt; a little chopped parsley; cold mashed potatoes ; 1 egg- Method.—Chop the meat finely; add pepper, salt, and parsley, mix well with the cold potatoes, and bind all together with the egg. Form into little round or oval cakes, and fry a delicate brown in good beef-dripping or butter; drain on kitchen paper, and serve hot with good brown gravy in a tureen. Hashed Meat. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold meat; 2 Spanish onions; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 tablespoonful of ketchup ; 1 turnip ; 2 carrots ; 1 oz. butter or lard; seasoning; 1 pint of stock. Method. — Cut the turnip and carrots into small pieces, and boil till soft in a little water. Put the butter into a stewpan and let the sliced onions brown in it. Slice the meat, flour the pieces on both sides, and brown them in the butter with the onions. Add the stock and the ketchup, and stir together until the stock boils, when season- ing to taste should be added. Care- fully strain the water from the carrots and turnip,and serve on the same dish as the hashed meat. If preferred, they may be put in with the meat whiie the stock is boiling. Meat Jelly. Ingredients.—Some cooked chick- en or beef; 1 pint of good, clear stock ; 1 sixpenny packet of gela- tine ; 2 hard-boiled eggs; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat and eggs into small pieces, season well, and arrange in a mould. Pour over this the stock in which the gelatine has been dissolved. Cook in a mode- rate oven for half an hour. When quite cold, turn out on a dish gar- nished with parsley. Minced Meat. Ingredients.—Some cooked meat (any kind) ; pepper and salt; a little gravy; mashed potatoes (or boiled rice) ; fried bread. Method.—Mince the meat (say a little cold roast beef and boiled ham) very finely; season with pepper and salt to taste ; add suffi - cient gravy to moisten it well, and stir the whole over the fire until very hot, but do not let it boil. Make a wall of the mashed pota- toes round a dish, and pour theTO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 78 mince in the centre. Serve with croutons of fried bread (which see). Beef Olives. Ingredients.—Cold beef ; bread- crumbs, herbs, suet, and season- ing for forcemeat; 2 oz. butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; ketchup ; stock. Method.—Cut the beef into thin slices, season them, and spread over each a little forcemeat made from above ingredients ; then roll them up, tie with string, and stew gently in gravy. The gravy may be made from stock, thickened with butter rolled in flour, and a little ketchup to taste. Meat Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of any cold meat; ^ lb. of mashed potatoes ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoonful marjoram and thyme (mixed) ; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley ; a few browned bread-crumbs ; pepper ; salt, and a little butter. Method.—Mince the meat and put it into a basin ; mix with it the herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and po- tatoes ; stir well and add the egg (not beaten) ; turn into a well- buttered basin lined with the bread- crumbs, tie a buttered paper over the top, and steam for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve with brown gravy. A little onion, chopped fine, may be added, if liked. Meat Rissoles. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cold meat; £ lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 tablespoonful mixed herbs ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt; 1 pint of gravy. Method.—Chop the meat finely, put it in a large basin, add the bread-crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and mix well together. Beat the egg, and with it moisten the other ingredients. Take from this mix- ture a small portion and roll gently in the hands into a ball about six inches in diameter, place each ball as made on a dish, and when all are ready, fry carefully (in butter or lard) in a pan. Turn the balls so that they may brown on all sides, and, when done, arrange in a hot dish. Pour over them 1 pint of gravy, which, if no stock be at hand, may be made as follows: Put into a basin 1 dessert-spoon- ful of flour, and season with pepper and salt ; moisten with a little water, and stir till quite smooth. To this add 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup (or, if preferred, 1 of ketchup and 1 of any table sauce), and enough water to make a pint of liquid altogether. Turn this gravy into a frying-pan, in which a small piece of butter has been melted, and stir slowly till the gravy thickens. Cold Meat Shape. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cooked meat ; pepper and salt; 2 oz. of macaroni ; 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs ; a little butter ; 2 dessert- spoonfuls of stock ; 1 egg. Method.—Chop the meat, beef, mutton, or veal very finely, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a basin. Have ready the ma- caroni, previously well washed , and boiled for half an hour. Drain it thoroughly, cut it into small pieces, and mix it with the meat, adding also the bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Lastly, bind the whole together with the spoonful of stock and the egg ; stir well, then put it, pressing it down with a spoon, into a well-buttered basin,TO USE UP COLD MEAT, ETC. 79 and steam for one hour. When done, turn out on a dish, and serve. Potato Puff. Ingredients.—Some cold roast beef or mutton, or some veal or ham ; pepper and salt; pickles ; some mashed potatoes; 1 egg; flour. Method.—Free the meat from all gristle and hard bits ; cut it up small ; mix with it a few chopped pickles, if liked, and season with pepper and salt. Boil the potatoes, and mash them very smoothly with a fork or spoon ; make them into a paste with the egg, and roll out, dredging with flour. Cut into rounds the size of a saucer, place the meat upon one half, and fold the other over like a puff; pinch neatly round, and fry a light brown in boiling fat. Veal Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cold under- done veal; the grated rind of 1 lemon ; pepper and salt ; a little nutmeg; 1 gill of second stock; 1 gill of milk; some bread-crumbs; a little butter. Method. — Mince the veal very finely; and season it with the lemon- rind, a little nutmeg, and the pepper and salt. Put it in a stewpan over the fire; add the stock and milk, and stir the whole until it boils. Let it simmer gently for ten minutes, then pour into a pie-dish, cover with bread-crumbs, lay a few pieces of butter on the top, and brown quickly before the fire or in a hot oven. Stale Bread. Crusts or scraps of stale bread may be made into puddings, or dried and powdered for crumbs. Keep the bits (until required for use) in a clean pan or tin box kept for the purpose. Cheese Scraps. Crusts and scraps of cheese may be grated and used for puddings, sandwiches, Welsh rare-bit, etc. Grated cheese mixed with mashed potatoes makes an excellent pud- ding ; it is good also mixed with porridge. Dripping. If clarified (see ‘ To Clarify Dripping’) it can be used for making pastry, cakes, etc. Pieces of Fat. (Cooked or uncooked.) These rendered down (see ‘ To Clarify Fat’) may be used for frying, pastry, etc. Meat Liquor. The liquor in which meat has been boiled can be used (when not too salt) to make lentil and other vegetable soups. Meat Scraps. These (if there are sufficient) can be pounded in a mortar and potted, or may be made into a potato pie, etc. If not enough to re-cook, they can be put into the stock-pot. Bice Water; The water in which rice has been boiled need not be wasted. It can be used as stock for soup, or, flavoured with lemon and sugar, and iced, it makes a refreshing drink. Stock Skimmings. Can be used instead of butter for frying cutlets, steak, etc. Cold Vegetables. May be re - heated in various ways. (See ‘ Vegetables.’)Vegetables. Vegetables are a most valuable species of food, possessing qualities which are in themselves almost sufficient to sustain life. Even professed vegetarians are, however, careful to make use of butter, milk, cheese, and so on. All vegetables are purifiers of the blood, and, by assisting to dissolve other food, help to promote digestion. They are said, in the matter of digestibility, to be on a level with poultry. It is necessary, we may note, that they should be cooked as soon as possible after they are gathered ; in other words, they should be thoroughly fresh when cooked. ; When they have been cut some days, changes, less perceptible indeed, but not less real, than those which occur in animal food, take place, leading to derangement of digestion.’ Then, vegetables should always be boiled in plenty of water—all, that is, except peas—and by this means any unpleasantness of flavour is carried off. Where vegetables are known to be less digestible than others, a good plan is to parboil them, and having poured away the first water, to boil them again in a fresh supply. All greens (such as cabbages, etc.) are improved by being boiled with a little carbonate of soda ; soda should not, however, be used in the case of cauliflower and brocoli, which, by the way, require very careful boiling, or their appearance gets spoiled. The time for boiling vegetables depends, of course, upon their freshness and size. Potatoes, we may mention, should always be boiled in a saucepan specially devoted to them ; if the pan is used for other vegetables, they will become discoloured. Tomatoes are specially good for dyspepsia, and lentils are not only the most nourishing of all kinds of pulse, but are the most easily cooked and digested. Finally, serve vegetables directly they are done; they should not be allowed to remain in the water for a moment after they have once been boiled. Asparagus. Wash and trim the asparagus, scrape the stems very clean with a sharp knife, and throw them into cold water as they are done. When ready, tie into neat bunches, put them into boiling water with a little salt in it, and boil from twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the stalks are tender. Care must be taken not to boil it too long, or it will lose both its colour and flavour. Drain well, and ar- range neatly on a piece of toasted bread. If liked, melted butter may be served with it. A little vinegar, stirred into the sauce before serving.81 VEGETABLES. is by some persons considered an improvement. To Boil Broad Beans. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water; 1 tablespoonful of salt; beans. Method. — Shell the beans just before they are wanted, wash and drain them, and throw them into the boiling water, salted in the above proportion. Boil rapidly until perfectly tender (from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to their age). When quite done, pour them into a hot colander, drain well, and send quickly to table with parsley and butter, or plain melted butter, served sepa- rately in a tureen. Boiled bacon should always accompany this vegetable ; it may be dished over the beans. The younger the beans are the better. Trench Beans. Ingredients.—'To every 2 quarts of water allow I tablespoonful of salt: a very little carbonate of soda ; butter, pepper and salt. Method.—Wash the beans well, cut off the tops and stalks, remove the strings at each side, and cut the beans lengthways into delicate strips. Drop them into salt and water as they are done. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water with the salt and a little carbonate of soda in it; put in the beans, and boil quickly, with the lid off the saucepan, for fifteen minutes or longer, according to their age. Drain in a colander, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and shake them over the fire for a minute or two, then serve. French beans should only be eaten when young ; when old they are tough and indigestible. French Beans Stewed. Ingredients.—Some young French beans ; boiling water with plenty of salt in it; 3 spoonfuls of good broth ; a little cream ; a piece of butter rolled in flour ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the stalks off the beans and remove the fibres, shred them fine, and wash them in salt and water ; put them oil to boil in a good deal of water with plenty of salt in it, which preserves their greenness. When they are about half done, drain them, and put them into a stewpan with the broth, cream, butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt ; stew gently till quite tender, and serve hot. Haricot Beans. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of haricot beans ; 1^- pints of cold water; a very little dripping ; melted butter made with milk (or milk and water); a little salt; pepper ; 1 large spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Method.—Soak the beans over night; drain them from the water, and put them into a saucepan, with the above proportion of cold water, and a little dripping. Let them boil from three to four hours until quite tender. Then drain the n well, and place on a hot dish. Have ready the melted butter smoothly made, add to it a little salt, a sprinkle of pepper, and the finely chopped parsley ; stir the whole over the fire for a minute, then pour over the beans, and serve. If preferred, the beans can bo served without sauce, simply shaking them over the fire for a minute or | two with a little butter, pepper and I salt. GVEGETABLES. 82 Cold Brocoli, Peas, or Beans. Put them into a basin, which place in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; put on the lid, and steam till they are quite warmed through. Boiled Cabbage. Ingredients. — Cabbage ; boiling water ; 1 spoonful of salt; a pinch of carbonate of soda. Method. — Wash the cabbage thoroughly, removing all decayed leaves. Cut it across the stalk about two inches deep, and let it lie in salt and water for half an hour. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water containing the salt and soda, put the cabbage into it, and boil uncovered for ten minutes. Then pour off all the water, and refill the pot with fresh boiling water from the kettle ; add a little salt, and boil for another ten minutes, or longer if the cabbage is large. Drain in a colander, press the water well out of it with the back of a plate, place on a hot dish, and serve. Cabbage, if cooked in this way, will agree with the most delicate stomach. Dressed Cabbage. Ingredients.—1 nice cabbage ; a little butter ; pepper and salt; 2 large spoonfuls of milk; 1 egg, well beaten; some fine bread- crumbs. Method.—Boil the cabbage ac- cording to the directions in the preceding recipe. When quite tender drain all the water tho- roughly from it, let it cool a little, then chop it up finely ; add the butter, seasoning, milk and egg, and mix all well together with a fork. Pat the whole into a pudding-dish, cover lightly with bread-crumbs, and bake till brown in a moderate oven. This is excel- lent, and very digestible. Cold Carrots. Cut them in thin slices and put them into a basin with a little gravy or melted butter; cover closely, and place in the oven for a quarter of an hour. To Boil Cauliflowers. Trim off the outside leaves and let the cauliflowers lie in cold salted water for an hour ; this will draw out any insects that may be amongst them. Cut them into branches, throw them into boiling salted water, and let them boil from twenty to thirty minutes, until the stalks are tender. Lift them care- fully out of the saucepan, drain well in a colander, arrange neatly on a hot dish, and serve plain, or with some good melted butter. If the cauliflowers are boiled whole, place them flower downwards in the saucepan. Cauliflower au Gratin. Ingredients.—1 cauliflower ; 1 oz. butter ; 1 oz. flour ; 1 gill of milk ; a little salt and pepper ; 1 table- spoonful of bread-crumbs; a few drops of lemon-juice. Method.—Boil a cauliflower nicely (from fifteen to twenty minutes), and place it, when done, in a deep dish. Melt in a saucepan the butter, add immediately the flour, mix well together, pour in by degrees the milk, and stir until boiling ; when it boils, take it off the fire (it should be thick), and add lemon-juice, salt, and pepper. Pour this mixture over the cauliflower in spoonfuls, sprinkle over it the bread-crumbs, place in the oven, and bake a nicq brown.VEGETABLES. 83 How to Keep Celery Fresh. Celery can be kept fresh for a week or more if it is wrapped up, first in brown paper, and then in a towel, and laid in a cool, dark place. Before it is wanted for table, let it lie in cold water for an hour. This will make it crisp. Celery Salt. Save the root of the celery plant, dry and grate it, and mix with it one-third as much salt; keep in a bottle well corked, and it will be found delicious for soups, gravies, hashes, etc. Stewed Celery. Ingredients.—5 heads of celery; 1 oz. of flour; 1 oz. of butter; a little milk. Method.—Wash and trim the celery and stew it in the milk for about one hour and a half. When done, lift it out, put it on a hot vegetable-dish, and pour over the milk thickened with the flour and butter, and seasoned to taste. Dressed Cucumber. Ingredients. — Young cucumber (freshly gathered, if possible) ; salt; white pepper ; 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of pure salad oil; 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Method.—Pare the cucumber, cut it into very thin slices, commencing at the thick end, put them into a dish, sprinkle with salt, and when they have stood a few minutes, drain off the water; strew more salt over, dust with white pepper, and add the oil, turn the cucumber well in this, then pour on the vinegar. Put the whole into a clean dish, and serve. Cucumber dressed in this way may be eaten by most people without fear. Dressed with vinegar alone it is very indigestible. Lentil Porridge. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of lentil flour ; 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, or milk and water, and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the milk and water very gradually with the flour, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Milk or syrup may be taken with it. Vegetable Marrows. These can be cooked in several ways. (1) They can be boiled in the skin, and then pared, halved, and served upon toast. (2) They can be stewed tender in butter, and served in veal gravy, well-thick- ened, and flavoured with a little lemon-juice. (3) They can be boiled, quartered, freed from seed, left till cold, and then dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. (4) They can be boiled, cut into dice, and re-heated in a little white sauce. (5) They can be prepared according to the directions for mashed turnips, and in this form are excellent. A French mode is to boil the marrows tender in water, halve them lengthwise, chon off a piece at the end so as to make them stand up in the dish, and, having hollowed out the insides, fill them with white mince-meat, pouring white sauce round them. Marrows are best when about half a dozen inches long. The mode- rate sized should be boiled for twenty to thirty minutes; the large for forty-five to sixty minutes. Stewed Mushrooms. Ingredients. — A little flour, butter, pepper and salt, mush- rooms. G—284 VEGETABLES. Method.—Sprinkle a little flour over the bottom of a saucepan, add a little butter, pepper and salt, and melt all together ; lay in the mush- rooms, previously peeled, and stew for five minutes. Spanish Onions. Ingredients. — Spanish onions ; water; a little butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Peel the onions care- fully ; put them into a saucepan with water and plenty of salt, and boil for half an hour ; drain them well; place them in a stewpan with somo butter, pepper and salt, cover closely, and stew very gently for two or three hours, or longer, according to the size of the onions. Care must be taken that they do not cook too quickly ; and they must be basted occasionally with their own liquor. If preferred onions may be boiled in water (having been previously blanched), or stewed in milk or broth. Mashed Parsnips. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water ; 1 large spoonful of salt; parsnips ; butter ; milk or cream; pepper and salt. Method.—Wash and scrape the parsnips, put them into the sauce- pan of boiling salted water, and boil until perfectly tender (from one to two hours, according to size). Drain in a colander, press as dry as possible, then mash quite smooth with a wooden spoon. Add a small lump of butter, a spoonful of milk or cream, a sprinkle of pepper and salt, and stir all over the fire till very hot; pile high on a dish, and serve at once. If pre- ferred, the parsnips, after they are boiled, can be cut into slices and fried. Cold Parsnips. Mash them with milk, and a little butter, pepper and salt. To Boil Green Peas. Ingredients.—1 quart of fresh young peas; a little mint; salt ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter ; pepper. Method.—Have the peas freshly gathered if possible ; shell them, and roll them in a dry cloth, but do not wash them. Put them into a saucepan, with some salt and a sprig or two of mint, and pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover them. Boil, with the lid off the saucepan, for fifteen minutes; then drain them in a colander, put them back into the saucepan with the butter, add a little pepper, shake them over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. Old peas require half an hour to boil. To Stew Peas. Ingredients.—Some young peas ; a little butter ; a sprig of parsley, and one of mint, tied together*; 1 lump of sugar; a little stock; a pinch of flour. Method.—Put the peas, with the butter, parsley and mint (tied to- gether) and sugar, into a stewpan, and cover them up close. Stew them till they are soft; take out the mint and parsley; add the stock and pinch of flour; mix well together, bring to the boil, then serve. Peas Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of split peas ; butter ; pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the peas for several hours. Then tie them loosely in a cloth that they may have room to swell, and boil them, putting them on in cold water, forVEGETABLES. 83 about two hours and a half. At the end of that time, lift them out of the pot, untie the cloth, mash the peas with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, or rub them through a colander, stir in a good lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, and tie the pudding up tight in another cloth ; boil for one hour longer, turn on to a dish, and serve with boiled pork or bacon. The yolks of two eggs added to the pudding is an im- provement. To Boil Potatoes. Potatoes are beat when boiled in their skins ; when peeled they lose both their flavour and the salts which pass out into the water. They should all be of a size, whether large or small; scrub them very clean, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt, and sufficient warm water to cover them. Boil very gently until nearly tender, then pour off all the water; peel the potatoes, replace them in the saucepan, sprinkle with salt, cover with a cloth, and let them stand by the side of tue fire until perfectly tender and dry. Potatoes without their skins are cooked in the same way. The saucepan in which potatoes are boiled should never be used for any other purpose. To Boil New Potatoes. Choose potatoes of equal size, scrape and wash them well (when very young the skins may be rubbed off with a brush), put them into boiling water with a little salt in it, and, if liked, a small sprig of mint. Boil gently for twenty minutes, or longer, until tender; pour off all the water, cover them with a clean cloth, and let them stand for a few minutes by the side of the fire until thoroughly dry. Serve in a hot dish covered with a napkin. Some cooks add a little butter to the potatoes before dishing, but we do not think it is an improvement. Potato Chips. Ingredients.—Some raw potatoes; a little salt. Method.—Cut the potatoes into neat, round slices rather more than an inch thick, and then into thin spiral shavings, going round and round in the way you peel an apple ; throw these carefully into boiling lard or oil; fry them very crisp of a light brown, sprinkle some salt over, and serve as hot im possible. Potatoes Fried k la Frangaise, Ingredients.—6 nice round pota« toes; -§ gill of clarified butter; salt; some finely minced parsley. Method. — Peel the potatoes, which should not be too large, ana cut each potato into eight pieces, shaped like the quarter of an orange — rounding off the sharp edges with a knife. Place them in a frying-pan, pour over them the clarified butter, stir them about in this, then put the pan on the hottest part of the stove, and let the pota- toes slowly become brown, turning them over frequently with a spoon so that they may be all of the same colour—a delicate browfc.. Twenty minutes should do them. Brain on kitchen paper, pile them on a very hot dish, sprinkle salt over and a little minced parsley, pre- viously blanched, and serve imme- diately. Potatoes are excellent prepared in this way. Mashed Potatoes. Ingredients. — Potatoes; pepperVEGETABLES. 86 and salt; a little cream or butter, and boiling milk. Method.—The potatoes should first be thoroughly well boiled, then carefully remove all defects or hard bits; mash them very smooth with a wooden spoon, add- ing as much cream as will make them the right consistence, and season with pepper and salt; or, instead of cream, you may use butter and boiling milk, and they can be browned after they are dressed, in the dish they are to be served on, in the Dutch oven. To Roast Potatoes. Choose potatoes with a nice clear skin, and of an equal size, if pos- sible , put them into tepid water, and scrub them very clean. Place in a moderate oven (on the shelf) and bake from two hours to two hours and a half, turning fre- quently. Serve in a hot napkin. They are eaten with cold butter, pepper and salt. Savoury Potatoes. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; a little minced ham or tongue, a little butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt; a sprinkle of sweet herbs; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or cream. Method.—Scrub perfectly clean as many potatoes as are required, and boil them in their skins till quite soft. Then cut them in halves and carefully extract the floury part of the potato, which must be pressed smooth with a spoon. Mix all *he ingredients well together and fill the half-skins with the mixture. Place them before the fire or in the oven to warm through, and brown the tops with a salamander or hot shovel. Arrange a napkin in neat folds on a vegetable dish, stand the potatoes up on it, and garnish with parsley. Steamed Potatoes. Choose potatoes of equal size, peel them, put them into the steamer, sprinkle some salt over them, and steam until tender; about half an hour should cook them. Keep the water in the saucepan underneath boiling all the time. When ready, take the lid off the steamer, shake the potatoes, cover them with a cloth, let them stand for a minute or two to dry, then turn on to a hot dish. This is the simplest and best way of cooking potatoes. Cold Potatoes Baked. Ingredients.—To every pound of potatoes allow 3 dessert-spoonfuls of flour, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of onions, 1 oz. of buttermilk, pep- per and salt to taste. Method.—Mash the potatoes till perfectly smooth, stir well into them the flour, onions, and season- ing, then add sufficient milk to moisten the whole; press into a mould, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn out, and serve very hot. Cold Potatoes Fried. If whole, cut them in slices, sprinkle slightly with pepper and salt, and fry them a nice delicate brown in good beef-dripping or butter. Mashed potatoes are ex- ceedingly good fried just as they are, without fat of any kind ; they are more digestible done thus. Cold Boiled Potatoes Stewed. {American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 cupful of milk ; a small piece of soda not larger than a pea ; 1 oz. of butter; a little flour ; pepper and salt to taste.87 VEGETABLES. Method.—Put the milk and soda into a basin, which place in a sauce- pan of boiling water on the fire. As soon as the milk becomes hot, stir into it the butter (cut into small pieces and rubbed in flour) and the seasoning ; add the pota- toes, previously cut in thin slices ; cover the basin closely, and stew for ten or fifteen minutes. The white of an egg, whisked to a froth and stirred into the stew just before dishing, is an improvement. This dish is best prepared in the double-saucepan, if you have one. (See ‘ List of Utensils.’) To Boil Rice for Curry (1), Throw the rice, having first well washed it, into boiling water; there must be enough quite to cover it. Let it boil exactly sixteen minutes, but not too fast. When done suffi- ciently, and while still boiling, dash some cold water into the pot, and immediately remove it from the fire; throw the rice into a colander to drain ; cover it with a napkin, and when all the water has com- pletely drained from it, serve. N.B. The cold water has the effect of separating the grains of rice, but can be dispensed with by tossing the rice with a fork. Rice for Curry (2). Ingredients.—2 quarts of vrater; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; ■§ lb. of rice. Method.—Boil the water with the salt; then add the rice, well washed. Boil for about ten minutes till the grains become rather soft. Drain into a colander. Slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it. Let it swell slowly for twenty minutes, either near the fire or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell and be well separated, when it is ready to serve. Spinach. Pick the spinach carefully from the stalks, taking care that there are no weeds amongst it; then wash it thoroughly in several waters to free it from every par- ticle of grit. Take it out of the last water without draining it, and put it into a saucepan with a small spoonful of salt; keep shaking it, and pressing it down with a wooden spoon for about a quarter of an hour, or longer, until tender. Then drain off all the moisture, chop quickly, and serve immediately, with fried sippets of toast round the dish. If preferred, the spinach, after being drained, can be put into a stewpan with a little butter, milk, or cream, or as much rich gravy as will moisten it well; stew, ani stir over the fire until dry ; then press quickly into little shapes or a mould, turn out on a dish, and serve with, or without, eggs and toast. To Boil Brussels Sprouts. Ingredients.—To every 2 quarts of water allow 1 tablespoonful of salt; a little carbonate of soda (about a salt-spoonful; ; butter ; pepper. Method.—Cut off all decayed leaves from the sprouts ; wash them thoroughly ; allow them to lie in salt and water for an hour ; then throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, containing the soda and salt, and let them boil quickly, uncovered, for fifteen or twenty minutes, till they are ten- der. Drain them in a colander; put them back into the saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; shake them gently over the88 VEGETABLES. fire for a minute or two ; then serve in a very hot dish. Tomato Parci. Ingredients.—\ lb. tomatoes ; 1 oz. of butter; 4 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Place the tomatoes in a basin, with sufficient boiling water to cover them ; let them soak for a minute. Then remove the skins, and cut them (against the grain) in slices not too thin. Place in a flat dish half the butter, and sprinkle it with a few bread- crumbs. Then put over it a layer of tomatoes, with a little salt and pepper. Kepeat this process till the tomatoes and crumbs are exhausted, taking care that crumbs are at the top. Then add more pepper and salt, and lastly the remainder of the butter (in small pieces). Bake the whole for twenty minutes. Stewed Tomatoes. Ingredients.—Tomatoes ; pepper and salt; a good lump of butter; vinegar. Method.—Cut the tomatoes into thin slices, and put them into an enamel saucepan ; add seasoning to taste, and a good lump of butter broken into small pieces. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew gently from twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the tomatoes are perfectly tender. Then add the vinegar, two or three large spoon- fuls ; stir well, and serve with chops, broiled steak, or any kind of roast meat. They will be found exceedingly good cooked in this way. Mashed Turnips. Ingredients. — Some large tur- nips ; salt; butter; white pepper; a little cream or milk. Method.—Pare and quarter the turnips ; put them into boiling water with salt, and boil until per- fectly tender : about an hour and a quarter should cook them. Drain them in a colander, and press the water thoroughly out of them with the back of a large plate. Then rub them through the colander with a wooden spoon, place them in a clean saucepan, stir them over the fire for a few minutes to dry them ; then add a little salt if necessary, a lump of fresh butter, a little white pepper, and some cream or new milk ; and continue to simmer and stir the turnips for five or six minutes longer, until the butter is quite melted and well mixed with them. Serve very hot. Turnips Stewed in Butter. Ingredients.—A few nice young turnips; 2 oz. of fresh butter; white pepper and salt. Method.—Dissolve the butter in a large stewpan ; have ready the turnips cut into squares or fancy shapes, and arrange them in a single layer at the bottom of the stewpan. Stew very gently from three-quarters of an hour to one hour until perfectly tender. When nearly done, sprinkle over with a little white pepper and salt. Place them in the centre of a hot dish ; arrange fried or broiled cutlets, neatly round them, and serve. Cold Turnips, Greens, or Spinach. These can be heated in the same manner as cold brocoli, etc.; or a very appetizing dish is made by mincing the greens or spinach very finely, letting them get very hot in the oven; then placing them on rashers of fried bacon, with poached eggs on the top.pcMes. The first requirement in successful pickling is that the materials should be of the best—that the vegetables should be thoroughly good, and that the vinegar should be of superlative quality. Then care should be taken to heat the pickles in an enamelled saucepan or a stone jar, metal vessels being injurious, and to be avoided. For ladling from the pan or jar, wooden spoons should be used ; and the pickles should be pre- served, not in earthenware, but in jars of ?tone or glass—the smaller -the jars the better. In the case of earthenware, the vinegar acts in- juriously on the glazed surface. The pickles should always be kept covered with vinegar, and should be put away in a cupboard or pantry known to be dry. Pickled Beetroot. Ingredients. — Beetroots ; best white vinegar; 1 teaspoonful of salt; ^ oz. of allspice ; \ oz. of whole pepper to each quart of vinegar. Method. — Choose medium-sized beetroots ; wash them very clean, but on no account scrape, cut, or prick them, or they will lose their beautiful colour. Throw them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently for about one hour and a half or two hours. When quite cold, peel them carefully, and cut them into thin slices ; place in glass jars and cover them with the vinegar, previously boiled (for ten minutes), with the salt, allspice and pepper, and allow to get per- fectly cold. Cover closely with bladder, and in a week they will be ready for use. Pickled Bed Cabbage. Ingredients.—1 fine red cabbage ; salt; 1 pint of best white vinegar ; 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns ; 4 cloves. Method.—Wash the cabbage well, taking off all the decayed outside leaves ; cut it in quarters, and shred it very finely, having previously removed the stalks. Put a layer of the cabbage into a sieve, and strew salt thickly over it; proceed in this way until all the cabbage is used. Let it stand two days, turn- ing it frequently, so that all the moisture may drain from it, then put it into glass jars. Boil the vinegar with the above ingredients, and pour it boiling over the cab- bage. When cold, tie down with bladder, and in a week or two it will be fit for use.90 PICKLES. Pickled Eschalots. Make according to directions for pickled onions (which see), boiling the eschalots only two minutes in the vinegar. Mixed Pickle. Ingredients.—2 quarts of vinegar; 2 oz. of bruised ginger ; 2 oz. of mustard ; 2 oz. of salt; 1 oz. of mustard-seed ; f oz. of turmeric ; ^ oz. of ground black pepper ; £ oz. of cayenne ; cauliflowers ; onions ; celery; cucumbers (sliced); gherkins; French beans ; nasturtiums ; capsi- cums. Method.—Place the vinegar (ex- cept so much of it as is required to moisten certain of the ingredients) in a jar, of which the lid fits tightly. Put the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne into a basin; mix them together with vinegar, and stir well till the lumps disappear; add all the ingredients (except the vege- tables) to the vinegar in the jar, and stir well. May or June is the best month for making this pickle- liquor, which must be kept in a warm place and stirred every morn- ing for a month with a wooden spoon. Then, as the vegetables come into season, gather them on a dry day, wipe them with a cloth, and put them into the liquor— breaking up the cauliflower into small bunches. At the end of the season, store the pickle in smaller jars, covering them over with bladder. In this state (not having been boiled) the pickle must be kept for twelve months, when it will be fit for eating. Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. Ingredients.—2 pints of the best white vinegar ; oz. of salt; nas- turtium seeds. Method.—Boil the vinegar with the salt, pour it into a jar, and allow it to go cold. Throw into this, from day to day, the nastur- tium seeds, which must be gathered when quite young. When the jar is full, cork tightly, tie bladder over the cork, and store. In making sauce, this is an excellent substitute for capers. Pickled Onions. Ingredients.—2 pints of Reading onions ; 2 pints of the best white vinegar ; 2 teaspoonfuls of salt; 1 oz. of whole white pepper. Method.—Procure the onions just after they are harvested ; peel them carefully, and throw them into the boiling vinegar (previously skimmed), to which the salt and whole pepper have been added. Simmer them for three or four minutes until they look clear, put them into glass jars, pour the pickle over them, and, when quite cold, cover with skin or two folds of thick paper. Pickled Walnuts. Ingredients.—100 green walnuts; for brine to cover them, allow 6 oz. of salt to 1 quart of water ; 2 quarts of vinegar ; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 2 oz. whole black pepper ; 3 oz. of bruised ginger ; 3 blades of mace ; ^ oz. of cloves ; 4 small onions ; 2 oz. of mustard-seed. Method.—Choose green walnuts which have been gathered before the shell has begun to form ; if a strong needle can pierce them easily, they are in a proper state for pick- ling, not otherwise. Make a strong brine to cover them with the above proportions of salt and water, and carefully take off the scum as it rises. When cold, throw in the walnuts, and stir them night and morning with a wooden spoon;PICKLES. 91 change the brine at the end of six days, and let them remain six days longer; or if time is a consideration, let the walnuts lie in brine for nine days, and change the brine three times during that period. When they have been salted sufficiently, drain them in a colander, spread them on dishes, and let them re- main exposed to the air until they become black, which will be in about twelve hours. Make the pickle of the remaining ingredients, boil for about five minutes, then pour it boiling over the walnuts, which have been previously placed in stone jars. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jars securely, and store in a dry place. In six months it will be ready for use. Keep the walnuts well covered with vinegar, and boil that which is added to them {preserves. Fruit for this purpose should always be picked on a dry day, and, if possible, neither too early nor too late, so that it may not have on it either the morning or the evening dew. When for bottling, it should be steamed or baked on the day it is gathered ; when for jams or jellies, it should be boiled as soon as picked. The old copper preserve-pan is a little out of date, having been virtually superseded by the enamelled stew-pan, which may be used without fear of danger from acids, and which enables red fruits to retain their colour, at least as well as if boiled in a copper receptacle. For preserving, it is well to keep by you three or four wooden spoons, a fine hair-sieve, a few large squares of muslin, and a strainer, none of which should, for obvious reasons, be used for other purposes. All the utensils connected with the making of jams should be strictly clean—the bottles especially so. The pan should not be placed upon the fire flat, but resting upon a trivet. The fruit should be boiled rapidly, both before and after the sugar is added to it, and it should be kept constantly stirred. The spoons used for stirring should be of no other material than wood. The jars containing the preserve should be placed in a dry cupboard or storeroom. On the top of the jam should be paper dipped in brandy, and the jar itself should be tightly covered in. Apricot Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of apricots ; 4| lb. of loaf-sugar, pounded. Method. — Pare the apricots (which must be very ripe) as thinly as possible, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Put alternate layers of the fruit and sugar in a large earthen pan, strewing the sugar very thickly over the last layer of fruit. Let it remain twelve hours. Then break the stones, and blanch the kernels by throwing them into boil- ing water, then into cold ; skin, and cut them into thin slices. Put the apricots with the sugar and kernels into a preserving-pan, and boil the whole gently for about three-quarters of an hour ; stir all the time, and carefully remove thePRESERVES. 92 scum as it rises. When the pre- serve is perfectly clear, and hangs in a thread from the spoon, pour it into jam-pots. When quite cold, cover securely. Blanched bitter almonds are a great improvement to this jam, and may be sub- stituted for the apricot-kernels. Black Currant Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe black currants ; 4\ lb. of loaf-sugar. Method.—Strip the fruit from the stalks, and put into a pre- serving-pan with the sugar ; let it heat gently until the sugar is dis- solved, then boil rapidly till the jam is well set. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and keep stirring constantly to prevent the jam from burning. Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Black Currant Jelly. Ingredients.—3 pints of black currants ; 1 pint of red currants ; 1^- pints of water; 1 lb. of sugar (clarified and boiled to candy height) to every pint of juice. Method.—Strip the currants and put them into a jar with half a pint of water ; tie the jar closely over with folds of paper ; set it in a pan of water, and boil for twelve hours, taking care that none of the water gets into the jar; add more water to that in the pan, as it wastes in boiling. Turn the currants, when boiled, into a sieve, bruise them well with the back of a spoon, then gather the bruised berries together, and put them into a clean bowl; pour on them a pint of water, and bruise them again ; return them to the sieve, and let them drain all night; add what runs through to the rest of the juice, and to every pint allow sugar (clarified and boiled to candy-height) in the above proportion. Boil for half an hour, skim well, put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. To Preserve Bottled Fruits. Ingredients.—Fruit of any kind, not over-ripe; sugar. Method. — Get a number of proper preserving-bottles, and into them drop the fruit, with pounded sugar to the proportion of 1 oz. to each pint bottle. Fill a boiler with water, tie round each bottle a little straw to prevent concus- sion, and place in the water. Light the fire underneath, and in about twenty minutes the juices will have covered the fruit. Re- move the bottles, seal the corks with rosin, place them in sand, head downward, and preserve them in a dry and cool place. Preserved Cucumbers. Ingredients. — Cucumbers ; le- mons ; sugar; water ; ginger; lemon-rind ; mace ; peppercorns ; vinegar. Method.—Take several cucum - bers (according to number desired) and place them in salt and water (weak) for two days ; then for two more in fresh water, twice changed. If it be desired to preserve the colour, the cucumbers must be now put in a jar with cabbage or vine leaves beneath them ; scald- ing vinegar must then be poured over them, and more leaves laid on top. Keep them so, with lid down, beside the fire for one day, then pour off the vinegar, bring it again to boiling-point, throw in some powdered alum, and pour over the cucumbers, leaving for another day. Next take the cu- cumbers from the vinegar, and, with green leaves round them, boil93 PRESERVES. them in water for ten minutes, let them cool, and cut from the flat side of each a piece large enough to allow the seeds and pulp to be scraped from the inside. Next, dry the cucumbers, put inside each some sliced ginger, lemon-rind, mace, cloves, and peppercorns. Pat back, and tie on, the piece cut off. Pour over the cucumbers clarified sugar, 1 lb. to each pound of fruit ; cover firmly with a plate, soak for two days, then boil up the sugar with one-half more added. Keep the fruit thus in soak for a fortnight, boiling up the syrup three times ; then add the juice and grate of one lemon to every two cucumbers, boil all up for ten minutes, and pot. Damson Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe dam- sons (freshly gathered if possible) ; 4J lb. of loaf-sugar, roughly powdered. Method.—Rub the damsons in a clean cloth, split, stone, and weigh them, put them into a preserving- pan, and boil rapidly for forty minutes, stirring all the time ; add the sugar, and, when it is dis- solved, boil the jam for fifteen minutes longer, keeping it stirred and thoroughly skimmed. Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Gooseberry Jam. Ingredients.—To every pound of gooseberries allow 1 lb. of powdered sugar and \ pint of water. Method. — Cut the heads and stalks off the gooseberries ; put the gooseberries in a preserving- pan, and strew the sugar over them as you put them in ; add the j water in the above proportion; I let the whole boil gently for a few | minutes, stirring all the time ; then boil more rapidly for about twenty minutes, still stirring, until the fruit looks quite clear, and will jelly. Put it into pots, and, when cold, place brandy papers on the top, and cover closely. For red gooseberry jam allow J lb. of powdered loaf-sugar to every pound of fruit. Orange Marmalade. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients. — Seville oranges ; loaf-sugar ; water ; lemons. Method.—Take equal quantities of oranges and sugar. Wipe the oranges well, and grate off the yellow skin. Cut them cross-ways, extract the juice, and strain through a sieve. Take away the white part, skin and pips from the oranges, and put on the rinds to boil till tender, changing the water during the process. Take off the skins, scrape away any remaining white part, and cut them into very thin strips. Put the rinds, pulp, and juice into the sugar, which should be clarified, boil for half an hour, and add, for every pound of fruit, the juice and grate of one lemon. Boil up again, and turn into jam-pots. The lemon-juice may be omitted, and the grate of the oranges added, if liked. Transparent Orange Marmalade. Ingredients. — Oranges ; refined sugar; water. Method. — For this marmalade only the juice and pulp of the fruit are required. Wash the pulp in a small quantity of water, and strain the liquid, adding it to the juice. To each pint of the latter allow 1^ lb. of refined sugar, and partly boil the sugar ; then add it to the juice, and boil for a94 PRESERVES. quarter of an hour, skimming well meanwhile. The skins will make candied peel. Raspberry Jam. Ingredients.—6 lb. of ripe rasp- berries (freshly gathered if pos- sible) ; pint of red-currant juice ; 3 lb. of loaf-sugar. Method.—Take the stalks off the raspberries, put the latter in a pre- serving-pan, and bruise them gently with the back of a wooden spoon ; boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Then add the red-currant juice and sugar, roughly powdered, and boil for thirty minutes longer ; stir well, and remove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not be clear- Put into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Rhubarb Jam. Ingredients.—Allow 1 lb. of loaf- sugar to every pound of rhubarb ; the rind and juice of 1 lemon to every 6 lb. of fruit. Method. — Wipe and peel the rhubarb, cut it into small pieces, and put it in a large basin with the lemon-peel cut up fine, and the sugar. Let it lie all night. Next morning put the whole into a pre- serving-pan, and simmer gently for four or five hours, keeping it care- fully skimmed, and stirred with a wooden spoon. Put the jam in pots, and cover with egged paper. Strawberry Jam. Ingredients. — 4 lb. of straw- berries ; 1 lb. of white-currant juice ; 2^- lb. of loaf-sugar. Method. — Remove the stalks from the strawberries, weigh the latter, put them into a preserving- pan with the currant-juice, and boil for thirty-five minutes, stir- ring constantly. Add the sugar, beaten small, and boil the preserve again quickly for twenty-five minutes. Stir gently all the time, and skim carefully. Put the jam into pots, and, when cold, cover closely. Vegetable Marrow Preserve. Ingredients.—To every pound of marrow allow 1 lb. of loaf-sugar and 1 lemon. Method.—Peel, and remove the seeds from the marrows, which slice very finely, and place in a deep dish, with alternate layers of loaf-sugar. Let these remain for twenty-four hours, then put them into a pan and boil them for twenty minutes, after which re- turn the preserve to the dish, and allow it to stand twenty-four hours longer. Add the juice of the lemons, and the rinds, minced ex- tremely small, and boil the whole for about forty minutes. Pour into jars, and, when cold, place brandy papers over, and cover the pots with paper dipped in the white of an egg. Preserved Walnuts. (Medicinal.') Ingredients. — Allow £ lb. of sugar to each score of green wal- nuts. Method. — Procure the walnuts fit for pickling—that is when the shell is so soft that a needle can pierce it easily—put them into a stone jar with the sugar, and place the jar in a deep saucepan of boil- ing water to boil slowly for three hours, taking care that the water does not get Into the jar. The sugar, when dissolved, should cover the walnut; if it does not, add more. Tie closely down with a bladder, and in six months it will be ready for use. Walnuts pre«FORCEMEAT, ETC. 95 pared in this way are an excellent will find it not only efficacious but purgative. One walnut will be a agreeable to the taste, sufficient dose for a child, who forcemeat, etc. ‘Plodding perseverance,’ says Jekyll, ‘may make a good roaster, and careful observance of rules a tolerable compounder of a made- dish ; but the true maker of forcemeat, like the true poet, must be born.’ The fact is that the composition and use of stuffing must depend very much upon circumstances and the cook. All forms of forcemeat have for basis bread-crumbs bound together by egg, but, beyond that, there is an almost limitless field for ingenuity. Spiced beef, grated ham, boiled livers, hard eggs, sausage, pickled oysters, lobster, crawfish, shrimps, anchovy, caviare, mushrooms, truffles, chestnuts, chopped onions, garlics, curry powder, etc., etc., may all be used as relishes, and it is for the cook to say what and how much shall be used, according to the dish that she is preparing. All that she has to look to is that the herbs and spices are care- fully selected and compounded, no one relish being allowed to pre- dominate over the others. The whole should be blended together as artistically as possible. Egg-Balls for Soups and Made Dishes. Ingredients. — Some hard-boiled eggs ; flour ; pepper and salt. Method. — Boil the eggs for twenty minutes; place them in cold water for a minute to cool, then remove the shells, ' Take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar, or rub them to a powder with a wooden spoon; add suffi- cient flour and raw egg to make them into a stiff paste, season with pepper and salt, and make up in the form of balls the size of a marble. Boil in water for less than a minute, then add them to any made dishes or soups for which they may be required. Imitation Foie Gras. Ingredients. — £ lb. of calf’s liver; l lb. of bacon ; 1 carrot; 1 onion ; a bunch of herbs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Cut up the meat and vegetables, chop the herbs, and fry all together till well cooked, taking care that the liver does not brown. Add the pepper and salt, pound the whole in a mortar, pass through a wire sieve, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. This is ex- cellent, and may be used for a variety of dishes. Forcemeat Balls for Jugged Hare. Ingredients.—4 oz. of stale bread- crumbs ; a piece of lemon-peel; a spoonful of finely chopped parsley and thyme ; a little salt, pepper; and nutmeg; liver of hare ; 2 oz. of rasped bacon ; 2§ oz. of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 wine-glassful of port wine, if desired.96 FORCEMEAT, ETC. Method,—Grate the bread very- fine, also the piece of lemon-peel; add to them the chopped parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and nut- meg to taste. Next boil the liver for three or four minutes, and mince it finely ; add this to the above with the rasped bacon, and butter broken into small pieces. Then beat up the egg lightly, and mix all well together, adding the port wine, if desired. Form into balls with the hands, previously well floured, and fry a light brown in butter. This forcemeat can also be used for stuffing a roasted hare. The bacon may be omitted, and suet, finely minced, may be substituted for the butter. Stuffing for Fowl, etc. Ingredients. —1 breakfast cupful of bread-crumbs ; \ lb. of pork sausage-meat or suet ; 1 table- spoonful of finely chopped parsley; a little salt and pepper ; 1 egg. Method.—Mix the bread-crumbs, meat, parsley, and seasoning thoroughly together, then add the egg- Sage and Onion Stuffing. Ingredients. — 3 or 4 onions 5 ~ lb. bread-crumbs ; 1 oz. of but- ter ; 1 teaspoonful of dry powdered sage ; 1 egg ; pepper and salt. Method. — Put the onions into cold water and bring them to the boil ; take them out, and throw them into fresh boiling water, in order to extract the strong flavour. Boil for fifteen minutes. Prepare the bread-crumbs, season them rather highly with pepper, add the sage, butter (broken into small pieces), and salt. Chop the onion finely, and mix all together with the yolk of the egg. The egg can be left out if wished. Sweet Stuffing for Turkey. Ingredients.—1 lb. grated bread- crumbs ; 6 oz. of currants (cleaned with flour) ; 6 oz. of suet ; 1 hand- ful of parsley; 1 teacupful of sweet milk ; 1 egg; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Mince the suet very finely, also the parsley, after wash- ing it well. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, adding the egg and milk last of all. The same stuffing does for goose, with the addition of two small onions. Stuffing for Veal or Turkey. Ingredients. — 4 oz. of bread- crumbs ; the grated rind of ^ lemon ; some finely chopped pars- ley : a teaspoonful of dried and powdered thyme; a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 egg. Method.—Cut the bread from a stale loaf, grate it very finely, and mix with it the grated lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, and seasoning. Break into this the butter in small bits, then add the egg (unbeaten), and work the whole well together until it is quite smooth. Suet, finely minced, may be substituted for the butter, but it is not so good. On ordinary occasions half an ounce of the butter may be omitted ; and, if preferred, some of the thyme and parsley can be left out, and a little marjo.rani 0£ swee^ basil used instead,B>astn?. If possible, always make you7 pastrjr in a cool place. The cooler, too, you can keep your hands during the process the better. Not only should the hands be free from heat, but they should deal with the paste as lightly as possible, taking care not td roll it too heavily or too much. Yery much, of course, depends upon the oven and your know- ledge of it. For pastry, it should be very hot, and it is all the better when the heat comes from the bottom. Paste should not be allowed to brown too much or too quickly; when there are signs of its doing so, it should be removed to a less heated part of the oven. The making of paste does not require exceptional skill, but to be successful in it much practice is necessary. Puff Paste (1). An excellent authority supplies the following directions : ‘Weigh your butter and flour in equal proportions, cut the butter into thin slices, take a little flour and roll it with a slice of the butter into flakes; proceed thus until all the butter and flour are rolled together ; gather the flakes into a heap, and sprinkle them with water—about a gill and a half is required for a pound of paste. Make into a smooth paste with the hand, and then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch. If a pound of paste, divide it into four parts, flour the board, and roll out each part as thin as a wafer, fold over four or five times, and use as required. Bake as soon as possible. It is requisite to have the butter very firm, and free from water, and those who wish to have very superior pastry ■Will use Vienna flour, which is, however, expensive, and not to be had genuine in country towns. If you use ordinary flour, take care that it is dry, and sift it through a fine sieve. Excellent puff pastry may be made by using three-quar- ters of a pound of butter to a pound of flour ; but for the finest kind equal quantities of these are requisite. Good firm lard may be substituted for the butter, and three-quarters of a pound of it to one pound of flour will make a rich paste. This method, if fol- lowed, even for household pastry made with dripping, will be found to answer better than any other.’ Puff Paste (2). (Soyer’s Recipe.) Ingredients,.—To every pound of flour allow the yolk of 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon, J saltspoon- ful of salt, 1 lb. of fresh butter, cold water. Method.—Put the flour on to- rrPASTliY. 98 the paste-board ; make a hole in the centre, into which put the yolk of the egg, the lemon-juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold water (this should be iced in summer, if convenient) into a soft flexible paste with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible ; then squeeze all the butter-milk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over so as to hide it; roll it out again to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; fold over one-third, over which again pass the rolling-pin ; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over; and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some cool place for half an hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again upon the ice for a quarter of an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use when required. Puff Paste (3). (For Meat Pies, etc.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; | lb. of butter, lard, or clari- fied dripping ; a pinch of salt; water. Method. — Make according to directions for Puff Paste (1), or rub the butter lightly into the flour ; add the salt, and mix the whole into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Turn on to a board, roll out two or three times, and it will be ready for use, Crisp Paste for Tarts. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour, well dried.; | oz. of pounded sugar ; j cupful of boiling cream ; 1^ oz. of butter ; the yolk of 1 egg. Method.—Mix the flour and sugar well together ; make into a paste with the boiling cream and butter; work it well, and then add the yolk of the egg. A Good Crust for Fruit Tarts. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; \ lb. of butter; 1 dessertspoonful of sugar; cold water! Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix the whole together with as much water as will make a stiff paste ; roll it out three times as thin as a crown-piece. This is a good paste to cover all fruit tarts in dishes. Almond Pastry. Ingredients.—Puff paste ; a few sweet and bitter almonds ; the white of 1 egg ; a little sugar. Method. ■— Make some square thin pieces of puff paste ; pound a few sweet and bitter almonds very small; mix them with the white of the egg and a little sugar ; spread this upon the pieces of pastry, and bake them in the oven till they are as crisp as possible. Cheese Pastry. Ingredients.—4 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of baking powder, 2 eggs, 3‘oz. of grated cheese, 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice ; a little salt and pepper. Method.—Place the flour on the board, and add to it half of the butter chopped up into small pieces. Add the baking-powder, and, with the aid of a little coldPASTRY. 99 water, make the whole into a dry- dough. Knead this lightly to- gether, and roll it out thinly ; scatter over it in small pieces half of the remainder of the butter ; fold the dough into three ; turn it half round, and roll out thinly again. Add the rest of the butter in bits ; fold, and cut into two pieces. Next separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Place the cheese in a basin, drop in the yolks and lemon-juice, and beat well together. Whisk the ■whites of the eggs to a froth, and add it very lightly to the mixture in the basin, stirring gently. Take half the dough, and roll it out to a square. Place it on a tin, and pour the mixture over it. Then take the remaining piece of dough, roll it out, and put it on the top of the cheese, marking it with a knife in stripes. Place the whole in a quick oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When it is cooked, cut it into fingers. Suet Crust. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour ; 5, 6, or 8 oz. of good beef suet; cold water. Method.—Shave the. suet ex- tremely fine ; mix a little of it with some flour, and proceed ac- cording to directions for Puff Paste (1). Or it can be made in the usual way. Having chopped the suet very finely, rub it well into the flour, then add water enough to make the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it out, and it is ready for use. To Glaze Pastry. When the pastry is nearly baked, take it out of the oven and brush it over with the well-beaten yolk of an egg ; return it to the oven to set the glaze. To Ice Pastry. Ingredients. — The white of 1 egg ; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Method. — Whisk the white lightly, with the sugar, to a stiff froth. Spread it over the pastry wThen it is nearly baked, then re- turn the pastry to the oven for a few minutes to harden the glaze. Care must be taken not to let it burn. Apple Pie. Ingredients. — Apples ; moist sugar ; the grated rind of 1 lemon; suet paste made with 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of good beef suet, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and water. Method. — Pare, quarter, and core the apples, and put them on to stew with a very little water When they are about half cooked, put them into a deep pie-dish, having previously added moist sugar to taste, and the grated rind of the lemon. Have ready the paste rolled out thin ; lay a border round the edge of the pie-dish, put on the cover in the usual way, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. It is a good plan, especially where the family is large, always to half cook the fruit before putting it in the tart. By this means it will be so reduced that you will be able to get into the pie-dish nearly twice as much fruit as you would were the fruit uncooked. By this means, also, you will prevent the crust being kept too long in the oven.PASTRY. 100 Cherry Tart. Ingredients. — Cherries ; moist sugar ; short crust lb.). Method.—Take a deep pie-dish and put in the centre of it a small cup, turned upside down. Round the cup place sufficient cherries (picked and wiped) to quite fill the dish ; sprinkle sugar thickly over them. Roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; lay a border round the edge of the dish, wet the pastry, and put on the cover, carefully pressing the two edges together with your thumbs ; trim and or- nament the edge ; make two small slits in the top to allow the steam to escape, and decorate with leaves. Bake in a brisk oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Dust sifted sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. Any fruit-tart may be made by this recipe. Open Jam Tart. Ingredients. — Puff-paste ; jam —any kind preferred. Method.—Line a shallow dish, or tart-tin, with puff-paste, and lay a strip about an inch wide round the edge. In the centre spread a thick layer of any kind of jam preferred, and ornament the top with narrow bars of the pastry, twisted and placed diagon- ally both ways over the surface of the preserve. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. A pretty effect is produced by dividing the tart (with twisted strips of the paste) into six or eight sections, and filling each section alternately with jam and marmalade, or some nicely made custard. Some cooks add the jam after the pastry is baked, as they con- sider that both the flavour and colour of the preserve is lost by baking. Cream-Puffs. Ingredients.—£ lb. of butter ; | lb. of prepared flour ; 6 eggs ; 2 cupfuls of warm water. Method.—Stir the butter into the warm water ; set over the fire, and let it gradually come to the boil, stirring all the time. When boiling, put in the flour. Cook one minute, stirring constantly. Turn into a deep dish to cool. Beat the eggs light—yolks and whites separately—and whip them into the cooled paste, the whites last. Drop large spoonfuls of the mixture upon buttered paper, not so near as to touch or run into each other. Bake about ten minutes in a quick oven, until they are of a golden brown. Filling. (For Cream Puffs.) Ingredients.—4 cupfuls of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-flour ; 2 eggs ; 2 cupfuls of sugar ; 1 full teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla essence. Method.—Mix the corn-flour to a smooth paste with a little of the milk, and boil the remainder. Add to the beaten eggs the sugar and corn-flour. Pour gradually upon these the hot milk ; mix well ; return to the fire, and stir the whole until thick. Let it get cold before flavouring it. Pass a sharp knife carefully round the puffs— which should also be cold—split neatly, and fill with the mixture. They are best when eaten fresh. Matrimony Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of puff paste; 1 egg ; 2 or 3 lemons ; currants ; sugar.101 PASTRY; Method—Make some good puff paste (which see), roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, cut out with a large round cutter, wet the edges, and in the centre place a layer of cur- rants (well washed and dried) ; over these some grated lemon- rind, then sugar, and lastly another layer of currants ; squeeze some lemon-juice over the top, and cover with paste ; press the edges together all round, and brush over with the white of the egg. Bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. These cakes are exceed- ingly good re-heated. Before putting them in the oven they should be opened up and a small piece of butter laid in the centre of each. Matrimony Tart. Ingredients.—1 dozen apples ; ^ lb. of currants (picked, washed, and dried) ; 2 oz. of candied peel chopped linely ; sifted sugar ; a little grated nutmeg, if liked; puff paste. Method. — Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; put them into a saucepan with a little water, and stew them to a pulp, stirring fre- quently ; then add the currants, the candied peel, sugar to taste, and nutmeg. Line a tart-tin or dish with puff-paste ; pour the fruit, when it has cooled a little, into it; cover with crust, press the edges together all round, make a hole in the centre, and bake. Mince-Meat. {For Mince Pies.') Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins? 1\ lb. of currants ; l£ lb. of beef suet; 1 lemon ; f lb. cooked beef (all lean) ; 1 lb. of Demerara sugar; 1 lb. of apples ; 6 oz. of candied peel; 1 small nutmeg ; £ pint of brandy. Method.—IStone and chop the raisins ; thoroughly wash and dry the currants ; mince the suet very finely, also the beef and apples ; slice the candied peel ; grate the nutmeg, and grate the rind off the lemon. When all the ingredients have been well mixed together, add the lemon-juice and brandy, stir a few times, then press the whole closely into a jar, which cover down very tightly, and keep in a cool place. To Make Mince Pies. Ingredients.—Puff-paste (f lb. of butter or lard to 1 lb. of Hour) ; mince-meat. Method.—To make, say, a dozen mince pies, proceed as lollows : Roll out the paste to the desired thickness, cut it into two dozen rounds the size of your patty- pans, and with a dozen of these rounds cover the tins ; lay some mince-meat in the centre of each ; wet the edges of the pastry, and cover with the remaining rounds, pressing the edges lightly together. Bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. Before baking, the pies may be glazed, if de- sired, with white of egg and sifted sugar. Baked Roly-Poly. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of Hour and good beef dripping ; a little salt; 1 teaspoonful of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder ; buttermilk or water ; jam. Method.—Mix well in a basin the flour, dripping, sugar, salt, and baking-powder, and add as much buttermilk or water as will makePASTRY. 102 the whole into a stiff paste, gather- ing in all the flour in the bow]. Turn out on the board, and roll out to a thin sheet, long-shaped. Spread jam evenly over it, and roll up neatly, forming the ends like a bolster. Place on a greased tin, and bake for about an hour, in a moderate oven. Sausage Rolls. Ingredients.—£ lb. cold pork ; £lb. boiled ham; 1 lb. flour; 1 des- sert-spoonful of baking-powder ; 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs ; 1 egg ; £ pint cold water ; 5 oz. butter ; seasoning to taste. Method— Chop the pork and ham well separately, then mix with the herbs and seasoning. Make with the flour, baking- powder, and salt, moistened with the water and beaten ego:, a light paste; roll this out once on a paste-board ; put on it, in small pieces, the butter ; roll up, and knead gently, then roll again on the board into rather a thin paste. Cut the paste into pieces of the desired size ; put in each a small portion of the minced meat; cover round with the paste, and ioin the edges well together. Bake in a tin in a quick oven till nicely browned. pubbtnos. It is of the first importance that all the ingredients used in the making of puddings and sweets should be unquestionably fresh and good. If any are stale or sour, they will, vitiate all the others, and the result will be considerable waste. The freshness of the eggs used should be especially attended to ; and care should be taken that the milk has not even a touch of sourness. Currants should be cleaned, raisins stoned, almonds and spices pounded, and the rinds of oranges grated, with absolute thoroughness; and we may add that the weighing-out of ingredients, in the first place, cannot be too accur- ately done. All puddings made with paste should be opened a little at the top as soon as they are taken out of the pot. And they should be sent at once to table, as, if there is any delay in serving, they are rendered uneatable. ‘ Many persons,’ says an authority, ‘ prefer their puddings steamed ; but when this is not done, they should be dropped into plenty of boiling water, and be kept well covered with it until they are ready to serve ; and the boiling should never be allowed to cease for an instant, for they soon become heavy if it be interrupted.’ Attention should be paid to the thorough cleaning of pudding- cloths. The best way is to wash them in three quarts of boiling water, to which a pint of wood ashes has been added, and then to rinse them in abundance of water, changing it several times. They can also be washed in soda and water (2 oz. of soda to a gallon of water), provided they are afterwards carefully rinsed. Washing with soap is to be deprecated, but, if unavoidable, the rinsing and soaking afterwards in successive changes of water should be thorough. The cloths should be always carefully dried, and kept folded in a clean drawer.PUDDINGS. 103 Almond Pudding. Ingredients—§ bitter almonds ; 2 oz. of sweet almonds ; milk ; 4 eggs; ^ gill of cream; 2 tablespoon- fuls of brandy; 6oz.of stale sponge- cake ; 2 oz. of sifted sugar ; some dried cherries. For sauce: 1 tea- spoonful of. arrowroot ; 1 table- spoonful of cold milk; 1 gill of boiling milk ; 1 dessertspoonful of white sugar ; £ lb. of cherry jelly. Method.—Blanch the almonds (bitter and sweet), and boil them for twenty minutes in sufficient milk to cover them ; take them out of the milk and pound them to a paste in a mortar ; when the milk is nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, the cream and brandy; rub the sponge-cake to crumbs, mix in with the other ingredients, beat all well together for ten minutes, then stir in the sifted sugar. Butter a mould, stick' it round in Vandykes with dried cherries, pour in the mix- ture, cover with buttered writing paper, and steam quickly for 2 hours. When the pudding is nearly cooked, make the sauce as follows : Mix the arrowroot quite smooth in the cold milk* stir in the boiling milk, and add the sugar ; boil three minutes, stir- ring all the time ; then stir in very gradually the cherry jelly, dis- solved, and continue stirring (off the fire) till the sauce is quite smooth. Turn the pudding care- fully on to a dish, and serve. Amy’s Pudding. Ingredients. — Grated bread- crumbs ; red currant jelly ; a little sugar; 1 egg; milk; ground cinnamon or nutmeg. Method. — Butter a pudding- dish, and put into it a thick layer of bread-crumbs, then a layer of jelly, and over that another layer of bread-crumbs. Beat up the egg and mix with it a little sugar, and just sufficient milk to cover the bread. Sprinkle with cinna- mon or nutmeg, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strawberry or rasp- berry jam, or marmalade, can be substituted for the jelly, if pre- ferred. Apple Dumplings. Ingredients.—6 apples ; mcist sugar; f lb. of suet-crust (see Pastry). Method.— Peel the apples, care- fully remove the cores, and fill the centre of each apple with moist sugar. Have the crust ready cut into six portions ; place an apple in the centre of each piece of paste, and draw the paste round it till. it is quite covered, taking care that the paste is neatly joined. Tie the dumplings securely in floured cloths, put them into boiling water and boil them from three- quarters of an hour to one hour, according to their size. When done, remove the cloths, and send quickly to table. These dump- lings may be baked instead of boiled. To bake them, place them on a greased tin in a moderate oven. When ready, arrange them neatly on a dish, and sprinkle pounded white sugar over them. If preferred, puff-paste may be substituted for the suet-crust. Apple Pancakes. (iGerman.) Ingredients.—Pancake batter; apples ; a little powdered sugar; grated lemon-peel ; a small lump of butter.104 PUDDINGS. Method.—Pare, core, and cut I tlie apples in slices, and put them into a saucepan, with a little | butter, to stew till soft. Spread them between nicely fried pan- cakes, sprinkle sugar over, and serve very hot. Apple and Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—4 oz. ground rice; 12 boiled apples; 4 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar; 1 oz. mixed peel; lemon for seasoning; paste. Method.—Boil the rice soft, with a little lemon-peel, and strain into a basin. Mix with it the pulp of the boiled apples, and beat together. Beat the eggs, and with the sliced candied peel add to the other ingredients. Line a basin with thin paste, put in the above mixture, and bake for about half an hour. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Apricot Pudding. Ingredients. — \ pint grated bread-crumbs; yolks of 4 eggs and whites of 2; 1 wine-glassful of sherry ; 2 oz. sugar; 12 or 14 apricots ; puff-paste (see Pastry). Method. — Stew the apricots gently till rather soft, peel them, take out the stones, and put into a basin. Warm the cream, and in it soak the bread-crumbs till cold. Beat the egg-yolks and add them with the wine and sugar to the bread-crumbs. Mix these in- gredients with the apricots, add the whites of eggs, beat all together, and put in a pie-dish lined with paste. Bake for half an hour. In this and all fruit puddings the quantity of sugar used must depend on individual taste and the quality of the fruit. Boiled Apricot Pudding. Ingredients.—Some thin slices of bread and butter without crust; apricot jam ; custard. Method.—Well butter a basin and nearly fill it with thin slices of bread and butter, with a layer of jam between each slice. Pour over a well-seasoned custard, let it stand for a while before cooking, then steam or boil for one hour. Serve with wine-sauce. Aunt Nelly’s Pudding. Ingredients.—| lb. of flour ; £ lb. of suet; J lb. of treacle; the juice and rind (grated) of 1 lemon ; a few strips of candied lemon-peel (cut very small); 3 tablespoonfuls of cream; 2 eggs. Method.—Mince the suet finely and rub it well into the flour ; add the other dry ingredients, then the well-beaten eggs and the cream. Mix all thoroughly to- gether, and boil in a basin for four hours. Balloon Pudding. Ingredients.—2 eggs; 2 oz. of castor sugar; 2 oz. of flour; 2 tearpoonfuls of baking-powder ; a little milk. Method.—Mix the dry ingredi- ents ; add the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk. Bake twenty minutes, then cut the pudding in two and spread preserve between. Black-Cap Pudding. Ingredients. — Some currants ; 3 eggs ; 3 large tablespoonfuls of flour; 1 pint of new milk; a pinch of salt. Method. — Strew a buttered mould thickly with currants ; make a batter with the eggs, well beaten, the flour, milk, and salt; tie a cloth tightly over the basin,105 PUDDINGS. and boil one hour. Turn out, and serve with sweet sauce. Black Currant Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour ; a pinch of salt; i lb. of suet; water; some fresh black currants. Method. — Mix the suet, very finely chopped, wfith the flour and salt; add sufficient water to make into a stiff paste. Boll out to about a quarter of an inch thick ; line a buttered basin with it, re- serving some for the lid. Have ready the currants stripped from the stalks ; fill the basin ; wet the edges of the paste ; put on the lid, and press the edges securely together. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, put it into boiling water, and keep boiling for two hours. Bread Pudding. Ingredients. — 1 thick slice of bread ; . 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk ; 1 table-spoonful of sugar ; a piece of butter the size of a large walnut; a little flavouring ; 5 eggs. Method. — Crumble down the bread, and pour the boiling milk over it (if the bread is stale, allow it to soak in the milk for half an hour); add the sugar, essence, and butter. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and stir them in last of all. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould or pudding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about three- quarters of an hour. For a plain pudding one egg will be sufficient; a little finely minced suet may be substituted for the butter, and a few currants may be added, if liked. Bread-and-Butter Pudding. Ingredients.—Some thin slices of bread-and-butter; sugar to taste ; a few currants, washed and dried ; a little grated nutmeg or ground cinnamon; 5 teacupfuls of milk ; 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Arrange the slices of bread-and-butter in a pudding- dish, and between each slice put a layer of currants, a little sugar, and a sprinkle of grated nutmeg or cinnamon. When the dish is nearly full, pour the milk (pre- viously boiled and mixed with the well-beaten eggs) over the bread-and-butter. Allow it to soak for two hours, if possible, then bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. One or two of the eggs may be omitted, or, if a richer pudding is desired, more eggs and a little cream may be added. Brown Bread Pudding. (German.) Ingredients. — 1 basinful of grated brown bread; 3 oz. of castor sugar ; 2 oz. of pounded almonds ; 2 oz. of currants ; 2 oz. of sultana raisins; the grated peel of \ lemon ; a little spice; a little milk ; 6 eggs. Method.—Mix all the dry in- gredients together, and stir into them the well-beaten yolks of the six eggs, and sufficient milk to moisten the whole ; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Put the pudding in a well- buttered basin, and boil for one hour and a half. Serve with castor sugar, or a pudding sauce, if pre- ferred. Cold Cabinet Pudding. Ingredients. — 4 sponge-cakes ; 3 eggs ; 1| pint of milk; 1 oz. gelatine ; 3 oz. sugar ; 1 wine- glassful of sherry. Method.—Put the gelatine in a106 PUDDINGS. saucepan, and soak it for about twenty minutes in sufficient inilk to cover it. Make a custard with the eggs, milk, and sugar; melt the gelatine, and stir into it the custard. Place the sponge-cakes, soaked in the sherry, at the bottom of a mould, and pour over them the gelatine and custard. Put the mould into a cool place, and turn out the pudding when sufficiently set. A layer of jam may be put on the sponge-cakes, if liked, before the custard is added. Cake Pudding. A delightful pudding can be quickly made by returning either sponge-cake (2) (which see) or one, two, three, four-cake (which see) to the mould, and steaming until the cake is warmed through. Then turn on to a dish, and pour clear lemon sauce (which see) or any other fruit sauce over it. Canary Pudding. Ingredients. — 3 eggs ; their weight in butter, and pounded sugar. The weight of 2 eggs in flour ; the rind of 1 lemon. Method— Melt the butter (not to oil), mix with sugar and rind of lemon grated fine. Dredge in the flour, add the eggs, and beat all well together. Put in buttered mould, and boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Carrot Plum Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour; £ lb. of suet ; £ lb. of grated carrots (raw); \ lb. of mashed potatoes ; \ lb. of sugar ; £ lb. of raisins; £ lb. of currants ; 1 oz. of candied lemon peel; a little nutmeg, and other spices. Method.—Mince the suet finely, and rub it well into the flour; see that the potatoes are free from all lumps ; stone the raisins ; wash and dry the currants ; chop the peel, and mix all the ingredients thoroughly together. No liquid is required, the carrots giving sufficient moisture. Tie in a floured cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell. Boil for six hours, and serve with brandy-sauce. If the carrots are fresh and fine, it is impossible to detect their presence in the pud- ding. Chocolate Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of light stale bread (without crust) ; 1 pint of milk; 1 oz. of butter; 2 large teaspoonfuls of powdered choco- late ; 2 eggs well beaten ; a little sugar. Method.—Boil the bread in the milk till it becomes a thick paste; when it has cooled a little, add the other ingredients, and put the whole into a buttered pie-dish. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Cocoa-nut Pudding. Ingredients.—2 cupfuls of finely sifted bread-crumbs; 3 table- spoonfuls of Maltby’s desiccated cocoa-nut; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 2 teacupfuls of boiling milk ; 3 eggs. Method. — Mix the dry ingre- dients, add the milk, and let the mixture stand for a quarter of an hour. Then add the eggs, well beaten; pour into a buttered mould, and steam for three- quarters of an hour. Serve with cream. Conservative Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ratafia and macaroon cakes mixed; 4 spongePUDDINGS. 107 biscuits ; the yolks of 8 eggs ; j pint of cream; 1 glass of brandy; butter ; some stoned raisins. Method.—Beat the cakes, bis- cuits, eggs, cream, and brandy well together (the cakes having been previously soaked in the cream and brandy). Take a well- buttered mould and place the raisins in a pattern over it; pour in the pudding; place the mould in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for one hour and a half. When done, turn out on a dish. Cream Pudding. Ingredients.—1| pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 3 oz. butter; 1^ table- spoonful of arrowroot or corn- flour ; 2 oz. sugar; a little lemon or other flavouring. Method. — Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till quite smooth ; flavour with a few drops of lemon-essence or juice, and stir into it the butter. Bring the rest of the milk to boiling-point in a lined saucepan, and add the sugar; then pour it into the arrowroot, stirring well together. Beat the eggs thoroughly ; stir them into the other ingredients, and pour the whole into a pie-dish. This pudding should be baked in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. It may be served with stewed fruit. Cup Pudding. Ingredients.—1 cupful of flour ; 1 cupful of suet; 1 cupful of bread- crumbs ; 1 cupful of sugar ; 1 cupful of currants ; £ cupful of raisins ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 cupful of milk, and 1 well-beaten egg. Method.—Mince the suet finely; stone the raisins; well wash and dry the currants. Mix the. in- gredients all together, put in a greased basin, and steam for two hours. Apples and figs, chopped finely, can be substituted for the currants and raisins. Cup Puddings. Ingredients. — 4 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 1 pint of milk ; 4 eggs ; sugar and nutmeg to taste. Method.—Beat the milk and flour to a smooth batter; stir in the well-whisked eggs, and add the sugar and nutmeg ; mix well. Fill buttered teacups two parts full, and bake in a quick oven. Currant Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. red currants (or any other fresh fruit); sugar ; some slices of plain bread. Method.—Stew the currants with sugar. Cut the bread into slices about half an inch thick, and shape a layer into the bottom of a pudding-dish; over this place a layer of the boiling fruit, jthen a layer of bread, and so on till the dish is full. Place the pudding in the oven for a few minutes. When cold, turn it on to a dish, and serve with cream, or cold custard sauce. Baked Custard Pudding. Ingredients. — 6 teacupfuls of milk ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; 6 eggs; a little lemon or other flavouring; nutmeg. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar ; when on the point of boiling, take it off the fire, and let it stand a minute or two to cool. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and pour the milk over them, stirring all the time ; add the flavouring ; pour the custard into a mould or103 PUDDINGS. pudding-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a very slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour. If a plainer custard is desired, two of the eggs may be omitted, or two more cupfuls of milk may be added. Dough Dumplings. Divide a pound of dough (from a baking of light bread) into six pieces of an equal size ; form these into dumplings ; drop them into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil them rapidly from twelve to fifteen minutes. Send to table at once, the moment they are dished. Serve with wine sauce, raspberry vinegar, or sugar and butter. They must never be cut, but should be torn apart with a couple of forks. Eve’s Pudding. Ingredients.—The outside part of 2 grated carrots; 2 grated apples ; 2 grated potatoes ; 1 tea- cupful of minced suet; 4 teacup- fuls of grated bread ; 1 teaspoon- ful of spice; 1 teacupful of currants and raisins ; 3 eggs ; milk. Method.—Wash and dry the currants, beat the eggs, and mix all the ingredients together. Add sufficient milk to moisten thoroughly. Put into a greased basin, and steam for three hours. Turn out, and serve with any sweet sauce. Fig Pudding. Ingredients.—6 oz. of suet; | lb. of figs ; | lb. of bread-crumbs ; 4 oz. of moist sugar; a little nutmeg; 1 egg; a cupful of milk. Method.—Chop the suet and figs fine; mix first the suet with the bread-crumbs ; then add the figs and sugar, a little nutmeg, the egg, well beaten, and the cup of milk ; stir all well together, and boil in a greased mould for four hours. Florence Pudding. Ingredients.—J lb. of flour ; \ lb. of flour of rice ; \ lb. brown sugar; i lb. of suet (well minced); \ lb. of currants ; ^ teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda ; pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of skim-milk. Method.—Wash and dry the currants, and mix all the in- gredients well together, adding, last of all, the milk. Boil in a mould for three and a half hours. The addition of 2 eggs, with less milk, improves the pudding. Ginger Pudding. Ingredients.—21 tablespoonfuls of flour ; oz. of suet; 2 tea- spoonfuls of caraway seeds (if liked) ; 1 teaspoonful of allspice ; 1 teaspoonful of ginger ; 1 tea- spoonful of cinnamon ; £ teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda ; 1 tea- cupful of milk ; 1 teacupful of syrup (warmed) ; 1 egg. Method.—Rub the suet, very finely minced, well into the flour ; mix in the other dry ingredients ; then add the milk, egg, and syrup. Pour into a basin, cover with a floured cloth, and steam three hours. Serve with sweet sauce (2) (which see). Gingerbread Pudding'. Ingredients.—f lb. of flour; £ lb. of syrup ; £ lb. suet; 1 table- spoonful sugar ; 2 teaspoonfuls ginger; juice of 1 small lemon ; 1 teaspoonful soda, a little milk. Method.—Mix together in a basin the flour, suet (previously109 PUDDINGS. chopped fine), ginger, soda, and sugar ; then add the syrup and lemon-juice ;stir well, adding suf- ficient milk to make a very stiff dough ; turn into a well-buttered basin ; give plenty of room for swelling; cover with a floured cloth, and place in a saucepan with about two inches of boiling water; steam three hours. N.B.— A few sultana raisins may be added, and will be found an improvement. For sauce : milk, lemon-juice, and sugar, made hot, but not allowed to boil. Gladstone Pudding. Ingredients.—3-lb. of flour ; £ lb. of beef suet (well minced); } lb. currants (washed and dried); % lb. golden syrup; 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoon- ful of ground ginger; a few drops essence of lemon. Method.—Mix well all the dry ingredients, and add the syrup, lemon, and beaten eggs. Boil in a basin, covered with a floured cloth, for three hours. Green Gooseberry Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of goose- berries ; 1 oz. of butter; 4 eggs ; sugar, bread-crumbs. Method.—Pick and wipe the gooseberries ; boil them until soft; sweeten to taste ; add the butter and eggs, well beaten, and when the fruit is quite cold mix all well together. Strew a well-buttered mould thickly with bread-crumbs and sugar; pour the fruit very gently into it, and strew more bread-crumbs and sugar thickly over the top. Bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. When taken out of the oven, cover with a cloth. Serve, when cold, turned out on a dish. Half-Pay Pudding. Ingredients.—| pint of milk ; l lb. of flour ; i lb. of currants; \ lb. of raisins ; £ lb. of suet; J lb. of bread-crumbs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Method. — Wash and dry the currants ; stone the raisins ; chop the suet, and mix all the in- gredients thoroughly together. Put into a cloth or mould, and boil for three hours. Serve, if desired, with wine or brandy sauce. Helena Pudding. Ing7‘edients.—4 oz. stale bread- crumbs ; 2 oz. of moist sugar ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. candied peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of raspberry or other jam ; 2 eggs; and 1 pint of milk. Method.—Boil the milk, pour it over the bread-crumbs, and allow them to soak for ten minutes ; then add the beaten yolks of the eggs, the peel, chopped very fine, and the butter. Pour this into a buttered pudding - dish ; spread the jam on the top ; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Bake for half an hour. When cold, turn out, and sprinkle over with castor sugar. Hominy Pudding. Ingredients.—6 tablespoonfuls of flaked hominy ; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 2 eggs ; a little flavouring. Method. — Mix the hominy smooth with a little of the cold milk ; boil the remainder of the milk and stir the hominy into it; keep stirring it over a clear fire until it thickens; add the sugar and flavouring, and pour the whole into a buttered pudding - dish.110 PUDDINGS. When slightly cooled mix in the eggs, well beaten, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Baked Lemon Pudding. Ingredients.—£ lb. of flour; 10 oz. of butter; \ lb. castor sugar; 4 eggs, and 1 large lemon. Method.—Make the flour and 6 oz. of the butter into a stiff paste ; roll out thin, and spread over a rather flat dish; place another layer of paste round the edge. Put the sugar, the re- mainder of the butter, and the grated rind of the lemon into a basin, and place on the stove to melt. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add them, along with the juice of the lemon, to the melted butter. Pour the mixture into the dish, cover with thin greased paper, and bake in a quick oven. Lemon Pudding Boiled. (Soger's Pecipe.) Ingredients.— J lb. of flour; l lb. of sugar : i lb. of bread- crumbs ; i lb. of suet; the juice of 1 good-sized lemon, and the peel grated ; 2 eggs ; milk. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, add the sugar, bread-crumbs, finely chopped suet, lemon-juice, grated peel, two eggs, and suffi- cient milk to make the whole of the same consistency as porridge. Boil in a basin for one hour. Serve with or without sauce. Lemon Cheese-Cake Pudding. Ingredients.—Suet - crust (see Pastry); 2 oz. of white sugar ; the yolks of 3 eggs ; the juice of 2 small lemons or 1 large lemon ; a little grated lemon-peel ; 2 oz. of butter ; 1 penny sponge-cake. Method.—Put all the ingredients, with the exception of the paste, into a saucepan, and let the whole simmer over a gentle fire until it resembles honey ; keep stirring, and do not let it boil. When thick, take it off the fire ; let it cool; then spread it on the paste, previously rolled out thin ; roll the pudding up, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Lemon Custard Puddings. Ingredients.—The yolks of 6 eggs, and 3 whites; the grated rind of 2 lemons; the juice of 1 lemon ; \ lb. of powdered sugar ; 2 Naples biscuits, grated ; a small glass of brandy ; 1 pint of cream; 2 oz. of fresh butter. Method.—Put the eggs into a basin along with the lemon-juice, the grated rind, the powdered sugar, the grated biscuits, and brandy ; beat all well together ; then add the cream and butter. Pour into buttered moulds, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. This is a very good recipe. Lemon Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—£ lb. of Carolina rice ; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 1 lemon. Method.—Boil the rice in the milk with the sugar until quite soft; pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water, and let it remain until cold. Peel the lemon; put the peel into a saucepan with a little water, and let it boil for about ten minutes, then throw the Water away and cut the peel in thin shreds ; pour a teacupful of boiling water upon them, add the lemon-juice (strained and sweetened with white sugar), put the whole into a saucepan, and simmer gently for two hours. When cold, pour the syrup overIll PUDDINGS. the rice, which has been previ- ously turned on to a dish. Llandudno Pudding. Ingredients.—4 eggs (well beaten); 1 cupful of flour; £ cupful of sugar ; £ teaspoonful of baking soda; 1 dessert spoonful of marmalade ; | lb. of butter. Method. — Melt the butter slightly, add it to the other in- gredients and mix all well together. Put the mixture into a buttered basin, and steam for three hours. Turn out, and serve with sauce made of corn-flour and milk. Macaroni Pudding. Ingredients.—2% oz. of the best Italian macaroni; 1 quart of milk; sugar to taste ; 2 or 3 eggs ; a few drops of any flavouring preferred; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Break the macaroni into small pieces, and simmer it in 1 pint of the milk for about three-quarters of an hour until perfectly tender. Put it into a pudding-dish, and pour over it the remainder of the milk, pre- viously mixed with the eggs, well beaten, the sugar and flavour- ing. Grate a little nutmeg over the top of the pudding, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. Half a wineglass- ful of brandy may be added, if liked. Marrow Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of boiling milk; 1 penny loaf ; 1 glass of brandy ; 3 eggs, well beaten ; 2 oz. of sugar ; £ lb. of currants ; £ lb. of ox marrow, sliced; a little nut- meg ; a little candied peel. Method.—Pour the pint of boil- ing milk on the crumb of the penny loaf ; add the other ingre- dients, mix well, and either boil or bake it. Put a little candied peel on the top. Maude’s Pudding. (.American.) Ingredients.—2 cupfuls of bread- crumbs, finely grated ; 2 cupfuls of chopped apples ; a handful of raisins, stoned and chopped ; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; f cupful of brown sugar; cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Method. —Butter a pudding- dish ; strew the bottom thickly with crumbs. On this spread a layer of chopped apples, sprinkle with raisins, small pieces of butter, and spice, and cover with sugar. More crumbs follow, then apple, and so on, until the dish is full. The top layer should be crumbs, and well buttered. Cover tightly, and bake until the apple juice bubbles through the crust and up at the sides, when brown on the grating of the oven. Send to table in the dish, and eat with butter and sugar, or pudding- sauce. This pudding costs less than an apple pie ; consumes one quarter of the time in making; goes twice as far in feeding a family, is more digestible, and more ‘ toothsome.’ Hew College Puddings. Ingredients.—6 yolks and 3 whites of eggs; 1 spoonful of flour; 4 spoonfuls of bread-crumbs; a little salt and nutmeg; sugar to taste ; 4 oz. of shred suet ; 4 oz. of currants, picked and washed. Method.—Beat well the six yolks and three whites, and mix them with the flour and bread- crumbs ; add a little salt and nut- meg, sugar to taste, the shred suet,112 PUDDINGS. and crumbs, and stir all well together. Make the batter into egg-shaped pieces with a spoon, and fry in very hot butter, or they may be baked in patty- pans. Oatmeal Pudding. Ingredients— 1 breakfast cup- ful of medium Scotch oatmeal; i lb. beef suet, chopped fine ; 1 large English onion, chopped; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the ingredients all together in a basin, and tie up firmly in a scalded cloth dredged with flour. Boil for two hours. The saucepan must be large enough to contain sufficient water to cook the pudding without having to add more. The pudding must be kept boiling. Parsnip Pudding. (German.) Ingredients.—3 parsnips (washed and scraped); a little butter; sugar and lemon to taste ; a small glass of brandy; 4 eggs; a few bread-crumbs. Method.—Boil the parsnips in milk till tender, mash them, then add the butter (warmed), sugar, lemon, eggs, well beaten, and the brandy, and mix all well together. Put it in a buttered dish, cover with bread-crumbs, lay a few lumps of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. The pudding can be put in a buttered mould and boiled, if preferred. Serve with pudding sauce. Plum Pudding (1). Ingredients.—2 lb. of raisins ; 1 lb. of currants; 1^- lb. of fine moist sugar; 2 lb. of bread- crumbs ; 4 oz. mixed candied peel; half a nutmeg ; vind of half a lemon ; ^ oz. of bitter almonds ; 1 dessertspoonful of egg powder ; J saltspoonful of salt ; 1 lb. of suet; 8 eggs; j pint of brandy; j lb. of flour ; a little milk. Method. — Stone and cut the raisins in halves, wash and dry the currants, chop the suet finely, grate the bread, and cut the can- died peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together. Beat and strain the eggs, and add them to the above. When well blended, add the milk, and lastly the brandy. Press the pudding into a well-buttered mould, tie down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil for nine hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. Plum Pudding (2). Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins ; 1^ lb. currants ; 1 lb. of beef suet; 2 lemons; 1 lb. of Demerara sugar ; l lb. of bread-crumbs ; ^ oz. of nutmeg ; 1 oz. of mixed spice; | oz. of sweet almonds ; 4 oz. of mixed candied peel; 8 eggs ; 1 glass of brandy. Method.—Stone and cut the raisins ; clean the currants ; grate down the bread into fine crumbs ; mince the suet very finely ; slice and chop the candied peel ; grate the nutmegs, also the rind off the lemons; and blanch and grate the almonds. Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly together, then add the eggs, the juice of the lemons, and the sherry ; stir well, press the pudding into a buttered mould, cover with a floured cloth, and boil for eight hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. Puddings in Haste. Ingredients.—Some shred suet; some bread-crumbs ; a handful of113 PUDDINGS. currants (cleaned); or a few stoned raisins; the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and 1 white ; a little grated lemon-peel. Method— Mix all the above ingredients to a stiffish paste; roll it in flour, and with two spoons make into small balls; have ready a pan of fast-boiling water, and drop them in ; when done they will rise to the top. Quaker’s Pudding. Ingredients,— 6 oz. suet; 6 oz. bread-crumbs ; 6 oz. pounded loaf sugar ; 2 oz. currants ; rind of 1 small lemon, juice of two; 2 eggs. Method — Chop the suet finely, and put into a basin with the bread-crumbs, sugar, and cleaned currants; mix all well together. Beat the eggs well, stir into the dry ingredients, and flavour with the lemon. Put the pudding into a greased mould or basin, tie over it a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Sweet sauce may be served with it. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. — Bread-crumbs ; raspberry jam; ^ teacupful of flour ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavour- ing of lemon or bitter almonds. Method, — Well butter a pie- dish and put into it a layer (a quarter of an inch thick) of bread- crumbs, cover this thickly with raspberry jam, then put another layer of crumbs. Make a custard of the remainder of the ingredi- ents and pour it gently on the pudding. Bake slowly until quite set. When cold, turn out on a glass dish, sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve. Rhubarb Pudding. Ingredients. — Suet-crust (see Pastry); rhubarb; peel of ^ lemon, grated ; a little sugar. Method.—Roll out the paste to about a quarter of an inch thick, line with it a well-buttered basin, reserving some paste for the lid ; wash, peel, and cut into small pieces enough rhubarb to fill the basin ; add the grated peel, and a very little sugar ; place the lid of paste on the top ; press the edges of the crust (previously wetted) firmly together; tie in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours, or longer, according to the size of the pudding. Baked Rhubarb and Custard Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of stewed rhubarb ; 1 pint of milk; 2 eggs ; | pint of bread-crumbs; 2 oz. sugar ; a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Put the stewed rhu- barb and the bread-crumbs in a basin and mix well together. Beat the eggs, stir in the milk and sugar, and add this cold custard to the rhubarb and bread-crumbs, mixing all well together. Butter a pie-dish, put in the mixture, smooth the top, and bake in a moderate oven till slightly browned, then take out the dish, grate a little nutmeg over the pudding, and put again in the oven till quite set. This is an excellent pudding for children, and any stewed fruit may be prepared in the same way. Rhubarb and Tapioca. Ingredients.—1 lb. of rhubarb ; \ lb. of tapioca ; £ teaspoonful of ground ginger; £ teaspoonfui 8PUDDINGS. 114 of buffer; a teaspoonful of boiling water. Method.—Soak tbe tapioca in water for a few minutes, then, having washed the rhubarb and cut it very small, mix it in a pot with the tapioca, adding the sugar, butter, and ginger. Stew the whole for half an hour, stirring frequently. Place it in a mould, and when it is cold, turn it out. Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; tablespoonfuls of rice ; sugar to taste ; a lump of butter. -Method.—Wash the rice and put it into a pudding dish ; add the sugar, milk, and the butter, and grate a little nutmeg over the top, it liked. Bake in a moderate oven for three hours or more, till the rice is quite tender. If eggs are used, let the rice simmer in the milk for about twenty minutes ; then, when it has slightly cooled, add the eggs, well beaten. Rice and Arrowroot Pudding. (To eat cold.) Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; £ oz. of isinglass ; 2 tablespoon - iuls of ground-rice ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of best arrowroot ; 2 oz. of whiter sugar ; flavouring of lemon or ratafia. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the isinglass, sugar, and a few drops of the essence ; when quite hot, pour it over the rice and arrowroot, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring continually; rinse a mould in cold water ; pour in the pudding; turn out when cold, pour custard over, and serve. Ground-Rice Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; sugar to taste ; 3 tablespoonfuls of ground-rice ; 3 or 4 eggs ; a few drops of essence of lemon, or any other flavouring; a little salt. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar ; when it boils, add the rice, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk, stir until thick ; allow it to cool a little, then mix in the eggs, well beaten, the flavouring, and salt. Pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. This pudding, with the addition of three more table- spoonfuls of rice, may be boiled instead of baked. Put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for one hour and a half. Roly-poly Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 6 oz. of suet; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 1 dessert spoonful of baking-powder; a little salt; ^ pint of milk and water, mixed. Method.—Mince the suet finely and rub it well into the flour, pre- viously mixed with the other dry ingredients. Make the whole into a stiff paste with the above pro- portion of milk and water, roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, roll up closely, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for three hours. Before serving, cut the pudding into thin slices and pour hot syrup over. Roly-poly Jam Pudding. Ingredients.—f lb. of suet-paste (see ‘ Pastry ’) ; | lb. of jam. Method.—Make a light suet- paste by recipe given, and roll out about half an inch thick. Put overPUDDINGS. 115 it a Layer of jam not reaching quite to the edge, roll the pudding up, and pinch the ends well to- gether. Flour a cloth, tie in the roly-poly, and boil for two hours. Sago Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk ; sugar to taste; the rind of £ lemon; 4 tablespoonfuls of sago ; 1 egg. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the lemon-peel and sugar. When it boils, take out the peel and add the sago, pre- viously well washed. Let it sim- mer until thick, stirring occasion- ally, then pour it into a buttered pudding-dish. When slightly cool, add the egg, well beaten., Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. The egg may be omitted ; or, if a richer pudding is desired, more eggs may be added. Sago with Apples. Ingredients.—1 cupful of sago ; 1 cupful of hot water; 4 or 5 apples ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar ; ir pint of cream, and a little cin- namon. Method.—Soak the sago in the hot water for ten minutes ; cut up the apples, and put them on to simmer gently in a breakfast cup- ful of water till soft, then add the sago, sugar, and cinnamon, and stew for seven or eight minutes. Serve with the cream. Steamed Sago Pudding. Ingredients.—1 large cupful of sago ; 1 pint milk ; 4 eggs ; sugar; essence of lemon. Method.—Steep the sago in the milk, and stir well till thoroughly mixed. Then beat up with sugar, 4 yolks, and essence of lemon. Whip the 4 whites half an hour before use. Then mix all together, put into a mould, and steam about half an hour in a pint of boiling water, being careful not to let the water touch the pudding. Serve with arrowroot sauce. Scrap Pudding. Ingredients. — f lb. any odd scraps of bread ; 1 pint of boiling water ; 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger; \teacupful of moist sugar; \ lb. of currants (washed and dried) ; 1 teacupful of milk ; some pieces of butter. Method.—Pour the boiling water over the bread. Let it stand till the water is cool, then press it well out, and mash the bread smooth with a spoon; add the ginger, sugar, currants, and milk ; mix all thoroughly together ; turn into a well-buttered dish ; flatten it down with the back of a spoon, place some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake a nice brown in a moderate oven. Semolina Pudding. Ingredients.—\\ pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; 3 tablespoonfuls of the best Italian semolina : a few drops of any flavouring ; 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar, then add the semolina, and stir over the fire till it becomes tolerably thick. Pour into a basin, and when cool mix in the eggs, well beaten, and the flavouring. Put the whole into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. Snow Pudding. Ingredients.—1 oz. of gelatine ; 5 oz. of loaf-sugar ; 3 eggs; 2 small or 1 large lemon ; 3 break- fast cupfuls of boiling water. Method.— Put the gelatine into a saucepan with the sugar and 8—2PUDDINGS. 116 boiling water, and let it dissolve on the stove. Strain the lemon- juice, and then the dissolved gela- tine, through muslin, into a large lined pan ; add the whites of the eggs, well beaten. Beat all to- gether into a thick cream, and pour into moulds. Half the quan- tity will fill a pint mould. Make a custard of the yolks of the eggs and \ pint of milk, and pour round the pudding when served. The pudding should remain in the mould over night, and be turned out next day when required. Sponge-Cake Pudding. (American.) Ingredients.—1 egg ; f large cup- ful of sugar; f large cupful of milk ; 1^ large cupful of hour; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter (melted) ; 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Method.—Mix together the flour, baking-powder, and sugar, add the egg (previously beaten), milk and butter ; stir till smooth ; put the mixture in four buttered soup- plates, and bake in a hot oven. When sufficiently cooked, pile on a dish, one on the top of the other, spreading preserve between each layer. Serve hot, with custard- sauce, in proportion of 1 egg to a large cupful of milk, sweetened. Do not boil. Sponge-Cake Pudding. Ingredients. — Some sponge- cake ; a little brandy; a few dried cherries ; 3 whole eggs, and 4 yolks ; pint of milk; sugar to taste ; a little nutmeg. Method.—Steep the sponge-cake in the brandy; butter a mould, and stick it over with the dried cherries. Put the cake in, and make a custard with the eggs, milk, sugar, and nutmeg; fill up the mould, and boil one hour. Serve with arrowroot and brandy- sauce. Suet Pudding. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 6 oz. of suet; a little salt; 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar; 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder ; milk and water. Method.—Chop the suet finely, and add to it the flour, salt, sugar, and baking-powder. Stir in with fork or spoon sufficient milk and water to make a thick batter. Put it in a buttered basin, and boil for three hours. To be served hot, with sifted sugar. Tapioca Pudding. Ingredients. — £ teacupful of tapioca ; 1 teacupful of boiling water ; a pinch of salt ; 1 table- spoonful of sugar ; a little flavour- ing ; 3 or 4 eggs ; 4 or 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk. Method.—Wash the tapioca well, and put it into a basin ; pour the boiling water over it, and add the sugar, salt, and flavouring. Let it soak for a little ; then stir in the yolks and whites of the eggs beaten separately, and last of all the boil- ing milk. Mix all well together, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Three Minutes’ Pudding. Ingredients. — 2 oz. of flour ; l£ oz. of castor sugar; 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; 2 eggs. Method.—Mix the flour, sugar, and baking-powder well together, adding, last of all, the eggs, well beaten. Bake for three minutes in a very hot oven.SWEETS, ETC. 117 Baked Treacle Pudding. Ingredients. — Puff- paste (see ‘ Pastry ’); some treacle, or golden syrup. Method.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with puff-paste ; cover it with treacle or golden syrup ; then place over it another layer of the paste. Proceed in this way till the dish is full. Let the top layer of paste be thicker than the others. Bake a light brown colour in a quick oven. Vermicelli Pudding. Ingredients.—3 oz. of vermicelli ; 1| pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; a few drops of any essence : 2 or 3 eggs. Method.—Soak the vermicelli in half a pint of the milk ; boil the other pint, with the sugar and flavouring and stir the vermicelli into it. Let the whole simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then pour into a buttered pudding- dish. When cool, mix in the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a moderate oven. Yorkshire Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. of flour ; a little salt ; 3 eggs ; 1 pint of milk. Method.—Put the flour into a basin writh the salt; add the eggs, well beaten ; then stir in the milk very gradually. Mix the whole into a very smooth batter, and pour into a shallow tin, previously well buttered. Bake under meat in the oven ; or bake for an hour, and then place the pudding for half an hour under a joint of beef roasting before the fire. When done, cut in squares, and serve on a hot folded napkin. Sweets, etc. Almond Cream. Ingredients.—1 quart cream or good milk, or half of each ; sugar and lemon flavouring to taste; rice- flour or corn-flour; orange-flower water; 2 bay-leaves; 12 sweet and 4 bitter almonds. Method.—Beat the almonds to a paste with a little orange-flower water, and put them, with the bay- leaves, sugar, and lemon-flavouring, to boil in the cream. Mix smoothly in a little milk enough rice-flour to thicken the above mixture, and stir it in. Boil for about ten minutes, then turn into a basin to cool. When cold, stir in a little lemon-juice, and put the cream into glasses. This cream may also be put to cool in a mould, and turned out when cold. It must then be made sufficiently thick. Apples with Cream. Ingredients.—Some apples ; the yolks of 4 eggs ; 1 spoonful of flour ; 1 pint of cream; a little sugar; 1 glass of madeira or sherry. Method.—Pare the apples, cut them in four, and, after having carefully taken out the cores, put them to stew with a little water and sugar in a saucepan. When they begin to fail, take them off the fire. In another pan put the yolks of the four eggs, the flour, cream, and sugar. Set the pan upon a slow fire, and keep stirring the cream continually, taking care it does not boil for fear of curdling it. When done enough, add the118 SWEETS, ETC. glass of madeira or sherry. Arrange the apples in a dish, and pour the sauce over. Apples and Custard. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of large apples ; 6 oz. of white sugar ; rind of £ lemon; \ pint of water ; 1 pint boiled custard (which see) ; a few sweet almonds. Method.—Peel, halve, and core the apples, and add them, with the lemon rind, to the sugar and water previously boiled for five minutes. Simmer gently until tender, being careful not to allow the apples to break, if possible. When done, place them neatly in the centre of a crystal dish ; pour a little of the juice over them, and the boiled custard round them. Blanch the almonds, cut them in halves, and stick them thickly all over the fruit. This makes a pretty and effective dish. Custard - powder may be used instead of eggs. Apple Fritters. Ingredients. — 2 eggs ; \ pint milk ; £ lb. flour ; apples. Method. — Make a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour. Peel the apples whole, cut in rather round slices, and stamp out the core with a cutter. Dip the slices into the batter, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. Drain on a hot dish, covered with blotting-paper, laying each piece by itself. Serve very hot, with powdered sugar. The flavour of the apples is im- proved if they are laid in a little sherry, mixed with sugar, for two or three hours. The batter should be made a few hours before use. Apple Jelly. Ingredients.—\ package of gela- tine ; 1 large cupful of sugar; 6 large, finely flavoured juicy apples; 1 lemon, the juice and half the grated rind ; a good pinch of cin- namon ; 1 cupful of cold water. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples into very cold water. Be- fore they can change colour, pack them closely in a glass or stone jar, with just sufficient water 'to cover them ; put on a loose lid, that the steam may not crack the jar, set in cold water almost up to the neck, bring to a boil, and cook until the apples are clear and very tender. Soak the gelatine for two hours in a cupful of cold water, add the lemon juice and peel, sugar and cinnamon. Strain and squeeze the apples over them, boiling hot ; stir to dissolve the gelatine, and pour into a three-fold thickness of flannel. Let it drip slowly, with- out pressing or shaking, and put into a wet mould. Serve with milk, cream, or cold boiled cus- tard. Apple Snow. Ingredients.—6 apples ; whites of 2 eggs ; 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Method. — Peel and grate the apples into the whites of the eggs which have previously been whipped to a stiff froth. Beat in the sugar lightly, and set in a cold place until wanted. Eat with crackers or cake. Apple Trifle. Ingredients. — 10 large apples ; rind of \ lemon ; 6 oz. pounded sugar ; \ pint milk ; £ pint whipped cream; 2 beaten eggs ; some whipped cream. Method.—Peel, core, and cut the apples into slices ; put them into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls119 SWEETS, ETC. of water, sugar, and minced rind. Boil all together until quite tender. Then pulp the apples through a sieve, and add more sugar, if required. Lay at the bottom of a dish in a thick layer. Stir together cream, milk, and eggs, with a little sugar, over the fire. Let the mixture thicken, but it must not reach boiling-point. When thick, take it off the fire, let it cool a little, and then pour it over the apples. Whip some more cream, with sugar, lemon-juice, etc., such as is always used for trifles, and heap it high over the custard. Apple Mdringue. Ingredients— 2 cupfuls of hot apple sauce, very smooth and good; 3 eggs ; ^ cupful of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of butter; 1 tea- spoonful of corn-flour ; 1 teaspoon- ful of nutmeg and cinnamon mixed ; bitter almond flavouring ; 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Method.—Stew the apples until quite soft ; beat them smooth with a spoon ; add the sugar, nut- meg and cinnamon, and stir in the corn-flour rubbed into the butter ; boil the whole for one minute, then take it off the fire and pour gradually upon the yolks of the eggs, which have been previously whisked thick and smooth. Beat all together for two minutes, then turn into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven ; draw to the oven-door and spread rapidly over the surface a meringue of the whites whipped stiff, and the powdered sugar, flavoured with bitter almonds. Shut up again and brown delicately. Serve cold, with or without cream. Arrowroot Blancmange Ingredients.—2 oz. of arrowroot; 1^- pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; a few drops of lemon flavouring; 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Method.—Put the arrowroot into a basin and mix it smooth with ^ pint of the cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it all the time ; add the sugar and essence, and stir the whole (in a saucepan) over a clear fire until quite thick ; then add the brandy, and pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out on a dish, and garnish with fruit or preserve. Or serve with boiled custard (which see) poured round it. Calfs-foot Jelly. Ingredients. — 4 calves’-feet ; 5 quarts water ; 4 lemons ; 1 pint of sherry ; 6 eggs ; white loaf sugar. Method.—Prepare, a day or two before wanted, a stock for the jelly, by boiling the calves’-f eet in the water till two-thirds have been wasted. Skim the stock, and measure off a quart ; set to cool, and skim again from all fat and sediment. When making the jelly, put this stock into a pan, sweeten- ing to taste, and flavouring with the juice of the lemons ; add also the sherry and beaten whites of the eggs. Break the shells of the eggs into the pan. Stir all together, then set on a clear fire without moving the jelly while it boils for a quarter of an hour. Then put in a little cold water, boil up, and leave on for five minutes. Put the pan away to cool for twenty minutes, skim thoroughly, pour the jelly into a flannel bag and strain. Repeat this process if notSWEETS, ETC. 120 quite clear. Pour into moulds which have been standing in water. Coffee Cream. Ingredients. — 1 calf’s-foot ; 1 teacupful of very strong coffee ; a little isinglass ; 1 pint of good cream ; sugar to taste. Method.—Boil the calf’s-foot in a quart of water till it reduces to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat; make a teacupful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass that it may be perfectly bright; pour it on the jelly, and add the pint of cream ; sweeten to taste ; give it one boil up, and pour it into your mould. Cream Snow. Ingredients.—1 pint sweet cream; 8 teaspoonfuls white sugar ; whites of 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon. Method.—Mix the cream with the other ingredients, whip it, and take off the froth as it rises. It can be used for ornamenting other dishes, or placed in a wetted mould, and turned out in a dish when ready. Boiled Custard. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk ; 5 eggs, or the yolks of 6 eggs; 1| tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; a little lemon, almond or vanilla flavouring. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar, and when it has cooled a little, add it to the eggs (previously well beaten), stirring all the time. Strain the mixture into a jug, which place in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire. Keep stirring the custard gently one way, without ceasing, until it begins to thicken; then move the spoon more quickly, letting it always touch the bottom of the jug, until the mixture is brought to the point of boiling, when it must be taken off the fire at once or.it will curdle in a moment Stir occasionally while cooling. Corn-Flour Blanc Mange. {American Recipe.) . Ingredients.—4 large tablespoon- fuls of corn-flour mixed smooth in 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; 2 eggs, whipped light; 1 quart of milk ; 1 cup of sugar; ^ teaspoonful of salt | bit of soda the size of a pea dissolved with the salt in the milk ; a few drops of vanilla or bitter almond. Method.—Boil the milk with the salt and soda ; add the sugar, and when this is melted, stir in the wet corn-flour ; keep stirring over the fire until thick, then take out a cupful and beat into the whipped eggs ; return this to the saucepan, add the essence, cook one minute longer, stirring all the time, and pour into moulds previously dipped in cold water. When cold, turn out on a dish, and serve with jam, stewed fruit, milk or cream. Eggs and soda may be omitted, if liked. Dutch Cream. Ingredients. — The yollss of 10 eggs ; 4 glasses of white wine ; a little cinnamon and lemon-peel; \ oz. of isinglass; 1 pint of cream. Method.—Put the yolks of the eggs into a stewpan with the wine, cinnamon, and lemon-peel; stir over a slow fire till it becomes thick ; have ready melted the £ ounce of isinglass, and the cream well whipped. Mix the isinglass and eggs together, and stir them round until quite cold; then add theSWEETS, ETC. 121 cream, and put the whole in a mould to set on the ice or in a cool place. Floating Island (1). Ingredients. — 3 eggs ; 3 table- spoonfuls of strawberry or rasp- berry jam ; some thick cream. Method — Mix the whites of the eggs and the jam together, and whisk for an hour. Place on a glass dish with the cream round it. Floating Island (2). Ingredients.—3 eggs ; 1 teaspoon- ful of corn-flour ; milk ; sugar ; and a few drops of essence of almonds. Method. — Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Beat the whites well and put them, one at a time, into a pint of boiling milk and poach for a few seconds, then take them out. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk and stir into the boiling milk ; then add the yolks of the eggs (well beaten), sugar, and essence of almonds. Pour the custard into a crystal dish, and arrange the whites over it. Serve cold. Gateau de Pommes. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fine sugar ; 1 lb. of apples ; some lemon-peel; the juice of 1 lemon. Method.— Boil the sugar to a syrup ; add it to the apples, peeled and cored ; put in a little lemon- peel and the lemon-juice, and boil the whole over a slow fire in a saucepan, without a lid on it, till the apples fall and become smooth, and of proper consistency ; then put it in a mould, and serve cold, with burnt cream made as follows : Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon-peel in it, but no sugar. When cold, pour it over the gateau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. Gooseberry Fool. Ingredients.—2 lb. fresh goose- berries, well picked ; sugar; 1 pint water ; cream or custard. Method.—Put the fruit on with sugar and water, and boil till very soft. Strain through a colander, and stir into the pulp cream or custard to the quantity desired. Italian Cream. Ingredients. — 1 pint of thick fresh cream ; ^ handful of fine sugar ; the juice of ^ lemon ; 3 tablespoonfuls of madeira ; ^ oz. of isinglass. Method.—Whip the cream well, and add to it the fine sugar, the lemon-juice, and madeira. Dis- solve the isinglass in a little water, strain it into the cream, and put into a mould. A little less isin- glass in winter will be sufficient. Lemon Cheesecake. Ingredients.—4 eggs ; £ lb. of butter ; £ lb. of sugar ; the juice and rind of 2 lemons. Method.—Break the lumps of sugar, put them into a jar, and strain the juice of the lemons over them; add the eggs when they have been well beaten, and the finely grated rind of the lemons. Put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and keep stirring the mixture one way till it is of the consistency of honey. When cold, cover closely, and keep in a dry place. When wanted for cheesecakes, the addition of a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, is an improvement. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste, and fillSWEETS; AT<7. 122 them about three-quarters full of the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Lemon Cream. Ingredients.—1 quart of cream just on the turn ; 2 lemons ; sugar to taste. Method.—Rasp the rinds of the two lemons, and squeeze their juice into the cream ; whip with a whisk always the same way for about twenty minutes ; take a sieve, on which lay a piece of fine muslin large enough to contain the whipped cream ; pour the cream on to it ; place the sieve on a hollow dish that the whey may run off, and let it stand twenty-four hours. You can sweeten it to taste while whipping. Lemon Custards. Ingredients. — 6 eggs ; 1 pint cream ; juice and grated peel of 2 lemons ; sugar; 1 wineglassful sherry. Method.—Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and into them stir the boiling cream and lemon-juice and rind. Put sugar to taste, and set over the fire to thicken. Do not let it quite boil, or it will curdle. When almost done, stir into the custard 1 glass of sherry. Turn out, stir till nearly cool, and serve in glass cups or dishes, with nut- meg grated over. Omelette Souffld. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 oz. of castor sugar ; 1 oz. of butter ; a few drops of any essence preferred. Method.—Put the yolks of the two eggs into a basin with the sugar, and beat them for six minutes ; add the flavouring. Whisk the whites to a stiff jelly, and mix them lightly with the yolks. Have ready the butter dis- solved in the omelette-pan, pour in the eggs, hold the pan over a slow fire for two minutes, then put it into a quick oven and bake for four minutes, till the omelette has risen. Turn the omelette on to a hot dish, fold it, sift sugar over, and serve instantly. Pancakes. (.Family Recipe.) Ingredients.—Eggs; milk ; flour; salt. Method.— Allow one egg and one tablespoonful of flour to every tumbler of milk. Put the flour in a basin with a pinch of salt, and with a little cold milk, mix till quite smooth. Beat the eggs well, and stir them into the flour, then add the rest of the milk. The mixture should now have the con- sistency of rather a thin batter. Have ready a nice enamelled fry- ing-pan, and in it melt a small piece of butter. Put some of the batter into a cup, and pour into the pan enough to make a thin layer over it. Let the pancake 1 set ’ over the fire ; then, by fre- quent gentle shaking, prevent it from burning. If necessary, turn with a ‘ slice.’ When nicely browned on both sides, roll up the pancake in the pan and turn on to a hot dish. Put more butter into the pan, and proceed as before. Pancakes should be sent to table as soon as cooked, and should never stand. They are better made with- out flavouring, but should be served with fresh lemon-juice and pow- dered sugar. Baked Pears. Ingredients.—10 or 12 pears ; ^ lb. of loaf-sugar ; 6 cloves ; rind of 1 lemon ; 10 whole allspice ; a few drops of prepared cochineal.123 SWEETS, ETC. Method. — Peel and halve the pears, carefully remove the cores, and leave the stalks on ; put them in a baking-jar with a closely fitting lid, add the juice of half the lemon, and the rind cut in slices, the powdered allspice, cloves, cochineal, sugar in the above pro- portion, and just sufficient water to cover the whole. Bake for four or five hours in a cool oven. Serve cold on a glass dish. Pickwick Omelet. Ingredients.— 6 small sponge- cakes ; a little milk ; a wineglassful of sherry; 3 dessert-spoonfuls of strawberry or raspberry jam ; a small quantity of blancmange and custard ; a little nutmeg. Method. — Take a deep glass dish, and place at the foot a suffi- cient number of sponge-cakes to cover it. Moisten the cakes with a little milk and the sherry ; spread the jam on the top, pour over some blancmange, fill up with boiled custard (which see), and sprinkle over with nutmeg. The blanc- mange must be made much thinner than for a mould (little more than a tablespoonful to half-pint of milk), and must not be poured on the glass dish till slightly cooled. A few ratafias improves this dish. Poor Knights. (German.) Ingredients.—Some slices of roll or toasted bread ; a few bread- crumbs ; 2 eggs ; a little milk; powdered sugar, and cinnamon. Method.—Beat up one of the eggs along with a little milk and sugar ; and pour, very gradually, over the slices of roll or toast, enough to soak them ; dip in egg and bread - crumbs, and fry a nice pale brown on both sides. Sprinkle sugar and powdered cin- namon over them when done, and serve very hot. Without the sugar they are exceedingly good with spinach, etc. Prince of Wales Omelet. Ingredients.—1 quart of custard ; 3 tablespoonfuls of marmalade ; a few * ratafias ; a little sherry or brandy. Method. — Spread a layer of marmalade over the foot of a but- tered dish, fill up with custard, and put all over the top ratafias soaked in sherry or brandy. Bake till the custard is set. Rice Fritters. Ingredients.—} lb. of ground rice ; a little milk ; a bit of cinna- mon ; a laurel-leaf ; a small piece of lemon-peel; a little fresh butter; 2 oz. of sugar ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; flour ; bread-crumbs. Method.—Boil the rice tender in a very little milk, with the cinna- mon, laurel-leaf, and lemon-peel. When done enough, take out the seasoning. Grease a stew-pan with a little fresh butter, put in the rice, and stir into it the sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Work it well over the fire till it comes to a paste, then spread it on a well- floured board. When cool, throw a little flour on it, cut it in pieces, and roll into small balls on long- shaped rolls ; dip them lightly into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then roll them in very fine bread- crumbs ; do this a second time ; then fry them in very hot lard a good brown ; shake some powdered sugar over, and serve. Ground-Rice Blanc Mange. Ingredients.—4 oz. of ground- rice ; 2 pints of milk ; sugar to taste ; any flavouring preferred.SWEETS, ETC. 124 Method.—Mix the rice smooth with a little of the cold milk, then boil the remainder of the milk with the sugar and flavouring, and stir the rice into it. Boil gently for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a mould, pre- viously dipped in cold water. When quite set (it should be allowed to stand over-night, if pos- sible), turn out on a dish, and garnish with preserve or stewed fruit. Rice Pancakes. Ingredients.—4 oz. rice-flour ; 1 quart of milk ; £ lb. of sugar ; 4 oz. flour ; 8 eggs ; salt. Method.—Put the rice-flour on to boil in the milk till well thickened ; then stir in the sugar. Mix to- gether the flour and beaten eggs with a pinch of salt, and add to the rice when cold. Fry this batter like pancakes, and serve with melted butter, sweet sauce, or sugar and lemon-juice. Rice Snowballs. Ingredients.—f lb. of rice ; rind of 1 lemon ; 7 or 8 small apples ; sugar ; cloves. Method. — Pare and core the apples, and push into the holes sugar and 2 or 3 cloves. Boil the rice, with sugar to taste, and fla- vouring of the lemon-rind, and when tender, take it out, drain it, and roll it round the apples. Tie up in small cloths separately, boil for one hour, and serve with custard. If eggs are added to the rice, and it be boiled in milk, it can be put into small cups till cold, turned out, and served with pieces of jelly on each ball. This is a good dish for children. Semolina Blanc Mange. Ingredients.—l?r oz. of the best Italian semolina ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 oz. of loaf-sugar ; the yolk of* 1 egg ; a few drops of lemon or other flavouring. Method.—Soak the semolina in a quarter of a pint of the milk for ten minutes, then stir it into the remainder of the milk, which must be boiling ; add the sugar, and stir the whole over a clear fire for twenty minutes. Then take it off, and mix in quickly the yolk of the eggs, beaten up with the flavouring. Pour into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. When quite firm turn out, and serve with cream, preserve, stewed fruit, or custard. Spanish Cream. Ingredients.—1 oz. gelatine ; 3 pints milk ; 6 eggs ; 8 tablespoon- fuls of sugar. Method.—Soak gelatine in the milk for an hour, and then let it come to the boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, and stir into the gelatine. Let it simmer ; then take it off the fire, and pour over it the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth. Flavour with lemon or vanilla extract. Strawberry Souffle. Ingredients. — 3 penny sponge cakes ; a little port wine ; straw- berry jam ; 4 eggs ; 1 pint of milk; pink sugar. Method.—Put the sponge cakes in a glass dish, moisten them with wine, and spread a layer of straw- berry jam on the top. Make a custard with the yolks of the four eggs and the pint of milk; when it has cooled a little pour it over the cakes ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, pile them high on the dish, sprinkle with pink sugar, and serve cold.125 SWEETS, ETC. Sweet Omelet. Make a batter as directed for pancakes, but rather thicker, using less milk. Pour about 2 teacup- fuls into the pan (enough to be about one-third of an inch thick); fry as a pancake, but longer, and turn out flat on a hot plate. Spread over a layer of preserve, and serve very hot. Trifle. Ingredients.—1 quart good cream; 3 wineglassfuls sherry or other wine ; 6 oz. powdered sugar ; lemons, jam ; 6 sponge cakes, ratafia biscuits ; sweet almonds ; custard ; 2 eggs; small candied fruits. Method.—The night before the trifle is required, prepare the ‘ whip ’ as follows : Put into a large basin the whites of eggs, well beaten (the yolks can be used in % the custard), the cream, sugar, 1 glassful of sherry, and juice of 1 or 2 lemons, as liked. Whisk these ingredients well, and when formed into a stiff froth, put to drain on a hair sieve. In the morn- ing, put into a large deep glass dish 6 sponge cakes, and soak them with sherry ; put here and there about them a few ratafias and sweet almonds which have been blanched and split. Over these spread a layer of jam or jelly. Place over this a good custard, about two inches deep, and then heap in the form of a pyramid the whipped cream, and garnish with candied fruits. Velvet Cream. Ingredients.—2 or 3 spoonfuls of lemon, orange, or pineapple syrup; some new milk ; a little rennet. Method.—Put two or three spoonfuls of any of the above syrups in the bottom of a dish ; heat some new milk lukewarm ; pour it on the syrup ; put in as much rennet as will set it, and cover it over till ready. Victoria Sandwiches. Ingredients.—The weight of 2 eggs in flour, castor sugar, and butter; 1 teaspoonful or baking powder ; 2 eggs ; any kind of jam ! or marmalade. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the flour by degrees; then add the sugar, baking-powder, and eggs, well whisked. Beat all together lightly for some minutes ; pour the batter into a buttered tin. and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Allow it to cool a little, then cut the cake through the centre, spread it with preserve, press the two sides slightly to- gether, and cut into long sand- wiches, which arrange in cross bars on a glass dish, and serve. Cakes, Scones, etc. In making confectionery, the first requisite of success is that the in- gredients should be of the best, as well as thoroughly fresh and dry. Eggs should always be thoroughly well whisked, and the mixing of the materials should also be done with care. Yeast should, when bitter, be used sparingly, and the sponge should be left twice the usual time to rise. For light cakes, a brisk oven is the best; for large rich ones,126 CAKESi SCONES, ETC. a sustained heat is necessary ; for small sugar cakes, a slow oven is desirable. Gingerbread should be gently baked. To test whether a cake is done, put a knife into it, and if the blade comes out clean, the cake is ready ; if the blade comes out otherwise, the baking must be continued. In baking bread, a brick oven, heated by wood, is, on economical grounds, preferable to an iron oven heated by coal. The flour should, if possible, be obtained direct from a miller, and should be of the best, though ‘ best seconds ’ is often used with good results. It should be of hard, rather than soft, wheat, and should be kept in a place which is at once warm and dry. In any case, it should be warmed and dried before being used. ‘ Great cleanliness is required for making bread—a clean trough or brown earthenware pan ; very clean hands and arms.’ Do not put in too little yeast and too little water ; and do not allow the dough to get cold before it is finished. It cannot be too thoroughly kneaded. Bread baked in tins is lighter than loaves made in the ordinary way. Bread Cake. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the best flour ; \ lb. of moist sugar ; 1 oz. of caraway-seeds ; 2 eggs ; \ lb. of butter; 1 pint of milk ; 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. Method.—Let it rise like ordinary bread, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven. Currants may be substituted for the caraway-seeds, if desired. Cake. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour ; 6 oz. of butter ; 6 oz. of sugar ; ^ lb. of raisins ; 3 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; \ lb. of citron ; 3 eggs ; £ pint of milk ; and a pinch of salt. Method.—Work the flour and butter well together, add the baking- powder, salt, sugar, raisins (stoned), and the citron, cut very fine. Mix well, and moisten with the eggs, well beaten, and the milk. Bake in a tin, in a moderate oven, for an hour and a half or two hours. Cornflour Cakes. Ingredients.—3 oz. of butter; \ lb. of powdered sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 table- spoonful of flour; £ lb. of cornflour; £ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in milk • ^ teaspoonful of tartaric acid. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and eggs, and beat all wTell together ; then mix in the flour, the dissolved soda, and tartaric acid. Bake in a well- greased tin for about three-quarters of an hour. Scotch Currant Bun. Ingredients.—1^ breakfast-cup- ful of flour ; \ lb. of butter (or dripping); \ teaspoonful of baking- powder ; 1 lb. of flour ; £ lb. of sugar ; 2 lb. large blue raisins ; 2 lb. currants ; J lb. of orange- peel ; j lb. of almonds ; \ oz. of ginger ; \ oz. of cinnamon ; oz' of Jamaica pepper ; \ teaspoonful of black pepper ; 1 small teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda; some milk. Method.—Take the three first in- gredients, and mix them with water till they make a firm paste. Roll this out thin, and, having greased the inside of a cake-pan, line it with the rolled-out paste, keeping back a piece (of the size of the pan) for the top of the bun. Then putCAKES, SCONES, ETC. 127 the remainder of the ingredients into a large basin, having previously stoned the raisins, and having also washed, dried, and picked the cur- rants thoroughly. Take care, too, that you put in only enough milk to moisten the whole, which should be mixed thoroughly with the hands. Next put the mixture in the lined tin, flatten it on the top, wet the edges of the lining, and then cover with the piece of paste reserved for the purpose. Prick the cover with a fork, brush a little egg over it, and bake for about two hours and a half. After Dinner Cakes. Ingredients.—2 well-beaten eggs ; their weight in flour, sugar, and salt butter ; a sprinkle of carbonate of soda, and a little flavouring. Method. — Beat the butter to a cream, then mix with the other ingredients. Place in buttered patty-pans, and bake in a rather hot oven for half an hour. Either sweet, or custard sauce, served with these cakes, is an improvement. (See ‘ Sauces.’) American Dough-Nuts. Ingredients.—6 oz. of flour; 1^ oz. of sugar ; 1^ oz. of butter ; 1 egg; 1 small pinch of salt ; \ gill of "milk, or water ; \ teaspoonful of baking- powder; 1 large tablespoonful of jam. Method.—Place in. a basin the flour, butter, and sugar ; mix well with the fingers, and when tho- roughly blended, add baking- powder, and mix with a spoon. Beat up on a plate the egg, add the milk, and mix with the above ingredients in a basin, stirring well. Flour a paste-board, turn out the mixture (which should be stiff), knead lightly, flour the board again, and roll out the paste. Cut out into small rounds about one inch thick, put on half of them a little jam, and cover with the other halves. Fasten the sides lightly, without pressing. Drop the dough- nuts into heated butter or clarified fat, fry for three or four minutes till brown, keeping them well covered with fat. Drain the dough- nuts on blotting-paper, and cover with sifted sugar. Emily Tea Cakes. Ingredients.—f lb. of flour ; £ lb. good beef dripping ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking - powder; 2 oz. mixed candied peel ; \ lb. of currants ; 3 eggs ; 1 gill of milk. Method.—Rub the baking-powder well into the flour, taking care there are no lumps. Then rub in the dripping; add all the other ingredients. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately ; add the milk, and mix well. Pour on to the other ingredients, and mix all together with two forks. Bake in small patty-pans, or in a tin lined with buttered paper. This is an excellent cake for children, or every-day use. If baked in patty-pans, the cakes should, if kept, be heated before use. Fastnachts Krapfen. Ingredients.—1 pint of lukewarm milk; 6 oz. of butter; 2 oz. of sugar ; the yolks of 6 eggs ; 2 oz. of yeast; flour; some jelly or marmalade. Method.—Mix the milk, butter, sugar, eggs, and yeast, with as much flour as will make a paste, just stiff enough to roll out ; then, with a round cutter, cut out cakes about the diameter of an orange, and an inch and a half thick ; put them on a board in a warm place to rise.CAKES, SCONES, ETC. 128 and then fry them in hot lard from five to ten minutes, so that they may acquire a nice brown colour ; drain them on blotting-paper to free them from fat, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve very hot. It is usual, before they rise, to open them and introduce a spoonful of jelly or marmalade, and to glaze the outside with egg. This cake is very good. It is eaten in G-ermany on Shrove Tuesday, as pancakes are in England. Fruit Cake. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter (or half lard may be used) ; 6 oz. of sugar ; 2^ teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; f lb. of sultana raisins ; 2 oz. of blanched almonds, chopped; 1 teacupful of milk ; f lb. of flour ; ^ lb. of rice-flour ; 2 eggs. Method.—Beat up the butter to a cream, add the eggs (beaten with the sugar), then the flour, baking- powder, and other ingredients. Mix thoroughly. Put the mixture into a well-buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Sufficient for two small cakes. Gingerbread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 2 teacupfuls of syrup ; 1^ teacupful (or rather less) of brown sugar ; ± lb. of butter ; 1 oz. ground ginger ; ± oz. ground cinnamon; 2 tea- spoonfuls of carbonate of soda ; 1 teacupful of butter-milk ; 2 eggs, well beaten. Method.—Put the syrup, sugar, butter, ginger, and cinnamon into a basin, stir all together, and place before the fire till melted. Mix the soda with the flour ; pour in the other ingredients, and mix the whole together with the butter- milk, then add the eggs. If butter- milk cannot be had, sour milk will do as well. Put in a buttered tin, and bake till done. When cold cut into small squares. Gingerbread Cake. Ingredients.—lb. of flour ; ^ lb. of sugar ^ lb. of butter; ^ lb. of treacle; 2 eggs; 1 heaped teaspoon- ful ground ginger ; a few almonds. Method.—Put the treacle, sugar, and butter into a pan, and place it on the stove to melt. Put the flour and ginger into a basin. Beat up the eggs, blanch and cut the almonds, and add to them the melted ingredients. Mix well with the flour, and bake in a buttered tin for one hour and a half. Honey Cakes. (German.) Ingredients.—^ lb. of honey ; \ lb. of flour ; 2 oz. of butter ; 2 oz. of pounded almonds ; h drachm of pounded cloves ; the grated peel of half a lemon ; ^ lb. of carbonate of soda, dissolved in water. Method. — Put the honey and butter into a saucepan, and let them come to a boil over the fire ; take the saucepan off and allow it to stand for a few minutes, then stir in, very gradually, the flour and other ingredients, putting in the soda last of all. Let the whole remain in a cool place over-night. In the morning, roll out the paste about half an inch thick, cut it into little square or round cakes, and ornament each cake with blanched almonds and lemon-peel. Bake, till a pale brown, in a mode- rate oven. Huckleberry Cake. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—3 eggs; £ cupful of butter; 1 cupful of sugar; £ cupful of milk ; 2 small cupfuls of pre- pared flour; 2 cupfuls of ripe berries, well dredged with flour129 CAKES, SCONES\ ETC. (washed and picked over carefully, and drained dry before dredging); £ teaspoonful of mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. Method. — Beat up the butter with the sugar to a cream; then beat in the yolks, the milk, the spice, the flour, and the whipped whites alternately; finally, add the berries. Mix them in thoroughly, but cautiously. They should not be mashed or broken. Bake longer than plain cake, covering with clean paper should it rise too fast. Test with a straw, to see if it is done. Wrap in a clean thick cloth, and do not cut it until perfectly cold. It is better not to use it the day it is baked. Icing for Cakes. Ingredients.—1| lb. icing sugar; whites of 2 eggs. Method.—Cut the cake quite even on the top ; and put it on a basin turned upside down. In another basin put the sugar and whites of eggs, and beat with a spoon till a stiff froth. Dip a knife in cold water, spread a spoonful of the froth thinly over the cake ; put on another layer, and stand aside to get stiff. Make some ‘ pokes ’ of rather stiff paper, pour in a spoonful of icing, and with the thumb force it through the bottom of the poke, tracing patterns on the cake. Oatmeal Cakes. Ingredients. — Medium - sized Scotch oatmeal ; cold water; salt. Method.—Only enough dough for one cake should be made at a time. Knead it as quickly as possible, and roll out the cake very thin, to about an eighth of an inch ; trim round the edge, cut into four sec- tions, and bake on the girdle or hot plate over the fire. When it is sufficiently stiff to bear its own weight, lift it on to a toaster be- fore the fire in order to slightly brown the upper side. Made thus, the cakes will be sweet, crisp, and wholesome. Made with warm water, fat, or carbonate of soda, they will be tough and indigest- ible. As little water as possible should be used in making the dough. Keep the cakes in a dry place. Should they lose their crisp- ness, place them in the oven for a few minutes before they are wanted for table. They should be eaten cold with salt butter. One, Two, Three, Four Cake. Ingredients.—1 cup of butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 cups of flour; 4 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Method. —Beat the butter to a cream; whisk the eggs well; and add to the other ingredients. Bake in a moderately quick oven. (See ‘ Cake Pudding.’) Parliament Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 1 lb. of butter; 1 lb. Demerara sugar ; i lb. ground ginger; 1 lb. golden syrup. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, and mix with it the sugar and ginger. Put the golden syrup to warm, melt the butter, add it to the syrup when boiling, and stir it into the dry ingredients. Roll out the paste rather more than quarter of an inch thick, divide into cakes, or mark the whole paste into squares, to be divided when baked. Plain Cake. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 tea- cupful of sugar; 3 oz. of butter; 1 teacupful of warm milk; ^ teacup- ful of golden syrup; 1 teaspoonful 9130 CAKES, SCONES, ETC. of ground ginger; 1 tesspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of vinegar; f lb. of currants ; 2 eggs. Method.—Mix first the dry in- gredients ; then add the butter, slightly warmed and beaten up, and the eggs well whisked. Dis- solve the soda, and add it last of all: mix all well together. Place in a buttered tin, protect with paper, and put immediately into a quick oven, which may then be allowed to cool. Bake for one hour and three-quarters. A Good Plum Cake. Ingredients.—f lb. currants; § lb. flour; \ lb. butter; ^ lb. sugar; 6 eggs ; 3 oz. candied peel; a few almonds; ^ pint of cream. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; and add the currants, sugar, minced candied peel, and finely cut almonds. Moisten this mixture with the eggs (well beaten) and the cream. Less cream may be used if the dough appears to be becoming too wet. Put the cake into a buttered tin ; set it before the fire to rise ; and then bake for one and a half to two hours, or till quite done. Devonshire Potato Cake. Ingredients.—6 oz. flour; 6 oz. well-boiled potatoes; £ lb. brown sugar ; ^ lb. currants ; 1 dessert- spoonful baking - powder ; ^ tea- spoonful carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful mixed spice; a few caraway-seeds ; 2 eggs ; 2 oz. good beef dripping. Method.—Beat the potatoes till perfectly free from lumps ; then rub them into the flour; after- wards add the other dry ingre- dients, excepting the currants and seeds, and rub the dripping in with them. This should be thoroughly done. Put in the currants and caraways ; add the eggs, well beaten, and stir well with a fork or spoon. Put into a flat tin, well greased ; bake in a pretty quick oven for three-quarters of an hour, protecting the top if necessary with greased paper. Serve the cake hot, cut into squares. German Pound Cake. Ingredients.—| lb. butter; 10 oz. of flour ; \ lb. of sugar ; 4 eggs ; the grated rind of 1 lemon ; 2 oz. of chopped candied peel; 3 oz. of currants (washed and dried) ; \ lb. of sultana raisins (stoned). Method.—Put the butter into a basin (a large one), and beat it to a cream; then mix in well a spoon- ful of flour, a spoonful of sugar, and a well-beaten egg. Proceed in this way until all the flour, sugar, and eggs are thoroughly blended together. Add the other ingre- dients, and put the mixture into a well-greased cake-tin lined with buttered paper. Bake in a mode- rate oven for about two hours. The currants and raisins may be omitted. Quality Cake. Ingredients.—2 eggs, their weight in flour, pounded loaf-sugar, and butter; \ teaspoonful of lemon essence; and a few caraway-seeds. Method.—Mix butter, sugar, and flour; then add eggs well beaten, essence, and seeds. Line a tin with paper buttered on both sides, and standing up above the edge of the tin; then pour in the mixture, and bake for one hour. Queen Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 lb. of butter; 1 lb. of castor-sugar; £ lb. of currants; 8 eggs; a little nutmeg and cinnamon.131 CAKES, SCONES, ETC. Method.—Work the butter to a cream; add to it the sugar and the whites of the eggs whisked for twenty minutes ; beat the yolks also for twenty minutes. Mix all thoroughly together. Then add the flour, and the currants (well washed and dried), and sufficient nutmeg and cinnamon. Put por- tions of this mixture into heart- shaped tins; sprinkle sugar over them; and bake in a moderate oven. Pice Cakes. Ingredients.—5 yolks of eggs, and 1 white ; \ lb. of castor-sugar ; a little ground cinnamon ; £ oz. of sweet almonds ; 4 bitter almonds; £ lb. of ground rice ; a large wine- glassful of brandy ; ^ lb. of fresh butter. Method.—Beat up the eggs, sugar, and cinnamon well together; pound in a mortar the sweet and bitter almonds, and while pounding add by degrees the eggs, etc. When sufficiently mixed, it should look like thick cream. Add to the mix- ture the ground rice, brandy, and fresh butter melted. Beat the whole well, pour into buttered patty-pans, and bake about a quar- ter of an hour. Plain Rock Cakes. Ingredients. — 4 tablespoonfuls of flour; 2 oz. of butter or lard ; 2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of raisins (stoned) ; 1 oz. chopped candied peel; 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder; 1 egg; lemon or cinnamon flavouring. Method.—Rub the butter or lard into the flour; add the baking- powder and other ingredients. Beat up the egg, and mix in tho- roughly, with as much milk as will make a stiff paste ; place in little high rough heaps, on a greased tin; and bake in a very quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Seed Cake. (Good Family Recipe.) Ingredients.—f lb. of flour; 6 oz. of sugar; 6 oz. of butter ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of baking-powder ; £ teaspoonful of ginger; 1 dessert- spoonful of mixed spice; 3 eggs. Method.—Rub the butter into the dry materials, and moisten with the beaten eggs, and enough milk to render the dough spongy. Bake in a tin, in a moderate oven. Scotch Shortbread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 6 oz. powdered sugar ; ^ lb. mixed can- died peel; 2 oz. sweet almonds; 1 f lb. butter ; caraway-comfits. Method.—Rub 1 lb. of butter into the flour ; melt the other £ lb., and mix with the rubbed butter and flour. Knead lightly and roll on a board, letting the paste be about one inch thick and taking any shape preferred. Pinch the cakes round the edges, and ornament them with candied peel, comfits, and almonds blanched and slit. Prick the cakes over with a fork, and bake on thick greased paper. Little Short-Cakes. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of dried flour; 4 oz. of butter; 4 oz. of pounded sugar; 1 egg; 1 or 2 spoonfuls of thin cream. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; then add the sugar and eggs, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste ; roll out thin, and cut with a wine-glass into round cakes. Currants or caraways may be added to them if liked. Shrewsbury Cakes. Ingredients. — § lb. of butter ; \ lb. of castor-sugar ; 2 eggs ; 1 lb.CAKESi SCONES, ETC. 132 of flour ; i oz. of caraway-seeds ; 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder ; a little milk. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, stir in the flour, seeds, and baking-powder, and mix with suffi- cient milk to make the whole into a stiff dough. Knead well, roll out, and cut into little round cakes. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Sfnging Hinnies. (Tea Cakes.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of fine flour ; 1 breakfast-cupful of cornflour; 8 oz. of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice, or a few drops of essence of lemon ; a little salt; If gill of cold water. Method.—Rub half the butter into the flour, add the salt, the essence, the egg well beaten, and the water. Mix all well together, and roll out into a paste. Place a third of the remaining butter in the centre, dredge it with flour, fold the dough over it, and roll out again. Do this three times, until all the butter is used. Cut into round cakes about half an inch thick, and bake, till a light brown, in a moderate oven. When done, split and butter them. Pile several together on a muffin-dish, and serve very hot. Sponge Cake. Ingredients. — 1 teacupful of flour ; 1 teacupful of sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid. Method.—Beat the eggs well, mix all the ingredients together, place in a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake immediately in a quick oven. (See ‘ Cake Pudding.’) Tea Cakes. Ingredients. — 2 lb. of flour; If lb. of sugar ; 6 oz. of butter or lard; 5 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder ; 2 eggs ; and a little milk. Method.—Rub the butter or lard well into the flour, add the sugar and baking-powder, then moisten with the eggs well beaten, and a little milk. Make into nice round cakes, place them on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven, on the shelf, for about twenty minutes. When done, cut them open at once and butter them, and serve very hot. Tipsy Cake. Ingredients. — 10 oz. of flour ; If lb. of currants ; \ lb. of butter ; f lb. (and a dessert-spoonful over) of coarse brown sugar ; f lb. of citron ; 5 eggs ; rather less than a wine-glassful of brandy. Method. — Wash and dry the currants thoroughly, and mix them in a basin with the flour. Beat the butter to a cream, and add f lb. of the sugar, drop the eggs into this, one by one, then stir in, very gradually, the flour and currants. Next add a portion of the citron, cut into small pieces. Last of all, burn about a dessert-spoonful of the brown sugar, melt it in the brandy, pour into the cake, and mix all well together. Ornament the top of the cake with the re- mainder of the citron, and bake from one hour and a half to two hours in a moderate oven Wedding Cake. Ingredients.—2 lb. best sultanas ; 3 lb. currants ; If lb. powdered white sugar ; 12 eggs ; If lb. fresh butter ; If lb. flour ; 1 gill noyeau; 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water; 1 lb. candied peel.133 CAKES; SCONES, ETC. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually add the sugar, and yolks of eggs (one at a time) ; then put in the flour, noyeau, and orange-flower water. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and add to the mixture. Thoroughly beat the whole with the hand, and then put in the fruit. Butter a tin, line it with three thicknesses of buttered paper, pour in the cake, and bake for five hours in a mode- rate oven. Almond Iceing for above. Ingredients. — 1 lb. Jordan al- monds ; 3 lb. white powdered sugar ; 1 lemon ; white of one egg. Method. — Blanch the almonds, soak them for twelve hours in cold water, chop them small, pound them in a mortar, and then mix gradually with the white of the egg, lemon-juice, and sugar. Spread it over the cake, and let it stand three days. Then put on the sugar iceing, as below. Sugar Iceing. Ingredients.—4 eggs ; 2 lemons ; 3 lb. sifted sugar. Method.—Add together whites of eggs, lemon-juice, and sugar. Work the whole with a wooden spoon, and spread over the cake. Let it dry in a warm place, but do not put it in the oven. Yorkshire Tea Cakes. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 6 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. of German yeast; 2 eggs ; a pinch of salt; | pint of lukewarm water ; some lukewarm milk. Method.—Put the flour, with a pinch of salt, into a basin, then with a spoon hollow out the middle of the flour, and pour into it the yeast dissolved in the lukewarm water ; stir into the yeast as much of the flour round about it as will make a thin batter free from lumps, cover with a clean cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, add the eggs, well beaten, with enough lukewarm milk to make the whole into a smooth paste, which must be well kneaded. Cover, and let it rise again for a while. Then divide the dough into ten pieces, roll each piece to the size of a saucer, place them on floured tins, allow them to rise once more for a few minutes before baking them, prick with a fork, and bake for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. When done, the cakes should be opened and buttered, and served very hot. When stale, they are very nice split and toasted. Buns. Ingredients.—£lb. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour ; 2 eggs ; ^ pint new milk ; i lb. of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of yeast. Method.—Mix the butter with the flour ; beat up the eggs in the milk, and add the sugar and yeast; stir this into the flour, and work all well together; drop the mixture out of a large spoon on io tin plates, and when it has risen, bske. This quantity should be sufficient to make eight buns. Cookies. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—§ cupful of butter ; 1 cupful of sugar ; 1 egg ; £ cupful of sour milk or butter-milk ; § tea- spoonful of soda, sifted three times through 2 cupfuls of flour : £ tea- spoonful of nutmeg. Method. — Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, using powdered sugar, if possible. Beat up the cream well with the egg ; add milkCAKES, SCONES, ETC. 134 .md spice, and, finally, the sifted flour. Roll into a thin paste, cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Dropped Scones. Ingredients. — 2 teacupfuls of flour ; 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; 2 teacupfuls of buttermilk. Method.—Put the flour in a basin and mix with it the soda (previously ground fine), the sugar, and tartaric acid. Next add, very gradually, the buttermilk, beating all well with the back of a spoon. Have ready the hot griddle, rub a piece of butter or suet over it, and drop spoonfuls of the mixture neatly on to it. When bubbles rise on the top of the scones, turn them*, and fry a delicate brown. Eliza Tea Scones. Ingredients. — 3 tumblerfuls of flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar ; 1 small teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda (dissolved in hot water) ; 1 tumblerful of milk ; a small lump of butter ; and a little salt. A few currants can be added, if liked. Method. — Mix all the dry in- gredients thoroughly, then add the milk. Roll out the paste, and cut into round scones with a tumbler. Place on a tin, and bake for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. Ginger Snaps. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—2| cupfuls of flour; | cupful of lard ; £ cupful of butter ; 1 cupful of sugar; f cupful of treacle ; | cupful of water; 1 even tablespoonful of ginger, and half as much cinnamon: 1 even tea- spoonful of soda, sifted three times with the flour. Method.—Warm the sugar, butter, and lard, until you can whip them to a light-brown cream ; beat in the spices and water, and, last of all, add the flour. If the dough is not stiff enough to roll out, add flour as necessary. Roll into a thin paste, cut into small cakes, and bake quickly. The snaps keep long, and are excellent. Hot Cross Buns. Ingredients.—6 oz. butter; 2 lb. of fine flour; a pinch of salt; 2 eggs, well beaten ; 1 pint of warm milk ; 1 oz. of German yeast; 1 lb. of sugar ; ~ lb. of currants ; ~ a nut- meg, grated ; £ lb. of powdered mace. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the salt, eggs, warm milk and yeast, and knead the mixture well; cover with a cloth, and set it on the hearth to rise ; when it is quite light, and the sur- face has cracked, work into it the sugar, currants, nutmeg and mace. Again set the dough on the hearth to rise until light, then roll it out, cut into buns, make a cross on each, brush over with butter, and let them stand in a warmed, well- buttered tin before the fire for fifteen minutes. Sift a little sugar over each bun, and bake (without turning them) in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sweet-milk Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 1 egg ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder; \ teaspooful of carbonate of soda; \ teaspoonful of cream of tartar; a little milk. Method.—Mix the dry ingre- dients in a basin with the egg (previously well beaten), and135 CAKESi SCONES, Jm7. enough milk to make a light dough. Turn out on a board, and roll at once. Cut into small three- cornered scones, and bake in a rather quick oven, on the shelf’ Serve hot, cut through and but- tered. Pikelets. Ingredients.—1| lb. flour ; If pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 dessert- spoonful (or more) of baking- powder; a little sugar; a pinch of salt. Method.—Mix the dry ingre- dients with the milk and beaten eggs; beat all together well; divide into cakes; and cook on a girdle. When done, butter the pikelets, and serve hot. Sally Lunns. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour; 2 oz. of butter; 1 oz. of sugar; 4 table- spoonfuls of yeast; a little warm water; 1 gill of cream and some milk (or all milk, if new, will do); the yolks of 4 eggs. Method.—Rub the flour, butter, and sugar well together. Mix the yeast with a little warm water, and set it to rise. When it has risen a little, beat up with it the cream and milk (or all milk, if new) and the yolks of the eggs. Warm this a little; add to it the dough, and work it all together ; the dough must not be quite so stiff as bread dough. Mould it into small round cakes; lay them on an iron baking- plate to rise, in a warm place; bake them for about an hour in not too hot an oven. They are eaten cut open and buttered. After they are buttered, they should be closed and returned to the oven for a minute or two. Scotch Scones. Ingredients,—1 f lb, of flour; 1 tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 teaspoonful (or rather more) of cream of tartar ; a little butter- milk. Method.—Mix the carbonate of soda well with a little flour before adding it to the other ingredients, otherwise it is apt to spot the scones. Stir all together, and make into a dough with the buttermilk. Place the dough on a floured board, and with the hand make it into a long shape like a large sausage ; divide this into three parts ; roll out each part once, thick and round, and cut into four scones. Lay these on the oven-shelf, which must be rather hot, and bake for a quarter of an hour. These scones are easily made, and when done should be pure white, and as light as a feather. Tea Rolls. (German.) Ingredients.—1|- lb. of flour; 6 oz. of butter; 2 oz. of powdered sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast; 3 eggs ; 1 cupful of lukewarm milk. Method.—Put the flour in a pan, and set it on the stove to warm. Slightly heat the butter, and mix it with the sugar, yeast, the whole of 1 egg well beaten, the yolks of the other 2, and the milk. Pour this mixture very gradually into the flour, carefully beating it all the time with a spoon till the dough is thin enough to drop from it without any adhering. More milk must be added if necessary. Beat long and thoroughly. Now take the dough, a spoonful at a time, and form it into little oval rolls, pointed at each end, and not more than an inch thick in the centre. Butter a tin, and lay the136 CAKES; SCONES, ETC. rolls on it, leaving two inches space between each one. Let them re- main about an hour in a warm place ta rise ; then brush them over with the whites of the eggs beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of sugar ; sprinkle over the whole finely minced almonds, and bake a very pale brown in a moderate oven. Vienna Rolls. Ingredients.—1 quart of flour; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; 1 tablespoonful of lard; 1 teaspoon- ful of salt; and barely 1 pint of milk. Method.—Mix together the flour, salt, and powder; rub in the lard; add the milk, and mix into a smooth dough in the basin ; turn it out on a floured board; give it a quick knead or two ; roll out to the thickness of half an inch; cut out with a large round cutter; fold one half partly over the other; lay them on a hot greased tin ; brush lightly over with milk to glaze ; and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Wheat-Meal Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; 2 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of castor- sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder ; a pinch or two of salt; a little lukewarm milk. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; add the powder, sugar, and salt; mix with the milk into a stiff paste; roll out, and cut with a tumbler into rounds. Bake in a moderate oven. When done, cut open and butter. They are very nice toasted next day, or eaten cold. They can be made with fine oatmeal if preferred, and are ex- ceedingly good. Very Good Bread. Ingredients.—7 lb. of flour ; 2 eggs; pint of fresh German yeast; lukewarm milk ; salt. Method.—Mix the flour, eggs, and yeast with enough lukewarm milk to make the whole into a rather thin dough ; set it in a warm place to rise for two hours ; sift over it some fine salt ; work enough flour into it to make the dough of a proper consistency ; make into loaves, and bake in a quick oven. Another Good Bread. Ingredients.—1 gallon of the best flour ; 1 quart of lukewarm milk and water (mixed) ; \ teacupful of yeast; 1 large teaspoonful of fine salt. Method.—Mix the salt with the flour ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it the yeast, dissolved in the lukewarm milk and water ; stir all well up with a wooden spoon ; and set it in a warm place to rise for about two or three hours. When sufficiently risen, work it up lightly, and let it re- main two minutes before you put it in the oven. Bake for about an hour and a half A good plain loaf may be made with \ peck of best seconds flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonful of yeast, and 1^ pint of water. Excellent Brown Bread. Ingredients.—2 lb. of wheaten meal ; lb. of common flour ; 1 teaspoonful of salt ; 2 small tea- spoonfuls of carbonate of soda ; \ teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 2 teaspoon- fuls of butter ; milk and water. Method.—Mix all the dry in- gredients well together in a basin ; rub in the butter, and work the whole into a dough, with sufficientCAKES, SCONES, ETC. 137 milk and water to moisten it well —about a pint should be enough. Make into two loaves, place them in tins dredged with flour, smooth them on the top, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour, or an hour, until done. Chestnut Biscuits. (German.) Ingredients. — 3 oz. of boiled chestnuts; 2 oz. of sugar; 2 oz. of flour; 3 eggs. Method. — Pound the chestnuts (previously peeled and skinned) in a mortar ; and add to them the sugar, flour, and 2 of the eggs, well beaten. Knead all thoroughly to- gether; roll out into a thin paste, and cut into little cakes of various shapes. Brush them over with egg, and bake on a buttered tin. Cocoa-Nut Pyramids. 1 lb. grated cocoa-nut; § lb. sifted loaf - sugar ; whites of 2 eggs. Beat the whites well; add other ingredients ; pour in pyramid shapes on to buttered wafer-paper. Bake in slow oven until of a pale cream-colour. Ginger Nuts. Ingredients.—4 oz. of butter ; 1 lb. of flour; 8 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger ; £ lb. of brown sugar ; a large pinch of carbon- ate of soda ; 4 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the ginger, sugar, and soda ; and mix the whole to- gether with the treacle into a stiff paste. Having floured your hands, form the paste into little flat nuts; place them on a floured tin, and bake for about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. Hard Biscuits. Ingredients.—2 lb. of flour ; 4 oz. of butter; about 1 pint of skimmed milk. Method. — Put the butter and milk into a saucepan on the stove. "When the butter is dissolved, mix with the flour into a stiff paste, adding more flour if necessary. Beat the dough until perfectly smooth, then roll it out thin, cut into round biscuits, prick them well, and bake for about ten minutes. These biscuits are nice with cheese. Plain Crisp Biscuits. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour; the yolk of 1 egg ; milk. Method.—Mix the flour with the yolk of the egg and some milk into a stiff paste, beat it well, work it till quite smooth, roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. Rice Biscuits. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter; \ lb. of sifted sugar; the yolks of 4 eggs 5 4 lb. of flour; £ lb. of ground-rice. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar and yolks; work well together ; then mix in the flour and ground-rice. Place in buttered tins, and bake for about ten minutes in a moderate oven.iSgQS, Cbecse, etc. The first necessity in an egg is that it should be fresh—not only because it is pleasanter so, but because the white, indigestible from the first, becomes more and more indigestible every day. One method of choosing eggs is to apply the tongue to the larger end ; if it feels warm, then the egg is fresh. Another way is to hold the egg up to the light; if it looks clear, it is good ; if thick, then it is stale ; if there is a black spot on the shell, then it is bad. As a matter of digestibility, the more raw you can eat an egg, the better it is for you. There are few things more indigestible than hard-boiled eggs. For invalids, it is not de- sirable to put eggs into baked puddings ; but a light custard may be given, and a raw egg beaten up in water, or milk, or soup, or beef-tea, is, it is well known, very nourishing. Indeed, some authorities go so far as to say that eggs are particularly good for the brain, which is strengthened by the phosphorus in them ; and, as a natural consequence, eggs may be said to conduce to long life. If fresh butter smells agreeably and is of the same colour throughout, then it may be accepted as good. If it tastes sour, that is a proof that it has not been sufficiently washed from the buttermilk ; and if veiny or open, it has probably been worked with an inferior kind. To choose salt butter, put a knife in it, and if the knife smells rancid, you may be tolerably sure the butter is bad. To preserve salt butter : place it in a cask previously well cleaned and salted, and keep it carefully covered. As a general rule, winter butter is not so good as that of summer. The best mode of keeping a large piece of cheese is to cover it with white paper, thickly buttered. When a small piece leaves the table, it is well to place it in a damp cloth, and keep it in a pan in a cool and not too dry cupboard or pantry. It ripens best in a damp place. If it goes too ‘ mity,’ pour a little spirit on the ‘ mity ’ parts. It is a pity cheese is not more largely eaten, for it has three times the nitrogenous quality of meat, and is therefore a more economical food. Undoubtedly, people of sedentary habits find it difficult of digestion ; but persons who have much exercise, or live much in the open air, can eat it with impunity. And to those who have delicate stomachs, we can recom- mend the cheese-puddings and other dishes of cooked cheese, for which we give recipes in the following pages.EGGSy CHEESE, ETC. 139 To Boil Eggs. Fill a saucepan with hot water, and when it is on the point of boil- ing, put the eggs in gently with a spoon. Let them boil, then lift the saucepan off the fire at once, and allow it to stand on the side of the stove for five minutes. Eggs boiled in this way will be thoroughly, cooked, light, and digestible. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients. — 1 medium - sized onion; 1 pat of butter; 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar ; 3 or 4 eggs ; pepper and salt; some fried bread- crumbs. Method.—Cut the onion into slices, and fry in a stew-pan, with a pat of butter, a light brown ; when done, add the vinegar ; then butter a dish lightly, spread the onions, (seasoned with pepper and salt), over it, break the eggs into it, and put the dish in the oven. When the eggs are set, strew them over with the fried bread-crumbs, and serve very hot. Cheese-Eggs (1). Ingredients. — Some good white cheese (say Gruyere or Stilton), some eggs, and some butter—the cheese being a third of the weight of the eggs, and the butter half the weight of the cheese. Say, eggs f lb.; cheese \ lb.; and butter 2 oz. Pepper and salt according to cir- cumstances. Method.—Beat up the eggs in a stew-pan, put it on the fire, and add the cheese (grated, or thinly sliced) and the butter. Season with pepper, and with salt also, if the flavour of the cheese admit of it. Stir con- stantly till the mixture becomes thick. Then serve on a thin slice of toast on a hot dish, the toast having previously been spread (if liked) with essence of anchovy or potted meat or fish. Cheese-Eggs (2). Ingredients. — The whites of 3 eggs ; 3 oz. of grated cheese ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, mix quickly with them the grated cheese and seasoning, and drop dessert- spoonfuls of the mixture into boil- ing fat; one minute will brown them sufficiently. Lift them care- fully from the frying-basket and place on kitchen paper to drain before the fire. Serve very hot, either on buttered toast or on a dish garnished with fried parsley. This is a nice supper-dish. Cheese Pudding (1). Ingredients.—\ lb. of cheese ; 5 oz. of grated bread-crumbs ; 1 cup- ful of milk ; 2 eggs (well beaten) ; mustard and pepper to taste ; a little ketchup, if liked ; a small piece of butter. Method.—Cut the cheese in thin slices and put them into a saucepan with a small piece of butter and the milk ; stir till well dissolved, then add the seasonings and bread- crumbs, and lastly the eggs, mixing them in lightly with a fork. Place the pudding in a shallow dish, and brown nicely before the fire. Serve very hot. Cheese Pudding (2). (Swiss Becipe.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of cheese ; 2 eggs ; a little butter ; a little milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Grate the cheese, add it to the other ingredients, and beat all well together. Place in a pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven.HO EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of grated cheese ; the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; 1 table-spoonful, of butter ; salt, pepper, and mustard ; buttered bread or biscuits. Method. — Put the yolks and butter into a basin, and beat with a spoon till smooth ; add the cheese and seasoning; mix all together, and spread between thin slices of buttered bread, or biscuits. Cheese Straws. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter ; 2 oz. of flour ; 2 oz. of grated cheese ; a little salt and cayenne. Method. — Mix the ingredients into a paste ; roll out thin, and cut into fingers about a quarter of an inch wide and two inches long. Lay them on greased paper, and bake for a few minutes in a hot oven. Serve cold. Two ounces of bread-crumbs and the yolk of an egg may be added, if liked. Cheese Toasts. Ingredients.—3 oz. of Gloucester cheese ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; 4 oz. of grated bread ; 3 oz. of butter ; 1 dessert-spoonful of mustard ; a little salt and ca3^enne ; some cold toast. Method.—Grate the cheese, and mix with it the yolks of the two eggs, the grated bread, and butter ; beat the whole well in a mortar, with the mustard, salt, and cayenne. Toast some bread thin and crisp, cut it into neat pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch-oven, covered with a dish, till hot through ; then remove the cover, let the cheese brown a little, and serve as hot as possible. Clarified Butter; for frying, etc. Take the quantity desired of good butter ; cut it into pieces and lay it in a jar ; then put the jar into boiling water, and let it stand until the butter is melted. Stir once or twice, and allow it to settle; then, when partly cool, pour it into pots, keeping back the settlement. Cover closely. To Keep Butter Cool. A very good way to keep butter cool in summer is to dissolve some saltpetre in cold water and let the butter-crock stand in it, so that the water may come well up the sides. Cover the crock with a piece of wetted linen, taking care that the ends fall into the saltpetre water, by which the linen will be kept constantly damp. Keep in as cool a place as possible. Curried Eggs. Ingredients.—Some onions (sliced); butter ; a little flour ; some stock ; 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder ; 1 dessert-spoonful of arrowroot; a little milk or cream ; and several eggs (hard-boiled). Method.—Fry the onions in the butter, till brown. Sprinkle with flour, and dilute with the stock. Next, put in a basin the curry- powder and arrowroot, and gradu- ally stir in the milk or cream till it is as thick as butter. Work this up with the fried onions, regulating with stock the quantity and con- sistency of the whole. When all is nicely blended, warm up in it the eggs, which may be whole, halved, quartered, or sliced. They will look better if they are in all these forms. Take out the eggs, pile up on a dish, and pour the curry ragout over them. A supply of boiled rice may, with advantage, accompany this dish.EGGS, CHEESE, ETC. 141 Fried Eggs. Ingredients.—Eggs ; olive-oil or butter. Method.—Break an egg gently into a cup, being careful not to break the yolk. Put into a frying- pan some olive-oil or butter ; set it over the fire, and, when it boils, raise the handle of the pan that the liquid may run to one side. Slip the egg carefully out of the cup into the pan, and, with a pierced ladle, throw the boiling oil or fat over the egg, which will cause the white to boil up and cover the yolk. As soon as one is cooked, take it out with the strainer, and do another in the same way, till you have enough. Take care to keep them hot. They should be a nice light brown, and may be served with a puree of tomatoes, a sauce piquante, or a good gravy, and seasoned with pepper and salt. German Omelette. Ingredients.—~ lb. of bacon; 8 eggs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Fry the bacon cut in dice ; bea t up the eggs with some pepper and salt, add them to the bacon, and fry all together. Stir till it gets thick, turn it on to a very hot dish, and serve quickly. Eggs in Gravy. Ingredients.—Gravy ; eggs ; pep- per and salt. Method.—Pour some nice gravy into a pie-dish, put it into the oven, and, when it begins to hiss, slip in enough eggs (previously broken into cups) to cover the bottom of the dish ; season to taste, and bake till the whites are set. Serve in the pie-dish. Ham and Eggs. Ingredients.—1 oz. of cooked ham; 1 oz. of fresh butter; 3 eggs ; a little pepper ; a spoonful of chopped chervil. Method.—Cut the ham in dice, and put it into a pan with the fresh butter, eggs, pepper, and chervil. Stir continually till the eggs are enough done. They should not be very stiff. Serve on toast. Macaroni Cheese. Ingredients.—6 oz. of macaroni ; boiling water or milk ; pepper and salt; 3 oz. of cheese (any dry white cheese will do); 1 oz. of butter ; bread-crumbs. Method.— Break the macaroni into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water or milk to cover it, and let it simmer for half an hour or more until tender. When done, drain it thoroughly, put it into a well- buttered dish, strew grated cheese between each layer ; season with pepper and salt, and add a few grains of cayenne, if liked. Cover the whole with fine bread-crumbs mixed with grated cheese, and lay some lumps of butter on the top. Brown in a quick oven, or before the fire. (Eufs en Puree. Ingredients. — Some hard-boiled eggs ; the yolks of 3 raw eggs ; a little butter ; pepper and salt ; a little good gravy ; sippets of bread dipped in egg. Method.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; let them get cold ; take out the yolks and beat them in a mor- tar with butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; chop the whites small, and stew them a few minutes in a little good gravy without letting them boil ; pass the yolks through a colander into the dish they are to be served in.142 EGGS. CHEESE, ETC. Arrange the whites round, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in egg, place the dish in the oven, and serve as soon as it is browned. Omelette. Ingredients.—2 eggs (leaving out 1 white) ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; a little minced parsley and shalot ; a very little nutmeg. Method.—Put the eggs into a basin, and add the cream, parsley, shalot, and nutmeg. Whisk all well together, and fry in as little butter as possible. Serve on a very hot dish. This is very good. Omelette aux Fines Ilerbes. Ingredients.—6 fresh eggs ; 1 tea- spoonful of salt ; \ teaspoonful of pepper ; 2 teaspoonfuls of minced parsley ; £ teaspoonful of minced onion ; 2 oz. of butter. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin ; add the salt, pepper, pars- ley, and onion, and beat them well together. Put into a clean dry frying-pan the 2 oz. of butter, place it on the fire, and, when the butter is hot, pour in the eggs. Keep mixing quickly with a spoon till it is lightly set, then tilt the pan sideways so as to let the omelette slip to the edge, which will make it of an oval shape. Let it set a minute, then turn it over on to a hot dish, and serve. Eggs sur le Plat. Ingredients. — Eggs ; butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Rub a little butter on the centre of as many plates as you have eggs; break the eggs gently on to these, dust lightly with pepper and salt, and place in the oven, or on the stove, until set. To Poach an Egg. Break the egg gently into a jam- pot, and place it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to reach half- way up the jar ; sprinkle lightly with salt, and cook until the white is quite set. Have ready some hot buttered toast, and slip the egg very carefully on to it, so as not to break the yolk. Another way is to drop the egg gently from a cup into a pan containing half-a- pint of boiling water, a little vine- gar, and a pinch of salt. In about two and a half or three minutes, when the white is set, lift it out carefully with an egg-slice. To Preserve Eggs. Ingredients.—1 lb. of quicklime to 3 gallons of water ; 1 handful of salt. Method.—Put the eggs in a large jar or vessel, and pour the lime- water (when it has stood awhile) over them. Throw in the salt, cover the jar closely, and keep in a cool place. Eggs will keep a con- siderable time if they are brushed over with gum, or if they have butter or sweet oil rubbed over them ; they must then be carefully packed in bran, and must not be allowed to touch each other. Welsh Rare-bit. Ingredients.—2 oz. of cheese ; 1 tablespoonful of ale; 1 slice of bread about £ inch thick ; pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Method.—Put the ale in a toaster before the fire, or in a dish in the oven, and add to it the cheese cut into thin slices ; when the latter is thoroughly melted, have ready the slice of bread nicely toasted and quite hot, and pour the meltedEGGS, CHEESE, ETC, 143 cheese over it, taking care that the bread is well covered in every part. Season with white pepper and salt, add a touch of mustard here and there, and serve at once. Another way is to put the cheese into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, and a little butter ; stir till the cheese is melted, then add the yolk of one egg; spread on toasted bread, and brown before the fire. Stewed Rice and Cheese. Ingredients.—% lb. of rice ; pint of water ; £ pint of milk ; 1 oz. of grated cheese ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the rice gently in the water for half an hour ; then add the milk and the cheese, and boil gently for another half-hour. Pepper and salt to taste. Rolled Butter. Take two fluted wooden spoons ; wash them well, and scald them, then rinse them in cold water. Next put some cold water in a basin, and add a little salt to it; dip the spoons in this, then place successively small pieces of butter between them and roll lightly into shapes, such as shells, fircones, balls, etc. To prevent the butter adhering to the spoons, they should be fre- quently dipped in the salted water. Savoury Eggs. Ingredients.—Eggs (as many as required) ; some finely minced chicken or veal; some finely minced ham, tongue, or sausage; 1 salt- spoonful of chopped lemon-peel; a little butter ; a little cream ; some fried bread-crumbs. Method. — Boil the eggs ten minutes; remove the shells and cut the eggs in halves ; take out the yolks and pound them well with the other ingredients. Fry the bread-crumbs, place them on a dish, and arrange the whites of the eggs in them like little cups ; fill the eggs with the mince (previously made very hot over the fire), and, just before serving, hold a red-hot shovel over the dish to make the whole crisp and hot. Scrambled Eggs. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of butter ; a little salt; 6 or 8 eggs ; a little pepper. Method.—Melt the butter with the salt in a frying-pan, but do not let it brown. Have ready the eggs, broken into a basin, and, as the butter warms, pour them into the pan, stirring them all the time and tossing them up until they are a soft mass. Care must be taken not to cook them too long. As soon as they cease to run on the pan and can be heaped together, turn them on to a hot dish, dust with pepper, and serve. Steamed Eggs. Beat an egg lightly for ten minutes, season with a little pepper and salt, and steam for about two minutes, till it is quite warmed through—on no account must it be allowed to get hard. Eggs cooked in this way will agree with the most delicate stomach. Eggs on Toast. Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls cooked fish, ham, or other meat; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; a small lump of butter ; 3 eggs ; seasoning to taste. Method.—Chop the fish or meat very fine, and beat it up with the milk, butter, eggs and seasoning. Warm over the fire, and spread on hot buttered toast.Snvaltb Coofteiy. It is scarcely necessary to insist upon the importance of this depart- ment of cookery. Obviously, a good cook can do much to assist the convalescent patient on his or her way to ordinary health. In fact, the cook may be said to begin where the doctor leaves off. And, in the first place, it is clearly of great moment that the food given to an invalid should be digestible, and every care should of course be taken in its selection. And, once selected, equal care should be bestowed upon its preparation and presentment. It is essential that the utensils used should be not only clean, but free from injurious pro- perties. Be sure, for example, that the enamel on your saucepans does not come off. Cleanliness, certainly, is imperative. And then, everything that is put before a convalescent should be tempting. It should, to begin with, be thoroughly well. cooked. It should not be too fat, or smoked ; nor should it be sour or ‘ turned,’ as the case may be. The material and the treatment accorded to it should both be unexceptionable. And, when prepared, it should be sent in to the patient in as appetising a way as possible. The cloth should be as white as snow, and all the little accessories of the meal should be such as to satisfy the most exigeant taste. If this is not so, the convalescent is very apt to lose on the sudden the little appetite that he had. It need hardly be said that, in dealing with invalids, not too much of anything should be prepared, as it is rarely that much is wanted. Nor, if the patient does not at once ‘ take ’ to the meal put in front of him, should it be kept long in his sight. ‘ To leave it by his side, from meal to meal, in hopes he will eat it in the interval, is,’ says Miss Nightingale, ‘ simply to prevent him from taking any food at all.’ Certain things should always be kept in stock, and in as great a state of readiness as possible. During hot weather, ice should be freely used to keep the materials for food in good condition. A very useful adjunct to the sick-room is a small gas stove, which renders the cook independent of the condition of the kitchen fire. The stove should not, of course, be in the same apartment with the invalid.145 INVALID COOKERY. Fresh Almond-Milk. Ingredients. — 4 oz. of sweet almonds; 4 bitter almonds; 1 quart of milk; a spoonful of syrup, or some pounded sugar. Method. — Blanch the almonds and pound them exceedingly fine, then add the milk and the syrup or sugar. This is very good for _ a cough, and very serviceable in many inflammatory attacks. Apple Drink. Ingredients.—2 quarts of boiling water ; 2 tablespoonfuls of rice ; 6 apples. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, and place them, with the rice, in the boiling water. Boil them for an hour, and then pass the liquor through a colander, pressing the rice and apples with a spoon, but not squeezing them through. The liquor may be sweetened, if desired, but is better without flavouring. To make Arrowroot. Ingredients.—2 teaspoonfuls of arrowroot (the best) ; a little cold water ; ± pint of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Put the arrowroot into a basin, and mix it by degrees, and very smoothly, with just suffi- cient cold water to allow the spoon to turn round in it. Have ready the ^ pint of quite boiling water, and pour it over the arrowroot, slowly at first, then more rapidly, stirring all the time. The result should be a perfectly clear jelly. Sweeten to taste, and add, if liked, a spoonful of brandy or sherry. Boiling milk may be substituted for the boiling water, but it is not so easily digested. Barley Water. Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful (or more, if required thicker) of pearl barley ; sugar to taste ; the juice of half a lemon ; 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Wash the barley well ; add to it the sugar (or a little syrup) and the lemon-juice, then pour over the whole the pint of boiling water ; cover closely, and let it stand by the side of the fire, or on the stove, for three hours ; then strain the mixture, and let it cool. Beef Tea. ‘ In all cases where it can be taken, beef-tea,’ says a writer, ‘ should be slightly thickened, and especially when bread is refused. Boiled flour is best for this purpose; genuine arrowroot may also be used. The yolk of an egg beaten up in the broth cup, and the tea poured boiling on to it, is excel- lent. The meat from which beef- tea has been prepared will make good stock, or be very nice if pro- perly treated for the dinner of the family, who, be it remembered, have the chief of the nourishment in the fibre. It is important, in the preparation of beef-tea, to pre- serve the fine flavour of the meat, and to use such scrupulously clean vessels that do foreign taste can be imparted to it. The shin of beef should not be chosen for this purpose, for it gives more gelatine than juice; The best part is beef- steak or the neck ; the first will yield the most gravy, and does not cost above twopence per pound more than the coarser portions of the ox. The idea that beef-tea should be boiled a long time in order to extract all the goodness of 10INVALID COOKE BY. 146 the meat is a mistaken one, for the gelatinous matter thus gained is of comparatively little value, whilst the delicate aroma of the tea is lost by long boiling.’ Beef-Tea (1). Ingredients.—1 lb. of gravy beef ; f pint of water ; a little salt. Method.—Cut away every par- ticle of fat from the meat, mince it with a chopping knife, put it into an enamel saucepan, with the above proportion of water. Place the pan on the fire, and press the beef with a wooden spoon till it is on the point of boiling ; then take it off, and let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for u quarter of an hour. When ready, pour the tea from the beef, but do not strain it. Season with salt, and serve with dry toast, or lightly boiled rice. Beef-Tea (2). Ingredients. — 2 lb. of gravy beef ; 2|- pints of water. Method.—Remove all fat from the beef ; cut the latter into small pieces, and put them into a jar with the above proportion of water; place the jar, covered closely, in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for three or four hours. When done, pour off the tea, season the quantity re- quired with a little salt, and serve with dry toast. The remainder can be heated when wanted. Beef-Tea (3). (Dr. Lankester’s Recipe.) It is one peculiarity of albumin- ous food, that it digests more easily before cooking than after ; oysters, although eaten alive and raw, are found to digest very easily. The longer albumen is cooked, the more indigestible does it become. Thus, in making beef- tea, it becomes important to pre- vent the albumen of the blood coagulating. The beef should therefore be sliced, put into cold water for an hour or two, then squeezed and removed, and the tea heated up to the point at which it is pleasant to drink. Baked or Stewed Calf’s Foot. Ingredients. — 1 calf’s foot; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of water ; 1 blade of mace ; \ lemon ; 1 onion; a little celery ; and % teacupful of cream. Method.—Clean the foot well, and bake or stew it for three or four hours in the milk and water, with all the other ingredients named except the cream. The onion and celery can be omitted if not approved. The cream should be stirred in just before serving. Calf’s Sweetbread. Ingredients. — 1 sweetbread ; 1 onion ; a little thyme ; a small piece of lemon-peel ; £ pint of milk ; 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of cold milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one hour or longer, then put it in boiling water, or white stock, and let it simmer gently in this for twenty minutes or half an hour. To make the sauce, boil the onion, thyme, and lemon-peel in the ^ pint of milk, until it is reduced to half the quantity ; strain the above thick- ening of flour and milk, and stir the boiling milk into it, season with pepper and salt, and keep stirring over the fire until thick.147 INVALID COOKERY. Take the sweetbread out of the water or stock, and put it into the sauce; stew very slowly for a quarter of an hour, then add a little lemon-juice, if liked. Toasted bacon may be served with it. Chicken Broth. Ingredients.—1 fowl; 2 quarts of water ; 6 blades of mace ; 1 onion ; a few herbs and pepper- corns ; and some salt. Method.—Place the fowl (which should be young and tender) in the water, and let it simmer gently for two hours, skimming carefully at intervals. The fowl can then be taken out, and the most ‘ tasty ’ parts of it cut off for the table. It should then be put back, and, the mace, onion, herbs and pepper- corns having been added, boiled for two more hours ; after which the broth should be strained and put in a cool place. When it is wanted, skim the fat off the top, warm up as much as is required, and serve. Cure for a Cough. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 3 lemons ; 1 pint of rum ; £ lb. of sugar- candy ; 2 tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. Method. — Put 2 nice clean eggs (unbroken) into a basin; squeeze the juice of the lemons over them, and let them remain, covered closely, for two days. Then break the eggs, beat them up well with the juice, add the other ingredients, pour into a bottle, and shake all thoroughly together. Take half a wine-glassful in a little water every morning before break- fast. This is very strengthening for a delicate person. Stswed Cutlet. Ingredients. — 1 mutton cutlet (from the neck or loin) ; 2 teacup- fuls of water ; 1 small stick of celery ; pepper and salt. Method.—Take all the fat from the cutlet, and put the latter in a stewpan with the other ingredients, the celery having first been cut into thin slices. Stew very gently for nearly two hours, carefully skimming off the fat as it collects on the surface. The water should not be allowed to boil fast, or the cutlet will be hard. For Dyspeptics. Ingredients. — 1 fresh egg ; 6 tablespoonfuls of cold water; 2 tablespoonfuls of potato-flour ; boiling water. Method'.—Beat up the egg in a basin; then add the water, and mix in very smoothly the potato- flour ; pour as much boiling water over it as will make it into a jelly, stirring all the time. This is very light, wholesome and nourishing, and may be eaten for breakfast with a little milk and sugar. Egg Cordial. Ingredients.—The white of 1 very fresh egg ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Method.—Whip the egg nearly to a froth, then the cream with the egg ; add the brandy by degrees, and mix well ; do not let it stand after it is made. This is very nourishing, and so light, it wiil remain on the stomach when no- thing else will. Egg Drink. Ingredients.—1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- ful of sugar ; a cupful of boiling milk. 10—2148 INVALID COOKERY. Method.—Break a nice fresh egg into a cup, and beat it well up along with the sugar. Add gradu- ally the boiling milk, beating with a fork all the time. This is a most strengthening and refreshing drink for anyone who feels weak or tired. Egg Flip. (Very nourishing.) Ingredients.—1 egg ; 1 breakfast- cupful of milk. Method.—Beat up the white of a nice fresh egg in a breakfast-cup for about five minutes ; then fill up the cup with milk, and pour into a tumbler. A teaspoonful of sherry or brandy can be added if required. Egg Pudding. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; rather less than £ pint of mil£; a little sugar and nutmeg Method.—Beat up the eggs well, and add them to the other ingre- dients. Put the pudding in a basin, and boil for twenty minutes. The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in. Brink for a Fever. Ingredients.—3 oz. of currants; 2 oz. of raisins, carefully stoned ; 11 oz. of tamarinds ; 3 pints of water ; a little lemon peel. Method. — Boil the currants, raisins, and tamarinds in the 3 pints of water till it is reduced to a quart ; strain it, add a piece of lemon-peel, and let it stand an hour, when it will be fit for use. Furmity. Ingredients.—Wheat ; 2 quarts of new milk; the yolks of 3 eggs ; a little nutmeg ; sugar to taste. Method.—Boil the wheat till it comes to a jelly, and to a quart of this add by degrees the 2 quarts of new milk. Stir and boil till well mixed ; then add the well- beaten yolks of the eggs, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste; stir the whole well over the fire, pour into deep dishes, and eat either hot or cold. Dressed Game. Ingredients.—1 fresh partridge; a few tablespoonfuls of water or light stock, and some salt. Method.—Take the breast of the partridge; remove the skin (with any fibres or sinews), and mince it very fine. Put it into a saucepan with the water, or stock, and the salt. Stir, and simmer gently for half an honr. Then serve hot. Hare can be done in the same way, and will be found very easy of digestion. GrueL Ingredients.—1 oz. of Itobinson’s patent groats; 1 pint of water; a little salt. Method.—Put the groats into a very clean saucepan (a double sauce- pan is best if you have one); add the above proportion of water, and boil gently for four hours or more, stirring occasionally. A little boil- ing water may be added from time to time, so as to keep the original quantity. When done, strain through a hair-sieve, being careful not to allow any of the grain to get into the gruel. Put the gruel into a clean pan, stir it well until it boils, then season with salt or sugar. A little wine or brandy may be added, if desired.INVALID COOKERY,\ 149 Oatmeal Gruel. (Scotch Recipe.) Ingredients.—Some finely ground oatmeal; water. Method.—Take as much oatmeal (of the best quality) as you require, and soak it in cold water for an hour or two; stir it up, let it stand for a few minutes to settle, then carefully pour off the liquid into a saucepan, taking care not to allow any of the rough part of the meal to get into it. Stir the gruel over the fire till it boils, then let it sim- mer gently on the side of the stove for half an hour or more, stirring occasionally. When done, pour into a basin, and season with a little salt or sugar, add a lump of butter, or a little milk, if preferred. This gruel, when made thick enough, is very good eaten Cold with toast. Restorative Gruel. Ingredients.—1 oz. of rice ; 1 oz. of sago; 1 oz. of pearl barley; 3 pints of water ; a little salt or sugar; wine or brandy. Method.—Wash the rice, sago, and barley, and put them into a saucepan with the water; boil gently for three hours; then strain, season with salt or a little sugar, and flavour with wine or brandy as preferred. This is exceedingly good. Made a little thicker, it is nice eaten hot or cold, with sugar or preserves. Invalid Jelly. Ingredients.—1 pint of port wine or sherry ; 2 oz. of isinglass ; 4 oz. of sugar-candy ; \ oz. of gum- arabic ; water. Method.—Put all the dry ingre- dients into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them. Set the pan on the stove, and when the isinglass, sugar-candy, and gum- arabic are thoroughly dissolved, add the port wine or sherry. Strain the jelly through a piece of muslin into a jar, and keep it covered. When cold, a small piece should be given to the patient two or three times a day. Sweet Lait de P-oule. (For a Cold.) Ingredients. — The yolks of 2 eggs ; 3 or 4 lumps of sugar ; a few drops of orange-flower water ; boiling water. Method.— Beat the yolks and sugar together in a breakfast-cup, add the flavouring, then pour in, very slowly, the boiling water, taking care to stir the mixture all the time. Drink hot, when in bed. Lemonade (1). Ingredients.—6 lemons ; 1 quart of boiling water; 1 lb. of loaf- sugar ; | pint of white wine (any kind) ; \ pint of boiling milk. Method.—Peel the lemons ; put the peel into a jug, and pour the boiling water over it. When nearly cold, add the juice of the lemons, the sugar, wine, and boiling milk. Let the whole stand for a few minutes, then pour it, till quite clear, through a jelly-bag. Lemonade (2). Ingredients.—2 large lemons ; 1 quart of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Slice the lemons and put them into a jug ; add several pieces of lump-sugar ; pour over the boiling water ; cover, and let it stand till cold. Linseed Drink. Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of linseed ; 1 quart of boiling water ;INVALID COOKERY. 150 ^ peel of a lemon ; 2 or 3 pieces of sugar-candy. Method.—Pour the boiling water over the linseed, and add the lemon peel and sugar-candy. Let the whole stand in a covered jug till cold. If the drink is required thicker for a cough, more linseed may be added. Linseed Tea. Ingredients.—1 oz. of bruised linseed ; 2 drachms of bruised liquorice-root; 1 pint of boiling water ; sugar to taste. Method.—Put the linseed and liquorice-root into a jug, and pour over them the pint of boiling water. Cover the jug close, set it on the stove, and allow it to infuse for three or four hours. Then strain it, sweeten to taste, flavour with lemon-peel, if liked, and serve hot. Useful in acute pulmonary dis- orders. Dressed Macaroni. (Swiss Recipe.) Ingredients. — About 2 oz. of macaroni ; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 des- sert-spoonful of flour; 1 breakfast- cupful of milk ; pepper and salt to taste ; 1 or 2 eggs ; a little hot milk. Method.—Boil the macaroni over a gentle fixe for one hour. While it is'cooking the dressing can be prepared as follows : Melt the butter in a saucepan, add gradually the flour, mixing well, then pour in slowly the cupful of milk ; sea- son with pepper and salt, and cook the whole for about ten minutes. When the macaroni is quite tender, drain it and put it into a dry sauce- pan ; cover it with the dressing and let it cook, without boiling, for another ten minutes. When ready, place the macaroni in a hot dish, pour over it one or two eggs beaten up in a very little hot milk, and serve. Milk for the Sick. Milk, when given to infants or to the sick, should be boiled with a little salt and lime-water in it. Allow 2 tablespoonfuls of the latter to a pint of milk. The boiling kills the bacteria in it, and the lime-water prevents it coagu- lating into a solid mass, and corrects the tendency to become acid on the bowels. Milk Whey. Ingredients.—1 breakfast-cupful of sweet milk; 1 breakfast-cupful of butter-milk; a little sugar. Method.—Boil the sweet milk, and pour it into the butter-milk; let it stand a minute or two, then strain it through a piece of muslin. Sweeten to taste. This is a very refreshing drink. Omelette. Ingredients.—2 fresh eggs; 1 oz. of butter; a sprinkling of fine sweet herbs — marjoram, basil, lemon, thyme, parsley, chives or eschalot, chopped very fine; pepper and salt. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, and beat them thoroughly; melt the butter in a china fire- proof omelette-pan over a clear hot fire; pour in the beaten eggs, and add at once the sprinkling of sweet herbs and seasoning. When the omelette has begun to settle, turn one half over the other with a silver knife (if you have one), and serye immediately in the omelette-pan. Do not cover it. A teaspoonful of cream and a little butter beaten up with the eggs is an improvement.INVALID COOKERY. 151 Rice-Water. Ingredients. — 1 oz. of Carolina rice; 1 quart of water. Method.—Wash the rice well, and put it in a saucepan with the 2 pints of water ; let it simmer for three hours, then let it come gradually to the boiling-point. Strain the liquid, and when cold it will be ready for use. This is good for diarrhoea, dysentery, etc. Tapioca Blanc Mange. (American Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 scant cupful of tapioca; 1 large cupful of cold water ; 2 cupfuls of milk ; 1 cupful of sugar ; a few drops of vanilla ; pinch of salt, and the same of soda in the milk. Method.—Soak the tapioca four or five hours—overnight, if you can remember it. Scald the milk, stir in the sugar, then the soft, clear tapioca. Cook and stir fifteen minutes ; take from the fire, pour into a bowl, put in your eggbeater, and whip two minutes to get out the lumps. Flavour, and mould in cups or bowls wet with cold water. When firm, turn out, and eat with cream. It is very good, especially for sick people. Baked Sole. Ingredients.—1 small sole ; some dissolved butter ; bread-crumbs ; pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape the sole ; wipe it in a clean fish-cloth ; dip it in the dissolved butter; sprinkle with seasoned bread-crumbs ; and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Tea. ‘ When you see the natural and almost universal craving in English sick for their tea, you cannot but feel,’ says Florence Nightingale, ‘that Nature knows what she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal ; and a great deal of tea, and especially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or coffee restore her patient, thinks three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all: it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea.’ Tea for an Invalid. (Dr. King Chambers’s Recipe.) Pour into a small china or earth- enware teapot a cup of quite boil- ing water, empty it out; and while it is still hot and steaming, put in the tea and enough boiling water to wet it thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam three or four minutes. Then pour in the quantity of water required, and it is ready for use. Toast Water. Ingredients. — 1 slice of stale bread, toasted ; boiling water. Method.—Cut the bread rather thick, and brown it thoroughly, without burning it, on both sides. The moment it is done, put it into a jug, and pour the required quan- tity of boiling water over it; cover the jug close, and when cold it is ready for use. Oatmeal-water is made in the same way, the oatmeal being browned in the oven or be- fore the fire. It is useful in pre- venting sickness.Miscellaneous- Anchovy Toast. Ingredients.—A few anchovies ; some dried parsley ; half a clove of garlic ; a little cayenne ; a few drops of lemon-juice ; a very little salad oil. Method.—Bone the anchovies, and pound them in a mortar, or mince them very fine with the other ingredients. Serve on toasted hread, or bread fried in oil. Baking-Powder. Ingredients.—1 oz. and ^ a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda ; 1 oz. of tartaric acid ; 1 oz. of rice- flour. Method.—Mix all together and pound till perfectly smooth. Put in a bottle, and cork tightly. To Brown Bread-crumbs. Put the crumbs on a tin and bake them a golden brown colour in the oven ; or toast some very thin pieces of stale bread; dry them in the oven, then pound them with a rolling-pin. Croutons of Bread. Cut stale bread into dice ; fry them in clarified butter a delicate brown; drain, and serve on a neatly folded napkin. Cherokee Sauce. Ingredients.—1 gallon vinegar ; 1^ oz. capsicum ; 1 pint Indian soy ; 1 pint mushroom ketchup ; 1 oz. garlic. Method.—Bruise well the capsi- cum and garlic ; put them into a jug or wide-mouthed bottle. Pour over them the boiling vinegar. When cold, add soy and ketchup. Put into well-corked bottles, and keep for a month before using. Chicken Blocks. Ingredients.—1 very thick slice of bread ; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; 2 eggs ; lb. of cooked chicken ; 1 oz. of butter; \ oz. of flour; 1 gill of stock; salt; pepper; 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and some hot clarified fat. Method.—Let the bread be about two inches thick. Cut it into squares, remove the crust, and make breadcrumbs of the odd bits. (If a cottage loaf is used, take the top half of it.) Place the milk on a plate, and dip into it each side of the blocks of bread. Then pour away the milk ; and beating up the whites of the eggs (not to a froth), roll the blocks in them, and after- wards in the breadcrumbs (on paper). Cut up the chicken into small pieces. Melt in a small saucepan the butter, adding first the flour and then the stock, and mix over the fire while boiling. Then add some salt and pepper, the lemon juice, and the chicken ; mix well again ; then draw the mixture on one side to keep hot. In the centre of each block make a little round incision. Drop each block separately into the hot clari-153 MISCELLANEOUS. fied fat, which must have been got ready meanwhile ; and when each is hot, take it out, and put it on paper to drain. Then take out the little round bit in the centre, and, with a fork, scoop out a hole, into which place a little of the cooked chicken, afterwards putting back in its place the round piece in question. Serve very hot. Boiled Chocolate. Ingredients. — Chocolate, sugar, milk and water. Method.—Scrape down the choco- late, and when ready put on to boil equal quantities of milk and water. Pour on to the grated chocolate a little of the boiling liquid, and mix to a smooth paste ; then gradually add the rest of the milk and transfer the whole mix- ture to the pan. Boil for a few minutes with sugar to taste, and serve hot. Coffee. The flavour of coffee may be greatly improved, and its delicate aroma increased, by adding a little bicarbonate of soda to the water with which it is made. It is for this reason that the coffee obtained at Vichy, Carlsruhe, and some other towns is of such superior excellence, a certain percentage of bicarbonate of soda being naturally in the water of these places. To Make Coffee. (A simple way.) Ingredients.— 1 dessertspoonful of coffee ; about 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Put the coffee into a jug and pour the boiling water on to it ; stir, then allow it to stand by the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes to settle. When ready, pour the coffee gently out of the jug into cups, which fill up with boiling milk. Coffee. {As made in Paris.) The coffee berries should be more roasted than is generally the case in England, and the fresher they are roasted the better; in any case they should not be kept longer than a week, and never ground longer than an hour before the coffee is prepared. The powder is to be placed in the ordinary French coffee-pot, in the proportion of half an ounce to every good-sized cupful of water, which should be poured in a boiling state on the coffee. The coffee-pot is then to be placed near the fire iii such a way as to keep it very hot, but under the boiling-point, so that all the strength is brought out, but the aroma not carried off. It is usually kept thus for two hours, and then gently poured into the coffee-pot in which it is to be served. Many persons prefer an addition of chicory powder, which should be in proportion of a tea- spoonful to an ounce of coffee. Clouted Cream to eat with Tarts. Take four pints of new milk; set it on a clear fire, and stir it occasionally. Whenever it begins to boil, take it off, and put it into broad flat dishes to cool. Stir it about in the dishes for some time after it is turned out of the pan ; set it in a cool place, and let it stand twenty-four hours. It is excellent to eat with all sorts of fruit-tarts, and may be served with cream poured over it.154 MISCELLANEOUS. Black Currant Cordial. Ingredients.—To every quart of currants allow 1 quart of gin, and 1^ lb. of loaf sugar. Method.—Pour the gin over the currants, and bruise the latter with a wooden spoon; let the whole stand for thirty-six hours, then put it in a flannel bag, and let the juice drop on the sugar. "When the latter is quite melted, pour the cordial into bottles, and cork tightly. A Wet Curry. Ingredients.—Some meat, fowl, or fish ; a piece of butter ; 2 or 3 onions; 1 tablespoonful of curry powder ; salt; a little water or broth. Method.—Cut the meat, fowl, or fish into small pieces ; put them, with the butter and onions sliced, into a stewpan; fry them till brown. When nearly done, add the curry powder and a little salt, and simmer the whole gently, with a little water or broth, until it is sufficiently cooked. Remember to keep constantly stirring. The Admiral’s Curry. Ingredients.—1 oz. of butter ; 4 onions; a few carrots and turnips ; some good veal stock ; 1 teaspoon- ful of curry powder ; 1 teaspoonful of curry paste ; 1 dessert-spoonful of chutnee ; some meat (any kind). Method.—Put the butter into a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot, slice into it the four onions and the carrots and turnips ; then brown over a sharp fire, and rub through a tammy. When done sufficiently, add some good veal stock to the sauce, the curry powder, paste, and chutnee. Mix all this well together with a wooden . spoon for about ten minutes; now put in whatever meat you choose— rabbit, fowl, or fish. Cut in rather small pieces ; stew over a smart fire, adding occasionally a little weak broth or milk, that the curry may not get too dry. Let all simmer together, and an excellent curry will be the result. Milk is considered a great improvement to curry, either sweet or butter-milk ; if the former is used, a little lemon- juice should be added to it. Custard Toast. Ingredients.—1 slice of bread ; 1 oz. of butter ; sugar to taste ; 1 egg ; | pint of milk. Method.—Toast the bread a light brown, and butter it on both sides. Make a custard of the remaining ingredients, and pour it over the toast. Serve at once. To Clarify Dripping. {For pastry, etc.) Heat the dripping over the fire or in the oven, and while quite hot pour it into a basin of cold water. When the dripping is cold, remove the sediment which will be found at the bottom, and put the dripping in jars for use. It will remain good for some time if kept in a cool place. To Clarify Fat. Take the fat of beef or mutton which you wish to clarify, cut into small pieces, and put into a sauce- pan ; cover with cold water, and stir till boiling, then skim care- fully. Let the fat now continue to boil quickly till all the water has gone off, when the liquid will be no longer white, but in ap- pearance like salad-oil. Strain the fat off into jars, where it will remain ready for use for any length of time.155 MISCELLANEOUS. Browned Flour. (For thickening.) Take as much flour as you re- quire, spread it thinly over a plate, and place it in the oven or in front of the fire till as brown as desired. It should be often turned. Any quantity of flour may be browned at a time, put into a corked bottle, and kept ready for use. Fondu. Ingredients.—\ lb. fine flour, well dried ; ^ pint of cream ; a piece of butter the size of a nut; 5 eggs ; a pint of new milk ; 2 oz. of grated parmesan cheese. Method.—Mix the flour, cream, and butter well together in a stewpan over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the mixture is quite thick and smooth ; then add the yolks of the five eggs, the milk, and grated cheese. Stir all to- gether, but not over the fire. Beat up the whites of the five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it lightly with the other ingredients. Bake in a souffle-dish in paper case, in a gentle oven, for half an hour. Take care it is served the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall and become heavy. Devonshire Junket. Ingredients.—4 lumps of sugar ; rind of 1 lemon ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 pint of cream ; 1 small teacupful of brandy ; a piece of rennet; a little powdered cinnamon. Method.—Rub the sugar on the lemon-peel until the yellow rind is absorbed ; put the sugar in a saucepan with the milk and half a pint of the cream ; make it hot, but do not allow it to boil. Put the brandy in a bowl, and add to it the contents of the saucepan. Wash the rennet thoroughly to remove the salt, place it (with the rest of the ingredients) in the bowl, suspended by a piece of string. When the mixture is set, draw the rennet out, pour in half a pint of whipped cream, sprinkle a little cinnamon over, and serve. More sugar can be added if desired. Pancakes Quickly Made. Ingredients.—ilb. of flour; 2_tea- spoonfuls of egg-powder ; a pinch of salt ; a little milk; castor sugar. Method.—Mix the flour, powder, and salt well together ; then add, very gradually, enough milk to make a thin batter. Pour just enough of the batter into a frying- pan (in which a little butter has been melted) to cover it, and no more. Keep raising it round the edge with a knife so that it may not burn. When it is cooked through, which ought to be in two minutes or less, strew castor sugar over, fold neatly, and serve. These pancakes are exceedingly good, and are very little trouble to make. Dried Peaches Stewed. Soak the peaches (having pre- viously washed them carefully) for one hour in the water in which they are to be cooked. At the end of that time put them over the fire, covering the saucepan closely, and bring them to a gentle simmer. Stew slowly for half an hour or more until the peaches are quite tender, then pour them with care, so as not to break them, into a deep dish, and sweeten to taste. Cover until cold, then serve. Dried apples, pears, and cherries are also good done in this way. Apples may be flavoured with a little mace and allspice, if liked.156 MISCELLANEOUS. Peppermint Cordial. Ingredients.—1 gallon of water ; A\ lb. of loaf sugar ; 2 drachms of the best oil of peppermint ; 1 pint of gin. Method. — Boil the water and sugar together for twenty minutes; let it stand till nearly cold, then add the oil of peppermint and gin. Mix all together. When quite cold, pour into bottles and tightly cork. This cordial will keep for any length of time. Potato-crust for Beef-pie. (American Recipe.) Ingredients. — 1 cupful of cold mashed potatoes ; 1 tablespoonful melted butter ; 1 tablespoonful of clean beef-dripping ; the yolk of 1 egg (beaten light) ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of prepared flour ; salt to taste ; 1 cupful of milk. Method. — Beat the butter and dripping into the potato, and then the egg, salt, and milk; then, when all are light, the flour. There should be just enough of the last to hold the paste together. Roll out tolerably thick, handling it carefully, and spread over the pie. Potato Salad. Ingredients. — 2 cupfuls of mashed potato (rubbed through a colander) ; f cupful of firm white cabbage (chopped fine) ; 2 table- spoonfuls of cucumber or gherkin pickle (also chopped) ; yolk of a hard boiled egg (pounded to powder) ; all to be mixed well together. Dressing. — 1 raw egg (beaten light); 1 saltspoonful of celery- seed ; 1 teaspoonful of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of melted butter; 1 teaspoonful of flour ; ^ cupful of vinegar; salt and pepper. Method.—Heat the vinegar to boiling, and stir into it the beaten egg, sugar, butter, and seasoning. Wet the flour with cold vinegar, and add to the above. Cook the mixture, stirring constantly, until it thickens, and then pour scalding hot upon the salad. Toss up with a silver fork, and let the whole get perfectly cold before eating. Oatmeal Porridge. Ingredients.—6 oz. of medium Scotch oatmeal ; 1 pint of cold water ; 1 pint of boiling water ; salt to taste. Method.—Put the meal into a saucepan with the cold water, and add the boiling water and salt ; stir the whole over the fire until it boils, then let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for about three quarters of an hour; stir frequently to prevent the porridge sticking to the bottom of the pan and so getting an unpleasant singed taste. Should it become too thick, more boiling water must be added. When done, pour out into soup plates, and serve with milk, cream, sugar, or syrup, according to taste. For invalids, or dyspeptics, porridge is the better for being well boiled. If made in a double saucepan (which is best), two hours is not too long to boil it. It should be frequently stirred while cooking. Raspberry Vinegar. Ingredients.—2 quarts ripe rasp berries (freshly gathered); suffi- cient best white vinegar to cover the fruit; to every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Method. — Put the raspberries into a large jar and pour the vinegar over then. Cover closely, and let them remain in a cool157 MISCELLANEOUS. place for seven or eight days. Then put the fruit into a jelly - bag, and allow all the liquid to drop from it without pressure. Add the sugar in the above pro- portion, and boil the syrup over a clear fire for twelve or fourteen minutes, stirring occasionally. When cold pour into bottles, and cover with perforated paper. Keep in a cool, dry place. Rice Croquettes. Ingredients.—1 cupful of rice ; 1 egg, well beaten ; 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of melted butter ; a very little nutmeg; salt. Method.—Boil the rice until soft, and let it get 'perfectly cold and stiff. Beat up the egg, sugar, butter, salt and nutmeg well together. Work this mixture into the rice, stirring and beating until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended and mixed into a smooth paste. Make, with floured hands, into oblong rolls, about three inches in length, and half an inch in diameter. Cover these thickly with flour, and set them in a cold place until needed. Fry—a few at a time—in hot clarified dripping, rolling them over as they begin to brown to preserve their shape. As each is taken from the fat, put into a hot colander to drain and dry. Croquettes are eaten as a vegetable, but they make a good after-meat course, eaten with powdered sugar or sweet sauce. Savoury Rice. Ingredients.— 1 onion ; 1 teacup- ful of rice ; 1 dessert-spoonful of butter: 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water ; 1 tablespoonful of corn- flour • 1 teacupful of milk ; 1 j egg; pepper and salt; some boil- ing water. Method.—Chop up the onion ; pour the boiling water over it; let it stand for about ten minutes, then drain it dry. Next put it in a loot, with the rice (well washed), the butter, the cupfuls of water, and a little pepper and salt. Let the whole boil slowly for nearly half an hour, taking care that the pot is closely covered. Then add the cornflour, milk, and egg (beaten up), with seasoning to taste; stir over the fire for a minute or two ; turn out into a dish, and brown the top either in front of the fire or in the oven. Roties k la Minime. Ingredients. — Some slices of bread ; a little oil ; some slices of well-washed anchovy or sardines; a little minced shalot, parsley, green onions; minced thyme; sweet basil; a bay-leaf ; some whole pepper ; a little vinegar. Method.—Cut the slices of bread about two fingers’ length and the thickness of a crown-piece; put them into a stewpan, with a little oil, over a gentle fire ; turn them often till they acquire a good colour. Dress them on the dish, and lay some slices of the well- washed anchovy or sardines on them. Add to the oil in which you fried the bread the minced shallot, parsley, green onion, minced thyme, sweet basil, the bay-leaf, whole pepper, and vine- gar ; boil it a moment, pour over the toast, and serve cold. The bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and pepper to be removed. Chicken Salad. Ingredients.—2 eggs ; 1 gill of salad oil; ^ cold boiled chicken •158 MISCELLANEOUS. 1 head of lettuce; pepper and salt; the juice of tt lemon ; a few radishes. Method.—Place the yolks of 2 eggs in a basin, and pour into them drop by drop the salad oil, stirring well all the time. (If, in hot weather, the oil should curdle, add another yolk.) When the mixture has thickened, cut the chicken into very small pieces, removing all bone and skin. Having washed the lettuce well, take the outside leaves and arrange them round a dish like the spokes of a wheel. Then take the heart, cut it up fine, mix it with the chicken, and season with pepper and salt, and place the result in the centre of the dish, over part of the lettuce ; pour over it the dressing ; put the lemon-juice between the mixture and the lettuce ; cut the radishes in two and arrange them round the edge of the plate. When in season, celery can be used instead of the heart of the lettuce ; and cold turkey can be substituted for the chicken. Cooked Salad. (Dr. Kitchener s Recipe.) Ingredients. — Cold cauliflower, delicate cabbage, asparagus-tops, seakale, green peas, kidney beans, and any other vegetables in season. Salad mixture made, if liked, with aromatised pickle vinegar ; a few fresh leaves of cabbage lettuce. Method.—Drain the vegetables thoroughly, and arrange them tastefully in the centre of a deep dish—the greater variety of vege- tables the better. Pour over the whole a plentiful supply of salad mixture,which may have, if desired, a few capers or nasturtium-buds thrown into it. Place on the top a few fresh lettuce leaves. This makes a nice cooling dish in hot weather, and is also easy of diges- tion. Lettuce Salad. Ingredients. — 3 lettuces ; 1^ tablespoonful of salad oil; \ gill of vinegar ; salt and pepper to taste ; 3 eggs boiled hard. Method.—Clean the lettuce care- fully, separating each leaf ; re- move all moisture from them, and cut into pieces. Mince the hard- boiled eggs, mix with the lettuce, and pour over both the oil and vinegar, when these have been stirred well into each other, and seasoned with pepper and salt. If preferred, the lettuce-leaves may merely be separated and laid in a dish, then ornamented with slices of the egg, and moistened as above. Salad mixture (1). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of made mustard; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil; 1 tablespoonful of milk or cream; 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar ; pepper and salt. Method.—Put the mustard into a basin with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing the ingredi- ents well together. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually or the sauce will curdle ; then put in the pepper and salt. It ought to have a creamy appearance, and, when mixing, the ingredients cannot be added too gradually or stirred too much. Salad Mixture (2). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mustard ; 1 saltspoonf ul of salt; ^ saltspoonful of pepper; 1 tea-159 MISCELLANEOUS. cupful of good thick cream ; 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Method.—Put the mustard, salt, and pepper into a basin, and work very gradually into them the cream ; add the vinegar by degrees, and keep stirring the whole con- tinually till you pour it over the salad. Skansk Grot. (Swedish Recipe.) Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice ; the rind of 1 lemon ; a piece of cinna- mon ; 1 lb. of apples; 2 dozen raisins ; sugar to taste ; 1 glass of white wine. Method.—Boil the rice in suffi- cient water with the lemon-rind and cinnamon. When half cooked, add to it the apples, pared, cored, and cut up, the raisins (stoned), sugar, and white wine. Boil until the rice is quite tender. Before serving, take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon. Serve either hot or cold, with cream or milk. A Supper Dish. Ingredients.—As many potatoes as required ; 2 eggs ; a little milk, fried bacon and eggs. Method.— Boil the potatoes ac- cording to directions (which see), beat them very smooth, and mix with them one of the eggs and a little milk ; place them on a flat dish (the border of which glaze with the yolk of the other egg), and brown'before the fire ; arrange fried bacon and eggs neatly round the border, and serve. Filleted fish, cut in pieces and fried, can be sub- stituted for the bacon and eggs if preferred. Clarified Sugar. Ingredients.—Preserving sugar ; eggs ; water. Method.—Take \ pint of water and half the white of an egg beaten up in it for every pound of sugar. Stir till the sugar is melted, bring it to boiling-point, and pour in another \ pint of water for each pound of sugar. Bring it again to the boil, take the pan from the fire ; remove the scum and put it to drain on a hair- sieve. From the scum will escape some syrup, which can be returned to the pan. Boil the whole again, and skim as before. How to Make Tea. The kettle should, in the first place, be perfectly clean, both inside and out ; and, in the second place, the fire should be bright and clear. The water should be soft (if pos- sible) and filtered. About twenty minutes before it is required, fill the kettle with fresh water, and, when it is just on the point of boiling, scald the inside of the tea- pot (which is best when made of earthenware, china, or silver). Put in the tea—a spoonful of which for each person will be sufficient if it is really good and unadulterated —pour the boiling water over it, let the tea stand under a tea-cosy for two or three minutes, and then pour it out. If more tea is re- quired, let it be made in another teapot. It is a good plan, when sufficient tea is made, to admit of each person receiving two cupfuls, to pour it, when it is of the right strength, through a strainer, into another hot teapot. The tea used should always be good. ‘ Cheap ’ tea is dear in the end, for it con- tains more tannin than better sorts, and more of it is required to make an acceptable cup. When taken in moderation tea is veryMISCELLANEOUS. 160 refreshing and wholesome ; but, when taken too frequently, or too strong, or too hot, it is very in- jurious. How to Make Toast. It may, at first sight, seem un- necessary to give this information; but, as a matter of fact, few per- sons, certainly few servants, know how to make toast properly. As a rule, it is either sodden or dried up—dried up because done too quickly, sodden because laid down on its side when finished. If a slice is done too quickly, the heat does not penetrate into it, but simply scorches the outside ; whilst if it is laid on its side, the steam from it prevents its becoming crisp. Now, the right mode of making toast is as follows :—In the first place, let the bread used be stale, and let it be cut thin, the edging being taken away. Then see that the fire is hot and clear, and that the bars of the fireplace are clean. Next, taking up a slice of the bread, put it for a minute close to the fire, by way of warming it merely. Do this to both sides. Then hold the slice a little way from the fire, and move it about gently till it acquires a very pale brown colour. Then turn the slice, and do ditto with the other side. By this means the water is drawn out of the bread, and it changes from indigestible dough to.digest- ible farina. As soon as each slice is done, put it in a toast-rack to cool, or, if you do not possess a toast-rack, lean the first slice up against some article on the table, and then, when the slices are done, let them lean against and support each other. They will thus become crisp. Toast should, when pos- sible, be eaten as soon as made ; when kept beyond a certain time, it becomes tough and indigestible. Hot Buttered Toast. The loaf from which the bread is cut should be a tinned one, two days old. The slices should be evenly cut, and fully half an inch thick. The process of toasting should be slowly and carefully carried out before a bright clear fire. On no account must any portion of the surface be burned ; the whole should be a beautiful brown on both sides, and while still hot the slice is to be placed on a plate, and the butter, fresh and sweet, laid thickly on, the surface being pierced here and there with the knife to let it penetrate, as it melts ; the crust of the slice should at the same time be broken with the handle of the knife to render it toothsome. A sprinkling of finely powdered salt should be dusted over all, and the toast is then ready for the table. Memo, to serve hot.—Dr. Gordon Stables. To Mull Wine. Ingredients.—20 cloves ; 1 bottle of port wine ; 3 eggs ; nutmeg. Method.—Pound the cloves very finely in a mortar ; boil them in a pint of water for twenty minutes, strain through muslin, then add the bottle of port wine ; set it on the fire until quite hot, beat in the three eggs, and pour the whole quickly into a bowl. Serve in a jug, with grated nutmeg on the top. Elder Wine. Ingredients.—1 peck of elder- berries to every 3 gallons of water ; to every gallon of juice 3 lb. of sugar, 1 lb, of raisins, £ oz. of161 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 11 ground ginger, 6 cloves, and a little Jamaica pepper ; \ pint of brandy to every gallon of wine. Method.—Pour the water, boil- ing, over the picked and washed fruit ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain through a flannel bag. To every gallon of liquor allow the above proportions of sugar, raisins, and spice. Boil for one hour, skim well, and when lukewarm put it into a dry cask with 4 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast to every 9 gallons of wine. Allow it to ferment for a fortnight; add the brandy, and bung up the cask. Let it remain until Christ- mas. The liquor must stand in a warm place to make it work. Elder wine is usually mulled, and served with toasted bread and a little nut- meg. Ibousebolb Ibtnts. Hints for Washing Day. Flannels should be washed in water only slightly hot—rather more than tepid. Hot water shrinks them. In the water mix a little melted soap and a teaspoon- ful of ammonia (this whitens flan- nels that have become yellow, and disposes of any disagreeable odour which may adhere to materials worn next the skin). Only one article should be put into the tub at a time, as flannels, when left to soak, become hard and thick. They should be rubbed as little as pos- sible, as this, too, helps to thicken and shrink them. Rinse in tepid water (not cold), squeeze them tightly, or put them through a wringing machine, which is better. They should be shaken well before being hung out, and should be fre- quently pulled into shape while drying. When flannels have to be dried in the house, let the drying be done as quicMy as possible before a bright fire, as slow drying shrinks them. Blankets should be washed in water containing a little white soap, a tablespoonful of borax, and pne of spirits of hartshorn. Give them three waters if they are much soiled. Put them through a wring- ing machine, shake well to raise the pile, and dry quickly. Stockings, socks, etc., should be folded neatly and clapped between the hands before they are hung out. After being washed, white clothes should be allowed to lie in cold water for a few minutes before they are put into the boiler ; this frees them from all soiled water, which would otherwise get boiled into them. They should never be put into boiling, but always into cold water, and should be allowed to come slowly to the boil. When they have boiled ten minutes take them out. One or two tablespoon- fuls of pulverized borax, put into the water, will help to whiten them, and will not injure the finest linen. When taken out of the boiler, clothes should be rinsed first in hot, then in cold water ; this ex- tracts all the soap. Finally rinse them one by one in water with a little blue in it. Wring well, and dry speedily. Sprinkle a little water over those that require it, and fold neatly, ready for mangling or ironing.162 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Coloured articles, print dresses, etc., should be washed in hard water, and rinsed in salt and water, to prevent the colours running. To Make Cold Water Starch. Allow two tablespoonfuls of starch to one breakfast-cupful of water. Put the starch in a basin and mix it to a smooth paste with a little of the water, then add the remainder, and stir well. In another basin, mix with a pint of cold water 1£ teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved. Dip the collars, two or three at a time, first into the starch, then into the borax. Put them through a wring- ing machine, place them neatly one on the top of the other on a clean cloth, and iron at once. Wine Stains on Linen. Port-wine stains can be removed by at once pouring on them a little sherry ; and salt applied imme- diately is good for stains from all kinds of wine. The stain should be held in milk as it boils on the fire, and should be subsequently washed out in water. All but very obstinate stains yield to boiling milk, especially if applied before they become dry, and consequently set. Claret stains can often be removed by dipping them, while still damp, in boiling water, or by pouring boiling water over them several times, and rubbing with a clean brush. Ink stains should be washed in butter-milk ; or if they have had time to dry, salts of lemon should be applied. Fill a basin with boiling water, lay the stained article over it, wet the part affected, and rub the salt thoroughly in until the spot disappears. Be careful to wash well out afterwards. Chloride of lime bleaching liquid will re- move all stains from table-linen and calico. If used with great care, and not too often, it will do no harm, and be found very useful. It is prepared as follows : Pour boiling water on chloride of lime in proportion of 1 gallon to ^ lb.; bottle it, cork it tightly, and in using the liquid be careful not to stir it. To Wash Dishes, etc. Fill two basins or tubs with hot water. Let the water in one of them be just hot enough to bear the hand in ; the other should be nearly boiling. Place a little ex- tract of soap in the former, and wash the dishes first in that. Then rinse them in the other water. Put them on a tray to drain, and then dry them with a perfectly clean towel. If servants could but be induced to wash dishes in this way, mistresses would no longer have to complain of the sticky and smeary condition in which dishes are too often sent up te table. Glasses should be washed in cold water, wiped first with a glass- towel, and afterwards polished with a clean dry cloth. To Clean Iron and Enamelled Saucepans. Wash them thoroughly, inside and out, in hot soda and water, and if, as is usually the case, any hard substance adheres to the in- terior, scrub the latter with a brush made specially for the purpose. This brush should have a long handle, and should be fitted at the end and up one side with a number of short hard-bristles. After the brush has been used, rinse the pan well in clean water, and dry it thoroughly. The brush itself should be rinsed in hot soda and163 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. water, and hung up to dry. We need scarcely say that saucepan- lids should be as well washed and dried as the pans themselves. If anything has been burned in the pans, before washing them boil some soda and water in them, and then rub them inside with sand (nearly dry) until quite clean. To Clean Pewter Vessels and Tin Covers. Keep such vessels free of damp by always wiping well, and drying before the fire after use. Polish with sweet oil and finest whiting. To Clean Britannia-Metal. Put some sweet oil on a piece of fine woollen cloth. Rub the vessels well, and wipe with soft linen till cleani; then rub up with soft wash- leather and whiting. Before rubbing up they might be washed with boiling water and soap. To Wash Wine-Decanters. Put some soap and pearl-ashes into lukewarm water; pour it into the decanters, and clean with a proper brush. Fixed Stoppers. To get these out dip a towel in hot water, and wrap round the neck. Continue doing this till the stoppers loosen. Or drop a little sweet oil on the necks, and the stopper will soon come out if placed near the fire. To Remove Stains from Knife- handles. Rub with powdered pumice- stone and soap, and polish with dry whiting. To Remove Paint Stains from Glass. Wash the glass with a soft flannel dipped in very hot water in which soda has been dissolved. This will entirely remove the paint. To Clean Brussels Carpets. Materials — A pail of cold water with ox-gall mixed in it ; another pail of cold water ; two woollen cloths, and several dry towels. Method.—Stretch the carpet lightly over the floor, nail it down carefully, and then sweep it. Next dip one of the cloths into the ox- gall and water, and rub a portion of the carpet till a froth rises on it. Then dip another of the cloths into the other pail of water, and rub the carpet till the froth dis- appears, rinsing the cloth from time to time as you proceed. Then dry with a towel. Do all the carpet in the same way, and it will look not only cleaner but brighter than it was. The process should be done only in warm weather, when the windows can be left open for the carpet to get dry. To Clean Varnished Paint. Ingredients.—Warm water and soap; clean cold water ; a little beer. Method.—Wash the paint first with the warm water and soap (using a soft flannel and no brush); then go over it again with clean cold water; and finally, to give it a bright polish, rub over it a little beer, and polish. with a soft linen cloth. To Clean Unvarnished Paint. Ingredients.—Some warm suds ; 1 tablespoonful of ammonia ; a little whiting ; clean water. Method.—Mix the ammonia and a little whiting with the warm suds ; dip a flannel in this, and n—2164 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. well wash the paint ; finish with another flannel wrung out of clean water. To Clean Leather. Use milk, or white of egg, and polish with a dry duster. To Clean Plate. Mix a little bone-ash, water, and spirits of wine together into a thick paste ; rub it lightly over the plate with a soft rag (the plate should be previously washed in a strong lather of soap and water, and well dried) ; when the paste is dry, brush it off with a soft plate-brush, and polish with a dry leather. Polish for Bright Stoves and Steel. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of turpentine ; 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil ; emery-powder. Method. — Mix the turpentine and oil together with as much emery-powder as will make the mixture the thickness of cream ; put it on the articles to be cleaned with a soft flannel or rag, and polish off quickly with another soft duster ; then polish with a little dry emery powder, and a clean dry leather. To remove rust, spots, rub with fine emery-paper. To Clean Furniture. Ingredients.—2 parts lime-water to 1 part of linseed oil. Method. — Mix the lime-water and oil together, beat until quite creamy, then bottle for use. The furniture should first be washed with vinegar and water (about half a pint of vinegar to a quart of water), polished well with a soft cloth, then rubbed with the above mixture, which will be found ex- cellent. Apply the mixture with a bit of clean flannel, and polish with a soft duster. Furniture Cream. Ingredients.—\\ oz. white wax ; 2^ oz. beeswax ; 1 oz. Castile soap; 8 oz. turpentine ; 16 oz. water. Method.—Shave the white wax, beeswax and soap; add turpentine, and put into an earthenware vessel. Let it stand twelve hours. Then pour boiling water over it, and stir till quite cold. To Clean Hairbrushes. Wash them in cold water with a little soda or ammonia in it. This keeps the bristles white and stiff. Be careful that the water does not touch the backs of the brushes. Cleansing Wash for the Hair. Ingredients.—1 oz. of borax; 1 oz. of camphor ; 1 pint of i cold water. Method.—Crush the borax and camphor together to a fine powder, and put it into a bottle with the water. Rub the wash into the roots of the hair with a small piece of flannel or brush, and then dry the head vigorously with a towel. Scent Powders for Linen. Ingredients.—1 oz. coriander ; 1 oz. orris-root; 1 oz. rose-leaves; 1 oz. aromatic culamus; 2 oz. lavender flowers; £ drachm rho- dium-wood ; 5 grains musk. Method.—Mix all well together, reduce to a coarse powder, and place in muslin bags. Excellent. Antidote to Poison. If a person swallows any poison whatever, or has fallen into con- vulsions from having overloaded the stomach, an instantaneousHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 165 remedy — most efficient and ap- plicable in a large number of cases — is a heaped teaspoonful of common salt and as much ground mustard, stirred rapidly in a tea- cupful of water, warm or cold, and swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down before it begins to come up, bringing with it the re- maining contents of the stomach ; and lest there be any remnant of the poison, however small, let the white of an egg, a teaspoonful of strong coffee, milk, or oil be swal- lowed as soon as the stomach is quiet, because these very common articles nullify a large number of virulent poisons. Bread-and-Water Poultice. Put some crumbled bread (not crust) into a jug, and soak in boil- ing water. Stir with a spoon till well mixed, and, if too thin, pour off some of the water. Spread on a rag when using. If milk is used instead of water, boil for one minute. For Burns and Scalds. {Excellent.) Mix one part of Calvert’s pure crystallized carbolic acid with nine parts of pure olive oil. Heat the oil in a small pan, and add the acid. Keep the mixture in a bottle, and use it directly the emergency occurs, pouring it well over the burn or scald, and afterwards binding a clean piece of linen over the affected part. Carrot or Onion Poultice. Boil the carrots or onions till they make a soft pulp, and apply on a rag. Cold Cream. Ingredients.—2 oz. oil of sweet almonds ; 1 dr. white wax ; 1 dr spermaceti. Method.—Melt, and stir in a mortar till cold and smooth. Add either orange-water or rose-water till of the proper thickness. Put in a jar, and cover with skin or leather. Cough Mixture. Ingredients.—1 lb. brown sugar ; 1 lb. treacle; J pint white wine vinegar; 2d. oil of peppermint; 2d. laudanum. Method.—Mix treacle and sugar well till dissolved. Then add the vinegar, and enough water to make a quart of syrup. Lastly, put in the peppermint and laudanum. Diarrhoea Mixture. Ingredients.—^ oz. tincture of rhubarb ; ^ oz. tincture of cin- namon ; 16 drops of laudanum. Method.—Take half the quantity for one dose. For an infant or child a very safe cure is a small quantity of the very best white starch made into a jelly like arrow- root, with boiling water ; a little sugar may be added. This should be given two or three times a day Cure for Earache. Dip some cotton-wool in sweet oil, and powder with black pepper. This, placed in the ear, will speedily relieve the pain. Fomentations. Macerate elder-flowers, camo- mile-flowers, or poppy-heads in boiling water, which must be kept near the fire. Apply by dipping a piece of flannel in the decoction, and wringing it out very hot.166 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. A Good Lip-Salve. Ingredients. — Equal parts of almond or olive oil, and the best white wax. Method. — Melt the wax in a clean gallipot, set it on the side of the stove, and add the oil. Potato Poultice. (For Sore Throat.) Boil 4 or 5 potatoes in their jackets till soft, put them into an old white cotton stocking (this answers the purpose capitally), flatten with the hand (so as to crush the potatoes), and apply at once to the throat. This is an excellent remedy. Ringworm Dressing. Ingredients. — 2d. linseed oil ; 3d. white wax ; Id. red precipitate powder. Method.—Mix well for an hour over a good fire. This will cure ringworm after a few dressings. Cures for Hooping-Cough. i(i) Ingredients. — J dr. cochineal; 2 drs. salt tartar ; 1 pint of boil- ing water. Method.—Mix, and sweeten well with loaf-sugar. A large teaspoon- ful to be taken every hour after a fit of coughing. A dessert-spoonful for a child above nine years of age. (2) Finely ground alum, mixed with a small quantity of powdered sugar, is a good cure for hooping-cough. The dose, which should be ad- ministered three times a day, should vary from one to two grains, according to the age of the child, and should be gradually in- creased. After the fourth day, as many as seven grains may be given to a child eight years old. It must, however, have no milk diet, and care must be taken to keep it out of draughts. (3) Ingredients. — 8 English onions cut up into a pie-dish ; ^ lb. brown sugar spread over them. Method.—Cover over, and put into an oven for three hours. Strain, and bottle for use. Take a good teaspoonful every four hours.INDEX Almond cream, 117 milk, fresh, 145 pastry, 98 pudding, 103 Amy’s pudding, 103 Anchovy toast, 152 Appetizing sauce, 25 Apple drink, 145 dumplings, 103 fritters, 118 jelly, 118 meringue, 119 pancakes, 103 pie, 99 and rice pudding, 104 sauce, 25 snow, 118 trifle, 118 Apples with cream, 117 and custard, 118 Apricot jam, 91 pudding, 104 pudding, boiled, 104 Arrowroot blancmange, 119 to make, 145 Asparagus, 80 Aunt Nelly’s pudding, 104 Bacon, to boil, 60 to fry, 61 Baking-powder, 152 Balloon pudding, 104 Barley-water, 145 Beans, to boil, broad, 81 cold, 82 French, to boil, 81 French, stewed, 81 haricot, 81 Beef, stewed brisket of, 51 Beef, collared, 52 olives, 53, 78 palates, 48 potted, 54 pudding, 50 roast, 49 roll, 76 rolled ribs of, 54 boiled round of, 49 to salt, 49 scalloped, 76 sirloin of, 50 soup (kidney), 18 stealc and kidney pudding, 50 steak h la Parisienne, 50 steak pie, 50 stew, 51 tea, 145 Beetroot, pickled, 89 Biscuits, chestnut, 137 hard, 137 plain crisp, 137 rice, 137 Black-cap pudding, 104 Blancmange, arrowroot, 119 cornflour, 120 ground-rice, 123 semolina, 124 tapioca, 151 Boeuf, fillets de, 52 miroton de, 76 Brawn, 61 Bread, excellent brown, 136 very good, 136 another good, 136 and-butter pudding, 105 cake. 126 croutons of, 152 crumbs, to brown, 152168 INDEX. Bread—continued pudding, 105 sauce, 25 soup, 15 stale, 79 and water poultice, 165 Brill, stewed, 33 Britannia-metal, to clean, 163 Brocoli, cold, 82 Brown bread, excellent, 136 bread pudding, 105 Brown sauce, 26 Browned flour, 155 Browning for stock, 14 # Brussels carpets, to clean, 163 sprouts, to boil, 87 Bubble-and-squeak, 75 Bullock’s heart, roast, 51 Buns, 133 Burns and scalds, for, 165 Butter, to keep, cool, 140 rolled, 143 Cabbage, boiled, 82 dressed, 82 red, pickled, 89 soup, 15 Cabinet, cold, pudding, 105 Cake, 126 bread, 126 fruit, 128 gingerbread, 128 huckleberry, 128 one, two, three, four, 129 plain, 129 plum, 130 potato (Devonshire), 130 pound (German), 130 quality, 130 seed, 131 sponge, 132 tipsy, 132 wedding, 132 Cakes, scones, etc., remarks on, 125 Cakes, after-dinner, 127 cornflour, 126 honey, 128 icing for, 129 matrimony, 100 oatmeal, 129 parliament, 129 queen, 130 Cakes—continued rice, 131 rock, 131 short, 131 Shrewsbury, 131 tea, 132 tea (Emily), 127 tea (singing-hinnies), 132 tea (Yorkshire), 133 Calf’s head, boiled, 63 pie, 64 a la poulette, 75 soup, 15 Calf’s foot, baked or stewed, 146 jelly, 119 Calf’s liver and bacon, 64 stewed, 64 Calf’s sweetbread, 146 Canary pudding, 106 Caper sauce, 26 Carrot plum pudding, 106 soup, 16 Carrots, cold, 82 Cauliflower au gratin, 82 Cauliflowers, to boil, 82 Celery, how to keep fresh, 83 salt, 83 sauce, 26 soup, 16 stewed, 83 Cheese eggs, 139 macaroni, 141 pastry, 98 pudding, 139 sandwiches, 140 scraps, 79 straws, 140 toasts, 140 Cherokee sauce, 152 Cherry tart, 100 Chestnut biscuits, 137 soup, 16 Chicken, blocks, 152 broth, 147 scallop, 67 curried, 67 salad, 157 Chips, potato, 85 Chocolate, boiled, 153 pudding, 106 Chutnee sauce, a, 26 Cock-a-leekie, 16INDEX. Cocoa-nut pudding, lOri pyramid, 1 37 Cod, fried, 33 sounds, boiled, 33 Coffee, 153 to make, 153 as made in Paris, 153 cream, 120 Cold cream, 165 Collops, Scotch, 52 Condiments, list of, 12 Conservative pudding, 106 Cookies, 133 Cooking purposes, articles necessary for, 12 Cordial, egg, 147 peppermint, 156 Cornflour blancmange, 120 cakes, 126 Cough, cure for a, 147 mixture, 165 Crabs, to dress, 34 (Jream, almond, 117 apples, with, 117 clouted. 153 coffee, 120 Dutch, 120 Italian, 121 lemon, 122 snow, 120 Spanish, 124 velvet, 125 pudding, 107 puffs, 100 filling for. 100 Croutons of bread, 152 aux rognons, 65 Cucumber, dressed, 83 preserved, 92 soup, 17 Cup pudding, 107 puddings, 107 Currant bun, Scotch, 126 jam, black, 92 jelly, black, 92 pudding, black, 107 red, 107 Curried chicken, 67 Curried eggs, 140 Curry, the Admiral’s, 154 to boil rice for, 87 a wet, 154 , Custard, boiled, 120 pudding, baked, 107 sauce, 26 toast, 154 Custards, lemon, 122 Cutlet, stewed, 147 Damson jam, 93 Devonshire junket, 155 squab pie, 60 Diarrhoea mixture, 165 Dish, a supper, 159 Dishes, etc., to wash, 162 Dough dumplings, 108 Dough-nuts, American, 127 Dried peaches, stewed, 155 Dripping, 79 Dropped scones, 134 Dyspeptics, for, 147 Duck, boiled, 68 stewed with green peas, 68 Dumplings, apple, 103 dough, 108 Dutch cream, 120 Earache, cure for, 165 Economical stock, 14 Eels, stewed, 34 Egg-balls for soups, etc., 95 cordial, 147 drink, 147 flip, 148 to poach an, 142 pudding, 148 sauce, 26, 27 soup, 17 Eggs, cheese, etc., remarks on, 133 to boil, 139 h la bonne femme, 139 cheese, 139 curried, 140 fried, 141 in gravy, 141 ham and, 141 sur le plat, 142 to preserve, 142 savoury, 143 scrambled, 143 steamed, 143 on toast, 143 Eoe’s pudding, 108170 INDEX. Eschalots, pickled, 90 Fastnachts Krapfen, 127 Fat, pieces of, 79 Fennel sauce, 27 Fever, drink for a, 148 Fig pudding, 108 Fillets de boeuf, 52 Fillet, how to, 34 Findon haddocks, 36 Fish, remarks on, 32 baked, 35 cakes, 35 dressed, 35 pie, 35 pudding, 35 rock, 35 salt, 41 scallop, 35 soup, 17 Floating island, 121 Florence pudding, 108 Flounders, to fry, 39 Flour, browned, 155 Fomentations, 165 Fondu, 155 Food in season, 7-10 Forcemeat, remarks on, 95 balls for jugged hare, 95 Fowl, grilled, 68 pillau, 69 stuffing for, 96 Fowls, boiled, 68 roast, 69 Fruit cake, 128 Fruits, to preserve bottled, 92 Furmity, 148 Furniture, to clean, 164 cream, 164 Game, dressed, 148 Gateau de pommes, 121 German omelette, 141 pudding sauce, 27 soup, 17 Giblet pie, 69 Ginger nuts, 137 pudding, 108 snaps, 134 Gingerbread, 128 cake, 128 pudding, 108 Gladstone pudding, 109 Glass, to remove paint-stains from, 163 Glaze, 27 Goose, roast, 70 Gooseberry fool, 121 jam, 93 green, pudding, 109 Gravy, eggs in, 141 for hashes, etc., 27 Ground-rice blancmange, 123 rice pudding, 114 Grouse, roast, 70 Gruel, 148 oatmeal, 149 restorative, 149 Haddock, to boil, 36 Findon, stewed, 37 stewed, 36 stuffed, 36 Haddocks, Findon, 36 Haggis, Scotch, 58 Hair, cleansing wash for, 164 Hairbrushes, to clean, 164 Half-pay pudding, 109 Halibut, baked, 37 fish cakes, 37 Ham, to boil, 61 Devonshire cured, 61 and eggs, 141 potted, 62 Hard biscuits, 137 Hare, jugged, 70 hashed, 70 pie, 71 roast, 71 Helena pudding, 109 Herrings, baked, 37 to boil, 38 kippered, to cook, 38 Hominy pudding, 109 Honey cakes, 128 Hooping-cough, cures for, 166 Horseradish sauce, 27 Hot-cross buns, 134 Hotch-potch, 17 Huckleberry cake, 128 Icing for cakes, 129 Imitation foie gras, 95 Invalid cookery, remarks on, 144 jelly, 149171 INDEX. Irish stew, 59, 76 Italian cream, 121 Jelly, apple, 118 black currant, 92 calf’s foot, 119 invalid, 149 meat, 77 Junket, Devonshire, 155 Kedgeree, 38 Kidney soup, 18 stewed, 53 stewed, and calf’s liver, 53 Kidneys, sheep’s, 59 Kippered herring, to cook, 38 Knife-handles, to remove stains from, 163 Lamb, breast of, stewed, 56 chops, 56 cutlets, 56 haricot, 56 leg of, 57 loin of, braised, 57 boned quarter of, 57 shoulder of, 57 ragout of, sweetbreads, 57 sweetbreads of, 57 Lamb’s fry, 56 Larks, roast, 71 Leather, to clean, 164 Leek soup, 19 Lemon cheese-cake, 121 cheese-cake pudding, 110 cream, 122 custard puddings, 110 custards, 122 pudding, baked, 110 pudding, boiled, 110 rice pudding, 110 sauce for puddings, 28 Lemonade, 149 Lentil porridge, 83 soup, 19 Linen, scent-powders for, 164 wine stains on, 162 Linseed drink, 149 tea, 150 Lip-salve, a good, 166 Llandudno pudding, 111 Lobster, curried, 38 Lobsters, to boil, 38 Macaroni cheese, 141 dressed, 150 pudding, 111 soup, 19 Mackerel, to boil, 39 broiled, 39 creamed, 39 Maitre d’h6tel sauce, 28 Marrow pudding, 111 Marrows, vegetable, 83 Matrimony cakes, 100 tart, 101 Maud’s pudding, 111 Mayonnaise sauce, 28 Meat, remarks on, 45 how to choose, 45 how to cook, 46 to use up cold, etc., 75 curried, 77 how, is cut up, 45 fried, cakes, 77 hashed, 77 jelly, 77 liquor, 79 minced, 77 pudding, 78 sauce for cold, 30 scraps, 79 shape, 78 rissoles, 78 Medium stock, 14 Melted butter sauce, 29 Milk, fresh almond, 145 for the sick, 150 soup, 19 whey, 150 Mince pies, mince-meat for, 101 to make, 101 Mint sauce, 29 Miroton de boeuf, 76 Mixed pickle, 90 Mock-turtle soup, 19 Mulligatawny soup, 20 Mutton, haricot of, 58 boiled leg of, 60 boned shoulder of, stuffed, 60 steaks, 60 Mushrooms, stewed, 83172 INDtiX. Nasturtium seeds, pickled, 90 New College puddings, 111 Oatmeal cakes. 129 porridge, 156 pudding, 112 (Eufs en purde, 141 Omelet, 123, 142 German, 141 aux fines herbes, 142 Pickwick, 123 Prince of Wales, 123 souffle, 122 sweet, 125 Onion sauce, 29 soup, 20 Onions, pickled, 90 Spanish, 84 Orange marmalade, 93 transparent, 93 Ox-cheek, stewed, 54 Ox-tail soup, 20 Ox-tongue, boiled, 54 Oyster sauce, 29 soup, 21 Oysters, stewed in their own juice, 39 Paint, to clean varnished. 163 to clean unvarnished, 163 Pancakes, 122 quickly made, 155 rice, 124 Parsley sauce, 29 Parliament cakes, 129 Parsnip pudding, 112 Parsnips, cold, 84 mashed, 84 Partridge, dressed, 71 Paste, crisp, for tarts, 98 puff. 97 for meat pies, 98 Pastry, remarks on, 97 almond, 98 cheese, 98 to glaze, 99 to ice, 99 Pea soup, green, 21 winter, 22 Peaches, dried, stewed, 155 Pears, baked, 122 Peas, to boil, green, 84 cold, 82 Peas—continued \ pudding, 84 I to stew, 84 Peppermint cordial, 156 Pewter vessels, to clean, 163 Pheasants, roast, 71 Pickles, remarks on, 89 Pickwick omelette, 123 Pie, apple, 99 beefsteak, 50 Devonshire squab, 60 fish, 35 giblet, 69 hare, 71 pigeon, 71 pork and apple, 63 rabbit, 73 salmon, 41 ; sheep’s head, 59 shepherd’s, 76 veal, 66 Pigeon pie, 71 Pigeons, roast, 72 Pig’s feet, 62 pettitoes, 62 Pikelets, 135 Piquante, sauce, 30 Plaice, to fry, 39 Plate, to clean, 164 Plum cake, a good, 130 pudding, 112 Poison, antidote to, 164 Poor knights, 123 Pork chops, 62 roast leg of, 62 loin of, 62 to boil, pickled, 63 and apple pie, 63 Porridge, oatmeal, 156 lentil, 83 Potato cake, Devonshire, 130 chips, 85 crust for beef pie, 156 puff, 79 salad, 156 soup, 22 Potatoes, to boil, 85 to boil, new, 85 fried k la Frangaise, 85 mashed, 85 to roast, 86 savoury, 86173 INDEX. Potatoes—continued steamed, 86 cold, baked, 86 cold, fried, 86 cold, stewed, 86 Poultice, bread-and-water, 165 carrot or onion, 165 potato, 166 Poule, sweet lait de, 149 Poultry and game, remarks on, 67 Pound cake, German, 130 Preserves, remarks on, 91 Prince of Wales omelet, 123 Pudding, almond, 103 Amy’s, 103 apple and rice, 104 apricot, 104 boiled apricot, 104 Aunt Nelly’s, 104 balloon, 104 black-cap, 104 black-currant, 105 bread, 105 bread-and-butter, 105 brown-bread, 105 cold cabinet, 105 cake, 106 canary, 106 carrot, 106 cheese, 139 chocolate, 106 cocoa-nut, 106 conservative, 106 cream, 107 cup, 107 currant, 107 baked custard, 107 egg, 148 Eoe’s, 108 fig, 108 Florence, 108 ginger, 108 gingerbread, 108 Gladstone, 109 green gooseberry, 109 ground-rice, 114 half-pay, 109 Helena, 109 hominy, 109 baked lemon, 110 lemon, boiled, 110 lemon cheesecake, 110 Pudding—continued lemon rice, 110 Llandudno, 111 macaroni, 111 marrow, 111 Maude’s, 111 oatmeal, 112 parsnip, 112 plum, 112 Quaker’s, 113 raspberry, 113 rhubarb, 113 [113 rhubarb and custard, based rhubarb and tapioca, 113 rice, 114 rice and arrowroot, 114 roly-poly, 114 roly-poly jam, 114 sago, 115 sago, with apples, 115 steamed sago, 115 scrap, 115 semolina, 115 snow, 115 sponge-cake, 116 suet, 116 tapioca, 116 three minutes’, 116 toad-in-the-hole, 55 treacle, baked, 117 vermicelli, 117 Yorkshire, 117 Puddings, remarks on, 102 dough dumplings, 108 in haste, 112 lemon custard, 110 New College, 111 Quaker’s pudding, 113 Quality cake, 130 Queen cakes, 130 Rabbit, baked. 72 boiled, 72 pie, 73 soup, brown, 22 stewed, 73 stewed, with stuffing, 73 Rachel, cutlets i la, 65 Raspberry jam, 94 pudding, 113 vinegar, 156174 INDEX. Reckoner, a ready, 11 Red cabbage, pickled, 89 Rhubarb jam, 94 pudding, 113 and custard pudding, baked, 113 and tapioca, 113 Rice-and-arrowroot pudding, 114 biscuits, 137 to boil, for curry, 87 cakes, 131 and cheese, stewed, 151 croquettes, 157 fritters, 123 pancakes, 124 pudding, 114 savoury, 157 snowballs, 124 soup, white, 22 water, 79, 151 Ringworm dressing, 166 Rolls, sausage, 102 tea, 135 Vienna, 136 Roly-poly, baked, 101 pudding, 114 jam pudding, 114 R6ties h la minime, 157 Rump-steak, to fry, 54 Sage-and-onion stuffing, 96 Sago with apples, 115 pudding, 115 steamed, 115 Salad, chicken, 157 cooked, 158 lettuce, 158 mixture, 158 potato, 156 sauce, 30 Salads, an excellent vinegar for, 31 Sally Lunns, 135 Salmon, boiled, 40 collared, 40 crimped, 40 to dress dried, 40 patties, 40 pie, 41 pudding, 41 steaks, 41 Salt-fish, 41 to boil, 48 Sandwiches, cheese, 140 sardine, 42 Sardine sandwiches, 42 Sardines, cach^es, 42 Sauce, appetizing, 25 apple, 25 ~ bread, 25 bread, another, 25 brown, 26 caper, 26 celery, 26 cherokee, 152 chutnee, a, 26 custard, 26 egg (1), 26 egg (2), 27 fennel, 27 German pudding, 27 horse-radish, 27 lemon, for puddings, 28 lobster, 28 maitre d’hotel, 28 mayonnaise, 28 melted butter, 29 mint, 29 onion, 29 oyster, 29 parsley, 29 piquante, 30 pudding, a good, 30 salad, 30 for cold meat or fish, 30 shrimp, 30 sweet (1), 30 sweet (2), 31 tartare, 31 tomato, 31 white sauce, plain, 31 wine sauce, 31 Sauces, remarks on, 25 Saucepans, to clean iron and ena^ melled, 162 Sausage rolls, 102 Sausages, 63 Scent-powders for linen, 164 Scones, dropped, 134 Eliza tea, 134 sweet-milk, 134 Scotch, 135 wheat-meal, 136 Scotch broth, 22 sconea* 185INDEX. Scotch collops, 52 haggis, 58 soup, 19 Scrap pudding, 115 Sea-pie, 49 Semolina blancmange, 124 pudding, 115 Sheep’s head, 58 broth, 23 pie, 59 Sheep’s kidneys, 5 9 Shepherd’s pie, 76 Shrimp sauce, 30 Skansk grot, 159 Skate, crimped, 39 Smelts, fried, 42 Snow pudding, 115 Sole, baked, 151 au gratin, 43 Soles, to bake, 43 to boil, 43 to fry, 43 Soup, remarks on, 13 beef, 15 bread, 15 cabbage, 15 calf’s-head, 15 carrot, 16 celery, 16 chestnut, 16 cock-a-leekie, 16 cucumber, 17 egg, 17 Scotch fish, 17 German, 17 hotch-potch, 17 kidney, 18 leek, 19 lentil, 19 macaroni, 19 vegetable marrow, 19 milk, 19 mock-turtle, 19 mulligatawny, 20 onion, 20 ox-tail, 20 oyster, 21 pea, green, 21 pea, green (without meat), 21 pea, winter, 22 potato, 22 rabbit, brown, 22 Soup—continued rice, white, 22 Scotch broth, 22 sheep’s head, 23 tomato, 23 turnip, 23 vegetable, 24 clear vegetable, 23 vermicelli, 24 Spanish cream, 124 onions, 84 Spinach, 87 ; cold, 88 Sponge-cake pudding, 116 Sprats, broiled, 44 Sprouts, Brussels, to boil, 87 Squab pie, Devonshire, 60 Starch, to make cold-water, 162 Steak, stewed with onions, 54 Stock, browning for, 14 to clarify, 15 economical, 14 medium, 14 skimmings, 79 vegetable, for clear soup, for white soup, 14 Stoppers, fixed, 163 Stoves and steel, polish for, 164 Strawberry jam, 94 souffles, 124 Stuffing for fowls, etc., 96 sage-and-onion, 96 sweet, for turkey, 96 for veal or turkey, 96 Suet crust, 99 pudding, 116 Sugar, clarified, 159 Sweetbread, calf’s, 146 Sweets, etc., remarks on, 117 Tapioca blancmange, 151 pudding, 116 Tart, cherry, 100 matrimony, 101 open jam, 100 Tarts, crisp paste for, 98 a good crust for fruit, 98 Tar tare sauce, 31 Tea, 151 beef, 145, 146 for an invalid, 151 linseed, 15QINDEX. 176 Tea—continued how to make, 159 rolls, 135 Tin covers, to clean, 163 Toad-in-the-hole, 55 pudding. Toast, anchovy, 152 cheese, 140 custard, 154 eggs on, 143 hot, buttered, 160 how to make, 160 water, 151 Tomato farci, 88 sauce, 31 soup, 23 Tomatoes, stewed, 88 Tongue, jellied, 55 Treacle pudding, baked, 117 Trifle, 125 Tripe, 55 with onion sauce, 55 Trout, to pot, 44 Turkey, boiled, 73 to broil the legs of a, 74 hashed, 74 roast, 74 sweet stuffing for, 96 Turnip soup, 23 Turnips, mashed, 88 stewed in butter, 88 cold, 88 Turtle, mock, soup, 19 Veal, breast of, stewed, 65 roast fillet of, 65 V eal —continued Melton, 66 pie, 66 pudding, 79 rolled, 66 shoulder of, 66 stuffing for, 96 Vegetable marrows, 83 preserve, 94 soup, 19 Vegetable soup, 24 clear, 23 stock, for clear soup, 23 Vegetables, remarks on, 80 cold, 79 Velvet cream, 125 Vermicelli pudding, 117 soup, 24 Victoria sandwiches, 125 Vienna rolls, 136 Walnuts, pickled, 90 preserved, 94 Washing-day, hints for, 161 Weights and measures, tables of, 10 White sauce, plain, 31 soups, stock for, 14 Wine decanters, to wash, 163 elder, 160 to mull, 160 sauce, 31 stains on linen, 162 Yorkshire pudding, 117 tea cakes, 133 THE END. JjiLLlNO AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD,ADVERTISEMENTS. READ FENNING’S EVERY MOTHER’S BOOK. Ask your Chemist or Grocer for a FREE copy, or one will be sent POST FREE on application by letter or post-card. Direct—ALFRED FENNINGS, West Cowes, I.W. DO NOT LET YOUR CHILD DIE. Fennings’ Children’s Powders Prevent Convul- sions. Are Cooling and Soothing. FENNINGS’ Children s Powders. For Children Cutting their Teeth. To Prevent Convulsions. Do not contain Antimony, Calomel, Opium, Morphia, or anything injurious to a tender babe. Sold in Stamped Boxes at is. ijd. and 2S. gd. (great saving), with full directions. Sent post free. 15 stamps. Direct to ALFRED FEN- NINGS, West Cowes, I.W. Read FENNINGS* EVERY MOTHER’S BOOK, which contains valuable hints on Feeding, Teetning, Weaning, Sleeping, etc. Ask your Chemist for a FREE Copy. COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS. FENNINGS’ SLUIS HEALERS. j 1 he Best Remedy to cure all ft COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, ETC. 5 . Sold in Boxes at is. ijd. and 2s. 9d„ with direc- 2 tions. Sent post free for 15 stamps. Direct to A. S Fennings, West Cowes, I.W. 5g The largest-size boxes (2s. 9d.) (33 stamps post M a free) contain three times the quantity of the 2 " small boxes. M Read FENNINGS’EVERYBODY’S DOCTOR. P Sent post free for 13 stamps. Direct A. FENNINGS west Cowes, I.W. DO NOT UNTIMELY DIE! Sore Throats Cured with One Dose. Sore Throats Cured with One Dose FENNINGS’ FEVER CURER. Bowel Complaints cured with One Dose. Typhus or Low Fever cured with Two Doses. Diphtheria cured with Three Doses. Scarlet Fever cured with Four Doses. Cholera cured with Five Doses. Influenza cured with Six Doses. Sold in Bottles at is. i*d. each, with full directions, by all Chemists. Read FENNINGS’ EVERYBODY’S DOCTOR. Sent post free for 13 stamps. Direct r£= A. FENNINGS, West Cowes, I.W. POLISHES, I EPUAL TO BURNISHED STEEL USED WITHOUT WASTE OR DUST acFv? Lead .SOLD EVERYWHERE, manufactory . soho Square. London.^ w"—***^^ SIXTY YEARS’ imS. 1 trade markirecisteredT?8 14 or 33 Stamps For Indigestion, Headache, Biliousness, Constipation. INVALUABLE FOR LADIES. 3, CRANE COURT, FLEET STREET, LONDON, EC. BRONCHITIS CU1£ toothsome dishes:—ADDITIONAL RECIPES, ETC. Cadbury’s Cocoa, On the testimony of the Lancet, ‘ represents the standard of highest purity. It is entirely free from all foreign substances, such as Kala, Malt, Hops, etc., nor * is Alkali used to darken the colour (and so deceive the eye). It is very easily digested ; it imparts new life and vigour to those of delicate constitution, and can be taken safely and beneficially by the robust and delicate alike. It is “ a Perfect Food.55 ’ Robinson’s Patent Groats. Gruel. — Take of Robinson’s Patent Groats one tablespoonful, mix with a wineglassful of cold water, gradually added into a smooth paste ; pour this into a stewpan containing nearly a pint of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt or a little butter, or, if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits. When for an invalid butter had best be omitted. Robinson’s Patent Barley. Barley Water for Invalids.— Take of Robinson’s Patent Barley an ounce, mix with a wineglassful of cold water into a smooth paste ; pour this into a stewpan contain- ing a quart of: boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes ; then flavour with a small bit of lemon-peel or cinna- mon, and sweeten to taste. When the Patent Barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour. There are many cornflours, but none more delicately prepared than Kingsford’s Oswego, which is made from the finest parts of Indian corn or maize, and is guar- anteed to be perfectly pure. Many excellent dishes, both for the healthy person as well as for the invalid, having the Oswego Corn- flour for their chief ingredient, can be made, besides a nourishing gravy jelly thatis most appetizing. Kingsford’s Oswego should always be asked for, as it is the original of all cornflours, goes farthest, and gives greatest satisfaction ; while for custards, puddings, blanc-manges, ice creams, and other sweet dishes it is unsur- passed. Recipe. — The following is a good recipe for a nursery pudding: Three tablespoonfuls of Osweeo Cornflour to one quart of milk. Dissolve the flour in some of the milk, and mix with it two or three well-beaten eggs and a little salt. Heat the remainder of the milk till nearly boiling, then add the mixture and boil for four minutes, stirring briskly. Swinborne’s Isinglass. When jelly is required for in- valids get a packet of Swinborne’s Isinglass. This makes the best of jellies, and is most nutritious. Cream Blanc-mange. — 1 oz. packet of Swinborne’s Isinglass or Gelatine, 6 ozs. loaf sugar, 2 clean young laurel leaves ; 1 wineglass brandy, 1 pint new milk, and 1 pint cream or 2 pints milk. Soak the packet of isinglass or gelatine in a pint of new milk; add a pint of cream with two laurel leaves, and five or six ounces of loaf sugar, and boil for five minutes ; strain through muslin, stir occasionally till nearly cold, add a little brandy, and pour into moulds. This makes a very rich‘ TOOTHSOME DISHES!—ADDITIONAL RECIPES, ETC. blanc-mange, but all milk in place of the cream answers very well. Bird’s Custard Powder Provides not onlydelicious custard, but an endless variety of delight- ful dainty dishes. Bird’s custard advantageously takes the place of cream with fresh, stewed, or tinned fruit. It is used by all the leading Diplomees of the South Kensington School of Cookery. Hugon’s Refined Beef Suet (‘ Atora’). A supply of good fresh Beef Suet is one of the most important necessaries of the housewife, but, nevertheless, a thing not always to be obtained ; an article, how- ever, has been introduced by Messrs. Hugon and Co., Limited, Pendleton, Manchester, which supplies this want, and at the same time possesses great advant- ages over the raw suet. Hugon’s Refined Beef Suet is fresh English Beef Suet, which the manufacturers submit to a special refining process, the result of which is to produce an article entirely free from tissue, water, and all impurities. Stood in a cool, dry place, it will remain fresh and sweet for an almost indefinite time, thus being always at hand when required. It replaces cooking butter and lard for all purposes, so that only one article is necessary in the store-cupboard instead of three ; and it is more economical than raw suet, since only half to two- thirds as much is required ; also it can be used to the last scrap. No less remarkable are its time- and-labour-saving qualities, since, instead of the troublesome chop- ping, it can be flaked with a knife with great facility. Blending thoroughly with the flour, a digestible and wholesome pudding is the result, whereas raw suet bound up by the cellular tissue remains in lumps throughout the paste, causing the pudding to be indigestible. Nye’s Mincer. For mincing meat or vegetables Nye’s Patent Small Mincer or Masticator will be found useful. It is well recommended, and the maker claims that the food, whether cooked or uncooked, hot or cold, is rapidly and thoroughly minced, and when required may be kept hot during the process by previously immersing the machine in warm water. Also, that all gristle and sinew is prevented from mixing with the minced meat. Nixey’s Black Lead. Stoves can be best got into con- dition by using W. G. Nixey’s Eggshell Enamel Berlin Black, which dries perfectly in a few minutes, and produces a rich sur- face of uniform black unaffected by heat or damp, and upon this Nixey’s Celebrated Refined Black Lead, as used in the Royal house- holds, quickly develops a perfect polish, rich in quality, and un- equalled by any other brand, while it preserves the stove from rust and lasts a long while.ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.G. Small crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d. Cookery for Invalids and Others. By Lizzie Heritage, First-class Diplomee and Medallist in Cookery and Domestic Economy. CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. General Rules for Invalid Cookery—Convalescence—Diabetes— Pre-digested Foods—Vegetable juices—Remarks concerning Water, Wines, and Spirits, and Several Kinds of Sweeteners, etc.—CHAP. I. Wrinkles for the Kitchen, concerning Foods and Methods. (With remarks on Saccharine and its Uses.}— CHAP. II. Broths, Soups, Meat Essences and Jellies, Beef Teas, etc. (With Directions for adding Milk and Preparing Stock.)- CHAP. III. Fish Dishes. (With Hints for the Selection, Stuffing, and Cooking of Fish, and for the Preparation of Fish Sauces.)— CHAP. IV. Savoury Dishes, Meat, Poultry, Vegetables, etc. (With Hints on the Drawing and Trussing of Fowls.)—CHAP. V. Cereal Cookery, Savoury Puddings and Eggs. (With Hints on Cereals and Eggs.)—CHAP. VI. Sweet Puddings. (For Savoury Puddings, see Chapter V.)—CHAP. VII. Creams and Jellies, Bread and Cakes. (With Remarks on Gelatine, Isinglass, and Bread.)—CHAP. VIII. Beverages Hot and Cold, including Cocoa, Coffee and Tea. (With Directions how to Keep Drinks Cool and to test Milk.) “ The list of dishes, is copious and well selected, so that no difficulty will be found in providing ample variety to tempt fastidious appetites. The author has not introduced any article which is either troublesome to procure or too expensive for ordinary households, and she has made her directions for cooking and serving plain enough to be easily followed.”—Lancet. “A book of much practical value, containing a good deal of useful in- struction on the subject of invalid cookery generally and a number of recipes suitable for the sick room.”—Pall Mall Gazette. •Sixth Thousand. Fcap. «vo., boards, price Is. Depression: What it is, and how to Cure it. By A. E. Bridger, B.A., M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P.E., Late Physician to the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Author of “ Man and his Maladies,” “ The Treatment of Consumption,” etc. “ Deserves to be studied for its frank, healthy, and helpful advice.”—Sheffield Inde- pendent. HINTS FOR THE SELECTION OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. Second edition, 176 pp., cloth, price Is. 6d. The Pocket Dictionary of One Thousand Christian Names (Masculine and Feminine); with their Meanings Explained and Arranged in Four Different Ways. X3T Every Parent should consult this before deciding on a Child's Name. " This will be a useful and interesting book for those who like to learn the meaning of their own and their friends’ appellations. Parents should purchase it, as it might help them to name their children a little more originally than they do.”—Glasgow Herald. WITH STOTHARD’S ILLUSTRATIONS, ENGRAVED BY HEATH. Demy 8vo., half calf extra, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with a Sketch of Defoe, by Henry J. Nicoll. Note.—A complete, unabridged edition of Defoe’s masterpiece, with all the 22 beautiful Illustrations by Thomas Stothard, R.A., engraved by Charles Heath. These are now printed from the Original Copper Plates, which are still in perfect condition, having been steel-faced to preserve them. “ Mr. Hogg is to be thanked for re-issuing the ‘ Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with Stothard’s twenty-two designs engraved on copper by Charles Heath. Their charm is irresistible, and as book prints they rank among the classics of English art. They are delightful works. The text before us is complete, and well printed in a clear type. This edition is, therefore, excellent.”—Athenaeum.ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.G, NEW BOOKS OF TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE. WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. AYTON SYMINGTON. King Radama’s Word; or, John Aikin’s Adventures in Madagascar. By Robert Thynne, Author of “Matthew Flinders; or, How We have Australia,” etc. Large crown 8vo., 384 pp., handsomely bound, cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. CONTENTS. CHAPTER 1. I seek Employment.—2. Raboba.—3. Alone.—4. On my own Resources.— 5. Captain Le Sage.—6. We go on with the “Business.”—7. We Start for the Interior. —8. Wild Cattle.—9. The Weeping-Place of the Hovas.—10. Crocodiles.—11. Strange Bed-fellows.—12. The Great Forest of Alamazaotra.—13. Imerina.—14. Radama.— 15. The Oath of Blood.—10. The Treaty is Signed.—17. An Unwelcome Surprise.— 18. M. Robin.—19. Tricks of Trade.—20. Panjaka.—21. The “Badger. ’—22. St. Mary’s Isle.—23. Inside the Harbour.—24. Rahona’s Story.—25. The Oath of Murder.— 26. We Start for Antananarivo.—27. The Plain of Ankay.—28. The King Receives Us.— 29. Negotiations.—30. An Oratorical Artifice.—31. The King has his Way.—32. The Village of the Sulky.—33. Rasilimo.—34. Playing with Fire. —35. Abdalla.—36. An Awkward Situation.—37. A Retreat. Appendix, bringing Events in Madagascar down to the Present Time. WITH EIGHT FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS. The Dacoit’s Mine; or, A Fight for Fortune. By Charles R. Kenyon, Author of “ The Young Ranchmen,” etc. Large crown 8vo., 384 pp., handsomely bound, cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. CONTENTS. CHAPTER 1. A Tempting Project.—2. A Not Uneventful Start.—3. Wadda Throws off the Mask.—4. A Lively Night.—5. A Few Surprises.—6. An Inspiriting Find and a Dis- piriting Finish.—7. The Mystery of the Mine.—8. A Strange Apparition.—9. An Engineering Feat and an Intruder.—10. Run to Ground.—11. A Fruitless Search. —12. Taken at a Disadvantage.—13. Charging the Enemy.—14. Shoulder to Shoulder. —15. Besieged.—16. A Double Surprise.—17. Plan of Performance.—18. Foiled.— 19. Hope and Despair—20. Golam to the Rescue.—21. A Bold Bid for Freedom,— 22. Desperate Odds.—23. A Fiery Advent.—24. Vicissitudes.—25. A Midnight Prowler.—26. The Enchanted Isles,—27. Rubies and Bullets,—28. Heroes Three.— 29. A Desperate Defence.—30. A Grateful Dacoit and a Marvellous Cave.—31. Plot and Counter Plot.—32. Caught Napping.—33. Driven to Bay,—34. For Dear Life.— 35. Deliverance and a Deluge.—36. The End of the Matter.ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. A TRILOGY OF BOOKS ABOUT WALES. ITS HISTORY, LEGENDS, FOLK-LORE, Etc. By MARIE TREVELYAN. Dedicated by Gracious Permission to Her Royal Highness the DUCHESS OF YORK. 1. Glimpses of Welsh Life and Character. Crown 8vo., 408 pages, vellum cloth, “There are stories of ancient super- stitions and customs, of poets and musi- cians, of pioneers of dissent, of eccentric persons, of folk-lore and ghosts, some of which are new to us, and, new or old, are told in a spirited style. Spirited also are the pictures of religious festivals, of the old Welsh Tory gentleman, the Welsh farmer, the hiring fair, the Eisteddfod, and other national products and institu- tions.”—Saturday Review. illuminated, price 6s. ; gilt edges, 6s. 6d. ‘ ‘ A laudable attempt, by means of social sketches, pictures of character, legends and traditions, and studies of folk-lore, man- ners, customs, and other local characteris- tics and peculiarities, to awaken English interest in the land and life of the Cymru.” — Times. Glimpses of Welsh Life and Character has been a theme of admiring conversation since the first day of its appearance.”— Western Mail, Cardiff. Dedicated by permission to The Right Honble. LORD WINDSOR, Lord Lieutenant of Glamorganshire. 2. From Snow- don to the Sea: stirring STORIES of NORTH and SOUTH WALES. Crown 8vo., 432 pages, cloth, emblazoned, price 6s. ; gilt edges, 6s. 6d. “This is one of the best collections of Welsh tales we have yet seen It is a book which every lover of romance should purchase.”—Newcastle Chronicle. “ Some of the specimens of legendary lore are of absorbing interest, and the last is actually dramatic in its intensity.”— Weekly Citizen. “Will be read and enjoyed far beyond the limits of the Principality.”—Aberdeen Free Press. 3. “Rich in the traditions, folk-lore, and romances which have been woven into stories by this able authoress.”—Sheffield Independent. Dedicated to the Immortal Memory of Llewelyn ap Gruffydd, last Native Prince of Wales. The Land of Arthur: its Heroes and HEROINES. Crown 8vo., 440 pages, cloth, illuminated, price 6s. ; gilt edges, 6s. 6d. “We warmly commend the book. Get it at once.”—Dundee Courier. “Full of old-world romance and chivalry.”—Christian World. Her Majesty the QUEEN—H.R.H. the PRINCE OF WALES,—H.R.I1. the PRINCESS OF WALES—H.R.H. the DUCHESS OF YORK,— H.R.H. the DUCHESS OF TECK, have been graciously pleased to accept copies of the above books.ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.0. POPULAR COOKERY BOOKS. Medium 16mo., 128 pages, boards, printed in brown ink, price Is. 1. What shall we have for Breakfast? or, Everybody’s Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland, Author of “ The Afternoon Tea-Book.” “An epicure, or rather a glutton, might after reading Miss Maitland’s book answer her title question by saying, ‘Everything you have got here, please.’ It is a worthy little book.”—Manchester Guardian. Dedicated to H.R.H. the Duchess of ALBANY. Second Edition. Eleventh Thousand. Medium 16mo., price Is. 2. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. “A most useful little manual.”—Glasgow Herald. Crown 8vo., 160 pages, price Is., strongly bound in linen cloth. 3. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland. The Book contains One Hundred and Twenty-five Recipes for very Cheap Wholesome Dishes, Hints for Hard Times, Remarks about the Right Kinds of Food, Prices of Various Foods, Specimen Breakfasts, How to Spend the Money and do the Cooking, About Cooking Pans and Tins, Best Ways of Cooking Meat, How to Cook Fish, Invalid Cookery, etc. The Cookery Primer will be found very useful in Elementary Schools, as well as in Cottage Homes. Eleventh edition, crown 8vo., 392 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. 4. Dainty Dishes. Receipts collected by Lady Harriet St. Clair (late Countess Munster). Thirteenth Edition, crown 8vo., 156 pp., artistic paper boards, price Is. 5. Dainty Dishes. Cheap Edition. Price Is. “That it has reached its twelfth edition vouches for the popularity of this little book.” —Pall Moll Gazette. “We have rarely seen a book in which so much information has been compressed into so small a space.”— The Chef. Third and Enlarged Edition (Thirteenth Thousand), crown 8vo. 180 pp., artistic paper boards, price Is. 6. Toothsome Dishes : Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. “Just the work for a domestic manager to consult and esteem."—Daily Telegraph. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, boards, price Is. 7. The Housewife’s Handy-book. Three Hundred and Fifty Useful Every-day Recipes. By C. J. S. Thompson. Author of “ The Best Thing to Do,” etc. “ An exceedingly useful supplement to an ordinary cookery or household book. . . . Another class of recipes is for toilet preparations.”—Sheffield Independent. 8. Drinks pf all Kinds, Hot and Cold, for all Seasons (including Temperance and Restorative Drinks). By Frederick and Seymour Davies. Fcap. 8vo., 152 pp., price Is. “ This is a capital little manual, containing numerous recipes for the best summer and winter drinks, both British and ForeignSheffield Independent. 9. Cookery for Invalids and Others. See opposite page.ADVERTISEMENTS. Iiondon: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Bow, E.C. NEW BOOKS OF TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE. MATTHEW FLINDERS; or, How we have Australia. Being the True Story of Captain Flinders’ Adventures and Explorations. By Robert Thynne, Author of “The Story of Australian Exploration.” With Nine Illus- trations and a Chart. Crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6<1., gilt edges, 4s. “Between these covers all information regarding Australia’s growth is given in simple but graphic language, and the prominent part played in it by Captain Flinders. . . . It is exciting and readable from beginning to end.”— European Mail. “ The book is not only entertaining, bnt has also the merit few boys’ books have—and which is not missed by the boys—of being instructive and histori- cally accurate.”—Dover and County Chronicle. “It is a book after a boy’s own heart, and should prove one of the most popular gift-books of the season.”—Teachers' Aid'. “ This is an ideal boy’s book, for the narrative takes the form of an absorb- ing story by an eye-witness, although fact has not been sacrificed to fiction.”— Times of India. “In no portion of the narrative has fact been sacrificed to romance, so that the reader will obtain genuine instruction as well as entertainment.”— Christian Million. “ This book will make a capital prize or gift-book for the elder boys of our schools. . . . Every boy should know the story of the explorer who gave the name of ‘ Australia ’ to the scene of his arduous labours. The book is written in a pleasant vein, is well got up, and deserves wide popularity.”— The Schoolmaster. UNDER THE NAGA BANNER. By Charles J. Mansford, Author of “ Shafts from an Eastern Quiver,” etc. With Eight Illustrations by J. Ayton Symington. Crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6J., gilt edges, 4s. “ Mr. Mansford has already given us one or two excellent Indian tales, but the one now before us is, we think, even more exciting and full of adventure than any of its predecessors. ”—Bookseller. “ Mr. Mansford is an ideal story-writer for boys.”—Sheffield and Rotherham Independent. “ The book shows that Mr. Mansford has lost none of the skill which dis- tinguished ‘Shafts from an Eastern Quiver.’”—British Weekly. “ The siege of Manipur and the heroism of Grim wood and his wife are still remembered, and it is about the people and country in that neighbourhood that a most exciting story has been written.”—The Christian Million. “ The situations occurring in the tale are dramatically conceived and carried out, more particularly when the adventurers come across the great treasure of Lawi in the latter’s weird tomb. This passage is equal to anything of Rider Haggard’s. Old boys as well as young will greatly enjoy this thrilling recital of daring deeds and unique adventure.”—Dundee Advertiser.ADVERTISEMENTS. London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Bow, E.C. ISeur Books. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo., 216 pp., cloth, price 2s. 6d. THE HANDBOOK OF SOLO WHIST: By A. S. Wilks. Containing a General Explanation of its Methods, Principles, and Practice, with Illustrative Hands, the Innovation in the Play of the Three-handed Game, whereby the Proposal and Acceptance Call is embodied, and the New Standard Code of Laws adopted by the leading Sporting Clubs. IgiP3 Only here is the New Standard Code of Laws to be found. CONTENTS. Introduction. The Game. The Laws. Propositions and Acceptances. The Solo. The Misere. The Abondance. The Misere Ouverte. The Abondance Declaree. Illustrative Hands. Technical Terms. Dummy Solo. Note.—This New Work incorporates the gist of “ How to Play Solo Whist,” by C. F. Pardon and A. S. Wilks, formerly published by Messrs. Chatto and Windus, but now the property of Mr. John Hogg. “ Players of Solo Whist have long felt the absence of any work which could be regarded as an admitted authority. Mr. Wilks has, in the book under notice, fully met that requirement.”—Morning Post. “It is undoubtedly the best handbook of the fascinating game yet published. It contains a general explanation of the methods of the game, principles, and practice, with illustrative hands—a capital feature—and the new standard code of laws adopted by the leading sporting clubs. ”—Birmingham Post. “ This is the best handbook of this fascinating game we have ever seen.”— Sporting Times. “ What in the way of a text book and standard is good enough for the chief sporting clubs of London, where Solo is regularly and strictly played, should be good enough, and will be, for the country at large.”—Sportsman. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, price Is. THE SPAS OF WALES: their Medicinal and Curative Properties, with Information as to Scenery, Golf, Fishing, Shooting, Lawn Tennis, Cycling, and General Attractions at each of the Spas. By T. R. Roberts. “No climate, no waters, no baths, no air, can be obtained or enjoyed on the Continent for the ‘cure* of any disease whatsoever—we say this advisedly—which cannot be obtained in as great, or even greater, efficiency within the limits of our own island.”—Lancet. “Those who have neither time nor money for adventures abroad in search of health . . . would be well advised to try in the early autumn the Spas of Wales.”—Speaker.ADVERTISEMENTS. Indispensable to Every Home. USEFUL ALIKE IN PALACE, MANSION, OR COTTAGE. NYE’S NEW PATENT COMBINED MINCING AND SAUSAGE MACHINES Are indispensable for preparing an immense variety of Dainty Dishes. They are beautifully finished and last a lifetime. Combine all the latest improvements. Prices 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 21/-, 30/-, 42/-, 63/-, carriage paid. These Machines remove all sinews and skin, so that these objectionable parts are prevented from mixing with the minced meat. For other patterns see C atalogue. Nye’s are the original patents. Beware of imitations with LEAD interior fittings. Demand Nye’s and refuse all others, or order direct. NYE’S PATENT MILLS FOR COFFEE, PEPPER, ETC. The only way to be absolutely certain of getting genuine and freshly ground Coffee, etc., is to grind it at home as required. These Mills are handy, quick-grinding, and very durable, the grinding surfaces being hardened by a peculiar process. They are arranged to clamp on table or screw to wall, as preferred. Prices, 4/6, 6/-, 8/-, 10/-, 14/-, 20/-, carriage paid. NYE’S IMPROVED KNIFE-CLEANING MACHINES. The best quality that can be made. Only make supplied under special contract to H.M. Government. No. 3, 32/- ; No. 4, 45/- ; No. 5, 67/6, best quality. A cheaper pattern, “The Regent,” No. 3, 25/- ; No. 4, 35/- ; No. 5, 50/-. Carriage pa:d to any railway station in the kingdom. Illustrated Catalogue of NYE’S Inventions sent free on application. NYE’S MACHINE DEPOT, 139, OXFORD ST. (Opposite Wells Street), LONDON, W.