10 THE INTERNAL ORGANS. gives up carbonic acid gas—the product of the decomposition of the tissues—and takes in exchange oxygen from the air breathed in. Tlie blood, thus restored to a bright red colour, and rendered once more serviceable for its work in the tissues, issues from the capillaries of the lungs, and enters small veins, which unite to form the large pulmonary veins that lead into the left auricle. This secondary circulation from the right ventricle, and through the vessels of the lungs to the left auricle, is called the pulmonary circulation. On Plate V. may be seen the trunk of the aorta (A) leading from the left ventricle {LV), the junction of the vena cava superior (FN) with the right auricle {RA), the commencement of the pulmonary artery {Ap) at the right ventricle (RF), and the junction of the pulmonary veins (F/:») with the left auricle (RA). Finally, we must mention the valves of the heart, of which the tricuspid is situated between the right auricle and right ventiicle, and the bicuspid or mitral between the left auricle and left ventricle (Plate V.). They both serve to prevent the blood from passing from ventricle to auricle, but offer no obstruction to its passage in the opposite direction. There are also valves at the commencement of each of the two great arteries—the aorta and the pulmonary artery. These are called the semilunar valves, and serve to prevent the blood from passing back into the ventricles at the times w'hen the walls of these cavities of the heart are relaxed. THE INTERNAL ORGANS. [See Plate V. of Model.] The body consists of two great cavities—the chest and the abdomen; and those contain the heart, which has already been described, and the organs of resphation and digestion. THE CHEST. We have already seen that the renovation of the blood is carried on in the lungs by the-air we breathe. This air enters the body by means of the nose and mouth, and then reaches the larynx or voice-box (20), which is connected with the tongue by the hyoid bone (19). Thence it passes downwards through the windpipe (22) into the lungs. The larynx is composed chiefly of cai’tilage, and contains the two vocal ligaments, which, when one is speaking, are stretched and brought close together, so that the air passing between sets them in lapid vibration. When one is breathing quietly, the vocal ligaments are relaxed and farther apart, and allow the air a free passage. When food or drink is being swallowed, the larynx is covered for the moment by a lid called, the epiglottis, so as to prevent any of it entering the windpipe. The windpipe or trachea (22) consists of a series of rings of cartilage, and is covered inside with a tender velvety skin called the mucous membrane. The windpipe and larynx are partially covered by the thyroid gland (21), the enlargement of which is sometimes the cause of croup. The windpipe divides into two_ branches in the upper part of the chest. These are called the bronchi (23), and they subdivide in the lungs, forming smaller air-passages (bronchial tubes), which at last terminate in the air-cells already mentioned.