13 ORGANS OF SENSE. Motor nerves and nerves of sensation often run side by side, and are so much alike that it is impossible to distinguish between them. The brain is the great nerve centre to which all sensory impressions are transmitted, and from which the commands to the muscles proceed. The brain (Fig. 3) is surrounded by three membranes, and is contained in the skull. It consists of two pi’incipal divisions — the greater brain (a) and the lesser brain (6); the former being situated in the front and upper part of the cranium, and the latter in the back and lower part. Each of these is further divided into a right and a left half by a deep fi.'sure; and the upper surface of the greater brain is formed into numerous folds or convolutions with depressions between them. Twelve pairs of nerves proceed from the under surface of the brain, and these lead respectively to the nose, eye, ear, other parts of the head, and the trunk; but the greater number of nerves pass through the cavity of the occipital bone, and down the tubular cavity formed by the spinal column, all running together as the spinal cord (d). Between each pair of vertebrae two nerves branch off from this cord, one from each side, and run to corresponding parts of the body. Every portion of the body has its own system of nerves— the arm, the neck, the loins, etc., each possessing one or more. The spinal cord, like the brain, is surrounded by three membranes. Its upper portion, called the medulla oblongata (c), which penetrates the cavity of the brain, sends four pairs of nerves to certain muscles and to several of the important internal organs. Fig. 3.—The Beain and Spinal Coed. ORGANS OF SENSE. THE EYE. The eye is well protected in the bony eye-socket, which is so well lined with fat that all its movements are rendered perfectly easy. These movements are produced by six muscles, which are fastened round the eye-ball, and any irregularity in their action causes what is known as squinting. The eye-lids protect the front portion of the eye; the eye-lashes tend to prevent dust from falling on it; and the eye-brows prevent the perspiration from running into the eye from the forehead. The eye-ball (Fig. 4) is nearly spherical in shape, and is formed of several different coats, lying one within the other. The strongest of these coats is the outer one, called the sclerotic coat («]), which gives form and firmness to the ball. It is opaque, and shuts out all light fmm the sides; but continuous with