5 THE SKELETON. On Plate II. are shown, between the vertebrae, what are known as the intervertebral cartilages, consisting of flat pads of gristle, which unite the bones, and give the spinal column its elasticity. The breast-bone {st) is situated in the front portion of the trunk, opposite the spinal column, and its sides are united to the cartilaginous ends of the flrst seven ribs. The ribs (lr-12r) are twelve pairs of bones connecting the spinal column with the breast- bone. For the sake of clearness, the back portions have been indicated only in the case of the flrst three pairs. Each rib consists of a curved bony portion, and a softer piece of cartilage connecting it with the breast-bone. The cartilages of the upper seven pairs extend direct to the breast-bone, and these ribs are therefore called true ribs. The other five pairs are known as false ribs. The eighth, ninth, and tenth are each connected with the cartilage of the next above it; but the ends of the last two pairs (Hr and 12r) are quite free. C. BONES OP THE UPPER LIMBS. These consist of four movable and connected parts: the shoulder, the upper arm, the forearm, and the hand. The bones of the shoulder are the collar-bone (clavicle) and the shoulder-blade (scapula). The collar-hone (cl) is a strong curved bone which forms the connec- tion between the upper limbs and the trunk, passing from the shouldex'- blade to the breast-bone. The shoulder-blade (sc)—a flat, broad bone the shape of a triangle —is situated on the back surface of the chest, and is articulated on one side with the collar-bone, and on the other with the upper arm, by means of strong ligaments. The upper arm or humerus {h) fits by means of its ball-shaped, thick upper end or head into a cavity in the shoulder-blade. The interior of this cavity and the exterior of the ball-shaped head are covered with a thin layer of cartilage, and a membrane from which a slimy fluid is continually exuding. By means of this fluid the move- ments of the joint are greatly facilitated. This is the case with all the movable joints of the body. In addition to this they are also surrounded by fibrous bands known as ligaments, in order to lessen the risk of dislocation. The" lower end of the upper arm is also rounded, and forms the elbow-joint with the two bones of the forearm. These two bones are known as the radius (»•) and the ulna (u), and their lower ends are articulated with the hand. The bones of the hand may be divided into the carpal bones (w), consisting of eight small bones, arranged in two rows, and bound together by strong ligaments; the five metacarpal bones (m), passing through the palm of the hand; and the finger bones, of which the thumb has two and the other fingers three. The carpal bones, together with the lower ends of the hones of the forearm, form the wrist. D. BONES OP THE LOWER LIMBS. l.-Boxss of the These include the bones of the hip {H), the thigh (/), the calf, and Lower Leg and Foot. the foot. The tops of the two hip-bones are connected behind with the sacrum [S), at the lower end