ORGANS OF SENSE. 15 When sound strikes the drum of the ear, the latter is set vibrating; and as the handle of the hammer is attached to the drum, the motion is communicated to this bone, and thence to the other hones, till it reaches the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. The internal ear or labyrinth is situated inside the temporal bone. It consists of three parts—the vestibule, the semicircular canals (?i, o, and ^), and the cochlea {qr). It is completely filled with a fluid called tlie perilymph. Within the labyrinth the ends of the auditory nerve spread out into numerous delicate fibres, which communicate with the membranes of the cochlea and semicircular canals. These fibres convey the sound-vibrations to the brain. THE ORGAN OP SMELE. This is of a much simpler construction than either the eye or the ear. The upper part of the sides of the nose and the upper part of the partition between the nasal cavities are cover ed with a mucous membrane, in which the filanrents of the olfactory nerve terminate. Thus only this portion of the nose assists in producing the sensation of smell. Tire lower portion is supplied with other nerves, which, when irritated, give rise to other sensations such as that which occasions sneezing. TASTE. The sensation of taste is located in the tongue and palate. Just as the nose can receive olfactory impressions only from gases, so the organ of taste is afiected only by fluids. Thus, if you place a little salt on the tongue, it cannot be tasted until it commences to dissolve. The tongue consists of a number of muscles; and be.sides being the organ of taste, assists in mastication and swallowing, and is an impox’tant organ of speech. The nerves which convey the impressions of taste arise in the base of the brain, and their delicate branches terminate in small wart-like prominences, which may easily be seen on the upper surface of one’s own tongue. TOUCH. The sensation of touch is spread over the whole body. It really consists of three separate sensations : one by which we can determine the solidity, shape, roughness, and other properties of the surface of a body; another by which we can estimate weight; and a third enables us to distinguish between different temperatures. These sensations are due to the nerves which proceed from the brain and spinal cord, and penetrate into every portion of the skin. The greater the number of nerve fibres in a certain area of skin, the more delicate is its sensitiveness. It is for this reason that the tongue, the lobes of the ear, and the lips are far more sensitive than the skin of the back or upper arm.