THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 8 (11 a), cut across. They are surrounded by a strong fibrous membrane, the back portion of which may be seen in Plate IV. (11), where its curved lower extremity is plainly shown. The front portion, with its sinewy oblique stripes, is shown in Plate III. (12). The broad muscles are the external oblique (Plate III. 11), the upper portion of which fills the spaces between the teeth of the serratus magnus (Plate III. 10); the internal oblique, which lies beneath it; and, still deeper, the trans- verse muscle (Plate IV. 10). MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. The muscles numbered 16 on Plate III. serve partly to turn the leg inwards, and partly to stretch it out. The muscles which extend or straighten the leg are joined together at the knee- cap by a strong tendon. The deeper muscles, shown on Plate IV. (9), serve to draw the thighs together. MUSCLES OP THE LEG. The accompanying diagrams show the prin- cipal of these. In Fig. 2 A we see the muscle that covers the front of the shin-bone, and raises the foot (1), the long tendon that lifts the great toe (2) , the tendon that moves the other four toes (3) , and the long and short calf muscles (4 and 5), which move the foot. In Fig. 2 B the calf muscles of the back of the leg are shown. The outer layer is formed by the powerful double muscle (6) which raises the heel. This is cut across and moved aside in order to show the long (7) and short (8) muscles, the front surfaces of which have already been noliced in Fig. 2 A. Fig. 2.—The Muscles of the Leg. A.—From the front. B.—From 'behind. THE HEAET AND BLOOD-YESSELS. [See Plates I. and Y. of Model.] The heart {H') is situated in the front of the chest, between the lungs, and is surrounded by a membranous pouch-like skin. The wall of the heart is formed of powerful muscles, which contract and relax at regular intervals. The interior is divided by a partition into two cavities, right and left, which have no dhect means of communication with each other. Each half is again divided into two chambers : one, a small one, called the auricle; and the other, a larger one, called the ventricle. On Plate V. two sections of the heart are shown in order to display the interior; and there you will see the four cavities indicated as follows ;— Right auricle = RA. Right ventricle = RV. Left auricle = LA. Left ventricle = LV.