ORGANS OF SENSE. u it in front is the cornea (a), which is clear and transparent, and more convex than the rest cf tl c surface. Within the sclerotic coat lies the choroid coat (e), in which the Flood-vessels of the eve-ball are distributed ; and within this is the retina (/), an expansion of the optic nerve (d), which connects the eye-ball with the brain. The interior of the eye is divided by the crystalline lens (c) into two cavities, a small one in front and a larger one behind. The lens is a semi-solid and perfectly transparent body, which Ls capable of slight alterations in form. The space in front of it is filled with a watery fluid knowm as the aqueous humour, and that behind it with a transparent semi-solid substance called the vitreous humour. Fig. 1.—Section of the In front of the lens there is a circular perforated screen called the iris (g); and it is this that gives the colour, generally blue or brown, to the front of the eye-ball. The hole in its centre is the pupil (h), through which light is admitted to the interior. The ii-is contains numerous muscular fibres, by means of which the size of the pupil is enlarged or diminished according as a smaller or larger amount of light strikes the eye. The rays that pass into the eye are so refracted by the cornea, aqueous humour, crystalline lens, and vitreous humour, that small images of the objects we look at are formed on the retina In connection with the eye we must also mention the lachrymal or tear system, which serves to keep the eye-ball moist, and, with the aid of the movements of the eye-lids, is always, as it were, cleaning the eye- ball. It consists of the lachrymal glands (Plate IV. l-i), which prepare the lachrymal fluid, and the lachrymal canals (15), by means of which the fluid passes into the nasal ducts (17), and thence into the nose. THE EAR. The ear consists of the external, middle, and internal ears. The external ear comprises a cartilaginous pinna or wing (Fig. 5, a), and the auditory canal (b) leading into the middle ear. The pinna serves to collect sound- waves and reflect them into the canal; and the canal secretes the substance known as ear-wax. Between the external and middle ears is a mem- branous skin called the drum of the ear (c), and this forms a complete separation between the two pa its. The middle ear or tympanum is full of air, and communicates with the pharynx by means of a semi- cartilaginous, semi-bony tube called the Eustachian tube. On the other side is the internal ear or labyrinth, shut olf from the middle ear by two membranous skins, called respectively the fenestra rotunda and the fenestra ovalis. In connection with the latter there are three small bones, called respectively the hammer (Fig. 5, 1), the anvil (2), and the stirrup (3), whicli fit into one another.