9 THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. The auricles overlap the ventricles externally, and are named from their resemblance to an ear. The one on the right side is shown clearly on Plate I. {RA). The activity of the heart may be gathered from the fact that in one minute it alternately contracts and expands about sixty times. When it expands, blood flows into it; and when it contracts, this blood is expelled again. From the left ventricle the blood is forced into the main artery of the body, known as the aorta {A). This artery splits into three smaller ones: one, on the right, called the innominate; and two on the left, called respectively the left subclavian (.4s) and the left carotid (c) arteries. The innominate artery is partly hidden on the plates, but it divides into two vessels, called the right subclavian (As) and the right carotid (c). Each of the carotid arteries divides into an outer and an inner branch. The subclavian artery is continued on to the armpit, where it is known as the axillary artery (Aa); and then on to the upper arm, where it is called the brachial artery (RA). It branches into two portions at the elbow. One branch follows the radius, and is termed the radial artery (Ar); the other follows the ulna, and is called the ulnar artery (Au). They both unite again in the palm of the hand, forming the palmar arch (Arc), from which the arteries of the fingers start. ■ Returning to the aorta (A), we find that, after sending off arteries to the lungs, it passes down the thorax or chest, along the spinal column (see Plate V.), through a perforation in the diaphragm (Plate I.), and then through the abdomen. In its descent it gives off branches to the kidneys (Plate I. Ra) and other organs; and, in the lower part of the abdomen, divides into two branches—the iliac arteries (At). These branches again divide into two vessels, one of which—the internal iliac artery (li)— supplies the organs of the pelvis; and the other—the external iliac (le)—conveys blood to the lower limbs. All these arteries, coloured red on the plates, are filled with bright red blood, which spurts out with considerable force when the vessels are severed. They all divide into smaller and smaller vessels, till at last they give rise to minute capillaries^ which are to be found in every part of the body, with the exception of a few structures, such as cartilage, the nails, and the hair, which are bloodless. It is through the thin walls of these microscopic vessels that nutritious particles are passed from the blood to build up the tissues, and that the waste materials of the tissues are collected up for removal. The blood from the capillaries, which has changed in them to a dark bluish colour, is now collected up by veins. The smallest of these are formed by the union of capillaries, but they again and again unite as they approach the heart, forming larger and larger veins, till at last two great veins—the vena cava superior (VS) and the vena cava inferior (FT)—convey the whole of the blood into the right auricle, whence it passes at once into the right ventricle. Thus we have seen that the blood which was forced out of the left ventricle into the arteries passes through the capillaries of all parts of the body, and returns by the veins to the right auricle. This circulation is called the systemic circulation. But what becomes of this dark blood, rendered useless for the further nourishment of the system, when brought back to the heart by the veins ? It is forced from the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery (Ap) into the lungs (Plate V. 24). There these arteries divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller branches (Plate V.), which at last give rise to capillaries, just as we observed in the case of the aorta. These capillary vessels penetrate into every part of the lungs, and surroimd the httle air-cells at the terminations of the breathing tubes. Both the capillaries and the air-cells have exceedingly thin walls, through which the blood