12 THE BE AIN AND NERVES. of the diaphragm, partly covering the stomach. It prepare.s from the blood a brownl-ih-yellow bitter substance called the bile, which is stored in the gall-bladder (17 jr, shown on the back of the liver in Plate V.) when not required for immediate use. But while digestion is going on it mingles with the contents of the duodenum, where it aids especially in the digestion of fat. The pancreas (15) is situated behind the stomach, between the duodenum and the spleen (16). The fluid secreted by it acts in the same way as the saliva on starchy foods, and it also assists in the digestion of albuminous substances and fat. The spleen is a dark brown gland, engaged in the building up of the blood. The mucous membrane of the small intestine secretes a fluid which acts on foods much in the same way as the bile and the gastric fluid, and also envelops the undigested substances that remain, so that it is readily urged onward by the serpentine contractions of the muscular fibres in the walls of the tube. The term chyle is commonly given to the contents of the small intestine. The inner surface of the small intestine is covered with a number of little projections called villi, which give the mucous membrane a velvety appearance. Each villus contains a little absorbent vessel called a lacteal, which absorbs a milky fluid from the chyle. The lacteals unite in the walls of the intestine, forming a system of vessels known as the lymphatics; and these unite with one another, forming still larger vessels, all of which at last convey their contents into a great tube which passes into the chest, and discharges the milky fluid into the left subclavian vein. In this way the chyle reaches the blood. From the small intestine the remainder of the chyle, now considerably reduced in nourishing properties, passes into the large intestine, where the rest of the nutritious matter is absorbed. The large intestine consists of the ascending colon (11), the transverse colon (12), and the descending colon (13). At the point where the small intestine passes into the large there is a blind pouch-like tube called the caecum (10), to which is attached the worm-like vermiform appendage. A valve is also situated at this junction, and the use of this is to prevent the chyle from returning after having once left the small intestine. In Plate V. the caecum is shown in section in order to expose this valve. At the lower end of the descending colon the large intestine forms an S-sbaped curve called the sigmoid flexure (14), which leads into the rectum—the last portion of the intestines. In the back of the abdomen lie the two kidneys (26), one on each side of the spinal column. These are complicated glandular organs (see the sections on Plate V.) which separate man)’ of the used-np particles from the blood, and the waste material thus collected is conveyed in the form of urine through the ureters (27) into the bladder (28). THE BRAIN AND NERVES. Nearly all parts of the human body are penetrated by nerves. These are delicate whitish threads, of varying thickness, which for the most part divide like the branches of a tree, and at length terminate in very fine ends that are sensitive to impressions from without. The nerves are divided into three groups:— 1. Nerves of the senses—those which receive and convey impressions of light, sound, smell, and taste to the brain. 2. Nerves of sensation—those which receive and convey impressions of feeling, originating either from without or within the body, to the brain. 3. Motor nerves—these all proceed from the brain, and transmit the commands of the will to the muscles of all parts, causing them to move.