n THE INTERNAL ORGANS. Between the smaller divisions of the windpipe pass the branches of the pulmonary arteries and veins. . The lungs (24) consist chiefly of air-vessels and blood-vessels closely interwoven with each other. They are two in number—called the right and the left—and are surrounded by a membrane (the pleura), which also lines the chest. The right lung consists of three lobes, and the left of two. Both are shown cut through in Plate V., in order that the arrangement of their vessels may be seen. When drawing in a breath, the ribs with their muscles are raised, and the diaphragm is at the same time depressed. Thus the chest is enlarged to make room for the inspired air. When exhaling the air, the opposite movements are produced, and the chest returns to its former dimensions. A healthy person breathes about sixteen times in a minute. THE ABDOMEN. The chest is separated from the abdomen by the diaphragm (18). This is a strong dome-shaped partition, starting at the sides below the ribs, and composed partly of muscle and partly of tendon. The cesophagus or gullet (Plate V. 6), the aorta, and the inferior vena cava, all pass through perforations in the diaphragm. On Plate V. the diaphragm is cut through the middle from right to left, in order to show the front and the back surfaces. DIGESTION. The body must repair the material that it uses up. This it does by the absorption of nutritious substances from the digested foods. The chief food substances are albumen, fat, sugar, starch, and certain mineral salts. All food substances must undergo such a change that they are rendered capable of absorption into the blood. The processes by which this is effected are together called digestion. The food is first reduced to small pieces by the teeth, and mixed with the saliva that exudes from the salivary glands of the mouth. Thus it is formed into a soft pulpy mass, which is easily swallowed, and at the same time the saliva commences to turn the starchy particles into a kind of sugar. It then passes through the pharynx (5) and cesophagus (6) into the stomach (7). The oesophagus is a fleshy tube, running along the front of the spinal column, and through the diaphragm, as already described. The stomach, which.is shown cut through longitudinally in Plate V., is situated just below the diaphragm, somewhat to the left side of the body, and consists of muscular walls, lined with a smooth mucous membrane that is richly supplied with blood. The mucous membrane contains countless small glands, which secrete the gastric fluid. It also absorbs much of the fluid constituents of the food, conducting them at once into the blood. The gastric fluid acts principally on the albuminous matter, reducing it gradually to a fluid state. The albuminous substances thus changed, together with the other constituents of the food which have not yet been acted on, are kept in constant motion by the alternate contraction and expansion of the muscular fibres of the stomach; and, after a period varying from two to six hours, the whole of the contents are passed thi’ough the outlet called the pylorus, into the small intestine—a fleshy tube, about sixty feet long, covered with a thin skin called the peritoneum, and lined with mucous membrane. The first portion of the small intestine is shaped like a horse-shoe, and is called the duodenum (8). It receives two very important digestive fluids—the pancreatic fluid from the pancreas through the pancreatic duct, and the bile from the liver through the biliary duct. The liver (17) is a large reddish-brown organ of two lobes, situated just under the right side