THE MUSCLES. 7 Of the neck muscles the most important are the stemo-mastoid (6), hy which the head can be turned or nodded. The muscles numbered 7 move the shoulder-blade, and are known as the trapezius muscles. The muscles of the breast lie in three layers, one on top of another. Some are shown on Plate III., and others on Plate IV. , On Plate III. the great pectoral (9) forming the outer layer is visible. This is a large muscle, extending from the chest to the upper arm, and forming the front wall of the arm-pit. It is triangular in form, and is principally instrumental in bringing the arm to the side of the body. This may easily be seen by making the movement. The second layer contains the small pectoral muscle (Plate IV. 1), which draws the shoulder down and lifts the ribs; also the serratus magnus (Plate IV. 2 and Plate III. 10). This latter muscle commences with eight or nine points on the upper eight or nine ribs; hence the term serratus, which means saw-like. It is fastened to the inner surface of the shoulder- blade, and causes that bone to be drawn forward. The third layer of breast muscles consists of the external and internal intercostals (Plate IV. 3 and 4), which occupy the spaces between the ribs. The external (3) run obliquely downwards and forwards; and the internal downwards and backwards. Both sets of intercostal muscles assist in the movements of respiration; the exte’^nal raising the ribs, and the internal depressing them. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. The most important of these is the deltoid muscle (Plate III. 8), which is fastened to the upper arm and serves to raise it. MUSCLES OP THE UPPER ARM. In the front of the upper arm is situated the strong biceps muscle, which starts from the shoulder-blade at two points (Plate IV. 5), and is fastened to the radius of the forearm near the elbow-joint (Plate III. 13). It is very powerful in bending the arm, and is the muscle most commonly brought into activity during manual exercises. On Plate IV. 6 is shown another muscle that assists in bending the arm. At the back of the upper arm the external muscles are the ones principally called into play; and of these the powerful triceps muscle may be readily felt in extending one’s own arm. MUSCLES OP THE FOREARM. The muscles here are arranged in three layers, one over the other. Those of the outer layer, visible in Plate III., and distinguished collectively by the number 14, turn the forearm inwards; and the tendons attached to them (Plate III. 15) help us to close the hand. The second layer includes the muscle numbered 7 on Plate IV. The fleshy substance of this muscle divides into four spindle-shaped portions, each of which terminates in a tendon. The four tendons pass under the ring-like ligament of the wrist (Plate III. H and Plate IV. H), into the hollow of the hand, and then up the four fingers, which they help to bend. The thumb has its own particular bender. The thumb and little finger have also special muscles to themselves. MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN. The muscular covering of the abdomen or belly is formed of both long and broad muscles. The long muscles are situated towards the front, and the broad ones over the sides and back. The long straight muscles (recti abdominis) of the abdomen may be seen in Plate IV.