4 THE SKELETON. [See Plate II. of Model.] The bony skeleton forms the rigid structure or framework upon which the human body is built up. The bones of which it consists may be divided into three groups : those of the skull, the trunk, and the limbs. A. BONES OF THE SKULL. The skull consists of twenty-two bones, which, with the exception of the lower jaw, fit closely into one another, forming a compact hollow case enclosing the brain and the organs of sense. Of these, eight form the cranium or brain-case, and the remaining fourteen belong to the face. The bones of the cranium consist of flat plates, fitting one into the other by means of irregular, tooth-like edges. Tlie cranium consists of two pairs of bones—the parietal (7) and the temporal (5); and four others—the occipital (Plate V. 3), the sphenoid (Plate V. 4), the frontal (Plate II. 1), and the ethmoid. The under surfaces of the parietal and temporal may be seen in Plate V, (2 and 1). The ethmoid forms part of the inner walls of the eye-sockets (Plate II. 8). The face consists of six pairs of bones—the superior maxillary or upper jaw (Plate II. 2), the malar or cheek bones (Plate II. 6), the bones of the palate, the nasal bones (Plate II. 4), the lachrymal or tear bones, which form part of the inner walls of the eye-sockets, and the inferior turbinated bones of the nasal cavity; and two others—the vomer, which divides the cavity of the nose into right and left portions, and the inferior maxillary or lower jaw, which forms movable joints with the temporal bones. In the superior and inferior maxillary bones are fixed thmty-two teeth, each of which consists of a very hard substance called dentine, surrounding and protecting a very soft pulp. The sixteen teeth of each jaw consist of four incisors or cutting teeth, two pointed canines, four bicuspids or pre-molars, each having two ridges, and six molars or grinding teeth, each with three or more roots. B. BONES OP THE TRUNK. The bones of the body or trunk consist of the vertebrae, the breast-bone, and the ribs. The vertebrae, taken together, form the back-bone, vertebral column, or spinal column which is the principal support of the body. They may be divided as follows :— 1. Seven cervical or neck vertebrae, the topmost of which, called the atlas, supports the head. In Plate II. only the three lowest of these are visible (5c-7c), but in Plate V. the three upper may be seen (lc-3c). 2. Twelve dorsal vertebrae (Plate II. ic^-xiid). Most of these are hidden by the breast- bone. 3. Five lumbar vertebrae (Plate II. il-yl). 4. The sacrum {S) and the coccyx ((7).