98 THE EAR. The nerve of Jacobson or tympanic nerve enters the tympanum by a small foramen near its floor, which forms the upper end of a short canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, beginning at the base of the skull between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa. The nerve connecting it with the carotid plexus is above and in front, and passes through the bone directly from the carotid canal I lie branch to the great superficial petrosal nerve is lodged in a canal which opens on the inner wall of the tympanum in front of the fenestra ovalis. The small superficial petrosal nerve also leaves at the fore part of the cavity beneath the canal tor the tensor tympani. rmT!'f tenS,01" tymPani muscle obtains ifcs nei>ve from the internal pterygoid of the tilth through the otic ganglion ; as already mentioned its nerve is provided with a small ganglion. The stapedius receives filaments from the facial nerve The chorda tympani, arising from the facial near the lower end of the aqueduct of l<allopius, takes a recurrent course to the tympanum, which it enters by an Fig. 105.—The facial nerve in its canal, WITH ITS CONNECTING BRANCHES, &C. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Le- veille.) I The mastoid and a part of the petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the internal meatus to the stylo- mastoid foramen ; the Vidian canal has also been opened from the outer side : 1, facial nerve in the first horizontal part of its course ; 2, its second part turning backwards ; 3, its vertical portion ; 4, the nerve at its exit from the stylo- mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion ; 6, large superficial petrosal nerve; 7, spheno- palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, chorda tympani; 10, posterior auricu- lar branch cut short; 11, branch to the digastric , „ , . ... . , , muscle; 12, branch to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; id, twig uniting with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (14 and 15). aperture in the posterior wall (iter chordce poslerius) just below the level of the pyramid. From this place it passes with a slight curve across the cavity near the outer boundary, and crossing successively the posterior rjart of the membrana tympani, the handle of the malleus near its neck, and the processus gracilis of the same bone, finally enters a small canalf (iter chordce anterius) in the bone close to the Glaserian fissure (fig. 90, ch). It is invested by the fold of the lining membrane already mentioned. THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. The inner, essential part of the organ of hearing, is contained in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It consists of a complex cavity—the osseous laby- rinth—hollowed out of the bone, and containing the membranous labyrinth. The osseous labyrinth is incompletely divided into three parts, named the vesti- bule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea. They are lined throughout by a thin periosteal membrane, within which there is a clear fluid named perilymph, or liquor Cotunnii. The membranous labyrinth being distinctly smaller than the bony labyrinth, a space is left between the two, occupied by the perilymph just referred to. The membranous structure is lined throughout by epithelium,' and at certain parts receives branches of the auditory nerve. It contains a fluid named the endolymph, and consists of several parts, viz.: the utricle, saccule, semicircular canals, and membranous cochlea.