138 THE NOSE. the bulla ethmoidalis, the hiatus semilunaris, and the apertures of the air-cells which open into this meatus. The middle meatus, which lies beneath the middle turbinal, is roughly triangular m shape, with the base of the triangle directed forwards. It expands in front of the middle turbinal into a nearly smooth-walled chamber winch communicates through the vestibule with the anterior nares ; thin chamber is known as the atrium of the middle meatus. On the outer wall above the atrium a low ridge (figs. L54, 155) may usually be detected passing downwards and forwards from the anterior attachment of the middle turbinal. This ridge {agger nasi of H. Meyer), which is seen also in the macerated bone (fig. 153), is the rudiment of a well-developed turbinal (naso turbinal), which is met with in most mammals (Schwalbe). It is usually better marked in the foetus and new-born child, in which it is seen to be continued below and behind into the uncinate process of the ethmoid, which forms the lower and anterior boundary of the hiatus semilunaris (Seydel). The groove above the agger nasi leads to the olfactory part of the nose, and is termed sulcus olfactorius. In the lower meatus, which lies between the inferior turbinal and the floor of the fossa, is the inferior orifice of the nasal duct which is defended by one or two folds of membrane : when there are two, the folds are often adapted so accurately together as to prevent air from passing up from the cavity of the nose to the lachrymal sac. The roof of the nasal fossa is divided into three parts, viz.: nasal, in front; ethmoidal, in the middle, and sphenoidal, behind, corresponding with the bones of the same name. The roof is at the front formed only by the conjunction of the septum and lateral walls, and is quite narrow, but it is broader near the choanse. Above and behind the upper turbinal is a diverticulum of the nasal fossa, the sphenoethmoidal recess, which communicates posteriorly with the sphenoidal sinus (fig. 154). The floor of the fossa is broader than the roof. In it in front is the incisor foramen, but this is in the recent state generally closed (fig. 154). Some- times, however, a narrow funnel-shaped tube of mucous membrane (nasopalatine canal, canal of Stensen, or canalis incisivus) passes obliquely downwards from each nasal fossa for a short distance towards the front of the hard palate. Vesahus, Stensen, and Santorini believed that these tubes of membrane opened generally into the roof of the mouth by small apertures close behind the central incisor teeth. Haller, Scarpa, and Jacobson found the canals iu man usually closed, and often difficult of detection, and these statements have been confirmed by most modern investigators. The canal is a remnant of the wide communication between the nasal and buccal cavities found at an early period of foetal life, being in man usually obliterated, at least in its lower part, before birth, although persistent in many animals. It is long represented below by a solid column of epithelium cells continuous with the epithelium of the palate, and above by a narrow tube hned with ciliated epithelium, opening into the floor of the nasal fossa but closed below. The part of the inferior meatus which lies behind the incisor canal, together with the space immediately behind the posterior end of the superior and middle turbinals as far back as the orifice of the Eustachian tube, belongs to the primitive buccal cavity of the foetus, having become separated from the permanent mouth by the growth of the palate (see Vol. I., p. 97). It is known as the naso-pharyngeal part (ductus naso-pharyngeus), and its mucous membrane is marked off behind from that of the pharynx by a prominence which is termed the naso-ptoryngcal fold. The anterior and lowermost part of the nasal cavity is termed the vestibule (fig. 157). This is bounded laterally by and corresponds in extent with the ala and the cartilage of the aperture. It is lined by skin and is furnished with hairs and with sebaceous and sudoriferous glands. The hairs are large and numerous just within the orifice of the anterior nares (vibrissae), but over the rest of the vestibule