ORGAN OF CORTI. 119 the cochlea externally, is much thickened by a development of retaform oomeotm tissue, and is covered by the epithelium of that tube, which here forma a singleaver of columnar cells, which contain pigment, and are prolonged by forked or aiborescen processes iuto the subjacent connective tissue. There is usually a # projection a little above the spiral ligament, containing a prominent blood-vessel (fio-s 131 135) In the tract between this prominence and the membrane ot Eeissner, the substance of the periosteum is also frequently pigmented and from containing large and numerous blood-vessels, the capillary loops of which may even project between the bases of the epithelium-cells, is termed stria vascularis. Imme- diately beneath the epithelium of the outer wall is a basement membrane through which, in section, the cell-processes above mentioned may be seen passing from the epithelium into the subjacent connective tissue. _ . The spiral ligament (fig. 131 l.sp., fig. 135) appears in section as a triangular prominence attached to the outer wall of the cochlea, with the basilar membrane prolonged from its apex. It is composed of a retiform connective tissue, many ot the celk of which have an elongated shape and radiate from the point of attachment of the basilar membrane. They have been considered by some to be muscular, but there is no distinct proof of their contractile nature. Organ of Corti.—The epithelium which covers the basilar membrane includes liuibus membrana tectoria outer hair-cells nerve fibres too v&M k*: '--"p*? i*--fi>% °- fe-.s*;; •*«*©" "6 °: - inner rod vas basilar outer cells of Deilers spirale membrane rod Fig 136 -Section through the organ of Corti of the middle turn of the human cochlea. (G. Retzius.) Highly magnified. the hio-hly-specialised structures which are known by the name of the organ of Corti&(fio- 136) The central part of this apparatus is formed by two sets of stiff, rod-like bodies—the inner and outer rods of Corti (fig. 132)—which stand upon the basilar membrane, the outer series (e.r.), at some little distance from the inner (t.r.) and are inclined towards each other, coming in contact above. In this way eacti pair of rods forms a pointed arch with slanting sides (fig. 137), and since the rods of each series are in lateral juxtaposition, the double row of inclined columns forms a tunnel (fig. 132) along the whole extent of the cochlear canal. On the inner side of the inner series of rods is a row of epithelial cells (tig. 13b), which are surmounted by a brush of fine, short, stiff hairlets, and external to the outer rods are three or four successive rows of similar but more elongated cells These cells are termed respectively the inner and outer hair-cells. The hairlets of the outer hair-cells project through apertures in a curiously formed cuticular mem- brane, termed the reticular lamina (fig. 132, l.r., 140), which covers this part ot