COMPARISON OP SENSE-ORGANS. 154 tions the central process of the gustatory cell is not continuous with a fibre of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and the connection of the gustatory cells with the fibres of that nerve is auditor;/ yuatatory tactile Fig. 176.—Diagram showing the mode of termination of sensory nerve fibres int the AUDITORY, GUSTATORY, AND TACTILE STRUCTURES OF YeRTEBRATA. (After Gr. RetziuS.) indirect and not by continuity. If this is so, the arrangement in the gustatory organ would appear to be somewhat similar to that which obtains in the general integument and in the auditory organ (fig. 176). Fig. 177.—Diagram of the connexions of the retinal elements. (After G. Retzius.) fifJ'.i., inner granules ; m. i., inner molecular layer ; gr, ganglion cell ; n, its nerve fibre process or neuron ramifying in the nerve centre. The retina of the eye, as its development shows. Is rather to be regarded as an extension of the central nervous system than a peripheral organ. It is composed of nerve- elements (nerve-cells) which are arranged in three tiers (fig. 177). Those which are placed most peripherally are the visual cells or rod- and cone-cells, which resemble the general type of sensory cells in consisting of a nucleated enlargement or cell-body (outer granule) with a speeially modified peripheral process (rod or cone), and a central ly directed ramified (nerve-fibre) process (rod- or cone-fibre). In the case of the cone-elements the peripheral process has been shown to be contractile, since it shortens under the excitation of light (see p. 50). It is usually believed that in these peripheral processes the nerve-impulses are produced and that the impulses are thence conducted centrally by the central or nerve-fibre process (rod- or cone-fibre), and by it transmitted to the next tier of cells. The second tier of nervous elements is afforded by the layer of inner granules. Here there are bipolar nerve-cells, the peripheral processes of which interlace with the central processes of the rod- and cone-cells, but one peripheral fibre (fibre of Landolt) extends in most vertebrates beyond the rest and comes to lie between the bodies of the rod- and cone-cells. The central processes of the bipolars interlace with the peripheral processes of the cells of the next tier.