76 THE EAR. Vessels of the pinna (fig. s i).—The auricular branch of the posterior auricular artery, a branch from the external carotid, is distributed chiefly on the mesial surface but some of its branches turn over the folded margin to reach the external surface ot the helix : others pierce the cartilage and ramify on the external surface of the anthel.x, concha and lobule. Besides this artery, the auricle receives the anterior auncular branches from the superficial temporal. These chiefly supply the anterior part of the lobule, the tragus, and the anterior part of the helix. The veins for the most part accompany the arteries. They join the posterior auricular and temporal veins, but some enter the mastoid emissary vein of the lateral sinus (see Vol. II., p. 520). The lymphatics of the pinna pass partly forwards from the concha to join a gland in front of the tragus ; partly downwards and backwards from the upper and posterior part of the pinna towards the mastoid Sands8 ' Pai" downwards from fche lobule fc™ards the parotid lymphatic _ Nerves.—The great auricular nerve, from the cervical plexus, supplies the integument of the greater part of the inner surface of the auricle, and sends small nlaments with the posterior auricular artery to the outer surface of the lobule and attrahens aurem S retrahens aurem retrahens aurem 12 11 10 — 10 1 10 Fig. 84.—Arteries supplying the auricle. (Testut.) ^rl'J^TiT^V 2' Jntfe?al m&x}]1^ ; 3' superficial temporal; 4, transverse facial; 5, middle temporal , 6, orbital branch of temporal; 7, anterior terminal branch ; 8, posterior terminal branch ■ branches01" ^ branches ' 10> Posterior auricular artery ; 11, its mastoid branch ; 12, perforating the part of the ear above it. The auricular branch of the posterior auricular nerve. derived from the facial, after communicating with the auricular Iranch of the pneumogastric, ramifies on the back of the ear, supplying the small muscles. The auriculotemporal branch of the third division of the fifth nerve gives filaments chiefly to the outer surface of the pinna. A branch of the small occipital supplies the upper part of the inner surface. Filaments from the temporal branches of the facial supply the external muscles. THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. The external auditory canal, meatus auditorius extmws (85, 2, 2), extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrane of the tympanum and serves to convey the vibrations of sound to the middle chamber of the ear. The canal is