152 COMPARISON OK SENSE-ORGANS. OOMPABISON OF THE MODES OF ARRANGEMENT OF SENSOKY CELLS AND NEEVE FIBRES IN THE DIFFERENT ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. All tho organs of special sense contain specially modified cells or the processes of such cells, the so-called nerve-epithelium cells or sense-epithelium cells which serve to receive the physical impressions upon which the sensation depends, and to transmute these impressions into nerve-impulses which are then conducted by nerve-fibres to a nerve-centre. The skin appears at first sight to present an exception to this general rule, but the ganglion-cells on the posterior roots, which send their peripheral processes in the form of nerve-fibres to end by ramifying in the skin, either in a special tactile organ or between the cells of the GANGLION - CHAIN cPI OERMig MVS|CL£S \"Z Fig. 174.—Diagram of the nervous ststem of the earthwohm. (E. A. after Lenhossek and Retzius.) m, motor cells ; s, sensory fibres emanating from s', sensory cells in the epidermis; i, median intercalated cell. epidermis, do in fact represent the sense-epithelium cells such as we find in the olfactory organ and in the retina of the eye. This becomes plain from a comparison of the arrange- ments of the sensory nerves of Annelids with those of Vertebrates. Thus in the earthworm (Lumbricus) the whole epidermis is pervaded by cells (fig. 17-1, s') which resemble in nearly every particular the olfactory cells of Vertebrates. They are spindle-shaped cells, having two processes, one unbranched and extending straight to the free surface, the other branching, and with one of its branches prolonged as a nerve-fibre to the central nervous system and ending in a forked termination which comes into relation with branches of the nerve-cells there present. As in the olfactory organ the sense-cells are supported by columnar epithelium cells which are not connected with the nerve centre. In other Annelids (e.g., Nereis) the sense-cells are no longer situated between the other cells of the epidermis, but occupy a deeper position and send their peripheral process, which is still unbranched, to penetrate between the cells of the epidermis, and thus to reach the surface, whilst the central process