46 THE EYE. The layers hitherto described contain structures (cells and fibres) which are undoubted^ sciuctme m its external portion (rod or cone proper) exce\™L^tebdtv Zf^T'" V™*** int0 thiB epithelial la^' but a remarkable 6. Outer nuclear layer.-This (figs. 48, 50, 52) resembles very closely at first sight, in sections of retina stained with hematoxylin or carmine, the inner nuclear Fig. 52.—Diagram of some of the nervous and epithelial elements of the retina. (Modified from Schwalbe.) The numbers are the same as in fig. 47. layer ; appearing, like that, to consist of clear, oval or elliptical, nuclear corpuscles (outer granules), from the ends of which delicate fibres are prolonged. These outer granules differ, however, essentially from the inner granules, and may be readily distinguished from them. They are of two kinds, which present well- marked differences, and are known respectively as the rod-granules and cone-granules, accordingly as they are connected with the rods or with the cones of the next retinal layer. Those which are connected with the rods are, in most parts of the retina, by far the more numerous, and form the main thickness of the outer nuclear layer. They may be regarded as enlarge- ments or swellings in the course of delicate fibres (rod- fibres), which extend from the inner ends of the rods at the membrana limitans externa through the thick- ness of this layer to the outer molecular layer. The enlargements, of which there is but one to a fibre, situated at any part of its course, are each occupied by an elliptical nucleus, and, in the fresh condition, exhibit a remarkable cross-striped appearance (Henle), the strongly refracting substance which mainly com- poses the enlargement being interrupted by bands or disks of a clearer, less refracting material, usually two in number, one on each side of the middle line (fig. 52), but occasionally single and median (see the left-hand one in fig. 52). The rod-fibres are of extreme fineness, and exhibit minute varicosities in their course : each is directly continuous at the outer end with one of the rods but at the inner end terminate in a somewhat larger varicosity (ond-lrnob). These end-knobs lie in the outer part of the outer molecular layer, and are embedded in the tufts of which the terminal arborisations of the rod-bipolars are formed. In amphibia and birds (but not in nocturnal birds) fine fibrils radiate from these end-knobs (fig. 51), but in mammals and teleosteans these fibrils are absent (Cajal). Those outer granules which are connected with the cones are, in most parts of the retina, much fewer in number than the rod-granules, from which they are dis-