90 THE EAR. by a longitudinal groove into secondary facets. The inferior margin of the articular surface is very prominent opposite the constriction, and forms' here, in fact the lower end of the ridge above mentioned (spur of the malleus). Below the head is a constricted neck (d) ; and beneath this another slight enlargement of the bone to which the processes are attached. The handle {manubrium) (m) the lower tapering point of the malleus, is slightly twisted, and is compressed from before backwards to near its point, where it is flattened laterally. It forms a rounded obtuse angle with the head of the bone (fig. 97 B), and passes downwards with an inclination forwards and inwards, on the inner side of the membrana tympani to which it is closely attached both by its periosteal covering and also by a layer of cartilage extending its whole length, and especially marked at the attachment of the processus brevis. The point of insertion of the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle IS sometimes marked by a slight projection on the inner side of the manubrium near its upper end. The long process (processus gracilis vel Folianus) (fio- 97 B pr gr ) is a very slender spiculum of bone, which in the adult is usually converted except a small stump, into ligamentous tissue, and even where it still exists as bone is often broken off in its removal from the tympanum ; it projects at nearly a right angle from the front of the neck of the malleus, and extends thence obliquely downwards and forwards to the Glaserian fissure. Its end is flattened and expanded, and is connected by ligamentous fibres or bone to the sides of the fissure. In the foetus this process is directly continued into Meckel's cartilage (see Vol. I, Part I, p. 168) The short process (processus brevis vel obtusus) (b) is a low conical eminence situated at the root of the manubrium, beneath the cervix, and projecting outwards towards the upper part of the membrana tympani, to which it is attached. The incus (fig. 98), as its name implies, has been compared to an anvil; but it resembles perhaps more nearly a tooth with two fangs widely separated. It consists „rZ„ jA Mm „ Fig- 9S-—Left ™VS, VIEWED FROM THE INNER SIDE AND SOMEWHAT m from before. Magnified four times. (Gr. D. Thane.) b, body; a m. ridged articular surface for the malleus; pr. br, processus brevis ; I. i, rough surface near its extremity for the attachment of the ligament of the incus ; pr. I, processus longus, terminating below in a small projection which comes off from it at a right angle, and is capped by a convex tubercle, processus lenticularis pr.o *Jy pr. o, for articulation with the stapes. of a body and two processes. The body has a deep saddle-shaped articular surface m front (a.m), which fits over the articular surface on the head of the malleus, and which consists, like that of the malleus, of two chief facets, each subdivided to form two secondary facets. The lower margin of the articulation is excavated to receive the spur-like prominence of the malleus, and in front of this excavation is very prominent, where it also forms a spur, against which that of the malleus catches in inward movements of the manubrium. The shorter process (crus breve) (pr.br.) of the incus projects backwards. Its extremity is tipped with cartilage, and is moveably articulated by ligamentous fibres with the posterior and partly with the outer wall of the tympanum near the entrance to the mastoid cells. The place where the ligamentous fibres are attached to the wall of the tympanum is somewhat depressed, and has a covering of cartilage. The Jong process (crus hngum) (pr.l) tapers rather more gradually, and passes downwards and inwards parallel to the handle of the malleus, and about If mm. mesial to and behind it. At its extremity it is bent inwards at an angle which varies considerably in different bones, and is suddenly narrowed into a short neck ; and upon this is set a flattened tubercle (processus orbicularis seu lenticularis) (pr. o.), tipped with cartilage. This tubercle, which articulates with the head of the stapes, was formerly, under the name