THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. S7 mrHlfurinoTU Dart than in the osseous. The posterior or osseous division of the tubXnT hSf an inch long, is placed at the angle of junction of the petrous no^n of tt tempos bon&e with the squamous portion It is funne shaped. dimlTshrn- somewhat rapidly in size from behind forwards, to the junction with ^SCus part; here the tube is narrowest (isthmus tula. The carotid canJK mesiaUy to the osseous portion of the tube, and is occasionally found to communicate with it owing to deficiencies in the bony septum between them The mucous membrane lining the osseous portion of the tube is thin and closely attached to the bone except along the floor of the canal, where it is separated from the per teL by a venous plexus. It is lined by ciliated epithelium, and has no glands onenTng into it. The anterior part of the tube, about an inch m length is formed of a triangular piece of elastic fibro-cartilage, the edges of which are shghtly curled round towards each other, leaving an interval at the under and outer side, in which the wall of the canal is completed by dense but pliable fibrous membrane (fascm sat„o- pharyngea), and by a muscular band connected with the tensor palati and termed by pig> 95.—Section across the cartila- ginous PART OP THE EUSTACHIAN tube. (Klidinger.) ], 2, bent cartilaginous plate; 3, muse', dilatator tubae; to the left of 4, part of the attachment of the levator palati muscle ; 5, tissue uniting the tube to the base oE the skull ; 6, and 7, mucous glands ; 8, 10, fat ; 9 to 11, lumen of the tube ; 12, connective tissue on the lateral aspect of the tube. Riidinger the dilatator tubce. The cartilaginous plate is hook-shaped in transverse section (fig. 95), the larger part of the plate being on the mesial side, and only a small part on the lateral border. The cartilage is largest near the ostium pharyngeum, where it measures 12 mm. from above down, and is 7 mm thick. It here occupies the whole mesial wall of the tube, but gradual y diminishes in size as it approaches the bony canal. It is often partially or entirely broken up by fissures, or there may be accessory pieces of cartilage m various situations in the wall of the tube. The cartilaginous part of the tube is trumpet- shaped, being narrow behind, and gradually expanding to a greater width m front (fio- 94) ; the anterior part is compressed from side to side, and is nxed to the inner pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. The anterior opening (oshum pharyngeum) is of a compressed oval, somewhat triangular form, and is placed obliquely at the side and upper part of the pharynx, into which its prominent margin projects behind the lower turbinate process of the nose and above the level of the hard palate (fig. 96). The aperture is bounded above and posteriorly by a projection, which is caused by the end of the curved plate of cartilage (covered of course, by mucous membrane), which separates it behind from a longitudinal depression of the pharyngeal wall, known as the lateral recess of the pharynx or fossa of Rosenmiiller. The projection in question is continued into the salpingo- pharyngeal fold. Below it is limited by a thickening, increased when the levator palati contracts, continued from a fold (salpingopalatine), which also assists in forming the anterior boundary of the orifice. The opening is placed