83 INNER WALL OF TYMPANUM. skin and mucous membrane covering the surfaces : a lew are, however, found in the prope" fibrous membrane, and form a communication between the two systems on the surf-ices Those of the skin are mostly supplied by a small artery, derived from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary, which passes from above parallel to and along the handle of the malleus. The nerves for the most part accompany the blood-vessels, first supplying these and then forming a plexus both in the cutis and in the mucosa. They are derived, for the upper and greater part of the membrane from the auriculotemporal; for the lowermost part, according to Sappey from the auricular branch of the vagus. For the mucosa they come from the plexus tympanicus. Lymphatic vessels are, according to Kessel, tolerably abundant in all three layers. > The inner wall of the tympanum (fig. 93, A & B), which separates it from the internal ear, is very uneven. Near its upper part is an ovoid, or nearly kidney- membrana iaccida posterior ligament anterior ligament long process of incus -- e nd of manubrium of malleus Fig. 92.—Membrana tympani, as seen with the otoscope. (HeDsman.) shaped ovemng-fenestra ovalis, which leads into the cavity of the vestibule. This openino-, which is elongated from before backwards, with a slight inclination down- wards fn front, is occupied in the recent state by the base of the stapes and the annular ligament connected with that plate of bone. It measures 3 mm by1 \ mm., and lies at the bottom of a depression {fossula ovalis), which is bounded by the bony prominences immediately to be mentioned. Above the fenestra ovahs, and between it and the roof of the tympanum, a ridge indicates the position of the aqueduct of Fallopius (aF), as it passes backwards, containing the facial nerve Be ow is a larger and more rounded elevation, caused by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea, and named the promontory, or tuber cochlea; its surface is marked by grooves, in which lie the nerves of the tympanic plexus. _ Below and behind the promontory, and somewhat hidden by it, is another aperture named fenestra rotunda, 1-5 mm. to 2 mm. in diameter, which lies within a funnel-shaped depression {fossula rotunda). In the macerated and dried bone the fenestra rotunda opens into the scala tympani of the cochlea; but, m the recent state, it is closed by a thin membrane. The membrane closing the fenestra rotunda-s^^an/ membrane of the tympanum (Scarpa)—is rather concave towards the tympanic cavity and convex to the scala tympani, and, like the membrana tympani, is composed of three structures, the middle being fibrous, and the outer and inner derived from the membranes lining the cavities between which it interposed, viz., the tympanum and the cochlea, lire o 2