THE NOSE. 182 thicker than the posterior, is united with the edge of the cartilage of the septum above, but is separated therefrom by a small fissure below. The posterior edge is closely attached to the free margins of the upper maxilla and of the nasal bone, and the inferior margin is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower lateral Fig. 1.00.—Fkokt vikw ok the .: ,.''*> ': • CARTILAGES OK THE NOSE. (Modified from Arnold.) cartilage ; and there are often small portions of cartilnge (cartilagines opacities) lying in the fibrous tissue in this situa- tion. The lower lateral cartilages or cartilages of the aperture (figs. 14!), 150, 151) are thinner than the preceding, below which they are placed, and are characterised by their peculiar curved form. Each consists of an elongated plate, so bent upon itself as to pass in front and on each side of the nostril to which it belongs, and by this arrangement serve to keep it open. The outer portion is somewhat oval and flattened, or irregularly con- vex externally. Behind, it is attached to the margin of the upper maxilla by tough fibrous membrane, enclosed m which there is usually to be met with either a prolongation backwards of the posterior angle of the cartilage, or two or three separate cartilaginous nodules (cartilag. minores vel quadrate) (figs. 149, 150); above, it is fixed, also by fibrous membrane, to the upper lateral cartilage, and to the lower and fore part of the nasal bone cartilage of septum 11 • upper lateral cartilages minor cartilages cartilage of aperture :- subcutaneous tissue of ala cartilage of aperture minor cartilage - cartilage of septum — minor cartilage - cartilage of Jacobson - subcutaneous tissue Fig. 151.—View ok the cartilages ok the nose kroji below. (Modified from Arnold.) cartilage of the septum. Towards the middle line it is curved back- wards (fig. 151), bounding a deep median groove, at the bottom of which it meets with its fellow of the opposite side, and continues to pass backwards, lying in the upper part of the columna nasi, below the level of the cartilage of the septum. This inner part of the cartilage of the aperture is thick and narrow, curls outwards, and ends in a free rounded margin which projects outwards. The ala of the hose, like the lobule of the ear, is formed of thickened skin with subjacent tissue, and is unsupported by cartilage. The cartilage of the septum (fig. 152) is quadrilateral in form, and is thicker at the edges than near the centre. It is placed nearly vertically in the median plane of the nose, but often with an inclination to one or other side, and completes, at the