THE TYMPANUM. 81 everywhere smooth, bub marked in many situations with depressions, some deeper others shallower, which are lined by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the cavity and also contain air. These depressions are known as the tympanic cells. A roof and floor, an outer and inner wall, and an anterior and posterior boundary are commonly described. The roof of the tympanum is formed by a thin plate of bone {legmen tympani), which may be easily broken through so as to obtain a view of the tympanic cavity from above ; it is situated on the upper anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the angle of union with the squamous portion, the petro- squamous fissure passing just external to it. The tegmen tympani also roofs over the canal of the Eustachian tube and tensor tympani muscle. It is not unfrequently partly deficient (compare Vol. II., p. 42). The floor is narrow, in consequence of the outer and iuuer boundaries being inclined towards each other. It passes without any sharp demarcation into the anterior and posterior boundaries. It is separated by a thin plate of bone, which in rare cases is found to be incomplete, from the lateral part of the jugular fossa, and exhibits a small aperture through which the tympanic nerve reaches the inner wall. The outer wall is formed, to a small extent, by bone, but mainly by the membrane (membrana tympani) already mentioned as closing the inner end of the Fig. 90.—View of the left membrana tympani AND AUDITORY OSSICLES FROM THE INNER SIDE, AND SOMEWHAT FROM ABOVE (E. A. S.). { m, malleus ; i, incus; st, stapes ; py, pyramid from which the tendon of the stapedius muscle is seen emerging ; t t, tendon of tbe tensor tympani cut short near its insertion ; I a, anterior ligament of the malleus : the processus gracilis is concealed by the lower fibres of this ligament; I s, superior ligament of the malleus ; I. i, ligament of tbe incus; ch, chorda tympani nerve passing across the outer wall of the tympanum. external auditory meatus. Immediately in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted, is the inner extremity of the fissure of Glaser (petro-tympanic fissure). Close to the inner end of this fissure is the opening of a small canal {iter chorda anterius), through which the chorda tympani nerve passes out from the tympanum. The margin of the tympanic ring is inter- rupted above by a notch (incisura Eivini) which is bounded in front and behind by prominent angles, the anterior and posterior tympanic spines. The outer wall of the recessus epitympanicus is formed by the thickened part of the squamosal which lies behind the root of the zygoma : it may contain, according to Kirchner, cells communicating with those of the mastoid process. This recess overhangs the inner end of the external auditory meatus. . The membrana tympani is an ellipsoidal disc, the longer axis of which is directed from behind and above, forwards and downwards, and is about 10 mm. m length : the shorter axis being about 9 mm. It is nearly as large at birth as in the adult. It is inserted into the groove already noticed at the end of the meatus externus, and so obliquely that the membrane inclines towards the anterior and lower part of the canal at an angle of about 55° (fig. 102). It is said to be more vertical in musicians and more horizontal in the congenitally deaf. In the foetus and even at or near birth it is as already stated nearly horizontal. The handle of the malleus, VOL. III., PT. 3.