73 THE BAR. the pinna is bounded by a prominent and incurved margin, the Mix which springing above and rather within the tragus, from the hollow of the'concha' surrounds the upper and posterior margin of the auricle, and gradually loses itself m the back part of the lobule. Within the helix is" another curved ridge the mthelu, which, beginning below at the antitragus, sweeps round the hollow of the ooncha. Ion,,,,),- the posterior boundary of that concavity, diverging above it into two ridges. Between the helix and the anthelix is a narrow curved groove the fossa of the helix (fossa scaphoidea) ; and in the fork of the antheliv is a somewhat triangular depression, the fossa of the anthelix (fossa triangularis) ear-point (when present) helix anthelix crus anthelicis sup. Jtelix fossa triangularis crus anthelicis inf. tragus antitragus incisura intertragica lohuhts Fig. 79.— Outer surface of the right auricle. (After Arnold.) projections are occasionally observed m the human subject at the margin of the helix. One of these to which Darwin's attention was drawn by Mr. Woolner, the sculptor, is of interest as representing the much more distinct pointed extremity met with in the expanded ears of quadrupeds (Darwin, "The Descent of Man "). The point in question is represented in the sketch given m fig. 79 B. It is constant in the embryo of about the 6th month where it presents a relative extent of development which is permanent in certain monkeys (Schwalbe). Considerable variation is met with in the size and shape of the pinna,1 in its amount of projection from the side of the head, in the extent of folding which it exhibits, and in the size or the lobule, and this is not only in individuals of different races, but even in those belonging to the same family. Attempts have been made to use these variations as a basis of classification m criminal anthropology, but with results of very doubtful value. The lobule is usually regarded as a human characteristic, but it is sometimes found fairly well developed m anthropoids, and is often very little developed in man. Structure.—The pinna consists mainly of yellow fibro-cartilage and integument, with a certain amount of adipose tissue. It has several ligaments and small muscles of minor importance. The shin covering it is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, especially on the concave aspect, and is covered with hairs which are provided with large sebaceous follicles. It also contains sweat glands on the convex aspect, but few or none on 1 T/T x^lOOX °f tlanSVerSe to ihe lonSitutunal measurement of the pinna is known as the ear- index —_ J and is employed in anthropometry.