51 PIGMENTARY LAYER OF THE RETINA. 111 addition to the eleoients which belong specially to the layers above described, there are certain other structures which are common to nearly all the layers, passino- through the thickness of the retina from the inner almost to the outer surface, and, although not actually of the nature of connective tissue serving the same kind of purpose, namely to bind together and support the more delicate nervous structures of the membrane. These sustentacula? fibres or fibres of Miiller (figs. 48, 58), commence at the inner surface of the retina by a broad conical hollow base or foot, which may be forked (fig. 58), and often contains a spheroidal body, staining with hematoxylin (pseudo-nucleus). The bases ot Fjg, 58.—A FIBRE OF MULLEB. FROM THE UOg's RETINA, SHOWN by golgi's method. (R. y Cajal.) Highly magnified. 1, nerve-fibre layer; 2, ganglionic layer ; 3, inner molecular layer; 4, inner nuclear layer ; 5, outer molecular layer ; 6, outer nuclear layer ; m.l.e., membrana liuiitans externa; m.l.i., mem- brana limitans interna ; b. nucleus of the fibre ; a, process extend- ing from nucleated part into inner molecular layer. adjoining fibres are united together at their edges (fig. 59), so as to give, in vertical sections of the retina, the appearance of a distinct boundary line (fig. 48) ; this has been named membrana limitans interna, but, as may be inferred from the above description, it is in no way a continuous or inde- pendent membrane. The Miillcrian fibres pass through the nerve- and ganglionic layers, either with a smooth contour, or with but two or three well-marked lateral projections from which fine lamellar processes extend amongst the elements of those layers: gradually diminishing in size they then traverse the inner molecular layer. In the mammalian retina the fibres may be marked by slight projections in passing- through this layer. In the inner nuclear layer they as-ain sive off delicate flattened processes from their sides, which pass round the inner granules and serve to support them. Moreover, each Miilleriaii fibre is here characterised by the presence of a clear oval or elliptical nucleus (already mentioned in the description of the inner nuclear layer), con- taining a nucleolus, and situated at one side of, and in close adherence to the fibre to which it belongs (fig. 58, b). On reaching the outer nuclear layer (after passing through the outer molecular) the fibres of Miiller break up into fibrils and thin lamellae, and in this form they pass outwards through the layer, between the outer granules and the rod- and cone-fibres, enclosing these structures, filling up the intervals between the granules and forming partial sheaths for them. At the level of the bases or central ends of the cones and rods, the numerous offsets terminate along a definite line which marks the boundary between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones, and has been termed membrana limitans externa. This also, like the m. 1. 'interna, is in no way a continuous membrane, nor is it isolable from the Mullerian fibres ; indeed, numerous fine fibrillar offsets of these pass a short distance beyond the so-called limiting membrane, and closely invest the bases of the inner segments of the rods and cones. The Mullerian fibres exhibit a fine striation. They swell up and become