30 THE EYE. the choroidal membrane, Several small arterial branches enter the outer part of each ciliary process at first running parallel to each other and communicating sparingly As they enter the prominent folded portion, the vessels become tortuous, subdivide minutely and inosculate frequently, Finally they form short arches or loops, and turn backwards to pour their contents into the radicles of the veins. On the free border of the fold, one artery, larger than the rest, extends the whole length of each ciliary process, and communicates through intervening vessels with a long venous trunlc which runs a similar course on the attached surface. Ciliary muscle.—The anterior part of the choroid', opposite the ciliary pro- cesses, is considerably thickened. The thickening is triangular in section, and is produced by a zone of plain muscular tissue, forming the cilianj muscle (Bowman) {tensorchoroidece, Bruecke). The main part of this muscle arises (figs. 35, 36) by a thm flat expansion from the fore part of the sclerotic close to the cornea between B Fig. 37.—Diagrams showing thk COMPAItATIVK UEVELOPMKNT OP THE CIRCULAR FIBRES OF THE CILIARY MUSCLE IN A, the normal or emmetropic e)'e ; B, the hypermetropic eye ; and C, the myopic eye. (Fucbs.) the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber, its fibres being attached to the bundles of the ligamentum pectinatum which occupies this position. The muscular fibres, spread- ing radially (meridionally), are directed backwards (fig. 35, M), to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to the ciliary processes, and partly further back. At their insertion the fibres pass obliquely and inter-cross so as to form peculiar stellate figures. According to Wal- deyer, a small portion (the outermost) is sometimes in- serted into the sclerotic coat,1 but this must be very rare, for the sclerotic always be- comes detached with the greatest ease from this part of the muscle. The radial fibres pass towards the iris into a ring of fibres (fig. 35, Mu), which have a circular course around the insertion of the iris. This set forms the circular ciliary muscle of H. Muller and is much developed in hypermetropic eyes, but atrophied, or even absent altogether, in myopic (Ivvanoff) (fig. 37). It was formerly described as the ciliary ligament. In birds the ciliary muscle is composed of cross-striped muscular fibres. When the ciliary muscle contracts it tends to draw the choroid and ciliary processes forwards and inwards. 1 This part, if present, is the homologue of an important portion of the ciliary muscle of birds which is known as the Cramptonian muscle.