63 THE LENS. THE LENS. The lens (Ims crystallma) is a transparent solid body, of a doubly convex shape, with the circumference rounded off. It is completely enclosed by a transparent, hiohly ast c membrane kuo.vn as the capsule of the lens. The anterior surface is in mm .- lil Fic. 72.—1, FRONT VIEW ; 2, hind view ; 3, LATERAL view of the fibrous structure of the adult lens (after Arnold), f a, anterior ; p, posterior pole. The direction of the superficial fibres is indicated by the curved lines. contact with the iris towards the pupil, receding from it slightly at the circumference ; the posterior is embedded in the vitreous humour. Around the circumference is the zonula. The capsule is strongest anteriorly (anterior capsule) and thinnest over the Fig. 73.—Diagram to illustrate the course of the fibres in the fostal crystalline lens. (Allen Thomson.) a, anterior ; p, posterior pole. posterior surface of the lens (posterior capsule). Chemically the lens-capsule yields neither elastin nor gelatin, but appears similar in composition to the sarcolemma of muscle and the membranse propriae of glands. An indistinct fibrous and lamellar structure has been described in it. The convexity of the lens is not alike on the two surfaces, being greater behind ; moreover, the curvature is less at the centre than towards the margin When in its natural position it measures about 8mm. to 9mm. across, and about 4mm. from before backwards. The radius of curvature during life of the anterior surface varies with the condition of accommodation from about&10mm when the eye is accommodated for distant vision, to Gmm. when accommodated to the near point of distinct vision. That of the posterior surface is about Gmm. in distant vision and a little less in near vision. In a fresh lens, divested of its capsule, the outer portion is soft and easily detached ; the succeeding layers are of a firmer consistence ; and in the centre the substance becomes much harder, constituting the so-called " nucleus." On the anterior and posterior surfaces are faint white lines directed from the poles towards the circumference ; these in the