LAYERS OP THE RETINA. 41 The gan«dion-cells of the retina may be classed into those the protoplasmic or peripheral processes of which ramify in a diffuse maimer in the inner molecular layer, and those the protoplasmic processes of which are ramified horizontally in one or more ot the strata of that layer where they interlace with similar ramifications from the cells of the inner nuclear layer The diffusely ramifying cells (fig-. 50, VII., i) are usually small and with slender processes and this is also the case with some of the cells with stratified processes (fig. 50, v., a ; VI., e), but many of the latter are larger, sometimes very large (giant cells), and with comparatively C°aThePcells\vVth stratified processes are classified by R. y Cajal according to the stratum of the inner molecular layer in which these processes ramify. Some ramify, however, m two, and even in more layers (bi- and multi-stratified). Three types of the stratified cells can usually be distinguished. They may be termed first, second, and third, or from their relative size, large, medium, and small, and some of each type appear to belong, as regards the dis- tribution of their arborescence, to each stratum of the inner molecular layer. Mrst type —Those of the large type have a thick axis-cylinder process and one, two, or more coarse protoplasmic processes, varying in vertical extent in different cells according to the stratum of the inner molecular layer for which they are destined. Their terminal arborescences extend over a considerable area, and are open in nature. The largest cells of this type (°-iant cells) send their processes to the outer strata of the molecular layer (fig. 53, VTI., a c e) • processes to the inner strata come from cells of the same type but of smaller size. 'Second f y/^.-The ganglion-cells of this type (fig. 50, vi., vn., /, g, //) vary in size of cell-body but are usually smaller than those of the first type, and of pyriform shape, the stalk of the pear being directed outwards for a variable distance in the molecular layer according to the position within this of the terminal arborescence. The latter is composed of moderately fine varicose filaments which form a compact, closely interwoven ramification, occupymg some thickness of the molecular layer, the arborescence being less flattened out than is the case with those from many of the cells of the first and third types. Third tape— This is represented by cells usually pyriform with small cell-bodies and correspondingly fine moderately arborescent processes, which may radiate from the end of a straight outwardly directed stalk, as in the case of those which ramify in the outer strata of the molecular layer (fig. 50, VI., a), or may spring in a similar radiating manner from the body of the cell itself, as with those ramifying in the inner strata (fig. 50, VII., b~). 3. Inner molecular or inner plexiform layer, neurospongium.—Next in order to the ganglionic layer comes a comparatively thick stratum of a granular- looking substance, which as preparations treated by the methods of Ehrlich or of Golgi show, is mainly made up of the arborescent terminations of the processes of the°cells in the layers which bound it internally and externally. A few branched cells, apparently of nervous nature, occur within the layer (fig. 50, Hi.) ; these are probably allied to the amacrine cells of the layer next to be described. The inter- laced arborisations of the ganglion-cells, amacrine cells, and bipolars form withm it definite strata which, according to E. y Cajal, are altogether five in number. There are a few blood-vessels in this layer, and the fibres of Miiller pass through it as fine vertical filaments with delicate lateral offsets. 4. Inner nuclear layer.—This is composed of a number of closely-packed cells, which are frequently known collectively as the " inner granules," but are of several distinct kinds. Some are bipolar nerve-cells, and it is the presence of these Avhich has led to the name ganglion retina being applied to this layer. They occupy the bulk of the stratum and send processes inwards and outwards into the respective molecular layers. Others are multipolar nerve-cells, the processes of which ramify in the molecular layers ; they form incomplete strata close to and partly imbedded in the molecular layers. Others, again, are nucleated enlargements belonging to the fibres of Miiller. The structure and arrangements of each of these elements must be separately considered. a. Bipolar-cells.—These, by far the most numerous, are round or oval clear cells (fig. 50, i., in. ; fig. 51, 4), prolonged at either end into a fibre. Of the processes or fibres which proceed from these cells, the inner one, or that extending into the inner molecular layer, is finer than the other, is always unbranched until reaching that layer, and often exhibits varicosities similar to those on nerve-