IS THE EYE. end-pieoe with the basal part ; consequently, the outer and inner segments of the rods are nearly similar in size and shape, the inner being, however, slightly bulged whereas the inner segment of eacli cone far exceeds the outer one in size, the latter appearing merely as an appendage of the inner segment (fig. 54) The two segments both of the rods and cones exhibit well-marked dffferences in their cnemicaJ and optical characters, as well as in the structural appearances which may be observed ,n them. Thus, whih. in both the outer segment is doubly refracting in its action upon light, the inner is, on the contrary, singly refracting : the inner becomes stained by carmine, iodine, and other colouring fluids, whilst the outer remains uncolourcd by these reagents, but is stained greenish-brown by osmic acid. Hie outer segment in both shows a tendency to break up into a number of minute superposed disks. The inner segment of each is distinguishable into two parts- Figs. 55 and 56.-Sections op frog's retina showing the action op light upon the pigment- cells, and upon the eods and cones, (v. Genderen-Stort.) Fig. 55, from a frog which Lad been kept in the dark for some hours before death. Pig. 56, from a frog which had been exposed to light just before being killed. Three pigment cells are shown in each section. In Fig. 55, the pigment is collected towards the nucleated part of the cell, m Fig 56 it extends nearly to the bases of the rods. In Fig. 55 the rods, outer segments, were coloured red (the detached one green), in Fig. 56 they had become bleached. In Pig. 5o, the cones, which in the lrog are much smaller than the rods, are mostly elongated, in Fig. 56 they are all contracted. • 6 an outer part, composed, according to Max Schultze, of fine fibrils, and an inner parr, homogeneous, or finely granular, and, at the membrana limitans externa, directly con- tinued into a rod or cone-fibre, the disposition of which in the outer nuclear layer has been already described. In the outer segments of the rods there can be detected, by the aid of a powerful microscope, besides a delicate transverse striation (fig. 52)', corresponding to the superposed disks of which, as above mentioned, they appear to be formed* also fine longitudinal markings which are due to slight linear grooves by which they are marked in their whole extent. The ends of the segments are rounded and project into the pigmentary layer, The purplish-red colour of the retina before mentioned (p. 35), resides entirely in the outer segments of the rods (Boll, Kiihne). A few of the rods are, however, at least in some animals, of a green colour. The outer segments of the cones taper gradually to a blunt point, and do not exhibit