90 THE EAR. noticed be ow Another well-marked fold has been already noticed in connection wih the tendon of the tensor tympani, and various other* smaller folds re met with. They^often contain strands of fibrous tissue and sometimes osseous spicules All these folds are, however, very variable in their development I he mucous membrane which lines the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube Z ilT I V mC1mbmn? °f thC Phar^ with it is immediately con! tinuous ; it s I luck and vascular, is covered by ciliated epithelium, and is provided Zit 217 61 mUC°US fW1InCh P°Ur °Ut a thick 8ecretio« : * th~" pait of the tube, however, the membrane becomes gradually thinner. In the tym- panum and the mastoid cells the mucous membrane is paler, thinner and less vascular, and secretes a small amount of less viscid, yellowish fluid.' Accord- ing to most observers no glands are normally met with in the tympanum, but Erause has described and figured simple glands in parts, and Troltsch describes an acinous gland on the external wall, anteriorly. Between the mucous membrane and the periosteum is a network of fibrous bundles, which are here and there raised above the general surface, causing corresponding projections of the mucous mem- brane. In various places on the interlacing bundles, peculiar swellings occur of various sizes, which appear to be caused by the superaddition of concentrically arranged fibres upon the smaller bundles, producing an appearance similar to that ol miniature _ Pacinian corpuscles (Politzer, Kessel). The epithelium in the tympanic cavity is in part columnar and ciliated, with small cells between the bases of the ciliated cells, but the promontory, the ossicula, and the membrana, are covered with a simple layer of flattened non-ciliated cells (Kolliker) ; and a similar non-cihated epithelium is said to line the mastoid antrum and cells Recesses or pouches of the tympanum.—The ossicula, as well as the ligaments which unite them with the wall of the tympanum, and the chorda tympani nerve, are all invested by folds of the lining mucous membrane, which in many cases also pass across the spaces between the several ligaments and bony projections. These uniting folds and the prominences which they cover and connect thus mark off in certain places pouch-like portions of the general cavity. There is a good deal of variation in the extent of development of these folds and pouches but some are fairly constant in their occurrence, and one pouch in particular' between the heads of the malleus and incus and the external wall is nearly shut off trom the rest of the cavity by well marked folds, which pass down from the roof of the tympanum m front of and behind the suspensory ligament of the malleus This pouch may be termed the superior external pouch. Immediately below it and partly separated from it by the anterior and external ligaments of the malleus and a fold of membrane which unites them, is another smaller pouch, described by Prussak, which may be termed the infero-extemal. It is bounded above by the ligaments and folds just mentioned, externally by the membrana flaccida, below and internally by the processus brevis mallei. In front it ends blindly, but behind it opens into the general cavity of the tympanum. This pouch is of considerable importance clinically and pathologically because fluid (e.g., pus) may accumulate in it, especially since its opening into the rest of the posterior pouch is placed somewhat above its floor. It is into this pouch that perforations of the membrana flaccida occur. The fold which passes down from the roof of the cavity towards the mesial part of the neck of the malleus, and which incloses in or near its free border the chorda tympani nerve, also separates off two pouches, one in front of and the other behind the manubrium mallei, and both bounded externally by the membrana tympani. These pouches are the anterior aud posterior pouches of Troltsch. For a detailed description of the various folds and pouches, the student is referred to certain of the memoirs cited in the Bibliography.