110 THE EAR. fibrous layer and there break up into a coarse capillary network, the branches of which do not, id man, pass into the tunica propria. The tunica propria is a clear membranous structure continuous around the whole tube, although tidoning off very much opposite the part whore the membranous oanal is m contact with the bone (fig. 122, .0). Externally it is not very distinctly marked off from the fibrous ooat : internally it has a number of papilliform emi- nences (fig 122, 6,) which project into the interior of the canal except at the thin- nest part (Eudmger). The epithelial lining takes the form of a complete layer of flattened cells which in the human semicircular canals are of the same nature throughout, except along Fig. 122.—Section of membranous semici RCULAR CANAL, MUCH MAGNIFIED. (Riidinger. ) 5 fixerSerfXS' V™10^1'0^ 3' °' PaPiUiform Projections with epithelial covering- l^riostenm ' ^ ^ pr0pria wittout Pa?il]£e ' 7> fibrous bands passing "to the outer part of the lumen, where there is a longitudinal tract of cells which are canal ^ ^ ™S ^ iS sometimes fcermed the raphe of the In many of the lower animals—birds and fishes—some of these limn- cells are columnar wi£ len^h Tl^ ^ >(SaIm° h?Ch?> " dGSCribed * a SonTthe whole length of each canal becomes developed into two rows of rounded cells from each of winch a long filament extends to the wall of the canal in a direction trZ^TS,^ The ampullae, as well as the saccule and utricle, agree generally in structure with the semicircular canals : but at the part where they are connected with the osseous wall the fibrous outer layer is looser, and the tunica propria is much thickened and m the ampullae projects into the cavity as the septum transvermm surmounted by the crista acuslica, before mentioned (fig. 119). Through the substance of this thickening the nerve-fibres pass to the edge of the ridge and over it the epithelium is of an elongated columnar form (fi<jS. 123 to l->6)"and is sur- mounted by long, conical, gradually tapering filaments (auditory hairs (h), ), which project stiffly into the cavity, aud are about 0-03 mm. in length. These hairs are borne by the columnar epithelium-cells (fig. 120), a single hair projecting from each cell, but under the influence of reagents they are apt to become broken near the base, and thus split up into fine fibrils which appear as a bunch of cilium-like filaments attached to the free border of the cell. The columnar cells, or ha,r-, < 7, do not extend down to the basement membrane, but terminate short of this in a