THE EAR. 112 placed below the columnar cells, and in many it is close to the central end of the fibre. The fibres, which are probably sustentacular in function, like the fibres Fig. 125.—Nerve terminations in MACULA ACUSTICA, SHOWN BY GOLGl'8 METHOD. (Gr. RetziuS. ) of Miiller in the retina and the cells of Deiters in the cochlea, expand slightly as they ap- proach the free surface, and appear to become attached to a cuticular structure which en- closes the ends of the hair-cells and is thus comparable to the reticular lamina of the cochlea (Urban Pritchard). On the other hand the fibres are set by their central ends upon a limiting membrane which bounds the epithelium next to the tunica propria, and which appears in section as a fine but well-marked line. Fig. 126.—Section of epithelium of ampulla of lacerta viridis. (GL Retzius.) Magnified. Auditory hairs Nuclei oj suf>poctUy ceils The limit of the auditory epithelium at the sides of the crest is sometimes marked, at least in the human ampullae, by a prominent vessel (fig. 123. r). The auditory hairs were first noticed by Max Schultze. who described them as being connected with the elongated cells and not with those of a columnar shape. Their true relations were pointed out by Retzius, and in this matter my own observations, in the fish and in man, coincide with his. When the cells are isolated after preservation in osmic acid, the separated columnar cells are alone surmounted by auditory hairs, whereas the elongated intermediate cells are not provided with auditory fila- ments. It is worthy of note that the auditory hairs do not in sections made from hardened specimens appear to project freely into the endolymph of the ampulla, but into a soft material which takes a dome-like shape (cujnrfa tcrminalis, Lang), and appears to possess an indistinctly fibrillar structure. If this material is pre-existent (and not merely, as some have supposed, produced by a swelling and alteration of the auditory hairs after death), it is not possible to imagine that the hairs can be set in vibration singly, but whatever movements are communicated to the endolymph, must affect the whole cupula and all the hairs embedded in it. The foregoing description of the characters of the epithelium and mode of nerve-distribution in the crista? acustica? of the ampullae, is equally applicable to the macula? acustica? of the saccule and utricle. The nerves which are supplied to the macules seem, however, to spread out more than those to the ampulla?. The auditory hairs are somewhat shorter than those of the ampulla?. As before mentioned, both saccule and utricle contain in their cavity and lying in contact with the nerve-epithelium a little mass of otoliths, which, however, do not float free in the fluid, but appear imbedded in a soft matrix which is perhaps enclosed in a delicate cuticular investment. Otoliths are also found scattered here and there in the ampulla? and semicircular canals. The membranous cochlea, which occupies the spirally-wound tube of the osseous cochlea consists like this of about two and three-quarter turns, which MtoUULaJxd rwue. fibres