THE EYE. into small bundles, which, compressed laterally, intercommunicate and form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes (fig. ,!<,). At the yellow ! - almost wanting! and indeed it ceases at U^t^^ZStSiiZ a continuous stratum, gradually diminishing in thickness in front, intc 'r p ed lv by the enlarged ends of the fibres of Midler to be afterwards des rib d 2 ]8 f 110 ^ve-bundles, as well as the cells of the next layer, are partially LpporS by neurogha-oells (spider-oells). Most of the fibres are contiguous w tl he Jl cylinder processes of the cells of the next layer (fig. 50 i) but some at ™ mued through the second and third layers, and end by rajdfring ehthei in the mner molecular layer or amongst the elements of the fourth laye^ inn g auule T the terminations being frequently somewhat knobbed or enlarged (fig 50 f Z) 2 Ganghonic layer—Immediately external to the nerve-fibre layer is a stratum of nerve-cells (fig. 48, 2), having in the fresh condition a pe lu id asp ct I m F.Ty Tt 111 merd Vn fig'Ure' S°me bein^ sPh^idal, others morepy - form. Each cell has a single nnbranched nerve-fibre process extending obliquely OptOc, n&rve* Macula, lutea. Fig. 49. Magnified view of the innermost layer of the retina, showing the bundles of UPTIC NERVE FIBRES RADIATING FROM THE PAPILLA. (Merkel.) from its rounded inner extremity amongst the fibres of the preceding layer, with one of which it is continuous. From the opposite end of the cell, which s fre- thTck r It f m SUbStaUCe °f *e SUCCeedi^ ^ 0ne> ^ 'or more much hnw Pr0^lasm!c .Processes extend outwards for a variable distance into that stiatum, and branch m its substance (fig. 50, v., vi., vn.). The branching occurs at different levels for different cells, the smaller cells as a rule having the terminal ramification of their protoplasmic processes nearer the ganglionic layer, the larger ones nearer the inner nuclear layer. The arborisations are mostly flattened conformably with the retinal strata, and in sections of retina produce the appearance of coarse hues m the molecular stratum. The number of nerve-cells and con- sequently the thickness of the ganglionic layer in the different regions of the retina varies largely. Over the greater part of the retina they form a single stratum, but in the neighbourhood of the yellow spot they are placed two or three deep. At the spot itself (fig. 60, 2) they are very thickly set; the cells are also smaller here lowards the ore serrate, on the other hand, there is but a single stratum, and that frequently incomplete.