131 THE MEMBRANOUS COCHLEA. may be termed respectively the basal, middle, and apical, the last-named being incomplete. The total length of the tube is about 35 mm. In structure it resembles the membranous semicircular canals just described in consisting of a tube, lined by epithelium and containing endolymph, partly surrounded by a clear space containing perilymph, but it differs from them both in shape and in the modifica- tions presented by its epithelial lining. In macerated specimens, the two parts into which the osseous tube of the cochlea is divided are, it will be remembered, only imperfectly separated by the osseous spiral lamina which projects from the columella ; but in the fresh specimen the tube is separated completely into three distinct parts by means of two membranes, which extend along its whole length (figs. 127 to 129). In the first place the lamina spiralis is directly prolonged by a comparatively strong, well-marked membrane, the basilar membrane, which stretches straight across to the outer Avail of the cochlea, and is here connected to an inward Fig. 127.—Left cochlea of a child some weeks old (Keichert). \ The drawing was taken from a specimen which had been preserved in alcohol, and was afterwards dried ; a section is made so as to show the lamina spiralis, scalse, and cochlear canal io each of the three coils : the membranous spiral lamina is preserved, but the appearances connected with the orgaD of Corti, &c, have been lost from drying. / r, fossula of the fenestra rotunda. The secondary membrane of the tympanum is seen at the bottom of the fossula attached below to a bony projection of the lower wall (crista semilunaris, to the right of d) ; s t, scala tympani ; s v, scala vestibuli. In the lowermost turn the scala tympani is seen to be the larger : in the higher turns the proportions are reversed ; I s, lamina spiralis ; h, hamulus ; c c, canalis cochlese ; d, opening of the aqueductus cochlea?. Fig. 128.—Vertical section of the cochlea of a fostal calf (Kolliker). £ In this specimen the external wall was ossified, but the modiolus and spiral lamina was still cartilaginous ; the section shows in each part of the cochlear tube the two scala? with the intermediate canalis cochlea? and lamina spiralis. projection of the lining periosteum and sub-periosteal tissue known as the spiral ligament. The basilar membrane thus helps to complete the upper1 limit of the scala tympani but does not, properly speaking, enter into the lower boundary of the scala vestibuli, for a second, much more delicate membrane, known as the membrane of Reissner, passes from the upper part of the lamina a little distance from its end, and stretches obliquely upwards and outwards, also to become connected with the lining periosteum. The oblique direction of the membrane of Reissner causes a triangular space to be shut off between it and the basilar membrane, which is bounded externally by the outer osseous wall of the cochlea lined by periosteum ; and this space, extending throughout the whole length of the osseous tube, and lined throughout by an epithelium variously modified in different parts, is known distinctively as the canal of the cochlea, canalis membranaceus, 1 To avoid repetition it may here be stated that for convenience sake the cochlea is considered in the present description as having its larger part or base lowermost, and the domed extremity uppermost, although of course this is far from being the relative position of the parts whilst within the body. Moreover, parts nearer the columella are spoken of as inner; parts nearer the external wall as outer. VOL. III., PT. 3. I