80 THE EAJ!. meatus. The meatus of the fetus is for the most part closed by apposition of its upper and lower walls, but towards the end of foetal life it becomes occupied with epithelial scales and ear-wax. The cartilage of the external ear and meatus appears to be formed m two or three pieces, the fissures of Santorini marking the junctions of these component portions (Biirkner). THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The tympanum or drum, the middle chamber of the ear, is a narrow irregular cavity in the substance of the temporal bone, placed between the membrane occlud- ing the inner end of the external auditory canal and the outer bony wall of the process Fig. 89.—The eight temporal bone sawn in a coronal plane through the tympanum, vestibule AND AUDITORY MEATUS, THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE SAWN BONE HAVING BEEN TURNED ROUND so as to display both surfaces of the section. Natural size. (Testut.) A, Anterior aspect; B, posterior aspect. labyrinth. Its width between these boundaries varies from about 2 mm. to 4 mm being narrowest opposite the middle of the membrane, and narrower below and in front than above and behind. It measures about 15 mm. from above down and about the same from before back. The vertical measurement includes the so-called recessm epitympanims or audita* ad antrum, which lodges the head of the maUeus and the greater part of the incus : this by Bezold and some other authors is excluded from the tympanum proper, which without it measures about 9 mm. In other words, the entrance to the mastoid antrum and mastoid cells is about 9 mm. above the bottom of the tympanic cavity. The orifice of the Eustachian tube is about 4 mm. above the lowest part of the floor. The tympanum contains a chain of small bones (by means of which the vibra- tions communicated from without to the membrana tvmpani are conveyed across the cavity to the internal ear) and also certain minute muscles and ligaments, which belong to the bones referred to, as well as nerves, some of which end within the cavity, whilst others merely pass through it to other parts. The cavity is otherwise filled with air, for it communicates with the atmosphere through the Eustachian tube, which leads into the pharynx. The bony walls of the cavity are by no means