THE AUDITORY OSSICLES. S9 lateral plate, and from the adjacent membranous part of the floor of the tube, narallel to which its fibres course towards their insertion into the soft palate. When the muscle contracts the membranous floor of the tube is tightened, and is also raised near the ostium pharyngeum by the thickening of the muscular fibres which run just below it, and this helps to open the lower orifice during swallowing. Lastlv some muscular bundles, forming the salpingo-pharyngeus of Santonin, arise from' the lower and fore part of the mesial plate of cartilage, and passing down immediately beneath the mucous membrane, join the palato-pharyngeus (Vol. II., p. 308). This muscle tends to drag the mesial plate backwards and downwards, and thus assists in opening the tube during deglutition. The anterior wall of the tympanum, below the orifice of the Eustachian tube, is formed by a bony plate forming part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, which is hollowed out by air-cells, and here separates the tympanic cavity from the vertical part of the carotid canal. Barely there are one or more deficiencies in this wall. _. „ SMALL BONES OF THE EAR.—Three small bones (osstcula audilus) are contained in the upper part of the tympanum : of these, the outermost (malleus) is attached to the membrana tympani ; the innermost (stapes) is fixed m the fenestra ovalis ; and the third (incus), placed between the other two, is connected to them by articular surfaces. They form together an angular and jointed connecting rod between the membrana tympani and the fenestra ovalis. The malleus or hammer-bone (fig. 97), (18 mm. to 19 mm. long, weight 24 milligr.), consists of an upper thicker portion, with a tapering lower portion, and a.r pr.gr. V\o Q7 A —Thf left malleus of the adult viewed from the outer side. Magnified four times. * g ' (After Helmholtz.) c capitulum- a i, grooved articular surface for the incus ; e, its prominent lower margin ; d, cervix, m end of the manubrium ; 6, processus brevis ; pr.gr, processus gracilis, here represented only by a short stump, the rest of the process having been converted into ligament ; a, ridge to which the external ligament is attached. Pig. 97 B.—Left malleus of a child viewed from before. Magnified four times. (E. A. The lettering is the same as in the previous figure. The processus gracilis is here complete, an^le which the manubrium forms with the rest of the bone is seen in this view. S-) The two processes. The upper end is formed by the rounded head (capitulum) (c), on the posterior surface of which is an elliptical depressed surface (a.i) with prominent margins, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and serves for articulation with the incus. The articular surface shows two principal facets, nearly at right angles to one another. They are separated by a constriction and by an obliquely crossing crest or edge. These facets look respectively, the upper and larger one backwards, the lower one inwards ; and each principal facet is subdivided