THE IRIS. 31 The suspensory ligament of the lens is thus relaxed and the lens becomes more convex. The nerves of the choroid will be described with those of the iris. The iris is the contractile and coloured membrane which is seen behind the transparent cornea, and gives the tint to the eye. In its centre it is perforated by an aperture—the jntjpii , . . . At its circumferential border, which is nearly circular, the iris is continuous with the choroid, and by the ligamentum pectinatum, with the cornea : the free inner edge is the boundary of the pupil. The iris measures about 11 mm. across, and, in a state of rest, about 5 mm. from the circumference to the pupil (slightly lesson the nasal side) : its thickness is about 0'4 mm. The anterior surface, variously coloured in different eyes, is marked by waved lines converging towards the pupil, near which they join in a series of irregular elevations ; and, internal to these, other' finer lines pass to the pupil. The appearance is produced by the sub- jacent blood-vessels. The posterior surface is covered with dark pigment cells (pars retinalis), and is marked by a number of fine converging folds or thickenings prolonged from the ciliary processes. Fig. 38.—Ciliary processes as seen from behind. (Twice the natural size.) 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil ; 2, anterior part of the choroid coat ; 3, ciliary processes. The pupil is nearly circular in form, and is usually placed a little to the inner side of the centre of the iris. It is constantly varying in size during life, the variation ranging from 1 mm. to 8 mm. It is habitually wider in young than in old persons. Structure of the iris.—A delicate connective tissue forms the framework or stroma of the iris (fig. 39). It contains also very numerous vessels and nerves. The endothelial layer of the membrane of Descemet (fig. 36) is continued from the margin of the cornea over the front of the iris ; its cells are smaller and more granular than those which cover the membrane of Descemet, but are otherwise similar. Depressions of some size have been described in this anterior surface of the iris (Fuchs, Nuel and Cornil): these have been termed stomata, but it is doubtful if they are analogous to the openings of the same name which occur in serous membranes and communicate with subjacent lymphatics. The posterior surface of the iris is covered by a layer of pigmented epithelium two or three cells deep. This is continuous with the (retinal) pigmentary layer covering the ciliary processes, and ends abruptly at the margin of the pupil ; it forms what is known as the pars retinalis iridis (pars iridicaretincv), as distinguished from theirs choroiditis or stroma. The stroma consists of cells and fibres of connective tissue, the latter directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In the substance of the iris anteriorly and throughout its thickness are variously-shaped ramified pigment cells like those in the choroid. The pigment contained in them is yellow, or of lighter or darker shades of brown, according to the colour of the eye. The colour of the iris depends partly on the pigment in the cells of the pars retinalis, partly on that in the stroma cells ; in the eye of the infant and in the different shades of blue eye it arises from the black pigment of the posterior surface appearing more or less through the