IS THE EYE. index of refraction, so that in the perfectly fresh condition it is difficult, even with the best lenses, to make out any indications of structure. After death, however and with the assistance of reagents, the cornea may be ascertained to consist of alternating lamellsa of fibrous tissue (about sixty in uumber, according to Bowman) the^planes of which arc parallel to the surfaces of the cornea. The fibres com- posing the lamellte are nearly straight and have a definite direction in each layer ; they cross one another at right angles in the alternate layers (fig. ] 9, b, d). It must' however, be understood that the layers are not individually distinct, but give off frequent offsets to those above and below, so that they cannot readily be stripped away for any distance. The fibrils are collected into roundish bundles, which as Fig. 18.—Vertical section through the epithelium of the cornea, human. (E. A. S.) Highly magnified. c, deepest columnar cells ; p, polygonal cells, immediately above them ; fi, flattened cells of the surface. The section is slightly broken on the right of the figure. The intercellular channels bridged across by processes extending from one cell to another are distinctly seen. well as the laminas they form, are, as in the connective tissue elsewhere, separated from each other by ground-substance. The latter is in greater abundance between the fibrous strata than elsewhere, and in these parts the cell-spaces of the tissue are found. These cell-spaces, which are readily demonstrated by staining the tissue with nitrate of silver (fig. 20, B), are flattened conformably with the lamella, are of an irregularly stellate figure, and freely communicate by their offsets both with others on the same plane and with those above and below. The greater regularity of arrangement which characterises them, as compared with the cell-spaces of con- nective tissue elsewhere, is dependent on the regularly laminated structure of the cornea. The corpuscles of the tissue—corneal corpuscles (fig. 20, A)—lie within the cell- spaces, corresponding generally with them in form, but without entirely filling them, the room left serving for the passage of lymph and lymph-corpuscles. The protoplasm of the corpuscles is clear, except in the neighbourhood of the nucleus, where it is more granular ; the cells send branching processes along the anastomosing canals of the cell-spaces, which join with those of neighbouring corpuscles; In vertical sections the corpuscles appear fusiform (fig. 19, c), but horizontal sections show them to be flattened conformably with the surface. The cell-spaces can be filled with fluid injection by inserting- the nozzle of a fine syringe into the tissue, and employing- a very low pressure ; in this way a network of anastomosing stellate figures is obtained (cell-spaces, Eecklinghausen's canals). If, however, the injection- fluid is dense or too forcibly injected, it becomes extravasated in the interstices of the fibril-bundles, the direction of which it takes; and the appearance is produced of minute swollen tubular passages running at right angles to one another in the different layers (Bowman's corneal tubes). This appearance may still more readily be obtained if air is injected into the tissue instead of mercury (the fluid used by Bowman), and it is seen