100 THE EAR. circular canals : and at the lower and fore part of the cavity is a larger opening whioh communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. The semicircular canals are three tubes, situated above and behind the vesti- bule, into which they open by five apertures, the contiguous ends of two of the canals being joined. They are unequal in length, but each tube is bent so as to form about two-thirds of an ellipse; and is moreover dilated at one end, the enlargement being known as the ampulla. The canals are compressed laterally, and measure 1mm. to l-5mm. across ; but the ampulla has a diameter of about 2mm The canals differ from one another in direction, in length, and in position with regard to the vestibule. The superior semicircular canal (fig. L08, 3, fig. 109, 5), 1 '•> mm. long, is nearly vertical and lies transversely to the bony axis of the petrous B 8.c.e. s.c.s-j). n.vh. n.mvi.s. stntymp. pr. arnp.is. amp. c. aq.Fall. , o.Ev.t. K1 8. Fig. 107.—Portions of the previous figure enlarged. (Testut.) A., anterior ; B., posterior segment, amp.e., amp.s. and amp.p., ampullary orifices of external, superior and posterior semicircular canals ; s.c.e., non-ampullary orifice of the external canal; s.c.s-p., conjoint non-ampullary orifice of the superior and posterior canals ; aq.Fall., aqueductus Fallopii ; f.o., fenestra ovalis ; f.r., fenestra rotunda ; aq.cochl., aqueductus cochleae ; sc.vest., commencement of scala vestibuli: that of the scala tympani is just below it ; lam.sp., spiral lamina ; n. VII., orifice for facial nerve ; n. VIII. s., orifices for superior or vestibular division of auditory nerve ; tr.sp.for., orifices for cochlear nerve ; f.s., foramen siugulare ; pyr., pyramid ; pr., promontory ; sin.tymp., sinus tym- pani ; o.Eu.t., orifice of osseous Eustachian tube. bone, forming an angle of about 45° with the coronal plane ; it rises higher than any other part of the labyrinth, and its place is indicated by a smooth arched projection on the upper surface of the petrous bone. The ampullary end of this canal is the external and anterior, and opens by a distinct orifice into the upper part of the vestibule (fig. 107, s); whilst the opposite extremity joins the non-dilated end of the posterior semicircular canal, and opens by a common aperture with it into the back,part of the vestibule (fig. 107, s.c.s-p.; fig. 109, 3). The posterior semi- circular canal (fig. 108, 5, fig. 109, 6), is also nearly vertical, and lies in a plane which is almost parallel with the superior canal of the other side (Crum Brown). The posterior and superior canals of the same side incline towards one another at their inner ends. The posterior is the longest of the three (22 mm.) : its ampullary end is at the lower and back part of the vestibule (fig. 107, amp.p) ; and the opposite end terminates in the common canal above described (s.c.s-p.). The