ORGANS OF THE SENSES. In this Part will be described the organs of sight, hearing, and smell, and also the taste buds which are found on the tongue and other parts endowed with the sense of taste. The terminations of sensory nerves in the skin and elsewhere have already been described in Vol. I., Part 2, and will only be briefly alluded to in reviewing the whole subject of the ending of nerves of special sense. THE EYE. The organ of vision, strictly speaking, consists only of the ball or globe of the eye ; but connected with the eyeball externally are muscles, nerves, and blood- vessels, elsewhere described, as well as other parts specially destined for its protec- tion (tutamina oculi), of which an account will first be given. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. The eyelids (palpebral) are moveable folds of integument, strengthened towards their margins by a thin lamina of dense fibrous tissue (tarsus). They are about 3mm. thick near their free edge. A mucous membrane (conjunctiva) lines their inner surface, and is reflected thence on the front of the eyeball. The line of reflection is termed the fornix conjunctiva. Fig. 1.—Front view of the right eye, with the EYELIDS DRAWN APART BY BLUNT HOOKS. (Merkel.) Ps, plica semilunaris ; Pis, Pli, punctum lacrimale sup. et inf. ; Car, caruncula lacrimalis ; Lpm, interna tarsal ligament. The upper lid is larger and more moveable than the lower, all the transparent part of the globe being covered by it when the eye is closed ; it is chiefly by the elevation of this lid that the eye is opened, the movement being effected by a muscle (levator palpebral) devoted exclusively to this purpose. At the outer and inner angles (canthi) of the eye the eyelids are United. The interval between the angles varies in different individuals, averaging about 28mm. (Fuchs), and, according to its extent, gives the appearance of a larger or a smaller eye, the size of the globe being nearly the same in all. The greater part of the edge of each eyelid is flattened and angular, but towards the inner canthus it is rounded off for a short space, at the same time that it changes its direction, so that a rounded bay is here left between the two eyelids ; this bay has been termed the lachrymal reservoir (locus lacrimalis) ; at this point there is seen on each lid a slight elevation (papilla lacrimalis),—the apex of which is pierced by the aperture (punctum) of a small canal (canaliculus lacrimalis) which serves to convey away the fluid which moistens the conjunctiva (fig. 1, Pli, Pis). (See also figs. 9, 10, and 11.) In the greater part of their extent the lids are applied to the surface of the eye- ball ; but at the inner canthus, at the lachrymal lake, there intervenes a vertical fold vol. in.—pt. 3. n