86 THE EAR. which when traced back is found to turn downwards in the posterior wall of the tympanum sometimes opening at the base of the cranium by a small aperture just m front of the stylomastoid foramen, and connected at one or two places with the descending part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. A small bony spiculum often connects tbe end of the pyramid with the upper part of the promontory (see fig 93 15 23) Anterior boundary. Canal for the tensor tympani.-The interior extremity of the tympanum is narrowed by the gradual descent of the roof and is continued into the inner orifice of the Eustachian tube (fio- 85)' Above the commencement of this is the small (2 mm. diameter) canal0which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. This canal, which is lined by a fibrous membrane, is about half an inch (12 mm.) long, and it opens immediately in front external pterygoid plate internal pterygoid plate Eustachian cartilage Eustachian cartilage carotid foramen jugular foramen posterior condylar foramen, palate bone nasal fossn; scaphoid fossce foramen ovale foramen laccrum occipital condyle foramen magnum Fig. 94.—Base of the skull, showing the position of the eustachian cartilage. (Modified from Testut.) (E. A. S.) of the fenestra ovalis, surrounded by the expanded and everted end of the cochleariform process, which separates it from the Eustachian canal. The bony septum between the two canals is often incomplete, so that in the macerated bone they may appear as a single large canal partly subdivided by a thin osseous partition. In the recent state the fibrous sheath of the tendon is expanded over the end of the canal, so as to impart to it a conical shape (see fig-. 101, tt). The Eustachian tube (salpinx) (fig. 85, 4) is a canal about 86 mm. (1-5 inches) long and from 2 mm. to 4 or 5 mm. diameter, bounded partly by bone, partly by cartilage and fibrous membrane, which leads from the cavity of the tympanum to the upper part i of the pharynx. From the opening into the tympanum (ostium tympanicum) it is directed forwards and inwards, at an angle of about 45 degrees with the sagittal plane, with an inclination of about 30 degrees downwards from the horizontal; the downward inclination is slightly greater in the