THE EAJt. no When the linihus is viewed from above, the vestibular edge is seen to present a succession of tooth-like projections (fig. 182, Cr), about 7,000 in number alto- gether, which give it a jagged aspect. These projections are continued as flattened eminences a short distance on the upper surface of the limbus, which is, therefore, not smooth, at least near the edge, but marked in this way with eminences and intervening furrows. Nearer the line of origin of the membrane of Reissner, it becomes smoother, and here, too, its epithelial covering, which is directly continuous with that of the under surface of Keissner's membrane, is evenly distributed ; whereas at the crest itself the epithelial cells are columnar in the furrows, but flattened out over the teeth, so as to be invisible here with ordinary methods of preparation. Their outlines can, however, according to G. Retzius, be brought to view by the employment of the silver method. Immediately below the overhanging projections, the epithelium again forms a -well-defined layer of cubical or short columnar cells which hues the spiral groove, and is continuous externally with the specialized cells, presently to be described as forming the organ of Corti. The basilar membrane stretches, as before mentioned, straight between the osseous lamina and the spiral ligament, and separates the canal of the cochlea from the Fig. 132.—Semi-diagrammatic view of part of the basilar membrane and tunnel of corti of the rabbit, from above and the side. Much magnified. (E.A.S.) I, limbus ; Or, labium vestibulare or crest of limbus with tooth-like projections ; b b, basilar mem- brane ; sp.l, spiral lamina with, p, perforations for transmission of nerve fibres. In the lower half of the part of the spiral lamina here represented the nerve fibres are left, and are supposed to be seen through the upper layer of that lamina, converging to three of the perforations ; below, in the section of the lamina, they are shown occupying a canal, or cleft, in the osseous substance ; i.r, fifteen of the inner rods of Corti ; h.i, their flattened heads seen from above ; e.r, nine outer rods of Corti ; h.e, their heads, with the phalangeal processes extending outward from them and forming, with the two rows of phalanges, the lamina reticularis, l.r. On the left of the figure the connective tissue fibres and nuclei of the undermost layer of the basilar membrane are seen through the upper layers. Portions of the basilar processes of the outer hair-cells remain attached here and there to the membrane at this parr. scala tympani. It increases in breadth, at first rapidly but afterwards more gradu- ally, from the base to the apex of the cochlea, while the breadth of the osseous spiral lamina diminishes. At the lowest part of the cochlea, where this membrane occupies the narrow cleft between the lamina spiralis ossea and the lamina secundaria, the breadth is only about 0-041 mm. ; but towards the apex of the cochlea it increases at the expense of the bony lamina, until, near the helicotrema, the membranous part is left almost unsupported by any plate of bone, measuring as much as 0*495 mm., or about twelve times as much as at the base (Hensen). The average measurements given by Retzius are, for the first or basal turn 0*21 mm. ; for the middle turn 0'34 mm.; and for the apical turn 0*36 mm. Its total breadth averages, according