124 THE EAR. membrane. In its situation relative to the auditory epithelium it corresponds to the otolithic accumulations of the macules. Nerves of the cochlea.—The branch of the auditory nerve which goes to the cochlea ls given ofl m common with those to the saccule and the posterior ampulla, Fig. 142.—General view of the mode op dis- tribution or the cochlear nerve, all the OTHER PARTS HAVING BEEN REMOVED. (Arnold.) It is shorter, flatter, and broader than any of the other branches. It perforates the bone by groups of minute foramina at the bottom, of the internal meatus, below the opening of the Fallopian aqueduct. These groups are arranged in a shalloAv spiral furrow (tractus spiralis foraminulentus) in the centre of the base of the cochlea ; and they lead into small bony canals, which first follow the direction of the axis of the cochlea, through the modiolus, and then radiate outwards, between the plates of the the bony spiral lamina (fig. 129). In the centre of the spiral tract is a larger foramen which leads to the central canal of the modiolus. Through this foramen and canal the Fig. 143.—Distribution of the cooh LEAR NERVES IN THE SPIRAL LAMINA. (After Henle.) This figure shows part of the modiolus and .spiral lamina, viewed from the base, showing the plexiform arrangement of the cochlear nerves ; 1, filaments of the nerve issuing from the tractus spiralis foramimi- lentus ; 2, branches of the nerve entering the central canal of the modiolus ; 3, wide plexus in the bony lamina spiralis ; 4, close plexus at its border. Fig. 144.—Part of the nerves ex- tracted AND MORE HIGHLY MAGNI- FIED. 2, twigs of the nerve from the modiolus close to the lamina spiralis ossea; gs, spiral ganglion ; fs, nerve- fibres running spirally along the outer part of the ganglionic swelling 3, wide plexus ; 4, close plexus of nerve-fibres as in fig. 143. filaments for the last half-turn of the spiral lamina are conducted ; whilst the first two turns are supplied by the filaments which occupy the smaller foramina and bent canals, i^ear the root of the spiral lamina the nerve-fibres pass outwards through a spirally wound ganglionic cord {ganglion spifale), situated in the special bony canal {spiral canal of the modiolus)already mentioned. The cells of this ganglion are bipolar and each nerve-fibre appears to have one of the cells interpolated in its course. From the outer side of the ganglion, the fibres, having resumed their medullary sheath, pass onwards with a plexiform arrangement, at first in distinct but anastomosing cords (fig. 144, 3),