84 THE JiAK. membrane is not quite circular but is prolonged superiorly and posteriorly into a somewhat triangular- extension, which lies parallel and close to the lamina spiralis cochlea, and forms an angle with the principal part of the membrane ; the latter looks somewhat backwards and downwards, as well as outwards. Another fossa is seen on the inner wall, behind the promontory and between the iossula ovahs and fossula rotunda, from each of which it is separated by a bony prominence while behind it is the base of the pyramid (see below). This fossa, wraicfi has been named the sinus tympani, is about 4 mm. in diameter and 3 mm antrum mastoideum sii rface for attachment of short process of incus ooc/ilcariform process for tindon of tensor tympani canal for tensor tympani r carotid canal sinus posterior groove for Eusta- chian tube canal for tympanic nerve protub. styloidea Fig. 93 A.-bECTION OP THE RIGHT PETROUS BONE PASSING THROUGH THE MJLI.LE OF THE TTMPAHIO CAVITY SO AS TO EXPOSE THE INNER WALL OF THAT CAVITY AND TO EXHIBIT ITS CONNEXION with neighbouring spaces within the bone. (E. A. S.) About twice the natural size. deep. The ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal lies close to its floor, and it is marked by one or two small apertures for vessels (Steinbriigge). The posterior wall of the tympanum has at its upper part a large opening which leads into a considerable air-space (antrum mastoideum, figs. 93, A and B) behind and above the proper tympanic cavity. From this antrum numerous irregular cavities, the mastoid cells, pass into the substance of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. These cells communicate for the most part freely with one another, and are lined by a thin mucous membrane continuous with that of the tympanum. In the foetus and new-born child the mastoid cells are not developed (corresponding with the slight development of the mastoid process), but the antrum mastoideum is formed at birth. The petroso-squamosal fissure passes through the antrum. The