H 2 0 THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 99 THE OSSEOUS LABYBINTH. The vestibule forms a central chamber of the labyrinth, which communicates in front with the cochlea, and behind with the semicircular canals. It is irregularly ovoidal in shape, measuring about 5mm. from above down and from before back but slightly less from without inwards. The outer wall, which separates it from the cavity of the tympanum, is perforated by the fenestra ovalis, which in the recent state is closed by the base of the stapes. At the fore part of the inner wall is a small round pit, the fovea hemispherica (fig. 108, 2 ; fig. Ill), pierced with many minute holes, which serve to transmit branches of the auditory nerve from the internal auditory meatus to the saccule. This fossa is limited behind by a vertical ridge named crista vestibuli, the anterior the fenestra ovalis. Natural size. (Testut.) A, anterior, B, posterior segment, showing the cut surfaces. m.e., meatus extornus ; m.tymp., groove for membrana tympani; c.tymp., tympanic cavity ; antr.mast., antrum mastoideum ; pr., promontory ; or.Eu.t., orifice of Eustachian tube ; f.o., fenestra ovalis ; f.r., fenestra rotunda ; each., commencement of cochlea ; m.i, meatus audit, mternus ; art.car., carotid artery. extremity of which has been termed the pyramid of the vestibule, and merges on to the roof. The crista passes backwards and downwards and bifurcates behind the fovea hemispherica ; the fork encloses a small fossa, which was termed rccessu* cochlearis by Reichert: it receives the beginning of the ductus cochlearis and is pierced with a number of holes for the passage of nerve-fibres (fig. Ill, fossa cochlearis). Behind the lower part of the crest is the small oblique groove which deepens into a fine canal, the aqueduct of the vestibule (fig. 108, 4). This extends to the posterior surface of the petrous bone and transmits the ductus endo- lymphaticus (p. 105) and a small vein. In the roof is an oval depression, placed somewhat transversely, fovea hemi- elliptica (fig. 108,1 ; fig. Ill), which is separated by the crest from the hemispherical fossa. The crest and pyramid close to this fossa are pierced with fine holes for the passage of nerve-fibres, those in the crest itself being destined for the utricle : those in the pyramid for the ampullse of the superior and external semicircular canals. At the back part of the vestibule are five round apertures, leading into the semi-