56 THE EYE. nerve furnished by the central artery. The arteries of the retina have the usual coats, but the veins resemble capillaries iu structure, their w.11 S2f7 Single layer of endothelial cells without any muscular tissue. Outside theeZ^ial layer is a space perivascular lymphatic space, His) both in the ve n and c pHla s bounded externally by a second endothelial layer (forming the wall Z th* \ T?' space). Outside this again is found, in the cLe of X fe ay £K"if I pecuhar retiform tissue. These perivascular lymphatic spaces' are L coScaSon nasal temporal Scl w n se a v 3 n se 2 ardu, Fig' ^;,7CTS1"i°TI0N THR°UGH THB PLACE 0P ^TRANCE OP THE OPTIC NERVE (B), TOGETHER WITH THK ^crSegeirop the msk (A)> to show the ooaBEsp °™ "arts " ™™ c, d, lines of correspondence ; I, depression in centre of disk ■ r retina • rh r>hn™;H • »; ■>„ ■ and outer parts of the sclerotic coat, . f ci, a ciliary artery cut lo^it dtally fa v Sal arteVS Hi shir riTe^nai' subarach™d roc; i*duraisheath > ^JiSSSSlSSt; p, piai sneatn , «, nerve bundles; se. septa between them. with the lymphatic spaces of the optic nerve, and may be filled by injecting coloured fluid under the sheath which that nerve derives from the pia mater. Other lymph- spaces also become injected by the same process, viz., the interstices between the nerve-bundles which radiate from the papilla optici, the capillary space between the hmitans interna and the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, and finally even the irregular interstice between the pigmentary layer and the layer of rods and cones (Schwalbe). With one or two exceptions (Chelonia, eel) no vertebrates below mammals have blood-vessels in the retina: even in some mammals the distribution is restricted to the posterior part of the eye and to the nerve-fibre layer. Interconnection of the retinal elements.—It is only comparatively recently, by the aid of the method of Ehrlich (staining intra vitam with methyl-blue) and that of Golgi (chromate of silver impregnation), that histologics have been able