Lfi THE EYE. Structure of the sclerotic.-The sclerotic coat is formed of bundles of famed with fine elastic elements, and amongst them lie numerous connective- tissue corpuscles lodged in cell-spaces, but not by any means so regularly alnged as in the cornea. Some of the cells are pigmented. The bundles are disposed n layers bo h longitudinally and transversely, the longitudinal arrangemei fc bein" ;'mt b,Ch,nd aud afc the surfaces' fche transverse or circular nL the corneal See communicate at intervals so as not to be separable for any wli?l?rnalIJ eternally the sclerotic is covered with flattened endothelial cells, winch are reflected over the muscles, vessels, nerves, and connecting bands of tissue which pass from it to the capsule of Tenon and the choroid coat respectively, coat (pH$ reSGI m 8tl*UCtUre thG lamina suPracIloroidea of the choroid hmiSl a.nfiri0r T6 0i,thl SCler0tiC fl"0m ab0Ut fche line of attachment of the tendons oi the recti muscles forwards to the cornea, is covered by the conjunctiva Fig. 17. — Termination in end-bulbs of the neiives op the conjunctiva. (Longworth.) which is reflected on to the globe from the eyelids, and which is connected with the sclerotic by loose areolar (subconjunctival) tissue. This part of the conjunctiva is formed of somewhat dense connective tissue covered by a stratified epithelium of some thickness. It is a fairly vascular membrane, and contains a network of lymphatics, which begin at the edge of the cornea by tapering capillaries. Its nerves are mostly medullated : some pass towards the cornea, others end in the membrane itself, many in end-bulbs (W. Krause). A few blood-vessels derived from the short ciliary and the anterior ciliary arteries, permeate the fibrous texture in the form of a network of capillaries with very wide meshes. Those from the anterior ciliary emerge from under the tendons ot the recti muscles, dividing into branches as they pass towards the margin of the cornea. Before reaching this, however, they dip into the substance of the sclerotic and they here take on a radial disposition in the thickness of that coat. Other vessels derived from the posterior ciliary arteries form a wide-meshed network at the surface of the sclerotic in its posterior three-fourths, and like those from the anterior ciliary communicate freely with deeper vessels in the substance of the membrane. At the posterior part of the sclerotic its vessels are continuous with those of the dural sheath of the optic nerve. Around this nerve the scleral branches of the posterior ciliary arteries form an arterial circle (circulus Zinnii) which gives branches to the optic nerve and choroid as well as to the sclerotic. The vessels of the conjunctival membrane, which are derived from the palpebral and achrymal arteries, are readily distinguishable from those of the subjacent sclerotic by their more tortuous course, and by the fact that they shift upon the globe when the conjunctiva is pulled upon. Near the edge of the cornea they communicate with