44 THE EYE. the cone-bipolars have their horizontal arborescence extendi,,. over a Iarffe . the outer molecular layer Cfie- 50 i f m /■ „\ , ,. i u 11 -1 g ea 01 considerable number In birds, reptiles, and amphibia some of the bipolar cells-probably correspond mg to those described above as cone-bipolars . iv, off from \hX ^ V within the outer molecular layer a n branched -^^Z^mTS and just beyond the meinbrana limitans externa (fibril of LandoU)where inn n ends ,n a chvafce enlargement (fig. 51, E). According J S t absent » mammals and teleosteans. J ent m The relative length of the inner and outer process of the bipolar* natnmllv d ffers according to the position of the individual cell in the nuclTkyer if t cell s near the inner molecular layer the outer process will have a longe course to each the outer molecular layer, and, conversely, if the cell is near die latter At and near the central fovea these processes or fibres of the inner nuclea 1^ have a Fig. 51.—Section op bihd's RETINA, PREPARED BY GOLGl's METHOD. (R. v Cajal.) J A, J3, large spongioblasts of inner nuclear layer; C, smaller spongioblast of the same layer; D, small bi- polar cells with one process, a, b, ending in terminal rami- fications in the inner molecular layer, and the other process ending partly in a flattened ramification in the outer mole- cular layer and partly in a filament which ends at the external limiting membrane in an enlarged extremity (at E) ; F, TOd and cone nuclei ; H, I, cells with ramifications in the outer molecular layer ; J, fibre of Miiller. IlX ) "i, i f"' - tTersulyce°sbliqUe direCti°n' * °fchei' **** °f ^ refciUa th<* run Deai^ vertica% t0 b Spongioblasts (of.inner molecular layer) of W. Miiller: arnacrim* cells of Caja .-These, which are placed in the inner part of the inner nuclear layer, form an almost complete stratum, which is termed by Cajal the layer of amacrine cells As this name implies it has not hitherto proved possible to demonstrate the* existence of an axis-cylinder process in these cells (which arc nevertheless regarded by Cajal as nerve-cela-), but they possess, on the other hand, extensively ramified protoplasmic processes which are wholly included within the inner molecular layer and mostly form horizontal arborisations in the several strata of that layer There are several kinds of these cells, which differ amongst one another much in the ' a, privative ; fiai<p6s, long ; ivos, fibre, m LdmS' f ?tU1; Tl alI,Phibia tLerc ■» * certain number of large cells in this layer which have