85 THE RETINA. what flattened in form, arc partly imbedded in grooves on the inner surface of the sclerotic, and communicate occasionally with each other before supplying- the cornea and entering the ciliary muscle. When the sclerotic is carefully separated from the subjacent structures, these nerves are seen lying on the surface of the choroid, Fjcr. 44.—Distribution of nerves in the iris ' (Kblliker). 50 Diameters. The preparation was from the eye of an albino rabbit; a, smaller branches of the ciliary nerves advancing from the choroid ; b, loops of union between them at the margin of the iris ; c, arches of union in the iris ; c', finer plexus in the inner part; e, sphincter pupillae muscle. into which they send branches, and in which they form a gangliated plexus amongst the blood-vessels, the groups of ganglion-cells being often applied to the walls of the vessels. Within the ciliary muscle the nerves also subdivide minutely, forming here another plexus, which contains a number of medullated fibres, and the cells of which are smaller. A few recurrent branches appear to pass back from it into the choroid coat, but the greater number pass on to the iris (fig. 44, a, a). In the iris the nerves follow the course of the blood-vessels, dividing into branches, which communicate with one another as far as the pupil, forming a close plexus of fine non-medullated fibres. Their ultimate destination is probably mainly the muscular tissue of the iris and of its vessels. THE RETINA. The retina is a delicate membrane, which contains the expanded termination of the optic nerve. It lies within the choroid coat, and rests on the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It extends forwards nearly to the outer edge of the ciliary processes of the choroid, where it ends in an indented border, named ora serrata (fig. 45). From this border there is continued onwards a thin layer of a different structure and containing no nerve-fibres, the pars ciliaris retina, which reaches as far as the tips of the ciliary processes, and there gives place to the double layer of pigment known as the uvea, which is continued on to the posterior surface of the iris {pars iridica retince). The thickness of the retina diminishes from behind forwards, from 0'5 mm. near the yellow spot to 0*1 mm. at the ora serrata. In the fresh eye it is translucent and of a light pink colour, but of a purple-red colour if kept in the dark for a little while before removal. Under the influence of sunlight it is quickly bleached and after death it soon becomes opaque. The colouring matter was discovered by Boll and has been specially investigated by Kiihne, who has given it the name of rhodopsin. It is absent at the yellow spot and central fovea, and also close to the ora serrata. The outer surface of the retina is covered with a layer of hexagonal pigment-cells which send fine offsets between the elements of the next retinal layer : the rhodopsin becomes developed in this layer by the agency of these pigment-cells. When the choroid is detached these offsets are ruptured and the pigment-cells come away with it, so that this layer was formerly described as part of the choroid coat. The inner surface of the retina is smooth : on it the following objects may be seen. In the axis of the ball is a yellow spot—macula lutea Qimbus luteus, Sommerring)—which is somewhat elliptical in shape (fig. 45), and about 1 to 2 mm. in diameter : in the centre of this, again, is a slight hollow, fovea centralis, 0"2 mm. to 0*4 mm, in diameter (fig. 45), and, as the retina is thinner here than elsewhere, i> 2