139 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NASAL FOSSAE. they are small and thinly scattered, and both the hairs and glands are absent near the posterior limit of the vestibule, which is marked off by a curved prominence (limen vestibuli) from the nasal fossae proper. At this line the stratified epithelium of the vestibule passes into the ciliated epithelium of the fossa?, and the cutaneous glands are replaced by compound mucous glands. At the front of the vestibule, enclosed by the curved cartilage of the aperture, is a shallow cul-de-sac known as the ven tricle of the nares. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The pituitary or Schneiderian membrane, which lines the cavities of the nose, is a highly vascular mucous membrane, inseparably united with the periosteum and perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the nostrils; with the mucous membrane of the pharynx through the posterior nares ; with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct and lachrymal canaliculi ; and with the lining membrane of the several sinuses which communicate with the nasal fossa?. it frontal sinus upper cartilage lateral of cartilage aperture sphenoidal antrum- post, border of septum Eustachian aperture salpingo-phar. fold soft palate nasal septum Fig. 157.—View of the septum nasi fhom the right side. vestibule The pituitary membrane, however, varies much in thickness and vascularity in different parts. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinate bones (particularly the inferior) and on the septum nasi it is also very thick and spongy ; but in the intervals between the turbinate bones, and over the floor of the nasal fossae, it is considerably thinner. In the maxillary, frontal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and in the ethmoidal cells, the lining mucous membrane is very thin and pale, and contrasts strongly with that which lines the nasal fossa?. The character of the epithelium varies in different parts, and by this, in a general way, three regions of the nasal fossae may be distinguished. Thus, the region of the external nostrils (the vestibule) is lined with stratified squamous epithelium ;