58 THE EYE. THE VITREOUS BODY. The vitreous body occupies the greater portion of the eyeball. It is quite pellucid m aspect, and of a soft gelatinous consistence. Sub-globular in form, it fills about four-fifths of the ball, and serves as a support for the delicate retina, but it may be readily separated from the latter, except behind, at the entrance Of the optic nerve where the connection is closer, the retinal vessels having here entered it ni foetal hie. At the fore part it is hollowed out {fossa palel/aris) for the reception of the lens and its capsule, to which it is closely adherent. The vitreous humour contains 98'5 % of water. The solids are chiefly salts and extractives, witn a trace of proteid and nucleoalbumin. The surface of the vitreous humour is covered everywhere by a thin glassy membrane, named hyaloid, which lies between it and the retina. In the hist edition Fig. 66.—Horizontal section of thk horse's hardened in chromic acid (after Hannover). EYE The vitreous humour appears concentrically and me- ridionally striated throughout its whole depth. of this work it was stated that, according to the most recent observations, there is no binding membrane between the vitreous humour and the lens capsule, but it has been shown by Anderson Stuart that the older view regarding this subject is more correct, for after removal of the lens within its capsule it is still possible to demon- strate the existence of a delicate glassy mem- brane over the fossa patellars in the front of the vitreous humour, and this can be none other than a continuation of part of the hyaloid membrane. No vessels enter the vitreous humour in the adult, and its nutrition must, therefore, be dependent on the surrounding vascular structures, viz., the retina and the ciliary processes. _ Although in the fresh state apparently structureless, or at least presenting under the microscope but faint traces of fibres and a few cells—the so-called corpuscles of the vitreous Fig. 67.—Transverse section op human ete hardened in chromic acid, showing radial striation of the vitreous body (after Hannover). humour to which we shall immediately recur.—yet in preparations hardened in weak chromic acid, or acted upon in certain other ways, it is possible to make out a more or less distinct lamellation of the vitreous body, especially in its peripheral part, that, namely, nearest the retina ; which part in the human eye has a somewhat firmer rfin-c rr v -u x. co,nsistence than the more central portion. From the appearances Cngs. 66, 67) which haye been obtained by such modes of preparation it has been conjectured by various observers that at least in this part the vitreous substance is divided into com- partments by a number of delicate membranes arranged concentrically and parallel to the ZTlV f ? S ?x™tence of ™ch membranous partitions has not been conclusively demonstrated That however, the vitreous substance does in some way consist of a firmer matenal—either m the shape of continuous membranes, or, as H. Virchow states, in the form ?w -f lBs-enclosm£ in ifcs meshes the more fluid portion, is shown by the fact that it either the whole or a piece of the vitreous humour be thrown upon a filter, a small Proportion- always remains upon the latter ; although by far the larger part drains away, and may be collected as a clear watery fluid.