117 THE BASILAR MEMBRANE. to Retzius, 33*5 mm. The basilar membrane is usually described as showing two zones, viz., the zona arcuata, which is the part upon which the rods of Corti stand, and the zona pectinata, extending from the feet of the outer rods to the spiral liga- Fig. 133.—Basilar membrane ani> limbus viewed from above. Magnified. (Gr. Retzius.) rnent, the latter zone being somewhat thicker and much more distinctly fibrous. The proper substance of the membrane appears to be formed of a homogeneous ground-substance containing nuclei embedded in it here and there, and having straight fibres (running radially from the spiral lamina to the external spiral ligament) embedded in it, so that the membrane, especially its outer part, presents a marked striation when viewed on the sur- face (fig. 133). Externally, at its attachment to the spiral ligament, it breaks up into diverging fibres, which spread into that pro- jection. In a section of the membrane across the direction of its fibres the latter appear as fine points enclosed by the homogeneous Zona, pectinata. luitk fibres of botsUcw mem,- brajte- Feet of outer fools Nuyclei of root ceils Ijj %onoi. Osrcuata. •V of basilar l .ffiernMraATje, ■ '«*»••• • <• • - •• • ■ - -^^r^r Q0oooooooooooooooooooooooopooo"oo°0f ooggjg Forarrii/n/x. Fig. 134.—Tangential section across the zona PECTINATA OF THE BASILAR MEMBRANE OF THE guinea-pig. (Schwalbe.) Highly magnified. bcun/jn^t. ground-snbstance (fig. 134). In chemical nature they resemble elastic fibres but are rather less resistant to alkalies and most other reagents. It has been calculated by Retzius that there are altogether as many as 24,000 of these fibres in the human membrana basilaris, but they do not all run singly, some being grouped together. On the upper surface of the membrane is the epithelium which forms the organ of Corti, continued laterally by a single layer of cells (fig. 131) : a delicate cuticular layer which is seen in section is perhaps formed by this epithelium. On the under surface the membrane is covered by a layer of connective tissue (often described as part of the membrane), the fibres of which have a direction parallel with the spiral, and across that of the fibres of the membrane proper. There are numerous intermixed spindle- shaped corpuscles in this tissue, which is in continuity with the lining periosteum of the scala tympani (fig. 134). Small blood-vessels _3 found in it, but as a rule extending only over the inner part of the membrane. They are usually terminated by a rather larger longitudinally running vessel, situated opposite the outer rods of Corti, and known as the vas spvrale (fig. 136). I Tbotk-tiMe, j! projections ;t; of litribus W.-f/uucUZofcetis w of Umbws are