5(.) THIS VITREOUS BODY. In addition to the above-mentioned concentric striatum, a ^^^^f^S observed in sections of vitreous humour made transversely to thea™°*%^U; but whether there is any pre-existent structure to account for it is not known. It is con Livable that these appearances may be merely produced by the manner m which the albuminous substance has undergone coagulation by the reagent employed. iThasalso been shown by fvvanhoff. Younan and A. Stuart that the periphery of the vitreouTnumou^ear the ciliary body, is considerably strengthened and rendered more content by the^rCe of an accumulation of fibres which encircle this part of the V^**£%* of tS Peye, and are believed to aid in supporting the ciliary body and the attachment ot the snsoensory ligament of the lens to that body. The fibrous structure m question appears to be contTnuous with the fibres of the zonula of Zinn (see below), which here strengthen the hyaloid membrane. There further exists, nearly but not quite in the axis of the eye, a definite structure in the shape of a distinct canal, about 2 mm. m diameter, filled with fluid and extending from the papilla optici to the back of the lens-capsule, where it apparently terminates blindly (fig. 69). This is the canalis hyaloideus or canal of Stilling. It is best shown in the fresh eye, and may be also injected by forcino- a coloured solution under the pia-matral sheath of the optic nerve (Schwalbe). The canal widens somewhat towards its posterior part; its wall is composed ot an extremely delicate homogeneous membrane. It represents the place of passage of an offset from the central artery of the retina to the capsule of the lens m the foetus, and from it lymph may pass into the lymphatic spaces of the optic nerve behind, and perhaps in front round the edge of the lens into the canal of Petit. Pig_ 68.—Cells op vitreous humour^ (Schwalbe.) a and d, without vacuoles ; b, c, c, f, g, vacuolated. Scattered about throughout the sub- stance of the vitreous humour are a variable number of corpuscles, for the most part possessed of amoeboid move- ment. Some of these cellsare remarkable for the very large vacuoles which they contain, and which distend the body of the corpuscle, pushing the nucleus to one side ; the cell-processes are often peculiar in possessing numerous little secondary bud-like swellings, or they may present a varicose appearance, like strings of pearls. Suspensory apparatus of the lens.—The hyaloid membrane invests, as before mentioned, the whole of the vitreous humour. As the ora serrata it is apparently split into two layers, one, which must be regarded as the hyaloid membrane proper, being that which has been already mentioned as demonstrable over the anterior surface of the vitreous humour. The other layer into which the hyaloid appears to split adheres to the pars ciliaris retina so closely that when removed it generally shows some of the pigmented cells of that structure adher- ing to its outer surface. It forms a fibrous structure much firmer in consistence than the true hyaloid, and extends over the ciliary body inwards to be attached to the capsule of the lens, for which it forms a suspensory apparatus, known as the zonula of Zinn, or zonula ciliaris (fig. 70, z). Its free part, which stretches from the ciliary body to the lens capsule, is termed the suspensory ligament of IhB lens. The posterior part, or hyaloid proper, is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is readily thrown into folds when detached. Under the microscope it presents no