VESSELS OF THE LABYRINTH. 109 ganglion of the cochlear branch lies within the modiolus, at the base of the spiral Famuia (ganglion spirate). All the cells of these several ganglia are, tapotor.The nerves of the ampullae enter the flattened or least prominent side of the ampu lae, where tLj eac^form a forked swelling, which corresponds with the crista acustica, in the interior of the dilatation. . Vessels of the labyrinth.—The internal auditory artery, a branch of the basilar accompanies the auditory nerve in the internal auditory meatus, and divides into bChVfor the vestibule" and cochlea. Those of the vestibule supply the membranous labyrinth and the endosteum, and small vessels ensheathed by fibrous Zue pass across the cavity containing the perilymph. The blood is chiefly collected into the internal auditory veins which accompany the artery and open into the inferior petrosal sinus, but some is conveyed to the inferior petrosal sum bv flue veins in the aqueductus vestibuli and aqueductus cochlea. Small arterial branches from the vessels of the dura mater and also from the sty o-mastoid artery and from vessels of the middle ear, supply the bony walls of the labyrinth, but do not appear to anastomose with the arteries of the membranous labyrinth Structure of the utricle, saccule, and semicircular canals. — lnree layers can be distinguished in the membranous walls of the semicircular canals, an Fig. 121.—Section of one op THE HUMAN SEMIGIECULA.il canals. (Riidinger.) Mag- nified. 1, osseous wall ; 2, fibrous bands with included blood-vessels, united at 3 with the periosteum ; 4, membranous canal with its three layers; 5, short fibrous bands (with intervening spaces) uniting the membranous canal firmly to the periosteum ; 6, union of its outermost layer with the periosteum. outer fibrous stratum, an inner epithelial lining, and between the two a tunica propria. These layers are not of equal thickness throughout, for along the side which is in contact with and supported by the bone (fig. 122, 6), they are thinner than at the rest of the circumference, where they lie free and are bathed by the perilymph. The difference in thickness affects the fibrous layer and the tunica propria only, for the epithelium forms throughout a lining of simple flattened cells. The fibrous layer (fig. 122, 1), which contains some irregular pigment-cells, is apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, similar to that of the periosteum, with which it becomes continuous at the parts where the two structures are m con- tact. It is especially developed at the ends of the oval section, whence well-marked bands of fibrous tissue pass to the periosteum (fig. 122, 7). More delicate bands of fibrous tissue traverse the perilymph to become connected with the periosteum of the opposite wall of the canal (fig. 121, 2). Both along these bands and also more directly from the contiguous periosteum, numerous small blood-vessels pass into the