65 STRUCTURE OF THE LENS. the fully-formed lens the nuclei have disappeared from the fibres which form the more internal parts of the lens, and only remain in the more superficial layers. Fig. 76. — Section through the margin of the lens, SHOWING THE TRANSITION OF THE EPITHELIUM INTO THE LENS-FIBRES (Bilblichin). Here they are found, not quite in the middle of each fibre, but slightly nearer the anterior end, their situation nearly corresponding in adjacent fibres, and they form by their juxtaposition the so-called " nuclear zone " around the lens. The superficial fibres further differ from the more deeply seated ones in being softer and larger, and in possessing a plain, unserrated margin. The extremities of all the fibres are softer and more readily acted on by reagents than the middle parts, and the axial or more internal part of a fibre more so than the external, but the transi- tion is gradual from one to the other, and there is no definite membrane enclosing each fibre. The lens-fibres when cut across are seen to be six-sided prisms (fig. 75 b). By reason of this shape they fit very exactly the one to the other with but little interfibrillar cementing substance between. This is met with in rather larger quantity in the intersecting planes between the ends of the fibres. Thin and Ewart have shown that with certain methods of treatment the superficial lens-fibres show indications of being- composed of a number of regular segments separated by sharply marked lines of inter- segmental substance (Journal of Anatomy, 1876). The capsule of the lens is a transparent structureless membrane ; somewhat brittle and elastic in character, and when ruptured the edges roll outwards. The fore part of the capsule, from about 2*5 mm. from the circumference, where the anterior part of the suspensory liga- ment joins it, is much thicker than the back : at the posterior pole of the lens the capsule is very thin indeed. In the adult, it, like the lens itself, is entirely non-vascular, but in the foetus there is a network of vessels in the superficial part of the capsule, supplied by the terminal branch of the central artery of the retina, which passes from the optic papilla through the canal of Stilling in the vitreous humour to reach the back of the capsule, where it divides into radiating branches a fine network, these turn round the margin of the lens and extend forwards to become continuous with the vessels in the pupillary membrane and iris (fig. 42, p. 34). VuL. III., 1>T. 3. V After forming