57 INTERCONNECTION OF RETINAL ELEMENTS. definitely to trace the course and connections of the fibres which pass from and to the several retinal elements. The most fruitful applications of Golgi s method have been made by Ramon y Cajal, following up investigations by Dogiel which were made by Ehrlich's method ; it is the account given by the first-named observer which will here in the main be followed. In the first place, it would appear that there is no direct anatomical continuity between the elements of the several layers, with the exception of some of the nerve-fibres of the first layer and the ganglionic cells immediately outside them. \s with other parts of the nervous system (see Part I. of this volume) the nerve-elements of the retina are anatomically isolated units, merely coming into connection with one another by the interlacement of their arborescent processes. These interlacements occur in two places, viz., in the two molecular layers. In the Fig. 65.—Diagram showing the mode of concatenation of the VISUAL NERVOUS ELEMENTS IN THE VERTEBRATE TYPE. outer molecular layer is found the interlacement by which the rod- and cone-elements are brought into connection with the inner granules. In the inner molecular layer there is a series of interlacements running mainly in planes parallel to the surfaces of the layer, and serving to bring the elements of the inner nuclear layers into connection with those of the gang- lionic layer. Finally, some of the nerve-fibres of the first or innermost layer ramify directly in the mole- cular layer or pass through this layer and ramify amongst the inner granules (figs. 50, 51, G-i). The retina, therefore, is essentially formed by a number of nerve-cell chains, the elements of which are arranged in three series from without in. The first of these is formed by the rod- or cone-element. One end of this element abuts against or is imbedded in a pigment-cell, the other end interlaces by the terminal arborisation of the rod- or cone-fibre within the outer molecular layer, with the peripheral arborisa- tions of the next elements. The latter are the bipolar inner granules (fig. 65, gr.i). These, by the peripheral process just mentioned, interlock with the arborisations of the rod- and cone-fibres and in some animals also send the fibres of Landolt as far as the membrana limitans externa. By their central processes they ramify within the inner molecular layer (m.i) and interlace with the peripheral processes of the ganglion-cells (//). The last-named form the third of the concatenated elements. Their peripheral processes spread out in the inner molecular layer, and are connected with the central processes of the inner granules in the manner just stated. Their central process (n) is an axis-cylinder of one of the fibres of the optic nerve, and its terminal ramification is to be found in the grey matter of the superior corpora quadrigemina, or of the lateral geniculate bodies. The functions of the other cell elements in the retina, such as the horizontal cells, which ramify in the outer molecular layer, and the amacrine-cells of Cajal, which are distributed in the inner molecular layer, are still quite obscure.