49 EODS AND CONES OF THE RETINA. superficial groovings, but the transverse markings are somewhat more evident than in the rods (figs. 52, 54). There is a delicate covering of neurokeratin investing the outer segments of both rods and cones, and this is somewhat more pronounced on the cones, so that a post-mortem separation into disks does not take place so readily as in the rods. From their behaviour to staining reagents and the readiness with which they become altered after removal from the body, it has been conjectured that the outer segment contains materials similar in chemical nature to those com- posing the myelin of the medullary sheath of nerve-fibres. In the inner segments, the proportion which the fibrillated part bears to the homogeneous basal part differs in the rods and cones. In the rods the fibrils usually occupy only the outer third of the inner segment (fig. 52), ceasing abruptly at its junction with the middle third ; in the cones, on the other hand, they occupy about the outer two-thirds of the segment, only the part nearest the membrana limitans remaining free from fibrils. The fibrils in question are for the most part straight and parallel, and strongly refracting. Sometimes, in the cones, instead of this outer part of the inner segment being fibrillated, it appears Fig. 57.—Pigmented epithelium op the human retina (Max Schultze). Highly magnified. «, cells seen from the outer surface with clear lines of intercellular substance between ; b, two cells seen in profile with fine offsets extending inwards ; c, a cell still in connection with the outer ends of the rods. homogeneous, but is nevertheless well marked oft from the inner part by its strong refractivity. This condition of a part of the inner segment of the cones is much better marked in other mammals and in the lower vertebrata, where there occurs a distinct strongly refracting body, situated in the middle or outer part of the segment, and known from its shape as the •• ellipsoid," a name which is also extended to include the fibrillated part of the cone in the human retina. In reptiles an oval body, coloured red by iodine, takes the place of the ellipsoid (Merkel). In lower vertebrata, as well as in most other mammals, the fibrils are absent from the inner segments of the rods also, a peculiar, strongly refracting, lenticular body (•' rod-ellipsoid ") being met with at their outer part, corresponding to the ellipsoid of the cones. Further, in birds, reptiles, and amphibia, in ganoid fishes and in marsupials (but not in other mammals), there is found in the extreme outer part of the inner segment of each cone a minute globular body, apparently of a fatty nature, which in some is clear and colour- Less, but in many cones is brightly coloured of a tint varying in different cones from red to green—red and yellow being the most common. Blue and violet are not met with, but by the action of iodine the colours of all become changed to blue. Sometimes the whole inner segment is found to be slightly tinted of the same colour as the " oil-globule." In birds there are two kinds of cone : in the one kind, the cone-fibre passes straight down to the outer molecular layer ; in the second kind, obliquely. In all vertebrates below mammals, double- or twin-cones are here and there met with ; these usually have, the one a straight the other an oblique cone-fibre. Numerous other differences and peculiarities are found in animals : thus in birds and reptiles the cones are more numerous than the rods ; in many reptiles lizard) only cones are met with ; while in some fishes (sharks and rays), in most nocturnal mammals, and in the owl, the cones are either altogether absent or are but few and rudi- mentary (M. Schultze). This statement has, however, been denied by W. Krause so_ far as nocturnal mammals are concerned. In the size of the elements there is also much variation : the rods being very large in amphibia, and especially long in fishes. In the frog there are three vou nr., pt. 3. E