3 THE KYELIDS. The palpebral fascia {septum orhilale) is a fibrous membrane placed beneath the orbicularis muscle, attached on the one hand to the margin of the orbit, and on the other prolonged towards the attached border of each tarsus. In the lower lid its tissue is continuous with that of the tarsus, but in the upper lid it blends with the tendon of the levator palpebrae. The membrane is thicker at the outer part of the orbit, where it forms the lateral (outer) palpebral or tarsal ligament (figs. 4, 12). The mesial (internal) palpebral ligament, to which the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum are attached (see Vol. II. p. 281), is not formed from the general palpebral fascia, but lies altogether in front of it (fig. 4). The palpebral fascia Fig. 2.—Vertical section through the upper eyelid, human (after Waldeyer). Mag- nified. a, skin ; b, orbicularis ; V, ciliary bundle ; c, involuntary muscle of eyelid ; d, conjunctiva ; e, tarsus ; /, Meibomian gland ; tj, sebaceous gland near eyelashes, with modified sweat-gland opening with it ; h, eyelashes ; i, small hairs in outer skin ; j, sweat-glands ; k, posterior tarsal glands. extends downwards from the crista lacrimalis posterior, between the osseous boundary of the nasal duct and the origin of the inferior oblique muscle, to reach the lower border of the orbit (Merkel). The palpebral fascia thus acts as a kind of fibrous septum between the cutaneous and the conjunctival parts of the eyelid at its attached border : it was therefore termed the septum or- bifale by Henle. It is perforated above the internal tarsal ligament by the termination of the ophthalmic artery, with a considerable anastomotic vein between the superior ophthalmic and the angular, and its attachment to the supra-orbital margin is interrupted in- ternal to the centre by the passage of the supraorbital nerve (in one or two pieces) with the accompanying artery. On the ocular surface of each lid are seen parallel vertical rows of what, seen through the conjunctival mucous membrane, look like yellow granules. There are twenty to thirty of these rows in the lower lid, somewhat more in the upper lid ; they are the Meibomian or tarsal glands (fig. 3). These are long sebaceous glands, imbedded in the tarsi; and they open on the free margin of the lids by minute orifices, generally one for each. The glands consist of nearly straight tubes, closed at the end, with numerous small caecal appendages projecting from the sides. Sometimes, however, they are not straight, but are bent round at the blind end, as is shown in some of those represented in fig. 3. The mouths of the tubes are lined by stratified epithelium continuous with that of the skin ; but the ducts and the glandular recesses have a lining of cubical epithelium filled with the fatty B 2