THE CHOROID COAT. 27 The inner part of the choroid coat (tunica RuyscMana s. chorio-capillaris, fio-. 29) is formed mainly by the capillaries of the choroidal vessels. From the ends of the arteries the capillaries radiate and form meshes which are closer than in almost any other texture, being especially fine at the back of the eyeball, near the yellow spot. The network reaches as far forwards as the ora serrata, where its meshes become elongated, and join those of the ciliary processes. The capillaries are embedded in a soft almost homogeneous tissue, and are stated to be enclosed within extensions of the perivascular lymph-spaces of the choroidal veins. Fig. 33. —Diagrammatic representation of the course of the vessels in the eye. Horizontal section. (Leber.) Arteries and capillaries red; teins blue. 0, entrance of optic nerve ; a, short posterior ciliary arteries ; a', branch to the optic nerve ; b, Ion" posterior ciliary arteries ; c, anterior ciliary vessels ; d, posterior conjunctival vessels ; d , anterior conjunctival vessels ; e, central vessels of the retina ; /, vessels of the inner sheath of the optic nerve ; g vessels of the outer sheath ; k, vorticose vein ; i, short posterior ciliary vein ; I, anastomosis of choroidal vessels with those of optic nerve ; m, chorio-capillaris ; n, episcleral vessels ; o, recurrent artery of the choroid ; p, circulus iridis major (in section) ; q, vessels of iris; r, vessels of ciliary process ; s, branch from ciliary muscle to vorticose vein ; t, branch from ciliary muscle to anterior ciliary vein ; u, canal of Schlemm ; v, capillary loop at margin of cornea. Fi». 34.—Vessels of the choroid, ciliary processes, and iris of a child. (Arnold.) Magnified 10 times. a, capillary network of the posterior part of the choroid, ending at b, the ora serrata ; c, arteries of the corona ciliaris, supplying the ciliary processes, d, and passing into the iris, c ; /, the capillary net- work close to the pupillary margin of the iris. The veins begin by the convergence of the choroidal capillaries in a whorl-like manner (fig. 32) to form venous tributaries, which themselves converge again in a similar manner to form the large whorled veins or venas vorticosae, by which the blood is conveyed away from the choroid coat.