Loo COMPARISON OF SKNSE-ORGANS. Lastly, the third tier of nervous elements is formed by the ganglion-cells of the retina whose peripheral dendritic processes interlace with the central processes of the inner granules and whose centrally directed processes are fibres of the nerve and have their central optic terminations in the grey matter of the general nerve-centres. The comparison of the elements of the retina with those of the other sense organs is not easy. If we compare the retina with the olfactory organ, we are at a loss to say whether we are to place the rod- and cone-cells along with the olfactory cells, as in making this com- parison is most frequently done, or whether we should not rather look upon the bipolar inner granules as the homologues of those elements. In the latter case we should be led to suppose that the nervous impulses originate in the peripheral process of the inner granules, Kig. 178.—Diagram of the arrangement of the sensory nerve-fibres IN THE OLFACTORY ORGAN AND BULB. (After Gr. RetziuS.) being there set up by a stimulation received from the rod- and cone-cells. And it is further open to us to suppose this stimulation to be a mechanical one caused by the contraction of the rod- and cone-elements under the influence of light. If on the other hand we regard the rod- and cone-elements as representing the olfactory cells, there appears to be no structure in the olfactory apparatus homologous with the tier of inner granules of the retina. A comparison of the retina with the remaining sense-organs is also easier on the assumption that the inner granules represent the actual sensory cells in which nervous impulses originate in response to stimulation set up through the rod- and cone-elements. The connections of the olfactory cells (fig. 178) more nearly resemble the primitive arrangement of sensory structures which occurs in Lumbricus, than is the case in any other of the sense organs. For here, as in the epidermis of Lumbricus, the sensory nerve-cells are at the free surface, lying between and supported by columnar epithelium cells. And the sensory nerve-fibres are a direct prolongation of the fixed ends of the olfactory cells, passing to the nerve centre and there becoming interlaced with the processes of the nerve-cells of the centre. The nature of the olfactory excitation, whether mechanical, chemical, or otherwise, is not known, but whatever it be, we must assume that its result is to set up nervous impulses within the olfactory cells, and that these impulses are then propagated along the fibres of the olfactory nerve to the olfactory bulb : where, within the olfactory glomeruli, they are somehow transmitted to the dendritic processes of the mitral cells, through the nerve-fibre processes of which they are again passed on to other parts of the brain. It will therefore be seen that all the sense-organs have this in common, viz., a bipolar sensory nerve-cell having (1) a peripheral process extending towards the surface and penetrating between more or. less modified epithelium-cells which cover that surface, and (2) a central process which is in all cases recognizable as a ner.ve-fibre and the terminal ramification of which interlaces with ramifications of nerve-cells within a nerve-centre. The chief differences occur in the greater or less special modification of the epithelium-cells between which the peripheral processes penetrate, such modification being very considerable in the visual organ, less in the auditory and gustatory organs, very slight in the olfactory organ, and absent in the case of the general integument.