r.l THE EYE. adult are somewhat variable and numerous on the surfaces (fig. 72), but in the foetal lens throughout, and towards the centre of the lens in the adult, they are three in number, diverging from each other like rays at equal angles of 120° (fig. I'd). The lines which converge to the opposite poles have an alternating position. ' Thus of those seen on the posterior surface of the foetal lens, one is directed vertically upwards, and the other two downwards and to either side, whereas those on the anterior surface are directed one directly downwards and the other two upwards and to the sides. These lines are the edges of planes or septa within the lens diverging from the axis, and receiving the ends of the lens-fibres, which here abut against one Fig. 74.—Laminated struc- ture OP THK CRYSTAL* LINK LENS, SHOWN AFTER HARDENING IN ALCOHOL (Arnold). | ]. nucleus ; 2, 2, lamellse. another. As Tweedy has pointed out, they may be seen, by the aid of the ophthalmoscope, even during life. The rays seldom meet at a point, but usually along a somewhat irregular area. Structure.—When the lens has been hardened and the capsule removed, a succession of concentric lamina; may be detached from it like the coats from an onion. They are not continuous, but separate into parts opposite the radiating lines above de- scribed (fig. 74). The laminae are composed of long, riband-shaped, microscopic fibres, 0'005mm. broad, which adhere together by their edges, the latter being often finely serrated (fig. 75, a). The serrations of adjacent fibres abut against one another so as to leave as in other epithelial Fig. 75.—Fibres of the crystalline lens. 350 Diameters. A, longitudinal view of the fibres of the lens from the ox showing the serrated edges. B, transverse section of the fibres of the lens from the human eye (from Kolliker). C, longi- tudinal view of a few of the fibres from the equatorial region of the human lens (from Henle). Most of the fibres in C are seen edgeways, and, towards 1, present the swellings and nuclei of the "nuclear zone ;" at 2, the flattened sides of two fibres arc seen. structures fine interfibrillar or intercellular channels for the passage of fluid. The lens-fibres pass in a curved direction from the intersecting planes of the anterior half of the lens to those of the posterior half, or vice versa: in this course no fibre passes from one pole to the other, but those fibres which begin near the pole or centre of one surface, terminate near the marginal part of a plane on the opposite surface, and conversely ; the intervening fibres passing to their corre- sponding places between. The arrangement will be better understood by a reference to fig. 73, where the course of the fibres in the foetal lens is diagrammaticallv indicated. The lens-fibres, as the history of their development shows, are to be looked upon as greatly elongated cells. In the young state each has a clear oval nucleus, but in