VESSELS OF THE IRIS. 38 the mammals. It is admitted, however, to be well developed in birds (where like the intraocular muscular tissue generally it is of the striped variety) and, amongst mammals, m the otter. Other writers have strenuously contended for the existence of a dilatator muscle. I have mvself obtained unmistakeable evidence of the presence of a thin layer of fibres at the back c-t the iris under the pigment-cells, having all the appearance of flat plain muscle-cells Recently physiological proof of the existence of dilatator fibres has been furnished m the cat and other animals by the experiments of Langley and Anderson. The choroidal part of the iris is often described as being bounded on its anterior and Fig. 40.—Segment of the iris, seen from the POSTERIOR SURFACE AFTER REMOVAL OF TflE UVEAL PIGMENT (Iwaiioff). a, sphincter muscle ; 6, dilatator muscle of the pupil. posterior surfaces by special layers, which have been termed the anterior and posterior limiting or hyaline layers. Of these, the anterior layer is merely the superficial part of the general stroma, having the fibres and cells somewhat more closely arranged; and what has usually been described as the posterior is probably the thin muscular sheet of the dilatator pupillte. There may, however, be a thin membrane corresponding to the membrane of Bruch of choroid immediately underlying the epithelium of the pars retinalis. Vessels of the iris (figs. 30 to 34, and fig. 41).—The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the sclerotic a little in advance, and one on each side, of the optic nerve. Having gained the interval between the sclerotic and choroid coats, they extend horizontally forwards covered by loose connective tissue to the ciliary muscle. In this course they lie nearly in the horizontal plane of the axis of the eye-ball, the outer vessel being a little above, and the inner one a little below the level of that line. A little behind the attached margin of the iris, each vessel Fig. 41.—Front view of the blood-vessels of the choroid coat and iris from before. (Arnold.) Magnified 2\ times. a, choroid ; B, iris ; c, ciliary muscle ; 1, 1, long ciliary arteries ; 2, 2, five of the anterior ciliary arteries ramifying at the outer margin of the iris ; 3, loop of com- munication between one of the anterior and one of the long ciliary arteries ; 4, internal circle and network of the vessels of the iris ; 5, external radial network of vessels. divides into an upper and a lower branch, and these, anastomosing with the corresponding vessels on the opposite side and with the an- terior ciliary, form a vascular ring {circulus major, fig. 33, p, fig. 41,3) in this situation. From this circle small branches arise to supply the ciliary muscle ; whilst others converge towards the pupil, and there, freely com- municating by transverse offsets from one to another, form a second circle of anastomosis (circulus minor), from which capillaries are continued inwardly and end in small veins. The anterior ciliary arteries (fig. 33, c, fig. 41, 2, 2), five or six in number, but smaller than the vessels just described, are supplied from the muscluar and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic artery, and pierce the sclerotic about VOL. III., PT. 3. D