79 EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. elands • and in the thick subdermic tissue are small oval convoluted tubular glands S a town k v colour, agreeing in form and structure with the sweat glands, but fu part or entirely, and in sufficient number at some parts especially where carti Zeis deficient, to form an almost complete layer in the subcutaneous tissue The cmimen or ear-wax is secreted by these glands {glanduU cerwmnosce), , d their fine ducts may be seen to perforate the skin of the meatus close to or fcto 1 mo 'hs of the hair follicles. According to Schwalbe the fatty part of he ear-wax is formed by the sebaceous glands. This may be partly the case but the secretion of the ceruminous glands is certainly also of a fatty nature (fig. 188). _ Vessels and nerves.-The external auditory meatus is supplied with arteries from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temporal arteries. The principal Fig. 88.—Section op skin of AUDITORY MEATUS, INCLUDING TWO CERUMINOUS GLANDS. (G riiber.) root of hair hair sebaceous hair follicle branches of the arteries course along the upper and back wall of the canal. The veins and lymphatics take the same course on leaving the meatus as do the corre- sponding vessels of the pinna. The nerves are derived from the auriculo- root-sheath temporal branch of the fifth and the auricular branch of the vagus. The latter sup- plies the skin of the osseous part of the canal and that which covers the lower part of the tympanic membrane. State in the infant. —The auditory passage is only in part formed of bone and cartilage in the infant. The osseous part is formed at birth by a small ring of bone (tympanic bone) which is deficient antero- superiorly, where it is completed by uniting with the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and this part of the temporal overhangs the meatus and con- stitutes the chief part of its superior boundary. The floor is mainly formed by fibrous tissue which unites the tympanic ring of bone with the fibro-cartilage of the pinna and external part of the meatus. This is the fibrous tympanic plate of Symington, and into it the tympanic bone gradually grows after birth. This growth takes place chiefly from two points (Zuckerkandl) outwards into the fibrous plate in question and usually in such a manner that a gap is left for some time in the antero-inferior part of the bony meatus which sometimes persists throughout life. The membrane of the drum is more inclined away from the vertical in the foetus and new-born infant than in the adult, being in fact in the same plane as the roof and overlying the fibrous floor of the inner part of the ceruminous glands