THE CORNEA. 17 the episcleral vessels derived from the anterior ciliary. Veins corresponding with the arteries run in and beneath the conjunctiva, and there is a well-marked episcleral plexus of veins behind the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, l ie veins convey their blood to the anterior ciliary and the vorticose veins of the choroid. The sclerotic receives fibres from the ciliary nerves, but it is not certainly known how they terminate. Hannover described the sclerotic as being: traversed in its thickness, opposite the fovea cen- tralis of the retina, by a strand of fibrous tissue, which unites the lamina; as it passes through them Cfuniotdm sclera-). According to Schwalbe the strand thus described is merely connec- tive tissue which accompanies the most lateral group of posterior ciliary arteries as they pierce the sclerotic. THE CORNEA. The cornea, the transparent fore part of the external coat, admits light into the interior of the eyeball. It is nearly circular in shape, but is slightly wider in the trans- verse than in the vertical direction (about 12 mm. and 11 mm. diameter respectively); its arc extends to about one-sixth of the circumference of the whole globe. The cornea has a curvature of a smaller radius than the sclerotic : the degree of its curve varies, however, in different persons, and at different periods of life m the same person, being more prominent in youth than in advanced age. It is also normally a trifle more curved in the vertical than in the horizontal plane. Its thickness is in o-eneral nearly the same throughout, viz., 0-8 mm., excepting towards the periphery, where it becomes somewhat thicker (1-1 mm.) The posterior concave surface exceeds slightly in extent the anterior or convex, in consequence of the latter being encroached on by the superficial part of the sclerotic ; the cornea being- overlapped by the sclerotic like a watch-glass by the edge of the groove into which it is received (see fig. 15) ; the tissues of the two are, however, in complete continuity. Around the junction a slight groove is apparent in the surface of the globe (sulcus sclerce). The tissue of the cornea readily imbibes water and becomes opaque after death. STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. The cornea mav be described as consisting of three parts—a stratified epithelium in front (fig. 19, 1) continuous with the epithelium of the conjunctiva ; a middle part, substantia propria, or cornea proper (3), continuous with the sclerotic, com- posed of modified connective tissue ; and a homogeneous elastic lamella (1), bounding it behind, and itself covered with a simple layer of endothelium cells (5). Epithelium of the Cornea.—The epithelium covering the front of the cornea is of the stratified kind, the cells being in man six to eight deep (fig. 18). The lowermost cells (c) are columnar, with a flattened base, where they rest on the sub- stantia propria, and a rounded apex, upon which a cell of the next layer fits. To the base of each columnar cell is attached a broad, flattened, strongly refracting process, which projects under one of the neighbouring cells (not shown in the figure). Above these columnar cells are two or three layers of polygonal cells, some of the deeper of which (the fingered cells of Cleland) have projections from their under surface which fit between the cells below. These polygonal cells (p) have well-marked denticulations, which join one another across the intercellular spaces which separate the cells. Quite superficially is a stratum of flattened scaly epithelium cells, which retain their nuclei. The proper substance of the cornea is composed, as before said, of a modified form of connective tissue, all the constituents of which have very nearly the same VOL. III., PT. 3. 0