ORGAN OF CORTT. 123 The tectorial membrane is the last special structure which remains to be described in connection with the organ of Oorti. It arises, as before stated, on the limbus, not far from the line of origin of Eeissner's membrane (fig. 131). It overlies the projecting teeth at the edge of the limbus, and also the epithelium between them: all this part of the membrane is thin and delicate, imperceptibly Fig. 140.—View of a small part of the organ OF CORTI OF THE HUMAN COCHLEA FROM ABOVE, SHOWING THE LAMINA RETICULARIS. Much magnified. (G\ Retzius.) i.h, inner Lair-cells, the liairlets being seen in section ; i.r.h, heads of inner rods ; o.r.h, heads of outer rods ; i.r.p, " olecranon " processes of inner rods ; ph.pr, phalangeal processes of outer rods ; ph\ pli2, ph3, first, second, and third series of phalanges; A1, h\ A3, A4, first, second, third, and fourth series of outer hair-cells : //, cells of Hensen. Fig. 141.—Surface view of a small piece of THE MEMBRANA TECTORIA OF THE HUMAN cochlea. (Gr. Retzius.) l.z., limbus-zone of the membrane, showing markings caused by the cells covering the limbus ; o.z., o.z., outer zone, showing a well-marked fibrous structure ; H., stria described by Hensen in the middle of the outer zone ; /., reticular free border. shading off towards the inner edge of attachment. As the membrane projects over the crest of the limbus, it swells out below into a pad-like projection (fig. 136) which covers in and partly fills up the spiral groove, and rests below upon the rods of Corti and contiguous structures. Towards its external edge the membrane again thins out, and overlies the outer hair-cell region as a delicate film presenting a somewhat reticular appearance, as if impressed by or moulded on the subjacent structures. The thickened part of the membrane is distinctly fibrous in appearance (the fibrillation extending obliquely from within out) (fig. 141), and after immersion in weak solutions of omic acid, chromic acid, or bichromate of potash, it appears to possess considerable toughness and elasticity. From its position the hairlets borne by the hair-cells must necessarily be in contact with the under surface of this