THE EYE. secretion. According- to Colosanti the glands have a basement membrane, and a muscular layer outside this : he further describes a network of fine nervous fibrils amongst the epithelium-cells. A layer of* unstriped muscular tissue is contained in each eyelid (H. Miiller) : that of the upper (fig. 2, c ; fig. L8) arising from the under surface of the levator palpebrse, that of the lower from the neighbourhood of the inferior oblique muscle, and each being inserted near the attached margin of the tarsus. According to Eenle, some of the fibres have a transverse course.1 The eyelashes {cilia) are strong short curved hairs, arranged in two or more rows along the margin of* the lids, at the line of union between the skin and the conjunctiva. The upper lashes are more numerous and longer than the lower ; they Fig. 3.-,—Meibomian glands op the left eyelids AS SEEN FIIOM BEHIND. a, a, palpebral conjunctiva ; 1, lachrymal gland ; 2, openings of seven or eight of its ducts ; 3, upper and lower puncta lacrimalia ; 6, 6, ends of the upper and lower Meibomian glands, of which the openings are indicated along the margins of the eyelids. are curved in an opposite direction in the two lids : so that their convexities are directed towards one another. The extremity of the lid, in which the follicles of the eyelashes are set, is composed of a dense fibrous tissue, somewhat similar in nature to that of the tarsus, with which it is, in fact, in'.the upper lid continuous (Merkel). The hair follicles are of some length (1-5 to 2-5 mm.), penetrating obliquely from the outer edge of the lid nearly to the tarsi. Near the inner canthus the hairs are weaker and more scattered. Immediately within the eyelashes, between them and the ciliary bundle of the orbicularis, is a row of large modified sweat glands (glands of Moll), which sometimes open into the mouths of large sebaceous glands (fig. 2, g) (not the Meibomian). The conjunctiva consists of the palpebral part (conjunctiva palpebrarum), with which may be included the plica semilunaris and caruncula, and of the ocular part (conjunctiva bulbi), in which may be distinguished the sclerotic and corneal portions : each of these parts has distinctive characters. The epithelium of the conjunctiva varies somewhat at different parts ; that of the eyelids is columnar, with smaller cells between the fixed ends of the columnar cells. Near the skin and cornea it shades off into the stratified epithelium which covers these parts. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva is thicker and more vascular than the rest of the membrane, and is fieely supplied with nerves. Through the puncta lacrimalia and canaliculi, it is continuous with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac. Although closely united to the tarsi, it exhibits, nevertheless, numerous small creases or folds, which are visible with a lens. A layer of small racemose or tubulo-racemose glands (posterior tarsal) is found on the ocular surface of the lids, immediately under the conjunctiva, and beyond the blind ends of the _ 1 It may be mentioned in this place that H. Miiller also described a layer of unstriped muscle bridging over the sphenomaxillary fissure, corresponding to a more largely developed layer found in the extensive aponeurotic part of the orbital wall of various mammalia (H. Miiller, Wurzburg Sitzun^l. , 1858 ; Turner, Nat. Plist. Rev., 1862). These involuntary muscles receive their nerves through the cervical sympathetic ; the spheno-maxillary muscle, when contracted, causes the globe of the eye to project more from the orbit.