77 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE PINNA. aW 2*5 mm lon<* but the superior and posterior boundaries are considerably IrL thau^he^uferior and anterior. If the part of the conch a winch is bounded anteriorly and externally by the tragus is reckoned in with the canal, Fig. 85.—Diagrammatic view from BEFORE OF THE PAHTS COMPOSING THE ORGAN OF HEARING OF THE leftside. (After Arnold.) The temporal bone of the left side, with the accompanying soft parts, has been detached from the head, and a section has been carried obliquely through it so as to remove the front of the meatus externus, half the tympanic membrane, and the upper and anterior wall of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. The meatus internus has also been opened, and the bony labyrinth exposed by the removal of the surrounding parts of the petrous bone. 1, the pinna and lobe; 2 to 2', meatus externus ; 2', membrana tympani; 3, cavity of the tympanum; above 3, the chain of small bones ; 3', opening into the mastoid cells: 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, meatus internus, containing the facial (uppermost) and auditory nerves; 6. placed on'the vestibule of the labyrinth above the fenestra ovalis • a apex of the petrous bone ; 6, internal carotid artery ; c, styloid process ; d, facial neive issuing from the stylo-inastoid foramen ; e, mastoid process ; /, squamous part of the bone. its length must be given as considerably more (35 mm ). In its inward course it is inclined at first somewhat forwards and very slightly ascends (external portion): it then turns pretty sharply backwards and is nearly horizontal (middle portion), and fossa scaphoidea fossa intercruralis concha proper {upper part) impression of membrana — jlaccida bend of meatus concha proper {lower part} Fig. 86.—Cast of the external auditory meatus (Bezold.) is finally directed slightly forwards and decidedly downwards (internal portion) (fig. 85). The calibre of the passage is smallest in the osseous part of the canal a few millimeters from the membrana tympani : it is also somewhat contracted near the end of the cartilaginous portion. Its form and dimensions have been studied by v. Bezold, chiefly by means of casts of the cavity : the results of the transverse