102 THE EAR. it winds. It is partially divided along its whole extent by a spiral lamina projecting into it from the modiolus. From this osseous spiral lamina membranous structures are m the recent condition stretched across to the outer wall of the tube and thus completely separate two passages or scale, one on each side of the spiral lamina, which communicate one with the other only by a small opening, named hehcotrema, placed at the apex of the cochlea. CufaUt- ! Hamulus Tympanic cauiiy Lam.. spircUls f&iestrarovaiis Aperture leading into / ' 'scala tympani — - fossa./lemCepherico. fossa. cockUariG ■Ext. semZc. catvajL rPost.semicccutcU, - fossa. hemUtflifiUccL. Lam., spiralis Scala. tympani ScaXa t/cstiiuii. Aq. </eat6t>uXi, Fig. 111.—The cochlea and vestibule exposed by removing the roof of the bony labyrinth WITH THE SAW, SO AS TO VIEW THE PARTS FROM ABOVE. Magnified. (Test.lt.) That the cochlea is justly to be considered as an elongated tube, coiled spirally on the X IS -iU^ed+by the simple pouch-like form of the rudimentary cochlea dbi^S (fig. 112) as well as by the history of its development. The spiral osseous canal is about 33mm. lon»-, and about 2mm. iu diameter at the commencement, where it is widest. From this point the canal makes nearly 2* turns round the central pillar (from left to right in the right ear, and in the oppose direction m the left ear, supposing the cochlea viewed from the base), and ends by au arched and closed extremity called the cupola, which forms the summit of the Fig. 112.—Osseous Labyrinth of the barn owl (strix flammea). (From Breschet.) £ 1, semicircular canals ; 2, vestibule ; 3, cochlea in the form of a short straight lube. ° cochlea. The first coil, having by far the most extensive curve and being the largest portion of the tube, nearly hides the second from view ; and, bulging somewhat into the tympanum, forms the round elevation on the inner wall of that cavity called the promontory. The last half-coil is somewhat flattened from above down and its extremity is partly embedded in the coil next below it. The modiolus (columella cochlea?), the central pillar or axis of the cochlea is much the thickest within the first turn of the tube, rapidly diminishing in size in the succeeding parts. Its central part is spongy as far as the last half-coil, and is pierced by many small canals, for the passage of the nerves and vessels to the spiral lamina ; one of these canals, larger than the rest, central canal of the modiolus, runs from the base through the centre of the modiolus (fig. 114). The base of the modiolus appears in the internal auditory meatus as the fossula cochleae containing the foramen centrale and the tractus spiralis foraminulentus : the latter transmit-