THE NASA.L FOSSAE. J 37 There may also be found a third parallel fissure above the second fissure, effecting a further separation of the upper concha, so that in these cases there are four distinct conchas on the ethmoid bone alone, viz., suprema, superior, media, and inferior (besides the lowermost or maxillary concha). This condition represents one which is met with m macrosmatic mam- mals in a much more developed form. The most common condition, however, in man, accordino- to Zuckerkandl, is that with three ethmoidal conchas, but the middle one, when present is frequently hidden beneath the superior concha, and thus often escapes observation. Hence the usual description of the ethmoidal conchas as superior and inferior only, the inferior being- the one which is spoken of above as the middle turbinal. 16 AS Fig. 156.—Coronal section op the nasai fossje seen fkom behind. The section passes THROUGH THE LAST MOLAR TEETH. (Testut.) 1, septum nasi ; 2, superior turbinal ; 3, middle turbinal ; 4, inferior turbinal ; 5, posterior ethmoidal cells opening at 5' (on the right side) into the superior meatus ; 6, maxillary antrum, opening at 6' into the middle meatus : the head of the arrow is in the hiatus semilunaris ; 7, bulla ethmoidalis ; 8, frontal sinuses ; 9, crista galli; 9', falx cerebri ; 10, cerebral hemispheres ; 11, right orbit containing the globe of the eye (surrounded by orbital fat) and its muscles ; 12, great wing of si.henoid ; 13, spheno-maxillary fissure ; 14, fatty tissue of zygomatic fossa ; 15, buccinator muscle ; 16, last molar tooth ; 17, vault of palate ; 18, zygoma ; 19, left orbit. Besides the ethmoidal fissures which separate the conchas from one another, the superior turbinal is often marked by a distinct groove at its posterior part, which leads backwards into the spheno-ethmoidal recess (fig. 154). The superior and middle turbinals are conjoined in front and may be said to spring from the cribriform plate, through which pass the branches of the olfactory nerve. Their free edges slope downwards and backwards, that of the middle turbinal gradually becoming nearly horizontal. The lower margins of both, covered by thick raucous membrane, are free and overhang respectively the superior and middle meatus ; the middle turbinal has also a nearly vertical free border anteriorly, which, together with the adjoining part of the concha, forms an operculum covering the corresponding part of the middle meatus, and concealing