104 THE EAH. structure is more open and spongy, and contains numerous small canals for vessels and nerves, continuous with, but running at right angles to, the canals in the modiolus. Winding round the modiolus, in the base of the spiral lamina, is a small canal, named the spiral canal of the modiolus. scala tympani (fig. Ill . fig. L13, 8), the portion of the tube on the basal side ot the lamina spiralis, commences at the fenestra rotunda, where in tlx. recent state it is separated from the tympanum by the secondary membrane of the tympa- num. Close to its commencement is the orifice of a small canal (aqueduclus cochlea) which extends downwards and inwards to the lower border of the petrous bone where it opens into a depression immediately in front of the jugular fossa li transmits a small vein which joins the inferior petrosal sinus. There is also a communication along the aqueductus cochlea3 between the subarachnoid space and the perilymph in the scala tympani. The scala vestibuli (figs. 111, 113, 4) j6 rather narrower than the scala tympani in the first turn of the cochlea,' but in the succeeding turns is larger ; it commences from the cavity of the vestibule, and com- municates, as already described, with the scala tympani at the apex of the modiolus. THE MEMBBANOUS LABYBINTH. Within the osseous labyrinth, and separated in most parts from its lining mem- brane by the perilymph, membranous structures exist in which the ultimate ramifi- cations of the auditory nerve are spread. In the vestibule and semicircular canals Fig. 115.—Plan op the right membranous labyrinth VIEWED FROM THE MESIAL ASPECT. (E. A. S.) u, utricle, with its macula and the three semicircular canals with their ampullae ; s, saccule; s.e. saccus endo- lymphaticus ; c.r. canalis reuniens; c.c. canal of the cochlea. R these structures have a general resemblance in form to the complicated cavity in which they are contained. They do not, however, lie loose within the osseous cavity, but along the convex border of the canals, and at the places of entrance of the nerves into the vestibule and ampullae are fixed to its wall. In the cochlea the membranous structures complete the septum between the scalae already mentioned, and enclose an intermediate passage, the membranous canal of the cochlea. As before stated, the liquid contained within the membranous labyrinth is distinguished as endolymph. The cavity which contains the perilymph communicates through the sheath of the auditory nerve with both the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. Within the osseous vestibule are two membranous sacs, the one of which, termed the utricle, is connected with the semicircular canals, whilst the other, the saccule, is connected with the cochlea. These two sacs although in close contact do not open directly into one another although they are in indirect communication, in a manner presently to be explained. The larger of the two sacs, the common sinus or utricle (fig. 115, u ; fig. 116), is of a very irregular oblong form, measuring in all 6 mm. to 7 mm. in length, and averaging 5 mm. in breadth, slightly flattened from behind forwards. It is lodged in the upper and back part of the vestibule, occupying the fovea hemi-elliptica and the space immediately below this. The part which lies in the fovea is termed the recessus ulriculi (fig. 116, rec. utr.). This forms a distinct blind forward projection, some 3 mm. in length, into which, opposite the crista vestibuli, several small branches of the auditory nerve enter from the foramina in the bone ; and here the