43 INNER NUCLEAR LAYER OF THE RETINA. fibrils. It is regarded as the axis-cylinder process of the cell, and extends usually to the inner part of the internal molecular layer, within which it ends in a terminal ramification of varicose fibrils which is frequently in close proximity to the outer surface of one or more of the ganglion-cells of the layer. The outer prolongation or process of the bipolar cell is not varicose, is usually thicker than the inner one, and in some cases passes undivided into the next layer, in others divides before reaching it. Having arrived at the outer molecular layer it breaks up into an arborisation within this layer, which is interlaced with arborisations of fibres belonging to the horizontal cells presently to be described, and with the termina- tions "of the rod- and cone-elements of the bacillary layer. It has been shown by R. y Cajal that the bipolars are of at least two kinds, distinguishable by the character of the terminal arborescence of the outwardly-directed protoplasmic Fig. 50.—Elements op the ketina of mammals displayed by the chromate op silver method of Golgi. (Cajal.) I. Section of the dog's retina, a, cone-fibre ; b, rod-fibre and nucleus ; c, d, bipolar cells (inner granules) with vertical ramification of outer processes destined to receive the enlarged ends of rod-fibres ; e, bipolars with flattened ramification for ends of cone-fibres ; /, giant bipolar with flattened ramifi- cation ; g, cell sending a neuron or nerve-fibre process to the outer molecular layer; h, amacrine cell with diffuse arborisation in inner molecular layer ; i, nerve fibrils passing to outer molecular layer ; j, centrifugal fibres passing from nerve-fibre layer to inner molecular layer ; m, nerve-fibril passing into inner molecular layer ; n, ganglionic cells. _ II. Horizontal or basal cells of the outer molecular layer of the dog s retina. A, small cell witn dense arborisation ; B, large cell, lying in inner nuclear layer but with its processes branching in the outer molecular ; a, its horizontal neuron ; C, medium sized cell of the same character. III. Cells from the retina of the ox. a, rod-bipolars with vertical arborization ; b, c, d, e, cone- bipolars with horizontal ramification ; /, g, bipolars with very extensive horizontal ramification of outer process ; h, cells lying on the outer surface of the outer molecular layer, and ramifying within it; i, j, m, amacrine cells within the substance of the inner molecular layer. IV. Neurons or axis-cylinder processes belonging to horizontal cells of the outer molecular layer, one of them, b, ending in a close ramification at a. _ V. Nervous elements connected with the inner molecular layer of the ox s retina. A, amacrine cell, with long processes ramifying in the outermost stratum ; B, large amacrine with thick processes ramifying in second stratum ; C, flattened amacrine with long and fine processes ramifying mainly m the firsthand fifth strata: D, amacrine with radiating tuft of fibrils destined for third stratum ; E, large amacrine, with processes ramifying in fifth stratum ; F, small amacrine, branching in second stratum ; G, H, other amacrines destined for fourth stratum ; a, small ganglion-cell sending its processes to fourth stratum ; 6, a small ganglion-cell with ramifications in three strata ; c, a small cell ramifying ultimately iu first stratum ; d, a medium sized gangliou-cell ramifying in fourth stratum ; e, giant cell, branching in third stratum ; /, a bi-stratified cell ramifying in second and fourth strata. VI. Amacrines and ganglion-cells from the dog. A, amacrine with radiating tuft; B, large amacrine passing to third stratum ; C and Gr, small amacrines with radiations in second stratum ; F, small amacrine passing to third stratum ; D, amacrine with diffuse arborisation ; E, amacrine belonging to fourth stratum ; a, d, e, g, small ganglion-cells, ramifying in various strata ; 6, /, large ganglion-cells, showing two different characters of arborisation ; t, bi-stratified cell. VII. Amacrines and ganglion-cells from the dog. A, B, C, small amacrines ramifying in middle ot molecular layer; b, d, g, h, i, small ganglion-cells showing various kinds of arborisation ; /, a larger cell, similar in character to </, but with longer branch ; a, c, e, giaut cells with thick branches ramifying in the first, second, and third layers ; L, L, ends of bipolars branching over ganglion-cells. process, and by the position in the internal molecular layer in which the axis- cylinder process terminates. In one kind this arborescence is composed of a dendritic tuft of vertical fibrils, somewhat varicose and enclosing amongst them the end-knobs of several (3 to 20) of the rod-fibres of the bacillary layer ; and the axis- cylinder process ends in a varicose ramification over a body of a cell of the ganglionic layer. These may be termed, therefore, the rod-Mpolars, or bipolars with vertical arborescence (fig. 50, I., c ; in., a). In the other kind (cone-bipolars) this terminal arborescence is horizontal (fig. 50, I., e ; in., b, c, d, e), and abuts against or interlaces with the ramified foot of one or more cone-fibres, and the axis-cylinder process usually extends to a less depth of the internal molecular layer, and is not constant in position as is that of the rod-bipolar ; the axis-cylinder process of either kind may give off short collaterals in traversing the inner molecular layer. Some of