51 THE EYE. The yellow tint of the macula is absent at the centre of the fovea : it is said to be due to a diffuse colouring matter which is seated in the interstices between the elements of the four or five inner layers. The yellow colour of this part of the retina is peculiar to Primates : in man it develops after birth. A corresponding area is found however in all mammals, characterized by a lack of dark pigment in the pigmentary layer, while in some mammals (Chievitz) as well as in birds, reptiles and amphibia (H. Midler, Hulke, W. Krause), a lovea has been described within such a central area. In some birds two foveas are present, one being near the ora serrata : in some cases several fovea; are found (Chievitz). The central area is always characterized by containing relatively smaller visual cells. The occurrence and relative development of the central area and fovea in vertebrata has been specially investigated by Chievitz (see Bibliography). Structure of the ora serrata and pars ciliaris retina.—At the line of the ora serrata the numerous complex layers of the retina disappear, and in front of it, the retina is represented merely by a single stratum of elongated columnar cells with the pigmentary layer external to it (pars ciliaris retinas). The transition is, in man, somewhat abrupt, all the changes being met within a zone of about <vl mm. in breadth. The layer of rods and cones (fig. 61, g) first disappears as a complete layer, the cones continuing rather further than the rods, but being imperfectly formed and lacking the outer segments ; the nerve- and ganglionic layers, which were already very thin and incomplete, cease altogether at the ora," the inner Fig. 61.—Vertical section through the choroid and retina near the pra serrata (Kblliker). CO DIAMETERS. a, hyaloid membrane ; b, limiting membrane and nervous layer of the retina • c, ganglionic and inner molecular layers with closely set Mtillerian fibres ; d, inner nuclear ; e, outer molecular ■ / outer nuclear layer ; g, columnar layer ; h, pigment ; i, k, choroid ; I, part of one of the ciliary processes ■ m, pars ciliaris of the retina. (The recess show at a' is not constant.) Fig. 62.—A SMALL PORTION OF THE CILIARY PART OF THE RETINA (Kblliker). 350 DIAMETERS. A, human ; B, from the ox ; 1, pigment-cells ; 2, columnar cells. molecular layer (c), which is now largely occupied by Mtillerian fibres, retains its thickness up to a certain point, and then abruptly terminates (a1), as do also the nuclear layers, outer and inner (/, d,). The columnar cells of the pars ciliaris. which appear directly to continue these layers of the retina, are at first of con- siderable length, but become gradually shorter anteriorly ; they are finely striated (fig. 62, 2), and eacfbcell has a clear oval nucleus at the outer part of the cell, near the pigmentary layer. The inner end may be rounded, pointed, square, or' even branched ; the sides of the cells, too, are sometimes uneven. * This double layer of cells is continued as before said over and between the ciliary processes to join the uveal layer upon the posterior surface of the iris (pars iridica retina). On the ciliary processes, and especially their anterior aspect, glandular depressions of the epithelium occur which may be solid or may be provided with a