97 VESSELS AND NERVES OF TYMPANUM. In the foetus the mucous membrane of the tympanum consists of a swollen gela- tinous embryonic tissue which fills the cavity, leaving only an irregular cleft between its folds Towards the end of intrauterine life the membrane becomes gradually thinner ond less gelatinous and the cleft enlarges, fluid accumulating within it. \f ter birth this fluid becomes replaced by air, and the mucous membrane speedily acquires the thin fibrous character which it exhibits throughout life. superior ligament of malleus head of malleus superior external pouch s external ligament of malleus -| inferior external pouch (of Prussak) processus brevis mallei external auditory meatus J tendon of tensor tijmpani manubrium mallei end of manubrium Fig. 104.— Section through the malleus and membrana timpani, showing some op the pouches or recesses of the tympanio CAVITY. (After Merkel.) Vessels and nerves of tympanum.—The arteries of the tympanum, though very small, are numerous, and are derived from branches of the external carotid, and from the internal carotid. The fore part of the cavity is supplied chiefly by the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which enters by the fissure of Glaser. The back part of the cavity including the mastoid cells, receives its arteries from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, which is conducted to the tympanum by the aque- duct of Fallopius. These two arteries form by their anastomosis a vascular circle round the margin of the membrana tympani. The smaller arteries of the tympanum are, the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii, and branches through the-bone from the internal carotid artery, furnished from that vessel whilst in the carotid canal. The veins of the tympanum empty their contents into the superior petrosal sinus and the temporo-maxillary vein. Nervps.—The tympanum contains numerous nerves ; for, besides those which supply the parts of the middle ear itself, there are several which serve merely to connect nerves of different origin. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied by filaments from the tympanic plexus, which occupies the shallow grooves on the inner wall of the cavity, particularly on the surface of the promontory (fig. 93). This plexus (fig. 105) is formed by 1st, the nerve of Jacobson from the petrosal ganglion of the glossopharyngeal; 2nd, the small deep petrosal nerve, a filament connecting the nerve of Jacobson with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 3rd, a branch which joins the great superficial petrosal nerve; 4th and lastly, the small superficial petrosal nerve, passing to the otic ganglion. Numerous ganglion cells are found both in the uniting cords and also at the points of junction of the plexus. vol. in., pt. 3. H