THE NOSE. The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell. It has also other functions to fulfil:—for, communicating freely with the cavities of the mouth and lungs, it is concerned in respiration, voice, and taste ; and by means of its muscles it assists in expression. The nose forms a prominence composed of bone and hyaline cartilage with certain muscles, and a general covering of integument. At its lower extremity or base the nostrils (anterior nares) open downwards. Its upper end is the root, the rounded or flattened ridge along its middle is termed the dorsum, and this ends below in the point of the nose. The upper or bony part of the dorsum is often spoken of as the bridge; it frequently forms an angle with the cartilaginous part (aquiline type). The root springs from below the glabella of the frontal bone, with which it usually forms a more or less marked angle, so that the nose appears to spring from a well-marked groove : if this groove is absent, and the line of the dorsum is continuous with the plane of the forehead, the Grecian type of nose is produced. The sides of the nose, which form an open angle (naso-facial angh) with the general anterior surface of the face, diverge from the dorsum at an increasing angle as we trace them down from the root; the nose is therefore broadest below at the nostrils. This lowest part of the lateral wall is slightly bulged outwards, and is separated from the rest by a slight groove ; it is known as the ala of the nose, and is mobile, its form being capable of alteration by the action of certain muscles, which thereby dilate or contract the nostrils. A median parti- tion (sep/um nasi) divides the interior of the nose into two approximately equal parts, the right and left nasal fossa,. These open above and behind into the pharynx by the posterior nares (choanse), and below on to the exterior by the anterior nares. The septum is composed of bone and cartilage in the greater part of its extent, but at its lower end it is formed only of integument and connective tissue (septum mobile, or columna nasi). This part of the septum forms the mesial boundary or separation between the anterior nares ; in the rest of their extent they are bounded by the curved free margin of the ake. From the development and complexity of the nasal fossa? and olfactory lobes of the cerebrum mammals are divided by Turner into the three subdivisions of tnacrosmatics, including rodents, carnivora, marsupials, and most mammals; viidromatios, including man and most primates, monotremes, and some cetacea ; and anosmatics, including certain cetacea {e.g., porpoise). t The nasal fossse communicate with hollows in the neighbouring bones (ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and superior maxillary). The skin of the nose is studded, particularly in the grooves of the alse or outer walls of the nostrils, with numerous small openings, which lead to sebaceous follicles. Within the margin of the nostrils are a number of short, stiff, and slightly curved hairs—vibrissa—which grow from the inner surface of the alas and septum nasi. As is well known the nose presents great variety in size and shape in different individuals. Into most of these it is unnecessary here to enter, but there is one kind of variation which is of considerable anthropological importance, viz., the extent of lateral expansion of the anterior nares as compared with the