78 THE KALI. measurements at certain points are given in the accompanying diagram \t the inner extremity the tuhe is terminated by the membrana tympani, which" is placed obliquely being inclined downwards, forwards, and towards the median plane • and thus, as shown in fig. 85, the floor of the meatus is longer than its roof 2T ffr Diagram showing thk korji and measurements op suctions across thk external auditory mea- TUS. (Bezold.) Natural size. at commencement of cartilaginous portion ; II., near end of cartilaginous por- tion ,• ///., near beginning of osseous portion ; IV., near end of osseous portion. Structure.—The wallof the meatus is composed partly of cartilage, and partly or bone, and is lined by a prolongation of the skin. The cartilaginous part occupies somewhat less than half the length of the passage It is formed, as already mentioned, by an inflection of the deep part of the cartilage of the pmna, but the cartilage does not form a complete boundary ; the tube being- deficient at the upper and posterior part where it is completed by fibrous membrane The osseous portion is a little longer and on the whole rather narrower than the cartilaginous part. At its inner end is a narrow groove {sulcus tympanicus), which Fig. 87.-View of the lower half of the aurxcle and meatus in the left ear, divided by a nearly horizontal section (after Kiidinger). 1 posterior wall; 2, anterior wall of the cartilaginous meatus ; 3, posterior wall of the bony meatus ■ 4 to 6, membrane of the tympanum, with the handle of the malleus cut; 6, stapes to the S ofV section of the cochlea ; 7, stapedius muscle ; 8, section of facial nerve ; 9, tensor tympani muscle • 10, branches of the auditory nerve to the cochlea, saccule, and utricle, 11, tympani muscle , extends round the sides and floor of the meatus, but is deficient above ; into this the margin of the membrana tympani is inserted. The skin of the meatus is continuous with that covering the pinna, but is very thin m the osseous part, especially at the bottom of the passage. Here it adheres very closely to the periosteum, and has no hairs or glands, but is provided with vascular papilla (ridges, according to Kaufmann). At the end of the tube the skin is prolonged over the surface of the membrana tympani, forming the outer layer of that structure. Towards the outer part of the roof of the osseous portion and throughout the cartilaginous portion the skin possesses fine hairs and sebaceous