135 THE NASAL FOSSAE. The turbinals on the lateral wall of each fossa are usually described as three in number viz two on the lateral mass of the ethmoid, which are known as the superior and middle turbinals (superior and inferior ethmoidal conchy) and one the inferior turbinal, on the superior maxillary bone (maxillary concha). Jiach concha overhangs and partially separates from the general cavity of the fossa a crroove-like space, which is known as the corresponding meatus (superior, middle, or 9 - 5 4 3 2 I Fig. 154.—View op the right nasal fossa as seen in a section through the skull, taken just °* ' TO THE RIGHT OF THE SEPTUM. (E. A. S.) 1 incisor canal ; 2, bone of hard palate ; 3 and 4, parts of the mesial cms of the cartilage of the aperture- 5, anterior part of the same cartilage; 6, cartilage of the septum ; 7, groove leading to middle meatus ; 8, agger nasi; 9, frontal sinus ; 10, inferior ethmoidal concha ; 11 superior ethmoidal concha - 12, recess of upper meatus above superior concha; 13, entrance to sphenoidal sinus ; 14, pituitary fossa; 15, sphenoidal sinus; 16, inferior turbinal (maxillary concha) ; 17, rod passed into Eustachian tube ; 18, salpingopharyngeal fold : immediately behind this is the lateral recess of the pharynx, not specially indicated in the drawing ; 19, soft palate ; 20, uvula ; 21, tongue. inferior, as the case may be). The groove of the superior meatus between the superior and middle conchae is also termed the ethmoidal fissure. This meatus is relatively small, corresponding with the small size and extent of its overhanging concha : into it the posterior ethmoidal cells open, by one or two apertures (fig. 155). The middle turbinal or concha is large, and overhangs a correspondingly large middle meatus, which can only be properly seen on cutting away the concha (fig. 155). It is then found that the meatus extends under the anterior part of the turbinal into a gradually narrowing funnel-shaped diverticulum (infundibulum) which leads