THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 9 is directed inwards and slightly downwards for 6 to 7 mm. to join the lachrymal sac (fig. 11). The lower canal descends from the corresponding punctum and then takes a nearly horizontal course inwards. Both canals are smallest at the punctum, Fig. 10.—Section op the eyelids, passing along the lachrymal canals. (G-erlach.) Magnified. c, inner canthus of eye ; s.c, i.e., superior and inferior canals respectively; l.s., lachrymal sac ; orb., fibres of orbicularis muscle. and here they are a little wider at the mouth than at the hase of the papilla lacrimalis, where they only measure 0*1 mm. in diameter ; they then become enlarged and present a further enlarge- ment at the bend, where each has a marked dilatation, enlarging to 1 mm. diameter or more (fig. 10). The bend is sharper in the embryo than in later life. From this the horizontal limb passes off as a nearly cylindrical tube of about 0'6 mm. diameter, gradually narrowing to half that size. A part of the orbicularis palpebrarum (pars lacrimalis, tensor tarsi) runs parallel to the horizontal limbs, which are embraced by some of the muscular fibres, and when the orbicularis contracts the canals may be compressed by these fibres (Merkel). The canals either unite near their end, or they open separately, but close together, into a diverticulum of the nasal sac which is known as the sinus of Ifaier. licxsod, scio Fig. 11.—Section showing Zcxchri/mal canals J THE COURSE AND RELA- . j jf<i<*-C^ TIONS OF THE NASAL SAC —'-. ' '•^S^SSi^St--. - ! ((V fT*^ - AND DUCT. (E. A. S., slightly modified from Merkel.) The mucous mem- brane in the canaliculi is lined by a stratified scaly epithelium set on a corium rich in elastic fibres. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct con- stitute together the passage by which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal canals to the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal sac (fig. 9, 2 ; fig. 11), the slightly dilated upper or orbital portion of the passage, is situated at the side of the nose, near the inner canthus of the eye, and lies embedded in a deep groove in the lachrymal and superior maxillary bones, from which it is separated by a thin layer of the orbital periosteum. When distended with tears it forms a distinct swelling here at the side of the nose. It is about 15 mm. long, and about 5 or 6 mm. wide, and is sometimes narrower below where it passes into the nasal clnct. Its Insierpalpebral ligcunen£ dux. media, Concha,