144 THE NOSE. nasal cavity and lias numerous glands opening into it, is the homologue of a much more extensively developed tubular organ which opens in a similar position in many quadrupeds, and is encircled by a special curved plate of cartilage which lies below the septal cartilage on either side and is known as the cartilage of Jacobson. This is only represented in man by a narrow shred of cartilage (the vomerine cartilage of Buschke), which lies wholly below the rudimentary organ of Jacobson. In the rabbit and guinea-pig as shown by Klein, and probably in other animals in which the organ is in a well-developed condition, the epithelium which lines the inner or mesial side of the canal is much thicker than that on the outer side. It is throughout similar in structure to that lining the olfactory part of the Hchneiderian membrane. Moreover it receives considerable branches of the olfactory nerve, and in these animals is no doubt of high functional importance as an accessory to the proper organ of smell. In man the epithelium on the mesial wall of the canal is thick like the olfactory epithelium, but contains no true olfactory cells. Most of the cells are of the columnar (sustentacular) type, and although there are some more slender spindle-cells between these, probably homologous with the olfactory cells, they do not reach the surface, nor are they connected with nerve-fibres. Moreover, calcareous concretions are frequent amongst the epithelium cells, so that it is highly probable that the function of the organ in man is entirely in abeyance. In Fig. 164.—Nerve-fibres from the olfactory mdoous membrane. (Max Schultze.) Magnified between 400 and 500 diameters. From a branch of the olfactory nerve of the sheep ; at a, a, two dark-bordered or medullated fibres, from the fifth pair, associated with the pale olfactory fibres. the embryo, up to eight weeks this epithelium is relatively far better developed, but after this time it appears to undergo retrograde changes. Blood-vessels and lymphatics of the nasal fossae.—The spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery enters the cavity by the spheno-palatine foramen and divides into external branches {posterior nasal) to the meatuses and turbinals, sending offsets also to the ethmoidal cells and to the maxillary and frontal sinuses, and an internal branch (naso-palatine, artery of the septum) along the septum to the incisor foramen. The branches of the naso-palatine communicate freely with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal of the ophthalmic. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery gives small offsets to the hinder part of the inferior turbinal and meatus. The anterior ethmoidal branch of the ophtJialmic artery enters the cavity with the nasal nerve and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the fore part of the septum and outer wall. The posterior ethmoidal branch of the same artery sends small twigs to the posterior ethmoidal cells, to the roof, and to the upper part of the septum. . Lastly a branch from the superior coronary of the facial and the lateral nasal artery supply the part near the anterior nares. The several arteries anastomose freely together in the mucous membrane, and are distributed to three sets of capillaries, viz., a periosteal, glandular, and sub-epithelial.