136 THE NOSE. directly upwards into the frontal sinus, and that the lateral wall of this meatus is turther marked by a deep curvilinear depression (hiatus semilunaris, Zuckerkandl) extending from behind and below upwards and forwards towards the infundibulum Into the deepest part of this depression the anterior ethmoidal cells and the mmtilmi antrum open, often by a common orifice , sometimes the antrum has a second orifice rather lower down in the hiatus. Immediately above and behind the hiatus semi- antr. Fig. 155.—Sketch showing the position op the orifices op the air-cells and of other PASSAGES LEADING INTO THE NASAL FOSSJE (E. A. S.). The middle and inferior turbinals are cut away as much as is necessary to expose the orifices. sph ethm., -probe passed from the sphenoethmoidal recess into the sphenoidal sinus, sph.sin. : postethm. .aperturesat the posterior ethmoidal cells beneath the superior ethmoidal concha ; mid.ethm apertures of the middle ethmoidal cells beneath the midddle (inferior ethmoidal) concha, and just above the ethmoidal bulla ethm.b ; ant.cthm., aperture of the anterior ethmoidal cells in the hiatus senii- unans h.s., immediately below the ethmoidal bulla ; antr., aperture of the maxillary antrum also in the hiatus, and close to those of the anterior ethmoidal cells but concealed by the uncinate process pr.unc. ■ antr. an accessory orifice to the antrum, sometimes present in the lower part of the hiatus semilunaris ; mfund., infundibulum leading to the aperture of the frontal sinus, fr.sin. (through which a probe is passed) ■ nd., orifice of nasal duct, beneath the inferior turbinal ; ag.n., agger nasi : Fai t Eustachian tube ; f.R., lateral recess of pharynx (fossa of Rosenmuller). lunaris and below the attachment of the concha is an oval prominence of the lateral wall which is often very strongly marked. This is the ethmoidal bulla of Zucker- kandl, and above or upon it are the apertures of the middle ethmoidal cells (fig. 155). The ethmoidal bulla has been held to be a rudiment of an additional ethmoidal concha which is well developed in macrosmatic mammals; but this opinion, although it seemed a probable one, is not supported by the most recent researches. Zuckerkandl has shown that there is frequently present, especially in the foetus and child a second ethmoidal fissure parallel to and above the principal fissure. This second fissure separates off the lower part of the superior ethmoidal concha as a middle ethmoidal concha