THE AUDLTORY OSSICLES. 93 l.tx.fn existence of muscular tissue in this situation. Many of the fibres of the anterior ligament take origin from a bony prominence which projects from the margin of the external meatus into the tympanum, and forms the anterior boundary of the notch of Rivinus This prominence is known as the anterior spinous process oi the tympanum (spina tympanies anterior) (fig. 101, sp) to distinguish it from another smaller bony prominence or spine at the posterior extremity of the notch (seep. 81). laeeuorv anterior ligament.—A comparatively stout sheath surrounds the tendon of the tensor tympani as it passes from the end of the cochleariform process to the malleus, and a flatHgamentous hand with a thickened margin (fig. 101, 0, which lies along the anterior border of this sheath, stretching between the anterior wall of the tympanum and the upper Fig. 101.—View of the cavity of the TYMPANUM, OPENED FKOJI ABOVE. (Magnified four times.) (E. A. S.) m, head of the malleus ; sp, spina tympanica anterior ; I. a. m, anterior ligament of the malleus ; l.e.m, external ligament of the malleus ; II, gap between the two ligaments leading to the mem- brana flaccida and notch of Rivinus ; i, body of the incus ; I. i, posterior ligament of the incus ; pr. o, processus orbicularis of the incus seen in the depth of the cavity, articulated with the head of the stapes, st; st', tendon of the stapedius muscle emerging from the pyramid ; ^ tt, tendon of the tensor tympani, emerging , ,. from the conical end of its canal ; I, thickened edge of a flattened band of ligamentous fibres which lies in the fold of the mucous membrane, m.m., and assists in fixing the malleus ; s. I. m, superior ligament oi the malleus, cut short; n, chorda tympani nerve. \ part of the manubrium and neck of the malleus, may be regarded as assisting in the fixation of the malleus anteriorly. Toynbee described the sheath in question as acting as an accessory ligament (tensor ligament). The external ligament of the malleus (fig. 101, l.e.m.), is a fan-shaped ligamentous structure, the fibres of which arise from the margin of the notch of Rivinus, and converge to the short process and adjacent part of the malleus. The posterior bundle of fibres of this ligament, together with the anterior bundle of the anterior ligament are termed by Helmholtz the " axis-ligament of the malleus," since they are attached nearly in the axis of rotation of that bone. « The superior ligament of the malleus (figs. 101, 102, s.l.m.) consists of a small bundle of fibres, which passes downwards and outwards from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus, and serves to check the outward move- ments of the manubrium and membrona tympani. Inferior ligament of the malleus.—A small bundle of ligamentous fibres is occasionally found pa*sino- from near the extremity of the handle of the malleus upwards and backwards behind the long process of the incus, to be attached to the outer wall of the tympanum. This liga- ment assists the external ligament in resisting a too violent action of the tensor tympani muscle, and it serves also to restrict any rotating action which that muscle may tend to exert upon the malleus. The ligament of the incus (figs. 90, 101, U.) extends from near the point of the short crus backwards towards the posterior wall of the tympanum, but some of its fibres spread also outwards and inwards. It is attached below the entrance to the mastoid cells. Muscles.—There are only two well-determined muscles of the tympanum. Sommerring described four, and some authors have mentioned a larger number; but