52 THE EYE. indistinct on treatment with acetic acid and dilute alkalies, but much more slowly than connective tissue fibrils 5 moreover, they are not dissolved by boiling in water. They are much less developed in the central and posterior part of the retina than in the peripheral and anterior part 5 towards the ora serrata they are very distinct and closely set. big. 09.—Interna... limiting membrane of the ret.na treated with silver nitrate, showing THE OUTLINES OF THE BASES OF THE Mi/LLERIAN FIBRES. (KetzillS.) At the lower part of the figure some of these fibres are seen separated. Structure of the macula lutea and fovea centralis (fig. GO). The peculiarities in structure which these present have partly been* incidentally noticed in the preceding description of the retinal layers.' In the fovea no rods are met with, and the cones, especially their inner segments, are much longer and narrower than elsewhere. All the other layers are much thinned, but towards the margin of the fovea they rapidly increase in thickness, and in the rest of the macula lutea most of them are thicker than at any other part of the retina. The ganglionic layer (fig. 60, 2) is especially thickened at the edge of the fovea, the cells being from six to eight deep. They are smaller here than nearer the centre of the fovea. The nerve-fibre layer (1) gradually thins and disappears as a distinct layer near the edge of the fovea as the fibres join the central ends of the ganglion- cells. The opposite end of each ganglion-cell is directed vertically towards the inner nuclear layer. The bipolar inner granules are somewhat obliquely disposed. They are smaller than the outer granules and, as elsewhere, much smaller than the ganglion- cells. At the centre of the fovea they are but thinly scattered, and the inner and outer molecular layers appear to join between them. At the middle of the fovea the retina is very thin, consisting here mainly of the cone-cells {i.e., cones with their nucleated fibres) and pigmentary layer, but a few of the inner granules are also present, aud one or two isolated nerve-cells (perhaps amacrine cells) may also lie seen very near to the centre. According to the figures and description given by M. Schultze the membrana limitans externa is also cupped in at this place, and the cones, both inner and outer segments, are considerably longer than elsewhere, so that