55 VESSELS OF THE RETINA. lumen like true tubular glands (E. T. Collins). The function of these cWatry glands is not certainly known, but they are believed to take part m the secretion of the a(1UVeLeUirof the Retina—A single artery (arteria centralis retince) passes between the bundles of fibres of the optic nerve to the inner surface of the retina at he middle of the papilla optici (fig. 64). It enters the nerve about 15-20 mm. from the globe of the eye, being accompanied by the corresponding vein "and giving off small branches to supply the central^part of the nerve. Emerging at the papilla oculi the vessels divide into branches (fig. 63) usually two one" above, the other below (superior and inferior papillary Z»/*es), each ot these a^ain almost immediately dividing into two branches which arch out towards f -temporal Fig. 63.—Retina as seen with the ophthalmoscope. (Jaeger.) a,a, branches of central artery ; v,v., branches of central vein ; /, fovea. the sides (superior and inferior nasal and temporal Iranches) ; the outer ones are somewhat the larger, and as they bend round the macula lutea they send numerous line branches into it which end, a short distance from the centre of the fovea, m canillarv loops. The macula is also supplied by small vessels which pass directly to it from the papilla. The middle of the fovea centralis has no blood-vessels. 1 he main branches of the vessels pass forwards in the nerve-fibre and ganglionic layers, dividing dichotomously as they proceed, and giving off fine offsets to the substance of the retina, where they form two capillary networks, the one m the nerve- and ganglionic layer, the other in the inner nuclear layer. The capillaries of the former are mainly connected with the arteries, and those of the latter with the veins, the communication between the two networks being effected by vertically and obliquely coursin- capillaries which traverse the inner molecular layer. No vessels penetrate the outer molecular layer (His, Hesse), so that the outer retinal layers are entirely destitute of blood-vessels. The retinal arteries have no anastomoses, thus resembling those of the grey matter of the brain. ; The vascular system of the retina is nowhere in direct communication with the choroidal vessels. Near the entrance of the optic nerve, however, it comes into communication with some offsets from the posterior ciliary in the sclerotic coat, and the choroidal vessels also send branches to join the long-meshed network in the optic