THE EYE. 10 upper end is closed and rounded, forming a cul-de-sac 5 the lower end gradually narrows into the nasal duct. On the outer side, and a little in front, it receives the lachrymal canals ; and here it is placed behind the internal tarsal ligament, and some of the inner fibres of the orbicular muscle of the lids ; while on its orbital surface is the tensor tarsi muscle. The nasal duel, very variable in length (12 to 24 mm.), and 3 or 4 mm. wide, grooving the upper maxilla, descends to the fore part of the lower meatus of the nose, the osseous canal being completed by the lachrymal and lower turbinate bones. Both sac and duct are composed of fibrous and elastic tissues, adhering closely to the bones above mentioned, and strengthened in the case of the lachrymal sac by a fibrous process sent from the internal tarsal ligament, which crosses it a little above its middle. The inner surface is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous through the canalicuh with the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the mucous membrane of the nose. At the opening into the nose the lining membrane is often arranged so as to form an imperfect valve (Hasner). Other valvular folds have been often noticed and described, but they appear to be less constant. The nasal duct is rather narrower in the middle than at either end ; its direction is not quite vertical, but inclined slightly backwards. Its direction is indicated by a line joining the mesial canthus of the eyelids with the anterior edge of the first molar of the upper jaw (Testut). The lower orifice of the nasal duct is very variable in position, but is usually from 80 to 35 mm. behind the posterior margin of the anterior nasal openiug (Arlt). It may open by a simple round orifice close under the inferior turbinate, or by an oblique or slit-like orifice or groove in the mucous membrane somewhat lower. In rare cases two lower openings have been described. This condition is always present in some animals {e.g., dog). The nasal sac and duct are lined by a columnar epithelium, which may be ciliated here and there, but does not appear to be covered everywhere with cilia as is the case on the adjacent mucous membrane of the nose. The lower part of the nasal duct has numerous glands similar to those in the nasal meatus into which it opens. The arteries come from the nasal and inferior palpebral. The veins are very large and numerous on the nasal duct (as in the adjacent nasal mucous mem- brane). The nerves are derived from the infratrochlear branch of the nasal division of the ophthalmic. THE GLOBE OF THE EYE. The globe or ball of the eye is supported by a quantity of fat and loose connective tissue in the fore part of the orbital cavity, somewhat nearer its lateral and inferior walls than its mesial and superior. The recti and obliqui muscles closely surround the greater part of the eyeball, and are capable of changing its position within certain limits : the lids, with the plica semilunaris and caruncle, are in contact with its covering of conjunctiva in front; and behind it receives th#thick stem of the optic nerve. The eyeball is composed of segments of two spheres, of which the anterior is the smaller and more prominent ; the segment of the larger posterior opaque sphere corresponds with the limit of the sclerotic coat, and that of the smaller sphere with the cornea. The junction of the two is marked by a broad shallow groove which has been named sulcus sclerce. The eyeball measures nearly an inch (24-5 mm.) across from side to side, but slightly less from before back (24 mm.), and still less from above down (23-5). It weighs about 7 grammes, and has a volume of about 6-5 cubic centimetres.