126 THE EAII. of Corti. In most animals they are less grouped together and more distributed along the length of each cell of Deiters (fig. 139), but with the same spiral arrange- ment ami in the same relative position. Vessels of the cochlea.—The branches of the internal auditory artery to the cochlea, twelve or fourteen in number, arising at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, traverse small canals in the modiolus and bony lamina spiralis, and also pass to the outer wall of the cochlea, forming at the root of the septum, between the turns of the cochlear tube a spirally-arranged glomerulus-like arterial plexus, which sends vessels to the subjacent stria vascularis and to the periosteum lining the adjacent scalue (Schwalbe). From this plexus offsets are distributed in the form of a fine network on the periosteum, but the vessels do not anastomose across the membrana basilaris. The bony cochlea also receives through the fenestra rotunda a twig from the stylomastoid branch of the occipital artery. The veins of the cochlea issue from the grooves of the cochlear axis, and join the veins of the vestibule and semicircular canals at the base of the modiolus. A small sinUs-like vein passes through the aqueductus cochlese, from the lowermost turn of the cochlear tube, and joins the commencement of the internal jugular vein. Development of the organ of Corti.—The organ of Corti is at first com- posed of columnar epithelium-cells forming part of the layer of epithelium which membrana inner teetoria hair-cell outer hair-cells inner rod vas spirale outer rod Figs. 147 and 148.—Two stages in the development of the organ of Corti of the cat. (Q-. Ketzius.) r In the preparation represented in fig. 147 the hair-cells are differentiated ; in that shown in fit:. ] IS the rods of Corti are also beginning to bo formed, and the nerve-fibres have reached the organ of Corti, and are already mnning spirally below the hair-cells. lines the whole of the membranous labyrinth. After a time certain of these cells begin to be differentiated and become distinguishable from the rest as the inner and