THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 101 external semicircular canal (fig. 108, 4 ; fig. 109, 7) arches horizontally outwards, unci opens by two distinct orifices into the upper and back part of the vestibule (fig. 107, amp* and s.c.e.). The canal is shorter than either of the other two (15 mm.): its ampulla is at the outer end, above the fenestra ovahs. Fig 108 —Right bony labyrinth, viewed from the outer side (after Sommerrmg). °' Magnified 2^ times. The specimen here represented is prepared by separating piecemeal the looser sutatance of the petrous bone from the dense walls which immediately enc ose the labyrinth 1, the vestibule ; Henestrovali3 superior semicircular canal ; 4, horizontal or external canal; 5 posterior canal ; * • vSjSEof the Semicircular canals ; 6, first turn of the cochlea ;_7, second turn j 8, apex ; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure in outline below shows the natural size. Fig. 109.—View of the interior op the left labyrinth. (From Sbmmerring.) ^ The bony wall of the labyrinth is removed superiorly and externally. > 1, fovea hemi-elliptica ; 2, fovea hemisphere ; 3, common opening of the superior and posterior semicircular canals ; 4, opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 5, the superior ; 6, the posterior, and 7, the external Beno^lax canals ; 8, spiral tube of the cochlea (scala tympani) ; 9, opening of the aqueduct of the cochlea , 10, placed on the lamina spiralis in the scala vestibuli. The cochlea (figs. 108 to 116), when cleared of the surrounding less dense bony substance in which it lies embedded, appears in the form of a blunt cone, the base of which is turned towards the internal auditory meatus, whilst the apex is directed Fig. 110.—Views of a cast of the interior of the labyrinth. (From Henle.) ? Such casts may easily be made in fusible metal, and give a very correct view of the form of the different parts of the labyrinthic cavity. A, view of the left labyrinth from the outer side , B the right labyrinth from the inner side ; C, the left labyrinth from above ; s, the superior, ^ the posterior and e, the external semicircular canals; a, their several ampulla ; r e fovea hemi-elliptica ot the vestibule ; r s, fovea hemisphere ; a v, aqueduct of the vestibule ; f o, fenestra ovalis ; f r, teneslra rotunda ; c, the coiled tube of the cochlea ; c', the tractus spiralis foraminulentus. outwards, with an inclination forwards and downwards, and is close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It measures about 5mm. from base to apex, and 9 mm. in breadth at the base. It consists of a gradually tapering spiral tube, the inner wall of which is formed by a central column, or modiolus (fig. 113), around which