STRUCTURE OF FOVEA CENTRALIS. 5:3 the line of pigment remains level. Hnlke figured the limitans externa as plane and others (eg Merkel, Enfant, Schwalbe) have formally denied this cupping of the m limitans externa. Undoubtedly, however, it exists and may, as a glance at fig. 60 will render evident, be as deep as that of the limitans interna or true fovea, from which for purposes of description it may be distinguished by the name of fovea externa On the other hand, the inner segments of the cones are not longer here than elsewhere, but are if anything somewhat shorter than at the edge of the fovea, but this is more than compensated for by the greater length of their outer segments. The cones are also more slender in the very middle of the fovea than elsewhere, here measuring not more than 0-002mm., whereas at the edge of the fovea they are double this in diameter. The outer nuclear layer (fig. GO, (!) of the macula lutea is , ,*»tfwflllim\\\\l Fis 60— Diagram of a section tukougu this fovea cemhalis. (The outlines ot tins figure have been traced from a photograph.) Magnified 350 diameters. (From a preparation by C. H. Golding-Bird.) 2 oanMionic layer : 4, inner nuclear; 6, outer nuclear layer, the cone-fibres forming the so-called external fibrous layer; 7, cones; m.l.e., membrana limitans externa; m.li. membrana limitans interna. occupied in the greater part of its thickness by the very long and obliquely disposed cone-fibres ; the nuclei are only two or three deep, and take up a compara- tively small portion of the layer, which was termed the outer fibrous layer by Henle. Over most of the yellow spot the cone-nuclei are placed close up to the limitans externa, but a short distance from the middle of the fovea they begin to be removed from the limitans, and at the centre of the fovea they are close to the outer molecular layer. The cells of the pigmentary layer are smaller but deeper (O'Olmm. x o"oi6mm.) and more strongly pigmented in the macula lutea than in the rest of the retina. The hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour is very thin over the centre of the fovea. The choroid coat is thickened opposite the fovea, the thickening being due to an accumulation of capillary blood-vessels, which here occupy not only their usual position but also that of the layer of larger blood- vessels, and even encroach on the lamina suprachoroidea (Nuel).