24 THE EYE. processes, disposed in a circle and projecting into the anterior part of the vitreous humour. These give attachment to the suspensory ligament of the lens. The choroid coat is thickest behind, where it is pierced by the optic nerve. The outer surface is connected to the sclerotic by loose connective tissue and by vessels and nerves which pass obliquely across a lymph-space which otherwise serves to separate Fig. 26.—Chohoid membrane and ieis exposed by the removal op the sclerotic and cornea. (After Zinn.) Twice the natural size. a, part of the sclerotic thrown back ; b, ciliary muscle ; c, iris ; e, one of the ciliary nerves • f one ot the vasa vorticosa or choroidal veins. ' J' Fig. 27.—Ciliary processes as seen from behind. Twice the natural size. 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil: 2, anterior part of the choroid coat ; 3, ciliary processes. ^ UJe the two tunics. The inner surface, which is smooth, is covered by the hexagonal pigmented cells of the retina. These, when the retina is detached, generally remain partly adherent to the choroid, and were formerly described as belonging to that coat, but they are now known to be intimately related, both morphologically and physiologically, to the retina. The ciliary part of the choroid with "the ciliary processes is often spoken of as the ciliary body (corpus ciliare). The ciliary processes (fig. 27), about seventy in number, are arranged mendionally, and together form a circle. They consist of larger and smaller thickenings without regular alternation. Each of the larger ones, measuring about 2-5 mm. in length and 0*6 mm. in depth, forms a rounded projection at its inner (anterior) end, which is free from the pigment which invests the rest of the structure ; but externally they gradually taper, and become lost. The smaller processes are only half as deep as the others, and about one-third as numerous. At and near the inner ends the processes are connected by lateral projections. Structure of the Choroid.—The choroid consists mainly of blood-vessels united by delicate connective tissue, which contains numerous large ramified and pigmented cells. Externally the choroid is bounded by a non-vascular membranous layer similar to the lamina fusca of the sclerotic, and known as the lamina suprachoroidea. This is composed of thin membranes of a homogeneous aspect, but pervaded by networks of fine elastic fibres, and covered by large flat cells. It contains also large flattened pigment-cells dispersed irregularly or arranged in patches, with considerable intervals