26 THE EYE. enhanced by a layer of iridescent endothelial cells, which becomes formed immediately within the fibrous layer (Sattler). Ia the outer part of the coat are situated, as just stated, the larger branches of the vessels. The arteries (short ciliary) are comparatively large and numerous, and Fig. 30.—Lateral view op the arteries op the choroid and iris. (From Arnold.) a, optic nerve ; b, part of the sclerotic left behind ; o, region of ciliary muscle ; d, iris ; 1, posterior ciliary arteries piercing the sclerotic and passing along the choroid ; 2, one of the long ciliary arteries • 3, anterior ciliary arteries. ' Fig. 31.—Lateral view op the veins op the choroid. (From Arnold.) 1, 1, two trunks of the vense vorticosse at the place where they leave the choroid and pierce the sclerotic coat. The other lettering as in fig. 30. piercing the sclerotic close to the optic nerve (figs. 30 and 32), divide into branches which are directed at first forwards but soon bend obliquely inwards to end in the capillary layer; whilst the veins external to the arteries are disposed in curves (vasa Fig. 32.—Injected blood-vessels of the choroid coat (from Sap- pey). 30 diameters. 1, one of the larger veins ; 2, • small communicating vessels ; 3, branches dividing into the smallest vessels. vorticosa) as they converge to four or five principal trunks (fig. 31, l,f; fig. 26), which pierce the sclerotic about half way between the margin of the oornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. In the intervals between the vessels are elongated and stellate pig- ment-cells. The veins, like those of the pia mater, have no muscular tissue ; they are enclosed by an adventitious sheath, between which and the endothelium, which forms the wall of the vein, is a lymph-space (perivascular sheath). The arteries have, besides the ordinary circular muscular fibres, strands of longitudinally disposed plain muscular tissue in their adventitia. As the venae vorticosas pass through the sclerotic they are ensheathed by a prolongation of suprachoroidal tissue (Fuchs).