47 RODS AND CONES OF TFTE RETINA. (anguished by their shape, which is somewhat pyrifonn, by the absence of transverse striation, and by their position—for they occupy the part of the outer nuclear layer nearest the meinbrana limitans externa,1 and the larger end of each is thus in close proximity to the base of the corresponding cone (fig. 48), with which it is directly connected, or there is at most a short, comparatively thick stalk uniting the two (see fig. 52). At the macula lutea, however, where only cone-granules are met with, many of them are further removed from the limiting membrane, and the stalk is then longer (fig. GO). The nucleus of each cone-granule, which, as in the case of the rod-granules, occupies almost all the enlargement, is spheroidal, and contains a distinct nucleolus. The cone-fibre is very much thicker than the rod-fibre above described, and is itself finely striated or fibrillated. It passes from the smaller end of the pear-shaped enlargement straight through the outer nuclear layer to reach the outer molecular layer, upon which it rests by a somewhat pyramidal base (cone- foot), from which ramifications may be traced into the substance of the molecular layer where they interlace with the ramifications of the peripheral processes of the cone-bipolars (see above) (fig. 52). 7. The layer of rods and cones.—The elements which compose this layer are, as their name implies, of two kinds, those of the one kind—the rods—having an Fig. 53.—Outer surface ov the columnar layer op the retina (Kblliker). 350 diameters. a, part within the macula lutea, where only cones are present ; 6, part near the macula, where a single row of rods intervenes between the cones ; c, from a part of the retina midway between the macula and the ora serrata, showing the preponderance of the rods. elongated cylindrical form (about 0-060 mm. long and 0'002 mm. diameter); the cones, on the other hand, being shorter (0*035 mm.), much thicker (0*006 mm.), bulged at the inner end or base, and terminated externally by a finer tapering portion. Both rods and cones are closely set in a palisade-like manner over the whole extent of the retina between the membrana limitans externa and the pig- mentary layer (fig. 48, 7). Except at the macula lutea, where only cones are met with, the rods far exceed the cones in number. Their relative number and arrangement is well exhibited when the layer is viewed from the outer surface, as in fig. 53, where a represents a portion of the layer from the macula lutea ; b, from the immediate neighbour- hood of the latter ; and c, from the peripheral part of the retina. o Fig. 54.—A ROD AND A CONE FROM THE HUMAN RETINA (Max Schultze). (Highly magnified.) In the rod the longitudinal striation of both the outer and inner segments is shown ; in the cone the transverse striation of the outer segment and the longitudinal of the inner segment; I, limitans externa. The total number of cones in the human retina has been calculated to exceed three millions ; and of rods many times this number. It may be of interest here to note that the number of fibres in each optic nerve is about half a million (Salzer). The rods and the cones, although differing thus in shape and size, agree in many points of structure. Thus, each consists of two distinct segments—an inner and an outer ; the division between the two occurring, in the case of the rods, about the middle of their length (in man) ; in the cones at the junction of the finer tapering 1 In Teleostei the cone-nuclei lie outside the limitans externa,