THE CORNEA. u 2 that the injection always stops at the margin of the cornea, where the tissue becomes closer as it passes into the sclerotic, whereas Recklinghausen's canals are continued into the cell-spaces of the sclerotic. --mm. Frequently in advancing- age there occurs a deposit of fatty granules at the margin ot the cornea, forming a whitish opaque ring about 1mm. from the corneo-sclerotic junction. This ring is known as the arcus senilis. Fig. 19.—Vertical section OF HUMAN CORNEA FROM NEAR THE MARGIN. (W.ll- deyer.) Magnified. 1, epithelium ; 2, anterior homogeneous lamina ; 3, sub- stantia propria cornese ; 4, posteriorhoniogeneous (elastic) lamina ; 5, endothelium of the anterior chamber ; a, oblique fibres in the anterior layer of the substantia propria; b, lamellae the fibres of which are cut across, producing a dotted appearance ; c, corneal corpuscles appearing fusiform in section ; d, lamella? the fibres of which are cut longi- tudinally ; e, transition to the sclerotic, with more distinct fibrillation, and surmounted by a thicker epithelium ; /, small blood-vessels cut across near the margin of the cornea. Membrane of Bow- man.—The part of the cornea immediately be- neath the anterior epi- thelium, for a thickness of 0*01 mm. to 0*02 mm., is denser than the rest of the tissue, and entirely free from corpuscles (fig. 18, 2), (anterior homoge- neous lamina, membrane of Bowman). Although described as a separate formation it appears not to differ materially in structure from the rest of the corneal substance, fibres from which may be seen passing obliquely towards, and becoming lost within it (fig. 19, a). It is thickest in the middle, thinning off gradually towards the edges of the cornea. The membrane of Descemet (fig. 19, 4) (membrane of Demonrs, posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), not very closely united with the fibrous part of the cornea, is transparent and glassy in appearance. It is firm and structureless, but very elastic ; and when shreds are removed from it they tend to curl up with the attached surface innermost. It is not readily' affected by acids, by boiling in water, or by maceration in alkalies, but under some conditions it can be split up into very fine lamella?. In thickness it varies from O'OOG mm. to 0-012 mm., being thinnest in the middle and thickening towards the margin. Here also there are