THE CHOROID COAT. 28 con- cells At In addition to the nerves which are destined for the epithelium, others, for the proper substance of the cornea, come off from the primary plexuses, and, after uniting into one or more secondary plexuses, the cords of which are still composite, eventually form, in and among the laminffi, a terminal ramification ot ultimate fibrils, the meshes of which are much more open than those of the intra- epithelial network (see fig. 25). An actual connection of these nerves with the Fig. 24.—Vertical section of rab- bit's CORNEA, CHLORIDE OF gold preparation. (Ranvier.) n, r, parts of fundamental plexus ; a, vertical branch passing to sub- epithelial plexus, s; p, b, inter- epithelial ramification. corpuscles of the cornea pro- bably never occurs; although, since the fine nerve-fibrils run in the anastomosing cell- spaces, they come into close connection with the cor- puscles and their processes, and they have therefore been described by some observers as being actually tinuous with the latter. The larger branches of the nerves are covered with a sheath of flattened which, as before mentioned, are in connection with the corpuscles of the cornea. Fig. 25.—Corpuscles and nerves IN" THE SUBSTANTIA PROPRIA OF THE CORNEA OF THE FROG) CHLORIDE OF GOLD PREPARA- TION. (Waldeyer.) 1, bundle of fundamental plexus ; 2, nucleus ; 3, terminal fibril ; 4, corneal corpuscles. the points of junction of the plexuses nuclei are frequently seen (fig. 25, 2), but these appear to belong- to the ensheathing cells, and are not interpolated in the course of the fibres. THE VASCULAR COAT. The vascular coat of the eye (tunica uvea s. vasculosa) lies within the corneo- sclerotic coat, and consists of two parts, which are continuous with one another, viz., the choroid and iris. The choroid is applied to the inner surface of the sclerotic, and the retina is firmly attached to its inner surface ; the iris is attached only at its circumference, otherwise floating freely in the aqueous humour imme- diately in front of the lens, with which it comes lightly into contact, and separated from the cornea by the depth of the anterior chamber. The choroid coat (tunica choroidea) is a dark brown membrane (black m most animals) lying between the sclerotic and the retina. Anteriorly it is continued into the iris, but before it passes into this it forms a number of radial thickenings named ciliary