45 LAYERS OF THE RETINA, same way as do the cells of the ganglion-cell layer, that is to say, part y in the varying size of the cell-body, and the character of the cell-processes, partly in the position of fcheir terminal arborescences within the inner molecular layer. The varieties of amacrine cells described by Cajal are firstly, those with diffusely ramified orooesses their arboresoenoe extending throughout the whole depth of the molecular layer (fie 50 i h- VI D), and secondly, those having their terminal arborescences horizontally placed in'the several strata of the molecular layer. Of these so-called stratified amacrmes there are. as in the case of the ganglion-cells, three principal types— (1 ) Those of the first type (fig. 50, v., B, E ; VI., B) have for the most part very large cell-bodies and a thick stalk-like process, sometimes more than one, extending into the inner molecular layer, and ramifying in one or other of its strata over a considerable extent of area, but with comparatively few and relatively coarse processes. A good deal of variation is, however met with in the character and extent of these processes. (9 ) Those of the second type (fig. 50, v., F, G, H : VI., E, F, G ; m, B, C) have a pyriform cell-body of medium size with a straight stalk passing into the molecular layer, and ending m one of its strata in a moderately extended close interlacement of fibrils. (3) The amacrines of the third type .(fig. 50, v., D ; VI., C) are of small or medium size, usually with a fine stalk-like process passing into the molecular layer. From the lower (inner) end of this process a terminal tuft of very fine radiating fibrils spreads out m one of the strata of the molecular layer,'the extent of the arborescence thus formed being oftentvery considerable. When, however, the arborescence is near the inner nuclear layer, the bonis may come off from the body of the cell (fig. 50, v., VI., A), c. Spongioblasts ofouter molecular layer: horizontal cells of Cajal: lasal cells.— These are flattened or irregularly projecting cells, the bodies of which occupy the outermost part of the inner nuclear layer, whilst their greatly ramified processes extend into and end in the outer molecular layer. The stratum in which they he is termed by Cajal the layer of horizontal cells ; it was previously described by W. Krause as the membrana fenestrata. Two kinds of these cells have been noticed by Cajal in mammals, and by their situation they serve to subdivide the layer into two strata, an inner and an outer. (1 ) The cells in the inner stratum of the layer are large and broadly pyramidal in shape, the base being directed towards the outer molecular layer, and resolving itself into a large number of coarse but rapidly tapering processes which end in small tufts of short varicose vertical fibrils at about the level in the outer molecular layer in which the knobs of the rod- fibres occur. The apex of the pyramid is sometimes truncated, but m other cases can be traced as a' thick vertical process down into the inner molecular layer, where it ends m horizontal branches. Each cell has a long axis-cylinder process, which extends for a con- siderable distance within the outer molecular layer to end in a closely interlaced terminal ramification (fig. 50, II., B, C ; IV., a). » (2 ) Semilunar cells, from the upper (outer) flattened surface of which a thick brush ot closely interlacing radiating filaments comes off and passes vertically outwards towards the base of the rod- and cone-fibres (fig. 50, II., A). These also have an axis-cylinder process which passes, horizontally and a little upwards to end in the outer part of the outer molecular layer. 5. Outer molecular layer.—The outer molecular layer is much thinner than the inner, but otherwise presents, in vertical sections of hardened retina, a similar granular appearance. This layer (fig. 50, n.) is largely formed of the processes of the horizontal cells which have just°been described, and also of the outwardly directed protoplasmic processes of the bipolars, which ramify within it and interlace with similarly ramifying fibres from the cones, and with the knobbed ends of the rod-fibres. In some mammals there are cells with widely extending branched processes resting upon the outer surface of the outer molecular layer (fig. 50, in., h), much in the same way as some of the amacrine cells rest upon the inner molecular. The outer molecular layer also receives fine axis-cylinder processes which pass into it from the inner molecular (fig. 50, I., *), but whence they are derived is not known.