122 THE EAR. conical shape, rest by their bases upon the basilar membrane, and each one encloses m its substance a cuticular filament which is fixed below to that membrane This filament is prolonged above in the tapering apex of the cell, between the hair-cells and m close contact with one of them, and is attached above to, or rather expands to form, one of the so-called phalanges of the reticular lamina : it is known as the phalangeal process of Deltas' cell. This cuticular filament mav probably be regarded as the equivalent of the rod of Corti, the cell of Deiters to which it belongs°being looked upon as representing the protoplasmic cell which lies at the foot of each rod ot Corti, and in the young subject encloses the rod. Hensen has described a clear oval capsule with a spiral fibre wound around it, occupying the part of the hair-cell next to the free extremity. oooupyinj, Fig- 139.—Four cells ok Deiters, from the rabbit. (Modified from G. Retzius.) Highly magnified. The phalangeal processes are shown, each expanding to form a phalanx of the reticular lamina. The varicose lines are spirally running nerve-fibrils. In most animals there are three series of outer hair- cells, but in man there are four series except in the lowermost turn (fig. 136, h) and even five and six in the upper turns of the cochlea (Pritchard) ; but where they are more numerous they tend to be somewhat irregularly placed and intermittent. There are about 12,000 outer hair-cells and 20 hairlets to each cell in the human cochlea (Retzius). The columnar cells outside the hair- cells are much elongated and obliquely disposed, but become gradually shorter and more vertical as they pass into the simple cubical epithelium on the outer part of the basilar membrane. Spaces filled with endoiymph are seen both in the inner and outer hair-cell region and communicate between the rods of Corti with the tunnel-space. The largest of these secondary spaces lies between the outer rods and the first row of outer hair-cells (Nuel). (See fig. 136.) The cells which immediately succeed the hair-cells form in some animals a distinct swelling or arch outside the hair-cell region, from which and from the basilar membrane they may be separated by a considerable space occupied by endoiymph. In the guinea-pig they contain a considerable number of fat globules in the upper turns of the cochlea They are sometimes known as the " cells of Hensen," whilst those which follow them and rest on the lateral half of the basilar membrane have been termed " cells of Claudius.1' Lamina reticularis (figs. 132, 110).—The net-like membrane which overlies the outer hair-cell region of the organ of Corti is composed of at least two rows of elongated fiddle-shaped structures termed "phalanges" which are united to one another and to the phalangeal processes of the outer rods in such a manner as to leave between them oblong apertures through which the free ends of the hair-cells with their semicircular rows of auditory hairs project. The phalanges, although they seem like rings, are in reality thin plates with thickened margins, and are to all appearance of a cuticular nature : the most external row of phalanges is in con- tinuity with a cuticular tissue which lies between the external epithelium cells. Attached to the phalanges below are the phalangeal processes of the cells of Deiters (fig. 139). The lamina varies in extent with the number of rows of hair-cells. Where there are four or more of these, a corresponding increase in the number of rows of cells of Deiters and of phalanges is observed. The phalanges serve to isolate the hair-bearing ends of the auditory cells.