THE EYE. (figs. 23, 24, and 25). The canal of Schlemm is often double (fig. 22) ; it communicates with the spaces between the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum, and through these with the aqueous chamber of the eye. But, on the other hand, the canal of Schlemm, and the other cavernous spaces in its neighbourhood, are in communication with the veins of the anterior part of the sclerotic, and therefore the aqueous chamber must also through them communicate with the veins'. In support of this, it was found by Schwalbe that both the spaces and the veins became filled with coloured fluid when this had been injected into the anterior chamber. Why blood does not find its way into the latter during life is not explained, since no valves have as yet been discovered in these veins or spaces • the reason given being, that greater resistance is offered to its passage here than to its return by the ordinary paths. According to Leber, on the other hand, the results obtained by Schwalbe were due to a diffusible colouring matter having been employed for filling the anterior chamber. Leber affirms that when a non-diffusible one is used it never penetrates into the canal of Schlemm. which is simply a large circular terminal vein, or a collection of two or three plexiform veins uniting at frequent intervals into one trunk. It is admitted, however, that fluid may pass with extreme readiness from the anterior chamber into these veins. The study of the development of the eye shows that the loose tissue in which the spaces of Fontana occur, as well as the endothelium of Descemet's membrane and the membrane itself, belong to a vascular layer of mesoblast which is continuous with the choroidal layer of the embryonic eye, but which as development proceeds, becomes separated from the vascu- lar layer of the choroidal coat (iris and pupillary membrane), owing to the formation of the anterior chamber ; it then comes to form part of the cornea. Vessels and nerves.—In a state of health the cornea is not provided with blood-vessels, except at the circumference, where the capillaries of the conjunctiva Fig. 23.—COKNEA OF RABBIT, VIEWED ON THE FLAT, SHOWING THE SUBEPITHE- LIAL PLEXUS ; CHLORIDE OF GOLD PREPARATION. (Ranvier.) n, nerve of fundamental plexus, giving off pencils of fibrils, a, to form the subepi- thelial plexus, e. and sclerotic end in loops. Neither are any lymphatic vessels dis- coverable, unless the channels in which the nerves run, and which are lined with flattened cells and are indirectly in connection with the cell- spaces, are to be taken as representing them. The nerves, on the other hand, are very numerous. Derived from the ciliary nerves, they enter the fore part of the sclerotic, and are from forty to forty-five in number (Waldeyer), forming a plexus which surrounds the margin of the cornea (plexus annularis). Continued into the fibrous part of the cornea, partly directly, partly by passing to the adjacent con- junctiva, they retain their medullary sheath for 1 to 2 mm., and then, becoming non-medullated, ramify and form a plexus in the laminated structure, near the anterior surface. From this, fundamental plexus branches pass obliquely through the anterior homogeneous lamina, where they divide into pencils of fibrils, whose general direction is towards the centre of the cornea, and which join with one another to form a much finer and closer plexus immediately beneath the epithelium. From this subepithelial plexus fine, varicose, fibrils pass among the epithelium-cells, and form here a terminal ramification which extends almost to the free surface