THE EAR. 71 THE EAR. The organ of hearing is divisible into three parts: the external ear (fig. 78, 1, 2), the tympanum or middle ear (3), and the labyrinth or internal ear (G). The Fig. 78.—Diagrammatic vikw from BEFORE OF THE PARTS COMPOSING THE ORGAN OF HEARING OF THE left side (after Arnold). The temporal bone of the left side, with the accompanying soft parts, has been detached from the head, and a section has been carried obliquely through it so as to remove the front of the meatus externus, half the tympanic membrane, and the upper and anterior wall of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. The meatus internus has also been opened, and the bony labyrinth exposed by the removal of the surrounding parts of the petrous bone. 1, the pinna and lobule ; 2 to 2', meatus externus ; 2', membrana tympani; 3, cavity of the tympanum ; above 3, the chain of small bones; 3', opening into the mastoid cells ; 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, meatus intemus, containing _ the facial (uppermost) and auditory nerves ; 6, placed on the vestibule of the labyrinth above the fenestra ovalis ; a, apex of the petrous bone ; issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen b, internal carotid artery ; c, styloid process ; d, facial nerve e, mastoid process ; /, squamous part of the bone. first two of these are to be considered as accessories to the third, which is the portion of the organ to which the fibres of the eighth or auditory nerve are distributed. THE EXTERNAL EAR. In the external ear are included the pinna—the part of the outer ear which projects from the side of the head—and the meatus or passage which leads thence to the tympanum, and which is closed at its inner extremity by a membrane inter- posed between it and the middle ear. THE PINNA. The general form of the pinna or auricle, as seen from the outside, is concave, to fit it for collecting and concentrating the undulations of sound, but it is thrown into various elevations and hollows, to which distinct names have been given (fio- 79). The largest and deepest concavity is called the concha ; it surrounds the entrance to the meatus, and is interrupted at its upper and anterior part by a ridge, which is the beginning of the helix. In front of the concha, and projecting back- wards over the meatus, is a conical prominence, the tragus (fig. 79), covered usually with hairs. Its upper part sometimes forms a rounded prominence (tuber- culum supratragicum, His). Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is another smaller elevation, the antUragus. Below the antitragns, and forming the lower end of the auricle, is the lobule, which is devoid of the firmness and elasticity that characterise the rest of the pinna. The thinner and larger portion of