sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm (fig. 22, 4). CANAL OF SOHLEMM. ference of Descemet's membrane, the name ligamentum pectinahcm was given by Hueck. They are sometimes known as the pillars of the iris. The fibres which pass to the iris are very much more marked in the eyes of the sheep and the ox than in the human eye. The bundles of the ligamentum pectinatum are covered with endothelial cells, continued from Descemet's membrane, but these cells do not stretch across the intervals between the bundles, so that the cavity of the aqueous chamber is prolonged into, and freely communicates with spaces in the tissue tissue of insertion of canal of canal of tissue of sclerotic. ciliary muscle. Xchlemm. Schlemm. cornea. ciliary muscle. uveal pigment of iris. irk stroma. Fig. 22.—Section (from the eye op a man), showing the relations op the ciliary muscle to °" THE SCLEROTIC, IRIS, AND THE CAVERNOUS SPACES NEAR THE ANGLE OP THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER. (E. A. S.) The figure, which is copied from a photograph, includes only a small portion of the ciliary muscle, the fibres°of which are seen to be converging to a point immediately anterior to the angle of the anterior chamber. Hero they are attached through the medium of a tongue of fibrous tissue of the sclerotic (consisting mainly of circular bundles) to the outer part of the ligamentum pectinatum, which forms a loose tissue with open meshes lying between the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber. To the right of the figure the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum are seen to be gradually converging towards the posterior surface of the cornea, and somewhat beyond the part shown in this figure they merge into the membrane of Descemet. The communication of the canal of Schlemm, which is double in this section, with the endothelial-lined spaces in the ligamentum pectinatum, is seen, as also the communications between the last-named spaces and the anterior chamber. between the bundles (fig. 22). These spaces are much larger and more distinct in some animals than in man, and in them they have received the name of spaces of Fontana. A similar, but rather larger space is found immediately in front of the ligamentum pectinatum in the substance of the sclerotic, close to its junction with the cornea. This circular space, which is elliptical in section, is known as the