108 THE EAlt. the middle , and beyond each rounded end of the crista is a crescent-shaped dge (covered by.coumnar epithelium) which has been termed 0mmTS lunalum, (fig. 119, 0. D.). Branches of the eighth nerve—Within the internal auditory meatus the eighth nerve divides into two branches, which, broken up into minute filaments, pass through perforations in'the plate of bone which separates the meatus from the internal ear, and are distributed respectively to the cochlea and vestibule. In both branches as well as in the trunk, there are numerous nerve-cells. The superior a%vmm (fig. 13 8, 8, 0, ]0), which is at first also anterior in position (ramus anterior of Ketzius), and is separated by a crest of bone from the other division below it, gives oft three branches, which proceed respectively to the utricle and the ampullse of the superior and external semicircular canals, entering the vestibular cavity in a group falciform orifice for orifices for vestibular division ridge facial nerve of eighth nerve apex of petrous tract, spi. foram. cent, canal of mo- diolus saccule orif. foram. vest, scala fossa for sing. tymp. ovalis nerve oj Fig. 120. -The petrosal sawn through in two planes, so as to show the extremity op the INTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS AND THE VESTIBULE. (Testut.) along the crista vestibuli. This superior division has a ganglion upon it whilst still within the internal auditory meatus {ganglion of Scarpa) and the ganglion-cells also extend for some distance along the branches within the canals in the bone. The inferior division on the other hand (ramus posterior of Retzius) (I), which is at first behind as well as below the' vestibular division, gives off, besides the cochlear branch which enters the cochlea by the tractus foraminulentus. a branch for the saccule—which enters the vestibule by a small group of foramina, opening at the bottom of the fovea hemispherica—and a branch for the posterior semicircular canal ; this is long and slender, and traverses a small passage in the bone (foramen singular e)^ behind the foramina for the nerve of the saccule. The part of the inferior division which gives the branches to the saccule and posterior canal is distinguished by Schwalbe as the ramus medius. The branch to the saccule also has a ganglion upon it within the meatus and that to the posterior semicircular canal a ganglion near its ending in the ampulla {ganglion of Corii), whereas the