ORGAN OF JACOBSON. ]43 The nerves ramify so as to form flattened tufts, the filaments of which, spreading out laterally and communicating freely with similar offsets on each side, form a close plexus, with elongated and narrow meshes. Fig. 162.—Nerves op the septum nasi, seen from the right side. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) § I, the olfactory bulb ; 1, the olfactory nerves passing through the foramina of the cribriform plate, and descending to be distributed on the septum ; 2, the internal or septal twig of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, naso-palatine nerves. In their structure the olfactory nerve-fibres differ much from the ordinary dark-bordered fibres of the cerebral and spinal nerves : they possess no medullary Fig. 163.—Nerves op the outer wall of the nasal fossjb. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) § 1, network of the branches of the olfactory nerve, descending upon the region of the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 2, external twig of the nasal nerve ; 3, sphenopalatine ganglion ; 4, ramification of the large palatine nerve ; 5, small, and 6, external palatine nerves ; 7, branch to the region of the inferior tur- binated bone ; 8, branch to the region of the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 9, naso-palatine branch to the septum cut short. sheath, but are axis-cylinders provided with a distinct nucleated sheath, much more distinct than that of the fibres of Eemak and with nuclei at less frequent intervals (fig. 164). The greater part of the mucous mem- brane of the nasal fossae is provided also with nerves of common sensibility, derived from branches of the fifth pair : the distribution of these has already been described. They appear to end amongst the epithelium cells in arborisations which have been noticed by several observers in preparations made by the silver chromate method. The Organ of Jacobson.—In the anterior and lower part of the nasal septum a small aperture may sometimes be seen opening obliquely on to the surface of the mucous membrane slightly above and in front of the orifice of the nasopalatine canal (see fig. 157). This aperture leads into a minute canal which passes backwards for a short distance along the septum to terminate blindly a few miliimeters from the orifice. The canal, which is lined with epithelium continuous with that of the