RECENT LITERATURE OF GUSTATORY ORGANS. 151 which is somewhat bulged, two processes extend. One, the peripheral, is nearly straight, and passes to the gustatory pore where it ends in a cilium-like projection, the taste-hair. The other process, the central one, passes towards the base of the flask : it may be fine and varicose, and is often bifurcated or even further branched, and, according to G. Eetzius and Lenhossek, it ends in a free extremity or extremities, and not, as was formerly thought, in continuity with the nerve-fibrils which pass to the taste-bud. Each taste-bud receives a small bundle of nerve-fibres, derived, at least in the case of those of the papillse vallatse, from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The nerve- Fig. 173.—Ending op nervk fibrks in and around taste-buds of RABBIT : GOLQI PREPARATION. (G. RetzklS.) .' fibres lose their medullary sheath as they enter the organ and are continued as axis-cylinders which end by ramify- ing amongst the gustatory cells (intrabulbar ramification, fig. 173, i) without, as has been just stated, coming into actual continuity with these cells. A number of nerve- fibrils also pass into the enclosing capsule of stratified epithelium and end by ramifying between the cells of that epithelium (peribulbar ramification, fig. 173, p). ^ These peribulbar nerves are believed to be nerves of general sensibility and not gustatory. Section of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves in young animals is followed by atrophy of the taste-buds after some time. The taste-buds of the anterior part of the tongue appear to be supplied by the chorda tympani nerve. RECENT LITERATURE OP THE GUSTATORY ORGANS. Arnstein, C, Die Nervenendigungen in den Schmeckbechern der Sanger., Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxxi., 1893. Drasch, O., Untersuchungen ilber die Papillce foliata?. und circumvallatai der Kaninchen und Feldhasen, Leipzig, 1887. Gmelin, Zur Morphologie der Papilla vallata und foliata, Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, xL, 1892. Hermann, Friedrich, Studien iiber den feineren Ban des Geschnackorgans, Erlangen, 1887 ; Sitzungsberichte der math.-physik. Klasse d. k. b. Akad. d. Wissensch., Miinchen, 1888. Honigschmied, J., Klcine Beitrage, betreffend die Anordnung der Geschmacksknospen bei den Saugethieren, Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftl. Zoologie, Band xlvii., 1888. Lenhossek, M. v., Der feinere Bau u. d. Nervenendigungen der Geschmaeksknospen, Anat. Anzeiger, viii. 1893. Niemack, J., Der nervose Apparat in den Endscheiben der Frosch-zunge, Anat. Hefte, 1892. Tuckerman, Frederick, Note on the papilla foliata and other taste areas of the pig, Anatom. Anzeiger, iii., 1888 ; Anatomy of the papilla foliata of the human infant, Journ. of Anat., vol. xxii., 1888 ; Observations on the structure of the gustatory organs of the bat, Journal of Morphology, 1888 ; On the gustatory organs of some Edentata, Internationale Monatsschrift fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, Band vii., 1890 ; The development of the gustatory organs in Man, Journal of Anatomy, 1889 ; Americ. Journal of Psychology, vol. iii., 1890 ; On the gustatory organs of some of the Mammalia, Journal of Morphology, vol. iv., 1890 ; Observations on some mammalian taste-organs, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol., 1891.