THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 10. j wall of the utricle is thickened, the thickening- having a concave surface towaids le interior of the utricle, and being covered by auditory epithelium (macula aats^ulrkuli). A small mass of calcareous particles (otoliths or otocoma) lies Fig. 116.—Otoliths. (From Schwalbe.) within the sac, attached to the macula. These otoliths are crystals of carbonate of lime, rhombic, octahedral, or six-sided, often pointed at their ex- ^ tremities (fig. 118). . . n The ends of all the membranous semicircular canals open into the utricle in the situations shown in the diagrams, and a fine canal (canalis utriculo- saccularis) passes from the antero-mesial wall of the utricle, which joins with another one from the saccule to form the ductus endo- bjmphaticus (fig, 116, d.e) (see below). The ampulla of the superior and external canals open into the roof of the recessus utrfcuH X part of the utricle where the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal opens S termed by G Retzius shins posterior, and the conjoined limbs of the superior and external o^St^sLs superior oi that author. In all vertebrates below mammals the^ utricle ITs a second macula acustica in its lower part near the sinus posterior (macula negleeta of Retzius). The smaller vesicle, the saccule (fig. 115, s ; fig. 117), is an irregularly oval vesicle about 3 mm. long and nearly 2 mm. broad, and is somewhat flattened from within out The saccule is situated in the lower and fore part of the cavity ot the osseous vestibule, close to the opening from the scala vestibuli of the cochlea and is received into the hollow of the fovea hemispherica, from the bottom of which many branches of nerve enter it, and here there is a similar broad and concave macula in its wall, which is covered by a small mass of otoliths. The upper end of the saccule bends round towards the recessus utriculi, with which it comes in contact, without direct communication (fig. 117). The saccule gradually narrows below into a short funnel-shaped duct (1 mm, lono- 0-5 mm. wide), the canalis reuniens of Hensen (fig. 115, c. r. ; fig. 117, 19), which passes downwards and outwards to open directly into the epithelial canal of the cochlea a short distance from its blind lower extremity. There is also, as already mentioned, a canal, lined with epithelium, which passes from the posterior wall of the saccule along the aqueductus vestibuli to end blindly m a dilated extremity (saccus endo-lymVliaticus, fig. 115, s.e.) on the posterior surface of he petrous bone just below the orifice of the aqueduct and lying m the tissue of the aura mater (Cotugno). This canal is joined near its origin by a minute tube from the utricle (fig. 117, 7), so that in this way the cavity of the saccule is brought into communication with that of the utricle (Boettcher). The membranous semicircular canals are from one-third to one-nlth the diameter of the osseous tubes in which they are lodged, and are dilated into ampullae within the ampullary enlargements of those tubes. In section they are oval or some- what elliptical (fig. 119). The ampullar measure from 2 mm. to 2'5 mm in length ; they are thicker and less translucent than the rest of the canals, and nearly fill their bony cases, the (membranous) ampullar being nearly three^ times the diameter of the canals. That part of each which is towards the concavity of the semicircle of the canal is free ; whilst the opposite portion is fixed to the wall of the bony canal; in the ampulla this part is flattened and receives branches of nerves and blood-vessels, and on its inner surface is a transverse projection (septum transversum) which partly divides the cavity into two, and broadens out somewhat at either end. The most prominent part of the septum, which is surmounted by the auditory