95 MOVEMENTS Ob1 AUDITORY OSSICLES. Movements of the auditory ossicles.—The malleus and incus move together round an axis extending backwards from the attachment of the malleus by its anterior ligament to the attachment of the short process of the mens posteriorly. _ Ihe handle of the malleus follows all the movements of the membrana tympani, and when the membrane is impelled inwards, the incus, moving inwards along with the malleus pushes the stapes inwards towards the internal ear. In this movement the head of the stapes is slightly raised as well as pressed inwards, and the upper margin of its base moves more than the lower. But the cavity of the inner ear is full of liquid ; and its walls are unyielding, except at the fenestra rotunda ; when, there- fore the stapes is pushed inwards, the secondary membrane of the tympanum, which blocks up the fenestra rotunda, must be bulged outwards. When the membrana tympani returns to its original condition these movements are reversed. That the movement inwards of the incus must closely accompany that of the malleus, is necessitated by the fact that the lower margin of its articular surface has a well Fig. 103. FlGURE 10 SHOW THE INTERLOCKING OF THE MALLEUS and incus. (Helmlioltz.) The line a b indicates the axis of rotation of the two bones, the line x y z joins this axis with the two ends of the crank lever which these bones form. body of incus head of malleus tooth of incus interlocking with tooth of malleus processus gracilis end of long process of incus marked projection which catches against the prominent border of the articular surface of the malleus (fig. 102, sp, and fig. 103). If, however, in consequence of increase of tension of the air in the tym- panum, the malleus should be moved too freely outwards, the incus need not follow that movement to its fall extent, but may merely glide over the smooth adjoining surface of the malleus, and thus the danger that there would otherwise be of forcibly dragging out the stapes from the fenestra ovalis is avoided (Helmholtz). The tensor tympani muscle, being attached near the base of the manubrium of the malleus, draws the whole bone and the membrane inwards, tightening the latter. Its action is opposed by the strong external ligament of the malleus. The tensor tympani exerts but little rotating action upon the malleus. The action of the stape- dius muscle is obviously to draw the head of the. stapes backwards, in doing which the hinder end of the base of that bone will be pressed against the margin of the fenestra ovalis, while the fore part will be withdrawn from the fenestra. The lining membrane of the tympanum.—The mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is further prolonged from the tympanum backwards into the mastoid cells. The malleus and incus are invested by the lining membrane of the outer wall of the cavity. The membrane forms also folds extending down from the roof in front of and behind the conjoined heads of the incus and malleus, and another passing down to the chorda tympani nerve or even below it ; these folds wholly or partially separate off small pouch-like portions of the tympanic cavity which will be further