THE EYE. 0 of conjunctiva, the plica semilunaris (fig. 1, Ps), which rests on the eyeball ; whilst occupying the recess of the angle at the border of this fold, is a spongy-looking reddish elevation (caruncula lacrimalis, Car) formed by a small isolated portion of skin containing a few large modified sweat glands, as well as a group of sebaceous glands which open into the follicles of very fine liairs. Then: is further found in it a small amount of plain muscular tissue (H. Miiller), as well as some cross-striated muscular fibres. A few plain muscular fibres are also to be found in the plica semilunaris. The plica semilunaris is the rudiment of the third eyelid (membrana nictitans) found in many animals ; and in some animals, and occasionally in man, the carun- cula lacrimalis retains its connection with the skin at the inner canthus. The muscular tissue of the nictitating membrane of animals, and presumably, therefore, of the semilunar fold of man, receives its nerve supply through the cervical sympa- thetic. In many animals, and occasionally in man (in the negro constantly, accord- ing to Griacomini), the plica semilunaris contains a plate of hyaline cartilage. Structure of the lids.—The skin covering the eyelids is thin and delicate, and covered with fine downy hairs (fig. 2, i, i). These are provided with sebaceous follicles ; small sweat-glands are also present. At the line of the eyelashes the skin joins the conjunctival mucous membrane which lines the inner surface of the lids. The cutis vera contains a number of ramified pigment cells, and pigment is also frequently found in the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, especially near the inner angle of the lids. Beneath the skin is a quantity of very loose connective tissue, entirely free from fat and containing the fasciculi of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle (b), and beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior surface is the lamina of dense connective tissue before mentioned, and known as the tarsus (e), or from its consistence, the tarsal cartilage, which thins off near the attached margin of the eyelid into the palpebral fascia connecting it with the margin of the orbit. In the tarsi are imbedded the Meibomian glands (/). In the upper eyelid there is, in addition, the insertion of the levator palpebrse superioris, attached to the upper or anterior surface of the tarsus by fibrous tissue and smooth muscular tissue (see below) and further sending a well-marked flat tendinous expansion, the bundles of which pass between the bundles of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and are attached to the skin of the middle of the eyelid (fig. 6). There is nothing corre- sponding to this in the lower lid, but the inferior rectus and oblique muscles send strands of fibrous tissue forwards to be attached to the tarsus and palpebral ligament. The orbicularis muscle is attached to the skin by loose subcutaneous connec- tive tissue, but glides loosely on the tarsal cartilages. A marginal fasciculus lies within the line of the eyelashes, separated by the bulbs of the lashes from the other fibres, and constituting the ciliary bundle or muscle of Eiolan (&')• The fibres of the orbicularis are very small and pale in colour. Its attachments have already been described in Vol. II., Part 2. The tarsi (tarsal cartilages) are two thin elongated plates formed of dense connective tissue, without any intermixture of cartilage-cells. They are placed one in each lid, to which they give shape and firmness. The upper one, the larger; is half oval in form, being broader near the centre and narrowing towards the angles of the lids. The lower is thinner, much narrower, and more nearly of a uniform breadth throughout. Their free edges, which are straight, are thicker than any other part. At the inner canthus they are fixed to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone by the internal tarsal slip ; and at the outer angle are attached to the malar bone by a fibrous band termed the outer tarsal ligament (Vol. II., p. 281). Groups of fat-cells are found in the tarsus both near its attached border and scattered over its anterior surface (Merkel).