82 THE EAB. one of the small bones of the tympanum, descends in contact with the inner suilace of the membrane, covered by mucous membrane, to a little below the centre where it ,s firmly fixed ; and, as this process of the bone is directed inwards the outer surface of the membrane is thereby depressed in a conical form (fig 102)' The membrana tympani is about O'l mm. thick, but at its insertion into the sulcus tympanicus it becomes thickened and firmly attached to the bone by a considerable accumulation of fibres (annulus fibrosus), and this thickened margin is ™ T H 7 16 SphleS °l ^ tympanic ring as two lentous bands which pass to the short process of the malleus, constituting the so-called anterior and postmor tympano-maUeolar folds or ligaments (fig. 92), and forming the lower boundary of he membrana flaccida (see below). Covering it externally is a prolongation of the itL ^ ? f 5 mtemally i8 a Prolongation of the mucous membrane hnrng the cavity of the tympanum 5 and between the two is the proper substance oi the membrane, composed of fibrous tissue. The greater number of the fibres radiate from the attachment of the handle of the malleus (fig. 91), but there are also circular fibres (fig. 90) which are situated within or mesially to the radial and near the circumference of the membrane, form a dense, almost ligamentous thickening. Besides these two sets of fibres there are others met with, especially l&V*^. Pig. 91.—View op the outer surface op the left mem- brana TYMPANI, AFTER REMOVAL OF THE CUTANEOUS LAYER (E. A. S. ) t The handle of the malleus is distinctly seen, and the long process of the incus appears as a faint light band parallel with and a little behind the handle of the malleus. The other light band nearly at right angles to the malleus is caused by the chorda tympani nerve. The notch of Rivinus is seen above the handle of the malleus. in the posterior half of the membrane, which are irregularly disposed and form at places prominent fibrous bands in and upon the mesial surface of the membrane (covered of course by the mucous mem- brane), and even extend here and there across part of the cavity of the tympanum. At the inser- tion of the malleus the membrane, especiallv its mtegumental layer, is thickened. The fibrous tunica propria here becomes con- tinuous with the periosteum of the malleus, but along the line of contact of the bone with the membrane there is generally a streak of cartilage forming the actual uniting tissue : a similar thin layer of cartilage may also be found along the opposite (free) border of the manubrium mallei, and also forming a complete cap to the end of the manubrium. In the thickening of the integumental layer above mentioned vessels and nerves to the membrane are seen in section. The epidermal layer is s ratified, as elsewhere m the external auditory meatus : it is also somewhat thickened along the malleolar line, and here small papillaa of the cutis project into it The radial fibres are not straight, but are slightly bowed outwards, so that between the most depressed point or umbo, and the attached border, the membrane is slightly convex outwardly. This shape is maintained by the annular fibres * At the upper and anterior part, the annular fibres stretch, as just related across the mouth of a small notch in the bony ring to which the membrane is attached (notch of.Rivinus) The notch is occupied by a lax membrane (membrana fiaccida, bhrapnell) (fig. 92), consisting of loose connective tissue, with vessels and nerves and covered by skin and mucous membrane. It occasionally happens that a fissure or perforation is to be detected at this place. The membrane is supplied with blood-vessels, but they are chiefly confined to the