131 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. total length of the organ. This relationship is expressed by the cephalometric nasal index ( greatest breadth x 100 \ Tfc .fl found fchat in the whifce raceg of man. Vlength measured vertically/ kind the nasal index is below 70 ; in the black races (African, Australasian) it is 85 and upwards : in the yellow races (Asiatic, American-Indians, Eskimo) from 70 to 85 (Topinard). The blood-vessels of the outer nose are branches of the ophthalmic and facial. The lymphatics pass to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The sensory nerves are branches of the first and second divisions of the fifth, and the motor nerves are derived from the facial. All of these have been already noticed in previous parts of this work. CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. These are the chief support of the outer part of the organ. They occupy the triangular interval seen in front of the nasal cavity in the dried skull (anterior nasal bone upper lateral cartilage cartilage of aperture, _j lateral crus cartilage of aperture, _ mesial crus minor cartilages Jvr— subcutaneous tissue of ala Fig. 149.—Lateral view of the cartilages op the nose. (Modified from Arnold.) nasal aperture), and assist in forming the septum between the nasal fossse. There are two large cartilages, one on each side, partly enclosing the aperture of the anterior nares, and known as the cartilages of the aperture or lower lateral cartilages, and one winged median cartilage which forms part of the septum nasi, and spreads externally and superiorly into two large flattened expansions which are commonly known as the upper lateral cartilages, and may conveniently be described separately, although part of the cartilage of the septum. The upper lateral cartilages (figs. 149 and 150) are situated in the middle part of the projecting portion of the nose, immediately below the free margin of the nasal bones. Each is flattened and triangular in shape, with one surface looking outwards, and the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. The anterior margin, K 2