141 OLFACTORY EPITHELIUM. is into a ciliated crypt. Here and there the epithelium of the surface, as shown by Max Schultze, is ciliated and not olfactory ; where this is the case, the ordinary racemose glands are found (Klein). On the other hand, Bowman's glands are not entirely confined to the olfactory mucous membrane, but may extend a short distance beyond it into the respiratory part of the fossa. The columnar cells on the surface of the olfactory mucous membrane (fig. 159, a) are prolonged at their deep extremities into a process which is generally somewhat Fig. 159.—Cells of the olfactory region. (M. Schultze.) Highly magnified. 1, from the frog ; 2, from man ; a, epithelial cell, extending deeply into a ramified process ; b, olfactory cells ; c, their peripheral pro- cesses ; e, their extremities, seen in 1 to be prolonged into fine hairs ; d, their central filaments. branched towards its deeper end. The nuclei of these cells are oval in shape and lie all at about the same level (zone of oval nuclei), i.e., in the deeper part of the columnar portion of each cell. The protoplasm of the columnar cells contains granules of yellowish-brown pig- ment. Amongst the branching central ends of these columnar cells there are a large number of peculiar spindle-shaped cells (fig. 159, b), each consisting of a large, clear, nearly spherical, nucleus surrounded by a relatively small amount of granular protoplasm. From each cell proceeds a superficial and a deep process. The superficial process (c) is a cylindrical or slightly tapering- thread passing directly to the surface, and terminating abruptly at about the same level as the free surface of the epithelial cells between which it lies, or a little beyond ; the deep process (d) is more slender, and passes vertically inwards. This last usually presents a beaded appearance similar to that observed in fine nerve- Fig. 160.—An olfactory cell, human, (v. Bruim.) n, central process prolonged as an olfactory nerve fibril; b, body of cell with nucleus ; p, peripheral process passing towards free surface ; c, knob-like clear termination of peripheral process ; h, bivnch of olfactory hairs. filaments. These cells were termed by Max Schultze, olfactory cells, to distinguish them from the columnar epithelium cells, which are much fewer in number, and which are entirely surrounded with the fine rod-like peripheral processes of the smaller cells. The nucleated bodies of the olfactory cells are several rows deep, and form a layer of considerable thickness beneath the columnar cells (zone of round nuclei). In the rabbit and guinea-pig Klein, in confirmation of a statement by Sidky, describes a lowermost layer of conical vertical cells resting by their bases upon the membrana propria. The total thickness of the olfactory epithelium in man is O'OG mm., whereas in macrosmatic mammals it is 0*1 mm. or more (v. Brunn). The olfactory (but not the columnar) cells are said to project through apertures in a cuticular lamina which bounds the mucous membrane superficially (external limiting membrane, v. Brunn). The existence of this cuticle has been, however, called in question by other observers. The peripheral process of the olfactory cell was observed by Schultze to be 71 h