29 THE CILIARY PROCESSES. On the inner surface of the tunica Ruyschiana is a structureless or finely fibrillated transparent membrane, the membrane of Bruch (fig. 29, a), which lies next to the pigmentary layer of the retina, and, especially anteriorly in the region of the ciliary processes, presents on its outer surface numerous microscopic reticulations. It tends to become thickened as age advances. The ciliary processes (corpus ciliare) have the same structure as the rest of the choroid ; but the capillary plexus of the vessels is less fine, and has meshes with chiefly a longitudinal direction ; and the ramified cells, fewer in number, are devoid of pigment towards the free extremities of the folds. The ciliary processes tissue of insertion of canal of canal of tissue of sclerotic. ciliary muscle. Schlemm. Schlemm. cornea. ciliary muscle. uveal pigment of iris. Fig. 36.—Section (from the eye of a man), showing the relations of the ciliary muscle to THE SCLEROTIC, IRIS, AND THE CAVERNOUS SPACES NEAR THE ANGLE OF THK ANTERIOR CHAMBER. (E. A. S.) The figure (which is copied from a photograph) includes only a small portion of the ciliary muscle, the fibres of which are seen to be converging to a point immediately anterior to the angle of the anterior chamber. Here they are attached through the medium of a tongue of fibrous tissue of the sclerotic (consisting mainly of circular bundles) to the outer part of the ligamentum pectinatum, which forms a loose tissue with open meshes lying between the canal of Schlemm and the anterior chamber. To the right of the figure the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum are seen to be gradually converging towards the posterior surface of the cornea, and somewhat beyond the part shown in this figure they merge into the membrane of Descemet. The communication of the canal of Schlemm, which is double in this section, with the cndothelial-lined spaces in the ligamentum pectinatum is seen, as also the communica- tions between the last named spaces and the anterior chamber. are penetrated for a certain distance by glandular invaginations of the pigmented epithelium which covers their free surface (Collins). These ciliary glands probably assist in the secretion of the aqueous humour. The blood-vessels of the ciliary processes (fig. 34, d) are very numerous ; they are derived from the anterior ciliary arteries and from the vessels of the fore part of