TI1K EYE. (ill Epithelium of the capsule.—At the back of the lens the fibres are directly in contact with the inner surface of the capsule, but in front they are separated from the latter by a single layer of cubical, polygonal, nucleated cells, which covers the whole anterior surface underneath the capsule. Towards the edge or equator of the lens the appearance and character of these cells undergo a change : they first gradually take on a columnar form, and then, becoming more and more elongated, present every transition to the nucleated lens-fibres of the superficial layers, into which they are directly continuous (see fig. 7G). After death a small quantity of fluid (liquor Morgagni) frequently collects between the back of the lens and the capsule : it appears to be derived from the lens-fibres. There is no epithelium in this situation as in front. Changes in the lens with age.—In the foetus, the lens is nearly spherical (fig. 77, a) : it has a slightly reddish colour, is not perfectly transparent, and is softer and more readily broken down than at a more advanced age. Fig. 77.—Side view op the lens at different ages. a, at birth with the deepest convexity ; b, in adult life with medium convexity ; c, in old age with considerable flattening of the curvatures. In the adult, the anterior surface of the lens is distinctly less convex than the posterior (fig. 77, b); and the substance of the lens is firmer, colourless, and transparent. In old age, it is more flattened on both surfaces (c); it assumes a yellowish or amber tinge, and is apt to lose its transparency and gradually to increase in toughness and specific gravity. AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS CHAMBER. The aqueous humour fills the space in the fore part of the eyeball, between the capsule of the lens with its suspensory ligament and the cornea. The iris, resting in part upon the lens, divides the aqueous chamber partially into two, named respectively the anterior and posterior chambers. This subdivision is incomplete in the adult, but in the foetus before the seventh month it is completed by the mein- brana pupillaris, which, by its union with the margin of the pupil, closes the aperture of communication between the two chambers. The anterior clmmber is limited in front by the cornea and behind by the iris, while opposite the pupil it is bounded by the front of the lens and its capsule. The posterior chamber lies behind the iris. It is continuous through clefts in the anterior part of the suspensory ligament of the lens with the triangular space intervening between the margiu of the lens, the anterior surface of the vitreous humour and the ciliary body (canal of Petit), and it sends prolongations or pouches between the zonula and the pars ciliaris retina?, as has already been described (p. G2). The aqueous humour is a clear watery fluid, in which a few leucocytes can sometimes be found. It is probably secreted mainly by the epithelium of the ciliary body and its glands, and by the epithelium covering the posterior surface of the iris. It finds exit through the clefts of the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, into the spaces of Fontana and thence into the canal of Schlemm and the venous system of that region, and in part into lymph-spaces in the iris, and thence to the perichoroideal lymph-space. 0 Q {I