THE RAH. 74 seen to be attached by fibrous tissue to the rough and prominent margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The tubular part is cleft in front between the tragus and fore-part of the helix inwards to the bone, the deficiency being filled with fibrous membrane. The whole cartilage may be looked upon as an elongated plate, the lower part of which is folded round in front so as to bring it nearly into contact with the upper part. There is no cartilage in the lobule except at its base, where the caudal process of the ear-cartilage passes into it: otherwise it contains only fat and tough connective tissue. Behind the prominence of cartilage which forms the antitragus Is a deep notch separating it from the helix. Behind and below this the ear-cartilage forms a tail-like process descending towards the lobule {caudalprocess). At the fore part of the pinna opposite the first bend of the helix, is a small conical projection of the cartilage,' called the spine of the helix, to which the anterior ligament is attached. Behind this process is a short vertical slit in the helix ; and on the surface of the tragus is a similar but somewhat longer fissure. A deep fissure {incisura termmalis, Schwalbe) passes back between the commencement of the helix and the tube of the ear, and eminentiafossce cminentia triangularis scaphce sulcus anthelicix transversus incisura Santorini fossa anthciicis cminentia concha; . sulcus cruris helicis ponticulus (insertion of post-auricular muscle) processus posterior 10. processus caudalis processus triangularis incisura terminalis Fig. 82.—Ear-cartilage, mesial aspkct. (Schwalbe.) another passing outwards and backwards from the deep end of the longitudinal cleft separates the pare forming the tragus from the rest of the tube, so that the tube is continuous with the pinna only by means of a narrow isthmus. Other irregular gaps or fissures partially divide the cartilaginous tube transversely. These deficiencies are termed Jissures of Santorini They are usually two in number. These and the other named recesses and prominences of the ear-cartilage are shown in the accompanying figures, and do not require to be further described. The substance of the cartilage is very pliable, and is covered by a firm fibrous perichondrium. Near its attachment to the bone it becomes hyaline. Ligaments.—Of the ligaments of the pinna, the most important are two, which assist m attaching it to the side of the head. The anterior ligament, broad and strong, extends from the spine of the helix to the root of the zygoma The posterior ligament fixes the back of the auricle (opposite the concha) to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres attach the tragus also to the root of the zygoma. Ligamentous fibres are likewise placed across the nssures and intervals left in the cartilage (intrinsic ligamentsX