02 THE em:. the pigment is often detached from these processes. Over the intervals between the ciliary processes the zonula is, however, less closely applied to the pars ciliaris retime, so that a series of peaches, narrowing posteriorly and widening anteriorly, where they communicate with the posterior chamber, become left between zonula and ciliary body (recesses of the posterior chamber, Kuhnt). It is into these recesses that the ciliary glands (see p. 55) open. The recesses are occupied by aqueous humour, and traversed by fibres belonging to the zonula of Zinn, which serve to attach the outer surface of that membrane to this portion of the pars ciliaris retinae : they are also partly subdivided by small subsidiary folds of the ciliary body which project into the recesses. Opposite the most prominent part of the ciliary body the zonula gives off bundles of fibres which pass meridionally inwards towards the margin of the lens, some reaching and extending a short distance over its anterior surface, others just reaching its posterior surface, and others again occupying inter- mediate positions at the margin (fig. 70). They are all firmly cemented to the lens- capsule. Those which pass anteriorly originate mainlyfrom the part of the zonula which lies in the intervals between the ciliary processes: they form a radially fibrous mem- Fig. 71.—View from before op the canal of Petit inflated (from Sappey). The anterior parts of the sclerotic, choroid, iris and cornea having been removed, the remaining parts are viewed from before, and the canal of Petit lias been inflated with air through an artificial opening. 1, front of the lens ; 2, vitreous body ; 3, outer border of the canal of Petit; 4, outer part of the zonule of Zinn ; 5, appearance of sacculated dilatations of the canal of Petit. branous layer, but it is not quite complete, for coloured injection can be easily made to pass from the interstices between the lens capsule and the ciliary body into the aqueous humour and vice versa. The clefts in it are fine enough, however, to retain air if blown into this interstice : if this be done after removal of the whole vitreous body (a removal which can be easily effected in an eye which has been left for a day or two at the ordinary atmospheric temperature), the interstices which correspond with the eminences of the ciliary processes are most distended, and the appearance of a sacculated canal (canal of Petit), encircling the lens, is produced as in fig. 71. The canal which is thus artificially produced is bounded behind by the part of the hyaloid membrane which covers the front of the vitreous humour, and in front by the imperfect membrane above alluded to as formed by the fibres of the zonula which are passing to the anterior surface of the lens margin. Since these fibres spring most abundantly from the part of the zonula which is opposite the intervals between the ciliary processes, the membrane is as it were tied down at those intervals and can only be distended between them; hence the sacculated aspect of the so-called canal. Berger states that in the foetus the anterior free surface of the zonula is covered with a layer of endothelial cells which disappears by birth. As just stated, in addition to this anterior membranous prolongation of the zonula, other fibres, more scattered in their disposition, pass at intervals across to the periphery of the lens, some being attached to the extreme edge, others coming into continuity with the posterior capsule, and others again occupying intermediate positions (fig. 70). Those which pass to the posterior surface of the lens capsule and to the extreme edge of the lens are stated to come for the most part from the part of the zonula which overlies and is adherent to the most prominent portion of the ciliary body, and these fibres therefore partially cross in direction those which are coming from the depressions and passing to the anterior surface.