133 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. fore part, the separation between the nasal fossa?. The anterior margin of the cartilage, thickest above, is firmly attached to the back of the nasal bones near their line of junction ; and below this it lies successively between the upper and the lower lateral cartilages, united with the former, which constitute its ate, and connected loosely by fibrous tissue with the latter. The posterior margin is fixed to the lower and fore part of the central plate of the ethmoid bone (e) ; and the lower margin is received into the groove of the vomer (v), and rests anteriorly on the incisor crest of the superior maxilte. This cartilage is the persistent anterior extremity of the primordial cartilaginous lamina ethmovomerine suture pendicular } J i i ! sinus of sphenoid v proc. post, cart, septi palate cartilage of septum cartilage of aperture cartilage of Jacobson Fig. 152.—Osseous and cartilaginous septum of the nose, seen from the side. (Arnold.) cranium. In young subjects it is prolonged back to the body of the pre-sphenoid bone ; and in many adults an irregular thin band remains between the vomer and the central plate of the ethmoid (processus posterior s. sphenoidalis, fig. 152). The vomerine cartilages (Huschke) or cartilages of Jacobson, are two small longitudinal strips of cartilage which lie along the lower border of the cartilage of the septum, attached to the vomer. They are not always distinct from the cartilage of the septum and are relatively better developed in the embryo and in many of the lower mammals conformably with the greater extent of development of the organ of Jacobson (see p. 143), which, in some animals, they partly enclose. NASAL FOSSAE. The nasal fossae are, as already stated, the cavities which occupy the interior of the nose and effect a communication between the exterior and the pharynx. They have been described in Vol. II. as they exist in the skeleton, but they are much narrower in the living condition owing to the thickness and vascularity of the lining membrane, which also covers over many of the apertures seen in the macerated