140 THE NOSE. and the remainder is divisible into two parts, viz., the upper or olfactory region in which the epithelium is non-ciliated and columnar, and the lower or respiratory region in which, as also in the sinuses, it is ciliated and columnar. The membrane in the respiratory part covers the middle and inferior turbinate and all the lower portions of the fossro, and is studded with racemose glands, which open by orifices apparent on the surface. They arc most numerous about the middle and hinder parts of the nasal fossas, and are largest at the back of the septum near the floor of the nasal cavity. Glands which are much smaller and less numerous are stated to open into the several cavities which communicate with the nasal fossse, but many observers have failed to find them. Besides the glands the mucous membrane of the fossEe contains a variable amount of lymphoid tissue, occasionally accumulated into " nodules." In some parts large venous plexuses are found, encircled, as well as the alveoli of the glands amongst which they lie, by bundles of plain muscular fibres (Klein), thus forming a sort of cavernous tissue. Olfactory mucous membrane.—The olfactory region, or that in which the olfactory nerve is distributed, includes in man only the uppermost part of the fossae Fig. 158.—Section op the olfactory mucous membrane. (Cadiat.) a, epithelium ; b, glands of Bowman ; c, nerve-bundles. (superior turbinal and corresponding part of the septum). It is extremely vascular, a close plexus of large capillary vessels being found under the lining membrane throughout its whole extent. Its mucous membrane is covered by a very thick non-ciliated epithelium, and it is more delicate in consistence than that of the ciliated region, being indeed soft and pulpy. It has a distinct yellow colour in man (locus luteins) ; brown in some animals ; the colour may extend however beyond the true olfactory part of the mucous membrane. The glands of this region (glands of Boivman) are numerous, and are of a more simple structure than those in the lower part of the fossae. They open by fine ducts lined with flattened cells which extend to the surface between the olfactory epithelium cells (fig. 158). In the mucous membrane itself, the gland-tube is somewhat convoluted and enlarged, and it may have one or two branches. It is limited throughout by a basement membrane, and lined and almost filled with columnar or polyhedral secreting cells. These are of the " serous " type in man, but in some mammals there are " mucous " cells intermingled with the serous (Paulsen). The gland-cells contain yellowish brown pigment. In man the gland-ducts frequently open into a small sub-epithelial receptacle lined with flattened epithelium, from which a fine tube passes to the surface between the epithelium cells. Occasionally the opening