THE AUDITORY OSSICLES. 91 era, of os orbiculare sen lenticulare, described as a separate bone, which indeed it nriainallv is in the foetus up to the sixth month. The ent h of the short process is about 3 to 3^ mm., of the ong process about 4| mm. The weight of the incus is very nearly the same as that of the malleus (Blake). At the ioints between the incus and malleus on the one hand and the incus and stapesi on rtptJhei^the articular surfaces are tipped with cartilage and enclosed by a synovial membrane. RMmter tscribes both in this jointand in the articulation of the incus with the stapes an Sf^unta^oortiliige which subdivides the joint into two parts ; but according to iSe^ther are synovial joints but are symphyses, the articular cartilages being; united STbrous tSsue. At all events the existence of an particular cartilage at the joint between incus and stapes is doubtful, although most authorities admit its presence at the joint between Z maSeus and incus. Some anatomists describe a synovial joint at the articulation of the short process of the incus with the bone at the entrance to the mastoid cells. The stapes (figs. 99, 100), the third and innermost bone of the ear, is in shape remarkably like a stirrup, and is composed of a head, a base, and two crura I he whole bone measures 3 to 4 mm. in length and about 2} mm. m breadth Its weight is from 2 to 4 milligrams. The head (h) is directed outwards, and has on Its end a slight depression, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the lenticular process of the incus. The base (b) is a plate of bone fitting into pig_ 99._Left stapes, viewed from below. Magnified four times. (E. A. S.) k outer extremity or head of the bone, with a shallow concavity for articulation with the orbicular process of the incus; c, constricted part or cervix. This is not always so well-marked as in the present specimen cr a, anterior cms; cr p, posterior cms ; h, base ; a, arch of. the stapes. The bony groove which bounds the arch is shown in front and below ; above and behind it is concealed from view. the fenestra ovalis, but not quite closely, so that a slight amount of movement is allowed. Its form is irregularly oval, the upper margin being curved, while the lower is nearly straight (fig. 90, st). Its border is encircled by hyaline cartilage, which also covers its vestibular surface. The margin of the fenestra ovalis has also a coverino- 0f the same tissue (Toynbee), and the opposed cartilaginous surfaces are closelv connected by a network of elastic fibres passing between them, and forming an especially dense ligamentous band near the tympanic and vestibular cavities (RudinRer) The crura of the stapes diverge from a constricted part {neck, fio- 99 c) of the bone, situated close to the head, and are attached to the outer surface' of the base near its extremities. The anterior crus (cr. a) is the shorter and strai-hter of the two. The crura, with the base of the stapes, encircle a small triangle or arched space (a), across which in the recent state a thm membrane is stretched. A shallo'w groove runs round the opposed surfaces of the arch, and into this the membrane is received. The formation and morphological relations of the auditory ossicles have already been noticed in the Embryology (Vol. I., p. 167, et Suffice it here to recall the fact that Jhe Scu anVmaUeus^re odginallylaid down as one piece of cartilage, which is continued tw"rds aas Meckel's cartilage" along the first visceral arch and that ^ ossification in cartilage which develops around an artery (stapedial or mandibulai-liaser, SaC£wafoh arises from the internal carotid, and passing into the tympanum through the wdHfto c^id canal, ascends over the promontory and anastomoses with branches of the Jy o-mastoid, -middle meningeal, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. In ™™^™e*J^ artery remains, but it has usually disappeared before birth. In some Insectivora, Rodentia) it persists in the adult. In these cartilaginous foundations of the auditory ossicles the formation of the individual bones occurs m the maimer the separation and articulation between the malleus and incus appears m the thud month of embryonic life; the cartilaginous continuity between the malleus and Meckel s cartilage dSappears somewhat later, and its place is taken partly by ligamentous tissue (forming the