2^ Reprinted from the " Lancet "for 10th January, 1879.] ONE YEAR'S SURGICAL OPERATIONS IN THE WESTEEN INFIRMAEY, GLASGOW. BY ALEXANDER PATTERSON, M.D., Surgeon and Lecturer on Clinical Surgery. % c At the meeting of the British Medical Association held in Cork, in the month of August last, Mr. Savory, of St. Bartholomew's, delivered a most eloquent and interesting address on the Prevention of Blood-poisoning in the Practice of Surgery. In the course of his address he made some pointed remarks regarding the absence of statistics from those who practise Lister's method. With much diffidence I take up the glove, and, in the following short paper, shall endeavour to give, on a limited scale, one year's operative work, carried through on the antiseptic principle; and by that is here meant, the Listerian plan of treatment without any change or fancied improvement. Three small surgical wards, always kept scrupulously clean and thoroughly ven- tilated—two for males and one for females—on the upper floor of the hospital, are placed under my charge. The beds number only nineteen, although fi-equently they contain twenty patients. The following is a list of the operations, performed on resident patients only, during the twelve months extending from 31st October, 1878, till 1st November, 1879.2 Summmij of Operatiom on Resident PatieiUs. Nature of Operation. Number. Deatl ^lQf^irt^■ATnv ... ... Vyoto'JLwiu y ••• ••• •■• 32 TjitHntomv ... ... • •. 3 TTpTTiiohnni V ... ... 5 2* XCtAiS *•• 2 (^vftriotoTiiV . . ... ... V cvx xw uvyjuiA j ... 4 '. 1 + Ligature of Arteries 2 A mnntjifirm at liin-ioillfc . ... 1 li 3 jj ankle 3 nnnftr arm ... ... 1 y f nVAn VTTl 1 Exciaion of knee-joint 1 p1 Hnw-i m n t, yy K^LUKJ W — JUlUw ... . . • 2 6 TnaTTlTTlfl 6 mnmrnnT'V tiTmmiT* yy XllnXU IXXtXL J \J Lllll*-' U 1 • . . 2 ^^X\jXX^XX\jXXX<X • • • ... 5 1.: yy OCui. ^1-1-1 i-KJ ... ... 1 yy UO UCUIXICV • • • . • • 3 J, pterus 1 1*: 2 Cyst of Ifibiuni pudendi 1 TTrarliPotnniv . . . 1 IG XVClllUVfll Ul LlCClLl UUilC ... ... 14 E-adical cure of hydrocele ... 2 Xl.»^ljLi Wl 1 liU LUo 1 CliJLU V ... ••• .~) X ioULlltX 111 (ILLU ... ... ... s Vesico-vpLP"ina,l "fistnlrii 3 \ CJastrati Oil 4 "Plymtif* nnpvnt.irin aw TiPvinpiTm -L J.CIO ULVy W IJCX (mvXKJlX. \jXX LICx JliJlC LI 1X1 ... 1 Closure of vagina ... 1 — Tenotomy 4 — tJOlIlto OpcHcll ... ... ... 2 Circumcision 1 Dislocations 4 Harelip... 1 Resection of fracture 1 Uterine polypi removed 2 Condylomata removed 1 Attempted closure of artificial anus ... 1 Removal of cuboid and part of astragalus 2 Operation for contracted mouth 1 162 7 " Collapse. -I- Peritonitis. X Shock. {i Operation performed for very acutely destructive disease of elbow-joint ia n girl of nineteen. Vomiting set in soon after operation, and continued until death, four days afterwards. Sank exliausted. No post-'mnrt^m allowed. II Shock. Large tumours over spine in infant. ir Prolonged shock and cxiiaustion.3 No case of erysipelas occurred during the year, and since the wards were opened, four yeai'S ago, there has not been a single case of pyeemia. In addition to the above, thex'e were 162 persons treated as out-door patients, upon whom 86 operations were per- formed without any unfavourable result. Many of these, under the old plan of treatment, must have been taken into the house, thus taking up beds required for graver cases. Want of space compelled us, and the antiseptic treatment enabled us, to treat them as out-door patients. This fact is of very great importance, and is one of the greatest advan- tages of the Listerian method. From 31st October, 1877, till 1st November, 1878, there were:— lu-door patients admitted ... ... ... 234 Operations performed ... ... ... ... 119 Deaths ... ... ... ... ... 6 And the first five items were as follows (Glasgow Medical Journal, July, 1879):— No. Deaths. Nepkrotomy ... ... ... ... 1 ... 0 Osteotomy ... ... ... ... 6 ... 0 Herniotomy ... ... ... ... 5 ... 0 Ligature of femoral ... ... ... 3 ... 0 Amputation of thigh ... ... ... 9 ... 1 Remarks. Herniotomy.—The cutting operation for strangulated hernia I have performed seventy-nine times, and have always opened the sac. We can never be certain that adhesions do not exist within the sac, nor can we form an accurate opinion as to the state of the intestines. In a case of small, acutely strangulated femoral hernia, we may have gangrene in half-a-dozen hours, whilst in an old protrusion strangled in an old man (oblique inguinal, I mean) as many days may possibly elapse, and yet the bowel may retain its vitality. It is never the operation, when properly per- formed, which kills the patient, but the delay which takes place in seeking assistance.4 Osteotomy.—In the thirty-two operations, forty corn- pound fractures were made, and Mr. Savory will admit that neither he nor any of his colleagues has had the good fortune to treat, in one year, so many compound fractures without some untoward complicatioas. No doubt the patients' ages ranged from ten to thirty-one years, the best period of life for recovery from injuries, and no doubt, also, there was little or no injury done to the soft parts. Still the fact remains that nearly all those limbs were put up immediately after the operation, and never disturbed or looked at for some weeks, when bones and skin wounds were found united, the dressing not being once changed. Many compound fractui-es from accident can be treated in a similar manner; and will any surgeon venture to affirm that a mode of dressins: which ensures perfect rest to the fragments from the beginning to the end of the case, which does away Avith all constitutional disturbance, and which ensures the patient from all risk of erysipelas or pytemia, is not superior to any plan of treat- ment hitherto practised ? Vesico-vaginal fistula outside the vagina.—The patient, a married woman, aged forty-nine, suffered for years fi-om prolapsus of the pelvic viscera, for the support of which she had been recommended to wear a metal pessary. This she continued to wear for about a year, when pain in the lower part of the abdomen compelled her to remove it, and on doing so the protrusion at once recurred. On examina- tion, a curious state of matters is presented; a tumour larger than a child's head hangs between the thighs ; the growth has a covering like skin, with patches of ulceration here and there, while on its anterior aspect there is to be seen a transverse opening, an inch and a half in length, through which urine constantly trickles. On introducing a catheter by the urethra, instead of passing up behind the .symphysis pubis, it turned downwards in front of the tumour, and its tip could be passed out of the opening. On introducing the finger into the rectum, it was carried down the posterior side of the mass, thus showing thatthe entire proti-usion consisted' of the rectum behind, the bladder in front, with the uterus between. The pessary- had eaten its way through the posterior wall of the bladder. The fistula was cured by two operations, and by another the edges of the vaginal orifice were pared, after returning the protrusion, and brought together by deep and superficial sutures. Union was entirely satis- factory. Removal of utei^s for fihro-cystic disease.—Mrs. B , aged thirty-two, observed for the last five years a gradually growing tumour in the abdomen. During the last twelve months the growth has increased more rapidly. On open- ing the abdomen, a tumour, not unlike a football in size, shape, and appearance, presented itself To the touch it gave the idea of a very thick walled cyst containing fluid, and was adherent to the parietal peritoneum, nearly ascend- ing to the border of the liver, also glued to the small intestines, while below it sprang from the uterine mass by a pedicle as thick as the forearm. The cyst was tapped, giving escape to a quantity of glairy fluid, after which, the globular shape being still retained, the trocar wound was enlarged, the hand introduced, and the semi-solid contents broken up and removed. The pedicle was then transfixed, tied, and severed close to the enlarged uterus. The latter was now observed to be filling the true pelvis, and was jammed in the transverse diameter of the brim. By placing the hand on the anterior and posterior surface, I was enabled to rotate the uterus slightly, and to draw it upwards, then to transfix and divide the thickened cervix. In dressing the case I employed, for the first time, Dr. Keith's drainage tube, and much regret that I was unfamiliar with its management. It was removed on the fourth day, and probably taken away too early. The poor woman made a hard and prolonged struggle for life. Her temperature never rose above 101°; as one of my colleagues said, " She had not strength enough to get up a temperature." She died on the eighth day, and post-mortem examination revealed only very slight traces of inflammation in the6 neighbourhood of the abdominal wound, while about an ounce of blood clot, entirely unchanged, lay in the bottom of the pelvis. She appeared to have died from prolonged shock. Ovariotomy.—In the fatal case many adhesions existed, and death occurred from peritonitis. Tracheotomy.—This case occurred in an infant thirteen months old, who, when creeping along the kitchen floor, contrived to lay its hands on a phial containing a small quantity of oil of vitriol, of which it sucked apparently only a small portion, when it dropped the bottle. The mother found the child lying in great distress, with face red and congested, struggling for breath and attempting to vomit. A few hours after the accident it was taken to the infirmary, and tracheotomy performed by my late assistant, Mr. T. B. Adam. The case progressed favourably, and, as the baby was able to swallow next morning, it seems probable that none of the acid passed into the oesophagus. Dislocations.—One of the dislocations was the rare posterior displacement of the humerus, with the head of the bone lying on the dorsum of the scapula, below the spine. It was of six months' duration, and the head of the bone could be seen distinctly from behind, and felt rotating under the hand on moving the arm about. The patient, a child a trifle over six months old, held its arm a little from the side and carried forwards: the hand was so turned that the palmar surface looked backwards, exactly in the position in which a swimmer places his arm and hand when giving the stroke. The movements of the arm in relation to the body were very free, the hand always tending towards pronation. The arm could not, without difliculty, be carried backwards beyond the middle line of the body, and the upper arm was, of course, shortened. Reduction was effected with comparative ease, but after six weeks' trial the head of the bone always returned to its ab- normal position. Dr. Knox, one of ray colleagues, gives, in the Glasgow Medical Journal for this month, a most interesting account of two cases of the same rare variety7 of dislocation, which came under his notice within a period of three months at the dispensary. Removal of cuboid and 'portion of astragalus.—This operation was performed in strongly pronounced talipes varus, for which the tendons had been twice cut, and boots worn for some years with little improvement. The operations were successful, and, small as they may seem, would not, I am inclined to think, be readily undertaken by those who follow the old method of treatment. Statistics for the tzvelve months:— Patients admitted ... ... ... ... 280 Operations performed ... ... ... ... 162 Deaths ... ... ... ... ... 7 Death-rate per cent ... ... ... ... 4'3 Days resident ill hospital of each patient... ... 24'7 Percentage of operations to each bed ... ... 8"7 Beds ... ... ... ... ... 19 Cost of -wine and spirits for each patient per annum 7^d. The total number of operations performed by the four surgeons of St. Bartholomew's for 1878, with their results, according to the Report, are— Operations. Deaths. Death-rate. 458 ... ... 44 ... ... 9-6 Omitting, " for various reasons," as Mr. Savory does in his address, operations involving the peritoneum, the results are as follow:— Operations. Deaths. Death-rate. 416 ... ... 22 ... ... 5-28 Dr. Patterson's wards in Western Infirmary, twelve months:— Operations. Deaths. Death-rate. 162 ... ... 7 ... ... 4-3 Leaving out, " for various reasons," the peritoneal operations, we get— Operations. Deaths. Death-rate. 150 ... ... 3 ... ... 2 I shall not refer to the quantity of stimulants consumed in St. Bartholomew's further than to say, that some time ago the registrar was written to, asking for a few details on8 this and other matters, and hitherto no reply has been vouchsafed. Operations per bed per annvm.—Let any one conversant with hospital work think for a moment of the difference as to the probability of blood-poisoning occurring in 8t. Bar- tholomew's, where so few operations are . performed in proportion to the number of beds, and where erysipelas and pypemia prevail, compared with small, crowded wards, con- taining only nineteen beds, with frequently fifteen to seven- teen cases operated on in them. All former experience would lead us to expect epidemic outbreaks of blood- poisoning in the latter, yet they never appear. As Mr. Savory issued the challenge, he will, I trust, pardon me remarking that the antiseptic system has enabled one, with only nineteen beds under his charge, to perform more than one-third as many operations in twelve months as the entire surgical staff of St. Bartholomew's Hospital in the same period, with nearly four hundred beds at their command. Taking into account the number of operations, the low death-rate, the number of beds, and the small quantity of stimulants used, as a year's operative work, the foregoing has probably never been surpassed in any general hospital. The credit must be ascribed to a system of treatment which enables us to perform operations and to achieve results of which our predecessors never dreamed—a method of treat- ment which has revolutionised surgery, and which entitles its author to rank among the greatest benefactors of our common race. India Street, Glasoow, Nov. 1879. OTiASGOW: PRINTBD BY AIiKX. MACD01I0AI.L^1 I