ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 26 CHAPTER IV. CONNECTIVE-TISSUE CORPUSCLES. The great bulk of tissue which for many organs—glands, nerve trunks, vessels, muscle, &c.—serves as the supporting and connecting substance, while in others,—serous and synovial membranes, tendons and fasciae, skin and mucous membranes,—it forms the ground-substance, is composed of what is ordinarily called common or fibrous- connective tissue. With elastic tissue, cartilage, and bone, it represents the great group of ‘ connective tissues,’ all these being in morphological and histogenetical respects intimately connected with one another. In the present chapter we shall have to deal only with the cellular elements found in fibrous connective tissue. They are of two kinds : A. migratory or wandering connective-tissue cells (v. Recklinghausen), and B. fixed connective-tissue cells, or connective-tissue corpuscles par excellence. A. The migratory connective-tissue cells are the amoeboid cells found in fibrous connective-tissue ; they are protoplasmic cells, just like colourless blood-corpuscles, with one, two, or three nuclei; they also resemble them in size. In connective-tissue of loose arrangement, e.g. subcutaneous and submucous tissue, they are more numerous than in parts of a denser structure. They are found more numerous in connective tissue which is richly supplied with blood-vessels, e.g. the connective-tissue in and around glands and muscle. In the superficial parts of the corium and mucosa and the cornea, they are found more often than in the deeper parts of these organs. Under inflammatory conditions the connective-tissue contains great numbers of migratory cells —pus cells,—many of which are however derived from colourless blood-corpuscles that have emigrated from the vessels (Cohnheim). But of course it is impossible to distinguish the one from the other. If pigment matter, such as vermilion or carmine, is injected into the circulating blood in a finely divided state, some pigment granules are taken up by colourless blood- corpuscles, others not, and these may find their way into the connective-tissue of different regions, being carried through the wall of the capillary vessels by the natural current that passes from the latter into the surrounding tissue ; here they (pigment granules) may be taken up by migratory connective-tissue cells and through these may be distributed to distant regions. But the pigment-granules may be carried through the walls of