ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 240 we find even a greater or smaller part of a lacuna of this lymph-canalicular system ex- tending into the membrane. c) Underneath the basement membrane is the mucosa ; this consists of a superficial and deep section. The former is a reticulated structure, being composed of a meshwork of thin fibre bundles, and between them lymphoid cells and flattened connective-tissue cells, each with an oval flattened nucleus. In some places, the just-named meshwork is like adenoid reticulum, and the mucosa appears then similar to diffuse adenoid tissue. The small lacunae of the meshwork are connected with one another by narrower or broader channels, and contain both the flattened connective-tissue corpuscles and the lymphoid cells ; that is to say, they completely resemble the lymph-canalicular system of other connective tissues. The deep section of the mucosa is a thin stratum of a network of longitudinal elastic fibres, between which lie connective-tissue corpuscles and capillary blood-vessels. d) The submucous tissue is loose connective tissue containing the glands, fat tissue and the larger blood-vessels and lymphatics, and the nerve trunks. The glands are mucus-secreting glands, forming a more or less continuous layer. Their structure is in all respects similar to that of the glands of the larynx; the contrast between the two conditions under which the epithelial cells lining the alveoli appear is very easily ascertained. In the human trachea we meet with many alveoli, belongingto the same gland, which are either lined with ‘ mucous ’ cells or with ‘ granular ’ epithelial cells. As in the larynx, so also here we meet occasionally (especially in cat and dog) a gland tube lined with mucous cells, and outside these are ‘ crescents ’ of granular cells similar to those of the submaxillary gland of dog (see Chapter XXIV.). The duct, and also part of the gland, is in some places embedded in, or surrounded by, a lymph follicle. The trabeculae of connective tissue of the submucosa are continuous both with the perichondrium of the cartilage rings and with the tissue between the free ends of these latter—that is, the membranous part of the trachea. Here we find also groups of bundles of unstriped muscle tissue extending in a transverse (circular) direction between the extremities of the cartilage rings. Occasionally we find outside these in addition longitudinal muscle bundles ; they are not so numerous in man as in some (carnivorous) animals (Verson). The mucous glands above mentioned extend not only in amongst the muscle coat, but some are placed even outside the latter. The outer boundary of the trachea is formed by a layer of fibrous-connective tissue. As regards the distribution of blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, the same rela- tions exist as in the larynx.