ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 112 3) Between the layer of Purkinje’s cells and the white matter is a broad layer, the nuclear layer. This contains a network of minute fibrils (Stieda, and Denissenko) continuous with, and similar in structure to, the nerve network of the cortex, and a great number of spherical nuclei, to which various investigators ascribe a totally different nature. While some (Kolliker, Gerlach) regard them as belonging to neuroglia cells, others (Henle, Merkel) describe them as lymph corpuscles, and still others (Stilling) as minute multipolar ganglion cells. Denissenko distinguishes amongst them nuclei that belong to Deiters’ or neuroglia cells, then nuclei that pertain to cells of a special nature, and nuclei indicative of small ganglion cells. The ‘ nuclei dentati ’ of the cerebellum contain, just like the olivary bodies, a matrix of fine nerve network and slender multipolar ganglion cells. The ‘ nuclei ’ of Stilling, situated near the nuclei dentati, are distinguished from these latter by the greater size of their ganglion cells. The substance of the brain and cerebellum is rich in blood-vessels. Those of the grey matter pass from the pia (or vice versa) in a more or less vertical and oblique direction and anastomose into an uniform network. Those of the white matter form a network, the meshes of which are pre-eminently longitudinal. The vessels lie in- vaginated in lymph channels, perivascular lymphatics of His. Between the vascular adventitia and the neuroglia boundary of the perivascular channel extend numerous neuroglia fibrils. The pericellular lymph spaces, mentioned above as surrounding the ganglion cells and their processes, anastomose with the perivascular lymph channels (Lewis). The hypophysis cerebri and the pineal gland will be considered in a future chapter, in connection with several other organs, as the suprarenal capsule and coccygeal gland, whose structure and function are not well known. PLATE XXI. Fig. I. Vertical section through the grey matter of the cerebral hemisphere of dog, as seen under a low power. On the left side is the superficial layer of the cortical grey matter. Owing to the low power the small ganglion cells and the neuroglia cells in it are not visible. A blood-vessel is seen passing from the surface into this layer. Next follows a layer of small ganglion cells, then a broad layer of ganglion cells, gradually increasing in size—‘ formation of the cornu Ammonis,’ Meynert. The * granular forma- tion ’ of small cells, viz. the fourth layer in the human cortex, and the fifth layer of spindle-shaped cells, is not visible here. The ganglion cells in this and the next following figure are in so far of a peculiar