CHAPTER XXXIV. THE EYELIDS, THE CONJUNCTIVA, AND THE LACHRYMAL GLANDS. The skin of the eyelids does not differ in structure in any material respect from that of other delicate parts of the general integument. The corium is very thin, the papillae very small, and the subcutaneous tissue exceedingly loose and containing very numerous and wide lymphatics. A few groups of fat-cells extend from the attached margin into the corium of the lid. The very fine hairs do not reach very deep, and they are possessed of small sebaceous glands ; the sweat glands are also relatively small, but do not differ from those of other parts of the skin. Large cells with pigment granules are to be met with in the connective tissue (Waldeyer). At the anterior edge of the free margin of the lid, the epidermis possesses the same character as on the outer skin, but the papillae become longer and the hairs are represented by the thick and long cilia which in all respects, including their sebaceous glands, resemble the well-formed thick hairs of other parts. They are remarkable chiefly for their rapid change and new formation (Donders). Immediately behind the cilia we meet with the ducts of the glands of Moll, which often, but not by any means always, open into the ducts of the sebaceous glands. Each of the former penetrates in a wavy or vertical direction into the depth of the lid and passes into the slightly coiled tube of the gland proper. The structure of the duct and gland tube is precisely the same as that of a large sweat gland. Also the distinction between the proximal and distal portion of the gland tube pointed out in the previous chapter is to be noticed here. A longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells is also here interposed between the membrana propria and the layer of transparent columnar epithelial cells lining the lumen of the tube (Sattler). The difference between this gland and an ordinary sweat gland is merely this, that the tube of the former is not so much coiled and that it reaches to a greater depth than the latter.