65 PERIOSTAL DONE. 1 st Stage. The cells of the osteogenetic layer increase in number and form more or less continuous groups. These cells, osteoblasts, produce osseous substance (matrix and bone corpuscles) in the manner described above, and thus give origin to a more or less dense plexus of young bone-trabeculae, which, by new layers of osteoblasts, gradually increase in thickness. Many of these terminate or rather originate in the osteogenetic layer with pointed extremities ; their ground-substance is everywhere connected with the fibres of the osteogenetic layer, and their surface covered with osteoblasts. We have here, therefore, to deal with the identical ap- pearances that we described of the formation of the outer or periostal bone of the shaft of long bones. The production of the plexus of osseous trabeculae by the osteoblasts starts from the ‘ points of ossification,’ and gradually extends towards the periphery, the plexus being closest and the trabeculae thickest in the former locality. But the plexus of trabeculae extends also into the depth, new trabeculae being con- stantly formed in the osteogenetic layer. The result is, here just as in the shaft of long bones, that we find at a certain time underneath the (osteogenetic layer of the) periosteum a thicker or thinner stratum of spongy bone, the meshes (Haversian spaces) of which contain a vascular and cellular tissue, viz. marrow, derived from, and in continuity with the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. 2nd Stage. Portions of the osseous trabeculae are absorbed, osteoporosis ; during and after this process concentric lamellae are formed by the marrow in the Haversian spaces, which hereby become reduced to the Haversian canals. The systems of concentric lamellae are separated by the unabsorbed remains of the osseous trabeculae of the primary spongy bone, these acting now as the interstitial or ground-lamellae. We have thus compact substance formed from the spongy bone. The process of osteoporosis and the formation of compact substance embraces the inner and middle parts, that is those that have been formed first; the superficial layers next the periosteum being still in the young state of spongy bone. We see, then, that the formation of intermembranous bone, as in the tegmental bones of the skull and the bones of the face, is in every respect the same as the forma- tion of periostal bone in all other bones. Comparing, for instance, a section of the embryonal lower jaw (horizontal portion) or of the embryonal parietal bone with one through the middle of the shaft of an embryonal long bone, at a stage when all endochondral bone has disappeared in the central marrow cavity, and when the bone present is entirely periostal bone, it is impos- sible to distinguish the two by their histological characters, both being identical in development and structure.