ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 292 These, viz. the ova, undergo division, as is evinced by the characteristic changes of their intranuclear network, but they appear also to become fused into a plurinuclear mass, which afterwards again divides into several ova (Balfour). Their products, by enlargement of the nucleus and cell, and by the substance of the latter becoming more distinct, change into the permanent ova. The nucleus of these, as Balfour correctly described, possesses a characteristic reticular structure. Each nest contains a number of ova. The epithelial cells of the nests which are not converted into ova serve for the formation of the epithelium of the Grafian follicle. In the small nests, viz. in those of the cortical layer, the epithelial cells are relatively few and small, and by multiplication they gradually increase in number, sufficient to form an epithelial investment around each ovum. By an ingrowth of the stroma, the ova with their epithelial coat become separated from the rest of a nest, and then outside each a delicate membrana propria is formed. In some places the-nests, being connected with one another, form more or less cylindrical masses, and the ova appearing in them have a chainlike arrangement, ovum-chains of Pfliiger. A similar change occurs also in the larger or deep nests, viz. the epithelial cells undergo multiplication, and many of the ova become gradually invested in their own layer of epithelial cells; these are at first polyhedral, but, as development proceeds, be- come more or less columnar. By the ingrowth of the stroma, the follicles become sepa- rated from one another, each containing one or two ova. A membrana propria soon appears around them. It is to be noticed that, owing to a continued multiplication of the epithelial cells constituting these nests, larger or smaller portions of them (nests) remain without any ova. They may persist connected with a Grafian follicle or not. The masses of epithelial cells, which we described on a former page as cylindrical or irregular groups of epithelial cells, isolated, or connected with a Grafian follicle, receive thus a ready explana- tion. Whether an increase of these epithelial masses takes place also in the adult, and whether some of their cells change into ova also some time after birth, are points difficult to decide, but all appearances are in favour of such a view, and Balfour’s observations very much support it. Bischoff, Waldeyer, and others are of opinion that no ova are formed after birth; but Pfliiger, Kolliker, and others hold the contrary view. According to Foulis, no new ova are formed in the human ovary two and a half years after birth. There can be then no doubt that both ovum and epithelium of the Grafian follicle are derived from the primary germinal epithelium ; Foulis maintains that only the ovum has such an origin, while the epithelium of the Grafian follicle is derived from