433 THYROID GLAND. fibrils, forming the boundary of the organ. In connection with it are thicker or thinner septa of the same structure subdividing the contents of the gland into lobes and lobules. These septa are the carriers of the large blood-vessels and lymphatics. The inter- lobular septa give off fine lamellae which penetrate into the interior of the lobule and repeatedly branching form a network with smaller or larger, spherical or polyhedral, or oblong meshes containing the gland-alveoli or gland-vesicles. The amount of the interalveolar connective tissue varies greatly in different animals ; it is greater in man than in mammals (Kolliker). The alveoli within the same lobule are of various sizes and shapes, some being spherical, others oval, some large, others small. This in a certain degree depends on the amount of secretion present in their cavity. Most of them possess a central lumen or cavity. Each lobule of the growing thyroid contains a greater or smaller number of alveoli, which are conspicuous by their smallness and by the minuteness of their lumen. Some alveoli appear more tubular and branched, that is to say, two or three appear to communicate with one another (Zeiss, Baber). Such branched or tubular alveoli are more commonly found in the young than in the adult state (Baber). They are easily explained thus (Baber): In the earliest stage the thyroid is composed of a plexus of solid cylindrical masses of small polyhedral epithelial cells, derived from the hypoblast of the cervical part of the foregut; these cylindrical masses are separated from one another by connective tissue with blood vessels derived from the mesoblast, just as is the case in other glands (lung, ovary, salivary glands, mucous glands, &c.). As development proceeds, the epithelial cyl inders, while continuing in their growth, become gradually subdivided into alveoli by the ingrowth of the connective tissue; the alveoli are at first connected with one another, but sooner or later they become severed and isolated. But there always remain a few which retain their mutual connection. The alveoli by and bye become provided with a central cavity. It is quite probable that as long as the thyroid grows there is a new formation of alveoli, hence the great number of minute alveoli and the greater frequency of branched or intercommunicating ones in the young than in the old gland. Each alveolus is limited by a membrana propria. This is a network of nucleated flattened cells, as in other glands ; it is connected with minute nucleated spindle-shaped or branched cells, extending between the epithelial cells lining the lumen up to this latter. The epithelial cells are of various shapes, according to the size of the alveoli; and they differ also in different animals. In man and mammals they are more or less columnar cells, each with a slightly oval nucleus. Where the alveoli are large, owing to a great