352 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. According to Hirschberg and Loewe the pigmented epithelium of the posterior surface consists of two layers : a superficial and a deep one ; the former being continuous with the pars ciliaris retinae, the latter with the uvea of the processus ciliares. Near the pupillary margin are the circular bundles of unstriped muscle fibres of the sphincter pupillae ; they are situated nearer to the posterior than to the anterior surface and diminish in breadth towards the pupillary margin. They are separated from one another by small masses of the iris stroma. At the pupillary margin the muscle fibres of the sphincter are continuous with a thin membrane of muscle cells extending over the whole posterior surface of the iris (Henle, Htittenbrenner, Ivanoff), but under- neath the above superficial layer of pigment cells, to the ciliary margin, where its muscle cells change into a circular direction and anastomose into a plexus (Ivanoff). These muscle cells are all directed from the pupillary to the ciliary margin and represent the dilatator pupillae. The Blood-Vessels of the Iris.—The arterial vessels are those derived from the circulus arteriosus major and from the ciliary processes. The superficial layer of the tissue of the iris contains the capillary networks; these are densest near the posterior surface, and form a continuation of the capillary network of the ciliary processes ; the sphincter pupillae has its own dense capillary network. The veins follow the arterial branches and just like these are situated chiefly in the middle layer of the stroma. The adventitia and media of the arterial vessels is very thick and in the latter especially muscular (Arnold, Htittenbrenner). According to Faber there exists a direct transition of arterial vessels into venous branches. The Lymphatics.—The iris has no lymphatic vessels in the ordinary sense, but there exist lymphatic sinuses in the sheath of the blood-vessels, especially of the arteries and between the trabeculae of the connective-tissue bundles; at the ciliary margin of the iris they open into the spaces of Fontana and into those of the ligamentum pectinatum. The Nerves of the iris are very numerous and the number of the medullated nerves is in direct proportion to the muscular tissue. The human iris possesses fewer nerves than that of mammals, and this again fewer than that of birds (Pause). The nerves are arranged, according to Arnold, Formad, Faber, and others, in this manner : in the outer or ciliary portion of the iris the nerve branches form a plexus ; from this are derived : (a) non-medullated fibres terminating as a delicate network on