393 CHAPTER XL. THE INTERNAL EAR. Of this only the membranous labyrinth will be considered here, since the osseous part does not require any special histological description. The Utricle, Saccule, and the Semi-circular Canals. These agree on many points in their arrangement and structure. They all have an excentric position within their bony equivalent, being much closer placed against the bone of one side than of the other, so that the perilymph is accumulated chiefly at one side of them. The utricle lies closer to the median wall of the vestibule, the saccule less so, while the membranous semi-circular canals are placed closely against the convex side of the bony canals. In all instances the periosteum lining the inner surface of the bone sends out thicker or thinner trabeculae connected into a spongy fenestrated tissue, the ligaments of Rtidinger, which surrounding the (membranous) wall of the several structures, viz. utricle, saccule, and semi-circular canals, fix these latter very firmly to the bone. In man and mammals other similar but thinner trabeculae joined into a fenestrated spongy tissue extend, generally only on one side, from the membranous wall to the periosteum of the further side. In the rat the whole space of the perilymph is occupied by this tissue. The free surface of the periosteum and that of the above ligaments and of the other trabeculae is covered with a continuous layer of endothelium (Key and Retzius). Numerous vessels are carried by these trabeculae, and there are present in them nucleated cells of various sizes, some of them very large and granular and corresponding to plasma cells. The trabeculae consist of bundles of fibrous tissue, which by repeated crossing and reuniting are arranged in a spongy substance, completely resembling that described of the subarachnoidal tissue of the spinal cord. The structure of the wall of the utricle, saccule and semi-circular canals is the same. The above-named fibrous ligaments of the periosteum form the outer or fibrous coat ; inside this is the tunica propria, a glassy-looking membrane, which is thinnest at the side that is next the bone. In the adult organs the membrana propria is raised