LYMPHATICS AND BLOOD-VESSELS OF INTESTINE. 233 b. Lieberktihn’s crypts. c. Muscularis mucosae. f. Lymph follicle. g. Lymph passages around the follicle. /. Lymphatic network of the submucosa. k. An efferent lymphatic trunk. Fig. IX. From a vertical section through small intestine of mouse; the blood- vessels are injected with carmine gelatin. Magnifying power about 45. The arterial trunks of the submucosa give off the arteries for the villi; from the dense network of capillaries of each villus a vein is seen to emerge near the apex and to pass down into the submucosa. Fig. X. From the same preparation as fig. V., but more highly magnified, about 350. The placoid enlargements of the nerve branches, filled with very minute ganglion cells, are well shown; the ganglion cells are so closely placed that only their relatively large clear nuclei are here seen. The nerve branches give off minute fibres with nuclei connected into secondary plexuses. PLATE XXXV. Fig. XI. Plexus of Auerbach in rectum of toad. From a preparation stained first in cloride of gold and afterwards in heematoxylin. Magnifying power about 350. n. Nerve branches composed of elementary fibrils. g. Large multipolar isolated ganglion cells. Fig. XII. Part of a lobule of the pancreas of dog during digestion. Magnifying power about 350. The gland substance is composed of branched, wavy tubes ; many of them passing in an upward or downward direction are cut away transversely or obliquely. d. Terminal part of duct or the intermediary part, lined by polyhedral transparent epithelial cells. In many instances, however, this epithelium is made up of cells more flattened than is here the case. a. The alveoli or gland tubes. Each epithelial cell of the latter shows very well the distinction into an inner ‘granular’ and outer homogeneous part containing the nucleus, and staining deeply in hsematoxylin. The cells are separated by a considerable amount of transparent interstitial substance. There is hardly any distinct lumen visible in the alveoli, but several nuclei N N 2