ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 220 composed of finer and thicker flat bandlike nerve branches; each of these is ensheathed in a delicate endothelial membrane, being a continuation of the perineurium of the nerve trunks entering the intestine, and is composed of a number of fine elementary nerve fibrils. A grouping of these into separate axis cylinders is nowhere distinguishable. The plexus contains many triangular or irregularly shaped placoid enlargements, in which groups of ganglion cells are embedded. These are either closely grouped together and separated only by a few fibrils, or they are arranged in clusters or nests, or form chains and rows. These latter may be seen extending specially from the placoid enlargements into the afferent or efferent branches. The ganglion cells vary very greatly in size, some being many times larger than others. The smallest consist of a nucleus surrounded by just a trace of cell substance ; the largest ones are like ordinary full-grown sympathetic ganglion cells, from which they do not differ in structure of their cell substance and nucleus. As regards the shape of the ganglion cells, they are spherical, elliptical, or branched (unipolar, bipolar, and multipolar) ; only the larger ones are possessed of a capsule and processes. From this plexus come off minute branches, which, having split into fine fibres, form secondary plexuses for the different strata of the circular and the longitudinal muscle coat. These represent the plexuses for the muscle bundles, and correspond therefore to the intermediary nerve plexuses of unstriped muscle tissue (see p. 131). From the plexus of Auerbach pass nerve branches through the circular muscle layer into the submucous tissue, where they are connected into the plexus of Meissner. The branches of this are more cylindrical, and at the points of anastomosis they form nodular or spindle-shaped enlargements. Here are groups or chains of ganglion cells much more uniform in size and appearance than in the plexus of Auerbach ; many of the ganglion cells are enclosed in a capsule, and are unipolar, bipolar, and multipolar. From the plexus of Meissner originate other minute secondary plexuses of nerve fibres, most of which are destined for the bundles of the muscularis mucosae, but there are minute networks belonging to the connective tissue and blood-vessels of the sub- mucosa. The blood-vessels are arranged in various systems according to the very different tissues forming the wall of the small intestine. The first system is that of the peritoneal covering; then the external muscle coat contains the second system ; the fat tissue when that occurs in larger masses in the submucosa ; the lymph follicles and the Brunner’s glands (in the duodenum) contain each their own system; the muscularis mucosae has again its own vessels, the mucosa including the villi possesses the final and most important system. In all these cases the afferent arteries or efferent veins are branches of the respective trunks, entering the intestine at the mesenteric margin.