ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 48 CHAPTER VIII. CARTILAGE. This represents another division of connective tissues. In cartilage, as in other con- nective tissues, the cells, cartilage cells, are to be distinguished from the ground- or intercellular substance. The former are oval or spherical, occasionally flattened and branched, nucleated cells; the latter varies in different cartilages, being in some quite hyaline, in others fibrous, and in others reticular ; hence the division into hyaline, fibrous and reticular cartilage. All cartilage, except the free surface of articular cartilage, is covered with a thin vascular connective-tissue membrane, the perichondrium, composed of fibrous con- nective-tissue bundles, between groups of which we find the interfascicular lymph- spaces, and in these the flattened connective-tissue corpuscles mentioned on former occasions. A. Hyaline Cartilage. Hyaline cartilage has a very wide distribution in the adult body, being present in some nasal cartilages, parts of sternum, ribs, larynx, and trachea; on the articulation surface of bone as articular cartilage, no matter whether this surface is part of a free articulation or not. In most hyaline cartilages the cells are spherical or oval protoplasmic structures containing generally one spherical nucleus The protoplasm of the cells contains numerous fibrils twisted and crossing each other so as to form a feltwork (Schleicher, Flemming). In embryonal cartilage (very probably also in growing cartilage of adult) this fibrillar protoplasm is contractile (Schleicher). Occasionally smaller fat-globules are present in the cell-protoplasm. The nucleus contains within its limiting membrane a more or less well-defined network (Flemming). Each cartilage cell is placed in a cavity, lacuna, enclosed by a greater or smaller amount of hyaline ground-substance, a firm structureless substance yielding chondrin. The hyaline ground-substance around each cell represents a more or less polyhedral mass derived from the cartilage cell itself; so that we may consider a given section of hyaline cartilage as composed of an aggregate of blocks, more or less polyhedral in shape, being pressed against one another, each of which consists of a hyaline matrix and a cartilage cell placed in its centre.