84 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XII. CEREBROSPINAL NERVES. The nerve trunks of the cerebro-spinal system, with the exception of the optic nerve, consist of the following structures (Axel Key and Retzius): а) The epineurium, the common framework, is composed of bundles of fibrous- connective tissue arranged as larger or smaller trabeculae, which cross each other and thus form a more or less dense plexus. Between the bundles are the ordinary flattened more or less branched connective-tissue corpuscles, and in many places the coarsely granular plasma cells (Waldeyer), showing slight amoeboid movement. Fat-tissue, a plexus of lymphatics, and the numerous blood-vessels supplying the nerve trunk are all embedded in the connective tissue of the epineurium. б) In this common framework are embedded smaller and larger bundles of nerve fibres, nerve bundles. Each of these has its own special sheath of connective tissue, perineurium. This possesses a lamellar structure ; the lamellae consist of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, and between them are the flattened connective-tissue cells, situated as it were in more or less continuous (interlamellary) lymph-spaces. The nerve bundle is a simple one if the nerve fibres are embedded in a uniform matrix, compound if in connexion with the perineurium thicker or thinner septa of connective tissue pass into the bundle, and thus separate the nerve fibres into two or more secondary groups. c) The nerve fibres within a nerve-bundle are separated from each other by endoneurium, viz. a more or less homogeneous substance containing numerous minute connective-tissue fibre-bundles and isolated fine connective-tissue fibres and flattened nucleated connective-tissue cells. The connective-tissue fibres are twisted and coiled round the individual nerve fibres in a complex manner, in some places forming a dense sheath around them. The endoneurium contains capillary blood-vessels having chiefly a longitudinal course. The endoneurium is accumulated occasionally on the surface of the nerve bundle, but inside the perineurium, as a special thinner or thicker peripheral layer. Between the inner surface of the perineurium and the nerve fibres themselves there are always to be found longer or shorter lymph-spaces lined by a layer of endothelium, and these are connected with lymph-spaces of the endoneurium passing in between the individual nerve fibres. The endoneural lymph-spaces have been injected by Axel Key