ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 242 The vascular supply of the bronchi is obtained from the bronchial arteries, whose ultimate branches supply the mucosa, the muscular coat, the mucous glands and fat tissue with special networks of capillaries. In the smallest bronchi, the capillaries of the bron- chial wall are directly connected with the capillaries of the adjacent alveoli ; but in the larger bronchi the capillaries empty themselves into the bronchial veins only. Lymphatic vessels are present as a network of fine capillaries in the mucosa ; they are connected with larger tubes with valves situated in the submucous and adventitious tissue, the peribronchial lymphatics. In the submucous tissue of the larger as well as smaller bronchi are occasionally present smaller or larger lymph follicles (Burdon-Sanderson, Klein) ; they extend sometimes as diffuse adenoid tissue into the mucosa, and are generally surrounded by a dilatation or a lymph sinus of a peribronchial lymphatic (Klein). Small collections of adenoid tissue may be met with in the wall of even the smallest bronchi. In connection with the nerve branches of the adventitia are small ganglia (Remak, Klein, Stirling). 4. The Lung. Like other glands, the lung also possesses a connective-tissue framework in which is embedded the parenchyma. The framework consists of a capsule, the pulmonary pleura, and in connection with it are the septa dividing the parenchyma into lobes and subdividing these again into lobules. The capsule consists (in man and the large mammals) of an outer denser layer, pleura proper, and an inner looser tissue, subpleural tissue, which passes into the depth as the aforesaid septa. The pleura is covered on its free surface with an endothelium, whose cells are transparent, large, flat, and hyaline when the lung is expanded ad maximum, but become smaller, thicker (polyhedral) and granular-looking when the lung collapses (Klein). The ground substance is a dense fibrous-connective tissue and in it are networks of elastic fibres. Like that of other serous membranes, it contains a lymph-canalicular system, and in it branched connective-tissue corpuscles. There exists the same continuity of the interstitial substance of the surface endothelium with the lymph-canalicular system, as well as of this with the numerous lymphatic vessels (subpleural lymphatics), to be described below (Kiittner, Klein), as that occurring in other membranes (see p. 175). In some animals (guinea pig) the pulmonary pleura contains a mesh work of broader or narrower bands of unstriped muscle cells (Klein); the meshes are lymph sinuses, communicating with the free surface of the pleura by means of true stomata. The subpleural tissue and that constituting the interlobar and interlobular septa con-