351 CHAPTER XXXVI. THE IRIS, CILIARY PROCESSES, AND CHORIOIDEA. i. The Iris. The Iris consists of the following layers, counting from the anterior to the posterior surface : a) The endothelium consists of polyhedral cells, each with a spherical or slightly oval nucleus ; in dark-coloured eyes of man and mammals the cell substance is filled with dark brown pigment granules. b) Underneath the endothelium is a very delicate hyaline basement membrane ; its continuity with the hyaline elastic membrane of the ligamentum pectinatum and with Descemeti’s membrane has been mentioned above. c) The substantia propria : this forms the matrix of the iris and consists of bundles of connective tissue chiefly accompanying the blood-vessels; near the ciliary margin, especially towards the posterior surface, they are arranged in larger groups densely inter- woven with one another. Between these bundles of connective tissue are found very numerous branched cells ; in dark eyes many of them contain a variable amount of pigment granules. Both the unpigmented and pigmented cells are generally elongated, slightly flattened, and with thin processes, which, extending chiefly in the level of their broad diameter, cause that the cells when viewed in profile appear more or less spindle-shaped, with only few pro- cesses. Around the blood-vessels and near the posterior surface these pigment-cells are most numerous. In the latter place they are very closely arranged, and being parallel to the surface form almost a layer of their own. Besides these branched cells there are a few migratory cells to be met with in the sheath of the blood-vessels. d) A hyaline thin layer, being a kind of basement membrane; it is a continuation of the lamina vitrea of the ciliary processes and bears also the name of membrana pigmenti. e) The uvea ; this is composed of polyhedral epithelial cells each with an oval or spherical nucleus; the cell substance is in all instances, albinos excepted, filled with dark brown pigment granules. In blue eyes this is the only layer of the iris that contains pigment granules.