5i FIBROUS CARTILAGE. pubis, sesamoid cartilages, the cartilages forming the margin of a fossa glenoidalis, &c. In all these instances the ground-substance is composed of bundles of ordinary fibrous tissue, forming occasionally more or less distinct lamellae, which in a few instances (ligam. intervertebr. and cartilago symphysis pubis) possess a concentric arrangement. On the surface of the bundles, or rather of groups of bundles, are placed, similarly as in tendon or fasciae, rows of slightly flattened elastic cells (Boll), each with a round nucleus and enclosed in a distinct capsule. As a general rule, where this form of cartilage is present in large and continuous masses, there is no hyaline cartilage substance to be seen around the cells; but when it is interspersed in tendinous tissue, as in the tendo Achillis, near the insertions of tendons on bone, besides the above form, also isolated cells or groups of them may be seen surrounded by a smaller or larger amount of hyaline matrix. When tendinous tissue passes into fibrous cartilage, as where tendinous tissue is fixed on the fibrous cartilage (ligamenta intervertebralia) or in the cartilagines sesamoideae of tendons, the bundles of connective tissue of the tendon pass without interruption into those of the fibrous cartilage, and so do also the cells, retaining their arrangement in rows, and their relation to the surface of the group of bundles, but the cells, besides being less flattened at the point of transition into the fibrous cartilage, become invested, as mentioned above, in a thin capsule. At the point of transition of fibrous into hyaline cartilage, as at the margin of the ligamenta intervertebralia, or the cartilago symphysis pubis, the fibrous matrix of the former passes insensibly into the hyaline substance of the latter, and the cells of the one into those of the other ; when entering the hyaline cartilage, the cells of course change their shape, losing their flattened character, and their arrangement is no longer in rows. C. Reticular Cartilage. This is also called yellow or elastic cartilage. It occurs in the ear-lobe, larynx (epiglottis, cartilagines Wrisbergi and Santorini, the cartilaginous nodule or rod occa- sionally found in the true vocal cord) and tuba Eustachii. Reticular cartilage in the adult state is hyaline cartilage permeated by elastic fibrils. These are arranged so as to form the trabeculae of a reticular or spongy frafnework; within the trabeculae the elastic fibrils branch repeatedly, and anastomose with each other and cross one another in all directions. The meshes of the reticular framework contain the cartilage-cells singly or in groups, surrounded by a smaller or larger amount of hyaline cartilage substance. Different cartilages of this species vary in the relative amount of hyaline ground- I