STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. 209 Outside this is the outer membrane or outer epithelium of the enamel cap, marked by a purple line. f. Tissue of the tooth sac with vessels; these latter do not extend further than the outer membrane of the enamel cap. Fig. II. From a similar embryonal tooth as in figure I., but of a stage when no middle membrane of the enamel cap is visible. Magnifying power about 400. a. Special layer of spindle-shaped and branched cells of the periphery of the tissue of the papilla penetrating with their long filamentous processes between the odontoblasts proper. These processes are much more numerous than represented here. b. The odontoblasts proper. c. Most recently formed layer of dentin. Ci. Older dentin. c2. Enamel. d. Enamel cells ; between this layer and the following is a distinct membrane, omitted in the drawing. e. Outer epithelium of enamel organ ; its cells are separated from each other, probably in course of preparation. f. Tissue of tooth sac, a lamellated structure; the details of its structure have been omitted. Figs. III. and IV. Copied from Kolliker’s ‘ Handbook.’ In Fig. III. enamel prisms are seen in transverse section; in fig. IV. portions of enamel prisms seen lengthwise. Figs. V. and VI. Copied from Waldeyer (figs. 97 and 98) in Strieker’s ‘ Handbook.’ Fig. V. Frontal section through praemolar tooth of cat. Magnifying power 15. 1. Enamel, showing a radial striation due to the crossing of bundles of enamel prisms, and numbers of parallel stripes of Retzius. 2. Dentin with the dentinal canals and Schreger’s lines. The most peripheral dotted zone of the dentin corresponds to the interglobular substance. The central cavity corresponds to the pulp cavity. 3. Cement; in its transparent ground-substance are seen the large bone corpuscles. 4. Periosteum of alveolus. 5. Inframaxillary bone with the inframaxillary canal. Fig. VI. Part of dentin and cement from a transverse section of human canine tooth. Magnifying power 300. 1. Cement with the large bone corpuscles. 2. Interglobular substance.