STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 27 them are possessed of short, lateral, club-shaped branchlets. On the whole, each duct, and its corresponding section of the gland tissue, are comparable to a compound tubular gland, as described in former chapters. The alveoli, as well as the ducts, possess a membrana propria, and a distinct lumen lined with epithelium. With regard to this latter the alveoli are of two different kinds : (1) alveoli lined with a single layer of thin and long columnar cells, each with an oval nucleus in the outer part of the cell; (2) alveoli whose lumen is lined with a layer of short columnar cells, and outside this but inside the membrana propria there is another layer of small, cubical, polyhedral or spindle-shaped cells. The columnar cells of the former layer possess a thin process, which passes through the outer layer, and reaches the membrana propria. The stratified pavement epithelium of the urethra is continued a short way into the mouth of the ducts. The columnar cells lining the lumen of the alveoli, in the prostate gland of the newborn child, are much shorter than after puberty (Langerhans). The ducts are lined with a layer of columnar cells, underneath which is a layer of small polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus. As in other glands, so also here the alveoli are surrounded by a dense network of capillary blood-vessels. Numerous ganglia are interposed in the plexus of the nerve- branches, present in the peripheral portion of the gland. In this portion occur also Pacinian corpuscles. The Urethra. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane is stratified pavement epithelium in the lower half of the pars prostatica and membranacea ; in the upper half it is stratified transitional epithelium ; in front of the bulbus urethrae the epithelium becomes columnar first at the sides, latest in the lower part There exist, however, in this respect great differences in different urethrae, and at different periods of life. Thus, in the newborn child, there are, amongst the columnar epithelium, islands of stratified pavement epithe- lium even in the pars cavernosa of the urethra. The fossa navicularis is lined with stratified pavement epithelium. Wherever this latter is found the mucous membrane forms minute conical papillae, containing loops of the superficial capillary network. The mucous membrane consists chiefly of fibrous connective-tissue, but there are present also large numbers of elastic fibres (Robin and Cadiat). It is surrounded by muscular tissue; at the root of the urethra this is made up of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer of bundles of unstriped muscle cells ; in the pars prostatica the muscular coat is chiefly longitudinal and is intimately connected with the muscular