i56 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. branes joined into a honeycomb. This honeycomb contains all gradations between fibrils and plate-like expansions. Its chemical nature is not definitely ascertained ; it is neither identical with elastic tissue nor with common fibrous tissue. (ib) Applied to this adenoid reticulum are from place to place transparent flattened (connective-tissue) endotheloid cells, each with an oval but flattened nucleus. The large clear nuclei, which in an ordinary section are situated apparently in the nodes of the reticulum, are in reality the nuclei of these endotheloid cells fixed on the reticulum. By prolonged shaking or pencilling of a section of the gland all the endotheloid cells can be removed from the reticulum, and this latter is then seen to be barren of any nuclei, at any rate in the adult state (Bizzozero, Klein). In embryonal life and during early periods of development the reticulum, being derived from branched cells, possesses nuclei, but these disappear as the development advances. (e) The meshes of the adenoid reticulum contain, according to their size, two, three or more lymph-corpuscles; they are completely filled by the latter. These lymph- corpuscles are small cells, each with a conspicuous spherical nucleus, staining deeply in ordinary dyes. In most corpuscles the amount of cell-protoplasm surrounding the nucleus is very small and escapes superficial observation. An ordinary section through adenoid tissue reveals at first sight only these nuclei, densely crowded ; of the delicate cell- substance surrounding each of them, and of the adenoid reticulum containing them, very little is to be noticed. The nucleus of the lymph-corpuscles is smaller than that of the endotheloid plates, spherical, whereas the nucleus of the latter is oval and flattened, and stains more deeply and appears therefore less transparent than the latter. The intranuclear network is always more distinct in the latter than in the former. When carefully examining the lymph-corpuscles it will be seen that some of them are larger than others, possessing a larger amount of cell-protoplasm ; they contain one or two nuclei, and are considered in a more advanced state of development; under suitable conditions they show amoeboid movement. They differ from ordinary colourless blood- corpuscles chiefly in the fact that the nuclei are larger in the former than in the latter. (d) The adenoid tissue is richly supplied with blood-vessels ; like all glandular tissues, it contains a dense network of capillaries. These differ from ordinary capillaries in so far as they obtain from the adenoid reticulum a special sheath, the capillary adventitia (His). The adenoid tissue occurs also in the simple lymphatic glands and other kindred organs ; it possesses everywhere the same structure, and we shall, therefore, not detail its structure again, when describing the latter. (3) The lymphatics ; the afferent lymphatics enter the capsule and branch here into