ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 88 Fig. I. Part of a transverse section of sciatic nerve of dog, as seen under a magnify- ing power of about 40. Ep. Epineurium, consisting of bundles of connective-tissue fibres cut in different ways, and containing many vascular trunks cut transversely. f. Fat tissue contained in the epineurium. p. Perineurium, being the sheath for the individual nerve bundles. n. Nerve fibres, composing the nerve bundles cut transversely. Fig. II. Part of a transverse section of sciatic nerve of man ; magnifying power about 4. The lymphatics of the nerve have been injected with blue by ‘puncture.’ Numerous nerve bundles are shown surrounded by more or less continuous blue rings, the injected perineurium. Fig. III. Transverse section through a microscopic nerve branch of human epiglottis; magnifying power about 120. This branch represents a compound nerve bundle surrounded by perineurium. p. Perineurium, consisting of lamellae of fibrous-connective tissue, alternating with flattened nucleated connective-tissue cells. l. Lymph-space between perineurium and surface of nerve bundle. The medullated nerve fibres are seen as circles with a central dot, viz. medullary sheath and axis cylinder, in transverse section ; they are embedded in endoneurium, containing numerous nuclei, belonging to the connective-tissue cells of the latter. Fig. IV. Part of a transverse section of a nerve bundle of lumbar plexus of man. On the right are seen the lymph-spaces of the perineurium injected with blue matter ; they are in connection with similarly injected larger spaces (on the left) of the endoneu- rium, and with the minute spaces around the individual nerve fibres, seen in transverse sections. Magnifying power about 70. Fig. V. Transverse section through a nerve bundle of tail of mouse. Magnifying power about 120. p. Perineurium. l. Lymph-space of perineurium. E. Endoneurium. l. Lymph-spaces of endoneurium. Fig. VI. Part of a transverse section of sciatic nerve of man ; the lymph-spaces of the epineurium have been injected by ‘ puncture ’ with blue matter. Magnifying power about 60.