ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY,\ 124 CHAPTER XVIII. PERIPHERAL DISTRIBUTION OF NERVES. As has been mentioned on a former occasion, the nerve bundles, ensheathed in their perineurium, represent the microscopic nerve branches. By repeated division the number of nerve fibres composing a branch becomes gradually reduced. All the fine branches of a nerve bundle down to those that contain only one or two nerve fibres possess a sheath which is a continuation of the perineurium. This sheath varies in its thickness in different localities, in some places it is merely an endothelial membrane, in others it is of considerable thickness and consists then of fibrous-connective tissue and endotheloid cells. This sheath is called Henle’s sheath, or also perineurial sheath (Key and Retzius). The nerve fibres composing a fine sensory branch remain medullated until they arrive near their peripheral termination, where they lose their medullary sheath. This, however, does not take place in all nerve fibres at the same time, for we find repeatedly minute branches in which some of the nerve fibres become non-medullated much sooner than others. In the skin and mucous membranes the minute nerve branches containing one, two or more nerve fibres when approaching the surface epithelium are connected into a plexus, which is called the siLbepithelial plexus. The branches of this plexus contain generally only non-medullated nerve fibres and vary very much in thickness. They represent broader or narrower bands composed of minute fibrils, elementary nerve fibrils, since even in the thicker examples the distinction into separate axis cylinders has been lost. Each branch possesses a sheath with nuclei from place to place. The former is a continuation of the perineurium, the latter either belong to the perineurial sheath, or are indicative of nerve corpuscles, the sheath of Schwann of the individual nerve fibres having ceased previously. The points where several branches of the subepithelial plexus anastomose contain occasionally (cornea, skin) angular thickenings ; here the (elementary) fibrils cross each other and rearrange themselves; nuclei are generally more numerously met with in these thickenings than in other parts. i) In the cornea. The nerve trunks entering the cornea give off branches for two different systems