STRUCTURE OF MAMMARY GLAND. 303 • From all the appearances it seems then clear, that the production of the milk globules is similar to that of oil-globules in fat-cells, viz. it takes place within the cell substance, the smaller globules becoming gradually confluent into larger ones (Langer, Creighton, Winkler, Schmid, Kolessnikow, and others). It is most probable that the epithelial cells eject the milk globules produced in them without however becoming themselves (epithelial cells) destroyed (Langer). According to Schmid the epithelial cells, after having for some time secreted milk globules, undergo degeneration, and become replaced by new cells produced by the division of the other epithelial cells. The milk of a mammary gland in full secretion contains in a transparent homo- geneous interstitial fluid the milk globules. These are of very various sizes, and each consists, as already stated, of a thin albuminous envelope and a fat-globule. Very few remnants of broken-down cells and nuclei are found in the milk. In the colostrum there are contained numerous nucleated cells more or less filled with milk globules—the colostrum corpuscles. These exhibit amceboid movement, and while moving may eject the milk globules (Strieker). During the transition of the resting gland into the state of lactation the alveoli filled with epithelial cells become greatly enlarged in numbers, their epithelium undergoing a corresponding multiplication ; the central cells of each alveolus become gradually filled with milk globules produced in them, and are carried away by the ducts as colostrum corpuscles (Hasse, Henle, Kolliker, Langer, Creighton, Buchholz, and others) ; the peripheral cells persist in the alveolus as the epithelium lining the membrana propria. The alveoli of the active gland are surrounded by a dense network of capillary blood-vessels, which for each lobule form a continuous system. In the interlobular connective-tissue lie networks of lymphatic vessels (Langhans). The alveoli are surrounded by lymph spaces (Coyne) like the seminal tubes or the alveoli of the salivary glands (see former chapters). According to Kolessnikow they empty themselves into the interlobular lymphatic vessels. PLATE XL. Fig. I. From a section through a lobule of the mammary gland of the cat in the later stages of pregnancy. Magnifying power about 45. a. A lobular duct branching into four small ducts. The alveoli of the gland are