ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 114 CHAPTER XVI. CEREBRO-SPINAL GANGLIA. It has been mentioned in a former chapter that the spinal nerves, when leaving the cord, receive from both the dura mater and arachnoidea a special investing sheath, viz. the dural and arachnoidal sheath. The pia mater does not send any prolongation on to the nerves, but is merely perforated by them. The same holds good for the cerebral nerves. The dural sheath of the ordinary cerebro-spinal nerves becomes identified with the epineurium, the arachnoidal sheath with the perineurium described in Chapter XII. p. 84. The cerebro-spinal ganglia possess a continuation of both the dural and arach- noidal sheath (Axel Key and Retzius), the former being placed quite peripherally, the latter more internally. The former is, like the epineurium of nerve trunks, to which it corresponds, composed of more or less dense fibrous-connective tissue, connective- tissue corpuscles, and networks of elastic fibres ; the latter possesses, just like the perineurium of the nerve bundles, a lamellar structure, thin lamellae of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue alternating with flattened endotheloid connective-tissue cor- puscles. Both the epineural and perineural connective tissue of the ganglia send into the nterior longer or shorter septa. Those of the latter (viz. perineurium) follow the larger and smaller nerve bundles that permeate each ganglion in different directions. The endoneurium of the nerve-roots passes also into the ganglion between groups and individual ganglion cells, as the so-called interstitial tissue. Its structure is similar to that of the nerve bundles, being a homogeneous matrix containing in some places minute bundles of connective-tissue fibrils ; protoplasmic nucleated cells are also present in it. These are very numerous, and in all their characters are identical with the flattened connective-tissue cells described of the endoneurium of the nerve bundles. The endoneural connective tissue of the ganglion contains numerous capillary blood-vessels connected into a network, and nerve fibres that wind themselves through the groups of ganglion cells.