9i CHAPTER XIII. THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord is invested in a compound connective-tissue sheath, which is richly supplied with vessels and nerves, and is continued on to the nerve roots of the cord. This sheath is known as («) Dura mater, (b) Arachnoidea, and (e) Pia mater. a) The dura mater is composed of lamellae more or less intimately connected with one another. In the outer part the lamellae possess a more circular, in the inner a more longitudinal course (Axel Key and Retzius). The number of lamellae varies of course according to the thickness of the dura; each lamella consists of a layer of parallel bundles of fine connective-tissue fibres; the bundles of neighbouring layers are placed under more or less acute angles. Between the lamellae lie flattened more or less branched connective-tissue cells arranged in a network. To these corpuscles corresponds, just as in the cornea (see p. 30), a system of lacunae and canals, the lymph-canalicular system. In some places a network of fine elastic fibres is present underneath the cell plates. The inner surface of the dura is covered with a thin hyaline elastic membrane, and on this is a continuous layer of nucleated endothelial plates, like that covering the serous membranes. The outer surface is also covered with a continuous layer of endothelium (Axel Key and Retzius). The dura mater is richly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves. b) The arachnoidea is, according to Axel Key and Retzius, a delicate membrane composed of paraded and closely placed bundles of connective-tissue fibres; between the bundles are the connective-tissue corpuscles. The bundles of this groundwork or ‘ outer membrane ’ have pre-eminently a longitudinal direction. On the outer free sur- face is an endothelial membrane composed of one or two layers of endothelial plates. On the inner surface lies a fenestrated membrane composed of anastomosing thinner and thicker trabeculae of connective-tissue fibres. The trabeculae having chiefly a transverse direction, it follows that the meshes are stretched in a transverse diameter. This fenestrated or * inner membrane ’ is covered, on the surface directed towards the sub- arachnoidal space, by a single layer of endothelial plates. e) The pia mater consists (Axel Key and Retzius) of an external and an internal portion. The former is composed chiefly of longitudinal bundles of connective-tissue fibres, and is covered towards the subarachnoidal space with an endothelial membrane. Q