ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 276 occur or proceed with any regularity, for we may find any two of the above conditions not only in adjacent seminal tubes, but also side by side in the same tube. Some observers (v. Ebner, Neumann, Mihalkovics, and others) consider each of the above groups of spermatozoa as formed in a single large cell (spermatoblast of v. Ebner and Neumann), consisting of: a nucleated (v. Ebner) or non-nucleated (Neumann) basis at or near the membrana propria of the seminal tube : a thin prolongation (our peduncle) : and, finally, a broad fanlike lobed mass next the lumen of the tube, in which mass the spermatozoa are produced. Such a view, if correct, would completely upset the account given of the formation of the spermatozoa in the preceding pages. The view that each of our groups of young spermatozoa is at first a single large cell, in which spermatozoa are developed, rests chiefly on the assumption that the part we called the peduncle of the group is connected with one definite seminal epithelial cell, being, in fact, an outgrowth of it, an assumption which appears to me not verified by observation. On the other hand, the formation of the young spermatozoa can be traced distinctly from our spermatoblasts, or daughter cells of the seminal epithelium, as well as the gradual arrangement of the former (sperma- tozoa) into groups. The seminal tubules, when approaching the corpus Highmori, empty themselves into the vasa recta, which, in the corpus Highmori, by anastomosis become connected into the rete testis Halleri. The vasa recta and the tubes of the rete testis are much thinner than the seminal tubules; there is a constriction at the passage of the convoluted seminal tubule into a vas rectum of men (Stieda). The vasa recta and the tubes of the rete testis possess a hyaline membrana propria lined with a single layer of transparent short columnar cells (Stieda), which in the guinea pig are squamous (Messing). The tubes of the coni vasculosi and the rest of the canal of the epididymis, including the vas aberrans Halleri, are considerably larger than the canals of the rete testis; they possess a large lumen lined with columnar epithelium. Outside this epithelium is the membrana propria, supported and thickened by unstriped muscle cells, arranged chiefly as a circular coat, but some have also a longitudinal direction. The epithelium is composed of columnar thin cells, each with a bundle of exceedingly long cilia on the free surface (O. Becker, Kolliker). Each cell contains an oval nucleus in its outer portion. The substance of the cells is a beautiful reticulum, arranged pre- eminently in a longitudinal manner, and the cilia are prolongations of the fibrils of that network. The nucleus contains within a membrane the intranuclear reticulum. Under- neath the superficial columnar cells there is always a more or less distinct layer of small