272 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. in the case of the epithelial cells of the newt. As will be minutely considered in a future chapter, the above forms correspond to what is termed (Flemming, Klein) : the ‘ convolution,’ the * basket,’ the ‘ wreath,’ the * monaster,’ or the ‘ dyaster.’ The oval nucleus, with the transparent, honey-combed reticulum, viz. the nucleus of the first type of the outer seminal cells, corresponds to a ‘ resting nucleus ’ (Flemming), that is, a nucleus not in the state of division. The number of these ‘ resting nuclei ’ is subject to considerable variations in different tubes ; while in some they are relatively few and limited only to the outer layer of cells, we find, in others, their number much greater, and not limited only to the outer layer of cells, but present also, though very rarely, amongst the cells of the inner layers. Towards the lumen of the tube the cells, as already mentioned, are loosely connected, and, in some places, their nucleus is seen in the very state of dividing, or already divided, into two small daughter imclei, each with fibrils and rods of a similar arrangement as before the division (see a future chapter). In the latter instance the cell itself is just dividing, or has already divided, into two small daughter cells, each with one daughter nucleus. The cell substance of these daughter cells is less transparent than that of the mother cell, and its outline is very well marked. The mother nucleus, as well as the daughter nuclei, during division, or immediately after, shows, as a rule, very clearly, in well prepared and stained sections, the above-mentioned arrangement of the fibrils or rods, but in some places the latter (fibrils or rods) are not distinct, the nucleus or nuclei appearing as a more or less uniform knobbed single or double clump, staining deeply in dyes. In some tubes the number of the (small) daughter cells is greater than in others ; in the former they may be found arranged in several layers loosely connected with one another. Amongst the seminal epithelial cells with one nucleus are found, especially in the cat and dog, occasionally, but on the whole not frequently, large multinuclear cells. Where they occur they are found in groups, but the individual cells are more or less separated from one another. They are of very various sizes ; some have a limited number of nuclei (2-4), others have 8-12 or more. The cells are spherical, and each of the nuclei contained in them is spherical, and of precisely the same nature as those of the inner seminal epithelial cells, viz. without a definite membrane and containing filaments or rods arranged in a complex manner, preparatory to division. In few instances of the testicle of the cat are found, besides the multinuclear cells just mentioned, other large cells with one or several homogeneous nuclei deeply staining in logwood; these nuclei appear irregularly shaped, lobed, or possessed of knob-like prominences. Now, the small cells, mentioned above as the daughter cells, undergo very interesting