ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 246 in the lymph-canalicular system of the wall of the alveoli. These vessels accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery and vein, and the larger trunks possess valves. In some places the perivascular lymphatics more or less completely invaginate the arterial or venous branches, in others the lymphatics form a dense network of inter- communicating sinuses in the sheath of the large branches of the pulmonary artery (Klein). (c) The peribronchial lymphatics, which have been mentioned previously as the deep lymphatics of the bronchi, to whose adventitia they belong, anastomose freely with the perivascular lymphatics and run with them, in the form of a plexus of lymphatic trunks with valves, through the interlobular and interlobar connective tissue towards the bronchial glands. The rootlets of the subpleural and the perivascular lymphatics, as mentioned already, lie in the alveolar walls, that is in the lymph-canalicular system described on a former page. The lacunse of this (lymph-canalicular) system are situated between the capillary blood-vessels, and their canaliculi cross these latter in many directions. During the expansion of the lung (inspiration), the lymph-canalicular system, as well as the lymphatic vessels, become distended, and there is caused hereby, naturally, a certain suction, in consequence of which formed or fluid matter, that happens to be present in the alveolar cavities, will readily penetrate from the latter into the lymphatic vessels. The above-described direct connection of the lymph-canalicular system with the inter- stitial substance between the epithelial cells lining the alveolar cavity is of great import- ance in this process. Sykorski, and afterwards Kiittner, demonstrated very beautifully the passage of pigment matter that had been inspired into the bronchi and alveoli during life (dog, cat, rabbit) through the interstitial substance of the lining epithelium into the lymph-canalicular system, and hence into the lymphatic vessels, all parts being very well injected. Inflammatory products present in the alveolar cavities readily find their way into the efferent lymphatics. The migratory lymph cells (pus-corpuscles) of inflamma- tion are supported in this by their amoeboid movement. A more or less similar success was achieved by Ruppert, Schottelius, and v. Ins. Schestopal injected the lymphatic system of the frog’s lung by introducing pig- ment matter into its cavity. The result is the same as in the experiments of Ktitt- ner on mammals, viz. the pigment matter is contained in the interstitial substance of the lining epithelium, in the lymph-canalicular system, and, finally, in the lymphatic vessels. Coal particles of a smoky atmosphere, when inhaled for some time, penetrate into the lymph-canalicular system of the alveolar walls, as well as into the lymphatics of many parts of the lung. They are especially distinct in the subpleural lymphatics and the