217 CHYLE VESSELS OF VILLI. sorption in general (see Chapter XII.) ; viz. owing to the centripetal direction of the current in the lymphatic vessels, there is an a priori tendency of matter to pass from outside the lymphatic into the interior of this latter, and as both the wall of the lymphatic and the tissue surrounding it are permeable for formed matter, this latter will find its way into the lymphatic. 2) Underneath the epithelium is a basement membrane, which is composed of a single layer of flattened transparent endothelial plates, each with an oval nucleus, sub- epithelial endothelium (Debove, Watney). The tissue of the mucosa is similar to adenoid tissue, viz. a reticulum of fibrils and membranes, to which are applied from place to place transparent endotheloid plates, each with an oval, clear nucleus ; in the meshes of the reticulum are lymph corpuscles. A few coarsely granular large plasma cells may be occasionally seen amongst them. Each villus is a projection of the mucosa. Villi vary in the intestines of different animals and in different parts of the same intestine. This difference consists in their length and shape : in some cases they are much flattened, leaf-like (hedgehog) ; in others less flattened (man, dog, cat) ; in the majority of cases they are conical if short (mouse), cylindrical if long (cat, dog). The tissue of the villi is similar to, but not identical with, that of the rest of the mu- cosa. It possesses in the centre one or two relatively large chyle vessels ; these are in all respects identical with lymphatic capillaries, their wall being made up of a single layer of endothelial plates (v. Recklinghausen). They terminate with a blind extremity near but not quite at the summit of the villus. Along this chyle vessel or vessels run thin bundles of unstriped muscle cells (Briicke). They extend from the base to near the summit of the villus ; in many places they may be traced from the tissue of the mucosa, in others this does not seem to be so. The individual cells are relatively long, like the muscle cells of the alimentary canal generally. In a transverse section through a villus the muscle bundles appear arranged around the chyle vessel, without, however, always forming a continuous layer (Basch). Thanhoffer mentions also circular muscle cells situated in a transverse direction on the surface of the villus immediately underneath the epithelium. On their way towards the summit the bundles of muscle cells become much attenuated by giving off laterally individual muscle cells that terminate at the basement membrane of the sides of the villus. Those muscle cells that reach the summit terminate also on the basement membrane (Watney). The matrix of the villus consists of a homogeneous delicate reticulum, in the meshes of which lie flattened cells of various sizes, each with an oval clear nucleus, and arranged like an endothelium (Watney). There are all gradations between these