STRUCTURE OF LENS FIBRES. 357 The lens fibres of the peripheral portions are broader and thicker than those in the centre, the former are softer and their substance less firm than that of the latter. Those in the centre or the so-called nucleus of the lens are firmest. In all parts they show a very delicate and dense longitudinal striation. The shape of each lens fibre is that of a band, hexagonal in transverse section, but so that the two parallel surfaces are greatly larger than the other four. In a section that comprises a number of lens fibres transversely cut, a beautiful and regular hexagonal mosaic is obtained. The surface of the lens fibres is not smooth, but beset with minute ridges and furrows more or less regularly and closely distributed, the ridges of one lens fibre fitting into the furrows of its neighbour (Valentin, Henle, Kolliker, Babuchin, Fubini, and others). These ridges and furrows are best marked on the narrower sides of the lens fibres—the short sides of the lens-hexagons—less so on the broad sides, although rudiments of them are also seen on the latter. Looking at the narrow sides of the lens fibres in the bird’s-eye view a transverse striation is noticed. The fibres of the central part of the lens have larger and more irregular ridges and furrows than those ot the periphery. The lens fibres extend between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the lens and are arranged in concentric lamellae parallel to the surface. Each lamella consists of a single layer of lens fibres joined at their broad surfaces. Their extremities are slightly enlarged. At the two surfaces of the lens these extremities are in contact with one another in the sutures, or the rays of the so-called lens-stars. In the lens of the new- born child the star both of the anterior and posterior surface consists of about three rays radiating alternately from the anterior and posterior pole towards the lens margin. In the lens of the adult each of the three rays possesses three or more secondary rays. These sutures extend from the surface of the lens towards the centre, and when viewed in the fresh organ appearas very fine and wavy lines, but after treatment with hardening reagents, or better still after boiling, they appear as narrower or broader clefts. In the natural state these sutures contain a semifluid homogeneous interstitial cement-substance. The same substance is present between the lamellae, and also, though in a lesser quantity; between the fibres of the same lamella. This interstitial substance is the same as met with in all other organs,viz. the interfascicular substance of fibrous connective tissue, the cement-substance of epithelium and endothelium, of unstriped muscle cells, &c. In the interlamellar cement-substance of the lens longer or shorter, broader or narrower channels may be met with in some places ; in transverse sections they appear as polyhedral discontinuities between the lamellae. Fine canals extend from them between the lens fibres of the same lamella. I therefore agree with O. Becker against Babuchin and Arnold that there exist channels in the interstitial substance, which probably have not