229 STRUCTURE OF LIVER CELLS. the ordinary sense, but they form within each lobule one continuous mass of cells per- meated only by the capillary blood-vessels (Hering); owing to the peculiar arrangement of the latter a vertical section through the lobule shows a network of longer radiating and short transverse masses of liver cells. The latter are about of the same size through- out the liver, but there are some, especially near the margin of the lobules, that are smaller than the rest. Their shape is polyhedral (in section pentagonal or hexagonal) or sometimes slightly elongated, their surface smooth and separated by a hyaline inter- stitial substance. Kolatschewsky isolated liver cells that were possessed of processes. The substance of the cells appears uniformly granular, but is in reality a beautiful honeycombed network (Kupffer, Klein). It is probable that during activity the meshes of the intracellular network are larger, and hence also the cell as a whole becomes enlarged. Each cell possesses one spherical or slightly oval nucleus; in the liver of rabbit it is common to find cells with two nuclei; in some livers there are liver cells without any nucleus (Asp, Peszke). The nucleus is limited by a thin membrane, and includes an intranuclear network, in which occasionally one or two thickenings, nucleoli, are seen. The intranuclear network forms a continuity with the intracellular one ; the network of contiguous cells is likewise in connection with one another (Klein). Besides the liver cells and capillary blood-vessels there are in each lobule numerous minute cylindrical canals, the bile capillaries, which form a network closed in itself (Hering). These bile capillaries run between the contiguous liver cells, so that the meshes of their network are of the size and shape of the cells (Hering, Eberth, Kolliker). The bile capillaries when viewed in section are found in the angle where three or more liver cells meet (Eberth, Peszke). They are never present between liver cells and ca- pillary blood-vessels (Hering, Peszke). Owing to the radiating arrangement of the whole mass of the liver cells, we meet in many places with bile capillaries extending for - a considerable distance, in a similar, i.e. radiating, manner, and giving off short lateral branchlets ; this gives rise to the appearance, as it were, of long chief bile capillaries and short lateral secondary branchlets. Some observers assume a special delicate membrana propria forming the wall of the bile capillaries (MacGillavry, Chrzonszewski, Asp, Peszke, Davis and others), while Hering, Eberth, Kolliker and others deny the existence of a definite membrane, as that, for instance, forming the membrana propria of other gland ducts, and assume that the liver cells themselves form the immediate boundary of the bile capillaries. The bile ducts are situated in the interlobular connective tissue ; they are the efferent ducts: tubes with a relatively large lumen, a lining columnar epithelium and a limiting membrana propria with regularly disposed oblong nuclei in it, most pro- bably owing to its being an endothelial membrane. The largest ducts are surrounded