313 ADIPOSE TISSUE OF SKIN. tissue. Fine bundles of connective tissue and connective-tissue cells penetrate together with the capillaries into the interior of the lobule between the fat-cells. As regards the structure, arrangement, and development of the fat-cells the reader is referred to Chapter VI. pp. 42 and 43. I wish to add here that just as in other parts of the body, as in the serous and mucous membranes, in the loose tissue connecting neighbouring organs, &c., so also in the skin the foetal fat tissue contains larger or smaller vascularised groups of cells which are in various stages of transformation into fat-cells, that is to say, whose protoplasm contains only a few or not even any oil globules. Gradually the oil globules make their appearance in all cells, and their number in each cell becoming greater, they become confluent into one large oil globule which now is the most conspicuous part of the cell ; the protoplasm with the oval nucleus at one side forms a mantle around the oil globule, as has been described in Chapter VI. Now, what I wish specially to point out is, that even in the stage when few or no oil globules have appeared as yet in the above cells, these latter, being placed closely side by side, give one the impression that they all are spherical or oval cells slightly pressed against one another and separated from place to place by a capillary blood-vessel only. In reality, however, these cells are possessed of finer or broader processes, by which they anastomose with one another; the number of these processes is not however very large. In a section through a hardened ganglion, the individual ganglion cells appear to be without processes, although in reality they may be possessed of one, two, or more. At an early stage of development, when the lobule consists only of few cells, their nature of branched connective-tissue cells can be easier recognised. The very numerous lymphatics supplying the lobules of adipose tissue will be described below. The Sweat-glands. They are exceedingly numerous, and distributed uniformly in most regions of the skin. Each sweat-gland is a simple tube composed of a coiled portion, or the gland proper, situated in the subcutaneous tissue, and a duct, passing in a more or less vertical or oblique direction and slightly wavy through the corium, and opening on the free surface of the epidermis. The coils in the same gland are separated by a small amount of connective tissue, containing the numerous capillary blood-vessels, lymphatics, and in some places also a few fat-cells. Beginning with the free opening, or the mouth, we trace the duct as a narrow canal,— at one place flattened and cleft-like, at another more cylindrical,—and limited by a bright homogeneous membrane, through all the layers of the epidermis in a more or less zigzag or spiral manner. The epidermic cells or scales respectively immediately surrounding the