GRAFIAN FOLLICLES. 287 form almost a continuous layer two or three deep underneath the albuginea, the cortical layer ofSchronn. This has been found (Romiti) to be the case in all mammals. From the superficial layer of small Grafian follicles to the deep-seated big ones are all gra- dations. The small Grafian follicles are generally spherical, the middle-sized ones sphe- rical or oblong, and the largest are spherical, or more or less elongated or irregular; the last-named are possessed of one, two, or more prolongations (see below). As mentioned above, the bundles of spindle-shaped cells of the stroma pass in between and around the Grafian follicles, both where they are in groups and isolated ; the amount of stroma is of course greater between the groups than between the individual follicles of a group. The spindle-shaped cells possess a more or less distinct concentric arrange- ment around the large Grafian follicles, thus forming a special outer membrane for the latter; this is the tunica fibrosa of Henle. The larger the follicle the more developed is the network of blood capillaries in this outer tunic. Each Grafian follicle, including the smallest, is limited by a membrana propria (Kol- liker, Foulis, Balfour and others), which is thicker in the larger follicles than in the smaller ones. It contains here and there a flattened oval nucleus, which appears staff- shaped when viewed in profile. Inside the membrana propria are the epithelial cells, or the membrana granulosa of the Grafian follicle, and in the centre of the follicle is the ovum. In the smallest follicles, that is, in those next the albuginea, the membrana propria is a very delicate membrane, and between it and the ovum is a single layer of trans- parent and very flattened cells, each with a flattened or spherical nucleus. The ovum appears here as the most conspicuous part. In the follicles of the next size, the epithe- lium lining the membrana propria also consists of only one layer, but its cells are poly- hedral, each with a spherical nucleus. Then follow follicles whose epithelium is composed of columnar cells still in one layer. In the next larger follicles the cells are in more than one layer, and in the largest they are in three, four, or more layers. The outermost cells, viz. the cells next the membrana propria, are distinctly columnar, placed vertically, and each contains an oval nucleus ; those of the other layers, however, are smaller, transparent, and polyhedral, each with a spherical nucleus. The cells are separated from one another by a linear interstitial cement-substance. In well preserved specimens there is a very delicate reticulum to be met with in this cement-substance ; its meshes differ greatly in size, in some places they are not larger than one cell, in others each contains several cells. A few oval or angular or irregularly shaped nuclei maybe found in this reticulum. It stretches from the membrana propria inwards, and in all probability is analogous to the nucleated reticulum of the seminal and other gland tubes, mentioned on former pages as supporting the epithelial cells.