ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 262 The venous branches are distributed in the labyrinth, in the following manner. The capillaries of the peripheral layer of the cortex, viz. that without Malpighian corpuscles, lead into minute venous rootlets which open into a vena stellata, called so from the manner of the arrangement of its rootlets. Each vena stellata passes into the labyrinth of the cortex, and accompanies the arteria interlobularis as the vena interlobularis. On its way it takes up transverse branches coming from the capillary network of the labyrinth. The venae interlobulares lead into the venous trunks situated between the cortex and medulla. b) In the medulla. From the large arterial trunks situated between the cortex and boundary layer short branches are given off, which having entered the latter split up into bundles of straight arterioles, the arteriolae rectae. The vessels belonging to one such bundle are all arterioles, and their number is increased by the addition of the vas efferens of the Malpighian corpuscles situated next the boundary layer. These arterioles run in the boundary layer between the bundles of urinary tubules which, as mentioned on a former page, are the continuations of the medullary rays. On their way towards the papilla their number gradually decreases as they pass laterally into a network of capillaries for the urinary tubules, the meshes of which are elongated. At the margin of the cortex and medulla the capillaries of the former are con- tinuous with those of the latter. The veins originate as single vessels, beginning at the papilla, and their number is gradually increased by vessels coming out from the capillary network of the urinary tubules. Just like the arteries, so also the veins form bundles, venae rectae ; these bundles are very considerable while running through the boundary layer between the continuations of the medullary rays. They empty themselves into the trunks situated between the cortex and medulla. The bundle of urinary tubules forming, in the boundary layer, the continuation of a medullary ray, has on one side a bundle of arteriae rectae, and on the other one of venae rectae ; and between them there is a network of capillary vessels with elongated meshes winding round the urinary tubules. Near the papilla the vessels form a uniform network with elongated meshes, and on the summit of the papilla itself we find around the mouth of each urinary duct a very delicate network of capillary veins. In the foregoing description of the blood-vessels, I have followed Ludwig in his article on the Kidney, in Strieker’s ‘Manual of Histology.’ The diagram 3 of Plate XXXVII a., copied from Ludwig, gives a clear view of the distribution of the vessels in the cortex and medulla.