DISTRIBUTION OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 261 The Blood-vessels. These form distinct sets of vessels for the membrane of the pelvis, for the capsule, for the cortex, and finally for the medulla. Those of the pelvis and calices terminate as a network of capillaries underneath the epithelium. The arterial branches of the capsule are derived either from the extrarenal parts or from the cortical arteries, viz. from the interlobular branches. The efferent veins of the capsule are likewise of two kinds, viz. such as empty themselves into extrarenal veins and others leading into the stellate veins of the cortex. The former generally run in twos, in company with the arterial branches. The capillaries of the capsule are very numerous, and form a network with uniform meshes. The large trunks of the arteries and veins, both for the cortex and medulla, penetrate, as already mentioned, from the submucous tissue of the pelvis into the boundary between cortex and medulla, whence they send off or take up respectively the branches supplying the cortex and medulla. a) In the cortex. The arterial branches ascend from the first-named trunks in the middle of the sections of the labyrinth situated between two neighbouring medullary rays. These arterial branches are called the interlobular branches. While ascending towards the periphery of the cortex they give off from all sides of their circumference short vessels, the afferent arterioles, running transversely, one for each Malpighian corpuscle, where they break up into the network of capillaries forming the glomerulus described on a previous page. Some of the afferent arterioles before entering the Malpighian corpuscle give off a short lateral branchlet that breaks up into capillaries for the convoluted tubules. Many arteriae interlobulares are exhausted when they reach the periphery of the cortex, that is the part that does not contain any Malpighian corpuscles ; but some penetrate into this layer, and terminate in the capillary blood-vessels, surrounding with their meshes the convoluted tubules; and finally a small number pass even beyond this layer and penetrate into the outer capsule, as mentioned above. The efferent vessel of the Malpighian corpuscle is a venous vessel, and breaks up into a dense network of capillaries that entwine all tubes both of the labyrinth, including the peripheral layer, as well as of the medullary rays, the meshes of the former being more round, those of the latter elongated. In addition to the efferent vessel of the Malpighian corpuscles, the above-named branches of the afferent arterioles, and, for the peripheral layer of the cortex, the last outrunners of the interlobular arteries are to be named as supplying the capillaries of the cortex. The network of capillaries of the labyrinth and medullary rays forms one continuous system for the whole cortex. RR2