ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 424 small trabeculae. I have seen them even in the finest trabeculae. In the laree trabeculae they are met with as longitudinal bundles belonging, as it were, to the adventitia of the large vessels embedded in the trabeculae. The trabeculae of the spleen of the ape contain a great amount of longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscle cells, and in most mammals the trabeculae are almost entirely muscular. The parenchyma consists of the Malpighian corpuscles and the pulp. To understand the former it is necessary to follow the arterialbranches of the spleen. The splenic artery, having entered the organ in company with the vein, is embedded in trabecular continuations of the tissue of the hilum, which, as mentioned above, consist of connective tissue and a variable amount of unstriped muscle tissue. The artery soon leaves the vein and divides dendritically into smaller branches. Most of these are ensheathed not in fibrous connective tissue but in adenoid tissue. As long as the larger branches of the artery are embedded in the trabeculae, there exists in and around their adventitia a continuous system of lymph-spaces, interfascicular spaces, and lymph-vessels (Kyber). But on the smaller arterial branches these lymphatics are replaced by a solid mass of adenoid tissue which now surrounds the vessel like a cylindrical sheath. These adenoid sheaths are supplied from their respective arteries with elongated meshes of capillary blood-vessels. The tissue thus constituted represents what is commonly described as the Malpighian corpuscles. As a rule the amount of the adenoid tissue around the same arterial branch varies from place to place, now becoming reduced to a very thin layer, then again suddenly enlarging into a conspicuous oval or cylindrical body. But in all instances it is simply an accumulation of vascular adenoid tissue in the sheath of the arterial branches. The latter are surrounded by it in an unequal manner ; in most instances there is a greater amount of the adenoid tissue on the one side of the vessel than on the other, only in few cases the tissue ensheathes the artery in an uniform manner. Hence in the majority of cases a transverse section through the artery and its sheath shows the former in an excentric position. In man and mammals these adenoid masses form, as just mentioned, in some places spherical or oval enlargements, but they always retain the character of sheaths around the arterial branches, supplied by these latter with networks of capillaries. The apparently isolated spherical or oval masses of adenoid tissue seen in sections through the spleen, on careful examination always show the artery transversely or obliquely cut; they are therefore transverse or oblique sections through cylindrical masses. And for this reason it is incorrect to describe the Malpighian corpuscles, as is occasionally done, viz. as isolated spherical or oval masses of adenoid tissue. Many arterial branches terminate in these adenoid masses, breaking up ulti-