45 CHAPTER VII. PIGMENT-CELLS. Pigment-cells proper (Chromatophores) are nucleated and branched connective-tissue corpuscles, the substance of which is filled, more or less uniformly, with pigment- granules. Their distribution is greater in the lower than in the higher vertebrates, and varies in different organs; thus, for instance, the skin of lower vertebrates (fishes and amphibia) is by far the richest in pigment-cells, the internal connective tissues possess also a certain amount of pigment-cells, and the eye is supplied with pigment- cells in all vertebrates except albinos. The pigment-cells in the skin of lower vertebrates are as a rule flattened and larger than ordinary not-pigmented connective- tissue corpuscles ; their pigment varies not only in its colour—being under the microscope black, yellowish, bluish, greenish, or grey—but also in the shape of its particles, these varying from very minute spherical or angular granules to large elliptical or irregularly shaped plates and clumps. The amount and distribution of pigment in a cell determines the deeper or lighter shade of its colour. In the skin of lower vertebrates the pigment-cells in the state of rest are exceedingly richly branched cells, each with a nucleus, their dark (pigmented) branches anasto- mosing with each other and with those of their neighbours. The cell-substance seems, in some instances, to be almost entirely distributed in the pigmented processes, that is to say, there is not a conspicuous mass of pigmented matter as cell-body to be noticed around the nucleus. The same holds good for the serous membranes of lower vertebrates where the net- work of pigmented cells forms more or less continuous sheaths around arteries and veins. In the tissue of the iris and chorioides, and in the suprachorioides of man, and especially of dark-eyed mammals (sheep, ox), the pigment-cells are flattened nucleated cells, in which a relatively large cell-body surrounding the nucleus gives off numerous filamentous or platelike processes anastomosing with each other and with those of neighbouring cells. Pigment-cells alter their shape ; they are contractile under various influences, being capable of gradually withdrawing their pigmented processes : first they change from richly branched cells into cells with fewer processes, then the number of processes becomes smaller and these at the same time less branched, and finally all the pigment is retracted into an oval or slightly angular or spherical mass. This change has been H 2