STRUCTURE OF THE CORIUM. 3” thus represent the rudiments of the intraepithelial branched cells, as just described of the adult organs. The Corium. The boundary between the stratum Malpighii of the epidermis and the super- ficial part of the corium is represented by a fine but distinct membranous structure, basement membrane, which is very conspicuous in preparations stained with dyes. While in some instances it appears as a bright substance separating the deepest layer of epithelial cells from the corium, in others it takes the staining very readily. But in all instances it appears to be merely the deepest portion of the epithelium and, in fact, is made up of the basis of the individual epithelial cells which has undergone a chemical and morphological alteration. The basement membrane is then a direct product of the deepest layer of the epithelium, and its several constituent elements are comparable to the foot-plate (Fussplatte : Lott, Rollett, and others) of the deepest or columnar cells of stratified epithelium. The superficial part of the corium is raised as conical or cylindrical papillae. These vary to a very great extent, both as regards their number and their size in different locali- ties, and at different points of the same locality. They are best developed in the corium of the human skin. The papillae are largest in the palm of the hand, on the volar side of the fingers, and the sole of the foot; they are well shown on the scalp, lips of mouth, less so in the thin parts of the skin, as on the inside of the thigh and arm. In all instances, however, there exist the greatest differences as regards breadth and shape ; thus, for in- stance, in the scalp and other localities we meet with rudimentary thin and narrow papillae next to, or between well developed broad conical or cylindrical ones. In connection with this it is necessary to bear in mind that many papillae, being flattened from side to side, may in section present themselves either from their broad or narrow side. The matrix of the corium consists of bundles of fibrous connective tissue forming smaller or larger groups—trabeculae, which cross each other and interlace in a complex manner, and so produce the feltlike density of the tissue of the skin. In the super- ficial parts of the corium, including the papillae, the bundles and their groups are small and their division and mode of interlacing is intricate ; in the deeper parts, or the sub- cutaneous tissue, the trabeculae or groups of bundles are large ; they branch, re-unite, and cross each other in many directions. For this reason the superficial part of the corium contains much smaller and more numerous interfascicular spaces than the deeper parts. In the former there is all through the matrix a more or less uniform distribution of the hyaline interstitial interfascicular substance containing the lymph-canalicular system with its branched connective-tissue corpuscles, while in the latter there are larger and