96 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The lateral group extends, in the cervical portion, into the white matter, i.e. in amongst the medullated nerve fibres. In the cervical swelling of the cord of calf the lateral group appears to be subdivided into an anterior group of large, and a posterior one of small spindle-shaped ganglion cells. In the posterior horns the ganglion cells are arranged as small groups in the anterior part, and as numerous isolated cells in the middle and lateral parts. The former are much larger than the latter, which are the smallest ganglion cells in the grey matter. A few small ganglion cells are present also around the ‘ central grey nucleus ’ (Gerlach). The ganglion cells are relatively large, branched cells, containing in some animals small masses of yellow pigment. Numerous minute fibrils can be distinguished in the cell substance (Max Schultze) ; these fibrils are connected with each other in a network. Each cell possesses in about the centre a large oval nucleus composed of a well-defined membrane, and containing an intranuclear network ; in about the middle of this is a large highly refractive thickening—nucleolus. Most ganglion cells, especially the large ones, are surrounded by a lymph-space, pericellular space, through which pass the processes of the cell. Their shape varies considerably, some cells being very elongated, others less so. But they are all possessed of several processes, i.e. they are multipolar. Some ganglion cells, especially those of the posterior horns, appear spindle-shaped, but each extremity is branched into several processes. Carriere found ganglion cells in the anterior horns anatomosing with one another by means of shorter or longer processes. The processes of the ganglion cells are of two kinds, branched and unbranched. The former are, just like the body of the ganglion cells, composed of fibrils, which run in a longitudinal direction and appear to pass in a fanlike manner from the pro- cesses into the body of the cell (Max Schultze). The branched processes ramify dichotomously into fine filaments. The unbranched processes are pale and finely striated bands, very attenuated where they join the cell-body; they represent the axis- cylinder processes discovered by Deiters. Gerlach has proved that they are present only in the ganglion cells of the anterior horns. The axis-cylinder process is generally single, occasionally there are two in one cell. After having left the cell-body the axis cylinder soon becomes ensheathed in a medullary sheath, that is, becomes converted into a medullated nerve fibre, which passes into an anterior nerve root. 2) The nerve fibres of the grey matter are of different kinds : (a) the great bulk of the grey matter is composed of a minute and dense network of fine fibrils ; this has been first demonstrated by Gerlach. Deiters had already proved that the (medullated) nerve fibres which pass through the posterior nerve roots (either directly or