36 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. b) Or, the bundles are arranged in parallel groups, as in tendons, ligaments and fasciae ; in the latter the lamellae of parallel bundles may cross each other under various angles. To this category belongs also the cornea, although bundles of one lamella anastomose with those of the next upper or lower one. c) In the loose cellular tissue, such as subcutaneous-, submucous- and intermuscular tissue, or in the connective tissue around vessels, nerves and glands, &c., the connective- tissue bundles are arranged as smaller or larger trabeculae which branch and anastomose with one another, and crossing each other in more than one direction, they leave between them spaces of relatively considerable size,—the ‘ cells ’ of gross anatomists ; and hereby the tissue possesses a certain loose and spongy structure. These spaces belong to the lymphatic system, as will be described in detail in a future chapter. By the injection of air, mercury, water or other fluids, or warm (fluid) gelatine (Ranvier) into this tissue, its bulk becomes of course enlarged, but the enlargement is uniform, owing to the air or fluids being able to spread into all its spaces (‘ cells ’), these intercom- municating with each other. In oedema it is chiefly such loose connective tissue that swells up by the exuded plasma to a greater extent than other parts. d) Dense connective tissue, as in skin, mucous membranes, many serous-, synovial- and kindred membranes, and dura mater, contains bundles of fibrous tissue very closely arranged, these being much branched and crossing each other in all different directions. In this manner a dense feltwork is produced. In serous- and synovial membranes, as well as in the dura mater, there are, however, parts, especially in the immediate neighbourhood of the large vessels, where the connective-tissue bundles possess a parallel arrangement. In combination with fibrous-connective tissue we always find a greater or less amount of elastic tissue (yellow elastic tissue). This tissue differs in morphological and chemical respects from fibrous-connective tissue: elastic-tissue fibrils do not as a rule form bundles like the fibrils of fibrous-connective tissue ; they are branched and anastomose with each other so as to form a real network ; they do not swell up, but remain unaltered by boiling, acids or alkalies, and do not yield glutin but elastin; when torn they curl up at their ends. The arrangement and distribution of elastic fibres is this:— i) They are fine homogeneous and sharply outlined fibrils branching and anasto- mosing with each other in a network ; the network is in some places close, in others very open, owing to the richness or scarcity of the number of the fibrils and their branches ; the fibrils are straight or they are very wavy and twisted, but this depends in a great