358 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. only an important bearing on the changes of the shape of the lens during accommoda- tion, but are also essential in the nutrition of the organ. 2. The vitreous body is enclosed in a capsule, the membrana hyaloidea. This is a hyaline quite structureless delicate membrane. It increases in thickness towards the ora serrata, and forms here the Zonula ciliaris. It does not cover the fossa patellaris of the corpus vitreum (Ivanoff, Schwalbe), but passes from the margin of this latter to the margin of the lens as the Zonula Zinnii, thus forming the anterior wall of the lymphatic canal known as canalis Petiti. Like the rest of the hyaloidea, the Zonula ciliaris is hyaline, but contains longitudinal thin, and stiff elastic fibres, which over the ciliary processes and towards the root of the iris increase in number and thickness. They become at the same time grouped into bundles. In sections of hardened preparations the Zonula ciliaris remains adhering to the surface of the ciliary processes, and the bundles of its stiff fibres are very marked. Immediately underneath the hyaloidea are found isolated small granular-looking cells, each with a single or double transparent nucleus. These cells are the subhyaloid cells of Ciaccio. They are possessed of amoeboid movement (Ivanoff), and are met with not only in the region of the corpus vitreum, but also in that of the Zonula ciliaris. According to Ivanoff similar cells occur also between the hyaloidea and the retina. The substance of the corpus vitreum, that is the humor vitreus in man and mammals, appears, according to almost all observers (Briicke, Hannover, Bowman, Doncan, Still- ing, Ivanoff, Gerlach, Smith, Schwalbe, and many others), arranged in layers separated from one another by clefts. These clefts possess in the peripheral parts a more con- centric arrangement, and they radiate from here towards the centre. According to more recent observers, especially Stilling, Ivanoff, and Schwalbe, these spaces are not lined with any membranous structures. In the centre of the adult corpus vitreum exists the canalis hyaloideus or canal of Stilling; it extends from the papilla optici to the posterior capsule of the lens, and is lined with a hyaline membrane, a continuation of the membrana hyaloidea. It is not to be confounded with the canal of the embryonal corpus vitreum containing the arteria hyaloidea. Of solid structures there exist in the adult corpus vitreum few and scarce fibres ; they are the remnants of the embryonal vessels (Lieberkiihn). Ivanoff mentions in the region of the ora serrata fibres which are supposed by him to pass into the Zonula ciliaris of the hyaloidea, but this must be questioned. Schwalbe saw in the human corpus vitreum in one instance fine bundles of fibrils. Similar to the subhyaloid cells of the surface, mentioned above, there exist similar cells close to the membrane lining the canal of Stilling (Schwalbe). In the substance