14 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. PLATE III. Figs. I. II. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII.a are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350. Figs. III. and VIII.b under a magnifying power of about 550. Figure I. Epithelial cells of trachea of dog, in groups and isolated. Those that reach the free surface of the membrane are provided with fine cilia; they are conical) their free basis directed towards the surface. Between these fit others, more or less spindle-shaped or of an inverted conical shape, having their pointed extremity directed upwards—stratified columnar epithelium. Both the basis of the latter and the pointed extremity of the former and latter are provided in many instances with two or more fine branches. An oval nucleus is found in each superficial cell. Some of the minute details of structure are not shown in this or many of the following drawings of Plates III. and IV., since the shape and arrangement of the cells is at present our principal object. Fig. II. From a transverse section through the trachea of cat, showing the stratified epithelium composed of the superficial conical cells with cilia and the deeper non- ciliated cells of an inverted conical shape, i.e. their base directed downwards. This base contains the spherical nucleus. In the right section of the figure some of the superficial cells have lost their cover and cilia, and are goblet cells containing mucus which is being poured out. Underneath the epithelium is seen a connective-tissue membrane with the nuclei of the connective-tissue corpuscles; these latter are not represented; and finally underneath this layer is one that contains a great number of bright dots, being the cut ends of elastic fibres running a longitudinal course. A similar stratified columnar epithelium (ciliated) is present in other parts of the re- spiratory tract; e.g. nasal cavity, larynx (except the epiglottis, the true and part of the false vocal cords) and larger bronchi. The central canal of the spinal cord, the small bronchi, the fundus uteri and the oviduct contain simple columnar epithelium with cilia. So does also the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx and oesophagus of amphibian animals. Fig. III. The first (unlettered) cell is a goblet cell of stomach of newt, showing the intranuclear network in connection with fibrils of the intracellular network ; the upper part of the cell is greatly swollen up by the presence of mucus, stained slightly with carmine. a) A nucleus of a glandular epithelial cell of stomach of newt, showing the intra nuclear network. b) A similar nucleus of an epithelial cell of the surface of the same organ.