142 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The basilar artery has no inner longitudinal muscles, whereas the subclavia has them exceptionally well developed. The umbilical artery possesses on the inner surface of the media, of the ordinary structure, a continuous longitudinal muscle coat, and also on the outer surface of it (media) are a few longitudinal muscle bundles (Eberth). The different coats bear a definite relation to one another : the adventitia is relatively thickest in the minute arteries, being here nearly as thick as the middle coat, it is inferior in thickness to the media in middle-sized and large arteries; in the latter it amounts only to a fraction of the media, and in the first part of the aorta it is reduced to a very delicate membrane. The media is in all arteries, in virtue of its thickness, the most conspicuous coat. The intima increases in thickness towards the aorta; in the micro- scopically minute arteries it is a very delicate simple membrane. The endothelium is everywhere a single layer of cell-plates. 3. Veins. Following a capillary vessel towards the venous system, we first come upon the capillary veins : these are broader than the former, and possess, just like the capillary arteries, a delicate nucleated membrane as adventitia and a very thin membrane, com- posed of a network of longitudinal fine elastic fibres, as intima. The lining endothelial cells are somewhat shorter and broader than those of the capillaries, and their outlines more or less sinuous. What has been said as regards stigmata and stomata in the endothelium of capillaries holds good also for veins (Arnold). There is no muscle tissue, as a media, to be met with in these venous capillaries, and the thickness of their wall as compared with the size of their lumen is therefore greatly inferior to that in the minute arteries. And this same inferiority persists in all veins, viz. their wall is much thinner, and their lumen larger, than in the corresponding branches of the arterial system. As the capillary veins pass into larger branches, the adventitia increases in thick- ness by the addition of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, which are accompanied by the ordinary flattened connective-tissue corpuscles. The (microscopically) large branches of veins show the first traces of a muscular media, the muscle cells being placed transversely; the intima is only slightly thicker than in capillary veins. In the venous trunks we find (a) a relatively thick adventitia, composed chiefly of longitudinal and oblique trabeculae of fibrous-connective tissue, in the interfascicular spaces are the ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles; thicker and thinner elastic fibres run pre-eminently in a longitudinal direction and form a network. (b) The media contains, in most instances, transverse bundles of unstriped muscle ; they never form such continuous layers, and are not separated by elastic membranes, as in arteries, the bundles being separated from each other chiefly by fibrous-connective tissue.