199 STRUCTURE OF TASTE GOBLETS. of the tonsils, root of tongue, or soft palate, and have made their escape through the epithelium of these organs. Like other lymph corpuscles they exhibit the power of amoeboid movement. Under the influence of water they swell up into spherical corpuscles, containing numerous granules that show very lively Brownian molecular movement. In this latter aspect they generally present themselves in the saliva and mucus taken from the oral cavity. Taste organs.—The circumvallate papillae, many fungiform papillae, and certain permanent folds at the side of the root of the tongue of man and mammals are distin- guished by the presence of taste goblets, discovered by Schwalbe and Loven. The description of their structure, as given by Schwalbe, is in its chief points still generally accepted. Each taste goblet is a goblet-shaped or elliptical organ, embedded vertically in the stratified epithelium in such a manner that one end of it is on the free surface, the other touches the tissue of the mucosa, and the sides are bordered by the epithelium. This latter forms a special covering for the taste goblet by a layer of flattened epithelial cells, imbricated one with the other, and each possessed of a flattened circular nucleus. The goblet itself contains : (a) the peripheral or tegmental cells (Schwalbe, Loven), which by their peculiar arrangement determine the shape of the goblet. They are elongated, spindle-shaped, slightly flattened cells, each with a flattened circular or oval nucleus; they are occasionally branched (Schwalbe). (6) The central cells, or taste cells (Engelmann) : these are slender, spindle-shaped or staff-shaped cells, each with a spherical nucleus in about the middle of the cell. Both extremities are filamentous; the outer extremity projects as a fine hairlike process a short distance beyond the free opening of the goblet, while the inner extremity is directed towards the mucosa, and is in some instances branched in two fine processes (Engelmann). Great numbers of nerves are found in the mucosa near the taste goblets, and, according to Engelmann, and especially Honigschmied, fine nerve fibrils are directly connected with the taste cells. The taste goblets have a wide distribution in man and mammals. They are found in rows, at the base of the circumvallate papillae, at the base of many fungiform papillae, in the permanent folds known under the name of papillae foliatae (Weber), and occurring at the side of the human tongue and the tongue of many mammals, especially in rabbit, where they form on each side a very conspicuous organ. In the papilla foliata the taste goblets occur in three or four closely placed rows at the base of the fold. v. Wyss and Engelmann minutely described them in the papilla foliata of rabbit, v. Ajtai in the papilla foliata of man, Honigschmied showed their distri- bution in the papillae circumvallatae and foliatae of many mammals, Krause and Hoff- mann observed them in the fungiform papillae of man, and the latter author described H h 2