428 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The Lymphatics.—As has been shown by Tomsa and Kyber, the capsule contains a plexus of large lymphatic vessels, the superficial lymphatics of Tomsa or the capsular lymphatics of Kyber. They are continuous with the lymphatics of the tra- beculae. These latter appear as dense plexuses either of real tubes or of lymph clefts situated within the trabeculae, or at their margin between their surface and the adjacent pulp tissue. The lymphatics of the trabeculae anastomose with the plexus of the lymphatics situated in the sheath of the arterial trunks, the perivascular lamphatics of Kyber. These latter are either tubular lymphatics or merely a network of intercommunicating lymph-sinuses. They extend along the arteries, and penetrate also as minute clefts and lacunae into the adenoid tissue (Tomsa). The pulp tissue does not contain any lymphatics (Tomsa, Kyber), except at the margin of the trabeculae. In the hilum large lymphatics of the capsule are directly connected with the perivascular lymphatics (Kyber). The nerves occur as pale non-medullated fibres in the immediate neighbourhood of the arteries. According to W. Muller they seem to terminate in the capillary sheaths of Schweigger-Seidel, above mentioned. PLATE XLVII. Fig. I. From a vertical section through the spleen of the guinea-pig ; the blood- vessels are injected with carmine gelatine. Magnifying power about 60. 1. The arterial branches are ensheathed in the Malpighian corpuscles, indicated as densely aggregated nuclei. 2. Between the Malpighian corpuscles is the pulp tissue, showing a dense net- work of minute spaces. 3. The venous radicles or sinuses. Fig. II. From the spleen of the ape; the blood-vessels are injected with carmine gelatine. Magnifying power about 300. 1. Trabeculse containing unstriped muscle cells. 2. The network of venous sinuses, lined with endothelium. 3. Venous sinuses in transverse section; the outer supporting fibrils are shown as if cut away obliquely. The pulp tissue shows the minute blood spaces and channels very well injected. Fig. III. From the same preparation as fig. I. but more highly magnified; about 350.