ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 70 b) The transparent region of the large cartilage lacunae. The cartilage cells are very transparent and swollen up ; the cartilage ground-substance is partly calcified. c) The region in which the cartilage lacunae have become confluent with the marrow cavities, the cartilage trabeculae being calcified, and more or less covered with osteoblasts ; into this region extend the capillary blood-vessels, terminating here as loops. Among the uninuclear osteoblasts there are a few multinuclear giant cells, which probably act here as chondroclasts. In the depth of this, and in the next region, d, the calcified cartilage trabeculae become more or less reduced in thickness, and covered with osseous substance (stained pink). This is more marked the further away from the intermediary cartilage. Fig. VII. From a similar preparation as that of the preceding figure, only more highly magnified, to show a large trabecula of calcified cartilage taken somewhere between c and d of the preceding figure. The upper part of the calcified cartilage, stained faintly blue, is covered with mul- tinuclear giant cells. These being placed on cartilage which is to be absorbed are very probably the instruments of absorption, and hence deserve the name of chondroclasts. Towards the depth, that is, towards the shaft, the cartilage becomes covered with osseous substance, stained pink, and numerous osteoblasts. Fig. VIII. From a longitudinal section through the spongy bone of shaft, but not far from the intermediary cartilage of femur of foetal kitten, to show the formation of osseous substance on the trabeculae of calcified cartilage represented in the preceding two figures. The section had been stained first in carmine and then in logwood. a) A marrow cavity containing a blood-vessel (with blood corpuscles), and a few marrow cells ; many of these had been accidentally removed from the prepara- tion. b) Calcified cartilage, stained faintly blue. It is covered either with isolated or continuous masses of osseous substance, stained pink. The isolated masses consist of a matrix of fibrils, a small cavity, and in this a nucleated cell ; this latter ought to be represented more branched. Each of these isolated masses is derived from one osteo- blast, of which the peripheral portion has become converted into the osseous matrix, while the part of the cell-substance immediately around the nucleus persists as the nucleated bone cell, this becoming at the same time branched, and separated from the matrix by a similarly branched lacuna. As development proceeds, these isolated masses become confluent into more or less continuous laminae.