425 MALPIGHIAN CORPUSCLES OF THE SPLEEN. mately into networks of capillaries, but in a good many instances, especially towards the periphery of the spleen, the adenoid sheath suddenly ceases, and the arterial branch, reduced in size, and, to a certain extent, also in structure, is continued beyond the sheath (see below). As regards the structure of the Malpighian corpuscles they contain adenoid tissue of the same nature as in other lymphatic organs, viz. a honeycombed adenoid reticulum with the flattened endotheloid plates fixed on it; each of these latter possesses a large oval flattened nucleus; in the meshes of the reticulum lie the ordinary lymphoid cells, most of them with one or two spherical nuclei surrounded by protoplasm. The capillary blood-vessels are not so numerous as in other adenoid tissues, e.g. in the cortical lymph-follicles of the compound lymphatic glands. But, just as in these, they obtain a special sheath from the adenoid reticulum and its endotheloid plates. The Malpighian corpuscles are everywhere on their periphery in immediate contact with the pulp, but the reticulum is here denser, its meshes smaller, and the lymphoid cells are closer (W. Muller). Thzpulp is no doubt the most difficult portion of the spleen. A small bit of fresh pulp teased out shows lymphoid corpuscles of various sizes, some with one, others with two or more nuclei, and all possessed of amoeboid movement (Cohnhein, Frey, and others) ; amongst them are some that contain in their interior coloured blood corpuscles or groups of smaller or larger clumps and granules of yellowish-brown pigment. Then there are flattened endotheloid plates, some larger, others smaller; some with one, others with two or more nuclei; then spindle-shaped or club-shaped cells. In a section through the well-hardened spleen the matrix of the pulp is a honey- combed structure, composed of flattened endotheloid plates, each with one or two oval flattened nuclei (Klein). In the pulp of the young spleen, especially in man, pig, rat and mouse, dog and guinea-pig, some of the cell plates contain a huge nucleus, lobed or beset with numerous knoblike prominences as if small nuclei were budding from it; it is finally split up into three, four, or more small nuclei (Kolliker, Klein). The cell-plates are possessed of finer, more fibrous, or as is more commonly the case, broader membranous processes coming off from them in various directions ; by the anastomosis of these processes the honeycombed nature is produced. The spaces are of various sizes, some not larger than a coloured blood corpuscle, others three, four, and more times the size. The cell-plates vary in size in different animals, and even in the various places of the spleen of the same animal. They are well shown in the pig, dog, and man. When