ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 3*6 The human anus is surrounded by an elliptical zone containing large coiled gland tubes, the circumanal glands of A. Gay. Each of these glands corresponds to a huge sweat-gland; it is composed of a duct and of the coiled tube which in its structure coin- cides with the distal part of the ordinary sweat-gland, viz. its epithelium is a single layer of transparent columnar cells ; outside these is a continuous longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells, and outside these is the thick homogeneous limiting membrana propria. The peculiar sweat-glands situated in the eyelid, and known as the glands of Moll, will be described in connection with the eyelid. The presence of a longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells was first pointed out by Kolliker in the sweat-glands of the axilla, of the root of penis, and of the nipple. Krause and Heynold found them in all glands. That the muscle coat is between the homogeneous membrana propria was pointed out by Kolliker, myself, Sangster, and Hesse; for the glands of Moll the same was pointed out by Sattler. That the duct of the sweat-gland possesses, next to the lumen, a homogeneous membrane, a sort of cuticle, was correctly described by Heynold and also by Horschelmann ; with the latter I find it also in the proximal part of the coiled tube. That the coiled tube of the sweat-gland of man, with the exception of the cerumi- nous and circumanal glands, consists of a smaller proximal and a longer and larger distal part has been indicated already by Heynold and Horschelmann, both of whom stated that the duct contributes to the formation of the coiled tube. According to Hesse the ducts of the sweat-glands of the axilla and anus often open into the mouth of a hair follicle. Renaut pointed out a difference of aspect during rest and secretion in the epithelial cells of the sweat-glands of the horse, being transparent with peripherally placed nucleus before, granular with central nucleus immediately after, secretion. The sweat glands in the earliest stages are solid knob-like projections of the stratum Malpighii into the tissue of the corium ; they appear closely at the side of the hairs but much later than the latter, about the fifth month in the human foetus. They are, like the stratum Malpighii of the foetus, composed of polyhedral small cells, each with a spherical nucleus. The cells of the outermost layer, however, like those of the deep layer of the stratum Malpighii, are slightly elongated, columnar. These rudiments grow through the corium into the subcutaneous tissue, where they begin to coil. Very soon, however, before they have grown far into the depth of the corium, the epithelium of the duct shows a distinction into central and marginal cells, the former being- much elongated and spindle-shaped. It is quite possible that these elongated cells are