ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 312 more continuous interfascicular channels and spaces and the connective-tissue cor- puscles, as mentioned on a former occasion, form more continuous endotheloid membranes. All blood-vessels and nerve branches, ducts, glands, hairs, &c., are situated in the interfascicular spaces. The fixed connective-tissue corpuscles of the skin have been described in Chapter IV. pp. 28 and 29; they are in the superficial parts of the corium small transparent cells, composed of chief and secondary plates, all of them possessing filamentous processes ; in the subcutaneous tissue they are larger and less branched; in some places they are even seen to form an endotheloid covering for the trabeculae. Each connective-tissue corpuscle includes an oval flattened nucleus, in which a fine reticulum can be made out. As regards the structure of these corpuscles refer to what has been said on p. 29. In the superficial parts of the corium, especially in the papillary body as well as in the deeper parts of the subcutaneous tissue containing the coiled tube of the sweat glands, we meet with a few migratory cells in the interfascicular spaces, besides the flattened connective-tissue corpuscles ; they are either small pale lymphoid corpuscles with one or two spherical nuclei, or they are two or three times larger, and possessed of coarse granules, which in some instances are brown pigment granules. The small pale corpuscles in the normal state are rare; the corpuscles with coarse granules are occasionally tolerably numerous even in the normal state; they move very slowly, possess a relatively large clear, spherical, or oval nucleus; they correspond to Waldeyer’s plasma cells. When unpigmented they assume in hsematoxylin a deep purplish-blue colour, and hence become very conspicuous. Considerable numbers of elastic fibres are present in all parts of the connective-tissue matrix of the corium ; these fibres are much more numerous in the subcutaneous tissue than in the superficial part of the corium, and in the papillae they are scarce. They present themselves as fine and coarse elastic fibres, connected by lateral branches into a network. The direction of these fibres is always parallel to that of the trabeculae, to the surface of which they are closely attached. In most instances we find fine and coarse elastic fibres side by side in the same place, but there exist great differences in the skin in different localities and of different individuals, both in the quality of the fibres, viz. whether fine or coarse, as well as in their number. The deep section of the subcutaneous tissue contains smaller or larger groups of fat- cells, or a continuous thicker or thinner stratum of fat-cells arranged in lobules, the adipose stratu m; between the lobules are thicker or thinner septa of fibrous connective