3i CONNECTIVE-TISSUE CORPUSCLES OF TENDON of silver. The corneal corpuscles themselves are not brought out. It is seen that a difference exists between the cornea of frog and kitten in the arrangement of the corneal corpuscles, or, what means the same, the lacunae of the lymph-canalicular system ; in the former the corneal corpuscles (or lacunae respectively) do not form groups as in the latter, but are more isolated, and anastomose with each other chiefly by processes. Fig. III. A portion of tendon of mouse, fresh stained with haematoxylin. The rows of oblong tendon-cells are seen between the bundles of fibrous tissue; these latter are indistinctly marked. The cells are slightly shrunk and therefore appear discontinuous. Being flat and curved, as stated above, they present themselves in various aspects ; in some rows they are viewed from the surface, i.e. are broad ; in others they are viewed in half profile, i.e. are narrower, and still in others they are seen in profile, and appear therefore like staff-shaped bodies. Fig. IV. From a tendon treated with dilute acid, in consequence of this the con- nective-tissue bundles have greatly swollen up. The fine processes coming off from the sides of the cell-plates are not represented. Some of the cells of the upper row show two longitudinal linear marks, those of the lower row show each one such mark. They have been explained on a former page as being due to each tendon-cell being composed of two or three small plates joining in one or respectively two ridges, according to whether the cells have to adapt themselves to the surface of two or three bundles. Above the upper row is a fine elastic fibre. In both figures III. and IV. the nuclei of the adjacent tendon cells of one row are in the contiguous extremity. This is easily explained by their being numerous cells in which division of the cell and its nucleus into two takes place. Fig. IV. Transverse section through a group of three microscopic tendons of tail of mouse, after staining them first in chloride of gold and then in logwood. The three tendons are contained in a common sheath of connective tissue, but each tendon has its own homogeneous elastic sheath. When isolated in the fresh state, and stained in nitrate of silver, it is seen that this elastic sheath is a membrane composed of a single layer of large endothelial plates. In the transverse section of each of these tendons we recognise large dark masses, being the channels between the groups of the tendon-bundles in transverse sections, men- tioned above as interfascicular channels ; these channels contain, besides the tendon, cells—not distinguishable here as such—also the albuminous fluid plasma, that in the fresh and living state circulates through them like through other lymph-spaces. This sub- stance has here become stained deeply with chloride of gold, just like the tendon-cells, and hence these latter are not discernible separately. In connection with these channels are fine septa,—the fine dark lines in the drawing,—which represent the cement-sub- stance by means of which the contiguous bundles are held together.