STRUCTURE OF REJVAL TUBULES. 267 d. Curved part of the collecting tube (12). Fig. VI. From a horizontal section through the papillary portion of the human kidney. Magnifying power about 300. In a uniformly stained transparent ground substance, which in reality is composed of fibrous connective-tissue, are seen urinary tubes and blood-vessels cut transversely. a. Large collecting tubes. b. Smaller ones. c. Tubes of Henle’s loops. d. Capillary blood-vessels. e. Venous capillaries; the endothelium is accidently detached from the wall of the vessels. Fig. VII. From a vertical section through the same kidney as in fig. I., showing under a very low power the adjoining portions of the cortex and the boundary layer. a. Labyrinth containing Malpighian corpuscles and convoluted tubules cut in various directions. b. Bundles of urinary tubules of the boundary layer continued into the cortex as the medullary rays. c. Bundles of blood-vessels, arterise or venae rectae. Fig. VIII. From a vertical section through the labyrinth of the kidney of the cat, into whose circulating blood carminate of ammonia had been injected. a. Convoluted tubules cut transversely. b. Part of a spiral tubule of the medullary ray. Between the tubules are capillary blood-vessels, injected with Berlin blue. The carmine is deposited, that is, has been excreted, not in the substance of the epithelial cells, but in the cement substance between them. When seen from the surface, the outlines of the epithelial cells are marked as a beautiful pink mosaic. Magnifying power about 350. Fig. IX. From a vertical section through the cortex of the human kidney as seen under a very low power. a. Capsule. b. Urinary tubules cut in various directions. c. Medullary rays and between them the labyrinth of tubules with Malpighian corpuscles. The medullary rays are lost at some distance from the capsule ; see the text of this chapter. Owing to the very low power structural distinctions of the urinary tubules cannot be recognised.