ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 44 into a fat-cell takes place in this way : there appear, in the protoplasmic substance of the connective-tissue corpuscle, small fat-globules, which increasing in number soon become confluent in one or two larger drops. The bulk of the cell becomes hereby, of course, greatly increased ; while the cell-body is thus filled with one or two large fat drops, the nucleus is pressed into the periphery, this being now the original proto- plasm of the cell-substance. In the ripe state the fat-cell contains one large fat-drop surrounded by a thin mantle of original protoplasm, in one place of which the oblong nucleus is to be seen. Thus the fat-cell may be described as a vesicle, whose wall is the original cell-protoplasm containing the nucleus, and whose contents is one large fat-drop. During starvation the fat-globule of the fat-cell disappears, and its place is taken by a clear serous fluid. In waste also this fluid disappears, and the fat-cell returns to the state of a solid protoplasmic corpuscle whence it started. In some instances fat-cells are formed also in other than the fixed connective-tissue corpuscles, viz. in the cells, which were mentioned in a former chapter as plasma-cells (Waldeyer), being larger than ordinary amoeboid connective-tissue corpuscles, pos- sessed of a single relatively large nucleus, and showing only slight amoeboid movement. They contain occasionally coarse granules staining deeply blue in haematoxylin; these granules are converted into fat-globules, which gradually become confluent, and we have then a fat-cell that does not differ from the fat-cell above described. This is, however, not the typical mode after which fat-cell tissue is produced, but only an incidental formation of fat in plasma-cells, especially to be observed under favourable conditions of alimentation. In the omentum of mouse and rat isolated plasma-cells may be noticed to undergo this change; also in the mesentery, in the subcutaneous tissue, in the connective tissue surrounding large vessels and nerve trunks, occasionally also in the intermuscular tissue of the tongue and other organs, the same change may be noticed.