274 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. length differs in different animals ; it appears homogeneous and rod-shaped ; attached to it is the filament, or tail, thinner and much longer than the middle piece, and ending in a pointed extremity. In triton and salamander the filament, or tail, is continued over the middle piece as a very conspicuous, wavy, or more or less spiral filament, but is sepa- rated from it (middle piece) by a thin homogeneous membrane (Leydig, Gibbes). This filament appears fixed to the blunt hind end of the head ; this latter contains here an oval bright corpuscle, and is a very long and slightly curved rod, ending in front in a pointed extremity. It is probable, from the observations of H. Gibbes : (a) that a similar arrangement exists also in man and mammals, viz. that the filament is continued over the middle piece as a fine wavy or spiral thread ; but here this thread lies close on the former, viz. the middle piece; and (<5) that there is a sheath which covers the hind part of the head and continued over the middle piece. In what relation do, then, these different parts of the fully formed spermatozoon stand to the parts of the developing element, that is, the spermatoblast ? A comparison shows at once that the head of the ripe spermatozoon is the changed nucleus of the spermatoblast; that the filament, or tail, is derived from what has been mentioned above as the granular body of the original cell. The middle piece of Schweigger Seidel is an outgrowth of the nucleus of the spermatoblast, that is, of the head of the sperma- tozoon, and the clear ttibe of the developing spermatozoon, described above as embrac- ing the hind part of the nucleus and separating the latter from the granular body, is the sheath which in some instances (triton and salamander) is observable on the middle piece of the fully-formed spermatozoon. The preceding statements very well agree with the observations of Kolliker, Henle, Schweigger Seidel, of v. la Valette St. George, as described in his exhaustive article on this subject in Strieker’s ‘ Manual of Histology,’ and in other subsequent publications, and of the important researches both of Merkel and Sertoli, which are to the effect that in mammalian animals, at any rate, the head of the spermatozoon is the transformed nucleus, while the filament, or tail, is derived from the body of the spermatoblast. While the spermatoblasts or the daughter cells of the inner seminal cells undergo the changes which lead to their conversion into spermatozoa, important alterations occur in their position and arrangement. As described on a former page, the spermatoblasts lie more or less loosely side by side next the lumen of the seminal tube, their number varying greatly in different parts. Now, as soon as the stage is reached when the nucleus is flattened, and, as it were, free of the cell body, and this latter converted into a club-