206 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. the lumen of the neck, but especially that of the body of the gland, is much larger than in the corresponding parts of the peptic gland: the lumen in the body of the former glands being many times larger than that of the latter. The epithelium covering the surface of the mucosa and lining the ducts in the pyloric region is exactly the same as in the rest of the stomach. The epithelium lining the neck and body of these glands is a continuation of that of the duct; but, as in the case of the peptic gland, so also here the cells are shorter and more opaque in the neck than in the body. In this latter the cells are fine, more or less transparent columnar cells: in no part are there parietal cells. Their substance is a beautiful reticulum, which during rest and exhaustion is closer and more elongated than during secretion ; in the latter state there is an appreciable amount of interstitial substance con- tained in its meshes. Hence the epithelial cells are shorter, more ‘granular’ and opaque during rest than during secretion; in the former state the nucleus is spherical, during secretion it is compressed and close to the membrana propria (Ebstein, Klein). Ebstein regards the pyloric glands as simple peptic glands, but this is denied by several observers (v. Wittich and others) ; at any rate, they are not mucous glands, as formerly believed. Towards the duodenum the pyloric glands become larger, owing to the greater length of their tubes ; these are at the same time more branched. They pass without interrup- tion into the Brunner’s glands, with which they are identical in structure. We shall return to these when describing the duodenum. The membrana propria of the glands of the stomach is of the same structure as that of other glands mentioned on former pages : viz. a network of flattened branched cells, from which come off filamentous and membranous processes that penetrate between the epithelial cells lining the gland tubes (Watney). The branched cells of the membrana propria of the peptic glands have been first seen by Henle; Heidenhain described them more accurately. Outside the caecal extremity of the gland tubes is a thin layer of connective tissue, and then follows a muscular coat, the muscularis mucosae, which in some places consists of a single longitudinal layer, but in many places shows an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells ; in some places there is an additional inner longitudinal or oblique layer. The thickness of the muscularis mucosae varies in differ- ent places; as a rule it is thickest at the summits of the folds of the mucous membrane. Numerous bundles branch off from the muscularis mucosae and penetrate into the mucosa, where they ascend between the gland tubes; near the surface some of them assume a horizontal course, others terminate at the basement membrane (Watney). Outside the muscularis mucosae is the submucous tissue, consisting of trabeculae of fibrous-connective tissue arranged as a loose meshwork. This tissue is here, as in