73 CHAPTER X. UNSTRIPED MUSCLE. The tissue of unstriped muscle has a wide distribution in man and the other vertebrates. Large masses of it are present, in the shape of bundles or continuous coats, in the oesophagus, stomach, small and large intestine, trachea, bronchi and infundibula of lung; pelvis of kidney, urethers, bladder and urethra, prostate, epididymis, vas deferens, vesiculse seminales and ejaculatorii, and corpora cavernosa; ovary, Fallopian tube and ligamenta lata, uterus and vagina ; in the arteries and many veins, in the semi-lunar valves of the heart and some lymphatic trunks; the gall-bladder, ductus hepaticus, cysticus and choledochus ; the duct of the parotid, submaxillary, and pancreas glands ; the capsule and trabeculae of the spleen, and, in some mammals, also those of lymphatic glands ; occasionally in the serous membranes, in the muscles of the hairs (arrector pili) in sweat glands and ceruminous glands ; the sphincter and dilatator pupillae, the tensor chorioides, and the muscle of Muller in the orbital fissure are unstriped muscle tissue. The elements of this tissue are elongated, spindle-shaped, or bandlike cells of various lengths, each with an oblong nucleus. They are aggregated into smaller or larger bundles, and these again into groups or continuous membranes. The muscle cells within a bundle are imbricated and held together by a semi- fluid, transparent, albuminous, interstitial or cement substance, identical with the substance uniting epithelial and endothelial cells, mentioned in a former chapter. But there are flattened connective-tissue cells to be met with in this cement-substance, and also now and then a few connective-tissue fibres. Both these tissues, viz. connective- tissue cells and fibres, represent the endomysium. The tissue surrounding or separating the individual bundles is fibrous-connective tissue of the ordinary description, and represents the perimysium. The endomysium is continuous with the perimysium. The bundles of unstriped muscle fibres often are connected with one another in the form of a plexus, larger bundles dividing into smaller ones, and then again reuniting. The unstriped muscle cells in a bundle are pressed against one another, appearing therefore more or less polyhedral in transverse section. The individual cells consist in the fresh state of a transparent more or less distinctly longitudinally striated substance (Arnold, Klein, Flemming, Ranvier), and their transverse section presents accordingly a finely and uniformly dotted appearance. N