THE OLFACTORY MUCOSA. 4i5 Occasionally a non-olfactory fold or projection of the mucous membrane on the septum or in the lateral parts of the nasal cavity is met with which contains large glands in lobules and is of course covered with ciliated epithelium. On such projections, generally on its very margin, may occur over a small extent an * olfactory ’ mucosa ; in this latter place we find an olfactory epithelium, a layer of mucosa containing single gland tubes, of the same kind as those of other olfactory regions, and a few branches of the olfactory nerve, siiper-imposcd over lobules of glands, which clearly belon g to the non-olfactory surrounding part since their ducts open in this latter. The Blood-vessels form rich networks of capillaries in the superficial parts of the mucous membrane. The glands possess of course their own capillaries. The Lymphatics of the olfactory mucous membrane have been injected by Schwalbe and afterwards by Michel from the subdural space of the brain. Key and Retzius demonstrated a rich network of finer and larger lymphatics, the latter with valves. They take up the lymph lacunar system of the tissue of the mucous membrane; the alveoli and ducts of the glands are surrounded by networks of the lymph-lacunas. In the olfactory parts the network of lymph-lacunm extends up to the epithelium, and in some places Key and Retzius saw tubular lymphatics ascend through the epithelium to the free surface in company with the gland ducts. The olfactory nerve branches are ensheathecl in lymph-channels which are in con- nection with the lymphatics of the mucous membrane. Key and Retzius made very successful injections of these lymphatics, as illustrated on Plates XXXVII. XXXVIII. and XXXIX. Part I. of their magnificent work : ‘ Studies of the Nervous System,’ &c. ; these injections were carried out in the rabbit and dog from the subdural space of the brain and the subarachnoidal space of the spinal cord. The organ of Jacobson is met with in all mammals and, as has been proved by Dursy and Kolliker, also in the human embryo. In mammals it is a bilateral oblong- saccule or canal, compressed from side to side and situated in the anterior lower part of the septum narium, each being contained within a cavity of the osseous substance, but separated from this latter by a more or less perfect cartilaginous capsule. This cartilage is hyaline cartilage and is independent of the cartilage of the nasal septum above it. Like Loewe, I also find the median wall entirely different in structure from the lateral, and there exists a very sharp boundary between the two. The former is lined on its free surface, that is, the one facing the inner cavity, with an epithelium which in many respects is similar to the olfactory epithelium, while the latter possesses ordinary ciliated columna epithelium. 302