STRUCTURE OF BRONCHI. 002 241 3. The Bronchi. In the bronchi we meet with precisely the same structure as in the trachea. The epithelium, as a whole, becomes thinner towards the smaller branches, in which it is composed only of one layer of ciliated columnar cells. In the smallest bronchi these cells become very short columnar, but retain their cilia to the end—that is, to near the alveolar ducts. As in the trachea, so also in the bronchi the epithelial cells are capable of being- converted into goblet cells. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of two bronchi belonging to the same order, but one of which is distended, the other contracted ad maximum, presents itself in a totally different aspect (Klein); while in a large bronchus which is contracted the epithelium appears stratified, it is but a single layer of cells in a similar bronchus that is much distended. And similarly in the smallest bronchi the epithelium may appear composed of shorter or longer columnar cells, according to whether the bronchus is distended or contracted ad maximum. U nderneath the epithelium is a basement membrane, which is a single layer of large flattened nucleated endothelial cells (Debove). The mucosa appears as smaller or larger folds, and contains a delicate meshwork of minute connective-tissue bundles, between which are seen the connective-tissue cor- puscles ; numerous longitudinal elastic fibres, connected into a network, belong to this layer. In the bronchi of some animals (pig) these elastic fibres attain a very great develop- ment, forming a thick stratum of their own. Outside this is a more or less continuous circular layer of unstriped muscle cells. This layer is very conspicuous, and its thickness varies, of course, whether a bronchus is in a distended or contracted state. The depth (or height) of the folds of the mucosa entirely depends on the state of contraction of the muscle coat. The next layer is the submucous tissue containing small mucous glands. In the larger bronchi the connective-tissue trabeculae of this layer pass directly into the peri- chondrium of the cartilage plates, and into the fibrous coat outside these, viz. the bronchial adventitia. The mucous glands generally extend between the cartilage plates into the adventitia. Groups of fat cells occur in the submucous tissue as well as in the adventitia. Towards the smaller bronchi the glands of the submucous tissue decrease, both in size and number, just like the cartilage plates, and in the smallest bronchi the fibrous tissue outside the muscle coat contains neither glands nor cartilage. In the smaller bronchi the adventitia is very rich in elastic fibrils connected into a network. The adventitia of the larger bronchi is connected with the tissue between the lobules of the lung—that is, the interlobular septa—while the adventitia of the smaller bronchi passes insensibly into the wall of the adjacent alveoli.