322 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. colour according to the colour of the hair; but this pigment is present only in the part around the papilla, that is in the part which is continuous with the substance of the hair. When not very abundant, these pigment granules are contained in the branched cells of the interstitial substance only, as stated above, and by them the epithelial cells of the bulb are finely mapped out. When very abundant, however, they also appear contained in the substance of the epithelial cells themselves. Passing from the bulb on to the hair root, the cells, as we have seen, become elong- ated, and the configuration of their interstitial substance changes accordingly, and con- sequently the arrangement of the pigment becomes of an elongated nature, always remaining between the cells of the hair substance, as mentioned on a former page. The hair-follicles and hairs of animals are in most respects identical in structure with those of man, the pigment in the interstitial substance of the cells constituting the hair substance and its bulb being in coloured hairs very great. The tactile hairs in the snout, eyelids, face, fingers, &c-., of many mammals are distinguished from the ordi- nary hairs by the presence of an erectile tissue, viz. blood-sinuses surrounded by unstriped muscle tissue, chiefly around the neck of the hair-follicle. The Sebaceous Gland. Each hair-follicle is connected with one or two sebaceous glands opening into the neck of the former. The epithelium of the outer root-sheath, and the homogeneous basement membrane outside it, are connected with the epithelium and membrana propria respectively of the duct, passing sideways in an oblique direction into the corium, but always remaining more or less close to the hair-follicle. In the large sebaceous glands the duct after a short distance branches into three or more short smaller ducts, each of which passes into a single or double, longer or shorter flask-shaped or saccular, pear-shaped or tubular alveolus, with a caecal extremity. The alveoli, as a rule, never reach so deep as the coiled tube of sweat-glands, being situated in the middle portion of the corium. The ducts are lined with stratified epithelium similar to the outer root-sheath; but it, viz. the epithelium, is reduced to one or two layers of small cells, while the lumen is filled with remnants of the altered gland cells constituting the elements of the sebum. In the alveoli we find a marginal layer of small polyhedral granular-looking epithelial cells, each with a spherical nucleus; these cells are continuous with the marginal layer of cells of the duct, while the rest of each alveolus is occupied by polyhedral cells, whose intracellular network is filled with fat globules; when these are dissolved