33i THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SKIN, other terminate freely either with a pointed extremity, running out into a longer or shorter fine canal, or with a ceecal extremity, as is the case in some papillae. These vessels have no valves and correspond to true lymph capillaries. Both the arterial and venous branches passing through the corium are either accompanied on one or both sides by a lymphatic vessel, or they are crossed obliquely by such a vessel, and then this latter appears to pass through the sheath of the blood- vessel. The lamellated connective-tissue septa between the lobules of fat-cells contains a plexus of lymphatics especially dense in the skin of man; the vessels are finer and more numerous than immediately above or below. What is the relation of the lymphatics to the interfascicular spaces, and to the stratum Malpighii of the epidermis ? As has been described minutely in Chapter XXII., of the connective tissues in general, the lymphatic capillaries stand in an open communication, by true stomata, with the interfascicular spaces, which are the lymph rootlets. This direct mode of connection is especially marked in those lymph vessels which terminate or run out freely in the tissue. Another or indirect mode is this : the inter- stitial semifluid cement-substance of the endothelial wall of the lymphatic vessel is con- tinuous with the same substance of the interfascicular spaces, and formed as well as fluid matter may find its way from the latter into the cavity of the former. In the same way the lymphatic rootlets or interfascicular spaces of the papillae and the superficial parts of the corium, are connected intimately on the one hand with the interstitial substance of the stratum Malpighii, and on the other with the lymphatic vessels. This relation has been minutely considered in Chapter XXII. p. 175, and has been also referred to in this chapter, in the description of the relation of the stratum Malpighii to the papillary layer of the corium. b) The adipose tissue is supplied with a great many lymphatics ; these are : first the numerous lymphatic vessels which form plexuses in the interlobular connective-tissue septa, and secondly the intralobular lymphatics. The interlobular lymphatics are very much more numerous in the human skin than in that of animals. They take up every- where fine clefts and sinuses which are traceable between each two fat-cells. These represent the intralobular or intercellular lymphatics. Each fat-cell appears over a greater or smaller part of its circumference surrounded by a lymph-sinus. c) Between the coils of the sweat gland-tubes are lymph-clefts. They are bor- dered by the coiled tube on the one hand, and the intertubular connective tissue on the other, or they are contained within the latter. They are taken up by the lymphatic vessels of the surrounding connective tissue. Also along the duct lymph-clefts may be