189 EPITHELIUM OF DUCTS OF SALIVARY GLANDS. of columnar epithelial cells, the substance of which appears to consist of closely placed relatively thick longitudinal rods (Kolliker). When examined more carefully, it can be ascertained, however, that these rods anastomose with one another by few short lateral branchlets, so as to form a network (Klein). Each cell has an oval or spherical nucleus situated about the middle or a little beside the latter. The striation is generally more distinct in the inner part of the cell substance than in the outer, owing to the above network being closer and more uniform in the latter than in the former. The epithelium is situated on a thin membrane containing oval flattened nuclei at more or less regular intervals, probably an endothelial membrane. The outline of the intralobular ducts is never smooth, but irregular and wavy, owing to the irregularity in size (height) of the epithelium at different places. The large intralobular ducts branch into the smaller ones, and these are ultimately connected with, and pass into, the proper gland substance or alveoli. But before doing so, they undergo a change in their structure, and assume special characters by which they are easily distinguished, the terminal or intermediary part (v. Ebner). This latter varies in length in different salivary glands, being longer in the human submaxillary gland than in that of dog. It is much narrower than the intralobular duct, its lumen is smaller, and its epithelium either a single layer of polyhedral transparent cells, each with a spherical nucleus, as in dog’s submaxillary gland, or it is a layer of flattened cells, each with a flattened nucleus, as in the submaxillary gland of man. The intermediary part is often branched before it passes into the alveoli (Grot). The proper gland substance is in all salivary glands made up of branched tubes of varying lengths, much convoluted, and of a wavy appearance (Grot). This type of gland is called compound tubular. The tubes are closely placed against one another, and extending with their branches and convolutions in all different directions, it is natural that, in any section through the gland, we should find them cut under very different angles : transversely, obliquely, and longitudinally. Between the individual tubes or alveoli are capillary blood-vessels, lymphatic spaces, and the connective tissue mentioned above. This latter varies, however, in different glands, and determines the closeness of the position of the alveoli ; thus in the submaxillary gland of man there is considerably more interalveolar connective tissue than in the dog, and therefore the alveoli in the former instance are less closely placed than in the latter. The inembrana propria of the alveoli appears as a delicate homogeneous membrane containing from place to place flattened nuclei, being in reality made up of richly branched flattened cells connected with each other (Henle, Heidenhain, Boll and others). Their processes are either fine and threadlike or broad and membranous, and the G G