ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 332 uniform tint, in it a few elastic fibrils ; the corneal corpuscles are seen in profile, and there- fore appear as thin elongated corpuscles. A nerve branch ascends obliquely from the depth and near Bowman’s membrane gives off fine fibrils. In this latter are seen three black dots; they are transverse sections through fine nerve fibrils running in that membrane in a horizontal direction. A thin ramus perforans passes right through Bowman’s membrane on the left of the figure, and gives off fine fibrils running closely underneath the epithelium and forming part of the subepithelial network. A few intraepithelial nerve fibrils ascend between the columnar cells of the deepest layer. Fig. II. From a vertical section through the same cornea, but showing the posterior layers. 1. The endothelium of Descemet’s membrane. 2. Descemet’s membrane. 3. The substantia propria ; the corneal corpuscles in their lymph canalicular system are well shown. Some of the canaliculi join the lacunae of different strata. Fig. III. From a vertical section through the anterior part of the cornea of the dog. Magnifying power about 300. 1. The stratified epithelium. 2. A delicate Bowman’s membrane. 3. The substantia propria. Between longitudinally cut bundles of the connective- tissue matrix there are shown numerous others cut transversely. The lacunae with the corneal corpuscles are shown in profile. Fig. IV. From a horizontal section through the cornea of the rabbit, stained with chloride of gold, showing the superficial layer of the epithelial cells, indicated by their oval nuclei only, and underneath it the fine intraepithelial nerve fibrils. Magnifying power about 400. Fig. V. A few pigmented epithelial cells of the uvea of a processus ciliaris of a newborn child, seen from the surface. The clear interstitial cement-substance is well marked. Magnifying power about 300. Fig. VI. From a horizontal section through the substantia propria of the frog’s cornea, stained with chloride of gold. Magnifying power about 450. 1. Fine nerve fibrils terminating in a minute network, not in, but on a corneal corpuscle.