403 THE ARCH OF CORTI. is generally the most elevated point, acting at the same time as a firm support of the other elements which appear grouped around it. Both pillars are elongated, more or less S-shaped rodlike structures, on which we distinguish a thickened upper extremity or the head, a thickened lower extremity or the foot, and an elongated rod-shaped middle part or the body. The pillars of the two rows touch with their head, while their foot, resting on the membrana basilaris, forms a sharp angle with this latter. Thus a triangular space, the tunnel of the arch, is formed between the two rows of pillars and the corresponding portion of the membrana basilaris. The head of the inner pillar is more or less distinctly triangular in the profile view, and possesses an inner short and an outer much longer platelike prolongation. This latter is the head-plate and is so curved, that with its concave (outer) surface it firmly grasps the head of the outer pillar; it terminates in the lamina reticularis (see below). The head of the outer pillar is of considerable size; it possesses a convex surface which, as just mentioned, closely fits into the concavity of the long platelike process of the head of the inner pillar. Outwards, that is, towards the outer hair cells, the head of the outer pillar sends off a long platelike process, the head-plate, which, as will be presently mentioned, forms the first phalanx of the membrana reticularis. In most cochleae the top of the head of the outer pillar is the highest point of the organ of Corti, that is farthest away from the membrana basilaris; but in the guinea-pig this is not so, since the head-plate of the outer pillar and the greater part of the mem- brana reticularis covering the outer hair cells, ascend in an oblique direction (v. Wini- warter.) From this it follows that the outer hair cells of the most external row are longer than those next the outer pillar. The outer pillar is much thicker than the inner, and there exists this definite relation between the two, that the head of the outer pillar fits exactly into that of two inner ones, or rather into the head plates of two inner pillars ; the convex surface of the head of each outer pillar appears, therefore, double-facetted. The body of the outer pillar is always longer than that of the inner, and this gives, of course, to the whole outer pillar a greater length. In the guinea-pig this relation is almost exaggerated, and in addition the body of the inner pillar is distinctly bent inwards towards the tunnel in about its middle part. The body of the outer pillar shows a relative increase in length from the lower to the upper turns of the cochlea (Pritchard). The body of both the inner and outer pillar is comparatively slender and curved. The foot is pyramidal and larger in the outer, columnar and smaller in the inner pillar. The substance of both the pillars is, in the fresh state, homogeneous and bright.