CHAPTER XV. THE BRAIN. The Membranes of the Brain. The description given of the minute structure of the membranes of the spinal cord applies also to those of the brain, with the following additions :— a) The blood-vessels of the dura mater cerebralis present a very peculiar arrange- ment and appearance (Boehm, Axel Key and Retzius, Paschkewicz, Michel) ; according to Axel Key and Retzius there is one system on the outer and another system on the inner surface. The former contains more or less wavy arteries accompanied on each side by a vein. The arteries branch dichotomously and anastomose with one another ; the same is the case with the veins. The inner system is a network of capillary vessels with elongated meshes. At the nodes of this network are peculiar ampullar, spindle- shaped or saccular dilatations. Now this inner system is connected with the outer one in two ways : first, by minute arterial branches (capillary arteries) passing in an oblique direction from the latter to the former, and, secondly, by the above ampullae being con- nected by capillary veins with the veins of the outer system. So that these ampullae represent the roots of the veins. b) The arachnoidal villi (Luschka), or glandulae Pacchioni, are club-shaped or pear- shaped prolongations of the subarachnoidal network of trabeculae of connective tissue (ensheathed in endothelium) ; they are covered by a thin continuation of the arachnoidea itself, including the covering endothelium (Axel Key and Retzius). These villi differ very much in size, some being single, others compound. They do not project into the subdural space, but are pushed with their stalks through minute holes of the inner laminae of the dura mater, and thus project into the venous sinuses of the latter; but they are not quite free in the sinus, being covered with a delicate membrane of connec- tive tissue and endothelium derived from the dura mater (Axel Key and Retzius). By injecting the subarachnoidal spaces of the brain Axel Key and Retzius found that the injection matter passes freely from the spongy subarachnoidal tissue through the stalks into the arachnoidal villi; these being of the same spongy structure as the subarachnoidal tissue become, through the filling of their spaces, greatly enlarged ; then the. injection matter fills the space between each villus and its dural covering, and finally enters the