256 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. embedded flattened nucleated branched connective-tissue cells (Axel Key). The lobules of the glomerulus are covered with a membrane composed of a single layer of nucleated epithelial cells, which membrane dips in even between the capillaries of a lobule (Heidenhain). The epithelial covering of the glomerulus is continuous with the epithelial lining of Bowman’s capsule ; this condition is due to the fact that, in the development of the Malpighian corpuscle, the extremity of the foetal urinary tubule becomes invaginated by the progressive growth of the embryonal glomerulus. Bowman’s capsule appears thus inflected over the latter. The younger the Malpighian corpuscle the more distinct is the epithelium covering the glomerulus; in the human foetus it is made up of polyhedral or even short columnar cells, at a time when the epithelium lining Bowman’s capsule is already much flattened, as is well shown in fig. 2 of Plate XXXVIIa. The glomerulus of each Malpighian corpuscle is connected with an afferent and efferent vessel ; both these lie closely side by side, where they join the glomerulus, and form, as it were, the peduncle of this latter. The Malpighian corpuscles vary in size ; they are generally larger in the parts of the cortex nearest the boundary layer, and decrease in size towards the surface of the cortex (Drasch). 2. Opposite this peduncle, Bowman’s capsule passes into the urinary tubule through a short narrow neck. The flattened epithelium lining the former is not always easily fol- lowed into the latter, and consequently the cavity of the neck, which of course is a con- tinuation of the space of the Malpighian corpuscle, appears as if without any epithelial lining, the membrana propria alone forming the wall of this part. 3. Immediately after the neck the urinary tubule becomes enlarged and much con- voluted, and this has been above referred to as the proximal convoluted tubule. Its limiting membrana propria is a direct continuation of the hyaline capsule of Bowman, and it is lined with a single layer of epithelial cells. The tube possesses a distinct cavity of about one third or more of the whole diameter of the tube. The membrana propria remains the same through all sections of the urinary tubule in the cortex and medulla. There are in some places oblong flattened nuclei to be recognised in this membrane, as if it were composed of endothelial plates; minute septules containing here and there an oblong or angular nucleus pass from the mem- brana propria in amongst the epithelial cells lining it, similar to what is the case in gland tubes of other organs, as described in previous chapters. Now, with the exception of the descending limb of Henle’s loop (5), the loop itself (6) and all parts of the collecting tube (12, 13, 14, 15 and 16), the epithelial cells lining the membrana propria of the other sections are made up of a substance containing