57 ARRANGEMENT OF BONE LAMELL/E. depends of course on the closeness of the position of the Haversian systems, being very small when these latter are in almost immediate contact, and larger when they are further apart. c) Those groups among the interstitial lamellae which possess a direction parallel to the surface of the bone are designated under the special name of the circumferential lamellae. They are best seen near the external free surface of adult long bones (Tomes and de Morgan). Not only in the compact substance of long bones, but also in that of short and flat bones, we find the above arrangement of the bone lamellae, provided the thickness of the bone is sufficiently great to permit of it; but when, as in some instances of short and flat bones, the compact substance forms only a thin cortex, the bone lamellae are reduced to groups that run parallel to the surface. B. In spongy bone the lamellae are arranged as larger or smaller groups, branching and anastomosing so as to form a network of broader or smaller plates and trabeculae; the meshes of this network, viz. the marrow cavities, intercommunicate with each other, and are filled with a very vascular connective tissue of a peculiar structure, to be de- scribed below as red marrow. The bone corpuscles between the lamellae of the above plates and trabeculae anastomose by means of their canaliculi with the marrow cavities. Spongy bone-substance varies in different parts, according to the manner of ar- rangement of its plates and trabeculae ; thus, in the extremities of the shaft of long bones the meshes are pre-eminently oblong in a longitudinal direction, and hence the spongy substance when viewed with the unaided eye or a lens appears longitudinally striated. The lamellae of compact substance are perforated by more or less perpendicular fibres, the perforating fibres of Sharpey. They are fibrous bundles, and run either singly or in groups, and, just like the lamellae, are impregnated with lime salts. As will be described below, they are present in all bone developed in connection with the perios- teum, and they themselves owe their origin to this latter, hence the perforating fibres in the adult are still connected with the periosteum (Kolliker). Some of the per- forating fibres are very fine, and of the nature of elastic tissue (H. Muller, Schafer). Besides the branched cells situated in the lacunae and canaliculi of the ground- substance, and the vessels mentioned in the Haversian canals, there are two other soft tissues to be considered in connection with bone, viz. the periosteum and the marrow. The periosteum is the layer of tissue covering the free surface of a long, short, or flat bone. It consists in all instances of (a) an external dense, and (<£) an internal loose layer. a) The external layer is a dense fibrous tissue, hence it is called the fibrous layer. In some bones it is thin, and composed of a single layer of bundles of