ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 126 network (superficial intraepithelial network, Klein), the fibrils of which are separated from the free surface only by the superficial layer of epithelial cells. The nerve fibrils, instead of being connected into a terminal network, are said to end in free knoblike extremities on the surface of the epithelium (Cohnheim, Lavdowsky, Krause), or in some other special way (Thanhoffer, Inzani) ; according to Hoyer and Izquierdo the terminal fibrils branch near, but not at the free surface of the epithelium, and end here freely. In all instances the intraepithelial nerve fibrils run in the interstitial substance between the epithelial cells, and do not enter into any relation with the epithelial cells themselves or their nuclei. 2) In the skin. Besides the special terminal organs to be described below, viz. the Pacinian corpuscles, genital corpuscles, Merkel’s cells, tactile corpuscles of Meissner, &c., there is the general termination of the sensory nerves, which is placed in the epidermis itself. From the subepithelial plexus, mentioned above, fine fibrils, isolated or small groups of elementary fibrils, come off, which lie close to the under-surface of the rete Malpighii, and after having formed a network with large meshes, the subepithelial network, enter the rete Malpighii (Langerhans), where they ascend towards the stratum corneum; on their way, viz. in the rete Malpighii, they give off short branches, which anastomose into a network (Podkopaew, Jantschitz). This is probably a terminal network. As in the cornea, so also in the skin the intraepithelial nerve fibrils lie in the interstitial substance between the epithelial cells. In the nose of the mole there are bundles of elementary fibrils ascending, in special places, into the rete Malpighii (Eimer), they run towards the surface, and each fibril terminates here, according to Mojsisovics, in a small knoblike swelling. A similar termination has been observed by Mojsisovics in the nose of pig. In the skin of frog Ditlevsen described special cells as the end organs of the intra- epithelial nerve fibrils. In the skin of tadpole the non-medullated nerve fibres dissolve themselves into a very dense network of minute fibrils (Klein, Lavdowsky, Leboucq); this network lies close underneath the epithelium of the surface, its meshes are much smaller than the individual epithelial cells. Included in the network are minute flat branched nucleated cells (Klein, Lavdowsky, Leboucq). The relation of fine nerves to the hairs in general, and especially to the tactile hairs, will be considered in the chapter on the skin. Similar to the above is the termination of nerve fibrils in the mucous membranes