148 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. perimysium between the muscle bundles of the heart’s substance. The thickness of the endocardium varies in different localities; at the ostium of the auricles and ventricles and the summit of the papillary muscles it is greatly increased by a firm connective tissue, identical with tendinous tissue and situated underneath the proper endocardial membrane. The same firm tendinous tissue occupies the middle layer of the auriculo-ventricular valves which represent merely folds of the endocardial membrane. The semilunar valves are also folds of the endocardium, but contain chiefly elastic tissue. Striated muscle fibres penetrate a short distance into the auriculo-ventricular valves ; they are longitu- dinal and transverse bundles, and are continuations of the muscles of the auricle (Joseph, Gussenbauer). The endocardium of the septum ventriculorum of man contains small bundles of unstriped muscle fibres (Schweigger-Seidel). In the subendocardial tissue are tracts of striped muscle fibres which differ in no way from those of the heart’s substance ; they belong to the endocardium, since they are separated from the proper substance of the heart by special layers of connective tissue (Schweigger-Seidel). Amongst the muscle fibres of the endocardium are Purkinje’s fibres specially to be mentioned. They form a network. They do not occur in man, rabbit, mouse, cat, and frog (Aeby, Obermeyer), but are met with in many other mammals and birds (Purkinje, Kolliker, Aeby, Lehnert, Obermeyer and others). Each of them represents a thin muscle fibre, the central part of which is homogeneous protoplasm, containing nuclei at regular intervals, while its periphery is striated muscle substance (Schweigger-Seidel, Frisch). The networks of blood capillaries are of course richest in the muscle substance, but they are also numerous in the pericardial and endocardial membrane, including the valves. The lymphatic vessels form a pericardial and an endocardial network; into this latter pass the lymphatics of the mitral as well as of the semilunar valves (Eberth, Belajeff). The individual vessels are comparable to lymphatic capillaries (see a future chapter). The muscle substance proper of the heart possesses, besides the above-named lymph spaces of Schweigger-Seidel, also other tubular lymphatics (Lusckka, Eberth, Belajeff). The nerve branches of the plexus cardiacus, those that run as subpericardial nerves towards the apex of the heart, as well as those situated in the septum ventriculorum, form plexuses ; each branch represents a small bundle of ordinary non-medullated nerve fibres, held together by a perineural sheath : amongst them may be met with here and there a medullated nerve fibre. In connection with the nerve plexus of certain places, to be mentioned presently, are