27 MIGRATORY CONNECTIVE-TISSUE CELLS. the capillary vessels by means of the colourless blood-corpuscles that had swallowed them within the vessels. Having left the blood-vessel, these cells migrate about in the surrounding connective tissue, and, as has been mentioned in Chapter I., may during this time gradually eject and leave behind their load of pigment granules. These may be swallowed again by migratory connective-tissue cells, which have had no immediate connection whatever with the capillary vessels. If, then, we inject carmine into the circulating blood of a frog, and we produce an inflammation in some connective tissue—e.g. tongue, or cornea, or web of foot, and we find in the inflamed part many migratory cells—pus cells—containing carmine granules, we are not justified in con- cluding that these cells are all colourless blood-corpuscles that have emigrated from the vessels, for the pigment granules contained in them are no index of their origin. The pigment granules may have been imported into the inflamed part by migratory con- nective-tissue cells that found them in the connective-tissue whither they were carried by other agencies (Strieker). In addition to the migratory cells, as described above, there exist other corpuscles which show only very slight amoeboid movement, are larger than the ordinary migratory cells, contain a single relatively large nucleus, are unbranched, and, in many instances, contain real granules which stain very markedly deep blue in haematoxylin, and become hereby very conspicuous. They are to be found in the vicinity of small blood-vessels, in the serous membranes, submucous tissue, in the connective-tissue sheath of nerve trunks, in the trabeculae of lymphatic glands, in the intermuscular tissue of tongue, and in the intermuscular connective tissue in general. These corpuscles correspond to the plasma-cells of Waldeyer, and have been noticed by many previous observers. B. The fixed or connective-tissue corpuscles proper are transparent, more or less elastic, and flattened nucleated cells, which bear a definite relation to the connective- tissue ground-substance in which they are situated. The connective-tissue ground-substance is in most instances composed of larger or smaller cylindrical or bandlike bundles of minute fibrils, and it is the peculiar arrange- ment of these bundles which determines the shape and nature of the connective-tissue corpuscles. In tendon and in kindred connective tissue (fascia, aponeurosis) the bundles are arranged parallel with each other, and they form groups. Between each two groups we find a more or less straight channel—interfascicular lymph-channel; in these channels lie the connective-tissue cells, forming for each such channel a single continuous row of flattened cell-plates—the so-called tendon cells (Ranvier). This row of cell-plates covers only a section of the circumference of the channel (the other section being left uncovered), and in doing so the cell-plates have to adapt themselves to the more or less F