99 CHAPTER XIV. THE OPTIC NERVE. We shall consider in this chapter the optic nerve and its sheaths, up to near its passage through the cribrous membrane of the eyeball : this latter will be described in connection with the retina in a future chapter. 1) The sheaths of the optic nerve. Through the investigations of Schwalbe, Axel Key and Retzius, H. Schmidt, Michel, Wolfring and Waldeyer, it is ascertained that the opticus possesses three dis- tinct sheaths : (a) An external sheath, being a prolongation of the dura mater (dural sheath, Axel Key and Retzius); it consists of fibrous-connective tissue of the same dense arrangement as in the dura mater of the brain and spinal cord. (b) A middle sheath (arachnoidal sheath, Axel Key and Retzius), being a continuation of the arachnoidea; it shows the same structure as this, (c) An inner sheath of fibrous-connective tissue, being a continuation of the pia mater (pial sheath, Axel Key and Retzius). Between the dural and arachnoidal sheath is a continuous lymph space (subdural space of the optic nerve, Axel Key and Retzius ; subvaginal space, Schwalbe), in open communication with the subdural space of the brain. The surfaces of the dural and arachnoidal sheaths bordering on this space are covered with a single layer of endo- thelium. From the dural sheath pass a few connective-tissue trabeculae through the subdural space to the arachnoidal sheath. Between the arachnoidal and pial sheath is another lymph space, the subarach- noidal space of the optic nerve (Axel Key and Retzius). This space is permeated by a spongy mass composed of anastomosing trabeculae of connective tissue connected with the arachnoidal sheath, and identical in structure and arrangement with the subarachnoidal tissue mentioned in connection with the arachnoidea of the spinal cord. The surfaces of these trabeculae, just like the surface of the arachnoidal and pial sheath bordering on the subarachnoidal space, are covered with an endothelial membrane. The subdural and subarachnoidal spaces of the optic do not intercommunicate with one another (Axel Key and Retzius), and can be freely injected separately from the subdural or subarachnoidal space respectively of the brain (Schwalbe, Axel Key and Retzius). 2) The substance of the optic nerve proper. The optic nerve is composed of a great number of bundles of nerve fibres, sepa- R