390 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Between the trabeculae are left longer or shorter clefts, and larger or smaller sac- cular sinuses lined with endothelium, and forming an inter-communicating system of lymphatic vessels (Kessel). The membrana propria is wanting in the fissure or notch of Rivini. The mucosa is a very delicate connective-tissue membrane, covered with a single layer of squamous nucleated epithelial cells; groups of small cells are interspersed amongst the others. Small stomata exist between them (Kessel). The blood-vessels form capillary networks for the skin part as well as for the mucosa, and for the membrana propria; these networks anastomose with each other (Gerlach, Kessel, and others). The venous vessels empty themselves into the plexus of veins at the margin of the membrana tympani, and into the venous plexus surrounding the handle of the malleus. The lymphatics are also arranged in three layers (Kessel): a) A subepithelial network of fine vessels in the cutis. b) A similar one in the mucosa; and c) The inter-communicating system of wide lymphatics of the membrana propria. The latter anastomose with either of the other two. There is a lymph-canalicular system of lacunae and canaliculi in the connective tissue of the mucosa and membrana propria of the same nature as that described of the serous membranes (Kessel). Kessel found also that the movement of the membrana tympani assists in the absorption by the lymphatics from the tympanic cavity. The (non-medullated) nerves are arranged as plexuses of the cutis, of the membrana propria, and of the mucosa. The finest fibres form a subepithelial network both for the cutis and the mucosa, and from it pass fibrils amongst the epithelial cells (Kessel). The capillary blood-vessels are everywhere crossed and accompanied by fine nerves ; they are connected into a plexus and provided with pear-shaped or triangular nucleated cellular (ganglionic) enlargements (Kessel), which appear to enter into an intimate relation with the blood capillaries. Kessel could not ascertain their real termination in the capillaries. The Tuba Eustachii. The mucous membrane lining the tuba is a continuation of that of the upper or nasal part of the pharynx, and as such consists of the epithelium, the mucosa, and the submucous tissue. The epithelium consists of two or three layers of elongated spindle-shaped or