39i THE TUBA E US TA CHIT. conical cells, of which the top layer is conical and ciliated. Amongst these a good many mucous-secreting goblet cells are found. A very delicate basement membrane separates the epithelium from the mucosa. This is a delicate membrane composed of fine bundles of connective tissue with the connective-tissue cells and a few elastic fibrils. The mucosa of the membranous portion of the human tuba in the young condition contains groups of lymph-follicles (Gerlach), thus forming the tuba-tonsils of v. Teutleben. In the adult tuba the lymphatic tissue does not form well-defined follicles, but possesses more the character of diffuse adenoid tissue (v. Teutleben). The submucosa contains, in man and most mammals, besides a plexus of wide lymphatics, numerous compound tubular mucous-secreting glands, identical in structure with those of the pharynx and palate. These glands are absent in the semicylindrical space below the cartilage of the tuba, which by Rtidinger is called the safety tube. The mucous membrane is here very thin, and appears composed entirely of thin lamellae with endotheloid connective-tissue corpuscles. The striated fibres of the musculus dilatator tubae do not end in the submucous tissue (Rtidinger), but the tendon is fixed on the perichondrium of the hook-shaped end of the cartilage plate. But some fibres of the musculus levator veli palati terminate in the submucous tissue of the distal part of the tuba. A dense network of capillaries supplies the mucosa in the same manner as is the case in the mucosa of the pharynx. The cartilage of the tuba in man and most mammals is in its chief portion hyaline cartilage of the ordinary description, with the usual inner and outer perichondrium. In the adult state in most places groups of fine elastic fibres anastomosing into a net- work may be seen to pass from the inner perichondrium, i.e. that next the mucous mem- brane, in a vertical direction through the hyaline ground-substance towards the outer perichondrium. The number of the elastic fibrils is greater in the hook-shaped part than in the rest of the plate. Thus this cartilage approaches to a great extent to the reticular or elastic cartilage, and for this reason has been associated with the latter in Chapter VIII. p. 51. The Cavum Tympani. The cavum tympani and the cellulae mastoideae are lined with a delicate mucous membrane, whose deeper portion acts at the same time as the periosteum. The epithelium of the promontorium, the ossicula auditus, the roof of the cavum tympani, and the cellulae mastoideae, like that of the mucosa of the membrana tympani, is a single layer of more or less flattened polyhedral cells ; in all other parts 3 l 2