263 DISTRIBUTION OF LYMPHATICS. Numerous lymphatics arranged in a plexus are present in the capsule of the kidney ; they may be traced into lymph spaces between the convoluted tubules of the periphery of the cortex (Ludwig). In the connective tissue accompanying the large blood-vessels may be seen a plexus of lymphatic vessels ; from these the injection matter passes freely into the lymphatics of the capsule and into the lymph spaces between the urinary tubules both of the cortex and medulla. The Ureter and Bladder. The ureter is lined with stratified transitional epithelium ; this consists of: a super- ficial layer of polyhedral cells of various sizes, each with one, two or more spherical or oval nuclei; then follows a layer of club-shaped or pear-shaped columnar cells, each with a spherical or oval nucleus ; the broad part of the cells is directed towards the surface, the narrow stalk towards the depth ; between these are wedged in other cells, spindle- shaped or conical cells, each with a flattened oval nucleus (see Chapter II.). The number of layers of these deep cells varies in different parts and according to the state of contraction of the ureter; it is greater in the contracted, smaller in the less contracted state. In the former state the epithelium as a whole is much thicker at the base than at the top of the folds. The mucosa underneath the epithelium is a connective-tissue membrane, contain- ing a dense network of blood capillaries in almost immediate contact with the epithelium (Engelmann). The loose submucous connective tissue is continued, as septa, between the muscle bundles of the next or muscle coat. This consists of bundles of unstriped muscle cells, which bundles form networks. They are grouped into an inner and outer longitudinal and a middle circular coat. Fibrous-connective tissue forms an outer thin sheath or adventitia. There are rich plexuses of non-medullated nerves in the muscular coat, which in all respects resemble the ground plexuses already mentioned of the unstriped muscular tissue. In the nerve branches of the adventitia Obersteiner, and also Dogiel, observed ganglion cells. The bladder is almost identical in structure with the ureter, with the difference that the mucosa, submucosa, muscular coat and adventitia (peritoneum) are much thicker. In the muscular coat the bundles run in a more irregular direction : in the greater part of the bladder those next the submucosa are more or less circular ; outside these are bundles running more obliquely ; and the outermost layer is composed of longitudinal bundles (Jurie). Towards the fundus the longitudinal bundles greatly prevail.