i5 GOBLET CELLS OF INTESTINE. c) An epithelial cell of the surface of the same organ, showing the intracellular fibrils ; the network of these is not well seen. d) An isolated fragment of the intranuclear network of an epithelial cell of the same organ. Fig. IV. Columnar epithelial cells lining the surface of the mucous membrane of large intestine—simple columnar epithelium. Some of the epithelial cells are goblet cells pouring out their mucous contents. The same relation exists in the simple gland tubes situated in the mucous membrane of the small and large intestine—crypts of Lieberkiihn. The epithelium lining them is a simple columnar epithelium, and some of its cells are in a state of mucous secretion, i.e. are goblet cells. The number of these varies in different animals, in different states of digestion, and under different reagents. Thus they are most numerous in carnivorous animals during digestion, and in preparations treated with a chromium compound, e.g. chromic acid, bichromate of potash, Muller’s fluid, chromate of ammonia. This refers both to the epithelium covering the free surface of the mucous membrane of the intestine, and to those lining the crypts of Lieberkiihn. Figs. V. and VI. represent such crypts transversely cut; fig. VII. the same cut; longitudinally—at any rate, the greater part of the tube is cut longitudinally. Figs. V. and VII. are from the large intestine of pig ; fig. VI. from that of cat. In this last-named figure the capillary blood-vessels—cut in different directions—sur- rounding the crypts are injected with carmine gelatin. Fig. VIII. A vertical section through the epithelium covering the skin—epidermis. The epidermis is composed of the following different strata : a) Rete Malpighii or rete mucosum. b) Granular layer (Langerhans). c) Stratum lucidum (Schron). d) Stratum corneum. a) The rete Malpighii is a stratified pavement epithelium, composed of a deepest layer of more or less columnar cells each with an oval nucleus ; then follow several layers of polyhedral cells, each with a more or less spherical nucleus. Towards the surface the cells and their nuclei become more flattened. The lower surface of the rete Malpighii is not flat, but adapts itself to the minute papillae with which the surface of the true skin is provided. b) The granular layer, or more appropriately called the layer of the granular cells, is a stratum of flattened cells, spindle-shaped looking in vertical section, each with a more or less distinct clear nucleus, from the poles of which extend rod-like or disc-