293 TERMINATION OF VESSELS AND NERVES. the stroma ; but in this he is at variance with all recent investigators, as Pfluger, Waldeyer, Romiti, Balfour, and many others. The human parovarium, or organ of Rosenmuller, consists of a number of tubes situated in the ligametum latum, or extending into the hilum, as is the case in many mammals. The tubes are lined with columnar ciliated epithelial cells in the human sub- ject, in the dog they are lined with polyhedral cells (Waldeyer). The termination of the blood-vessels is in a dense capillary network around the larger follicles, but the albuginea as well as the stroma contain numerous capillary vessels. According to His, the lymphatics form, in the hilum, a network of tubes with valves, and are connected with lymph spaces that surround a greater or smaller part of the periphery of the large Grafian follicles. Waldeyer traced very fine medullated new fibres into the parenchyma, where they are lost amongst the larger Grafian follicles. According to Elischer, there is a network of non-medullated nerve fibres in the stroma of the ovary. The outer membrane of the large Grafian follicles possesses a distinct network of fine nerves with wide meshes ; in connection with this is a dense network of fine varicose nerve fibrils placed closely against the membrana granulosa. The Oviduct. The wall of the oviduct, including the fimbriae of the infundibulum, is composed of a mucous membrane, a muscular coat, and an outer adventitia, the peritoneum. The mucous membrane is a dense connective-tissue feltwork, containing a rich network of capillary blood-vessels ; on its inner free surface it is covered with columnar epithelium ; the cells are conical and ciliated, and between them are wedged in spindle- shaped or inverted conical cells (see Chapter II.). The mucous membrane is placed in longitudinal or complex folds, and at the base of the folds there are more layers of the epithelium than at their top. The mucous membrane does not contain any glands, neither in man nor in other mammals. In sections through the ampullar portion there appear depressions of the