2l8 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. endothelial cells and the lymph corpuscles as present in the mucosa. In some places there may be noticed a branched cell with a small nucleus included in the reticulum. The reticulum just mentioned represents at the same time the interstitial substance for all other elements in the villus ; viz. muscle cells, blood-vessels, and endothelium of the chyle vessels (Watney). It extends through the basement membrane (as the inter- stitial substance between its individual endothelial plates), and becomes identified with the interstitial cement substance between the epithelial cells covering the free surface of the villus. The paths for the chyle globules are, then, these : the interstitial substance of the epithelium, the interstitial substance of the basement membrane, further the reticulum forming the matrix of the villus, and finally the interstitial substance between the individual endothelial cells forming the wall of the chyle vessel. All these substances are soft, probably semifluid in the living state, and do not present any obstacle to the passage of formed matter. Since there exists the same anatomical continuity between the reticulum on the one hand and the interstitial substance of the endothelial cells forming the wall of a venous capillary on the other (Watney), there is no reason why the chyle globules or other matter, to be absorbed, should not pass with the same facility into the venous rootlets as into the lymphatics, since the current is in both centripetal. At the base of the villi open the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They are vertically arranged, and so closely placed side by side that only a small amount of tissue of the mucosa is found separating them. The length of the crypts varies in different parts of the intestine, the longest being found in the duodenum, owing to the greater thickness of the mucosa in this latter place. The crypts are about as long as the mucosa is thick, that is their blind extremity is almost in contact with the muscularis mucosae. Each crypt consists of a membrana propria, which, being a continuation of the base- ment membrane, is in reality an endothelial membrane (Watney). In connection with this latter, probably with its interstitial substance, are filamentous and membranous struc- tures penetrating towards the lumen of the crypt; they form a reticulum, including a nucleus in some places, and become identified with the interstitial substance separating the columnar epithelial cells lining the crypt. These epithelial cells are identical in structure and function with those covering the free surfaces of the villi, as has been described and figured in detail in Chapter II., except that they are somewhat shorter. 3) The muscularis mucosa is in many parts composed of an inner thin circular and an outer equally delicate longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells, but in some parts of the small intestine only a single longitudinal layer can be detected. 4) The submucosa is composed of trabeculae of fibrous-connective tissue, forming