245 CAPILLARY VESSELS OF ALVEOLI OF LUNG. branches of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein. Not each alveolus belonging to one and the same lobule has its own afferent arteriole, efferent vein, and capillary network, but a number of neighbouring alveoli possess a common vascular supply; the afferent arteriole and efferent vein or veins join the capillary network generally at opposite sides ; the network of capillaries, according to the peculiar globular nature of the alveoli, possesses, as it were, a honey-combed arrangement. The individual capillaries are either straight or more or less wavy; in the contracted lung they are of course very wavy, and quite close. The capillaries belonging to the septa between adjacent alveoli are in many instances more or less twisted, so as to approach now the cavity of the one, now again that of the other alveolus. The structure of the capillary blood-vessels in no way differs from that of other organs. The branched connective-tissue cells with their processes, mentioned above, are seen entwining and crossing the capillaries. Near a bronchus, and near the pleura, the alveolar capillaries anastomose with the capillaries of these organs : that is to say, with the capillaries of the bronchial artery. This is, however, denied by Cohnheim and Litten, but reaffirmed by Hoyer, Koster, and others. The large arterial and venous branches are situated in the interlobular connective tissue, which is continuous with their adventitia. Of interest is the arrangement of the muscle coat in the branches of the pulmonary artery, the (circular) muscle coat not being a continuous one, but interrupted from place to place (Klein), so that at these points the adventitia is in immediate contact with the intima. This state is very well shown in the lung of guinea pig. The lymphatics are very numerous (Wywodzoff, Sykorski, Klein, Kuttner, and others). They are arranged in the following three systems : (a) the subpleural lymphatics (superficial lymphatics, Wywodzoff) forming a dense plexus of lymphatic vessels, many of which contain valves. Their wall is, as usual, a single endothelial membrane. These subpleural vessels take their rootlets in the pleura itself, but especially in the lymph-canalicular system of the walls of the alveoli next the pleura. The meshes of this plexus correspond, on the whole, to the outlines of the alveoli, but there are many places where the vessels are much closer. In the lung of cattle the vessels of the subpleural plexus form more or less separate sections, according to the individual lobules, and the vessels of each such section have a stellate arrangement (Roy). In man and many mammals this plexus of subpleural vessels sends efferent trunks, through the ligamenta pulmonum, directly to the bronchial glands, but there are always numerous vessels that pass from the subpleural plexus through the interlobular connective tissue to join (6) the perivascular lymphatics. These have their rootlets