39 GELATINOUS TISSUE. a network of cells and their processes; in the later stages the foetal umbilical cord, although still of a gelatinous aspect, contains already numerous bundles of fibrous-con- nective tissue ; in other instances it is composed of non-nucleated fibrous bands (fishes, invertebrate animals, &c.), and in a third group it contains, besides cells, blood-vessels and bands of connective-tissue fibres, also fat-cells in different states of development. In this last instance the gelatinous tissue is the precursor of fat-tissue, as is the case with the tissue of the infraorbital fossa of young rabbits and the foetal subcutaneous tissue, and therefore, strictly speaking, should not be placed in the same group with the tissues mentioned before. 6) The network of homogeneous fibrils that forms the matrix of the central nervous system, including the optic nerve, the so-called neuroglia, will be considered minutely in a future chapter. c) The reticulum of homogeneous membranes and filaments forming the matrix of lymphatic tissue, the so-called adenoid reticulum, will be considered in detail in connection with the lymphatic glands. Both neuroglia and adenoid reticulum are in chemical respects neither identical with fibrous-connective tissue nor with elastic tissue. The reticulated tissue representing the supporting framework in different glandular organs, e.g. the reticular tissue between the urinary tubes of cortex of kidney, the reticular tissue supporting the liver cells, the reticulum of the pulp of spleen, &c., does not form a special group, being a honeycombed structure composed of nucleated, membranous, branched, and anastomosing connective-tissue cells. Fibrous-connective tissue is developed directly from embryonal connective-tissue corpuscles (Max Schultze, Briicke, Obersteiner, and others). These are at first spherical, then elongated, spindle-shaped cells with an oval nucleus. Each cell gives origin to a bundle of connective-tissue fibres (Breslauer, Boll), the nucleus gradually disappearing. But besides this mode of direct transformation of the original protoplasm of the cell into a bundle of connective-tissue fibres, there is another mode, consisting first in the production of a homogeneous (peripheral) substance by the embryonal cells them- selves and subsequent formation of bundles of fibrous tissue in it (Henle, Rollett, and others). The former, viz. direct mode of formation of bundles of connective-tissue fibres is to be observed in tendon, skin, intermuscular tissue, nerve trunks, loose cellular tissue, &c. In the umbilical cord and serous membranes there is, besides this, also the other, viz. indirect mode of formation.