ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 438 The nerves are very numerous, and composed of non-medullated fibres ; and in the medulla they form rich plexuses. In connection with these are isolated or groups of ganglion cells (Holm, Eberth). In the capsule of the suprarenal body of the dog I find real ganglia in connection with nerve bundles. It seems probable that the cells of the suprarenal capsule, at any rate those of the cell groups and streaks of the cortex, secrete something which, in the first place, is poured out into the intercellular canals and lacunae, and from here is brought into the lymph sinuses between the cell groups and the framework, and finally is carried into the efferent lymphatics. The muscle bundles of the septa and trabeculae are no doubt of great value in furthering this current. 4. The Glandula Coccygea and Glandula Carotica. The glandula coccygea, situated in front of the apex of the os coccygis, has been discovered by Luschka, who justly considered it as a gland. It is composed of a frame- work and parenchyma. The first consists of a capsule of fibrous-connective tissue, which sends into the interior trabeculae and septa, dividing and subdividing, so that the interior is cut up into an intercommunicating system of spherical oblong or cylindrical spaces. The septa and trabeculae contain in some places bands or bundles of unstriped muscle cells (Sertoli). The spaces of the framework are occupied by the parenchyma. This last consists of spherical or cylindrical masses of cells, the gland vesicles and tubes of Luschka, con- nected into a plexus. The cells are polyhedral epithelial cells, each with a spherical nucleus. According to Luschka the cells in the newborn child are ciliated. Each of the spherical or cylindrical masses contains more or less in its centre a capillary blood- vessel possessed of its own endothelial wall (Sertoli, Eberth), so that, unlike other gland alveoli and gland tubes, which are surrounded by a network of capillaries contained in the framework, in this instance the capillary blood-vessels are within the alveoli. The capillaries are much convoluted and wavy and are derived from the arteria sacralis media. Of the lymphatics nothing satisfactory is known. Numerous bundles of non-medullated sympathetic nerve fibres enter the gland and in the stroma form rich plexuses. Their termination is not known. Luschka described special budlike terminations of them similar to Pacinian corpuscles, but they, as well as the existence of the ganglion cells mentioned by Luschka, are questioned by Krause, Arnold, and Eberth. The glandula carotica of Luschka (ganglion intercaroticum auctorum) is of the same structure as the glandula coccygea.