186 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. papilla. These cells are called the enamel cells (inner epithelium of Kolliker). Each is a hexagonal long prism ; their nucleus is situated in the inner part of the cell substance : this is a dense reticulum. (6) Outside the layer of enamel cells are one, two, or three layers of small polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus : they form the stratum intermedium of Hannover. The outer membrane (outer epithelium of Kolliker) of the enamel cap is composed of several layers of epithelial cells ; but as development proceeds, the middle membrane increasing in thickness at the expense of the stratum intermedium of Hannover as well as the cells of the outer membrane, the layers of this latter become greatly reduced. Still later, the middle membrane having disappeared, the inner and outer membrane are again brought into contact. The enamel is formed by the enamel cells of the inner membrane, in the same manner as the dentin from the odontoblasts, viz. the distal extremity of the cells, that is, the one next the dentin elongates, and this increment is directly converted into enamel (Waldeyer, Tomes, Wenzel, and others). Kolliker, Kollman, and others, on the other hand, regard the enamel as an excretion of the enamel cells. The enamel cells being prismatic, the enamel matrix is accordingly also composed of prismatic elements, the above enamel prisms. The increment of the enamel cells and the con- version into enamel probably occur successively, and hence the aforesaid transverse markings of the enamel prisms receive their ready explanation. The enamel cells, like all epithelial cells, being separated from one another by a homogeneous interstitial substance, it is clear that the remains of this substance must occur also between the enamel prisms; in the enamel of a developing tooth this interstitial substance is larger in amount than in the fully formed organ. It is improbable that nucleated protoplasmic masses are con- tained in the interstitial substance of the enamel of a fully formed tooth, as is maintained quite recently by Bodecker. In the parts adjoining those that are breaking down through caries, the spaces, containing this interstitial substance, between the enamel prisms increase, and become filled with granular debris. A similar relation exists also in caries of dentin, for here also the dentinal canals are enlarged, and their contents, dentinal fibres and sheaths, thickened. When the most recently formed layer of enamel, the membrane of Huxley (mem- brana preformativa of Raschkow), is viewed from the surface, it appears of course to consist of closely placed hexagonal sections, these being the enamel prisms seen endwise ; each of these sections shows an opaque peripheral and a clear central part. This is due to the petrifaction of the prisms taking place first in the periphery, the centre remaining for some time transparent. In conformity with this the centre of the distal end of the enamel cells retains its soft structure much longer than the periphery, and when isolated, these cells present accordingly at that end a shorter or longer process (1 omes).