ADIPOSE TISSUE. 43' serous membranes of many mammals and man possess in the young and adult state a considerable amount of this species of lymphatic tissue. In some animals it is found to have a greater development than in others ; in some places it is arranged more in the shape of cords or patches, in others more as nodular masses along the larger branches of vessels which supply them with their vascular system. The small, i.e. the youngest cord, patch, or nodule, does not possess any vascular system, but this soon appears as that organ enlarges : first it is represented by a simple capillary loop derived either from a neighbouring patch or nodule, or directly from a larger vascular branch ; then numbers of new capillaries are formed either directly in connection with the existing capillary vessel, or independently of this, from connective-tissue cells of the patch or nodule in a manner which will be described minutely in the chapter on Blood- vessels ; one branch of the original capillary loop is changed into an artery, the other into a vein, and we have then a patch or nodule of lymphatic tissue possessed of its own system of blood-vessels. By elongating and fusing they (patches or nodules) form a longer or shorter cord. As has been mentioned in a previous chapter, generally one or occasionally both surfaces of these lymphatic structures are covered, not with the ordinary flat large endothelial cells, but with germinating cells. In many instances these lymphatic structures have a long duration; they contain lymph-corpuscles, which are most probably produced in these structures by the connec- tive-tissue corpuscles ; we have then these structures acting like lymphatic glands. In other instances we find them only of a transitory character, being destined to change into fat-cell tissue; they then become deprived of their lymph-corpuscles, and the con- nective-tissue cells, forming the bulk of the nodule, patch or cord, are transformed into fat-cells. We have then here a tissue possessed of its special system of blood-vessels and at one time functioning as lymphatic tissue, at another as fat-cell tissue. In some animals (guinea-pig, rabbit) and man a great part of the tissue in question remains lymphatic tissue, except under very favourable conditions of alimentation, when it is transformed into fat-tissue ; in others (carnivorous animals, mouse, rat) it is more readily changed into fat-tissue. Besides these there are small masses (small groups) of fat-cells found in some places of the serous membranes, which (fat-cells) are embedded in ordinary fibrous connective tissue and are derived from ordinary connective-tissue cells. In some connective tissues, as in the gelatinous tissue, mentioned in the preceding chapter, in the infraorbital fossa of rabbit and in loose cellular tissue, we find a simiiar condition, viz. vascularised groups of multiplying connective-tissue corpuscles preceding the appearance of fat in those cells. In all instances the transformation of a protoplasmic connective-tissue corpuscle H