361 THE TAPETUM OF THE RETINA. former are twice as large as the latter. In the frog the unpigmented part of the cell is covered, according to Angelucci, with a cuticular substance. In albinos generally the cells contain only few pigment granules, but none in the tapetum lucidum of nocturnal animals and ruminants. A large fat globule has been noticed by H. Muller in each of the unpigmented cells of the rabbit. When viewed from the external surface the cells appear polygonal, separated by clear lines (Henle) of the ordinary semifluid albuminous inter- stitial cement-substance (Schwalbe). Most of them are hexagonal or pentagonal, but there are also some with more sides. The cells vary very much in size, the large ones appear isolated and in small groups, as centres around which the small ones are arranged (Kuhnt). According to Morano the cells are broader in the peripheral part of the frog's retina than in the centre, the relation being about 5 to 3 or even less. When viewed in profile, each cell sends between the outer members of the rods (see below) a great number of fine parallel filaments, each of which contains a row of pigment crystals, the individual crystals being sufficiently apart so as to allow the pale substance of the filament to be recognised. As long as the filaments are still within the cell body they are grouped in bundles and are also connected into a network, but they become isolated cilia-like fibrils when entering the level of the rods. The longest and best marked such filaments are present in amphibia, they are only short in man and mammals ; in the former instance they extend as far as the boundary between the outer and inner members of the rods, or according to Merkel, even further, while in man and mammals they as a rule penetrate only a short distance between the rods. These fibrils are closely adhering to the surface of the rods and appear more or less completely to invaginate them (M. Schultze). Under the influence of sunlight they are retracted into the cells (Boll) ; see also below According to Ewald and Kiihne the pigment crystals as such are capable of movement (displacement) within the protoplasm of the cells. The diameter of the cells being as great as that of a number of rods taken together, it follows that each cell of the tapetum covers at once a group of rods. 2. The Rods and Cones. Each rod consists of an outer and inner member. The former is of a cylindrical shape and its substance is bright and glistening. The outer member of both the rods and cones is composed of the neurokeratin of Kiihne and Ewald (Kuhnt). Continued strong light produces a swelling of the rods, but they shrink again when exposed to darkness (Ewald and Kiihne). The substance of the outer member comports itself in most instances different from that of the inner as regards staining power and refraction (M. Schultze, Brown, Rudnew, Valentin, Boll, Kiihne, and others). In the fresh state