74 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Each muscle cell consists of the following parts (Klein) :—(a) of a fine sheath, probably elastic, which possesses transverse linear thickenings—these are especially distinct when the muscle cell or part of it is in a contracted state (sfee below); (6) a central bundle of fibrils representing the contractile substance or the core ; (c) an oblong nucleus which, within a membrane, includes a fine network (Flemming, Klein). This net- work anastomoses at the poles of the nucleus with the bundle of fibrils of the core (Klein). The position of the nucleus varies in different muscle cells ; as a rule it is in about the middle of the long axis of the cell, but there are many instances in which the nucleus is nearer to one extremity than to the other. As a rule the nucleus is contained in the thickest part of the cell. In muscle cells treated with hardening reagents the nucleus is often shrunk, so that its outline becomes wavy and notched. At the ex- tremities the muscle cell is drawn out either into a longer or shorter fine point pushed in between the neighbouring cells. In some instances both extremities are branched, being split into two or more longer or shorter processes. Muscle cells with branched extremities may be found in isolated examples in most instances, but in the arteries and veins they are very numerous. Unstriped muscle tissue varies in different organs as regards the length and thickness of its cells. The longest and thickest muscle cells are found in the intestines, the shortest in the arteries, the thinnest in the sweat-gland tubes. Unstriped muscle tissue is richly supplied with nerves. These will be specially treated in a future chapter on the termination of motor nerves. The blood-vessels, like those of other organs, consist of afferent artery, efferent vein or veins, and a network of capillary vessels. These latter are intrafascicular, they run parallel to the long axis of the bundles, and anastomose by transverse branches into a network. But the number of capillary blood-vessels is on the whole small if compared with the number present in striped muscle tissue.