202 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. that of the muscularis mucosae, vary in different animals, it is inferior in man to that in carnivorous animals. In the dog the muscularis mucosae is very thick, and its bundles are connected with one another in a plexus. The submucous tissue contains the mucous glands; they and their ducts are of the same nature as those of the oral cavity. The glands are scarce in the oesophagus of man, in carnivorous animals they are well developed, forming in the lower half of the organ a continuous stratum. In carnivorous animals the cells lining the gland tubes are mucous cells, showing the same structure and changes during rest, secretion and exhaus- tion, as described of those of the mucous glands of the mouth. The reticulated nature of the cell substance of the gland tubes is shown with great distinctness in the dog. The epithelial cells of the glands in man are beautifully columnar, and show the same changes during rest, secretion, and exhaustion, as mentioned previously. The ducts pass through the muscularis mucosae and the mucosa in a vertical or oblique direction, and open with a narrow mouth on the free surface. The epithelium of the ducts shows the same difference in man and mammals as in the glands of the oral cavity. Outside the submucous tissue is the external muscle coat, consisting in man of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal coat. The former is thicker than the latter in all parts, except the upper fourth. Outside this is a longitudinal thin membrane of fibrous-connective tissue. The trabeculae of the submucous tissue are continuous with the connective tissue separating the muscle bundles of the muscle coats. In man the external muscle coat consists of striped fibres in the upper half of the first fourth, in the second half small bundles of unstriped muscle cells appear gradually amongst the former, their number increases rapidly, so that in about the middle of the oesophagus the striped fibres are altogether replaced by the unstriped ones. In mammals the striped muscle fibres, more or less separated by bundles of unstriped cells, remain to the cardia. In carnivorous animals, the external muscle coat is in many places composed of more than two layers, the muscle bundles having mostly a course more or less spiral around the long axis of the oesophagus. The blood-vessels have a similar distribution as in the pharynx, viz. from the arterial trunks situated in the submucous tissue proceed branches which in the upper part of the mucosa form a network of capillaries, these give off loops for the papillae. The venous branches pass the reverse way, viz. from the superficial network of capil- laries through the tissue of the mucosa, into the venous trunks of the submucosa. The glands of the latter tissue, the muscularis mucosae, and the external muscle coat, possess their own vascular system. The lymphatics form a plexus of capillaries belonging to the surface of the mucosa (Teichmann) ; from them proceed the lymphatics of the papillae, each of these possessing