ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY\ 404 After hardening reagents it is longitudinally striated, owing to being composed of minute fibrils (Nuel). It is dissolved in liquor potassse, but otherwise is very resistant towards reagents (Bottcher). In close contact with the foot and facing the tunnel (Corti), and also with the head (Waldeyer) of both the inner and outer pillars, are separate masses of granular-looking pro- toplasm, each such mass, viz. at the foot and heafl, containing a nucleus (Waldeyer); that of the head is not always distinct ; at the foot the nucleus is small and spherical. The large oval clear nucleus drawn by Waldeyer in Strieker’s book is not the natural state. The protoplasm of the inner pillar in the top scale of the guinea-pig’s cochlea extends along the inner surface of the body of the pillar up to its head, a condition which is maintained by Hensen for the protoplasm of the pillars in general. The protoplasm of the foot of the outer pillar is occasionally continuous over the surface of the membrana basilaris of the tunnel with that of the inner pillar (Bottcher) ; or instead of this arrangement a network of threads (Deiters’ supporting fibres) is found extending between the foot of the outer and inner pillar, see fig. III. of Plate XLV. On the inner side of the inner pillar rest the inner hair cells of Deiters in a single row. These are relatively large and thick cells, each with an oval nucleus and a bundle of fine hairs projecting on their surface. Each of these cells extends into the depth with one or two basilar processes (Bottcher, Gottstein) buried between irregularly outlined nucleated small cells, the ‘granular cells’ of Waldeyer. Inwards of these, having now arrived at the tympanic labium of the crista spiralis, follow columnar epi- thelial cells in a single layer, each with an oval nucleus. They may be appropriately called the inner supporting cells, since they correspond to the supporting cells outside the outer hair cells ; they gradually diminish in height, but at the same time become much broader, and thus pass into the flattened polyhedral epithelial cells lining the sulcus spi- ralis internus. Before passing to the crista spiralis we have to consider the lamina reticularis of Kolliker. This is a cuticular resistant hyaline structure and may be considered as composed of an outer larger and an inner smaller division; the former begins with the head- plates of the outer and inner pillars and extends over the outer hair cells and for a little distance also over Hensen’s supporting cells, while the latter or smaller division begins with the short process oCthe head of the inner pillars, and loses itself over the inner supporting cells.