176 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. By the experiments of Thoma, Arnold, and others it has been proved that indigo sulphate of sodium injected into the circulating system of frog is eliminated from the blood-vessels through the paths just mentioned, only, of course, in a reversed order, viz. from the capillary blood-vessels (through the stigmata) into the lymph-canalicular system, hence into the cement-substance of epithelium or endothelium. 9. The lymph-channels of connective tissue have been described above, and it remains here to mention a few special points : a) The lymph-clefts between groups of bundles in tendons, fasciae and ligaments, mentioned above, are not the ultimate rootlets of the lymphatic system in these organs, for injection-matter may pass from the lymph-clefts into the albuminous cement-sub- stance between the individual bundles forming these groups (Key and Retzius, Herzog). U) Genersich, Ludwig, and Schweigger-Seidel demonstrated on the inner surface of fasciae and aponeuroses a plexus of lymphatic capillaries, the greater number of which run parallel with the connective-tissue bundles; they are connected by a few short cross- branches. On the outer surface, however, the lymphatic capillaries form a plexus with polygonal meshes. From these proceed the efferent trunks possessed of valves. Genersich also showed that the first-named capillaries, viz. the straight vessels on the inner surface, bear the same relation to the lymphatics on the outer surface, as the straight lymphatic capillaries of the central tendon to the plexus of pleural lymphatics of this same organ. Injection matter, introduced into the lymph-clefts situated between striped muscle fibres, passes into the straight lymphatics of the inner surface of the corresponding fascia or aponeurosis, and from here through oblique vessels into the plexus of lymphatics of the outer surface (Genersich, Ludwig, and Schweigger-Seidel). The lymph-clefts between the individual muscle fibres are just like those between the nerve fibres, spaces, whose boundary is formed on one side by the muscle fibre or nerve fibre respectively, and on the other by the connective tissue described and figured in former chapters as endomysium or endoneurium respectively; they pass into lymphatic capillaries situated in the perimysium. In the ligamentum nuchae of ruminants Schwalbe proved the existence of lymphatic vessels, running longitudinally and connected into a network by fine transverse branches. They are situated in the connective tissue separating the bundles of elastic fibres (see the chapter on elastic tissue). In connection with them are lymph-channels and clefts of the connective-tissue between the elastic fibres. 10. The lymphatics of cartilage. The perichondrium of all cartilages possesses a plexus of lymphatic vessels. The lacunae in which the cartilage cells of hyaline and elastic cartilage lie are connected with