ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 194 CHAPTER XXV. ORAL CAVITY, PHARYNX, OESOPHAGUS, AND STOMACH I. The mucous membrane lining the mouth and palate is, in man and mammals, covered with a thick stratified pavement epithelium. The arrangement of this, its minute structure, and the occurrence of prickle cells have been described in Chapter II. The deepest layer of the epithelium is composed of more or less columnar epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus; then follow several layers of polyhedral cells with a spherical nucleus ; nearer to the surface the cells and their nucleus become more flattened, and on the surface itself the cells are transformed into scales, each with a flattened circular nucleus. In the mucous membrane of mouth of man the flattened cells of the most superficial layers possess each a flattened nucleus, except in the transitional part of the lip, that is, the red part seen even when the lips are touching; here many of the superficial cells are horny scales without a distinct nucleus, more or less closely packed together. In mammals we find in many instances the superficial cells with only traces of nuclei in them, and more or less fused into a bright horny stratum. Underneath the epithelium is abasement membrane, a delicate endothelial membrane. Then follows the mucosa, a dense connective-tissue membrane, chiefly composed of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, arranged as smaller or larger trabeculae crossing each other in various directions. The interfascicular lymph spaces, containing the connective-tissue corpuscles and the networks of elastic fibrils attached to the surface of the trabeculae, have been mentioned on several previous occasions. The thickness and firmness of the mucosa varies in different parts ; thus, for instance, the mucosa is much thicker on the lips, angle of mouth, and buccal region than at the bottom of the mouth, soft palate, and palatine arches, and it is much firmer on the gums and hard palate than anywhere else, owing to the tendinous nature of its connective tissue, and its intimate fusion with the fibrous tissue of the subjacent periosteum. In all instances, however, the surface of the mucosa is raised as conical or cylindrical papillae, extending into the epithelium. The tissue of the papillae is rich in connective-tissue cells. The epithelium and sub- epithelial basement membrane adapt themselves to the unevenness thus produced; the masses of epithelium filling the grooves and pits between the papillae have been men- tioned (Chapter II.) as interpapillary processes. About the entrance of the mouth are found occasionally, in new-born children, papillae that pro-