COLOURED CORPUSCLES OF BLOOD. 9 before the addition of tannic acid. On this latter being added in sufficient quantity, the blood-corpuscles are seen to undergo changes represented in fig. XV., i.e. a collection of the haemoglobin in one, two or more droplet-shaped masses—they are occasionally fanlike—takes place at the periphery of a pale disc, which in some instances is single, in others double. In other cases each blood-corpuscle presents at the periphery of a decolorised disc a highly refractive, smaller or larger, particle (Roberts), which may be easily stained by passing dyes through the specimen. The appearances delineated in figures XIV. and XV. are no doubt analogous—viz. being due to a separation of the haemoglobin from the stroma of the blood-corpuscles. Fig. XVI. When to human blood a weak acid, e.g. dilute acetic acid, is added, the coloured corpuscles are decolorised and converted into pale circular discs, each with a sharp outline; in the colourless corpuscles the small nuclei are brought out, as mentioned above. The coloured corpuscles are formed from colourless ones, these altering in shape and the hyaline ground-substance, contained in the meshes of the intracellular network, becoming filled with haemoglobin. In the foetus all blood-corpuscles are at first colourless; these soon become converted into coloured ones, which even in mammals retain the nucleus for a short period. Bottcher, however, maintains that also the adult coloured corpuscles possess a nucleus. It is doutbful whether what Bottcher demonstrates is a nucleus at all. According to Neumann and Bizzozero, the marrow of bones of mammals contains nucleated coloured blood-corpuscles, i.e. intermediary forms between colourless and coloured corpuscles. Blood Crystals. Fig. XVII. H^min-crystals of human blood. The amorphous blood-pigment (Haematin) obtained by the decomposition of haemoglobin can be converted, by means of chlorides, into nut-brown rhombic crystalline plates, haemin or Teichmann’s crystals, i.e. hydrochlorate of haematin. They are formed when dry blood is decom- posed by glacial acetic acid in the presence of chloride of sodium (common salt). In most cases the crystals are notched in at the narrow sides, at the same time they do not appear quite flat, but slightly trough-shaped. Fig. XVIII. Haematoidin-crystals. Red-brown crystalline needles, singly or in bundles, found in extravasated blood. In the present instance the crystals are contained in blood that had been extravasated into the submucous tissue of intestine of pig. c