219 SUBMUCOUS TISSUE OF SMALL INTESTINE. a loose meshwork ; it is the carrier of the blood-vessels, nerves, lymphatic vessels and fat tissue. The structure and arrangement of the lymph follicles, which, as mentioned in a former chapter, occur as solitary or agminated glands, and in the latter instance pro- duce the' Preyer’s patches, have been fully described on page 159. With their body and fundus they are situated in the submucous tissue ; with their summit they are pushed through the muscularis mucosae and reach the free surface of the mucosa, and are covered with columnar epithelium more or less altered by the ingrowth of the adenoid tissue. In the mucosa the adenoid tissue of the lymph follicles merges into the tissue of the former. The submucous tissue of the first part of the duodenum contains the glands of Brunner. These are closely placed, and form a special layer in the submucosa next to the muscularis mucosae. Each gland is a branched and convoluted tube (Schlemmer, Schwalbe, Heidenhain), with large lumen lined by columnar cells of exactly the same structure as those of the pyloric glands (Schwalbe, Watney and others). They undergo the same changes in their structure during rest and secretion as the cells of the pyloric glands (Hirt, Klein). The lumen of the gland tube is continued into minute capillary channels between the epithelial cells lining the lumen (Schwalbe, Klein). The duct emerges from the gland next to the muscularis mucosae, passes through this and ascends in a vertical direction between the crypts of Lieberkiihn of the mucosa, and opens on the free surface of this latter. The duct is narrowest at its beginning—neck of the gland—and is lined by simple columnar epithelium. The difference between a gland of Brunner and one of the pyloric end of the stomach consists chiefly in the much greater length of the duct and in the greater length and number of the tubes belonging to one gland. The glands of Brunner are separated by thin trabeculae of fibrous-connective tissue ; bundles of unstriped muscle cells, derived from the muscularis mucosae, pass between and outside them (Verson). Where the pyloric end of the stomach is in contact with the duodenum the pyloric glands can be directly traced into the Brunners glands (Cobelli, Watney), the tubes becoming larger, more numerous, and being gradually pushed from the mucosa into the submucous tissue. At the point of transition the muscularis mucosae is generally more or less interrupted. In the dog there is a zone of appreciable dimensions that does not possess any continuous muscularis mucosae, and in this zone the transformation of the pyloric glands into the glands of Brunner is very well shown. W ith regard to the external muscle coat there is little to be added to what has been already mentioned ; the circular layer is generally thicker than the longitudinal. The plexus myentericus of Auerbach, situated between the two muscle layers, is