435 THE SUPRARENAL BODY. be therefore assumed that the lymphatics are concerned in the removal of the contents of the alveoli. The alveoli of the thyroid gland being surrounded by a dense network of capillary blood-vessels, just like the alveoli of other secreting glands, it is highly probable that the epithelial lining also of the former, i.e. of the alveoli of the thyroid gland, pours out a secretion into the alveolar cavities ; this helps to macerate, as it were, and to break up the blood thrown into them (cavities). The so prepared alveolar contents are absorbed by the interalveolar lymphatics and finally carried away altogether through the efferent lymphatic vessels. The absorption of the alveolar contents by the interalveolar lymphatics is, no doubt, effected in the same manner as in other organs, viz. through the interstitial cement-substance between the epithelial cells (see Chapter XXII. p. 175). 3. The Suprarenal Body. This organ is the least understood, being the most complex of the ductless glands. In the suprarenal body of man and mammals the cortex is distinguished from the medulla. The first shows an outer, a middle, and an inner zone. The middle zone is always the most conspicuous one, and on account of its general aspect is called zona fasciculata (Arnold) ; but there is less reason for calling the outer zone zona glomerulosa; the inner zone is the zona reticularis. The medulla is conspicuous by the dense plexuses of its blood-vessels; it is well developed, and forms a continuous central mass throughout the organ in most mammals ; but in man I do not find it of this nature, since in many places it is wanting, or is reduced into insignificant thin patches ; thus in the marginal portions very little of it is to be met with. The framework is made up of the capsule and the connective tissue of the interior. The capsule is of variable thickness, and composed of trabeculae of fibrous connective tissue with numerous networks of elastic fibrils between. The deepest layer of it con- tains slender bundles of unstriped muscle cells. In connection with the capsule are thinner and thicker septa and trabeculae passing inwards; these contain longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscle cells ; they are especially distinct and numerous in the dog. In the outer zone of the cortex the connective-tissue septa and trabeculae are rela- tively thick and anastomose into a plexus. In the zona fasciculata they become very attenuated, and possess a longitudinal arrangement, i.e. radiating from the capsule towards the interior; they are very numerous and arranged more or less regularly, so that longitudinal spaces are left between them of very nearly equal diameter. In the inner zone of the cortex the connective-tissue septa become again arranged into plexuses