66 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. From the foregoing description it is clear that the development and growth of bone in length and thickness is essentially a process of apposition of new layers or new masses of osseous substance, as had been maintained by experimenters like Hunter, Flourens, Duhamel, Ollier, and others, against Volkmann, Wolf, and others; the last- named observers regarding growth of bone due to interstitial enlargement of osseous matter once formed. Osseous substance once formed, undergoes only slight interstitial growth, as is proved by the slight change of distance of the bone corpuscles at different ages (Ruge). In several instances absorption has been mentioned in connection with the different stages of development of bone. As long as bone grows there is also absorption going on in some place or other. In long bones there is a constant absorption of bone near the marrow cavity as long as the periosteum continues to produce new layers of bone—that is to say, as long as the bone grows in thickness. The absorption of compact substance next the marrow cavity proceeds in a manner contrary to that of the formation of it; the concentric lamellae, which are the parts last formed, succumb first ; hereby the Haversian canals are widened, and are again transformed into Haversian spaces ; after the disappearance of the concentric lamellae the intersti- tial lamellae are absorbed, and the Haversian spaces become lost in the central marrow cavity. And a similar process occurs in the conversion of compact into spongy bone, as exemplified in the diploe of flat and short bones. Absorption of bone is also present in the spongy bone of the apophyses and the extremities of the diaphysis of the adult long bones, while these continue to grow in length. Just as in the embryonal spongy bone, so also in the spongy bone formed in the adult in the places just named, greater or smaller portions of the osseous trabeculae, first formed, are absorbed, and replaced by lamellar bone substance. Many bones possess on their surface, underneath the periosteum, larger or smaller, deeper or shallower, circular, oblong, or irregular pits—Howship’s lacunae—which owe their origin to absorption of bone. Absorption of osseous substance is a never-failing companion of many diseases of bone. The absorption of osseous substance is in most instances (embryonal and adult) associated with the presence of the multinuclear giant cells (Kolliker) mentioned on former pages, and being regarded as the chief agencies of absorption, are called Osteoclasts (Kolliker). Osteoclasts have been noticed also in absorption of bone under pathological conditions (Wegner, Morison, and others). But in the course of absorption of calcified cartilage, as during the development of endochondral bone in general, and especially at the extremities of the shaft of long bones,