STRUCTURE OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAJVD. 191 mucin, and as such stains deeply blue in hematoxylin ; on account of its imbibition with water, it greatly increases in bulk, and hence produces an increase in the size of the cells (Heidenhain). The meshes of the intracellular network are hereby much enlarged, and the cell therefore looks more transparent. In the first state the reticulum in the inner portion of the cell possesses a longitudinal arrangement (Klein), and hence the cell substance appears as if longitudinally striated. 2) The crescents of Gianuzzi represent semilunar groups of parietal ‘granular’ cells applied from place to place to the outer surface of the mucous cells but inside the membrana propria (Heidenhain). The parietal cells are small polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus (Heidenhain, Asp). The substance of these cells appears granular owing to its being composed of a very dense reticulum with very little inter- stitial substance in its meshes. During secretion also the crescents become enlarged (Lavdowsky, Klein), and the alveolus as a whole is larger, although its lumen is somewhat reduced in size. In an exhausted gland (by electric stimulation or chemical action), the transparent mucous cells disappear as such, the alveoli are much smaller, being now lined only with poly- hedral or short columnar ‘granular’ cells similar to the parietal cells. Heidenhain, Boll, and Lavdowski conclude from this that the mucous cells have become destroyed, and that the parietal cells have taken their place, probably in consequence of a process of new formation. Ewald, however, explains the same appearance by assuming that the mucous cells, in consequence of the exhaustion, have lost all their mucous contents, and have shrunk into small ‘ granular’ cells. Ranvier, v. Eberth, and others also question the accuracy of Heidenhain’s interpretation. Under ordinary conditions of secretion, how- ever, the mucous cells do not become destroyed nor ever alter their appearances more than is indicated above (Klein), viz. a reticulum with transparent mucigen in its meshes, is found in the resting state, while during secretion its meshes become enlarged owing to the contents having swollen up and transformed into mucin. Judging by analogy (see below) the mucous cells when exhausted very probably become much smaller, their network being closer and containing in its meshes much less interstitial substance, and hence the cells present a ‘granular’ aspect. This is borne out also by experiment, for through Heidenhain, Pfliiger, Lavdowsky, Ewald, and others it is known that the saliva secreted by the exhausted gland is watery, while in a previous stage it is mucus. The explanation of this would then seem to be this: when the mucous cells have discharged all their mucin, that is, when their substance has become ‘granular,Tike chat of the cells of true salivary gland, also their secretion becomes similar to that of the latter, viz. watery. In the submaxillary gland of young animals all transitional stages are met with between small alveoli with small lumen lined only with small ‘ granular ’ cells, and