236 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XXIX. LARYNX AND TRACHEA, BRONCHI AND LUNG. 1. The Larynx. The support of the epiglottis is formed by the reticular or elastic cartilage with its fibrous perichondrium, described and figured in Chapter VIII. The anterior surface is covered with stratified pavement epithelium; this in no way differs from that found in the neighbourhood of the epiglottis, viz. root of tongue or pharynx; the mucous membrane underneath the epithelium is fibrous tissue of loose texture, containing a network of numerous and wide lymphatics. The part next the epi- thelium, the mucosa, is densest and projects in the form of numerous small papillae into the epithelium. The network of capillary blood-vessels is distributed in this superficial portion of the mucous membrane. In the deep or submucous portion, that is the one close to the perichondrium, are imbedded (in man) small branched tubular mucous glands, whose ducts pass in an oblique direction to the free surface, and open here with a wide mouth. In carnivorous animals the glands are very rare. The structure of these glands and their duct is similar to that of the glands of the pharynx and oesophagus. The large lumen of the gland tubes of the epiglottis and other parts of the larynx are lined with epithelial cells, which are either : columnar transparent ‘ mucous ’ cells, each with a flattened nucleus, like those of the gland tubes in the oral cavity (see p. 196), or: they are columnar cells the substance of which is apparently granular and longitudinally striated, the intracellular network being dense and pre-eminently longitudinal; the nucleus is spherical and lies in the outer third ; or: the two kinds of cells are side by side in the same tube. There are also tubes in which, outside the lining ‘ mucous ’ cells, are ‘crescents’ of granular polyhedral cells (Heidenhain, Tarchetti, Klein). The difference between the two kinds of cells has been described on a former occasion, and it has been stated to consist in the fact that the former are in a state of secretion (the intracellular network distended by mucigen or mucin) while the latter are in a state of rest or exhaustion. The duct is lined with a layer of beautiful columnar cells, and outside this is generally a layer of small poly- hedral cells. The mucous membrane covering the posterior surface, although similar to that of the anterior surface, differs from it in certain essential points, and hence the two may be readily distinguished. The differences are as follows : (a)- the stratified pavement epithelium is distinctly thinner than on the anterior surface ; (6) the mucous membrane extends into the epithelium as small papillae, which are shorter and fewer than on the anterior surface ; the texture of the mucous membrane is much denser on the posterior