ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. io8 posterior tracts of the white matter of the cord through the pyramidal crossing into the crus and through this directly into the corona radiata. The projection system of the third order comprises the tracts of nerve fibres belonging to the roots of the cerebral nerves. The white matter of the cerebellum, besides the above connection with the hemi- spheres, passes through the fasciculus cuneatus and gracilis (Burdach) into the posterior tract, through the corpus restiforme into the lateral tract of the white matter of the spinal cord. Stilling’s great work on the cerebellum gives a detailed account of the course of the fibres in that organ. C) The grey matter is distributed in the following four categories (Meynert) : (I) as the cortex of the cerebral hemispheres; (II) as the large cerebral ganglia, viz. corpus striatum, corpora albicantia, thalamus opticus and corpus quadrigeminum; (III) as the grey substance of the medulla oblongata, rhomboidal fossa, and aqueductus Sylvii, the grey matter lining the ventricles, the tuber cinereum and infundibulum ; (IV) as the cortex and central grey matter of the cerebellum. In all parts of the grey matter we find, besides the neuroglia, a dense network of fine fibrils (Rindfleisch, Gerlach), directly connected with the terminal branches of repeatedly dividing fine medullated nerve fibres. This fine network corresponds completely to Gerlach’s nerve network of the grey matter of the spinal cord. Embedded in the nerve network are ganglion cells, which vary as regards size, shape and arrangement in the different systems of the grey matter; they are everywhere multipolar, and their processes lose themselves in the nerve network. Most of the ganglion cells possess however an unbranched axis-cylinder process that passes into the white matter, viz. becomes sooner or later invested in a medullary sheath, thus representing a medullated nerve fibre. I) Meynert distinguishes in the cortex of the cerebral hemispheres of man five layers : 1) The superficial layer containing only few and small multipolar ganglion cells, the great bulk being occupied by neuroglia and the nerve network. 2) The next layer possesses a large number of densely aggregated small ganglion cells of a more or less pyramidal shape. 3) Then follows the chief layer, being the broadest and containing a large number of not particularly crowded pyramidal ganglion cells of large size. The pyramidal ganglion cells of these two layers are always placed vertically to the surface of the grey