ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 68 spongy bone, whose trabeculae still include thin (linear) masses of calcified cartilage, stained deeply purple. On the left side of the section there is still to be seen a definite boundary between the periostal and endochondral bone ; in the right part of the section all endochondral bone has disappeared. Fig. II. From a section through a dried frontal bone (not macerated) of man, showing the lamellar arrangement of the osseous ground-substance, and between the lamellae the oblong lacunae of the bone corpuscles with their numerous canaliculi. The bone having been dried, the bone cells and their processes contained in the lacunae and their canaliculi have disappeared, the latter being now filled chiefly with air. In transmitted light they therefore appear black, the ground-substance being transparent; and in reflected light the lacunae and canaliculi are bright, while the ground-substance is dark. Fig. III. From a transverse section through part of shaft (compact substance) of dried radius (not macerated) of man. a) Systems of concentric or Haversian lamellae ; between the latter are seen the lacunae of the bone corpuscles ; their canaliculi pass transversely through the lamellae, and open into the central or Haversian canal. b) Interstitial or ground-lamellae, and between them the bone corpuscles. The Haversian canals, owing to the bone having been dried, are filled with air and dry remains, and appear therefore black. Fig. IV. From a longitudinal section through the head of humerus and adjoining portion of shaft of foetal kitten ; the section had been stained first in carmine and then in haematoxylin. a) Part of epiphysis next the intermediary cartilage ; it is spongy bone, of which here only a few broad trabeculae (stained pink) are shown ; they still include consider- able masses of unabsorbed calcified cartilage, stained deeply in logwood. The bone corpuscles are indicated by their minute nuclei. Between the trabeculae of this spongy bone is a vascular and cellular marrow, not detailed in this figure. b) Hyaline cartilage, the remains of the foetal cartilaginous epiphysis; on this cartilage encroaches the spongy bone of the epiphysis; the cartilage next to the part (a) is more transparent, owing to the cartilage lacunae being enlarged ; the cartilage ground-substance of this zone becomes gradually calcified, and therefore stains deeply in logwood. c) Intermediary cartilage ; the cartilage cells are arranged in longitudinal rows. d) Extremity of the shaft; the cartilage near it is more transparent, owing to the lacunae being enlarged; these lacunae gradually merge into the marrow spaces of the spongy substance of d, while the cartilage cells disappear. The ground-substance