324 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. so as to form a sharp angle with the hair axis ; it grasps the bottom of the sebaceous gland like a sling (Hesse), and when arrived at the surface of the corium its bundles branch and anastomose so as to form a plexus more or less horizontally placed. The bundles, after a shorter or longer course, lose themselves in the connective tissue of the papillary layer of the corium. The arrector pili of dog’s hairs includes very many elastic fibrils (Stirling). At the point of insertion of the arrector pili into the hair-sac we often see the outer root sheath forming one or two smaller or larger projections. Similar but more finger- shaped and more numerous projections are found in those hairs, both of children and adults, that are to be shed. These projections indicate probably an active growth of the cells of the outer root sheath, and are due to the permanent irritation caused by the (pulling) action of the arrector pili. In the hair-follicles in which the old hair is to be replaced by a new one, we com- monly see one or two, or even three, such projections of the outer root sheath, each transformed into a cyst; this contains a large transparent cavity, and its wall is made up of several cell layers, which by a solid thinner or thicker neck are connected with the cells of the outer root sheath. Derby and Gay found such cystic outgrowths under pathological conditions, but Esoff has shown that they are of normal occurrence in the hairs that are to be shed. The corium of the scrotum, nipple of the breast, labia pudendi majora, penis, contains independent bundles of unstriped muscle cells; these bundles are of various thicknesses and run in an oblique or horizontal direction in all layers of the skin, but are always connected into plexuses, as has been long ago pointed out by Kolliker, to whose observations we owe most of our knowledge of the muscles present in the skin of man. Striped muscle fibres in bundles enter the skin of the face from outside and terminate in the papillary layer of the corium. Growth, development and new formation of the hair and hair-follicle. The hair grows at the bulb, owing to the multiplication of its protoplasmic cells, chiefly those immediately surrounding the papilla. The oldest cells, viz. those furthest from the papillae, become gradually elongated, and are then to be regarded already as part of the substance of the hair. The layer of cells containing the elements of the cuticle of the hair keeps pace with the substance of the hair. But the cells forming the inner root sheath do not grow at the same rate, being very much slower ; this latter keeps the same pace as the external root sheath of the hair-follicle.