ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 98 the membranous canal is placed excentrically, and, as in the case of the semi-circular canals, next the convex surface of the bone capsule. In the human cochlea it is generally asserted that the scala vestibuli is smaller than the scala tympani; but in the cochlea of the guinea-pig the scala vestibuli is distinctly larger than the scala tympani. The canalis or ductus cochlearis consists of the following parts : (i) The membrane of Reissner; (2) the ligamentum spirale—vestibular portion; (3) the membrana basilaris or lamina spiralis membranacea ; and (4) the crista spiralis. The crista spiralis and membrana basilaris form the lower or tympanic, the liga- mentum spirale the outer, and the membrana Reissneri the inner or vestibular boundary of the triangular cochlear canal. The three angles are : the oiitcr or sulcus spiralis externus, the 7ippcr or angulus vestibularis superior, and the inner or angulus vestibularis inferior. At the first the membrana basilaris passes into the ligamentum spirale (zona pectinata) ; at the second the ligamentum spirale is in contact with the membrane of Reissner; and at the third this membrane passes into the inner end of the crista spiralis (habenula sulcata auct.). Passing from the upper to the inner vestibular angle we meet with the membrane of Reissner, which does not present any unevenness at any point. Passing from the inner to the outer angle, i.e. along the lower wall of the cochlear canal, we meet with the following parts (see figs. I., II., and III. of Plate XLV.) : The crista spiralis. The sulcus spiralis interims, situated between the labium vestibulare and labium tympanicum (Huschke) of the crista spiralis. The habenula perforata, that is the row of holes through which the nerve fibres pass into the lamina spiralis ossea. The organ of Corti. The outer extremity of the membrana basilaris or the zona pectinata. Passing from the outer angle, i.e. the sulcus spiralis externus, to the upper vestibular angle, that is along the vestibular part of the ligamentum spirale, we meet with the liga- mentum spirale accessorium, including thevas prominens, and finally the stria vascularis. The membrane of Reissner consists of two layers of flattened cells separated by an exceedingly delicate hyaline membrana propria. The layer of cells lining the surface looking into the cavity of the cochlear canal is composed of polyhedral somewhat flattened cells of epithelial, i.e. epiblastic origin, being derived from the primary otic vesicle. Each cell consists of a transparent substance and an oval nucleus.