STRUCTURE OF EPITHELIUM OF RENAL TUBULES. 257 more or less complete rods or fibrils, placed vertically to the long axis of the tube. This fact was first pointed out by Heidenhain and is easily verified in the kidney of most mammals and man, especially when prepared with chromate of ammonia. These rods or fibrils, as already shown by Heidenhain, are generally most distinct in the outer part of the epithelial cell, that is the part near the membrana propria, while the inner part appears more uniformly and finely granular. But the rods or fibrils, when looked at from the surface, are clearly connected into a network (Klein), so that they are more / probably septa of a honey-combed network seen in profile. Wherever the cells show these ‘ rods,’ their (cells) shape is polyhedral, or in some parts, to be presently mentioned, more or less flattened ; many of them are angular and possessed of minute prolongations wedged in between neighbouring cells. In the proximal convoluted tubule (3), now under consideration, the epithelial cells are, on the whole, polyhedral or short columnar. They are of unequal size, some being broader and longer than others. The sides of the cells are not straight, but either con- vex or concave, the convex sides of one cell fitting into the concave ones of its neigh- bours. The outer angles, viz. those next the membrana propria, possess in some cells short angular prolongations. As already mentioned, they show distinct vertical striation, especially in the outer part of their substance. A spherical nucleus is found in each cell in about the middle of its substance. The first epithelial cells immediately next the neck are much shorter than the fol- lowing ones, and this produces the appearance of a sudden tapering off of the epithe- lium towards the neck. The height of the lining epithelial cells and the lumen of the tube vary consider- ably in the convoluted tubules in different kidneys of man and mammals and in different parts of the same kidney, for in some instances the epithelial cells are considerably larger, being cylindrical with convex free surface, and the lumen consequently smaller than in others. The substance of the cells is in these tubes more opaque than in those with polyhedral cells and large lumen. Judging by analogy from the experience of Strieker and Spina, this is probably due to a difference in the state of function, the latter ap- pearance, viz. the cylindrical cells, the small lumen and the lesser transparency of the tubule as a whole, indicating an active state of secretion. 4. The spiral tubule, first pointed out by Schachowa as a definite section, possesses a more or less spiral course in the medullary ray; its thickness and the relation of its more or less columnar epithelium and lumen are about the same as in the convoluted tubule, just described. The striation of the epithelial cells is very distinct in the first part of the tube, but gradually, as the boundary layer is approached, it becomes less so,