289 STRUCTURE OF OVUM. is not visible, it is impossible to say. They are not to be confounded with the groups of interstitial epithelial cells mentioned on a former page; both differ in shape, size, ar- rangement, and appearance. Not all those masses that are connected with a Grafian follicle are solid prolonga- tions of the epithelium of this latter; some show a small cavity, are therefore tubular, and still others, being at the same time larger, contain an ovum. Some of the large Grafian follicles are possessed of one or two solid prolongations, others, in addition, communicate with one or two small follicles each with an ovum. In the latter case we find, then, two or three Grafian follicles in open communication with one another ; they are either very different in size (development), one or two being comparable to a small or middle-sized follicle, while the third may be a fully developed one ; or they appear of nearly the same size. The communication may be through a narrow neck, as in some, or wide open, as in other instances. The Grafian follicles with two or three ova are only modifications of the last-named plan (see below). The ovum is a nucleated cell, varying in size according to the size of the follicle. In the smallest follicles the substance of the ovum is in immediate contact with the flat epithelial cells of the Grafian follicle ; but in the follicles of the next larger sizes, that is, whose epithelial cells are polyhedral or even columnar, there is a distinct bright membrane, zona pellucida, surrounding the substance of the ovum. The larger the ovum the thicker the zona pellucida. In all cases, from the smallest follicles that contain a zona pellucida to the fully formed ones, in which the ovum lies in its discus proligerus, the outer surface of the zona pellucida appears to form a direct continuity with the interstitial cement-substance, between the epithelial cells of the follicle ; hence, when the outer surface of the zona pellucida is seen in the bird’s- eye view, it shows the outlines or impressions of the surrounding epithelial cells. This connection of the zona pellucida with the interstitial substance seems to indicate that the former is a product, a cuticular excretion, of the epithelial cells themselves. The zona pellucida of the ripe ovum shows a very fine (vertical) striation, which, according to Pfliiger, Leydig, and Waldeyer, is due to the substance of the epithelial cells, immediately surround- ing the zona pellucida, being continuous as fine rods or threads into the latter membrane. The substance of the ovum is very transparent; in the large ova it contains the yolk granules. In sections through the hardened ovary of the rabbit, dog, cat, guinea pig, the protoplasm contains a more or less distinct reticulum of fine fibrils. In the larger ova the protoplasm surrounding the germinal vesicle is generally more transparent than that next the zona pellucida (Pfliiger). These two substances also stain differently in osmic acid (Romiti). The nucleus or germinal vesicle of the small ova, i.e. those next the albuginea,