GERMINATING ENDOTHELIUM. 2 I same organ in different parts. Thus, for instance, they are considerably larger in the subcutaneous lymph-sacs than in blood-vessels of frog ; in mammals they are far larger in the sheaths of tendons and nerve-bundles than in serous membranes, and amongst these the omentum is covered with larger endothelial plates than the pericardium. In many instances we find, however, isolated, or larger or smaller, groups of endothelial plates smaller than their neighbours, they are at the same time less flattened, more polyhedral, and even in the fresh state easier recognised, on account of their substance being more ‘ granular,’ less transparent than that of the ordinary large flat endothelial plates. The nucleus of these small polyhedral cells is either single, or in a state of division, or it is already divided into two. These cells represent germinating endothelial cells (Klein). They are present in many serous membranes of young and adult indi- viduals, on synovial membranes, on the tunica albuginea testis, on the endocardium of young individuals. They acquire a very great extension under pathological processes. The omentum and pleura mediastini of mammalian animals are especially rich in smaller or larger groups of such germinating endothelial cells. In many instances they are found on the surface of special thickenings of the normal membrane—to be described in a later chapter—which present themselves to the unaided eye, according to their size, as larger or smaller opaque patches, nodules, or cords, many of them in connection with the vascular system. In some instances the germinating endothelial cells are found on peculiar villous or papillary projections, found especially under pathological conditions,—e.g. chronic, and also acute inflammations—in serous and synovial mem- branes, in the processus vaginalis and tunica albuginea testis, and the membranes of the central nervous system. In some cases, e.g. omentum and pleura mediastini, the germinating endo- thelium contains cells which are in the act of division, or such as are becoming gradually altogether detached from the membrane. In the latter instance we find them club-shaped or pear-shaped, and connected with the membrane by a thinner or thicker, longer or shorter stalk. When this breaks the cell is free of the membrane. While in the process of detaching itself the cell becomes possessed of the power of amoeboid movement, and it thus also in this important character approaches the nature of a lymph-corpuscle or colourless blood-corpuscle. After these cells have become freed of the membrane, they find their way into the lymphatic vessels, and hence into the blood- vessels, as colourless blood-corpuscles. In many mammals the amount of such germi- nating endothelium in the omentum and pleura mediastini is very great indeed, and hence these membranes play an important part in the generation of lymph- and colour- less blood-corpuscles. Besides these last-named membranes, there are others which contain germinating