275 DEVELOPMENT OF SPERMATOZOA. shaped, granular mass, separated from the former by a clear sac or tube, these so altered spermatoblasts, which we shall henceforth designate as the ‘ young spermatozoa,’ assume a definite arrangement, becoming collected into more or less conical, pyramidal, or fan- shaped groups, the stalk of which is sunk in between the inner seminal epithelial cells (see figs. VI.-VIII. of Plate XXXIX.). The young spermatozoa in each group are so placed that their nucleus, or head, is directed outwards, that is, towards the seminal epithelium, their granular bodies looking in the opposite direction, that is, towards the lumen. As the spermatozoa elongate, the above groups also elongate, and their stalk becomes much thinner; this latter contains now only the nucleus of the sper- matozoa (see figs. VII. and VIII. of Plate XXXIX.). The stalk remains sunk in between the seminal epithelial cells. It is impossible to say what causes this peculiar arrangement of the developing spermatozoa in groups, or how they are fixed in between the seminal cells. The young spermatozoa in each group are held together by a transparent, sometimes indistinctly granular interstitial substance. The inner broad ends of these groups, viz. next to the lumen of the seminal tube, are in the last-named stages close to one another, and connected into a network by a transparent, finely granular interstitial substance. This latter arrangement, viz. into a network, is of course shown only when these groups are viewed from the surface. Sooner or later, both the interstitial substance between the groups, as well as that be- tween the individual spermatozoa, breaks up, and the spermatozoa, having reached their full development, become detached from one another. The condition in which the seminal tubes, or the different sections of the same tube, present themselves, is, then, one of the following : (1) between the membrana propria and the lumen of the tube we meet with (a) the outer seminal cells, (b) the inner seminal cells, these latter in two or more layers, but in various stages, preparatory to division ; then follow (c) the daughter cells, or spermatoblasts, in one or more layers, but loosely connected. Or, (2) a and b are the same, but the spermatoblasts begin to change into young spermatozoa. Or, (3) a and b as before ; c, contains distinct young spermatozoa grouped in a definite manner ; these groups are short and thick. Or, (4) a and b as before ; c, the young spermatozoa are more developed and longer, their groups are more pyramidal, and each with a thin stalk sunk in between the inner seminal cells ; the free or broad ends of the groups are connected into a net- work by an interstitial substance. Finally, (5) a and b as before; c, the groups of young spermatozoa are disintegrating, the fully-formed spermatozoa becoming isolated. In the latter or even the previous condition we may find the inner seminal cells under- going again division into daughter cells. The formation of the spermatozoa is not fixed to any definite locality, nor does it T T