ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 3IQ stitial or cement-substance between the epithelial cells can be traced into the similar substance containing the lymph-canalicular system and separating the bundles of con- nective-tissue of the matrix of the papillse, a relation which has been minutely described on a former occasion, Chapter XXII. p. 175, in connection with the epithelium of mucous membranes and the endothelium of serous membranes. And just as in the case of the mucous- and serous membranes, so also in the skin, the branched lymph-spaces and the connective-tissue corpuscles of the papillae extend into, or rather are continuous with, branched lymph-spaces and their cells situated in the interstitial cement-substance of the stratum Malpighii; here they may be seen to extend between the cells of the deeper and middle layers, their processes extending chiefly in a direction parallel to the surface ; hence they are better seen in horizontal sections through the stratum Malpighii; their processes are then seen to lose themselves in the interstitial substance. These branched connective- tissue cells are very conspicuous, and easily perceived when they contain pigment gra- nules, as is the case in the pigmented parts of the skin of lower vertebrates and of mammals, as well as in the skin of dark individuals, and in the pigmented localities of the skin in general. These pigment granules are not to be confounded with the ones present in the substance of the deepest epithelial cells themselves. The intraepithelial branched nucleated connective-tissue cells have been mentioned in Chapter II. on p. 18; they are met with not only in all parts of the skin of man, mammals, and lower vertebrates, but also in all epithelium of mucous membranes and glands, as has been pointed out on many previous occasions. Biesiadecki saw them in the epidermis of the human skin, but took them to be leucocytes migrating into the epithelium to become there converted into epithelial cells. Langerhans found them an chloride of gold specimens, since they become deeply stained by this reagent, and chiefly for this reason they were by this observer and by Podkopaeff believed to be nerve terminations. Eberth and Eimer also saw them ; the latter found them to be very numerous in the nipple of the cow, but did not regard them as connected with nerve fibres. That they very probably are possessed of amoeboid movement is shown by: (1) the very great differences exhibited by their processes; in some instances they are possessed of short thick knoblike processes, in others of long filamentous branched ones ; (2) in the intraepithelial pigmented and unpigmented cells of the epithelium of the tail of the tadpole such movements, although slow, can be nevertheless distinctly observed. Similar move- ments have been observed in the intraepithelial branched cells of the cornea by v. Recklinghausen, Strieker, and others. Early in the foetal state the branched connective-tissue cells of the skin and mucous membranes grow into the epidermis or epithelium respectively of the surface, and