STRUCTURE OF CONNECTIVE-TISSUE CELLS. 29 corpuscles are found to expand chiefly between the lamellae in a horizontal manner, but there are also such cells as are arranged obliquely, or even vertically, to the general direction of the lamellae (Rollett). In the case of cornea, serous membranes, and other membranous expansions of connective tissue, e.g. the connective-tissue lamellae that can be obtained from the subcutaneous or submucous tissue, it can be shown that each connective-tissue corpuscle is composed of two distinct substances (Klein) : (a) a hyaline plate—ground-plate—which contains the oval nucleus, the substance of which is a dense network—intranuclear network ; and (^)-a second substance—a network of minute fibrils, intracelhilar network —arranged always more copiously at one side of the nucleus than at the other, and extending from here beyond the limits of the ground-plate, as finer or thicker branched or unbranched processes. This second substance is in connection with the intranuclear network. The ground-plate extends only on the more membranous processes. It is probable that also in the case of the connective-tissue cells possessed of a chief plate and secondary plates with fine filamentous processes, we have to distinguish the hyaline substance containing the nucleus from the network of minute fibrils extending beyond the limits of both chief and secondary plates ; the difference being only that here the ground-plate is not a single flat plate, as is the case in the serous membranes, but sends off under different angles several other plates—secondary plates. The ‘ granular ’ appearance of the connective-tissue cells is due to the density of the intracellular network. The branched nucleated corpuscles, entirely composed of ‘granular’ protoplasm, as they represent themselves under various conditions, are only one part of the corpuscle, viz. the nucleus and the surrounding network of fibrils, i.e. substance b mentioned above, the hyaline ground-plate not being then perceptible. Whereas the representation of connective-tissue corpuscles as hyaline unbranched plates with an oval nucleus refers also only to one part of the connective-tissue corpuscle, viz. nucleus and the ground-plate, i.e. substance a mentioned above. PLATE VII. Figures I. II. and IV. drawn with a magnifying power of about 450 ; the other figures with one of about 350. Fig. I. A portion of fenestrated omentum of adult guinea-pig. The omentum had been stained first in nitrate of silver and then in logwood. The plexus of connec- tive bundles forming the fenestrations is stained faintly in haematoxylin ; it is covered on both surfaces with endothelium, as mentioned on a former occasion ; the nuclei of the endothelial cells are brought out very well, and contain a uniform dense network. The