LYMPHATICS OF SEROUS MEMBRANES. 17i branches which are connected into a plexus ; from this come off fine non-medullated fibres which are characterised by their relatively long course; according to Cyon they terminate in free endings in the tissue, but according to Klein and Gempt they are con- nected into a network; most of the nerves belong however to the blood-vessels. The nerve branches contain occasionally small groups of ganglion cells. The lymphatics are numerous in all serous membranes ; the tubular trunks possess valves, and some of the larger vessels also a layer of circular muscle cells : they form plexuses chiefly in the neighbourhood and around the larger bood-vessels ; some of these latter are occasionally ensheathed in a continuous perivascular lymphatic tube (omentum of rabbit, mesentery of frog) or in an intercommunicating system of lymph-sinuses lined with endothelium (mesentery of toad). The parts of the serous membrane situated between the large vascular trunks contain the lymphatic capillaries which are every- where connected with the lymph-canalicular system, as described above. The lymphatics of the central tendon of the diaphragm and the intercostal pleura possess special characters. a) The central tendon of the diaphragm of rodents. The matrix of this is a double layer of tendon bundles ; one layer, nearest to the peritoneum, is composed of bundles more or less radiating from the centre towards the periphery, while the other, nearest to the pleura, contains more or less circular bundles, crossing the former under a right angle. Between groups of these bundles are lymphatic channels (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel); they are lymphatic capillaries, the wall of which is a single layer of endothelial plates with sinuous outlines : they are the straight lymphatic capillaries (Klein). Those of them that belong to the radiating layer of tendon bundles possess naturally a radiating direction, and represent the superficial, while those of the circular layer are arranged circularly, crossing the former under a right angle and represent the deep straight lymph-capillaries. But the vessels of both layers form an intercommu- nicating and therefore single system, being connected with each other by small openings, chiefly at the point of crossing. This matrix of tendon bundles is covered on the pleural surface with a delicate but dense connective-tissue membrane, the pleura, which on its free surface is covered with a layer of ordinary flattened endothelial plates. There is always a more or less continuous subendothelial membrana propria, a single layer of flattened cell. These are either unbranched, and touch each other in straight lines like an endothelium, or they are branched and form a network. The peritoneal surface of the tendon bundles is also covered with a delicate connective-tissue membrane, the peritoneum ; but this membrane is complete only where it stretches over the tendon bundles themselves, while that portion of it that covers the radiating or superficial straight lymph-capillaries is a