DEVELOPMENT OF THE HAIR-FOLLICLE. 325 The rudiments of the first hairs appear in the human foetus about the end of the third month, and, just as in mammals, are at first solid knoblike outgrowths of the stratum Malpighii into the corium (Remak, Kolliker), especially of the deepest layer of columnar cells. In some instances the corium shows a slight elevation preceding the formation of the rudiment of the hair (Reissner, Gotte) ; but this is absent in many instances (Feiertag). The rudiment of the hair rapidly elongating becomes cylindrical, and we notice in it the following different elements : the majority of the cells are small and poly- hedral, in the marginal layer they are hexagonal or slightly columnar; the former possess a spherical, the latter an oval nucleus ; the cells and their nuclei in the axial portion of the hair-rudiment are slightly flattened. There is a distinct limiting mem- brane between the marginal layer of cells and the surrounding tissue; this membrane represents the rudiment of the glassy basement membrane. Each of the hair- rudiments is from the earliest time surrounded by a thick layer of a tissue altogether different from the rest of the corium and representing the rudiment of the hair-sac; it is well marked off from the corium, is composed of a network of flattened, spindle-shaped or branched cells, and stains as a whole better than the rest of the corium ; although relatively very bulky, it nevertheless can be traced directly to a thin layer similarly constituted and situated immediately underneath the epithelium of the surface, that is to say, a layer which gives origin to the papillary body of the corium. On a previous page we have pointed out that a definite distinction must be drawn between the hair-sac and the surrounding corium, and we see this is borne out by the development. The branched cells of the rudiment of the hair-sac soon make their way into the above solid cylindrical hair-rudiment, and thus give origin to the branched nucleated cells that we described as present in the adult state between the cells of the outer root sheath. The tissue of the hair-sac grows much more rapidly than the hair-rudiment, and having closed round the deep extremity of the latter, grows now against it as the papilla, and thus produces the inflection and enlargement of the bulb. Henceforth the multiplication of the cells at the bulb naturally leads to the new offsprings being pushed up in the axis of the hair-rudiment towards the surface, and becoming elongated constitute the elements of the hair-substance, its cuticle and inner root sheath ; the cells of the primary solid cylinder represent the rudiment of the cells of the outer root sheath only. The gradual conversion of the cells of the bulb into the spindle- shaped horny scales of the substance of the hair, the differentiation at the bulb of the cell-layers, and their conversion into the cuticle of the hair and the inner root sheath are easily understood from the description given above of these parts of the adult hair. 3 b 2