ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 192 alveoli somewhat larger and lined either partly with mucous cells, partly with granular cells, or altogether with mucous cells to which are applied from place to place groups of ‘ granular ’ cells. Such is the nature of the alveoli in the submaxillary and orbital gland of dog, and in the sublingual gland of man. c) In the mixed or muco-salivary glands, as in the human submaxillary gland and in that of the guinea pig, we find amongst lobules of true salivary gland smaller lobules of mucous gland, the structure of the alveoli of which is similar to that of the sub- maxillary gland of the dog, viz. a large lumen, lined with mucous cells, and outside these from place to place crescents of parietal cells. But even in one and the same lobule we may find the larger part composed of true salivary gland structure, while a small part is represented by mucous gland. More than that, in the submaxillary gland of man and guinea pig, we meet with alveoli of the structure of mucous gland de- scribed just now, directly continuous with alveoli that are smaller, have a smaller lumen, and are lined only with ‘granular' cells, that is, alveoli identical with true salivary gland-structure (Boll, Klein). Nussbaum maintained that by the aid of osmic acid it is possible to show that in the submaxillary gland of rabbit the cells lining the alveoli immediately adjoining the intermediary part of the duct, above described, possess a different character from the cells of other parts of the alveoli, and that the former are concerned in the secretion of the salivary ‘ ferment.’ Langley denies the correctness of both the morphological as well as the physiological part of this assertion. Bermann describes in the submaxillary gland of man, rabbit, dog, bat, &c., in connec- tion with a large branch of the ductus Whartonianius, a compound tubular mucous gland whose structure is altogether different from the rest of the gland. The alveoli of all salivary glands, like those of other glands, are surrounded by a dense network of capillary blood-vessels, and between them and the alveoli we find also lymph spaces and clefts surrounding the greater part of the circumference of the alveoli (Boll). The lymphatic vessels taking up these spaces lie in the interlobular septa, where they form a plexus. The nerve branches are composed of medullated nerve fibres, and form a plexus in the interlobular connective tissue. In connection with this plexus are larger or smaller ganglia; in some places they form spherical or oval enlargements, in others they are