STOMATA OF THE DIAPHRAGM. *73 The superficial or radiating straight lymphatic capillaries are in open communication with the peritoneal cavity through stomata (Oedmanson, v. Recklinghausen) ; the meshes of the fenestrated portion (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel) of the peritoneum mentioned above as bridging over those capillaries, and in man the holes of the subendothelial limiting membrane (Bizzozero and Salvioli), together with discontinuities in the endothe- lium of the surface and of the straight lymphatic capillaries, contribute to form those stomata. I have shown that the endothelial cells surrounding or rather lining them (stomata vera) are germinating cells. The deep or circular straight lymphatic capillaries, which, as has been mentioned above, are in open communication with the superficial or radiating ones, empty them- selves into the pleural lymphatics (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel), both the anterior and posterior system, so that they are able to discharge their contents in two directions at the same time (Klein), viz. towards the lymphatics constituting the anterior as well as towards those constituting the posterior system. The current passing through the lymphatics of the diaphragm is then : from the free peritoneal surface of the diaphragm, that is the peritoneal cavity, through the sto- mata vera into the superficial or radiating straight lymphatic capillaries, hence into the deep or circular straight ones : hence the current may pass in two directions, viz. (a) into the plexus of lymphatic vessels forming the anterior system, and (b) into that of the posterior system ; through the efferent trunks of the former the current passes a long and circuitous way (along the sternum) into a lymphatic gland, whereas through the efferent trunks of the latter it reaches in a short and unimpeded manner directly the thoracic duct. Hence the pleural lymphatics of the posterior system are easier filled and easier emptied than those of the anterior system (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel, Klein). The respiratory action of the diaphragm is the principal moving cause of the circu- lation in the lymphatics of the latter (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel) thus : during inspiration the straight lymphatics (both the superficial and deep ones) become distended owing to the descent of the central tendon and consequently the greater separation of its bundles from one another, while at the same time the pleural lymphatics become compressed; in this distended state of the superficial straight lymphatic capillaries the above stomata necessarily are wide open, and there exists therefore a tendency on the part of the straight lymphatic capillaries to absorb plasma, cells, or other formed matter that happens to be present on the peritoneal surface of the diaphragm. But at the same time, owing to the compression of the pleural lymphatics, these will discharge their contents into the efferent trunks. During expiration the straight lymphatics become com- pressed owing to the tendon bundles becoming again closer, the pleural lymphatics being E E