374 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Outside the dural sheath of the optic nerve exists the supravaginal lymph-space. The subdural space of the optic nerve communicates with the supravaginal space by the lymph-canalicular system of the dural sheath (Michel). The supravaginal space passes into the Tenonian lymph-space (Schwalbe), mentioned above as existing between the inner lamella of the Tenonian capsule fixed on the outer surface of the sclerotic and the outer lamella composed of the connective tissue surrounding the eyeball. The subdural lymph-space of the optic nerve (subvaginal space of Schwalbe) extends a short distance into the sclerotic between its outer and inner section, it is generally slightly larger than the subdural space and terminates with an attenuated margin (Jager, Michel). The sub-arachnoidal space of the sheath of the optic nerve anastomoses at the level of the lamina cribrosa with the lymph-spaces between the pial sheath and the nerve bundles (see p. ioo), by means of lymph-clefts (lymph-canalicular system) of the pial sheath (Schwalbe); the intrabulbar end of the subarachnoidal space of the optic nerve communicates with the perichorioidal lymph-space of Schwalbe, which, as has been mentioned on a former page, extends between the sclerotic and chorioidea and is permeated by a spongy mass of trabeculae, covered with endothelium and containing numerous networks of elastic fibrils. This communication between the two spaces is established by means of interfascicular lymph-clefts (lymph-canalicular system) passing in an oblique direction through the inner strata of the sclerotic (Michel). The perichorioidal lymph-space or lymph-spaces communicate with the Tenonian space by means of lymphatics invaginating the venous vessels passing from the chorioidea outwards (venae verticosae). The interfascicular lymph-spaces of the sclerotic communicate both with the perichorioidal and Tenonian lymph-space (Waldeyer). The anterior chamber of the eye does not seem to communicate directly, either with the perichorioidal or the Tenonian lymph-space, or with the lymphatic vessels of the conjunctiva. The communication is an indirect one, by means of the lymph spaces of the cornea, sclerotic, and ligamentum pectinatum. Injections into the anterior chamber pass also into the anterior ciliary veins (Schwalbe, Heisrath). According to the observations of Knies and Weiss, there exists a current passing from the anterior chamber of the eye through the interstitial cement-substance of the endothelium of the membrana Descemeti into the lymph-canalicular system of the cornea, or through the spaces of the ligamentum pectinatum into the sclerotic. But also in the posterior parts of the eyeball there exists a current from behind forward including the substance of the lens, according to Weiss only the external layers of its posterior half.