STRUCTURE OF RENAL TUBULES. 259 9. When entering the medullary ray in the cortex the ascending limb becomes nar- rower ; while ascending in the medullary ray it varies in thickness, in some places becom- ing again as thick as the preceding section of the boundary layer. The lumen is very small, and the epithelial cells are the more flattened the narrower the tube; but they retain the flattened or angular nucleus next the lumen, and they also show the rods, but distinctly only in the outer part, i.e. next the membrana propria. Just like the cells of the previous section, they appear in many places very angular and possessed of processes, and imbricated. 10. The irregular tubule is one of the most conspicuous sections ; it is situated amongst the convoluted tubules of all parts of the labyrinth, and has a very irregular and angular outline, in some places three and four times as thick as in others, and then of almost the same breadth as a convoluted tubule. But this greater thickness is due merely to a greater thickness of the lining epithelial cells, the lumen remaining everywhere a very narrow canal. The cells show in the profile-view exceedingly thick rods of a bright homogeneous aspect, more distinct than in any other section of the urinary tubule. The cells are very angular and in many places imbricated. But in this, as in the former cases, this imbrication is due to the irregular outline of the tube and the great variation in height of the adjacent cells. Each cell possesses an oval or angular nucleus next the lumen. 11. The intercalated section of Schweigger-Seidel, or the distal convoluted tubule, is situated wherever the proximal convoluted tubule is found, with which it is identical in all respects. 12 and 13. The curved part of the collecting tube and the next following straight section of the collecting tube, situated in the medullary ray, are thin tubes with a distinct lumen, lined by a single layer of homogeneous cells, each with a spherical or oval nucleus. The shape of these cells varies greatly, some being polyhedral, others spindle-shaped and flattened, and still others angular and possessed of short processes. 14. This section of the collecting tube belongs to the boundary layer ; it is broader than the preceding one, its lumen being larger and the lining epithelial cells more poly- hedral, although there are still some more or less flattened cells amongst them. Many of the cells are angular, being drawn out into short processes. Each cell possesses a homogeneous matrix, and in it a spherical or oval nucleus. In the human kidney the epithelial cells of this section of the collecting tube are short columnar, but otherwise similar to those described just now. With the exception of the descending limb of Henle’s loop (5) and the loop itself (6), there appears in all other sections of the urinary tubules of the cortex and boundary layer of the kidney of the dog a delicate membrane lining the inner surface of the R R