282 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. c. Capsule containing lymphatic vessels in transverse section, injected with Berlin blue. t. The tubules of the coni vasculosi cut in different directions ; the ciliated columnar epithelium lining them is just indicated. Between the tubes are the injected lymphatic vessels. Fig. III. From a section through the testis of the cat. Magnifying power about 250. s. Seminal tubules in section, the lining epithelium is not represented. b. Part of a large vein filled with blood corpuscles. c. A lamella of the interstitial connective-tissue seen from the surface ; it appears as a hyaline membrane—in reality, an endothelial membrane—to which are attached minute bundles of connective-tissue fibres. e. The same lamellae seen in profile ; owing to the low power the distinction into endothelial membrane and connective-tissue fibres is not visible. i. Intertubular or interstitial epithelial cells (see the text). j. The same seen from the surface. The spaces between the above lamellae and between these and the seminal tubes are lymph spaces, being the rootlets of the lymphatics of the testis. Figures IV.—IX. represent portions of the wall of seminal tubules of the testis of the dog. In each of the figures the whole thickness of the wall is shown, viz. from the membrana propria to the lumen of the tube. Magnifying power 450. m. Membrana propria of the tubule. d. The lining epithelium ; in this are to be distinguished the outer seminal cells next the membrana propria, then the inner seminal cells ; some of the former and all the latter show their nucleus and its intranuclear network of a nature that indicates division (compare fig. X., and see also the text of this chapter). Next the lumen are loosely connected small epithelial cells, derived by division from the inner seminal cells ; they are the daughter cells or spermatoblasts. Their nucleus contains a reticulum. e. Endothelial membrane belonging to the intertubular connective-tissue. Between this and the membrana propria is a lymph space. Fig. V. d. Seminal cells. 1. Spermatoblasts; these are the changed daughter cells next the lumen (see pre- ceding figure). 2. Earliest stage in the formation of the spermatozoa from the spermatoblasts. 3. Spermatozoa, somewhat further developed. Figures VI. VII. and VIII. show the further development of the spermatozoa; the peculiar grouping of them is well brought out.