ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 30 nuclei represented here belong to the endothelial plates of the upper or the lower surface. There are no other nuclei, i.e. no other cells, e.g. connective-tissue cells, except those of the endothelium of the surface. If a portion of the omentum as represented here is compared with a portion where the connective-tissue trabeculae are larger, and the holes, i.e. fenestrae, smaller and scarcer, it will be found that in addition to the endothelial cells of the two surfaces there are flattened connective-tissue corpuscles between the bundles of connective-tissue fibres. In those animals in which the omentum is fenestrated (see the previous chapter) in the adult condition, it is not, or only imperfectly so, in the young condition, being then a continuous membrane composed of a layer of connective-tissue bundles. It has been shown (Klein) that the fenestration is produced by cavities appearing between the connec- tive-tissue bundles, which cavities open through the interstitial cement-substance of the surface-endothelium. The connective-tissue corpuscles situated previously between the connective-tissue bundles are then used to cover the lateral surfaces that have now become free. So that a direct transition of connective-tissue corpuscles into endothelial cells of the surface is hereby established. Fig. II. Surface view of part of a lamella of cornea of kitten, prepared first with caustic potash, and then with nitrate of silver. The lamellae of connective-tissue bundles are separated from each other by the same semifluid albuminous cement which has been mentioned at the epithelium and endothelium, and in this albuminous substance are situated the flattened banched connective-tissue corpuscles, the so-called corneal corpuscles. When a cornea is prepared with nitrate of silver only, the spaces for these corpuscles are brought out as clear lacunae in a brown ground-substance, as represented in figures VI. and VII. The lacunae indicate the general shape of the corneal cor- puscles, and these latter being possessed of processes by means of which neighbouring cells anastomose, also the lacunae show a number of canals for those processes. The lacunae and canals form the lymph-canalicular system (v. Recklinghausen) of the cornea. The brown ground-substance is the albuminous interlamellar cement-substance. But in a cornea first prepared with caustic potash and then with silver (Strieker) the cells themselves become marked in the lymph-canalicular system by a red-brown granular matter. To each cell corresponds a large, clear, oval nucleus. As is seen in the figure, the cells lie in some places in close contact; we then find a dark line—cement-substance stained in silver—separating them, like those of ordinary endothelium. The fine canals of the lacunae are not well shown here. Fig. VI. is a surface view of part of a cornea of kitten prepared simply with nitrate of silver. The nuclei of the corneal corpuscles are indicated in the lacunae of the lymph-canalicular system. Fig. VII. is a surface view of part of a cornea of frog, prepared simply in nitrate