ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 402 In the cochleae of most mammals there exist three rows of outer hair cells, in the guinea-pig there are four in the upper turns; Waldeyer found four or even five rows in the human cochlea, and, according to Pritchard, in man and the ape there exist in about the middle height of the lamina spiralis five, and on the top even six rows of hair cells. Each of the outer hair cells possesses on its free surface a small bundle of fine stiff rodlike cilia (Middendorp, Deiters). Although carefully studied and described by Deiters, they have nevertheless become well understood only since Gottstein and Waldeyer, to whose researches may be added those of Lavdowsky and Nuel. Each hair cell is in reality only a part, the upper one, of a double cell, whose lower portion is the cell of Deiters, while the former is the hair cell proper or the cell of Corti. Nuel’s cellule acoustique descendant is comparable to the cell of Corti; his cellule acoustique ascendant to the cell of Deiters. Both are composed of granular protoplasm containing a clear nucleus, and they extend between the membrana basilaris and the lamina reticularis (see below). The hair cell proper or the cell of Corti sends a branched process, the basilar process of Gottstein, towards the membrana basilaris, while from its free surface a number of cilia like hairs pass through a special hole, the ring, of the lamina reticularis (see below). According to Nuel there are generally ten to twelve hairs to each cell, arranged in the form of a horseshoe, the opening of this being directed inwards. The cell of Deiters or the lower part of the double cell is more or less spindle- shaped and possesses a long homogeneous process which runs up to the lamina reticularis, with which it is intimately connected : this is the phalangeal process of Gottstein. According to Nuel the cells of Corti of each row are fused together in their middle part, i.e. in the region of their nucleus. The hair cell proper and the cell of Deiters of the same double cell are intimately connected with one another (Gottstein). In the guinea-pig the two cells of the double cell are distinct from one another; the one, viz. the hair cell proper, being conical and possessed of a long (basilar) process, while the other is spindle-shaped. The outer hair cells generally decrease in length further away from the arch of Corti, but in the guinea-pig the reverse is the case, owing to the peculiar position of the head-plate of the outer pillar and of the lamina reticularis (v. Winiwarter). Then follows the arch of Corti, composed of the outer and inner1 pillar or rod, each in a single row. The arch of Corti forms, as it were, the centre of the organ of Corti; it 1 The terms * outer ’ and ‘ inner ’ are used invariably with reference to the modiolus, in the same way as was the case above with the sulcus spiralis ‘ extemus ’ and the ‘ inner ’ vestibular angle of the cochlear canal,