ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 58 fibrous tissue; in others the bundles are arranged in two or more layers. Between the groups of bundles, viz. in the interfascicular spaces, we meet with the ordinary flat- tened connective-tissue corpuscles. A limited number of capillary blood-vessels sup- ply this fibrous layer, b) The internal layer, or osteogenetic layer, contains a plexus of more or less slender bundles of connective-tissue fibrils ; embedded in it are numerous capillary blood-vessels and a great many cells, each of which possesses a round or oval nucleus. The cells vary in shape, being either spherical, oval, spindle-shaped, or branched. They occupy the meshes between the fibre-bundles. In some places the plexus of these is very regular, and their meshes are completely filled with the cells. In growing bone we find a network of (young) bone lamellae, terminating in the shape of pointed trabeculae within the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum ; these young bone lamellae are in many places covered with an epitheloid layer of those cells, called osteoblasts (Gegenbaur). The osteoblasts are concerned in the formation of these young bone lamellae, as will be described minutely below. The marrow contained in the cavities of bone is of a twofold nature, yellow and red. Both possess a rich supply of blood-vessels (arteries, veins, and capillaries), of which even the largest branches are notable for their exceedingly thin wall. The yellow marrow filling the central cavity of long bones is chiefly composed of fat cells, and hence its yellow appearance ; between these are membranes of flattened connective- tissue cells, and various numbers of polyhedral, spherical, or oval cells, each with one or two nuclei. These latter represent the marrow-cells proper; they resemble lymph corpuscles as regards size and aspect. Red marrow is the vascular substance filling the meshes of spongy bone; it contains only few fat cells, and is chiefly made up of marrow cells. Amongst these there are in many localities, as in ribs, bodies of vertebrae, ex- tremities of diaphysis of long bones, peculiar cells, each of which is slightly larger than a coloured blood-corpuscle, and whose substance is of a uniform yellowish-green tint, like that of a coloured blood-corpuscle. They contain, in addition, a nucleus. They are supposed to be transitional forms between marrow-cells and coloured blood- corpuscles (Neumann, Bizzozero). If this be the case, the marrow of spongy bone has the important function of the formation of coloured blood-corpuscles. That the marrow of bones, especially the red marrow, has an intimate relation to the lymphatic glands is made probable by the fact that the former is found frequently diseased with the latter. Conspicuous amongst the marrow cells, especially in red marrow, are the multinu- clear giant cells (myeloplaxes, Robin) ; their function and their relation to bone and cartilage will be mentioned below in connection with the development of bone. All these cells show amoeboid movement when examined under suitable conditions.