239 BLOOD-VESSELS OF LARYNX. With the appearance of the mucous glands, or soon after, the epithelium and the mucosa resume again their former characters. The distribution of the blood-vessels in the larynx does not differ from the general plan of their distribution in other mucous membranes, viz. the larger branches of arteries and veins belong to the submucous tissue, while the mucosa contains their ultimate ramifications, viz. the network of capillaries. These extend horizontally underneath the surface epithelium, except where this latter is stratified pavement epithelium (epiglottis, vocal cords); in this case the mucosa is possessed of papillae, into each of which extends a loop of the capillaries. The mucous glands and lymphatic follicles possess of course their own afferent and efferent blood-vessels and capillary networks. The lymphatics are very numerous. Generally we find a network of minute lym- phatic tubes in the mucosa, leading into a network of larger tubes with valves, and situated in the submucous tissue. The most numerous and dense, and at the same time largest, lymphatics are found in the anterior membrane of the epiglottis, in the false vocal cords, in the ary-epiglottic folds, and in the ventriculus Morgagni. The nerve branches found in the submucous tissue are large bundles of medullated fibres ; isolated medullated and non-medullated fibres may be met with in the mucosa, where they are connected in a fine plexus. These fibres possess a thick laminated nucleated sheath (Boldyrew). According to Luschka, and also Boldyrew, the nerve fibres terminate in the mucosa in the form of end-bulbs. On the posterior surface of the epiglottis we meet with taste goblets amongst the stratified epithelium (Verson, Schofield, Davis); their number increases towards the basis, and they are in some instances (dog, Schofield) arranged in rows, and may be met with also occasionally on the ary-epiglottic folds and the mucous membrane of the inner surface of the arytenoid cartilage, as well as on the true vocal cord (Davis). 2. The Trachea. The structure of the mucous membrane of the trachea is very similar to that of the larynx. The different layers described of the latter are continued into the former. a) The epithelium is stratified columnar, the superficial cells being ciliated ; its minute structure is identical with that of the larynx. b) Underneath the epithelium is a homogeneous-looking basement membrane; this membrane is very conspicuous in the human trachea on account of its thickness. It is permeated by thicker and thinner canals connecting the lymph-canalicular system of the mucosa with the intercellular substance of the epithelium. Occasionally o o