280 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. tissue of the prostate ; in the membranous portion of the urethra the muscular coat is also pre-eminently longitudinal, and its bundles pass into the mucous membrane itself, where they run in a longitudinal direction between the large venous vessels connected here into a network. These large veins empty themselves into smaller veins situated in the tissue outside the muscular coat. The plexus of large veins of the mucous membrane, with its muscular bundles just mentioned, represents the rudiment of a corpus cavernosum (Henle). In the pars cavernosa the muscular bundles are separated from one another by the venous sinuses or cavernae, and they form an essential part of the cavernous tissue. Besides the lacunae Morgagni, the mucous membrane possesses small simple mucous gland tubes lined with columnar epithelium (follicules of Robin and Cadiat), and longer branched mucous gland tubes, Littre’s glands. The epithelium of the surface penetrates into the mouth of their ducts. Each gland of Cowper resembles in structure the sublingual gland, being a large com- pound tubular mucous gland (see Chapter XXV.). The chief duct possesses a thick coat, rich in longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscle cells. Its epithelium, as well as that of the large: and small branches, is composed of columnar cells, longer in the larger branches than in the smaller ones. In the gland tubes proper, or alveoli, the lumen is relatively large, and lined with columnar ‘ mucous ’ cells, whose outer thin portions are imbricated (Langerhans) in the same way as those described of the sub- maxillary gland of dog (see Chapter XXIV.). The substance of the cells is a beautiful reticulum (Langerhans); the nucleus is compressed and situated next the membrana propria. Corpora Cavernosa. Each corpus cavernosum is surrounded by dense tendinous connective-tissue, the albuginea, which also contains unstriped muscle cells; around this is loose connective- tissue containing fat cells, a plexus of nerve branches, and Pacinian corpuscles. The matrix of the corpus cavernosum consists principally of unstriped muscle tissue, to which is added a limited amount of fibrous connective-tissue and elastic fibrils. The bundles of unstriped muscle tissue form thicker or thinner septa and trabeculae connected into a plexus. These masses surround and separate the huge venous vessels, the sinuses or cavernae, anastomosing into a dense plexus. Each of these vessels is lined with a single layer of flattened endothelial plates. The arterial branches, ensheathed in the muscular trabeculae of the matrix of the corpus cavernosum, break up into a rich net- work of capillaries, also situated in the matrix. These capillaries discharge their blood in two directions : (a) into the above sinuses or cavernae (Langer) ; and (b) directly into the efferent venous branches. The arteriae helicinae of H. Muller, which formerly