149 GANGLIA OF THE HEART minute ganglia; they vary in size and bear the same relation to the nerve branches as the microscopic sympathetic ganglia described in Chapter XVII. B., being smaller or larger spherical, spindle-shaped or irregular groups or chains of ganglion cells. The ganglia are very conspicuous in the nerve plexus of the septum auriculorum of the heart of frog (Ludwig, Bidder, and others), also in the septum between auricle and ventricle of the same animal (Dogiel). The ganglion cells in the frog’s heart are, according to Beale, possessed of a ‘spiral fibre,’ but this is denied by Dogiel. In man and mammals ganglia are present in connection with the subpericardial nerve branches (Schklarevski, Dogiel). According to Dogiel they lie chiefly at the point where the large veins enter the heart, and at the boundary between the auricles and the ventricles. There are no ganglia in other parts of the heart of man and mammals, as maintained by Remak and others. The ganglion cells are of various sizes ; most of them are possessed of one process only, which is an axis-cylinder process. Their structure and relation to nerve fibres is the same as that described of the sympathetic ganglion cells of man and mammals in Chapter XVII. B. PLATE XXVI. Figs. I. IV. V. VIII. and IX. are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350 ; the rest under one of about 250. Fig. I. Part of a transverse section through the ascending aorta of pig. The figure represents about the inner fourth of the whole thickness of the wall. a. Lining endothelium ; the nuclei of its cells are shown only. b. Subendothelial layer of connective tissue, showing in a homogeneous matrix oval nuclei of connective-tissue corpuscles and numerous dots, being longitudinal con- nective-tissue fibres viewed in transverse section. c. and d. represent the inner coat proper or intima, composed of elastic tissue ; at c. most of its fibrils run circularly ; at d. the substance is represented homogeneous, with only few elastic fibrils (dots) in transverse section, but there is in reality a dense net- work of such fibrils. e. Inner portion of the middle coat or media. It contains in a matrix of very fine elastic fibrils, represented here as a homogeneous purple ground-substance, thick bright cylindrical elastic fibres, which, being arranged longitudinally, are here seen in trans- verse section; in some places they are more or less coalescing, so as to form mem- branous structures; besides the elastic fibres are unstriped muscle cells, which, being placed more or less longitudinally, are represented here transversely or obliquely. f. Beginning with this part the thick elastic fibres of the previous layer form by