STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. H7 of connective-tissue cells of the subcutaneous tissue of new-born animals (Schafer), which by vacuolation are being transformed into capillary vessels. In those young vessels that are destined to be arterial or venous branches, the original endothelial wall is gradually thickened by cells of the surrounding tissue ; these give origin to the elastic, muscular, and connective-tissue elements. 5. The H EART. (a) The outer covering of the heart is a serous membrane (the visceral peri- cardium), which, like the other serous membranes, is covered on its free surface with an endothelium. The membrane itself is a dense connective-tissue membrane, containing networks of elastic fibres arranged parallel to the surface. In the deeper or subserous part the connective tissue is looser and contains the large vascular and nervous branches, and in many instances larger or smaller groups of fat cells. This con- nective-tissue forms a continuity with the intermuscular connective tissue, that is, the perimysium separating the bundles of muscle fibres of the substance of the heart itself. (b) The substance proper of the heart is composed of muscle-bundles, the elements of which are striated muscle fibres forming a network and possessing a peculiar struc- ture, described and figured on a former occasion (Chapter XI. pp. 78 and 79). The bundles are separated by a vascular connective tissue of the nature of ordinary inter- muscular connective tissue. In the ventricles they form more or less distinct lamellae. The connective tissue separating these lamellae includes oblong clefts (Henle), which possess a complete endothelial lining (Schweigger-Seidel), and are therefore to be regarded as belonging to the lymphatic system. (c) The inner or lining membrane, the endocardium, is covered with a single layer of endothelium, which, as has been mentioned in Chapter III., is occasionally in young hearts, in some places, as mitral valves, chordae tendineae, and papillary muscles, com- posed of germinating cells. Next the endothelium is a delicate membrane, consisting of an inner subendothelial network of flat branched cells, and an outer dense network of elastic fibrils ; next this follows the chief layer, viz. a connective-tissue membrane, composed of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, arranged as small trabeculae, running in different directions and crossing each other under various angles ; between them lie the ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles in the interfascicular lymph spaces, and also numerous networks of elastic fibres. The deep parts are made up of connective-tissue bundles, which further on pass as