INDIRECT DIVISION OF NUCLEI 441 epithelial cells, and being very large afford a good opportunity for observing their structure and changes during the karyokinesis. The nucleus of the epithelial cells of the superficial layer is more or less oval, is limited by a distinct membrane, and contains amongst a mass of minute fibrils, which are convoluted and connected into a network, several larger irregular or spherical or oval or curved corpuscles, which always stain much readier in dyes than the other fibrils and are much coarser ; they are intimately connected with the latter and appear generally merely as thickenings of them. They correspond to the nucleoli. The cell substance is a mass of minute fibrils, either much convoluted and loop- like, or connected into a reticulum. They stand in a direct connection with the fine fibrils of the nucleus, with which they are identical in appearance and arrangement. Both in the intracellular and intranuclear fibrils are seen minute bright dots, they are merely fibrils seen endwise, i.e. in optical section. The nucleus of the cells of the deep layer is a little, larger than the former, and similar in structure except that many of them possess no nucleoli. Such a nucleus will be spoken of as a ripe resting nucleus. The first step towards the karyokinesis consists in the disappearance of the nuclear membrane, in the greater distinctness and thickness of the intranuclear fibrils ; they at the same time stain more readily in dyes. The fibrils become more separated from one another, hence they are more distinct and the nucleus as a whole is larger. Of nucleoli there is generally nothing to be seen. Owing to these facts, the convoluted nature of the intranuclear fibrils is now much more distinct than previously in the resting nucleus, but it existed already in the latter, as mentioned above. But there is now much less of an anastomosis i.e. of a network of the fibrils noticeable. This phase is the phase of the ‘convolution ’par excellence. The fibrils may be uniformly distributed or they may have a more or less transverse arrangement, especially in the peripheral part of the nucleus. And if in this case the latter is of an oblong shape, it obtains a peculiar ribbed appearance. In the next phase the fibrils become thicker and more separated from one another, i.e. more loosely aggregated, so that this makes the nucleus still larger. The fibrils are still much convoluted, but there is already a distinct indication of their forming long loops, whose individual members are very wavy and coiled. Some of the fibrils are not of a uniform thickness and appearance, but at some places appear as if there were two thinner fibrils running closely side by side, or as if a thick fibril were hollowed out, i.e. tubular. These will be spoken of as the ‘ double threads ’ observed by Flemming in this and later phases, and considered by him as due to a longitudinal division of the