ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 336 Approaching the posterior edge of the free margin, but before reaching it, we meet with the mouths of the Meibomian glands. These are closely placed side by side in a single row, and each of them possesses a straight duct which is embedded in the tarsal plate, in the direction of the short diameter of this latter and parallel with the con- junctival surface of the lid. It takes up on all sides of its circumference shorter or longer saccular, flask-shaped, or pear-shaped single or branched alveoli. But the whole gland does not extend into the distal portion of the tarsal plate (see below). As regards structure the duct and alveoli completely resemble a sebaceous gland, as described in the preceding chapter. The stratified epithelium of the duct is identical with the stratum Malpighii of the surface, i.e. the lid margin; the marginal layer of small polyhedral cells, each with a spherical or slightly flattened nucleus, the central large polyhedral cells filled with fat globules and each containing a spherical nucleus, the remnants of these cells in the narrow neck of the alveoli opening into the duct, all these relations are the same in the alveoli of the Meibomian gland and in those of an ordinary sebaceous gland. When prepared with spirit and oil of cloves the intracellular honeycombed reticulum of the gland cells of the alveoli, whose meshes contain the above fat globules, is brought out in both cases with great distinctness. According to most observers the alveoli possess a membrana propria, but Waldeyer questions this ; Colosanti describes also unstriped muscle cells forming as it were a capsule round the alveoli. As the posterior edge of the lid margin is reached the stratum Malpighii becomes thickened and also the papillae undergo a corresponding lengthening. Passing this edge we arrive at the conjunctiva palpebrae, a delicate vascular mucous membrane covered with a thin stratified epithelium, which, although modified in its constitution, is nevertheless a continuation of the stratum Malpighii. In most places we find it con- sisting of one or two layers of small polyhedral cells, on the top of which is a layer of longer or shorter columnar or conical cells (Klein, Waldeyer, Reich). Some of them are often found as mucous-secreting goblet cells (Stieda, Waldeyer). On the distal portion of the conjunctiva palpebrae, i.e. next the fornix conjunctivae, the mucous membrane with its covering epithelium is placed into regular folds anastomos- ing with one another, hence in a vertical section through this part there appear small depressions of the surface which look like glandular inflections (Henle), but in reality are merely the furrows between those folds (Stieda, Waldeyer). The epithelium covering these folds differs from that covering the proximal part of the conjunctiva palpebrae, i.e. the one next the lid margin, inasmuch as in the former its superficial layer is composed of beautiful columnar cells (Waldeyer).