ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 300 The muscular coat consists of an inner longitudinal and an outer circular stratum of unstriped muscular cells. To this latter are added a circular and in some places also a longitudinal layer of striped muscular fibres. The Nympile, Clitoris, and Vestibulum. All these parts are covered with a thick stratified pavement epithelium of the ordinary description. The mucous membrane underneath is a dense connective-tissue membrane, containing also elastic fibrils, and projecting into the epithelium as smaller or larger conical or cylindrical papillae containing loops of capillaries. The mucous membrane of the nymphae contains sebaceous glands conspicuous by their size, but no hairs. There is a superficial and a deep network of capillary blood-vessels in the mucous membrane of the nymphae, permeating a plexus of large veins, whose supporting tissue contains bundles of unstriped muscular cells, and hence this portion corresponds in structure to cavernous tissue (Gussenbaur). The corpora cavernosa clitoridis and the bulbi vestibuli coincide in structure to the cavernous bodies described of the analogous parts of the male (Gussenbaur). The genital end-bulbs and Pacinian corpuscles of the clitoris have been described in a former chapter. The glands of Bartholin are analogous to the glands of Cowper in the male. They are huge compound tubular mucous glands (see a former chapter). The connective-tissue separating the lobules contains unstriped muscular tissue. The alveoli or gland tubes are lined with a single layer of columnar mucous cells, imbricated with their outer pointed extremity (Langerhans). The ducts are lined with shorter or longer columnar epithelial cells. The chief duct possesses a special wall of connective-tissue and unstriped muscular cells. The stratified epithelium of the vestibu- lum is continued a short distance into the mouth of the chief duct. \ The Mammary Gland. As in other glands, so also here we distinguish the framework from the parenchyma; the former is lamellar connective-tissue, subdividing the latter into the lobules and containing a small amount of elastic fibres ; in some cases, as in the rabbit, guinea pig, cow (Winkler, Kolessnikow), there are also small bundles of unstriped muscular cells to be met with. From the interlobular septa minute bundles of connective-tissue may be traced between the gland-alveoli. These bundles are well seen in the marginal parts of a lobule; in the centre of this latter the alveoli are separated from one another