77 STRUCTURE OF STRIPED MUSCLE FIBRES. however, present a homogeneous aspect when thus viewed endways, but appear granular, this being probably merely the expression of minute longitudinal fibrils (Kolliker). The transverse section of a muscle fibre, after hardening, shows the sarcous elements (Cohnheim’s fields), or primitive fibrils, very often greatly shrunk, and therefore like small dots, the interstitial substance of course appearing greatly increased accordingly. Besides the structural differences described hitherto, there are other minute elements entering the constitution of a muscle fibre : these can be perceived already in the fresh and living state, but better after certain reagents. These structures are : (a) a hyaline sheath, the sarcolemma : this is a transparent structureless elastic sheath of great resist- ance ; it surrounds the contents of the muscle fibre like a cuticle. (b) In connexion with the sarcolemma are transverse fine membranous septa, stretching right across the muscle fibre at regular intervals : these septa are the membranes of Krause; they are homogeneous, elastic, but show less resistance (Engelmann) than the sarcolemma with which they are intimately connected. By these transverse septa the muscle fibre is divided into numerous equal-sized cylindrical compartments, muscle-compartments of Krause, each of which possesses the breadth of the whole muscular fibre. Each com- partment contains one dim contractile disc, mentioned above. Now, the membranes of Krause are so placed that each of them passes right across the middle of an interstitial disc from one side of the muscle fibre to the other; hence each interstitial disc is divided into two halves, the lateral discs, each of these belonging to different (adjacent) com- partments. We may then summarise the structure of a striped muscle fibre thus : 1) The framework. This consists of: (a) Sarcolemma ; and (b) Krause's membranes ; hereby the fibre is divided into muscle compartments. 2) The muscle-substance : (a) each muscle compartment contains one broad dim con- tractile disc, highly refractive, composed of prismatic rods, sarcous elements ; if) a narrow transparent lateral disc placed at each end of the contractile disc, and consequently at the side of Krause’s membrane. According to Hensen and Engelmann, a transparent transverse thin ‘median disc’ divides the contractile disc into two; but this appearance is found only under exceptional conditions (see below). In some muscle fibres, especially in some fibres of insect muscle, we find each lateral disc containing, in the transverse diameter, a row of bright granules, so placed that each granule corresponds to the end of a sarcous element. But they are not of constant occurrence, being often absent (Krause). According to Schafer, who regards them as constant features, they are the knoblike ends of thin rodlike elastic elements which constitute the dim disc. These granules form the ‘granular layer’ of Flogel. In some muscle fibres this