CONNECTIVE-TISSUE OF TESTIS. 269 composed of endotheloid plates (connective-tissue corpuscles), each with a clear, oval flattened nucleus ; and (b) a small amount of fibrous connective-tissue, arranged as a plexus of fine bundles, or fenestrated membrane. The endothelial membrane covering this plexus is not a continuous membrane, but perforated by numerous holes which, coinciding with the fenestrations of the plexus of fibre bundles, forms the means of communication between neighbouring interlamellar spaces. These spaces are lymph spaces, and they are the rootlets of the lymphatic system of the testis (Ludwig and Tomsa), the above-mentioned endothelial membrane being a one-sided endothelial lining of the spaces ; its presence has been known to Frey, Tommasi, Kolliker, v. La Valette St. George, and others. The number of lamellae present between the seminal tubes varies greatly in the testis of different animals, and in different parts of the same testis; in some animals (cat, dog) it is very considerable, in others only indicated (rat, mouse). The relation between the lamellae and the seminal tubes is a very intimate one, but depends in a great measure on the amount and distribution of the fluid present in the interlamellar lymph spaces. For it is clear that if the interlamellar spaces, midway between two con- tiguous tubules, be distended, while those next the tubes are collapsed, the appearance will be produced as if the lamellae next the tubes were part of the limiting membrane of the latter (Henle, Frey, Hessling, Kolliker, and others) ; but their separate and inde- pendent nature is easily recognised in places where the interlamellar spaces next the membrana propria of the seminal tubes are distended. It is then ascertained that the former, viz. the membrana propria, is a single homogeneous membrane, separated by a lymph space from the lamella next to it. The oval nuclei, present in the membrana propria (see below), are not to be confounded with those of the endothelial cells outside. In the rat there exists only a very small amount of this intertubular connective tissue, and in many parts the seminal tubules are separated from each other by an open lymph space ; in this case the membrana propria is covered with a continuous layer of beautiful endothelial plates. Between the lamellae of the intertubular connective-tissue are found groups of peculiar cells, arranged as longer or shorter, thicker or thinner, cylindrical, plate-like, or irregularly shaped, anastomosing masses. They are known since Kolliker, and have been considered by this observer as indifferent cells of the connective-tissue. Sub- sequent observers, especially Henle and Leydig, gave their attention to these cells ; Waldeyer and Mihalkovics regard them in the same light, and consider them as the interstitial or parenchymatous connective-tissue cells. R. Harvey thinks these cells are ganglion cells. I have described them as epithelial cells, being derived from the epithelial columns of the Wolffian body, and corresponding to similar cells found in the ovary (see below). I consider them as intertubular, or interstitial, epithelial cells.