ABSORPTION OF CARTILAGE AND BONE. 67 we find that this is also supported by multinuclear giant cells ; they may be then appropriately called Chondroclasts. The solution and absorption of calcified cartilage and osseous substance cannot be explained merely by the action of the blood-vessels of the marrow, for the simple reason that the insoluble lime-salts of those tissues cannot be dissolved by the alkaline plasma exuded from the blood- vessels. To convert those salts into soluble matter requires an acid which, in all probability, is formed in loco ; and it is equally probable that the osteo- and chondroclasts are the means by which it is produced. As a matter of fact, these giant cells comport themselves in microche- mical respects as if of acid reaction. But not all multinuclear giant cells, found at the different places where absorption of calcified cartilage or of osseous substance occurs, are merely destructive agents ; for there are other places where they can be shown to be concerned in the formation of osseous substance, just like the ordinary uni-nuclear osteoblasts. And the multinuclear giant cells are indeed only derived from osteoblasts, some of them having undergone an exceptional increase in size, and their nucleus a repeated division. The giant cells connected with absorption are generally on one side of a more or less opaque appearance, and transversely striated ; with this part they are closely applied to the surface that is to be absorbed. PLATE XII. Figs. I. and IV. drawn under a magnifying power of about 45 ; fig. II. under one of about 180 ; and fig. III. of 90. Fig. I. Transverse section of shaft of tibia of foetal kitten. The section had been stained first in carmine and then in haematoxylin. All bone represented in this and the following two plates had been first macerated in chromic acid ro deprive it of its inor- ganic salts. а) Periosteum, showing the outer fibrous and inner osteogenetic layer. б) Foetal spongy bone, produced by the periosteum. The osseous substance is of a pink colour, and contains numerous bone corpuscles, of which only the nuclei are here shown. The trabeculae next the osteogenetic layer are the most recently formed, they are covered with a regular epitheloid layer of osteoblasts. The cavities of the spongy bone, the Haversian spaces, contain a vascular and cellular tissue, which on the one hand passes into the marrow of the central cavity, and on the other is continuous with the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. c) The central or marrow cavity containing blood-vessels filled with blood, and numerous marrow cells. In it are still left the (unabsorbed) remains of the endochondral