THE FIBRES OF MULLER. 37r more or less polygonal fields of various sizes, and thus resemble an endothelium (W. Norris and Shakespeare), without however being one. Each fibre of Muller possesses at its inner extremity, and while passing through the nervous layer, a pyramidal enlargement, which becomes attenuated in the layer of the ganglion cells. As mentioned previously, it passes through all the other layers in a radiating manner and terminates at the limitans externa. In the inner nuclear layer each Muller’s fibre is possessed of a nucleus, as described above, and this forms the boundary between what is regarded as the inner and outer portion, the former belonging to the layer of nerve fibres, ganglion cells, and the inner granular layer, while the latter extends through the rest of the retina to the limitans externa. According to the digestion-experiments of Kuhnt, the two portions are chemically different from one another. The nucleus belonging to the Muller’s fibre in the inner nuclear layer appears in some instances as if applied to the surface only of the fibre, that is, as if it belonged to a cell fixed on the fibre. This condition may be observed, not only on the radial fibres of the frog's retina (Manz, Schwalbe), but also in that of mammals and man. In the layer of the nerve fibres and ganglion cells, but especially in the former, each pyramidal enlargement gives off laterally membranous, homogeneous structures, as weli as fibrils; by these they anastomose with one another and with the honeycombed matrix of those layers. The substance of the radial fibres is longitudinally striated and each contains in the pyramidal extremity an oval clear nucleus. The connection of the radial fibres of Muller with the matrix of the reticulum in the inner and outer granular layer, and with the honeycombed stroma of the inner and outer nuclear layer has been mentioned above. it. The Macula Lutea and Fovea Centralis. This part of the retina of man and apes owes its yellow colour to the presence of a diffuse yellow pigment present only between the elements of the retina (M. Schultze). The difference between the layers of the macula lutea and of the surrounding portions of the retina have been mentioned already above, viz. the absence of rods and of a continuous nerve-fibre layer, the presence of several layers of ganglion cells, and the great length and curved or oblique direction (Bergmann) of the cone-fibres in the macula lutea. As has been mentioned above, there being no rods here, the nuclei are wanting in the inner part of the outer nuclear layer, and this is entirely occupied by the inner portions of the cone-fibres, thus forming Henle’s outer fibrous layer. The cones of the macula lutea are thinner than in the surrounding parts, and, when 3 h