COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES OF BLOOD. 3 Fig. II. Another colourless corpuscle of human blood while performing amoeboid movements. The corpuscle is seen to push out processes of various length and thickness, and thus to alter its shape in a considerable manner; in the last example of the lower row the corpuscle has almost separated into two lumps, united by a thin bridge. Fig. III. A ‘granular’ corpuscle of newt’s blood in three stages of amoeboid move- ment while observed on the warm stage. Fig. IV. Another granular corpuscle of the same blood in seven different stages of movement. The corpuscle showed not only rapid change of shape—there are several between each two here delineated—but moved very conspicuously along the field of the microscope. In the ‘granular’ corpuscles we generally observe that the bright granules are not dis- tributed uniformly throughout the protoplasm, but are collected in one or more groups. This is entirely due to the presence of large pale transparent nuclei in these corpuscles. The pale part in the corpuscles, represented in fig. IV., includes the nuclei but no granules. When watching the movements of a ‘ granular ’ corpuscle we often notice a flowing move- ment of the granules : this is entirely a passive movement ; the protoplasm itself moves, and the granules embedded in it are carried to and fro. These ‘ granular ’ corpuscles are few in numbers as compared with the other pale or ordinary colourless corpuscles, and they move much quicker. The greater number of colourless corpuscles are pale, indistinctly granular (see above) ; they move generally by throwing out finer or thicker, longer or shorter filamentous processes. One of the most interesting forms of movement that may be observed in ‘ granular ’ as well as ordinary colourless corpuscles on the warm stage is this : the protoplasm of the corpuscle has collected into two—sometimes even three—lumps, connected by a thin bridge of the same substance. Each of these lumps alters its shape and place indepen- dently of the other. Now, either of two things may happen : (a) the two lumps'move away into opposite directions, and by doing so they go on lengthening—at the expense of their own substance—the connecting bridge, until this breaks, and each lump, with- drawing its part of the bridge, continues to move like an independent individual (Klein); (<5) or the mass of one lump—after a longer or shorter interval—flows again back into the other. If the two lumps are of unequal size, the larger one in its change of place is capable of dragging the smaller one, except this latter is fixed to the cover glass, or is jammed in between groups of blood-corpuscles : in this case the connecting bridge is drawn out to great fineness. There is another mode of division of a colourless corpuscle into two ; it is by a con- striction appearing on the surface of the corpuscle, which after many changes ultimately B 2