342 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XXXV. THE CORNEA AND SCLEROTIC. The cornea consists of the anterior epithelium, the anterior elastic or Bowman’s membrane, the substantia propria, the posterior elastic membrane or membrana Descemeti, and the endothelium lining the posterior surface. i) The anterior epithelium is a stratified pavement epithelium of a similar nature as that of other regions : viz. the deepest layer is composed of columnar cells, each with an oval nucleus; then follow two or three layers of polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus, they and their nucleus become flattened towards the surface ; finally there are two or three superficial layers of scales, each with a discoid nucleus, more or less oval in outline. The cells of the deepest layer are of different heights, club-shaped, cylindrical, pear-shaped ; the deep extremity by which they are fixed on the subjacent tissue is flattened and plate-like, the foot-plate of Lott and Rollett. But neither in this, nor in the fact that many of the polyhedral cells of the middle layers possess instead of smooth surfaces one, two, or three pitlike depressions to receive the convex surfaces of their neighbours (Kolliker, Cleland), does the epithelium of the cornea differ from other stratified epithelium. The cells both of the deepest and middle layers are in most instances prickle cells. The nucleus of the deepest cells contains a delicate regular reticulum, without any nucleoli, that of the cells of the middle layers a less uniform reticulum and often one or more thickenings in it, nucleoli. The very same changes of the intranuclear network that we described in Chapter XXXIII. leading to the division of some of the nuclei of the deepest cells are also here to be noticed, and have been observed in the normal and inflamed state by Mayzel and Eberth. They will be referred to in detail in a future chapter. The division of the cells takes place chiefly in the deepest layer (Lott), and as in other places the next following layer of polyhedral cells owes to this its origin. But that in this process of division some of the deepest cells divide into a nucleated polyhedral top-cell and a deep mass of protoplasm which at first is without any nucleus but in which afterwards a nucleus is formed de novo, as maintained by Lott, Krause and others, is most decidedly erroneous, and I fully agree with Flemming on this point, viz.