238 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. stratified columnar ciliated epithelium of the same nature as that described and figured in Chapter II. figs. I. and II. of Plate III. (See also the occurrence of goblet cells in con- nection with mucous secretion.) The superficial part of the mucous membrane, or the mucosa, is of a tolerably dense texture ; it is a meshwork of delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, which in many places contains more or less dense adenoid tissue ; this latter tissue occurs chiefly underneath the epithelium (Luschka, Verson, Heitler), and contains the ultimate ramifications of the blood-vessels, that is a network of capillaries. It occurs either as diffuse adenoid tissue or as lymph follicles (Verson, Boldyrew, Coyne). Between the epithelium and the mucosa is a distinct basement membrane (see below) ; this is always thickest in the deeper parts of the larynx, e.g. over the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. In these same parts, viz. over the thyroid and cricoid cartilage, the mucosa is separated from the next layer or the submucous tissue by a special layer containing net- works of longitudinal thick elastic fibres. The deeper or submucous part, like the epiglottis, contains numerous mucous glands, and groups of fat cells, besides larger vessels and nerve branches. The mucous glands are, comparatively speaking, large, compound tubular, and form in many places a continuous layer. Their ducts open with wide mouths on the free surface and are occasionally lined with ciliated epithelium (Verson). The largest mucous glands are found in those parts where the mucous membrane is loose and easily folded, e.g. in the false vocal cords. The epithelium lining the lower part of the false vocal cord and the ventriculus Morgagni, except the part next the margin of the true vocal cord, is stratified columnar (ciliated), the mucous membrane is loose in texture and easily folded ; it contains numerous mucous glands, and around and between them adenoid tissue either as diffuse masses or in the shape of definite lymph follicles (Luschka, Verson, Boldyrew, Heitler). Passing from the ventricle on to the true vocal cord the columnar epithelium becomes changed into stratified pavement epithelium ; this is thinnest just at the very margin ; immediately below this the epithelium becomes again a little thicker, and re- mains stratified pavement epithelium for some distance below. This varies in different cases. The mucosa is without glands and is a dense tissue chiefly containing networks of elastic fibrils and projecting into the epithelium in the form of beautiful regular papillae. Between the epithelium and mucosa is a conspicuous basement membrane. A short distance below the margin of the vocal cord the mucous glands reappear in a loose submucous tissue; at first they are small and isolated, but soon become larger and closer.