237 STRUCTRUE OF EPIGLOTTIS. surface, and in its superficial parts contains vascular adenoid tissue either diffuse or as distinct lymph follicles (Klein, Haidar Kiamil) ; (c) the deep or submucous part is less dense in texture and contains many groups of fat cells and small mucous glands. (In carnivorous animals these latter are few and almost single tubes, wavy and convoluted). They are more numerous than in the anterior membrane and form almost a con- tinuous layer. Their ducts penetrate through the mucous membrane and open on the posterior surface. The mucous glands are placed closely against the cartilage and in some places actually in a depression of this latter. As has been stated on a former occasion (p. 52), the cartilage is reticulated, and through its holes the mucous glands of one surface are continuous with those of the other; in some parts we find a mucous gland situated in the submucous tissue of the anterior membrane sending its duct through a hole of the cartilage to the posterior surface. According to Verson the posterior surface of the epiglottis of the new-born child is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium ; in the adult there are found, according to Davis, islands of stratified pavement epithelium amongst the ciliated columnar epithelium of the general surface. I have examined the epiglottis of eight children varying in age from two years to twelve, and in no single instance have I found the epithelium of the posterior surface other than stratified pavement epithelium, as described above. Also in carnivorous animals I do not find on the posterior surface any other than stratified pavement epithelium, the superficial layers being composed of very flattened squamous cells.—E. K. Passing from the epiglottis into the larynx the epithelium sooner or later changes from stratified pavement epithelium into stratified columnar epithelium, whose superficial cells are conical in shape and possessed of cilia (see Chapter II.). This change never occurs suddenly, but gradually and in this way : amongst the stratified pavement epithelium there appear smaller or larger islands of stratified columnar cells, of which the superficial cells are short conical, and in most, but by no means in all. instances possessed of cilia. Further away from the epiglottis these islands increase in number and size, so that we find the general surface covered with stratified columnar (ciliated) epithelium with a few islands of stratified pave- ment epithelium amongst them. Ultimately these disappear and stratified columnar (ciliated) epithelium only is present. There exist great differences with regard to whether the stratified pavement epithelium of the posterior surface of the epiglottis is changed into stratified columnar (ciliated) epithelium nearer to or further from the base of the epiglottis. The margin of the false vocal cord is covered with stratified pavement epithelium (Klein, Davis),.so is also the inner surface of the arytenoid cartilage (Davis), while in other cases close to the base of the epiglottis the epithelium is an uniform columnar ciliated epithelium. Over the thyroid and cricoid cartilages the mucous membrane is covered only by