ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 434 quantity of secretion distending them, the epithelial cells are shorter, and look more like polyhedral cells; their nucleus is then spherical. The contents of the alveolar cavities or lumen are homogeneous, transparent, albuminous, viscid, semi-fluid, and slightly tinged yellow (Kolliker, Frey, Baber); and its amount greatly influences the size of the alveoli. Under pathological conditions there are spherical or oval, larger or smaller, highly refractive, colloid, globular masses to be met with in the cavity of some of the alveoli. In the contents of some alveoli may be met with nucleated cells in various states of degeneration. They are derived from large, granular, nucleated cells, con- tained in the interalveolar connective tissue, and called by Baber parenchymatous cells. Their number varies greatly in the thyroid of different animals ; in that of the dog Baber saw them comparatively often. They appear to migrate through the epithelial lining of the alveoli into the cavity of these latter. Here they swell up and disintegrate, and thus help to increase the amount of the alveolar contents. One of the most interesting facts discovered by Baber, and which will be published by him in a forthcoming paper, is the presence of large quantities of blood in the alveolar cavities of the thyroid of man, mammals, and lower vertebrates. The coloured and colourless blood corpuscles, the former of course in overwhelming superiority, are seen to become gradually disintegrated and lost in the alveolar contents. The yellow tinge of the alveolar contents is thus easily explained, being probably haemoglobin or a derivation of it. The great quantity of coloured blood corpuscles that is met with in the alveoli of perfectly normal glands of man and animals no doubt proves that one at least of the functions of the thyroid gland is the removal and destruction of the coloured blood corpuscles. The capillary blood-vessels form rich networks around the alveoli, but they, i.e. the capillary vessels, are contained in the interalveolar connective tissue. Between the alveoli and the interalveolar connective tissue exists, in man and mammals at any rate, an inter-communicating system of lymph-spaces surrounding like sinuses a greater or smaller part of the circumference of the alveoli (Baber). They empty themselves into lymphatic vessels with valves contained in the interlobular septa and closely following and ensheathing the arterial branches (Baber). The efferent trunks form a network on the surface, i.e. in the capsule, of the gland. The lymphatics of the thyroid gland, both the interalveolar as well as the inter- lobular and capsular lymphatics, contain occasionally a tenacious semifluid homogeneous transparent substance identical with the contents of the alveoli (Baber), and it must