ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 302 limited by a membrana propria, lined with an epithelium ; in the centre of the alveolus is a distinct lumen. This latter varies in different alveoli of the same lobule; in the alveoli that are in a state of secretion it is a very conspicuous cavity, and is three and four times as large as in others, in which it is reduced to a minute canal. The state of secretion is indicated by its products (milk, albumen) being contained in the epithelial cells and in the lumen of the alveolus (see below). The membrana propria is a delicate transparent membrane, composed of a basket- shaped network of flattened branched nucleated cells (Langer, Kolessnikow). The epithelium lining the lumen is a single layer of granular-looking epithelial cells, each with a spherical nucleus. In the ‘secreting’ alveoli, that is in those with a large lumen, and containing the products of secretion, the epithelial cells are polyhedral or cubical, each with a spherical or slightly compressed nucleus. According to Kolessnikow in some alveoli there is a second layer of small round cells to be found underneath the polyhedral cells lining the lumen ; a similar relation also exists, according to the same observer, in some of the ducts. In the alveoli with a minute lumen the epithelial cells are uniform and more or less columnar. But in the ‘ secreting ’ alveoli, some of the lining epithelial cells contain one or more larger or smaller milk globules ; the cells containing one big globule appear enlarged either towards the lumen, and are then columnar, or in the broad diameter, and are then cubical. The larger the globule, contained in the cell, the more distinctly is the nucleus pressed to the periphery, the cell substance being reduced to a protoplasmic mantle around the milk globule; the appearance of such a cell is identical with that of a fat-cell filled with one large oil-globule (see Chapter VI.). The milk globules contained in the epithelial cells are each distinctly contained in a cavity (vacuole) of the latter, but they possess their own delicate albuminous mem- brane. Of precisely the same nature are the milk globules contained in the lumen of the alveolus, that is those that have been ejected from the epithelial cells, they possessing each their albuminous envelope, Ascherson’s membrane (C. Schwalbe). This envelope can be recognised as a delicate membrane becoming faintly but distinctly stained in logwood. In a preparation of hardened gland treated with alcohol and oil of cloves, the fat of the milk globule having been dissolved, the albuminous envelope is alone left behind. The alveoli differ as regards the number of the epithelial cells containing milk globules, as well as regards the number of the latter excreted into the lumen of the alveolus.