40 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. In various abnormal conditions, as in chronic inflammation, tumours, certain specific diseases, &c., new fibrous-connective tissue is being formed in great masses. Its mode of formation is the same as in the normal (embryonal) state, being derived either directly or indirectly from cellular elements in the manner stated above. The elastic fibrils are formed by the direct conversion of nucleated embryonal cells and their processes (Henle, Thin). The nucleus is lost as the development proceeds. The neuroglia and the adenoid reticulum are developed in the same manner by the direct conversion of nucleated cells (see later chapters). PLATE IX. The figures of this Plate are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350. Fig. XVI. This figure properly belongs to the chapter illustrated on the preceding Plate, for it represents corneal corpuscles of rabbit. The cornea had been inflamed and prepared with chloride of gold. In addition to the ordinary branched corneal corpuscles we find small cells, each with two or three nuclei ; these cells are (migratory) pus-cells. In the figure it is seen that these pus-cells are oblong, and that they are in close proximity to the corneal corpuscles. The reason is simply this : the passages through which these pus-cells migrate are the same in which the corneal corpuscles are situated, viz. the lymph-canalicular system. When a pus-cell has to squeeze itself through a canal it must elongate its body ; these canals being at the same time the spaces for the processes of the corneal corpuscles (see previous chapter), it follows that many pus- corpuscles appear connected with those processes ; in reality they are only above or below them, but in the same canal. Fig. XVII, (a) A layer of more or less sharply outlined, parallel, and wravy bundles of connective-tissue fibrils, from the mesentery of rabbit. On the surface of this layer is (b) a network of fine elastic fibres. Fig. XVIII. (a) Branching and anastomosing bundles of fibrous-connective tissue. (b) Network of fine elastic fibres. From the mesentery of cat. Fig. XIX. A bundle of fine connective-tissue fibres (b) ensheathed in an endo- thelial membrane (a) seen in profile, (c) Fine ‘elastic fibres ; they are not situated within the bundle of connective-tissue fibres, but on the surface of this and underneath the endothelium. From the subarachnoidal tissue of man. Fig. XX. A portion of elastic lamella, dense network of fibrils, separated by teasing from the middle coat of aorta of rabbit, after being acted upon by acetic acid.