ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. i62 c. Capsule composed of an outer and inner stratum. The former consists of bundles of fibrous connective tissue cut in various ways, because running in different directions ; the latter possesses lamellae of connective tissue with flattened connective-tissue cor- puscles between; only the nuclei of the latter are shown. s. Lymph-sinus, containing a reticulum and on it nucleated flattened endothelial cells. a. Adenoid tissue of lymph-follicle, shaken. The surface of the follicle is covered with a distinct nucleated membrane, endothelium. Numerous nuclei, indicative of lymph-corpuscles, are left in the adenoid reticulum. Fig. IVa. Shaken adenoid tissue of cortical follicle of a mesenteric gland of calf. The adenoid reticulum, a, is well seen ; only few nuclei of lymph-corpuscles are left in its meshes. The oval nuclei are indicative of the hyaline flattened endothelial cells; c is a capillary blood-vessel ensheathed in the adenoid reticulum. Magnifying power about 300. Fig. IVb. Part of a Malpighian corpuscle of spleen of man. Magnifying power about 350. a. Arterial branch in longitudinal section. b. Adenoid tissue, still containing the lymph-corpuscles; only their nuclei are shown. c. Adenoid reticulum ; the lymph-corpuscles had been removed accidentally. Fig. V. From a section through the medulla of a rabbit’s mesenteric gland, the lymphatics of which had been injected with nitrate of silver. Magnifying power about 350. a. Trabecula ; at d it is seen from the surface, and therefore it appears covered with an endothelium ; the rest of the trabecula, being cut longitudinally, shows only at the margin the endothelium in the form of a thin dark line. This endothelium is seen in many places, especially towards the lower part of the figure, to extend on the reticulum occupying the lymph sinuses, c; the nuclei on the reticulum correspond to these endothelial plates. b. Medullary cylinders ; except the nuclei of the lymph-corpuscles, their structure is not shown. Fig. VI. From a section through the medulla of a mesenteric gland of ox. Mag- nifying power about 300. a. Trabeculae. b. Medullary cylinders ; their minute structure, except the nuclei of the lymph- corpuscles, is not represented. c. The reticulum occupying the lymph-sinuses ; this reticulum is covered with nucleated flat endothelial cells containing brown pigment granules. Both the surface of the trabeculae and medullary cylinders are seen to be covered with the same endothelial cells shown in profile.