119 SYMPATHETIC GANGLIA. B. The Sympathetic Ganglia. The large sympathetic ganglia are, as regards the arrangement of their connective- tissue sheaths and lymph-paths, identical with the cerebro-spinal ganglia described in the previous chapter (Key and Retzius). The sympathetic system contains, however, very numerous microscopic ganglia in connection with minute nerve branches, such as occur in the different parts of the alimentary canal, the uro-genital organs, carotic plexus, cardiac nerves, &c. These microscopic ganglia represent spherical or elliptical or irregu- larly shaped accumulations of ganglion cells at the point of anastomosis of two, three, or more minute nerve branches; occasionally they form a lateral budlike or spindle-shaped swelling in the course of one nerve branch. They vary very greatly in size, from one or two ganglion cells placed between the fibres of a minute nerve branch, to longer or shorter chains or clumps of ganglion cells. The nerve branches that are connected with these microscopic ganglia possess a delicate sheath, a simple layer of endothelium, and contain in the majority of instances only non-medullated nerve fibres of various thicknesses. Where the ganglion represents a clump of cells placed at the point of anastomosis of nerve branches, we notice that the endothelial sheath of the latter is continued also over the ganglion. The ganglion cells of the sympathetic system are of very various sizes and shapes. As a rule, they are smaller than the cells of the cerebro-spinal ganglia ; they are elliptical, spherical, club-shaped or pear-shaped. They possess a hyaline capsule lined by flattened nucleated cells (Henle, Hannover, Kollmann, Arnstein, Fraentzel, Max Schultze, Stieda, and others). If the cell-substance withdraws (through shrinking or otherwise) from the capsule, it very often remains connected by fine processes with the nucleated cells lining the capsule (Key and Retzius), similar to what has been described above of the ganglion cells of the cerebro-spinal ganglia. Occasionally there are more than one cell in a common capsule (Courvoisier, S. Mayer). The substance of the sympathetic ganglion cells is in some instances a distinct net- work of fibrils, in others it appears coarsely granular. It contains in some instances a clump of pigment granules. As a rule there is one excentric large, spherical or oval nucleus; occasionally (especially in the rabbit, Remak) the nucleus is double. It pos- sesses a limiting membrane, a more or less distinct intranuclear network, and in this often a large nucleolus. The ganglion cells are apolar, unipolar, bipolar and multipolar. The apolar cells are generally comparatively small cells, forming groups or nests (S. Mayer, Lavdowsky); they occur especially in batrachian animals, and represent embryonal forms.