20 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. or one conspicuously large nucleus with or without indications of division, being hour- glass shaped, kidney-shaped, or lobate. On account of the very slight difference in refractive power of the endothelial cells, and the intercellular cement-substance, the outlines of the former cannot be easily ascertained. But with the aid of nitrate of silver this difficulty is entirely obviated (v. Recklinghausen). Any membrane covered with endothelium when steeped in a dilute solution of nitrate of silver per cent.) for a few minutes, after exposure to the light, shows the outlines of the individual cells of the endothelium with great distinctness, the cement-substance being now visible as a black line. The substance of the cells themselves and their nucleus is, as a rule, under these circumstances —except after prolonged staining with nitrate of silver—not discernible. Sometimes the former is recognisable by a granular precipitate, the latter being then noticeable as a clear space. But by staining with carmine or hsematoxylin or other dyes, the nucleus of the endothelial plates can be always very prominently brought out. A comparison of the endothelium of different organs shows considerable differences as regards the shape and outline of its cells. Thus, for instance, the endothelial cells lining small arteries and small lymphatic vessels are very elongated (flattened) with tolerably smooth outlines, whereas those of veins are less elongated, and their outlines are much more crinate and wavy. Again, the endothelial cells lining the large lymph- sacs of batrachian animals (subcutaneous and internal lymph-sacs), or those lining the so-called lymphatic capillaries, are more or less polygonal with a wavy or sinuous out- line. Or, the endothelial cells covering the mesentery, the pleura, and pericardium of mammals are polyhedral cells with straight outlines. But in every given place there are certain irregularities consisting in some cells deviating more or less in shape and outline from their neighbours. The endothelial plates being elastic, and their interstitial cement-substance very soft, they, just like epithelium mentioned in the preceding chapter, are capable of altering their shape, size, and thickness, according to the state of contraction or expansion of the subjacent membrane, or the direction in which this is being drawn. If, for instance, the omentum, or the mesentery, or any other delicate membrane covered with endothelium, be drawn in a certain direction—of course within reasonable limits, so as not to disturb the continuity of its elements—the endothelial cells will be found to become elongated in the same direction, and if the membrane be then brought back to its former state, or drawn into a different direction, the endothelial cells will be found to change their shape accordingly. And also their outline may undergo corresponding variations; viz. it may be straight, or wavy, or sinuous, according to the state of expansion or contraction of the membrane. The endothelial plates vary in size in the different organs, and also in one and the