i6 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. shaped granules, gradually diminishing in size from the nucleus outwards. These granules stain deeply blue in haematoxylin, and thus become very conspicuous. c) The stratum lucidum is a bright homogeneous or indistinctly striated membrane, composed of closely packed scales, in some of which minute traces of a staff-shaped nucleus may be occasionally distinguished. As a rule it is homogeneous. d) The stratum corneum is composed of many layers of horny cuticles, each of which is composed of horny non-nucleated scales. They are best shown in liquor potassii. The thickness and distinctness of these various layers is very different in the skin of different regions. The rete Malpighii is the one stratum that alters least in its thickness, whereas the stratum corneum of some parts, e.g. of the volar side of the hand and plantar side of the foot, many times surpasses in thickness that of other parts. Also the stratum lucidum and the granular layer are in some places more distinct than in others ; they are generally best developed at and near the mouth of hair follicles, and also near the nails. The cells of the deepest layer of the rete Malpighii contain, in coloured skins, a considerable amount of dark pigment granules ; these are generally accumulated in the cell-substance arotind the nucleus. The polyhedral cells of the rete Malpighii are connected with each other by fine filaments (Bizzozero, Heitzmann), the so-called prickles of the prickle-cells (Max Schultze). In fig. VIII.b this is well shown. The substance of these cells is not simply granular, but it is a very dense network, and the prickles are fibrils uniting the net- work of adjacent cells; but the cells are separated from each other by the ordinary transparent cement-substance mentioned above. Under inflammatory conditions this intercellular substance increases to a considerable extent, and hence the cells become more separated from each other, and the prickles or connecting filaments, on account of their greater length, are then better seen. The same condition, i.e. prickle cells, is noticed also in stratified pavement epithelium other than the rete Malpighii, e.g. the stratified pavement epithelium covering the mucous membrane of the mouth. PLATE IV. Fig. IX., drawn under a magnifying power of about 550; the other figures under a magnifying power of about 350. Figs. IX. and X. Simple columnar epithelium covering a villus of small intestine, goblet cells amongst them. Besides the oblong nuclei belonging to the columnar epithelial cells there are several round nuclei of lymph-corpuscles ; these are not, how-