ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 400 ligamentum spirale, the epithelial cells are columnar or conical, each with an oval nucleus ; their substance is opaque. But these columnar epithelial cells do not form a continuous compact layer, since there project vertically between them, from the sub- stance of the ligamentum spirale, spindle-shaped-looking cells extending to the free surface, and with these cells, also, here and there a capillary loop. In many instances, not- ably the guinea-pig, brownish pigment in smaller or larger clumps and in granules is met with here. This pigment is contained between, and in the cells of the stria vascularis, notably in the cells which extend from the tissue of the ligamentum spirale. At the boundary between the stria vascularis and the matrix of the ligamentum spirale there are occa- sionally met with small branched pigment cells extending in a direction parallel to the surface. In the sulcus spiralis externus a distinct but delicate hyaline basement membrane can be traced underneath the epithelium from the surface of the ligamentum spirale to the extremity of the membrana basilaris. The membrana basilaris especially in the region of the organ of Corti is the most important and most complex part of the wall of the cochlear canal. We distinguish in it: (a) the epithelium of the surface facing the cochlear canal, which, specially modified, forms the organ of Corti, and represents the sensory epithelium ; (b) a delicate hyaline (upper) basement membrane; (c) the tunica propria; (d) a second hyaline (lower) basement membrane; (e) an endotheloid layer of cells on the surface facing the scala tympani. Leaving for the present the epithelium, and considering the other layers, I find as regards these the following: both the upper and lower hyaline basement membrane are delicate and homogeneous layers, the former being a continuation of the most superficial stratum of the vestibular part of the ligamentum spirale, the latter of a similar stratum of its tympanic part. The tunica propria, on account of its greater thickness, is the matrix of the membrana basilaris and is continuous at its outer extremity, i.e. in the zona pectinata, with the bulk of the matrix of the ligamentum spirale, while at its inner extre- mity, viz. in the region of the habenula perforata, it passes into the matrix of the tympanic labium of the crista spiralis, and is also intimately connected with the periosteal tissue of the lamina spiralis ossea. When viewed from the surface in hardened specimens the tunica propria shows an uniform and fine parallel striation, owing to its containing a great many fine stiff fibrils (Hannover, Henle, Bottcher, Hensen, Nuel) running in the direction from the ligamentum spirale towards the habenula perforata. They are continuous with the