330 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. the rest of the nail-bed it is much denser, and from it arise the vascular loops for the folds and ridges of the nail-bed mentioned above. In the skin of the ear-lobes, nostrils, and lips, instead of the above superficial network of venous vessels there occur venous sinuses (Tomsa), into which on the one hand open the capillary blood-vessels coming from the papillae, and from which on the other hand come off the efferent veins. The direct communication of arteries with veins in the skin of various localities in man and mammals, e.g. in the tip of the nose, finger, ear-lobe, &c., as observed by Hoyer, has been mentioned in Chapter XIX. p. 143. The Lymphatic System. The following description is a summary of the results of a special research on the Lymphatic System of the skin and mucous membranes, which I undertook for the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board, in whose forthcoming Reports a full account of it with illustrations will be given. In that account I have referred in detail to the observations of Sappey, Teichmann, Neumann, and others. The lymphatic vessels of the skin are very numerous. They may be divided into the following systems : a) The lymphatics of the connective-tissue matrix. All layers of the corium and subcutaneous tissue contain plexuses of lymphatic vessels, whose wall is a single layer of elongated spindle-shaped or sinuous flattened endothelial plates ; these vessels vary in breadth from place to place, and many of them are possessed of valves and corre- sponding constrictions. The vessels of the superficial layer of the corium are on the whole larger than those of the next layers of the corium, and those of the deep sub-cutaneous tissue are largest. As regards the direction of the plexuses, most of them are more or less horizontal, that is, parallel to the surface of the skin ; but there are vessels passing in an oblique manner through several layers of the corium. The plexuses in the different layers are denser in the corium than in the deep sub- cutaneous tissues. From the plexus of the superficial layer of the corium ascend saccular or tubular vessels into the papillae ; they either terminate here with a caecal extremity before they have reached the middle of the height of the papilla, or they form a single or even a compound loop. This is especially the case where the papillae are large and well developed, as in the skin of the finger and the scalp of man. In all layers of the corium, including the papillae, we find fine vessels which are connected on the one hand with the plexus of the corresponding layer and on the