254 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. assumes a spiral course, thus forming a distinct section as the spiral part of the ascend- ing limb. 9. Now the tubule enters again the cortex, and becoming narrower and more or less straight, or slightly wavy, ascends in the medullary ray. After a longer or shorter course, during which it may undergo a slight variation in thickness, it leaves the medullary ray and enters the labyrinth, winding its way amongst the convoluted tubules as: 10. The irregular tubule, which is very irregular in outline, breadth and course. It passes into : 11. The intercalated segment (Schaltstlick) of Schweigger-Seidel, this being the distal convoluted tubule of exactly the same nature as the above-named third section, viz. the proximal convoluted tubule. After a longer or shorter course it passes into : 12. The curved part of the collecting tube, a narrow tube of a wavy, curved course having to find its way through the labyrinth. It joins other similar tubes and forms : 13. The straight part of the collecting tube of the cortex : this tube forms part of the medullary ray. 14. Now the collecting tube enters the boundary layer, and while passing through it increases in breadth but remains straight. It enters finally the papillary portion as : 15. The large collecting tube, or tube of Bellini, a large straight tube joining other collecting tubes. 16. Having by anastomosis with similar tubes become greatly enlarged, it opens as one of the ‘ ducts ’ with its ‘ mouth ’ on the free surface of the papilla. From the foregoing description and the diagram 1 of Plate XXXVII A., it will be seen that the Malpighian corpuscle, with its neck (1 and 2), the proximal convoluted tubule (3), the spiral tubule (4), the straight narrow part of the cortical ascending limb of Henle’s loop (9), the irregular tubule (10), the intercalated segment of Schweigger-Seidel or the distal convoluted tubule (11), the curved part of the collecting tube (12), and the next following straight part of the collecting tube (13) belong to the cortex. Amongst these the sections marked 1, 2, 3, 10, 11 and 12 belong to the labyrinth, whereas 4, 9 and 13 form the medullary ray, section 4, i.e. the spiral tubule, being the most conspicuous feature in it. Owing to the collecting tubes of the medullary rays originating through the confluence of several (curved) collecting tubules, it follows that the number of the former is much smaller than the other kinds of tubes forming the medullary rays, viz. the spiral tubules (4) and the ascending limbs of Henle’s tubes (9), the two latter being of course equal in numbers. The descending limb of Henle’s loop (5), the first thick portion of the ascending limb (7), the next following spiral part (8), and the collecting tube (14), belong to the boundary layer of the medulla and form at the same time the continuation of the medullary ray; while Henle’s loop itself (6), the large collecting tubes (15), and the ducts belong to the papillary portion of the medulla. The line of demarcation between the cortex and the boundary layer is formed by the limit to which convoluted tubes extend and by the transition of the spiral tubule (4) into the de- scending limb of Henle’s loop (5), and of the spiral portion of the ascending limb (8), into the straight narrow cortical part of the same (9). The line of demarcation between the boundary