81 OPTICAL PROPERTIES OF STRIPED MUSCLE. that they comport themselves in this respect like positive uniaxial bodies (rock crystal), the optical axis being the long axis of the muscle fibres. But not all parts of a muscle fibre are doubly refractive, the sarcous elements (Briicke) and Krause’s membrane (Engelmann) being anisotropous, the lateral disc isotropous. The sarcous elements are not the optical units, but must be considered as consisting of minute doubly refractive elements, disdiaclasts (Briicke). We have seen on a former page that also in morphological respects the sarcous elements are not of a homogeneous structure, but probably composed of minute fibrils (Kolliker). PLATE XV. Figures I. and III. are drawn under a magnifying power of about 180; figures II. and VIII. under one of about 450; and figures IV. V. VI. and VII. of about 300. Fig. I. Unstriped muscle cells of mesentery of newt ; the sheath with transverse markings is faintly seen. Fig. II. From a similar preparation as fig. I., showing that each muscle cell con- sists of a central bundle of fibrils (contractile part) connected with the intranuclear net- work, and a sheath with annular thickenings. The muscle cells show varicosities, probably owing to local contractions, and on these the annular thickenings are more distinct. The mesentery had been prepared with chromate of ammonia. Fig. III. Plexus of bundles of unstriped muscle cells of the pulmonary pleura of guinea-pig. Fig. IV. From a vertical section through the circular muscle coat of large in- testine of pig. The intestine had been hardened in chromic acid. From the con- nective tissue of the perimysium pass smaller and larger bundles between the individual muscle cells, shown here in transverse section. In many places the muscle cells have been removed (accidentally), and the interstitial substance is then seen as a honey- combed structure. Owing to the muscle cells being of considerable length, only few of them show a nucleus. The cells containing longitudinal fibrils (see above) appear in transverse section as if containing minute dots, these being the fibrils seen in section. Fig. V. From a vertical section through the circular muscle coat of small intestine of dog; the intestine had been prepared with chromate of ammonia. The honey-comb interstitial substance is well shown, and in it a few nucleated connective-tissue cells. The muscle cells appear of different sizes in the transverse section, being spindle-shaped, and consequently some are cut through the thicker part, others nearer the fine extremity. o