ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 64 central marrow cavity, become absorbed : after birth we find that in this way even portions of the original periostal bone have already been absorbed in the central cavity. The primary formation of spongy bone by the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, and the conversion of it into compact bone, as described above, represents at the same time the manner, in which all bones increase in thickness during foetal life as well as after birth, as long as they continue to grow. When new bone is formed under abnormal conditions, as in plastic operations, osseous tumours, &c., it is eminently the osteo- genetic layer of the periosteum which produces the new bone-substance. The growth in length of the diaphysis of long bones has been described before as an encroachment of the spongy bone of the extremity of the diaphysis on the intermediary cartilage. In this and in all other instances ol the formation of osseous substance, the osteo- blasts are the elements which produce both the osseous matrix and the bone corpuscles (Gegenbaur, Waldeyer), in this manner: each osteoblast, by the peripheral portion of its cell-substance (Waldeyer), gives origin to the osseous ground-substance, while the central protoplasm around the nucleus persists with this latter as the nucleated bone-cell. The bone-cell and the space in which it lies become branched. For a row of osteoblasts we then find a row of oblong or round territories, each composed of matrix, and in it a branched nucleated cell. The outlines of the individual territories are gradually lost, and we have then a continuous osseous lamina, with its bone cells. The ground-substance is from the outset a network of fibrils, it is at first soft, but soon becomes impregnated with inorganic salts, this process commencing at the ‘ point of ossification.’ The bone cells, with their processes, are situated in corresponding lacunse and canaliculi, just as in the adult osseous substance. Intermembranous Bone. The tegmental bones of the skull and the bones of the face are developed, without the intervention of cartilage, directly from a membrane which, in its structure and its function, corresponds to the future periosteum of those bones. This membrane, like that of long bones, consists of an inner osteogenetic and outer fibrous portion, the osteogenetic portion containing the same elements as in former cases, viz. blood-vessels and nucleated cells. As development proceeds there appears a reticulum of fibres, or bundles of fibres, in the meshes of which these cells are contained. The formation of bone from this periosteum is in all respects identical with that of the periostal bone, described on a former page.