307 CHAPTER XXXIII. THE SKIN. The skin of man and mammals consists of the following parts : the epidermis, the corium or cutis with the papillae, and the subcutaneous tissue with the fat. The Epidermis. The different parts of the epidermis, viz. the rete or stratum Malpighii, the stratum of granular cells of Langerhans (stratum granulosum of Unna), the stratum lucidum, and the stratum corneum, have been mentioned in Chapter II. pp. 15 and 16. A few points only will be added here to the previous description. As regards the rete Malpighii— the term stratum Malpighii is preferable—it has been mentioned that the cells of the deepest layer are more or less columnar with oval nuclei, whereas those of the middle layers are polyhedral, with more or less spherical nuclei. The substance of the cells of the deepest layer, both in the skin of dark individuals and in such parts of .the skin of man and mammals generally as are normally coloured (viz. the nipples, scrotum, and labia majora), contains a variable amount of brownish pigment granules. Both in the deepest and middle strata we meet with nuclei, whose outlines are more or less notched, and which therefore present a lobed, hourglass-shaped, or irregular appearance. This is probably due to the fact that during life the nuclei are possessed in a certain small degree of the power of spontaneous contraction (Flemming). The nucleus of some of the cells of the deepest layer contains within a distinct but delicate membrane a honeycombed reticulum, without any nucleolus. That of others does not possess any special limiting membrane, and includes a more or less dense con- volution of fibrils deeply staining in the different dyes. Then there are cells, whose nucleus has still further advanced towards division : the nucleus is larger, does not possess any membrane, and its fibrils become arranged as a rosette; then they change into a star—Monaster, and later on into a double star—Dyaster. Now the cell itself becomes divided into two in a line separating the two stars of the dyaster. Each of these daughter stars is of course much smaller than the mother star preceding the stage of the dyaster. The daughter star changes into a Convolution ; this again changes into a nucleus, similar in size, shape, and appearance to the nucleus of the cells in the middle layer of the stratum Malpighii, being spherical, well-defined by a z z