ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 28 curved surface of the tendon-bundles which surround the channel. Generally five to eight (sometimes even less) bundles surround, or rather form, the channel by joining into one group, and of the free surface of these—i.e. the surface forming part of the boundary of the channel—only two or three are covered with the row of the cell-plates, so that each of these cell-plates is correspondingly composed of two or respectively three concave sections, which join in a straight ridge, single in the former, double in the latter case (elastic stripe or stripes of Boll). The cell being flattened, a transverse section shows either two slightly curved lines joining in a projecting ridge, or two such lines joined by a middle horizontal line, also concave. In this latter instance we have to do with a cell-plate possessed on each side with a winglike expansion (Grunhagen). The shape of these tendon-cells is more or less oblong, each being separated from its neighbour at each end by a linear cement-substance. But laterally the cell-plates are possessed of fine processes extending into the depth. These processes are better seen in cells of adult than in those of young tendon. In the skin, mucous membranes, and similar organs, the connective-tissue bundles cross each other in groups or singly, and are at the same time branched, and exchange fibrils with their neighbours : in this way a very complex system of spaces is formed between the groups of bundles. These spaces—interfascicular spaces—vary in size according to the looseness or density of arrangement of the bundles, and contain the connective-tissue corpuscles, which are flattened nucleated cells possessed of more or less branched processes. As in tendon so also here the cell-plate is of a complex nature, being possessed of two or more membranous projections according to the cell- plate covering the breadth of several bundles, and sending between them membranous projections. Generally there is one section of the cell-plate which is the largest, and which usually contains the nucleus. This is the chief plate, whereas the other smaller ones coming off from it under various angles are the secondary plates (Waldeyer). All these membranous parts of the cell-plate are drawn out into fine processes, which vary considerably in length, and which often are again branched and connected with each other. In the serous membranes, synovial membranes, and other similar membranous or lamellar expansions of connective tissue, the connective-tissue corpuscles are likewise flattened nucleated cells possessed of processes more or less branched and connected with each other. The cells expanding prominently in a level parallel to the surface of the membrane, there is not much chance of their being possessed of chief and secondary plates; each cell being a plate from which processes—some filamentous, others mem- branous—come off chiefly in the level of the cell-plate. But there are in some instances more or less distinct indications of membranous processes passing upwards or downwards. in a more or less vertical direction. T*he same applies also to the cornea; here the connective tissue possesses a distinct lamellar arrangement, and the connective-tissue