ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 320 In many instances the central part of the hair proper is occupied, not by the elongated filamentous hair-scales, but by one, or two, or three rows of small polyhedral or cubical cells, each with a spherical nucleus. Their nature and shape can be easily ascertained by treating the hair with strong alkalies or strong acids. This is the marrow of the hair. Its cells are in the natural state filled with minute air-globules, hence appear black in transmitted light. After hardening the skin, the marrow can be distinguished in transverse section through the hair as a more transparent central portion without any pigment granules. The surface of the hair is covered with the cuticle; this is a single layer of minute horny scales without any nucleus, slightly elongated, and arranged transversely over the substance of the hair. They are slightly imbricated with their margins, and hence, when the cuticle is seen in profile, form a toothed or zigzag line like the teeth of a saw. Next to the cuticle of the hair lies the inner root sheath. This is composed of three different layers : a cuticle, an inner or Huxley s layer, and an outer or Henles layer. The cuticle presents itself as a very delicate film, and is distinct only when the hair is treated with strong alkalies or acids; it appears then as an almost homogeneous membrane, composed of scales imbricated with their margins and without nuclei. The inner, or Huxley’s layer, is a single or occasionally double layer of cubical or oblong homogeneous cells, each with a small remnant of a nucleus; this is not, how- ever, always distinct, especially not in the hair of some animals (pig, dog). The outer, or Henle’s layer, on the other hand, consists of small, polyhedral, glassy-looking cells, ordinarily without a nucleus; in some animals (pig) they show, however, a staff-shaped nucleus. In sections through hardened specimens showing the root of the hair in longitudinal view, the above three layers of the inner root-sheath appear as one thick glassy mem- brane on each side of the cuticle of the hair, and in it there is but a faint indication of a division into its three layers. The inner root-sheath lies close to the hair proper and reaches to near the neck of the follicle, where it terminates abruptly. Between the inner and outer root-sheath there is a delicate membrane to be noticed in some hairs, but this is probably only the most superficial layer of the flattened scales of the outer root-sheath. The shaft is identical in structure with the root, except that it does not possess a root-sheath and that its substance is harder and dryer. Both the root of the hair and the inner root-sheath form one organ and pass into, or rather develop from, the mass of cells forming the hair bulb. This is a mass of polyhedral cells covering the papilla, each with a spherical nucleus; those immediately