294 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY,\ epithelium into the mucous membrane, but these are clue to the folds cut in various directions. Hennig, however, maintains the existence of tubular glands in the human oviduct as well as in that of mammals. The muscular coat is composed of bundles of unstriped muscular cells, arranged pre- eminently circularly. There are, however, more externally oblique or even longitudinal bundles to be met with. The adventitia is a connective-tissue membrane with networks of elastic fibres. The Uterus. As in the oviduct so also in the uterus the wall consists of a mucous membrane, a muscular coat, and an outer adventitia, the peritoneum. The epithelium covering the free surface of the mucous membrane is a single layer of shorter or longer ciliated columnar cells, each with an oval nucleus. These cilia are very perishable, for soon after death and after hardening they are very difficult to recognise. Friedlander found in the human uterus the whole cavity of the uterus and the canal of the cervix lined with ciliated columnar cells. This columnar ciliated epi- thelium commences, according to Lott, in children in about the middle of the cervix; in adults it reaches to the ostium externum. The surface of the portio vaginalis is covered with stratified pavement epithelium. This is thinnest where the mucous mem- brane passes into that of the vagina; it gradually increases in thickness towards the ostium uteri externum, and just before this is reached the epithelium is thickest. Into the stratified pavement epithelium extend minute papillae from the subjacent mucosa. The mucous membrane differs greatly in structure and appearance in the cervix and in the fundus. ci) In the cervix it is a dense connective-tissue membrane arranged in a number of permanent folds, the palmae plicatae. Few and thin bundles of unstriped muscle cells penetrate from the outer muscular coat into the mucous membrane. Between, and in the palmae plicatae, are minute glands whose membrana propria is intimately connected with the connective-tissue of the mucosa. These glands are shorter or longer cylindrical or irregularly shaped tubes, possessed of a large lumen and lined with a single layer of columnar cells, which, in the newborn child at any rate, are ciliated. According to Friedlander, however, they are polyhedral and non-ciliated. Some of the epithelial cells are goblet cells (Friedlander, Wyder). In the adult these gland tubes are longer than in the newborn child, owing to the mucous membrane being much thicker in the former than in the latter. According to Kolliker, Hennig, Tyler Smith, and others, the mucous membrane of the cervix, in the lower portion, projects beyond the general surface in the shape of