ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. i68 CHAPTER XXII. LYMPHATIC VESSELS. i. The large lymphatic trunks, as ductus thoracicus and tributaries, have a structure in some respects similar to veins, but differing from these in the extreme thinness of their wall as compared with the large lumen, (a) A delicate adventitia of fibrous- connective tissue forms the outer boundary; (<5) next comes the media, a circular layer of unstriped muscle cells ; (c) on the inner surface of this is a fine elastic membrane, the intima, composed chiefly of a network of longitudinal elastic fibrils ; the inner boundary is formed by (I) a single layer of elongated nucleated endothelial plates with more or less sinuous outlines. The semilunar valves are folds of the intima and the endothelium. 2. The microscopic lymphatic vessels, such as are present in great numbers in most tissues and organs, are tubular structures; many of them possess valves and corresponding saccular dilatations; their wall is simple, being, like that of capillary blood-vessels, a single layer of endothelial plates. The endothelial cells are more or less elongated and possess each an oval excentric flat nucleus : their structural characters have been described and illustrated in Chapter III., and they have been illustrated on Plate VI. The lumen of the lymphatics bears no relation to their wall, for lymphatics that are not broader than blood capillaries, as well as such that are many times larger, have an equally delicate endothelial membrane for their wall. Hence it follows that, unlike blood- vessels, they cannot rely on the firmness of their own wall for keeping their lumen free, but must be supported in this by the surrounding connective tissue. And indeed, these vessels will be found invariably collapsed and lost to view, as soon as the tissue in which they are embedded is allowed to shrink or does otherwise contract. The lymphatics in all tissues and organs are connected into a plexus, the density and arrangement of which varies in different localities ; all the vessels of such a plexus that possess valves and corresponding saccular dilatations are considered as trunks, whereas those parts of the plexus that have no valves are lymphatic capillaries. The trunks are, as a rule, more tubular in character than the capillaries, which are often irregular, saccular, or cleft like cavities ; besides, the endothelial cells forming the wall of a trunk are generally elongated, whereas those of a capillary are shorter and their