43i CHAPTER XLIII. THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. These are : the frontal or large lobe of the pituitary gland or hypophysis cerebri, the thyroid gland, the carotic gland of Luschka, the suprarenal body and the coccygeal gland of Luschka. These organs have the same developmental history, and resemble each other in structure in many respects. They are all derived from the hypoblast forming the wall of the foetal alimentary canal in its earliest stage, and are therefore of epithelial origin. The hypophysis is an outgrowth of the cephalic extremity of the ali- mentary canal (the upper wall of the pharynx), the thyroid gland and carotic gland of its cervical part, the suprarenal body of the trunk part, and the coccygeal gland of the caudal end of the alimentary canal. In all of them the epithelial structures, derived from the hypoblast, and the vascular connective tissue, derived from the mesoblast, form the two chief constituent elements, and in this respect they resemble other secreting glands. Unlike these latter they do not possess any special ducts to carry away the secretion, but this is probably effected by their lymphatics (see below). i. The Hypophysis Cerebri. All that will be said here of this organ refers only to its frontal or larger lobe, since the posterior or smaller lobe is altogether of a different origin and nature, being derived, with the infundibulum, from the central nervous system. A relatively thick capsule composed of lamellae of fibrous connective tissue is con- nected with the connective tissue in the interior. This latter is composed of fine lamellae which by branching and reuniting form a dense plexus with smaller or larger, spherical or oblong or even cylindrical spaces. These lamellae are very delicate, and consist of fine bundles of connective-tissue fibres and on their free surface, i.e. that facing the spaces, appear lined with a layer of flattened endotheloid (connective-tissue) cells. The spaces, the alveoli, contain spherical or oblong or cylindrical masses of the parenchyma. In some places, especially in the periphery near the anterior or convex surface, these masses seem connected with one another, so that they form a more or less continuous plexus of cylindrical streaks, but in most other places they seem isolated from one another by the connective-tissue septa. Q 2