ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 56 placed between two contiguous lamellae anastomose by fine transverse processes; owing to the great number of these processes the lamellae possess a fine transverse striation. In some bones, as in microscopically thin bone-plates, the ground-substance does not exactly present the lamellar structure, showing an arrangement in band- like stripes; the bone corpuscles are then distributed more or less regularly between these bands. There are two principal modes of arrangement of osseous tissue : (a) as compact, and (b) as spongy substance. The bone-matter surrounding the central or marrow cavity of the shaft of all long bones, and the outer crust of all short and flat bones, is compact substance; whereas the spongy network of bone lamellae and bone trabeculae, containing in its meshes vascular marrow, is present in the centre of the epiphysis and in the extremities of the diaphysis of long bones ; the diploe of short bones and that of flat or tabular bones is likewise made up of spongy bone-substance. A. In the compact bone-substance we distinguish the following parts :—i. Haversian canals: these are fine canals of various lengths pervading the compact substance in a longitudinal direction, and anastomosing with one another by more or less oblique or transverse branches ; they open not only into the central or marrow cavity (or cavities) of the bone, but also on the outer free surface. Near the marrow cavity the Haversian canals are larger than those next the outer surface. Each Haversian canal contains a blood-vessel, one or two lymphatics, and, according to its size, a greater or lesser amount of connective tissue, which is identical with that of the tissue of the marrow, to be described below. 2. Bone lamellae and the corresponding bone corpuscles between them. The bone corpuscles next to the Haversian canals, by their canaliculi, freely anastomose with the lymphatics of the latter (A. Budge). The lamellae possess in the compact substance of human bones the following typical arrangement:— a) Concentric or Haversian lamellae directly surrounding the Haversian canals. Each of these canals possesses its own system of such concentric lamellae. Their numbers vary in different parts, from four to fifteen being found in one system. The number of lamellae is always smaller near the external surface of the bone than in its deeper parts. The fine radiating striation of these concentric lamellae is owing, as has been ex- plained above, to the numerous fine canaliculi passing between the neighbouring bone corpuscles. b) The interstitial or ground lamellae. The lamellae interposed between the Haver- sian systems of concentric lamellae form also groups running in various directions more or less curved : they are the interstitial or ground lamellae. The size of these groups