6 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY,\ brought into various shapes; they are at the same time elastic and therefore capable of again returning to their original form. Under the influence of urea or overheating, the coloured blood-corpuscles break up into smaller or larger particles of the same colour and structure as when a whole. When extravasated into the living tissues, they also break up into smaller or larger particles, which ultimately give origin to amorphous brown pigment. The colour of the blood-corpuscles is due to haemoglobin. When isolated they appear of a yellowish-green tint, which is of course deeper in a corpuscle seen edgewise than flat : only in thick layers do the corpuscles present a red tinge, which increases with the quantity of blood-corpuscles. In fig. VIII. fresh blood-corpuscles of newt are represented. There are amongst them two colourless corpuscles, one of which is an ordinary colourless corpuscle in the act of moving—possessed of numerous minute processes ; the other one—to the left and above—is a colourless corpuscle of the small kind, undergoing only slight amoeboid changes; below there is a free nucleus of a coloured corpuscle—mechanically pressed out. Some of the coloured corpuscles are seen flat, others edgewise, most of them show their pale oblong nucleus; a few of them are slightly shrunk, the haemoglobin at the same time being irregularly distributed in them, i.e. some parts of the disc being of a lighter, others of a darker tint. U nder a good power the nucleus of coloured blood-corpuscles of newt, frog, and especially toad, show a beautiful delicate network. In fig. IX. three coloured and one colourless corpuscle of newt are shown after having been acted upon by dilute acetic acid ; the coloured corpuscles have become decolorised, presenting now a pale transparent, well-defined disc, and in it the oblong nucleus greatly shrunk, and therefore opaque. The colourless corpuscle of this figure has been mentioned above. In fig. X. coloured corpuscles of newt’s blood are shown after treatment with a two per cent, solution of boracic acid. The result of the action of boracic acid is in this instance twofold : a) In some corpuscles the boracic acid produces, after a slight swelling, a discolouration of the disc, there being at the same time an imbibition of the nucleus with colouring matter ; the upper three corpuscles are in different stages of this change ; or 6) the disc is discoloured and the nucleus becomes stained by the colouring matter, but is seen to be possessed of minute processes which are in connection with fibrils of the disc itself. In some instances—not represented here—these latter may be seen to form a network. Thus we have to regard the coloured blood-corpuscle as a disc in which a network of fibrils is to be distinguished from the transparent ground substance; this network of fibrils is in ■ 1 • 2.