ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 2 10 3. Dentinal canals. Fig. VII. Vertical section through part of enamel organ of a bicuspid tooth of puppy. Magnifying power about 300. a. Enamel cells; the upper part of the cells is here represented as of the same granular shade as the lower part containing the nucleus, in reality it is more transparent and homogeneous. b. Small epithelial cells, the deepest layer of which is composed of cells more or less columnar. The interstitial substance is represented as uniformly transparent, but this is in so far incorrect, as the cells are distinct ‘prickle cells,’ being connected by fine processes. c. The surrounding mucous membrane, projecting into the enamel organ as small papillae. A clump of small cells is seen in the neighbourhood of the epithelium. It is an outgrowth of the epithelium. Fig. VIII. From a section through submaxillary gland of a child. Magnifying power about 45 ; representing a lobule surrounded by fibrous-connective tissue. a. Chief duct, lined by columnar epithelium. b. Fibrous-connective tissue surrounding this and its lobule. c. Intralobular ducts. d. Its terminal parts. e. Alveoli, being tubes cut in different directions. Fig. IX. From a section through submaxillary gland of a child ; magnifying power about 350 ; showing part of a mucus-secreting alveolus and its several branches. a. Lumen of alveolus, the cells lining it are mucous cells. Outside these are polyhedral granular-looking cells each with a spherical nucleus. These cells form crescentic masses around the mucous cells. c. Alveoli cut in different directions, they are not mucus-secreting and correspond to true salivary gland substance. They are much smaller and have only a small lumen, the lining cells are columnar, each with a spherical nucleus. The cell substance appears granular because its intracellular network is exceedingly dense. PLATE XXXII. Fig. X. Part of a lobule of a serous gland of root of tongue of rabbit. Magnifying oower about 450. d. Duct. a. Alveolus or gland tube cut obliquely.