291 DEVELOPMENT OF OVARY. Development of the Grafian Follicles and Ova of Mammals. In this I shall follow Balfour’s account given in No. lxxii. (October 1878) of the ‘ Quarterly Journal of Microsc. Science ; ’ for I have been able to convince myself of the accuracy of his observations. The germinal epithelium of the early foetal ovary undergoes a very rapid increase in thickness owing to the division of its cells. The division of the nucleus is here also associated with similar changes in the intranuclear network, as described in the testis, and as will be treated in detail in a future chapter; of these changes Balfour noticed some, e.g. the convolution and the aster. The thickened epithelium becomes so permeated by the vascular stroma (embryonal connective-tissue), that the former, viz. the epithelium, is transformed into a honey- combed mass; this consists of irregularly shaped groups or nests of cells connected with each other and with the cells of the surface. These nests are largest in the depth and smallest near the surface. According to Waldeyer these changes are brought about by a mutual ingrowth of the germinal epithelium and the stroma; but, according to Balfour, the segregation into nests is indicated already before the ingrowth of the stroma takes place, and it is the stroma alone that grows into the former, and thus produces the permanent separation of the nests. But in this, I think, Balfour goes too far. The separation of the nests from the external layer of the epithelium, viz. the one persisting on the surface as the germinal epithelium, by the formation, from the vascular stroma, of a tunica albuginea, takes place only very gradually. Even some time after birth, some superficial nests appear still connected with the germinal epithe- lium, Pfluger’s ovarial tubes. But many of the apparent prolongations of the germinal epithelium of the surface into the stroma, to be noticed in sections long after birth (Pfliiger, Waldeyer, and others), are not in reality outgrowths of that epithelium, but are due to folds and ir- regularities of the surface (Foulis, Balfour). The small or external nests give origin to the cortical layer of small Grafian follicles of the fully developed ovary (see a former page), whereas from the deeper-seated nests are developed the larger follicles. Some of the epithelial cells of the germinal epithelium, already in the earliest stages, enlarge and become converted into primitive ova (Waldeyer), and similar changes con- tinue to occur in the nests, in the smaller superficial as well as in the larger deep ones (Balfour), viz. some of their cells become enlarged and converted into primitive ova. x x