STRUCTURE OF LUNG. 243 tain lamellae of fibrous-connective tissue, and between them the connective-tissue cor- puscles. Numerous lymphatic vessels and lymphatic spaces are here to be met with (see below). The fibrous-connective tissue surrounding, or rather supporting, the bronchi and large vascular trunks (the adventitia) forms a continuity with that of the interlobular septa, as already mentioned. The parenchyma, consisting of the bronchi, alveolar ducts and alveoli, is divided into lobules. The small or intralobular bronchi are cylindrical tubes. They divide dichotomously into smaller tubes, and ultimately pass into the alveolar ducts (F. E. Schulze, Stieda) which take up on all sides of their circumference the lateral alveoli; the ultimate parts of the alveolar ducts are the infundibula (F. E. Schulze), which take up the terminal alveoli. The alveoli are spherical or polyhedral in shape, and those belonging to the same alveolar duct or infundibulum are separated by much less tissue than the alveoli of adjacent lobules. Passing from a terminal bronchus of man or mammals into an alveolar duct and infundibulum, we find that the epithelium becomes reduced to low polyhedral cells with- out any cilia : each cell possesses a spherical nucleus. In the alveolar duct and infundi- bulum itself we find these polyhedral cells continued as smaller or larger groups, while the rest of the lining epithelium is made up of very large flattened transparent cell plates of exactly the same appearance as those of an ordinary endothelial membrane. From the alveolar ducts and infundibula we trace, into the alveoli, both the small polyhedral cells as well as the large flattened cell plates; the latter predominate greatly over the former, there being left only isolated or small groups (two or three) of the small polyhedral cells between the transparent placoids lining the alveoli (Elenz, F. E. Schulze and others). In the lung of cat the number of such polyhedral cells is greater than in the lung of other mammals. They are easily perceived both in the fresh state as well as after reagents, especially after staining with nitrate of silver, being conspicu- ous by their ‘ granular ’ appearance, and by being smaller and much thicker than the others, viz. the placoids. Except in size and appearance the two kinds of cells are identical, both being epithelial cells derived from the hypoblast of the embryo. At first sight it seems as if the two kinds of cells were essentially different, the one being a continuation of the polyhedral epithelial cells lining the terminal parts of the bronchi, the other of the sub- epithelial endothelial membrane mentioned above. And this has indeed been asserted to be the case (Debove) ; but there can be no doubt that in the embryo this distinction