355 STRUCTURE OF THE CHORIOIDEA. larger blood-vessels, the stratum vasculosum of Loewe ; it is a continuation of a similar section of the ciliary processes. d) Then follows the elastic layer of Sattler. This observer finds in the human chorioidea, and also in that of many mammals, underneath or outwards of the chorio- capillaris, an endothelial membrane, then a stratum of elastic networks, generally without cells and containing the small branches of the arteries and veins. A second endothe- lial membrane separates it from the next following elastic layer, which generally contains branched pigment cells. e) Further comes the membrana chorio-capillaris, containing the dense network of capillaries. These vessels are ensheathed in a special layer of spindle-shaped and flattened cells, pigmented or unpigmented ; the former are either large flat plates with few broad short processes, or they are small with numerous fine long processes. The unpigmented cells are small and branched ; spheroidal cells, both with or without pigment granules, occur also here. f) A hyaline smooth lamina vitrea separates the chorio-capillaris from the uvea. g) This last, viz. the uvea, is considered a part of the retina. In the region of the ora serrata the uvea is covered with the pars ciliaris retinae, mentioned above. Ivanoff mentions bundles of unstriped muscle cells which are to be met with even in the posterior parts of the chorioid membrane ; although outrunners of the meridional portion of the ciliary muscle, they are supposed by him to be independent muscular bundles belonging to the tissue of the chorioidea. According to Hallsten and Tigerstedt the chorioidea of man and many mammals (especially rabbit) possesses a continuous layer of unstriped muscle cells situated close to the outer surface of the chorio-capillaris, and probably identical with Sattler’s inner endo- thelial membrane. The cells of this muscular membrane have a meridional direction, except at the entrance of the optic nerve and at the ora serrata, where they are arranged circularly. The dense network of capillaries of the membrana chorio-capillaris is derived from the arteriae ciliares breves and recurrentes. The vessels leading into the venae vorticosae are derived from the chorio-capillaris, from the iris, ciliary processes and the greater part of the ciliary muscle. The wall of the capillary blood-vessels of the chorio-capillaris is, like that of other capillaries, a single layer of elongated endothelial plates (Hallsten and Tigerstedt). The lymphatics will be considered in connection with those of the eyeball in general. 3 f