55 CHAPTER IX. BONE TISSUE. Bone or osseous tissue forms the third section of the group of connective tissues, fibrous tissue, including elastic tissue, being one, and cartilage the other section. Osseous tissue has, in the adult, a greater distribution than either of the other two, form- ing the whole skeleton and part of the teeth, the cement; in lower vertebrates it is found, in addition, also in other parts, as skin, sclerotic membrane, &c. As in other connective tissues, so also in bone we distinguish the ground-substance, or matrix, from the cells, bone corpuscles, embedded in it. The matrix is a firm brittle substance uniformly impregnated with insoluble inorganic salts, chiefly lime salts (carbonate of lime, basic phosphate of lime, magnesia, &c.) ; it appears transparent when examined in a thin section under the microscope. By adding acids to it, the insoluble lime salts are converted into soluble ones, and the bone ground-substance is thus gradually freed of them. The organic basis of the ground-substance, the ossein, presents itself, under these conditions, as a dense mass of minute fibrils, arranged either parallel or interlacing each other in a complex manner or joined in a network. The arrangement of these fibrils into well-defined groups determines the lamellar nature of the ground-substance (v. Ebner). These fibrils comport themselves in chemical respects like fibrous connective tissue, swelling up by the action of acids, and yielding, when subjected to boiling, glutin or gelatin. The bone corpuscles are more or less elongated lacunae possessed of numerous fine branched and unbranched canals, by means of which neighbouring lacunae anastomose with one another. The processes pass in all directions, and are more or less wavy and twisted. Each lacuna with its canals contains a flattened nucleated protoplasmic cell, the bone cell proper, possessed of numerous fine processes. The relation between the bone lacuna and canals, on the one hand, and the bone cell and its processes, on the other hand, is precisely the same as that mentioned of the connective-tissue corpuscles of the cornea (see Plates VII. and VIII. p. 30), viz. the lacunae with their anastomosing canals form one intercommunicating system of spaces, the lymph-canal system, lined with the flattened nucleated branched and anastomosing bone cells. The osseous ground-substance possesses in most instances lamellar structure, the lamellae being then separated by rows of the oblong-bone corpuscles. The corpuscles K