i35 PLEXUS OF FINE NERVE FIBRES. best seen. The isolated fibrils in the left portion of the figure are those that run immediately underneath the epithelium, and are connected into the subepithelial network. Fig. IV. From a preparation of the submucous tissue of large intestine of toad, stained in chloride of gold ; showing part of a plexus of non-medullated nerves. All branches consist of elementary fibrils. Three nuclei are shown that belong to nerve corpuscles; the sheath is not represented. Fig. V. From a preparation of tadpole’s tail, prepared with chloride of gold, showing the plexus of larger and smaller nerve fibres. The nuclei are indicative of nerve corpuscles ; the sheath is marked by a slight pink tint. PLATE XXV. Figures VI. VII. IX.—XI. are copied from Key and Retzius. Fig. VI. Two capsules of a Pacinian corpuscle of man ; an endothelial membrane, lining a third capsule, is represented on the right as if viewed from the surface. Magni- fying power 450. Fig. VII. Termination of the axis cylinder in the central clear mass of a Pacinian corpuscle of the mesentery of cat. The axis cylinder divides into 4 to 5 branches, each of which terminates in a globular end-bud. The capsules next the central clear mass are represented in outline only. Magni- fying power 750. Fig. VIII. A Pacinian corpuscle of the mesentery of cat, as seen under a magni- fying power of about 100. The stalk consists of the nerve fibre with its thick outer sheath. The peripheral capsules of the Pacinian corpuscle are continuous with the outer sheath of the stalk. The intermediary part becomes much narrower near the entrance of the axis cylinder into the central clear mass. A hook-shaped termination with the end-bulb is seen in the upper part. A blood-vessel enters the Pacinian corpuscle, and approaches the end- bulb ; it possesses a sheath which is a continuation of the peripheral capsules of the Pacinian corpuscle. Fig. IX. An end-bulb of the conjunctiva of man. The medullated nerve fibre shows a node of Ranvier, a sheath of Schwann, and a nerve corpuscle; outside these is another sheath, the sheath of Henle. The end-bulb itself possesses a capsule continuous with the sheath of Henle ; the matrix of the end- bulb is a granular substance with nuclei. The nerve fibre on entering loses its y