278 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. of the surface hereby produced imitate glandular pits ; they are considered as r eal glands by some observers (Henle, Leydig, and others). The muscular coat consists of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal stratum of unstriped muscle cells. At the commencement of the vas deferens there is, however, in addition, a thin inner longitudinal coat. The adventitia is fibrous connective-tissue, it contains the longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscle cells known as cremaster internus of Henle ; further, the rich plexus of veins known as plexus pampiniformis ; the plexus of lymphatic trunks with valves; and the nerve trunks of the plexus spermaticus. Small groups of ganglion cells and large ganglionic swellings are met with in connection with the branches of this plexus. In the vesiculcz seminales we meet with the same coats as in the vas deferens, but they are thinner in the former than in the latter. The mucous membrane is placed in numerous folds, whereby pits and grooves are produced resembling minute glandular depressions (Henle). The epithelium is composed of a superficial layer of long columnar cells and a deep layer of more or less polyhedral cells. The muscular coat is, as a whole, thinner than in the vas deferens, and consists of an inner and outer longitudinal and a middle circular coat of unstriped muscle cells, the first being the thickest. In the thick fibrous connective-tissue adventitia are the large blood and lymphatic vessels and the nerve trunks, with numerous ganglionic swellings, some of them of a considerable size. In the ductus ejaciilatorii we also meet with a layer of columnar epithelial cells, and underneath these small polyhedral cells ; outside the epithelium is a delicate connective- tissue mucosa; further outside is a muscular coat composed of an inner thick- longitudinal and an outer thinner circular layer. When passing into the vesicula prostatica the columnar epithelium is gradually replaced by stratified pavement epithelium. The Prostate Gland. The framework of the prostate gland is composed of a small amount of fibrous connective-tissue and of a great quantity of unstriped muscular tissue. The first forms the outer capsule and the thin septa passing inwards and carrying the blood-vessels ; the second is arranged as a network of septa and trabeculae surrounding the different parts of the gland tissue proper. This latter consists of the ducts opening on the surface of the pars prostatica of the urethra, mostly at the basis of and near the colliculus seminalis; they branch into smaller ductlets which pass into the gland-alveoli. These latter are longer or shorter, wavy or convoluted, branched tubes, terminating in saccular blind extremities; many of