22 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. endothelial cells. The peritoneal surface of the diaphragm—especially the central tendon—contains broader or narrower streaks of small endothelial cells, and amongst these there are germinating endothelial cells arranged around the stomata (Klein), i.e. the openings by means of which the lymphatics of the diaphragm communicate with the peritoneal cavity (see below). In the frog’s mesentery, mesogastrium, and septum cisternae lymphaticae magnae, there are also isolated or groups of germinating endo- thelial cells amongst the ordinary large flat transparent cells. In female individuals these germinating cells are ciliated, being possessed on their free surface of a bundle of fine hairs. This is especially the case about the spawning time (Dogiel and Schweigger- Seidel). On the peritoneal surface of the septum cisternse lymphaticae magnae—the large lymphatic cavity extending on each side along the vertebral column and behind the peritoneum of the whole abdominal cavity—we find in some frogs, amongst the ordinary large flat cells, continuous and anastomosing streaks, composed entirely of the small polyhedral granular, i.e. germinating endothelial cells, which in females during the spawning season are all ciliated. As will be pointed out presently, the septum cisternse lymphaticae magnae is perforated by numerous holes—by means of these an open communication is established between the peritoneal cavity and the cisterna lymph. —which in many instances are surrounded by a special layer of germinating endothelial cells. These are ciliated in females about the spring and are possessed of contractility ; in consequence of this they are able to influence the state of dilatation of the stomata which they surround. Similar contractility may be noticed under suitable conditions also on some ger- minating endothelial cells of the mesogastrium and the mesentery of frog. PLATE V. All figures, except fig. IV., are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350; fig. IV. about 500. 1 he brown tint in many figures of this and the following two plates is owing to their respective preparations having been stained in nitrate of silver. Fig. I. Surface view of the endothelium covering the mesentery of cat. The mesentery had been first stained in nitrate of silver, and then in haematoxylin ; by the first process, the outlines only of the endothelial cells, i.e. the interstitial cement-sub- stance, is shown, the cell-substance being marked by a uniform brown tint; by the second process the oval and excentric nuclei of the individual cells are brought out in addition.