ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 442 threads. But even with good high powers, ^ and ^ oil immersion of Zeiss, tL- and -i- oil immersion of Powel and Lealand, water immersion of Powel and Lealand, L water immersion of Zeiss and good illumination (Abbe s or Powel and Lealand’s con- denser), I am not able to definitely settle whether the ‘ Double threads ’ are really two separate fibrils or one hollow tubular fibril. In the next phase the separation into loops is still more distinct and uniform ; but the loops are very long and not simple, one and the same thread contributing to form a number of them. The arrangement of the loops resembles now a ‘wreath’ or ‘rosette.’ One thread having formed a loop in the centre, turns radially towards the periphery, forms here again a loop, and returns radially towards the centre, here forms again a loop, &c. The nuclei of this phase are also larger than in the previous one, and their size in some instances is little less than that of the cell itself, the outlines of both being then close together. In this phase it is noticed that the fibrils are very thick or very thin ; and in the latter case they appear either as double threads or not. In most cases the fibrils forming the wreath are compressed into a relatively thin plane ; the nucleus, or what corresponds to it, does not now form any more a spherical or oval body, but is greatly flattened. When seen from the surface the arrangement of the threads as a wreath is very distinct, but when viewed in profile it appears of course altogether different. This condition corresponds to the form which is called by Strassburger nuclear plate (Kernplatte), and by Flemming ./Equatorial plate (Aequatorialplatte). In the next phase the threads appear separated into single open loops ; the bend of the loops are situated in the centre of the nucleus, while the ends of their limbs are directed towards the periphery. Thus a distinct star-shaped figure is produced, the Monaster. Different monasters vary in the length and thickness of the limbs of the loops. In some instances all loops consist of double threads, in others the threads appear very thick and short. The threads of the monaster are generally compressed into a relatively thin plane, the nuclear plate. In those kinds of cells which I have examined, I am inclined to think that this form of the monaster is much rarer than I first thought, and as also Flemming assumes, the phase of the wreath in many instances changing at once into the one to be described next. In the wreath, as mentioned above, the threads form loops in the centre and at the periphery, but they are all compressed into the nuclear plate. We have now to imagine that the single centre separates into two, one above the other, that is to say, the loops previously all contained in a single plane and radiating towards a single centre now separate as it were into two groups, one above the other; in each group the loops