ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 234 indicating the centroacinar cells ; these are transparent and spindle-shaped, but are not shown here. The transition of the epithelium of the intermediary part of the duct into that of the alveoli is represented here as a direct one, but in the preparation it does not appear quite so clear ; see the text. Fig. XIII. From a vertical section through the mucous membrane of the large intestine of dog. Magnifying power about ioo. in. Mucosa containing the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; these are separated by the adenoid tissue of the mucosa. mm. Muscularis mucosae, consisting of an inner circular (cut longitudinally) and an outer longitudinal layer (cut transversely). s. Submucous tissue with large vessels. Fig. XIV. From a vertical section through the liver of rabbit, after an injection of the bile vessels with Berlin blue and of the portal vein and its capillaries with carmine gelatin; showing the greater part of two adjoining lobules. Magnifying power about 90. a. Interlobular veins. b. Central vein. The interlobular branches of the portal vein are surrounded by a network of (inter- lobular) small bile ducts. These take up the intralobular or bile capillaries forming a network, the meshes of which are polyhedral, and correspond to the outlines of the liver cells. The blue injection did not penetrate farther than about the middle of the lobules, that is, midway between the interlobular and central vein. The bile capillaries of the tissue surrounding the latter are therefore not injected. The blood capillaries form a dense network, more or less radiating from the interlobular to the central vein. The liver cells are not represented. Fig. XV. A part of a lobule of a similar liver as in the preceding figure, but more magnified, about 250. The section is, however, not vertical, but horizontal. In con- sequence of this many blood capillaries appear cut transversely. b. Bile capillaries. c. Blood capillaries, cut longitudinally. n. The same in transverse section. The liver cells are not shown here, but fill up all the space between bile capillaries and blood capillaries. Fig. XVI. From a section through a lobule of liver of guinea pig. Magnifying power about 450.