ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 32 It is also noticed in this figure that the interfascicular channels are flatter near the surface of the tendons than in the depth. PLATE VIII. All figures of this plate, except fig. XV., are drawn under a magnifying power of about 450; fig. XV. about 350. Fig. VIII. Three connective-tissue corpuscles of mesentery of newt, prepared first with chromate of ammonia and then with carmine. The distinction between the two substances, viz. hyaline ground-plate and intracellular network of fibrils, is very clear. The latter substance forms a larger or smaller accumulation at one side of the nucleus, with the network of which it is intimately connected, and is drawn out into the longer or shorter branched processes. Some of these resemble, at one point or other, membranous, not filamentous expansions. Fig. IX. Vertical section through perichondrium and hyaline cartilage stained first with chloride of gold and then in logwood. a. Loose connective tissue around perichondrium ; the thin bundles of connective- tissue fibres leave between them relatively large spaces containing the connective-tissue cells ; in most of them only the nucleus is brought out. b. Perichondrium, composed of connective-tissue bundles ; most of these being arranged longitudinally—especially in the right part of the figure—are all cut transversely. It is seen that here, just as in tendon, exist large spaces—interfascicular lymph- spaces—between groups of connective-tissue bundles ; in these spaces lie the connective- tissue cells (their nucleus being shown here only); the small spaces passing from the large interfascicular spaces between the individual bundles contain the cement-substance uniting contiguous bundles. c. Hyaline cartilage ground-substance containing the nucleated cartilage-cells. Fig. X. From a preparation of the tail of tadpole, stained with chloride of gold and logwood. in. Two migratory connective-tissue cells; the other cells are the ordinary branched cells, each with an oblong nucleus. Many of the processes of these corpuscles are not filamentous, but membranous : this is, however, not brought out well in the figure. Fig. XI. Corneal corpuscles—viewed from the surface—of frog ; chloride of gold specimen. Fig. XII. The same of kitten; chloride of gold specimen. The distinction that had been pointed out in figs. VI. and VII. is also observable in these two figs. XI. and XII. ; viz. that in frog the corneal corpuscles are more isolated than in kitten, they being here in many places grouped together.