33 CORNEAL CORPUSCLES. In fig. XI. the substance of the corneal corpuscles is less stained than the nucleus or nuclei. The cornea had been slightly inflamed and we find many corpuscles possessing two nuclei, the originally single nucleus having undergone division. In fig. XII. the nucleus is transparent as compared with the cell-substance. If we compare these two figs. XI. and XII. with figs. VI. and VII., we have to regard the former as the positive images of the latter, i.e. the negatives ; the former being the cells themselves, brought out by chloride of gold, occupy the spaces, i.e. the lymph- canalicular system of the latter, brought out by nitrate of silver. But it will be noticed that the corpuscles brought out by chloride of gold do not, as regards size, completely coincide with the lacunar system brought out by nitrate of silver. The very same difference may be shown to exist when comparing the lacunar system of a silver- preparation of mesentery—the surface-endothelium having been pencilled off before staining with silver—with the network of branched corpuscles of a gold specimen of the same membrane, viz. the latter is much smaller than the former. The explanation of this is very simple, it has been given above: in chloride of gold specimens we miss the ground-plate (see fig. VIII.), and we see only the nucleus with the substance that we called previously the intracellular network of fibrils. Fig. XIII. From a vertical section through the tissue of cornea, hardened in bichromate of potash and stained in logwood. The ground-substance is composed of bundles of fibrillar connective tissue. Between groups of bundles we see the interfascicular, or rather interlamellar lymph-spaces; these are viewed here in profile, the cornea being cut vertically, and the. lymph-spaces, i.e. the lacunar system, having, as mentioned above, an expansion parallel to the surface of the lamellae. The lacunae of the lymph-canalicular system are represented here as large, widely-distended spaces, the canals by means of which they anastomose (see figs. VI. and VII.) are (except in two or three instances) not shown here for obvious reasons. A section placed vertically on figs. VI. and VII., and then viewed sideways, would only in very few instances show the canals connecting neighbouring lacunae. In our vertical section, fig. XIII., the lacunae are abnormally distended, and in them are seen, in profile, the flattened nucleated corneal corpuscles ; in some lacunae we see in addition one or two round nuclei belonging to migratory cells. As in the case of tendon and other connective tissues, so also in the cornea the interfascicular lacunar system contains, besides the connective-tissue cells, also the irrigating albuminous fluid-plasma; and this lacunar system represents at the same time the passages through which the amoeboid corpuscles find their way. Fig. XIV. From a transverse section through the external part of oedematous skin. a. Lymphatic vessels lined with endothelium, seen here in profile, b is a section through a valve of a lymphatic. The ground-substance of the skin is composed of