304 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. indicated as spherical oval or oblong structures, many of them containing a coagulum stained brownish purple. b. The connective-tissue around the lobule. The epithelial cells lining the ducts as well as those of the alveoli are indicated by their nuclei only. Figs. II. and III. from the same gland as shown in fig. I., but under a much higher power, about 400. a. Alveoli in transverse section, their lining epithelium is seen in profile. It con- sists of a single layer of polyhedral or short columnar cells, each with a spherical or oval nucleus. Some of the cells contain a larger or smaller cavity, either filled with a milk globule stained purple, or empty, the milk globule having been discharged. In the cavity of the alveoli are seen such discharged milk globules of various sizes; they are embedded in a finely granular matter, coagulated albumen. The purple staining of the milk globules is most probably due to their being each ensheathed in an albuminous envelope. b. The lining epithelium viewed from the surface. Fig. IV. From a vertical (longitudinal) section through the ovary of a half-grown cat; magnifying power about 40. a. The albuginea; the germinal epithelium covering it is not shown, owing to the low magnifying power. b. The cortical layer of small Grafian follicles. c. The next layer of middle-sized Grafian follicles. cl. The deep layer of Grafian follicles, one containing three ova, each in a separate discus proligerus. e. The zona vasculosa of the hilum. Fig. V. A Grafian follicle of the layer c of the previous figure under a higher magnifying power, about 350. The Grafian follicle is surrounded by layers of the spindle-shaped cells of the stroma. A delicate membrana propria with staff-shaped nuclei forms the boundary of the follicle itself. The membrana propria is lined with the membrana granulosa, a single layer of beautiful columnar epithelial cells. The centre of the follicle is filled with the ovum, containing a large nucleus or germinal vesicle, in which is seen the germinal spot or nucleolus. The ovum is surrounded by a bright zona pellucida, here represented as a clear space, the outer surface of which is intimately connected with the interstitial substance between the cells of the granulosa. Fig. VI. From the same preparation as fig. IV., but under a higher power, about 350. 1. Germinal epithelium of the surface.