CHAPTER XXX. THE URINARY ORGANS. The Kidney. The framework of the kidney of man and mammals consists of (a) the outer capsule ; (b) the membrane lining- the pelvis and calices ; (c) the tissue passing from the calices into the parenchyma of the kidney as the carrier of the large blood-vessels; (d) the connective tissue of the parenchyma itself. a) The capsule is composed of fibrous-connective tissue more or less of a lamellar arrangement, with the corresponding flattened endotheloid connective-tissue corpuscles between the lamellae. A thin deep portion of the capsular tissue is much looser and more delicate than the rest; its bundles penetrate between the tubes of the peripheral part of the cortex, chiefly in connection with the vascular branches running between the latter (cortex) and the capsule. According to Eberth there exists a plexus of unstriped muscle cells underneath the capsule of the human kidney. b) The membrane lining the pelvis and calices is, like the one forming the wall of the ureter, covered on its internal free surface with stratified transitional epithelium (see below). Underneath this epithelium is a dense feltwork of connective tissue with the corresponding connective-tissue corpuscles. This stratum is the mucosa, and it passes insensibly into the loose outer coat or submucosa, composed chiefly of trabeculae of connective tissue and a few elastic fibres ; its outer section contains a greater or smaller amount of fat-cell tissue, while its inner section includes numerous bundles of unstriped muscle cells, arranged in a longitudinal and circular layer and continuous with the muscular coat of the ureter. On the papillae only circular muscular fibres are met with (Henle). Paladino, Sertoli, and especially Egli, described in the pelvis of the kidney of the horse small, simple or branched gland tubes lined with a single layer of columnar epithelial cells ; also in the pelvis of the human kidney Egli observed, but not constantly, gland tubes similar to sebaceous follicles. c) The connective tissue of the submucosa above mentioned penetrates, together Avith the large vascular trunks, into the parenchyma, at the boundary of the cortex and medulla. It also carries with it longitudinal muscular bundles; they retain the same direction while accompanying the vascular trunks, viz. more or less parallel to the surface of the kidney. d) The connective tissue of the parenchyma differs very greatly in the different parts Q Q