3°8 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. distinct membrane, and including a honeycombed reticulum with or without one or more thickenings—nucleoli. This indirect division of nuclei will be fully described in a future chapter, but it may be pointed out here that as a rule in the normal state only the cells of the deepest layer undergo the division, and that the cells derived from them pass on into the next layers. Occasionally, though very rarely, a nucleus of a cell above the deepest layer may be seen in one of the stages of indirect division. This mode of division has been observed in the nuclei of the deepest layer of cells of the epithelium of the cornea, of the skin and mucous membranes in the adult and embryo, under normal and abnormal conditions, in lower and higher vertebrates (Mayzel, Eberth, Flemming, Klein, Peremeschko). The cells of the deepest and middle layers are separated from one another by a clear interstitial cement-substance, which, as has been stated on former occasions, increases to a considerable extent under inflammatory conditions. The cell-substance is a dense reticulum, and hence presents the appearance of ‘ granular ’ protoplasm, but contiguous cells remain connected by minute processes, i.e. of the prickle cells, described p. 16. Towards the surface of the stratum Malpighii the epithelial cells and their nuclei be- come more and more flattened, and gradually filled with peculiar granules. These granules are more or less discoid, and therefore appear rodlike in the profile view. They increase in size and numbers towards the surface of the stratum Malpighii, as has been stated p. 16. They stain a deep purplish blue in hzematoxylin, and hence become very con- spicuous in preparations coloured with this dye. This section of the stratum Malpighii, viz. the cells containing the granules, represents the ‘stratum of granular cells’ (Langer- hans), ‘stratum granulosum’ of Unna. The granules are neither protoplasm nor horny matter, Keratin, like that of the cells of the stratum lucidum or stratum corneum, but are probably a transitional stage between the two. The stratum granulosum varies in thickness, in the different localities, like the epi- dermis as a whole ; in some places where the epidermis is very thick, as in the palm of the hand and foot, this layer is also well developed, consisting of three, four, and more layers of cells. In other places, as on the inner side of the arm and forearm, thigh, the cubital, popliteal, and similar regions, where the epidermis is very delicate, the stratum granulosum is only rudimentary. It is better developed at the mouth of the hair follicles and in their neighbourhood than in the parts between them, it is also well developed near the nails ; it is not found in the nail-bed (Heynold), but its absence is limited to the matrix of this (Hebra). In the stratum lucidum the scales are very closely pressed against one another, and