i57 LYMPH SINUSES OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. numerous vessels which are connected into a dense network ; the vessels of this network are situated in the outer stratum and between this and the inner stratum. They are lymphatic tubes with valves and corresponding saccular dilatations. From this network vessels pass into the depth and open into the cortical sinuses. As has been mentioned above, these are freely connected with the medullary sinuses forming an intercom- municating system. At the hilus tubular lymphatics are developed from the medullary sinuses. Some of these vessels maybe traced, embedded in a trabecula, fora considerable distance into the medulla of the gland. They are possessed of valves and corre- sponding saccular dilatations ; at and near the hilus they are connected into a net- work. From this network are developed the efferent lymphatic trunks. The stream of lymph or injection fluid passing through the gland is therefore from the afferent vessels into the capsular network ; from here into the cortical, then into the medullary, sinuses ; from these into the network of lymphatics of the hilus, and finally into the efferent lymphatic trunks. Neither the cortical nor medullary sinuses are, however, free passages like the other lymphatics, for they are filled with a spongy substance, a peculiar reticulum, by which their cavity is subdivided into minute spaces. This reticulum, although in some respects similar to the adenoid reticulum, differs from the latter by being thicker and coarser, and its meshes larger. Like the adenoid reticulum it is also of a homogeneous nature. We have, then, a sponge-like reticulum occupying the sinuses that separate, in the cortex, the surface of the follicles from the inner stratum of the capsule and septa, and in the medulla, the surface of the lymphatic cylinders from that of the trabeculae. The afferent lymphatics, those of the capsular network, as well as the lymphatics of » the hilus and the efferent trunks, are lined with a single layer of endothelium like other lymphatics to be specially described in one of the next chapters, so are also the sinuses of the cortex and medulla : both the surface of the follicles and of the medullary cylinders, on the one hand, and that of the septa and trabeculae, on the other, being covered with a layer of endothelial cells. This endothelium is continuous on to the aforesaid spongy reticulum, stretching through the sinuses; the flattened endothelial cells do not, however, cover the spaces of the reticulum, but keep close to its fibres and membranes. In some animals (bovine) the endothelial cells of the sinuses of the medulla, both those covering the medullary cylinders and trabeculae as well as those belonging to the spongy reticulum, are filled with yellowish-brown pigment granules; hence the medulla presents already in the fresh state a dark brown colour. The meshes of the reticulum of the cortical and medullary sinuses generally contain