ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 92 The latter or intima pise is a meshwork of bundles of connective-tissue fibres; its inner surface is lined with a layer of endotheloid cells, and between this layer and the connective- tissue meshwork is a network of fine elastic fibres. The numerous blood-vessels of the pia are situated between the external and internal layer, whence they penetrate, carried by a prolongation of the latter, into the substance of the cord. Numerous nerve fibres (medullated and non-medullated) may be traced (Axel Key and Retzius) in the external portion of the pia. They run either isolated or in small bundles, or they form a plexus. Between the arachnoidea and pia is a spongy tissue by which the subarachnoidal space becomes subdivided into numerous minute lacunae. This tissue is the sub- arachnoidal tissue, and it consists of a plexus of smaller and larger trabeculae of fibrous- connective tissue ensheathed in endothelium and containing a few elastic fibres. We have described and figured it on a former occasion as being identical with the fenestrated membrane composing the omentum. Axel Key and Retzius have shown that the subarachnoidal tissue is a prolongation of the inner or fenestrated portion of the arach- noidea. It forms in some places on the external surface of the pia, with which it is in continuity, smaller or larger membranous condensations as epipial tissue (Axel Key and Retzius). The trabeculae of the subarachnoidal tissue contain larger and smaller blood-vessels. On each side of the cord, from the foramen ovale magnum down to the filum terminale, between the anterior and posterior nerve roots, is the ligamentum denticulatum stretching like a diaphragm between arachnoidea and pia; the subarachnoidal space is hereby subdivided into a spatium subarachnoidale anterius and posterius (Axel Key and Retzius). The ligamentum denticulatum consists of trabeculae of connective-tissue bundles, anastomosing with one another and hereby forming a spongy or fenestrated substance ; the trabeculae are covered with endothelium. This tissue passes into the external layer of the pia mater. I here are also isolated connective-tissue trabeculae extending between dura mater and arachnoidea; they are ensheathed in endothelium, like all other structures, blood-vessels and nerves, passing from the one membrane to the other. These trabeculae are in some places more numerous than in others, most numerous in the posterior parts of the cord. Between the dura mater and arachnoidea is the subdural, between archnoidea and pia mater the subarachnoidal lymph space. The subdural space does not communi- cate with the subarachnoidal space (Luschka, Axel Key and Retzius).