208 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. another very freely, and extend nearly to the surface, where they form loops or terminate in saccular caecal extremities. In many places the lymphatics almost inva- ginate the gland tubes for a longer or shorter distance. In the mucosa, especially between the fundus of the peptic glands, are found occasionally smaller or larger masses of adenoid tissue. They form in some instances distinct lymph follicles, arranged either singly or in groups. At the point of union of the pyloric end of the stomach with the duodenum of man and other mammals occur numerous lymph follicles (Watney). The nerve trunks derived from both the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic include minute ganglia (Remak). The nerve branches, having entered the external muscle coat, form a plexus, extending in a horizontal direction between the longitudinal and circular stratum, the plexus of Auerbach. In this plexus are included spindle-shaped, angular or nodular ganglia. The ganglion cells are apolar, unipolar or multipolar. Nerve branches pass from the plexus of Auerbach into the submucous tissue, where they are again connected into a plexus, the plexus of Meissner; this also includes minute ganglia, whose cells appear unipolar and bipolar. The structure of both these plexuses and their ganglia will be considered more minutely in connection with the small intestine. Rabe describes a rich plexus of nerve fibres surrounding the peptic glands of horse; some of them terminate in peculiar spindle-shaped cells, each with two small nuclei. PLATE XXXI. Fig. I. From a vertical section through embryonal tooth of dog; the tooth is still surrounded on all sides by the tooth sac. Magnifying power about 45. The preparation had been stained first in carmine and then in hsematoxylin. a. Tooth papilla; its cells and its blood-vessels are only indicated owing to the very low magnifying power. b. The layer of odontoblasts, the most peripheral stratum of the tissue of the papilla, is well shown. c. Dentin; numerous fine lines pass through it, they agree with the outlines of the odontoblasts from which the dentinal matrix is derived, and correspond to the places for the future dentinal canals. There is a distinction between an inner thin layer of dentin next to the odontoblasts and an outer broader layer, the first is the most recently formed and not yet calcified. Next to this layer is the rudiment of enamel, marked by a thin layer of a substance stained deeply in haematoxylin. d. Inner membrane of the enamel cap, the columnar enamel cells are well shown. e. Middle membrane of the enamel cap, being a honey-cOmbed structure.