94 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The amount of neuroglia varies in different parts of the white and grey matter. It forms definite accumulations in the following parts :— a) On the external surface of the white matter it is present as a special peripheral crust underneath the intima pise ; the latter easily separates from the former. The neuroglia fibrils are pre-eminently horizontal. b) As septa passing between different sections of the white matter (posterior, lateral and anterior tracts). The so-called posterior fissure is, properly speaking, only a septum of this kind. c) As the ground-substance of the anterior and posterior nerve roots from the point of entrance into the cord. d) A layer of neuroglia of considerable thickness surrounds the epithelium lining the central canal, as the ‘ central grey nucleus ’ of Kolliker. The neuroglia fibrils run here chiefly in three different directions : some are arranged in a circular manner, others longitudinally, and still others have a radiating direction. The first and second are most numerous ; the third are prolongations of the epithelial cells themselves, these being conical cells drawn out into a fine fibril passing radially into the depth. The basis of the epithelial cells is on the free surface and is covered with fine cilia. e) A peculiar accumulation of neuroglia is found in the posterior portion of the posterior horns of the grey matter as substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. Besides these accumulations of neuroglia there is a certain difference in the distri- bution of this substance in the various parts of the white matter, it being always more abundant in the inner and outer parts of the white matter, i.e. near the grey matter and the peripheral crust, than in the parts between. B) The white matter is composed of medullated nerve fibres. They vary in size, some being broad, others of medium size, and still others fine. Each nerve fibre possesses an axis cylinder, and around this a medullary sheath. The axis cylinder possesses the same fibrillar structure as that mentioned of the axis cylinder in general. In the broad fibres and in those of medium size the medullary sheath possesses a laminated structure. There is no definite evidence of the presence of a sheath of Swann or of nerve corpuscles, as in the medullated fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves. The nerve fibres are embedded in, or separated by, neuroglia, as described above. The great bulk of the nerve fibres of the white matter run in a longitudinal direction, and are grouped as such, for each half of the cord, in the anterior, lateral and posterior tract. But the white matter contains also nerve fibres that have an oblique or even horizontal direction. Horizontal nerve fibres are present:—