372 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. viewed from the surface, stand in beautiful curved lines, converging towards the centre of the macula lutea (M. Schultze). In the fovea centralis of all layers the cones and outer nuclei only retain their position. The cones become much attenuated and extremely long. The cone-fibres are also very long and pass in an almost horizontal direction into the inner nuclear layer at the side of the fovea centralis. The inner nuclear layer, and that of the ganglion cells, is altogether wanting, and only a thin continuation of the inner granular layer is continued over the fovea centralis. 12. The Ora Serrata. The layers of the retina terminate rather abruptly, and only the radial fibres of Muller, or their inner pyramidal extremities, becoming shortened and broader and more smooth on their surface, are continued as columnar transparent epithelial-like cells (Schwalbe), each with an oval nucleus. This forms the pars ciliaris retinae, which, as stated on a previous page, can be traced over the processus ciliares up to the root of the iris. The substance of the cells is more or less distinctly longitudinally striated ; the nucleus, in many instances, contains within a definite membrane a spongy honeycombed reticulum and one large central nucleolus. 13. The Blood-vessels. The capillaries of the retina are connected with the branches of the arteria and vena centralis nervi optici. I11 the optic nerve the central blood-vessels are surrounded by a special plexus of fine nerve fibres (Krause). The larger vascular branches surround the macula lutea and send into it minute twigs. At the margin of the fovea centralis the capillaries return as loops. The arterial and venous branches are situated internally to, or within the nerve- fibre layer. The capillaries are arranged in networks with large meshes. They occur in the inner granular layer: one network near the inner nuclear layer, the other near the layer of ganglion cells; then there is a capillary network in the inner nuclear layer, and the most superficial capillaries are found in the outer granular layer. 14. The Lymphatics. His was the first to show that the blood-vessels of the retina (chiefly the veins and capillaries) are invaginatecl in lymph-spaces, perivascular lymph-spaces. According to