i S i CHAPTER XXIII. TEETH. The hard parts of a human tooth are : (a) the enamel, substantia adamantina; (b) the dentin or ivory; (c) the cement, or substantia osteoidea. The soft parts are: (i) the dental pulp ; (2) the periosteum ; and (3) the gums. a) The enamel covers the crown of the tooth. It consists of closely placed solid thin prisms, enamel prisms, extending, in a direction vertical to the surface, from this latter to the subjacent dentin : they appear hexagonal when viewed in transverse section. The prisms are arranged in bundles. These cross each other, so that on a longitudinal section of tooth alternate layers of longitudinally and transversely cut prisms are visible. Hereby the appearance of alternate light and dark stripes is produced. Besides this inequality in appearance, there are the ‘brown parallel stripes of Retzius,’ consisting of horizontal curved lines running more or less parallel with one another, often very closely placed. Their significance is not definitely ascertained, inasmuch as deposit of pigment (Hertz) or successive formation of enamel (Kolliker) is given as its cause. Each enamel prism when isolated by dilute HC1 shows regular transverse markings and varicosities, owing probably to a successive formation ot its parts (Hannover, Hertz). By continued maceration in HC1 they disintegrate into short cubical pieces (Waldeyer). The enamel consists chiefly of lime salts, phosphate and carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, and very little phosphate of magnesia ; a small percentage (1—3*5) of organic matter is also contained in it. The enamel prisms, although closely placed side by side, are nevertheless separated from one another by a very thin layer of hyaline interstitial substance. In the parts of the enamel bordering on the dentin are often found shorter or longer canals and lacunae between layers of prisms, and leading into the interglobular spaces of Czermak, situated on the surface of the dentin. A delicate cuticle (Kolliker, persistent capsule of Nasmyth) covers the outer surface of the enamel of young teeth : it is composed of a layer of non- nucleated horny scales. b) The dentin or ivory (osteodentin, Tomes) consists of the following parts : (a) a homogeneous hard ground substance; this contains, embedded in a dense reticular matrix of organic substance, lime salts similar to the ground substance of bone; (/3) long fine canals, dentinal canals, passing through the whole thickness of the dentin in a spiral F F