227 CHAPTER XXVIII. THE LIVER. The framework of the liver is composed of the capsule, the inter- and intralobular connective tissue. The capsule is fibrous-connective tissue, covered with endothelium on its free surface ; like that of other serous membranes, it consists of trabeculae of connective-tissue bundles crossing each other in various directions, and between them are the flattened branched connective-tissue corpuscles. In man the connective tissue of the capsule forms two distinct strata (Theile), an outer, containing in the matrix of fibrous-connective tissue networks of elastic fibrils, and an inner stratum, more lamellar in its structure and continuous with similar masses of connective tissue separating the lobules. The latter, viz. the interlobular tissue, or the tissue of the portal canals (Glisson’s capsule), is also more or less lamellar, the bundles of the individual lamella; running in various directions; between the lamellae are the flattened branched connective-tissue corpuscles in their respective interfascicular lymph spaces, and in very young livers in addition a few migratory cells. The interlobular connective tissue forms the supporting tissue for the blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and bile ducts. The arrangement of the interlobular tissue determines the size and shape of the lobules or acini. According to whether this tissue forms complete septa between the lobules or not, these latter appear well defined from one another (pig), or more or less confluent (man and many other mammals). In the former case the lobules are poly- gonal, more or less oblong or cubical, in the latter their outline is very irregular. The intralobular connective tissue is very delicate and scarce, it consists of: a) Flattened branched connective-tissue cells (Fleischel, Kupffer) situated between liver cells and blood capillaries. These corpuscles are continuous with each other in a network, and at the margin of the lobules also with those of the interlobular tissue. b) There is a small amount of fibrous-connective tissue around the intralobular or central vein; this (connective tissue) is a continuation of the fibrous tissue surrounding or supporting the hepatic vein. e) Minute bundles of fibrous tissue extend between the interlobular connective