38 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. mediately underneath the epithelium of the anterior surface. In the cornea of the human eye this membrane is very conspicuous on account of its thickness ; but in the cornea of the domestic animals it is of great thinness, and therefore not easily perceived. b) The posterior elastic membrane of the cornea (membrana Descemeti) ; this mem- brane is on account of its great thickness everywhere easily perceptible ; it appears quite homogeneous, but with the aid of a io per cent, solution of chloride of sodium bundles of minute fibrils can be demonstrated in it (Schweigger-Seidel). c) Similar in structure is the subendothelial hyaline layer of the human serous membranes described by Bizzozero. d) The thick homogeneous-looking membrane directly underneath the epithelium, lining the mucous membrane of the respiratory organs, especially the human nasal cavity (Heiberg), true vocal cords and trachea of man. In all these instances this subepithelial elastic membrane is without any nuclei, and contains the anastomosing branches of the lymph-passages of the epithelium and mucosa. (See chapter on Lymphatic System.) A similar thick elastic membrane is present on the outer surface of the mucosa of stomach of cat (Zeissl) ; here the membrane is perforated by numerous fibres, blood- vessels, muscles, &c., ascending from the tissue underneath into the mucosa. Elastic membranes of other organs (capsule of lens, sheath of muscle fibres, limitans interna and externa of retina, elastic membranes of Pacinian corpuscles) will be mentioned at the respective places. The elastic membranes composed of endothelial plates (basement membrane, membrania propria of glands) have been mentioned in the preceding chapters. Besides the fibrous connective tissue and the elastic tissue, there are other forms of connective tissue, in morphological respects closely related to both, although differing from them in some essential respects. a) The gelatinous tissue (Virchow) present in the foetal umbilical cord in an early stage as the so-called Wharton’s tissue, the foetal skin, the tissue of foetal tooth-sac, the tissue in the rhomboidal sinus of the cord of birds, in the electric organs of fishes, and in different localities of other fishes and especially invertebrate animals, the tissue contained in the infraorbital fossa of young rabbits, in pathological conditions (myxomatous tumours), &c. The gelatinous tissue is a transparent jelly-like substance containing in the meshes of a framework a hyaline mucous substance. The tissue varies according to the nature of the framework, this being in some instances (early stage of foetal umbilical cord or foetal skin)