141 STRUCTURE OF AORTA. (b) The media contains, between thin transverse muscular strata, thick elastic membranes; these are placed horizontally or obliquely, and are laminated, being composed of several Henle’s fenestrated membranes, and in addition to them there are networks of fine elastic fibres. In the ascending aorta and the arch there is a small inner section of the media that differs from the rest, in so far as the muscle cells are arranged in small groups, running either longitudinally or obliquely; they are separated by thick cylindrical longitudinal elastic fibres which are much branched, and in some places very close or even confluent. Between them are networks of fine elastic fibres running longi- tudinally or obliquely. This inner portion amounts in the ascending branch and the arch to about an eighth or tenth of the whole thickness of the media, and gradually passes into the outer part, the muscle cells becoming transverse, and the thick elastic fibres becoming confluent into membranes placed horizontally or obliquely. But there are groups of longitudinal muscle cells also in the outer part of the media, especially near the adventitia. The muscle cells of the aorta are much branched, flattened, and short, but varying considerably in their broad diameter. A certain amount of connective tissue, chiefly accompanying small blood-vessels, is to be found in this coat. (c) The intima of the aorta is similar in structure to that of other large trunks, except that it is thicker, and that it contains an appreciable amount of connective tissue added to it; also the subendothelial longitudinal connective-tissue membrane is well developed. In the ascending aorta and the arch the intima is distinctly laminated, the laminae being composed of elastic fibres, and between them is an appreciable amount of connective tissue, chiefly in the form of branched connective-tissue corpuscles ; the subendothelial membrane is here thickest. (d) The endothelium does not differ from that of the arterial trunks. Besides the aorta there are other arteries in man and mammals that possess longitudinal and oblique bundles of unstriped muscle fibres. According to Remak, Kolliker, F.berth, and others, the arteria lienalis, renalis, femoralis, mesenterica, axillaris, poplitea, &c., possess longitudinal muscle bundles in the adventitia, and, according to Remak and Eberth, the arteria hepatica, lienalis, cruralis, and mesen- terica possess them also in the media. This is, however, denied by Bresgen : according to this observer there are no longitudinal muscles in the mesenterica inferior lienalis, gastro-duodenalis, brachialis, radialis, and cruralis. Bardeleben, on the other hand, maintains an inner longitudinal muscle coat for all large and middle-sized arteries.