i ;o ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. between interfascicular spaces or sinuses lined by a complete endothelium, and conse- quently representing a lymphatic capillary, and small irregular lacunae lined only on one side by a branched connective-tissue cell. 4. As has been mentioned in a former chapter, the wall of capillary blood-vessels does not present any obstacle to the passage of formed particles (blood-corpuscles or pigment). This takes place through the interstitial substance (stigmata) acting as cement between the endothelial plates constituting the wall of the capillary. It has also been mentioned that the connective-tissue corpuscles of the surrounding tissue are connected with the wall of the capillaries : this connection consists in a continuity of the interstitial albuminous cement-substance of the endothelial wall with the same albuminous substance in which is em- bedded, as above stated, the lymph canalicular system or the connective-tissue corpuscles respectively. Thus fluid or formed matter escaping from the blood-vessel (through the interstitial substance) passes into the lymph-canalicular system (Arnold, Foa), lined by the connective:tissue corpuscles, and from here freely into the capillary lymphatics. And this passage of plasma from the capillary blood-vessels through the lymph-rootlets into the lymphatic capillaries represents the normal stream that uniformly percolates the tissues. This stream is caused, in the first place, by the difference of pressure that exists in the capillary blood-vessels and in the lymphatics, in the former being positive, in the latter negative; and in the second place, by the peculiar distribution of the blood and lymph- capillaries, the former holding, as it were, the centre of a definite area, while the latter belong to its periphery (v. Recklinghausen), and hence the tendency of the plasma to uniformly percolate the tissue intervening between the two systems of vessels. The passage of formed matter, such as colourless and coloured blood-corpuscles or pigment matter, from the blood-vessels, into the lymph-canalicular system, and hence into the lymphatics, is well illustrated in inflammation (Cohnheim, Hering, Arnold, Klein, and others), and in the experiments of Klein, Arnold, Ktittner, and others, where pigment matter (Berlin blue or indigo sulphate of sodium) introduced into the organism of the living guinea-pig, rabbit, or frog can be easily traced through the lymph-canalicular system into the lymphatics. 5. The lymphatics of the serous membranes. The endothelium covering the free surface of the serous membranes has been minutely described in all its details in Chapter III.; and likewise the connective-tissue matrix and its cells in Chapter IV. Bizzozero showed in the serous membranes of man a thick membranapropria, ‘limiting membrane,’ separating the endothelium from the ground substance. Networks of blood capillaries occur in all parts of the serous membranes, especially in those parts that contain patches, nodules, or cords of adenoid tissue or fat tissue. The sympathetic nerves mentioned in a former chapter split up into minute