HYALINE CARTILAGE. 49 On macerating hyaline cartilage in acids, the outlines of these blocks become occasionally’ discernible. It has been shown (Tillmanns, Baber) that in the ground-substance of some adult hyaline cartilages (articular cartilage, cartilage of ribs) bundles of exceedingly minute fibrils can be demonstrated. Hyaline cartilages differ amongst each other in the distribution of the hyaline ground-substance around the cells. Either the cells are surrounded by almost equal- sized masses of ground-substance as in hyaline cartilage of trachea and larynx of man and mammals, sternal cartilage of newt, &c. ; or the distribution of ground-substance is less regular, as in some articular cartilages, being present around the cells in some parts in a larger amount than in others. Again, in some parts of one and the same cartilage, the cells are placed much more closely, the hyaline ground-substance being much less abundant, than in others; comparing, for instance, the parts near the edge or free surface of a cartilage with the deeper parts, we notice that the cells lie much closer together in the former than in the latter. When the cells are so closely placed together that hardly any, or at any rate no conspicuous amount of, hyaline ground-substance is to be noticed, the cartilage is called parenchymatous cartilage; embryonal cartilage at an early stage, the marginal parts of some adult cartilages, and certain other cartilages are of this nature. In the fresh and living state the cartilage cells are filling up almost entirely their respective lacunae, but after death, and especially after reagents, they shrink away from their wall in a greater or lesser degree, and are converted into irregular-shaped, angular or even star-shaped masses. Under these circumstances a delicate homogeneous limiting membrane becomes visible, forming the boundary between the lacuna and the hyaline ground-substance. In growing cartilage this limiting membrane becomes gradually thickened and represents a special layer of hyaline substance formed from the periphery of the cell-substance. In such cartilage we therefore distinguish two different parts of the hyaline ground-substance, viz. one portion that is the general matrix, and another that forms a thinner or thicker capsule directly around the cartilage cells (Kolliker). The former is older than the latter, this being more recently formed. In growing cartilage the cells undergo division : the cell that is to divide enlarges, its nucleus divides—cartilage cells with two nuclei; then the cell-substance divides, and thus two daughter-cells are formed. In some cartilages the two daughter-cells very soon give origin to a new genera- tion, thus forming a group of four cells; or to two generations successively, thus forming a group of eight cells ; in others the first two daughter-cells, before again dividing, become separated by a considerable amount of hyaline matrix derived from them.