INTERMEDIARY CARTILAGE. 69 of the cartilage is here calcified (stained deeply in logwood). Numerous osteoblasts cover the trabeculae in the region d, and on some of these there are already indications of (pink) osseous substance. e) Section through part of a cartilage-channel, containing cellulo-vascular tissue derived from the perichondrium (periosteum) as a periostal process of Virchow; see a former page. PLATE XIII. Figures V. VI. and VII. drawn under a magnifying power of about 350; fig. VIII. under one of about 450. All figures represent preparations of bone that had been macerated in chromic acid, and hereby deprived of its inorganic matter. Fig. V. From a transverse section through the shaft of tibia of foetal kitten, stained first in carmine and then in haematoxylin ; from a similar preparation as fig. I. of the previous plate. a) Fibrous layer of periosteum. I) Osteogenetic layer of periosteum, containing nucleated cells in a plexus of fibres. Towards the depth the cells become larger in size, and some of them more or less drawn out in processes. These cells are the osteoblasts, in the act of forming osseous substance. c) Spongy bone formed by the periosteum, periostal bone. In its matrix, stained pink, are contained the branched bone corpuscles. The meshes of this bone, viz. the Haversian spaces, contain numerous osteoblasts. d) Endochondral formation of bone. The unabsorbed calcified cartilage trabeculae (stained blue) become gradually covered with thinner or thicker laminae of osseous substance (stained pink), and with numerous osteoblasts. In one marrow cavity is shown a blood-vessel; all the marrow cavities contain numerous cells. e) Distinct boundary between the endochondral and periostal bone. Fig. VI. From a longitudinal section of femur of rabbit, through the region in which the extremity of the shaft is in contact with the intermediary cartilage. The vessels of the bone had been injected with Berlin-blue, and the section had been stained first in carmine, then in haematoxylin. This figure illustrates the growth in length cf the shaft of a long bone. a) Intermediary cartilage. The cartilage cells are somewhat flattened and ar- ranged in characteristic longitudinal rows.