ABSORPTION BY THE LYMPHATICS OF THE LUNG. 247 lymphatics of the interlobular connective tissue (Knauff, Wittich, Buhl, Rindfleisch, and others). Also other particles (dust of every description, septic matter, contagious particles, etc.) may penetrate into the lymph-canalicular system, either as such—viz. merely in consequence of the above suction—or they are carried there by lymphoid cells (inflammatory products), which had taken them up previously (see Chapter I.). Just as much as the inspiratory movement of the lung aids absorption, so the expiratory movement produces a contraction of the lymphatics, and therefore a pro- gression of the contents of the latter towards the bronchial glands. PLATE XXXVI. Fig. I. From a longitudinal section through the innermost part of the mucous mem- brane of the trachea of a child. Magnifying power about 300. a. Stratified columnar epithelium ; the superficial conical cells are ciliated. b. Basement membrane, perforated by fine vertical canals of the lymph-canalicular system underneath. c. The inner section of the mucosa, containing capillary blood-vessels. d. The layer of longitudinal elastic fibres connected into a network. e. First section of the submucous tissue with large vessels. Fig. II. From a vertical section through the stratified pavement epithelium cover- ing the mucous membrane of the posterior surface of the epiglottis of a child. Magnify- ing power about 300. s. Free surface. d. Inner surface attached to the mucosa. Fig. III. From a section through a mucous gland of epiglottis of child, showing gland tubes cut in various directions. Magnifying power about 450. a. A gland tube cut transversely; the epithelium lining it is in a state of rest. b. A similar tube, whose epithelium is in a state of secretion. c. A tube cut obliquely ; in the lower part the epithelium is in a state of rest, in the upper in a state of secretion. Fig. IV. From a transverse section through the epiglottis of a child. Magnifying power about 45. a. The stratified pavement epithelium of the posterioi surface. b. The mucous membrane containing mucous glands. c. The elastic cartilage. d. The mucous glands of the anterior surface. In this instance a duct is seen to pass through the posterior mucous membrane.