79 MUSCLE FIBRES OF THE HEART. repeatedly branched, are irregular in shape and size, according to whether the transverse section is taken from a part of the fibre at the point of branching or from a part above or below it. (3) The muscle corpuscles of the fibres of the heart are invariably situated in or about the centre of the fibres (Donders); the number of the muscle corpuscles is relatively great, and the chances therefore are that in a transverse section the greater majority of fibres are cut through the muscle corpuscle. Corresponding to the individual muscle corpuscles the fibres appear, under certain conditions, subdivided into oblong cylin- drical blocks (Aeby, Eberth, and others), straight at their ends, or divided according to whether they belong to an undivided or dividing portion of a fibre. Muscle fibres have only a limited length ; they terminate or originate respectively either within the bundle (Rollett) or in a tendon. In the first case, the contents of the fibre terminate abruptly in a conical shape, and the sarcolemma, having collected into a fine filamentous structure, loses itself in the connective tissue separating the muscle fibres. In the second case, a muscle fibre passes into a bundle of fine connective-tissue fibrils in either of two ways : (a) the contents of a fibre terminate conically, and the sarco- lemma appears to pass on a tendon bundle of connective-tissue fibrils, or (b) the muscular contents themselves seem to be continued, apparently without interruption, into the ten- don bundle. The muscle fibres near their termination or origin respectively become gradually reduced in diaineter, hence their shape is that of a spindle (Herzig, Biesiadecki, Krause, Weismann, and others). In a given transverse section through a bundle of striped muscle fibres we therefore find the muscle fibres of various diameters, some two and three times as thick as others ; this is explained by the fibres being spindle-shaped, thickest in the middle parts, and tapering towards the termination. According to Kolliker, in small muscles, as in the small muscles of the extremities of bat, muscles of frog, all individual fibres extend the whole length of the muscle; but in large muscles, according to Herzig, Krause, and others, the length of the fibres does not exceed to 2 inches. At an early stage of embryonal life elongated spindle-shaped cells are transformed into striped muscle fibres, each such cell giving origin to a muscle fibre (Remak, Weis- mann, Kolliker, and others). These spindle-shaped cells, at first thin and small, enlarge to a very great extent, and their nucleus undergoes repeated division. The cell-substance, beginning from the periphery, becomes differentiated into the striate muscle substance, viz. sarcous elements and interstitial substance (Remak, Weismann, Fredericq, and others). What remains of the original protoplasm around the nuclei—more distant from each other as development proceeds—represents a muscle corpuscle. The sarco- lemma is developed from nucleated cells different from the muscle corpuscles (Calberla,