SIMPLE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. *59 other by fibrous connective tissue, which together with the capsule form the framework of the gland. This will be described more minutely in the next chapter. Similar lymph-follicles, singly or in groups, or as diffuse masses of adenoid tissue, occur in the mucous membrane covering the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in the walls of the ventriculus Morgagni of the larynx, and in the conjunctiva. The mucosa of the pyloric end of the stomach possesses lymph-follicles, either singly or in groups, as the so-called glandulae lenticulares. The small intestine contains lymph-follicles, either singly as solitary, or in smaller or larger groups, as agminated glands. In both cases they are situated with their chief portion, viz. the body of the follicles, in the submucous tissue ; with the rest they are pushed through the muscularis mucosae into the mucosa. In the agminated glands each individual follicle reaches the inner free surface of the intestine, and like this is covered with columnar epithelium. This end represents the summit, the opposite the basis of the follicle. The epithelium, covering the summit of the follicles, is in many parts altered by the growth of the subjacent adenoid tissue into it, the individual epithelial cells giving way before the growing reticulum and lymph-corpuscles (Watney). In consequence of the above arrangement of the follicles of the agminated glands, the mucosa, containing Lieberktihn’s crypts, and covered with villi, is reduced to minute folds between the summits of the follicles. The mucous membrane appears at the same time much thicker than the surrounding parts, and is conspicuous as a patch somewhat projecting over the general surface. Such a patch is called a Peyer’s patch. In the Peyer’s patches the follicles are arranged in a single stratum, and are confluent with their middle portion, but separate at the summit and basis. The number of follicles contained in a Peyerls patch varies greatly, and hence also the size of the latter. Their numbers and sizes increase towards the ileo-cEecal valve ; in carnivorous animals the mucous membrane of the lower part of the ileum is one single large Peyer’s patch. In the large intestine we meet with single lymph-follicles which are considerably larger than the solitary glands of the small intestine; they are also situated with their body in the submucous tissue ; occasionally they are pushed through the muscu- laris mucosae and penetrate into the mucosa. In the rabbit the mucous membrane of the caecum is filled with lymph-follicles, which possess the same relation to one another and to the mucosa as those in the Peyer’s patches : in fact, the mucous membrane is a Peyer’s patch with the difference that there are no villi. The adenoid tissue of the lymph-follicles of the small and large intestine passes at the sides below their (follicles) summits, directly into the tissue of the mucosa, both being in all respects similar in structure.