35 CHAPTER V. FIBROUS-CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The fibrous-connective tissue or white fibrous tissue has a very great distribution, as has been mentioned in the preceding chapter. It consists of more or less cylindrical bundles of different sizes; these, being arranged in smaller or larger groups, form broader or narrower trabeculae. The bundles are generally more or less wavy, but this depends in a great measure on the state of contraction or expansion of the respective tissue of which they form part. Each bundle is composed of minute homogeneous fibrils, elementary fibrils. These are held together, within the bundle, by an albu- minous and homogeneous cement-substance. By dissolving this the fibrils become distinct and isolated; permanganate of potash (Rollett), lime-water or baryta water, especially a 10 per cent, solution of chloride of sodium (Schweigger-Seidel), are used for this purpose. The elementary fibrils swell up to a great extent in acids and alkalies, and after boiling. Hereby the bundles lose their fibrillar appearance and become more homo- geneous. This effect is produced on account of the fibrils containing a substance which by boiling and dilute acids is converted into glutin or gelatin. In many connective-tissue organs, as in tendon, fascia, subcutaneous tissue, sub- arachnoidal tissue, &c., the bundles are surrounded by a more or less complete hyaline elastic sheath. When therefore these bundles are treated with acids, i.e. are made to swell up, they show more or less numerous annular constrictions. It has been mentioned in the preceding chapter that in many instances the con- nective-tissue bundles branch and anastomose. The branching means a division of a large group of fibrils into smaller groups, but not a division of the elementary fibrils; the anastomosing is due to an aggregation of two or more small bundles into one, but not to an anastomosis of the primitive fibrils. (See fig. XV. of Plate VIII.) The fibrous bundles of connective tissue are arranged in various ways : a) As fenestrated membranes, in the omentum and pleura mediastini of mammals, ligamentum pectinatum iridis, ligamentum denticulatum of spinal cord and the subarachnoidal tissue ; here the bundles form lamellar expansions com- posed of larger or smaller trabeculae, which branch and again reunite with one another. G