231 STRUCTURE OF GALL BLADDER. of loose connective tissue with numerous capillary blood-vessels and lined with a single layer of beautiful columnar epithelium; in the mucous membrane are shorter or longer tubular mucous glands (Riess, Kolliker). The larger the duct the longer these glands. Outside the mucous membrane are unstriped muscle cells (Henle), chiefly arranged as circular bundles. The gall bladder is similar in structure to the large hepatic ducts, except that the mucous membrane is much thicker and possessed of folds and villous projections ; the muscle coat is thick and surrounded by a considerable amount of connective tissue which is continuous with the most external layer, viz. the peritoneum. The vascular supply to the wall of the gall bladder is very rich, the capillary blood-vessels forming a very dense network underneath the single layer of fine columnar epithelial cells lining the inner cavity. The inner portion of the mucous membrane contains an irregular network of fine lymphatic vessels (Deutsch). These vessels lead into a network of lymphatic trunks possessed of valves and belonging to the outer part of the wall of the gall bladder, viz. to the serous covering. PLATE XXXIV. Fig. I. From a vertical section through a fold of the mucous membrane of jejunum of dog. Magnifying power about 45. c. Mucosa containing the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; the structure of the villi is only indicated. m. Muscularis mucosae ; here a single (longitudinal) layer. Submucous tissue containing the large vessels. Fig. II. Part of a crypt of Lieberktihn, showing the septa extending from the membrana propria between the lining epithelial cells ; these latter are only just indicated. The lower part of the crypt is cut longitudinally, the upper obliquely. Magnifying power about 350. Fig. III. Vertical section through the end of stomach and commencement of duodenum of dog. Magnifying power about 45. 1 and 2. End of the stomach. 3. The' commencement of the duodenum. 1. Shows the ordinary structure of the pyloric end, as illustrated in Plate XXXIII., fig. XXI. 2. The transition is shown of the pyloric glands into Brunner’s glands ; the muscu- laris mucosae is here interrupted. This section (2) is somewhat longer in reality than here shown. Its length has been reduced on account of want of space. N N