268 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XXXI. THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Testis and Epididymis of Man and Mammals. The framework.—The capsule of the testis consists of an external and internal fibrous coat. The external coat, the tunica adnata, or the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis propria, is a serous membrane, and consequently is a dense connective-tissue feltwork, with numerous elastic fibrils connected into a network. It is supplied with a network of capillaries and numerous nerve fibrils arranged in a plexus. On its outer or free surface it is covered with a single layer of flattened endothelial plates. Minute villi projecting from the surface contain, according to the state of development, a greater or smaller amount of connective-tissue ; they are continuous with the ground membrane and are covered with germinating endothelial cells (see Chapter III.). The internal coat, or the tunica albuginea, is of lamellar structure, the lamellae being composed of bundles of fibrous connective-tissue with the corresponding flattened connective-tissue cells. Its thickness increases towards the posterior margin of the testis, in which place, in the human organ, there exists a considerable accumulation of it, as the corpus Highmori, or the mediastinum testis. As shown by Messing, the testis of the dog, cat, bull, pig, sheep, rabbit, hare, guinea pig, See., possesses a central corpus Highmori ; that of the mole, hedgehog, and bat a peripheral one; the rat and mouse have no corpus Highmori. Numerous septa extend from the sides and front between the albuginea and the corpus Highmori ; these septa are of the same structure as the albuginea and the corpus Highmori. Unstriped muscular fibres are mentioned by Kolliker as present in them. A dense plexus of lymphatics, being the efferent vessels, is contained in the capsule of the testis, most vessels being situated between the outer and inner coat. The inner coat possesses also a rich network of blood-vessels. The connective-tissue septa are continuous with the connective-tissue existing between the seminal tubules, and are the carriers of the blood-vessels. The intertubular or interstitial connective-tissue, which has been carefully studied by Mihalkovics, in the confirmation of whose observations I join Gerster, has a conspicuously lamellar structure ; each lamella consists of: (<?) an endothelial membrane, that is, a hyaline membrane