21 6 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. In Chapter XXII. it has been mentioned that absorption by the epithelium in general takes place through the interstitial cement substance, whence the fluid or formed matter passes into the lymph-canalicular system of the tissue underneath, and from there enters the lymphatic vessels. The same holds good for the epithelium covering the villi of the small intestine with reference to the absorption of chyle : for the chyle globules travel, not through the substance of the epithelial cells themselves, but through the interstitial substance, and hence through the reticulum of the matrix of the villus, and finally into the chyle vessels. These statements are based on observations of Dr. Watney, made under my direction. Dr. Watney’s paper is published in the ‘Philosophical Transactions,’ 1876.—E. K. According to a generally received doctrine, the chyle globules are absorbed by the epithelial cells themselves, whence they pass into the tissue of the villus, and hence into the chyle vessel or vessels situated in the centre of the villus. This doctrine assumes that the substance of the epithelial cells becomes filled with the chyle globules, and further that it (the cell substance) is in direct continuity with the tissue underneath ; and, indeed, the literature on this subject is rich in assertions maintaining these two points, although there are equally numerous observers who deny them both. As mentioned above, the substance of the epithelial cells is concerned in the mucous secretion, not in absorption, which is performed by the interstitial substance, and this latter (interstitial substance) and not the former (epithelial cells) is connected with the tissue underneath. Amongst those who in more recent times asserted the absorption of chyle globules by the epithelial cells themselves and the passage from here into the tissue underneath may be cited Thanhoffer, who asserts that the chyle globules are taken up by the epi- thelial cells (of frog’s small intestine) in virtue of active movement, dependent solely on the nervous system. This observer says the epithelial cells push out from their free surface minute processes, on and between which the chyle globules are caught, and then withdrawing the former also the latter are brought into the interior of the cell. By a repetition of this process the cells become gradually filled with chyle granules. In an equally splendid manner the cells are said to discharge the chyle globules into the tissue underneath, for each epithelial cell is possessed of two processes : one is in connection with the part of the tissue of the villus through which the chyle globules have to travel, and the other with a nerve fibril; and thus the control by the nervous system of the whole proceeding finds a ready explanation. As regards mammalian animals Thanhoffer’s view is,no doubt, erroneous. With reference to the special influence of the nervous system on the absorption of chyle, this is an assumption which for its support requires more evidence by facts than is at present available ; but this much must be said, that the whole process can be easily explained on the same simple principles as ab-