185 DEVELOPMENT OF DENTIN. convince myself of the correctness of the now (since Waldeyer) generally accepted theory according to which the peripheral part of the cell-substance of the odontoblasts is trans- formed into the matrix of the dentin, while the central part persists as the dentinal fibre ; from my observations I am on the contrary led to assume that the superficial layer of cells, or odontoblasts proper, yields only the dentinal matrix, while the dentinal fibres are derived from the processes of the cells of the deeper layer, that is, of the cells wedged in between the odontoblasts just referred to. Thus, while the continued growth of the outer extremity of the odontoblasts yields new layers of dentinal matrix, that of the processes of the deeper layer of cells causes the elongation of the dentinal fibres, and enables these to keep pace with the growth of the matrix. Owing to the growth of the tooth sack over the enamel cap, the connection of the latter with the surface epithelium becomes gradually severed. The enamel cap being a duplicature of stratified epithelium, its innermost cells, viz. those next to the tooth papillse, as well as the outermost cells, viz. those next to the tooth sack, are columnar cells, corresponding to the deepest cells of the surface epithelium. Next to the inner and outer cells are polyhedral cells, and towards the middle of the enamel cap we find more or less flattened epithelial cells. The tooth sack, where it is in contact with the upper greater half of the enamel cap, extends as very regular small papillae into the outer stratum of the epithelium of the latter. The enamel cap is limited both on its inner and outer surface by a membrana propria (Huxley, Kolliker). The next change that takes place in this enamel cap is a separation into an inner and outer membrane, owing to the transformation of the aforesaid middle strata of flattened epithelial cells into a transparent tissue, middle membrane; the matrix of this is a honeycomb of membranous structures containing oval flattened nuclei, its meshes are relatively larger—much larger than those of the gelatinous tissue of the tooth papilla—and contain a hyaline interstitial substance. No vessels are present in this middle membrane. This change in the middle membrane is due to an accumulation of fluid in the inter- stitial substance between the epithelial cells ; hereby these latter are gradually separated from one another and compressed into membranous structures, which are connected into a honeycomb. It is, therefore, not quite correct to compare this middle membrane of honeycombed tissue with the gelatinous connective tissue of the tooth sack or the tooth papilla. The inner membrane is composed (a) of a layer of beautiful columnar epi- thelial cells in contact with the dentin, or, if this is not formed yet, with the tooth