ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 394 above the internal surface as numerous papillary projections (Riidinger) of various sizes and composed of a hyaline or slightly fibrillar tissue. These projections are absent next to the bone (Riidinger, Utz). A single layer of flattened nucleated epithelial cells covers the inner free surface. In the whole extent of the nerve-entrance into the utricle, saccule, and the am- pulla, the wall of these projects into the interior as a peculiar thickening known as the macula acustica in the utricle and saccule and as the crista acustica in the ampullae (M. Schultze). The branches of the nervus vestibuli are in connection with ganglionic masses, and having passed through the tunica propria reach the macula or crista acustica respec- tively. Here they run in small bundles separated by spindle-shaped and branched cells ; they ascend towards the surface. Before they reach the basement membrane, at any rate in the macula acustica of the guinea-pig, they have to pass through a layer of small cells with oval nuclei. This layer is of considerable thickness and may be appropriately called the nuclear layer; in it the medullated nerve fibres form plexuses in a vertical direction. (See fig. VII. of Plate XLV.) The individual nerve fibres remain medullated up to the basement membrane, situated immediately underneath the epithelium ; they lose their medullary sheath when perforating the basement membrane—in some places already before—and their axis- cylinders split up into a number of fine fibrils connected into a network ; this network lies within the epithelium of the macula and crista. The epithelium is here pigmented, and of a slightly yellowish tint, much thickened, and consisting, as shown by M. Schultze, of a superficial layer of conical or cylindrical epithelial cells, between which are situated spindle-shaped sensory cells with a spherical or oval nucleus. Each of the sensory cells possesses an outer thick process extending to the free surface and projecting as a long stiff pointed hair or rod, the acoustic hair, into the endolymph (M. Schultze, Odenius, Kolliker, Hasse, and others) ; the inner process is very thin and filamentous, and is con- nected with the fine nerve-fibrils of the intraepithelial network, just mentioned. In the guinea-pig I find also in the peripheral portions of the macula acustica a deep layer of inverted conical cells, each with an oval nucleus ; these cells are with their basis closely attached to the basement membrane. Max Schultze has described these cells and Riidinger found them also in the peripheral parts of the crista acustica. Riidinger maintains that the fine nerve fibrils pass simply through the spindle-shaped cell, and terminate as the acoustic hairs, being at the same time connected with the nucleus ; but Retzius states that in fishes only the first-named conical or cylindrical epithelial cells are connected centrally with the nerve fibrils, while peripherally they give off the