*37 CHAPTER XIX. BLOOD-VESSELS. i. Capillary Blood-Vessels. The smallest and at the same time the simplest vessels are the capillaries, being minute tubes the wall of which is a thin elastic endothelial membrane, that is, a single layer of nucleated cell-plates (Hoyer, Auerbach, Eberth, Aeby, and others). Like other endothelial membranes, its individual cells are united by an albuminous interstitial cement-substance, which in silver-stained specimens appears as dark lines separating the cells. The shape of the cells is more or less elongated, with pointed extremities, and their outline smooth or sinuous. This depends, however, in a certain measure, on the state of distension or contraction of the capillary. Their substance is in the fresh state hyaline, but under certain conditions shows, just like the endothelial cells of serous membranes, a hyaline ground-plate, and in it a network of fibrils. Each cell possesses an oval flat nucleus, situated either about the middle of the cell or near one extremity ; the nucleus contains within a well-defined membrane an intra- nuclear network (Flemming, Klein); in adult capillaries this intranuclear network is uniform and does not contain any thickenings or nucleoli. When capillaries are abnormally distended, as in inflammation, the interstitial cement-substance is liable to give way in many places ; in consequence of this, minute openings appear (stigmata, Arnold), which become gradually enlarged into stomata. When injecting such vessels, an escape of injection matter (Winiwarter) may take place through these openings. They are likewise probably the places where, under inflam- matory conditions, diapedesis of coloured (Strieker) and emigration of colourless corpuscles (Cohnheim) into the surrounding tissue occurs. If capillary vessels, through which emigration of colourless blood-corpuscles has been going on, be stained with nitrate of silver, it is seen that the emigration is limited to the interstitial cement-substance of the endothelial wall (Purves). Besides the endothelial wall, the (larger) capillaries in some localities possess a special outer sheath, or adventitia, which is a network of branched connective-tissue cells (hyaloidea of frog, chorioidea of mammals, Ivanoff, Eberth, and others), or a complete endothelial membrane (pia mater of brain and cord, Key and Retzius; retina, z