116 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The ganglion cell in the fresh and unaltered state generally completely fills the space of its capsule, so that its surface is almost in immediate contact with the above cell-lining of the capsule (Key and Retzius, MacCarthy). After shrinking, the ganglion cell withdraws from the capsule to a greater or lesser extent ; hereby the ganglion cell draws away part of the substance of the capsular cells, and appears then as if possessed of many processes (Key and Retzius). Max Schultze, Arndt, and others have misinterpreted these processes for nerve processes. The axis-cylinder process of the ganglion cells of the cerebro-spinal ganglia of man and mammals, occasionally still within the capsule, but generally after having left the cell, becomes twisted and convoluted, sometimes in a very complex manner (glomerulus of Key and Retzius), but sooner or later it is ensheathed in a medul- lary sheath of the same structure as in ordinary nerves. Outside this is a hyaline sheath of Schwann, being the direct continuation of the hyaline capsule of the ganglion cell. The medullated nerve fibre is now complete even to the nodes of Ranvier, and the nerve corpuscles, viz. the isolated nucleated cells placed at intervals on the inner side of the sheath of Schwann. The nerve corpuscles are the direct continuations of the cells lining the capsule of the ganglion cells. In the ganglion cells of rabbit Ranvier has pointed out an interesting relation to exist, viz. that at a certain distance from the ganglion cell, the axis-cylinder process becomes thicker and converted into a medullated nerve fibre, and that this latter shows a T-shaped division, taking place generally at the first node of Ranvier. Key and Retzius confirmed this, but met it only in a limited number of nerve fibres, and are therefore disinclined to ascribe to it a character of general importance. In a few cases the axis-cylinder process does not obtain a medullary sheath, but only the hyaline sheath of Schwann, and is therefore converted into a non-medullated nerve fibre. The ganglion cells of the cerebro-spinal ganglia of amphibian animals and fishes differ in no essential point from those of mammals. Next to the ganglia proper of fishes, there are in the nerve trunks isolated ganglion cells differing in many respects from the ordinary cerebro-spinal ganglion cells. These cells are bipolar, possessing at each pole an axis-cylinder process (Bidder, Volkmann, Max Schultze, and others), which is continuous with the axis cylinder of a medullated nerve fibre. On the inside of the capsule of the cell there are only a few nucleated cells. The ganglion cells of the cerebro-spinal ganglia of petromyzon Planeri are, according to Langerhans, Stannius, Key and Retzius, bipolar ; one axis-cylinder process is directed towards the periphery, and is broader than the other, which is directed towards