ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 150 confluence elastic membranes separating the unstriped muscle cells ; these have become arranged transversely. Fig. II. Lower part of a minute artery viewed in longitudinal (optical) section ; e. to a. represents the thickness of the wall seen in profile. e. Nucleated endothelial membrane, lining the lumen of the vessel, seen in profile. In the lumen appear several faint oval nuclei ; these are the nuclei of the endothelium looked at from above. i. Very thin elastic intima. m. Muscle coat or media; the unstriped muscle cells, being arranged circularly, are here seen as if cut transversely. a. Nucleated membrane representing the adventitia. Fig. III. Transverse section through the carotis of dog. e. Lining endothelial membrane seen in profile. i. Elastic intima. The subendothelial connective-tissue layer is too delicate to be seen in a transverse section. in. Media, containing bright wavy elastic membranes, viewed here in profile, separating the circular bundles of unstriped muscle cells, of which only the staff- shaped nuclei are here shown. The networks of fine elastic fibrils, passing from one elastic membrane to another, are not represented here. a. Adventitia, consisting of bundles of connective tissue indicated by a yellowish- brown tint; between the bundles are seen the deeply stained nuclei of connective-tissue corpuscles and bright cylindrical elastic fibres which, running longitudinally, are here represented in transverse section. Their number is greatest towards the media. Between the adventitia and media is a wavy elastic membrane, Henle’s elastica externa. Fig. IV. Transverse section through a large branch of the inferior mesenteric artery of pig. e. Endothelial membrane. i. Elastic intima. The subendothelial connective-tissue layer being exceedingly thin, is not seen. in. Muscular media, containing only a few of the bright wavy elastic membranes ; the network of fine fibrils separating the bundles of muscle cells are not represented. A distinct elastica externa divides the media from the connective-tissue adventitia#., which has the same structure as that in the previous figure. Fig. V. Transverse section through a small artery and vein of the mucous mem- brane of the epiglottis of a child. A. Artery, showing the lining nucleated endothelium ; the vessel being contracted,