RELATION OF GANGLION CELLS TO NERVE FIBRES. 97 indirectly) into the grey matter undergo repeated division while in the latter, and Gerlach has shown that their ultimate branchlets anastomose with the above network. This network, which is known as Gerlach’s nerve network, must therefore be regarded as composed of minute or primitive nerve fibrils. The nerve network surrounding the central grey nucleus of Kolliker is less dense than in other parts. Now, the branched processes of all ganglion cells of the grey matter attach themselves to Gerlach’s nerve network, and there exists therefore an essential difference between the ganglion cells of the anterior and posterior horns (Gerlach) ; the former are connected, on the one hand, with Gerlach’s nerve network, on the other hand they pass directly into a medullated nerve fibre of the anterior nerve root; the latter are not directly connected with any nerve fibres, but anastomose with them only indirectly, viz. through Gerlach’s nerve network. b) We have mentioned above that the axis-cylinder processes of the ganglion cells of the anterior horns pass through the latter as medullated nerve fibres, and enter the anterior nerve roots. But there are other nerve fibres that pass from the anterior nerve roots into the anterior horns without however belonging to any ganglion cells, viz. nerve fibres which enter the lateral tracts of the white matter, and pursue their course in this latter towards the brain as longitudinal fibres (Kolliker). c) Nerve fibres that originate in Gerlach’s nerve network, chiefly of the outer portions of the grey matter, and having entered the lateral tracts of the white matter of the same side, pursue their course towards the brain as longitudinal nerve fibres. d) Similar fibres originating in Gerlach’s nerve network of the anterior horns pass (through the anterior white commissure) into the anterior tracts of the white matter of the opposite side. e) Bundles of fine nerve fibres run horizontally from one column of the grey matter to the other, in front as anterior grey commissure, behind as posterior grey commissure. f) Numerous nerve fibres pass in a horizontal direction through the anterior portion of the posterior horns ; they branch very repeatedly (Gerlach). g) A large bundle of nerve fibres runs in a longitudinal direction and occupies about the middle of the posterior horns. This bundle receives fibres from the posterior tract of the white matter as well as from the posterior nerve root. h) In the dorsal region there exist bundles of fine nerve fibres which originate from Clarke’s column of ganglion cells. These bundles, according to Gerlach, are three as a rule, viz. one running backwards, and two crossing each other, and passing in an outward direction.