HORIZONTAL NERVE FIBRES OF CORD. 95 a) In the anterior commissure, i.e. at the bottom of the anterior fissure. The anterior commissure is composed merely of medullated nerve fibres that pass from the grey matter of the anterior horns of one side into the white matter of the anterior tract of the opposite side (Gerlach). b) Medullated nerve fibres emerge from the sides of the grey matter of the anterior horns, and after a short horizontal course enter the white matter of the lateral tracts. c) Similarly nerve fibres emerge from the grey matter of the posterior horns, and after a longer or shorter horizontal course enter the white matter of the posterior tracts (Gerlach). It is probable that they leave the posterior tracts again as the nerve fibres of the posterior nerve roots. d) The fibres of the posterior nerve roots pass into the grey matter of the posterior horns as horizontal fibres, either directly, as the lateral portion of the nerve roots, or indirectly, viz. by first entering the white matter of the posterior tract and running in it in a longitudinal direction upwards or downwards for a longer or shorter distance ; this is the median portion of the posterior nerve roots. The medullated nerve fibres of the anterior nerve roots pass in an oblique direction from the grey matter of the anterior horns through the white matter. The amount of white matter gradually increases towards the medulla oblongata. C) The grey matter occupies the central part of the cord in the well-known shape of an H, of which we distinguish the lateral parts or columns from the median part containing the central canal and the ‘ central grey nucleus ’ of Kolliker surrounding it. Between this and the anterior fissure lies the anterior grey commissure, and in front of this the anterior white commissure ; behind the central grey nucleus lies the posterior commissure. The columns consist of an anterior, middle and posterior part, the former (viz. anterior) representing the anterior, the latter (viz. posterior) the posterior horn. The breadth and depth of the different parts of the grey matter vary in a definite manner in the different sections of the cord. The substance of each column of grey matter contains, in a matrix of neuroglia very similar in character to that of the white matter, (i) ganglion cells, and (2) nerve fibres. 1) The ganglion cells are arranged more or less distinctly in groups. Thus they form three groups in the anterior horn : (a) an anterior, (6) a lateral, and (e) an inner group ; the ganglion cells of the lateral group are larger than those of the anterior, and these again larger than those of the inner group. In the dorsal region there is a group of large ganglion cells situated in the middle part of the column near the posterior commissure ; they represent Clarke’s column (Lockhart Clarke).