443 INDIRECT DIVISION OF NUCLEI radiate towards the centre, but their members still remain connected at the periphery. This separation proceeds gradually so far that instead of a flat wreath, as previously, we obtain a large oval or spherical form, at each of the two poles of which the threads form single loops, but in the equator of this form the threads of the two hemispheres pass into each other. A form of this phase is naturally much larger in bulk than many of the previous ones. Gradually the connection of the threads is severed in the equator, first in the peri- pheral parts, then also in the centre, and we obtain then two separate stars or the Dyaster. In those cases in which the wreath changes into a monaster, the loops of this latter, compressed into the nuclear plate, also gradually separate into two planes, and they become further apart, until a form is reached which is similar to the above Dyaster, viz. a spherical or oval form with two poles, each of which forms the centre for its own group of loops, but the threads of the two hemispheres are not continuous with one another. In many of them double threads are still noticeable. In some of the Dyasters the threads are very much shorter and thicker than in others. The most interesting forms of Dyasters are those in which the threads in each of the two hemispheres assume a peripheral, i.e. meridional, situation, so that each of the latter has now the shape of a basket, and consequently the Dyaster that of a double basket. The two baskets touch at their opening, while the bottom of each of the two baskets corresponds to one of the poles of the Dyaster. Generally in the phase of the Dyaster, either during, or shortly after the severance of the two daughter stars, the cell itself becomes constricted in a line which, when completed, passes right across between the two daughter stars. In the newt there exists this exceptional condition, that neither during the phase of the nuclear plate, i.e. the wreath and Monaster, nor before or after, is there any sign of what in other animals, invertebrate and vertebrate ones, and in plants, is known as the ‘nuclear spindle’ of Butschli, i.e. an elongated spindle-shaped body longitudinally and finely striated and possessed of more or less pointed poles. This spindle makes its first appearance in the phase of the wreath, and it bears a very intimate relation to the threads forming the wreath, inasmuch as this latter, forming the nuclear plate, occupies the equator of the spindle, hence Flemming terms it the equatorial plate. As the wreath and the Monaster pass into the phase of the Dyaster, the looped threads of the former rise along the fibrils of the spindle, using them, as it were, as guide and support on their migration from the equator of the latter to its poles. The daughter stars of the Dyaster are thus ultimately situated one at each pole of the spindle. The division of the cell itself necessitates also a division of the threads of the spindle in the equator. The spindle has been observed by almost all observers, in the