ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 4H as pointed out by M. Schultze, are each possessed of a hyaline sheath of Schwann with nerve corpuscles. Their axis cylinder is a bundle of primitive fibrils (M. Schultze). The nerve branches running in a longitudinal manner represent each a smaller or larger, simple or compound bundle (see p. 85), ensheathed in an endothelial sheath, the perineural sheath, as was also pointed out of other nerve branches. While ascending in an oblique manner through the mucous membrane, they branch and reunite and thus form a plexus. In the superficial layer of the mucous membrane they rapidly branch and break up into isolated or small groups of axis cylinders; these finally give off fine primitive fibrils immediately underneath the epithelium. These fibrils ascend into this latter and, as is now proved (M. Schultze, Babuchin, and especially Cisoff and v. Brunn), become connected with the fine filamen- tous inner processes of the olfactory cells. Babuchin observed in the epithelium apparently free ends which he thinks may well be the ends of the nerves of common sensation. The thicker the mucous membrane the more numerous and the larger are also the nerve bundles, and in fact they are the elements which besides the glands determine the thickness of the mucous membrane. There exists this definite relation that the more numerous the nerve bundles the thicker also the epithelium, or rather the more numerous the olfactory cells, since only these latter are subject to the variations. In the guinea-pig, and rabbit, and I have no doubt also in man and many other mammals, this relation comes out with striking distinctness in many regions where ‘ olfactory ’ parts are in contact with non-olfactory ones. Thus, for instance, if a transverse section of any of the numerous projections be examined, e.g. the conchae and other foldlike prominences, we find that the free margin of the projection possesses a thick mucosa with long gland tubes and very numerous and large nerve bundles, and consequently a very thick olfactory epithelium. From the margin towards the root, i.e. the point of fixation of the projection, the number of the nerve bundles, the length of the gland tubes, and consequently also the thickness of the mucous membrane, gradually decrease; and the same decrease is observed in the olfactory epithelium or rather of the olfactory cells of this latter. Near the root and at this latter the mucosa is of the non-olfactory nature, possesses no olfactory nerve bundles, no glands or very short ones, and consequently a very thin mucous membrane, and its epithelium is a ciliated epithelium, as described above. Not the whole olfactory region of the authors is covered with ‘olfactory’ mucous membrane, since in many places we find smaller ‘ olfactory ’ portions alternating with non-olfactory ones.