ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 8 if showing an opaque centre and a light periphery, but they appear such only because it is meant to convey that the former is out of focus when the latter is in focus. In every preparation of mammals’ blood and man there are a few coloured corpuscles conspi- cuous amongst the rest by their smallness ; they are called mycrocytes. They have been found very numerous in pernicious anaemia (Osier). Hayem regards them as young growing corpuscles, being more numerous in all cases—physiological and pathological—in which a reparation of blood occurs, e.g. menstruation, loss of blood, in convalescents after acute diseases, &c. Fig. XII. Human blood-corpuscles in £ percent, solution of common salt. The coloured blood-corpuscles have become horsechestnut-shaped. When mammalian blood is diluted with saline solution or any other indifferent fluid, e.g. solutions of neutral salts in a certain percentage, serum or kindred fluids, or if blood be spread out in a very thin layer under a cover glass, without the addition of any reagent, the coloured corpuscles undergo the following changes: they lose their smooth circular outline, and become possessed of minute angular prominences—crinate; these increase in number, and are gradually distributed over the whole surface of the corpuscle, and the corpuscle losing its discoid shape, becomes more like a sphere slightly flattened,—horsechestnut-shape : the more this last stage is reached the smaller the corpuscle. If to corpuscles after having become crinate, like those in fig. XI11.a, carbonic acid gas be added, their outline again becomes smooth and circular, but the corpuscles generally do not resume their biconcave form, most of them becoming convex- concave, i.e. saucer-shaped, like those represented in fig. XIII.b. The most probable explanation of the phenomenon of the crinate and horsechestnut- shaped corpuscles is this : when blood is removed from the vessels and spread out in a thin layer or diluted with an indifferent reagent, a disturbance in the equilibrium of the carbonic acid of the plasma and corpuscles must necessarily take place; in consequence of the loss of carbonic acid by the plasma, a loss of carbonic acid is also suffered by the corpuscles, and this is followed by the shrinking (coagulation ?) of a part of the stroma— probably the network of fibrils;—the more perfect this contraction of the network the smaller and the more spherical the corpuscle, and hence also the more horsechestnut- shaped. On adding carbonic acid to the corpuscle the network resumes its previous character, and the former discoid shape is restored. If the coloured corpuscles of mammal’s blood are subjected to a succession of electric discharges of a Leyden jar, they also lose their smooth outline, becoming first crinate, .then horsechestnut-shaped, and finally, after having swollen up again, they become decolorised (Rollett). Figs. XIV. and XV. represent coloured corpuscles of human blood after the addition of 2 per cent, tannic acid. The blood-corpuscles (suspended in plasma diluted with £ per cent, saline solution) were allowed to become crinate and horsechestnut-shaped