253 RELATION OF DIFFERENT PARTS OF KIDNEY. At the commencement of the cortex (next the boundary layer) the medullary rays are of about the same thickness as the aforesaid opaque columns of the boundary layer, but they diminish gradually towards the periphery of the cortex and cease altogether at some distance from the outer capsule; hence each of these medullary rays is conical in shape, its apex lying in the periphery of the cortex and its base merging into the base of the medulla : they represent what are called the pyramids of Ferrein. Taking the vertical diameter of both cortex and medulla together as to, the relative proportions of the above three sections, viz. cortex, boundary layer, and papillary portion, are about 3*5 : 2^5 : 4. In the human kidney and in that of other mammals Malpighian corpuscles are present only in the parts of the cortex containing convoluted tubules, i.e. in the labyrinth between the medullary rays, except the most external and most internal layer of the cortex, that is near the capsule and near the boundary layer. In both places, but especially in the former, there is a layer of appreciable thickness without any Malpighian corpuscles. Taking the vertical diameter of the cortex as 7, we find a layer of the thickness of 1 next the capsule, and one of O'S next the boundary layer, without any Malpighian corpuscles, as shown in the diagram 1 of Plate XXXVI Ia. as a and a\. Every urinary tubule, from its beginning in the Malpighian corpuscle to its opening on the surface of the papilla, can be divided into several distinct sections ; these differ from one another very markedly in location and structure. In diagram 1 of Plate XX XVII a. these different sections are well marked : 1. The Malpighian corpuscle, being a spherical csecal commencement of the urinary tubule. 2. The neck, a short narrow constriction, through which the Malpighian corpuscle passes into : 3. The proximal convoluted tubule. This is of considerable length and finally passes into : 4. The spiral tubule (Schachowa). This is not situated any more in the labyrinth, but forms part of the medullary ray. These four sections belong to the cortex a. Passing from the cortex into the boundary layer u, the spiral tubule becomes suddenly very fine and straight as: 5. The descending limb of Henle’s loop. This is continued into the beginning of the papillary section c, where it forms : 6. The loop itself. When entering the boundary layer again, it becomes suddenly enlarged and slightly wavy, forming thus : 7. The first thick portion of the ascending limb of Henle’s loop. 8. About midway in the boundary layer this tubule becomes again narrower and Q q 2