399 THE LIGAMENTUM SPIRALE. The cells are more flattened in about the middle of the membrane, and increase somewhat in their thickness-diameter both towards the upper and inner angle of the membrane. Next to the upper angle, i.e. where the membrane is in contact with the liga- mentum spirale, the epithelial cells contain in some instances minute brownish pigment granules. The epithelium at the upper angle passes into the epithelium of the stria vascularis, and at the inner angle into that of the crista spiralis (see below). The vestibular side of the membrane is covered with a layer of exceedingly flattened endothelial scales (Gottstein), each with a rounded or slightly oval nucleus ; the breadth of these cells is very much greater than that of the epithelial cells of the opposite side. At the upper and inner vestibular angle the endothelial layer passes into the similar layer of flattened endothelial cells lining the inner periosteum of the scala vestibuli. The ligamentum spirale (Kolliker) is a crescentic mass of connective tissue fixed to the inner surface of the bone and forming part of its periosteum ; it consists of a tym- panic and a vestibular portion; the two joining at an angular projection pass into the outer extremity of the membrana basilaris. The substance of the ligamentum spirale shows in a homogeneous matrix a great many stiff elastic fibrils crossing each other and interlacing ; most of them have a d'rection parallel to the surface of the ligamentum spirale, but distinctly radiating towards the membrana basilaris. Very numerous flattened endotheloid or spindle-shaped cells, each with an oval nucleus, are contained between them. When viewed from the surface many of these cells are seen to be more or less branched. The surface of the vestibular portion of the ligamentum, that is the one facing the cochlear canal, is covered with an epithelium, which on the one hand is continuous with that of Reissner’s membrane, and on the other, with that of the sulcus spiralis externus. The epithelial cells, or the cells of Claudius, lining the sulcus spiralis externus and those of the outer extremity of the membrana basilaris, i.e. the zona pectinata, are more or less columnar cells, each with a slightly oval nucleus. Towards the ligamentum spirale ac- cessorium, a projection caused by a blood-vessel and close to the stria vascularis, presently to be described, the epithelial cells become polyhedral and more or less flattened. But there are spindle-shaped, club-shaped, and pear-shaped cells extending between them from the tissue of the ligamentum spirale. Over the lig. sp. accessor, itself the epithelium is quite flattened. On the stria vascularis, which forms the chief part of the vestibular section of the 3 m 2