IOO ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. rated by a framework of thicker and thinner trabeculae of fibrous-connective tissue, with numerous connective-tissue cells, and directly continuous with the pial sheath of the optic nerve. This framework is, at the same time, the carrier of blood-vessels, large branches as well as capillary vessels. It forms a special accumulation around the arteria centralis. The bundles are of various sizes, some being two and three times thicker than others ; they are composed of medullated nerve fibres, that do not possess any sheath of Schwann. The medullary sheath appears sometimes to possess more or less regular varicosities, owing to an accumulation of fluid between axis cylinder and medullary sheath, as mentioned on a former occasion (p. 87). Under certain conditions (nitrate of silver), the nerve fibres do not show any such varicosities (Schwalbe). The individual nerve fibres within each bundle are separated from one another by a substance that, in all its essential characters, is identical with the neuroglia described of the white substance of the cord ; viz. (a) a hyaline, probably semifluid grouncl-sub- stance; (b) in this lies a network of fibrils, probably elastic, forming a network, and ar- ranged pre-eminently in a longitudinal direction ; and (c) numerous flat nucleated cells possessed of fine processes that lose themselves amongst the fibrils of the neuroglia. A large lymph-space may be injected (Axel Key and Retzius) on the inner surface of the pial sheath ; this space does not communicate with the subarachnoidal space of the optic nerve. It is continuous with lymph spaces situated between the bundles of nerve fibres and the trabeculae of the framework, and with smaller spaces within the trabeculae. The perifascicular lymph spaces communicate with minute spaces separating the indi- vidual nerve fibres in a similar manner as described on p. 84, and figured on Plate XVII. fig. IV. Besides the differences in structure between the optic nerve and spinal nerve, as described in a former chapter (XII.), there is this great distinction, that in an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve the component bundles, nerve bundles, possess a special sheath, perineurium, as distinct from the general framework of the nerve, epineurium. But in the optic nerve this is not the case, the whole nerve being comparable to a compound nerve bundle (see p. 84, b), the pial sheath being the perineurium, and the connective-tissue trabeculae in connection with it being the septa by which the subdivision into smaller and larger groups of nerve fibres is effected. PLATE XIX. Fig. I. Transverse section through the cervical part of the spinal cord of calf, one half of the cord being represented only. Magnifying power about 40.