BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE SKLN. 329 The Blood-vessels. Passing from the depth of the skin towards the surface, we find the blood-vessels arranged in the following systems (Tomsa) : a) The vascular system of the adipose tissue ; each lobule is supplied with an arteriole which, near its entrance into the lobule, passes into the dense network of capil- laries ; the meshes of this have a diameter of one, two or three fat-cells ; generally two venous vessels originate in the periphery of the lobule; both artery and veins join their respective trunks in the interlobular connective-tissue septa. The capillaries of neighbouring lobules often anastomose with one another. b) The vascular system of the sweat glands. The arterioles ascend from the depth and pass into a dense network of capillaries twining round the coils of the gland ; special veins originate from them. The duct, however, is supplied with an arteriole from the superficial arteries of the corium ; the capillaries of the duct form a network with elongated meshes, and are connected with the capillaries of the surface of the corium, as well as with those of the coiled tube. c) The vascular system of the hair-follicles. There is a minute arteriole ascend- ing into the papilla, and having formed a simple or compound loop of capillaries, it returns as a minute vein. The capillaries of the hair-sac run between the outer longi- tudinal and inner circular coat, and form a network with elongated meshes. Their afferent arteriole comes off from the large branches in the same level as those supplying the papillae of the corium. d) The same is also the case with the arteriole of the sebaceous follicle and the arrector pili ; the capillaries form a dense network surrounding the alveoli of the former, while in the latter the meshes of the capillary network are much elongated. The capillaries of the hair-sac, the sebaceous follicle, and the arrector pili are continuous with the capillary network of the papillary body, and the efferent veins of this latter are at the same time the efferent veins of the former. e) Those arterial branches that ascend up to the surface give off, besides the arterioles for the sweat-duct, hair-sac, sebaceous gland, and arrector pili, as mentioned above, also the arterioles of the papillae. Most of the papillae receive a minute branchlet, which passes into a single or compound loop of relatively wide capillaries. The descending branch of this passes into a network of relatively large venous vessels, extending horizontally in the superficial layer of the corium. The efferent veins of this superficial network are narrow ; they pass in an oblique direction towards the depth, and on their way join the efferent veins of other deeper systems. The corium of the nail-matrix contains a plexus of vessels with broad meshes ; in