DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. i45 In the large trunks (venous and arterial) there are lymph channels present also in the media ; they appear as clefts between the muscle bundles, and communicate with the lymphatics of the adventitia (Koster). 4. Development of Blood-Vessels. All blood-vessels in their young state are of the nature of capillaries, that is, their wall is a simple membrane consisting of a single layer of nucleated endothelial cells. Considerable differences exist as regards the size of these young vessels, the lumen of some being many times larger than that of ordinary adult capillaries. When the wall of a young vessel exhibits a differentiation into nucleated endothelial plates, and a linear albuminous interstitial substance acting as cement of these endothelial cells, the vessel has already passed the more important stages of its development ; these stages, counted backwards, are: (1) the wall of the tubular vessel is an uniform membrane, not exhibiting any differentiation yet into endothelial cells and cement- substance ; this membrane is protoplasm containing a network of fibrils, the intra- cellular network, as mentioned above, and appearing therefore uniformly ‘ granular,’ and in it, more or less regularly disposed, are oval nuclei containing the intranuclear network. (2) Previous to the above stage the vessel is irregular, being at some places much narrower than at others ; while at the latter it is still tubular, at the former it will be found quite solid protoplasm with nuclei, and resembling then a nucleated protoplasmic thread or band; this latter contains a smaller or larger number of vacuoles, which in some places are more or less close together, and ready to become fused. When this happens, the vessel becomes tubular, the above solid protoplasmic band or thread being thus hollowed out. When these vacuoles appear and, still more, when they increase in number and size, the nuclei previously contained in the centre of that solid protoplasmic band are shifted by them (vacuoles) into the marginal portion. After the band is converted into a tube, this marginal portion containing the nuclei represents the wall of the vessel. In this state of solid protoplasm with nuclei, we find not only larger or smaller sections of a network of vessels, the rest being composed of already tubular vessels, but also such single structures may be met with that are destined to become branches of an already tubular vessel. In the latter case, viz. where we have to do with the development of a branch, we find it as a longer or shorter nucleated, divided or un- divided, solid protoplasmic filament, directly continuous with the wall of the tubular vessel. The portions of the thread containing nuclei are, of course, thicker than the intervening sections. This thread may be a real outgrowth, a ‘sprout,’ of the wall of the main vessel, and then it may continue to grow; or it may be only a nucleated A A