ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 190 network, adapting itself to the curvature of the alveoli, possesses in a given portion of the latter a basket-shaped arrangement. In connection with these cells are minute membranous or filamentous septa, passing inwards between the epithelial cells lining the alveoli (Boll); they are lost in the cement substance between the epithelial cells. This cement substance corresponds to the capillary ducts described by some writers in the salivary and other glands (Saviotti, Langhans, Schwalbe, Ewald, Boll, Grot, and others). According to v. Ebner they are merely clefts, without any special wall, between the epithelial cells. Hering also denies their existence as special canals. Latschenberger takes the same view with reference to the pancreas. The nature of the lumen and the epithelium lining it determines the character of the gland. It is this : a) In the true salivary gland: the lumen of the alveoli is small, the epithelial cells form a single layer of columnar or short columnar cells, each with a spherical nucleus situated in the peripheral part of the cell. The substance of this latter appears ‘ granular,’ but is in reality a very dense network. Also the nucleus contains an intranuclear network. During secretion the lumen of the alveoli becomes still smaller, while the lining cells become broader than during rest. In the parotid gland, in the greater portion of the lobules of the submaxillary gland of man and guinea pig, in the submaxillary and orbital glands of rabbit, the alveoli show the structure just described. R. Heidenhain observed that the alveoli of the parotis of rabbit alter considerably their aspect after the stimulation of their sympathetic nerve. While after the stimula- tion of the cerebral nerve the cells lining the alveoli do not show any change from the resting state, after the stimulation of the sympathetic the cells become very much diminished in size and their contents very opaque. A similar change is observed also in the parotis of dog. b) In the true mucous glands : the alveoli are considerably larger than in the former case, not only on account of the greater length of the lining epithelium but chiefly owing to the much greater lumen. The cells are of two kinds : 1) The mucous cells (Heidenhain) or central cells line the lumen, and are trans- parent columnar cells in all respects resembling goblet cells, as mentioned in Chapter II.; with their pointed extremity they are applied to the membrana propria, but so as to be imbricated with each other (Kolliker). The nucleus is much compressed and next to the membrana propria. The cell substance, as is generally the case in goblet cells, is a deli- cate network, the meshes of which contain in the resting state a transparent substance : this is the mucigen of Heidenhain. When secreting this substance is transfoimed into