348 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. seem to terminate with such a varicosity or end-knob has been asserted by Cohnheim, Tolotschinow, Lavdowsky, Krause and others ; but they are not at all constant (Hoyer, Klein, Izquierdo), and, as I have shown just now, are not the real termination. The fine nerve fibrils of the substantia propria enter into close relation with the lacunar system or the corneal corpuscles respectively, for every one of these fibrils running in the interlamellar cement-substance must of necessity pass through or by a lacuna and its canaliculi. And the fact of this relation may be, and probably is, the cause of the assertions of so many observers of a direct anatomical connection of these nerve fibrils with the corneal corpuscles (Ktihne, Lippmann, Moseley, Lavdowsky, Thanhoffer, Izquierdo and others). In mammals they branch, and by these branches anastomose only in very few places ; in the frog’s cornea such anastomoses are oftener met with. It is very difficult to ascertain the real termination of the fine nerve fibrils. In ordinary preparations they seem to run out freely in the tissue, but in isolated instances of perfect gold specimens of the cornea of the rabbit and the kitten, as well as of the frog, I have ascertained that they terminate with an exceedingly delicate network of fine and short fibrils, situated not in, but on the surface of the corneal corpuscles. The Sclerotic. The sclerotic membrane is of a dense texture, similar in structure to that of the dura mater or a fascia. It consists of groups of bundles or trabeculae of fibrillar connective tissue crossing each other in different directions, with a slight tendency to a lamellar arrangement. Between the groups of bundles are the interfascicular lymph-spaces con- taining the flattened branched connective-tissue cells, identical in shape with those of the cornea. This connective-tissue matrix passes into that of the cornea, the bundles be- coming, however, more transparent. In most dark-eyed mammals we find near the point of transition the connective-tissue cells of the sclera containing brown pigment granules, but they are absent in the corneal tissue. Near the ligamentum pectinatum the bundles of the sclerotic become more regularly arranged, being parallel with one another in a more or less annular direction. Between the bundles of all parts we meet with networks of fine elastic fibrils ; these are especially numerous near the ligamentum pectinatum. On the inner surface of the sclerotic the trabeculae arrange themselves in some places into thin lamellae, and these pass in company with blood-vessels from the inner surface of the sclerotic to the outer surface of the chorioidea. The portion of this tissue next the inner surface of the sclerotic is known as the lamina fusca, that next the outer surface of the chorioidea as the suprachorioidal tissue. The connective- tissue corpuscles of these lamellae are likewise flattened, and some are much less branched