24 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. membrane. The character of the endothelium is quite different from that of the peritoneal side. The germinating cells surrounding the stomata, especially the open ones, are well shown. Copied from Klein’s ‘ Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ Part I. Fig. VII. The endothelium of the same membrane more intensely stained with nitrate of silver. In a, seen from the peritoneal ; in b, from the cisternal side. The substance of the individual endothelial plates is indicated as a brownish granular matter, the nucleus being left clear; especially well shown in b. This need not necessarily mean that the cell-substance has actually become stained by the nitrate of silver and the nucleus not, for it is quite possible that the brown matter is a precipitation in the serous fluid of the surface only; owing to its greater thickness, the nucleus projects beyond the general surface of the cell, and this part of the surface retains therefore least of that serous fluid, and hence contains least of the precipitation. The intercellular cement-substance of a contains a uniform precipitation of large and distinct granules. The outlines of the endothelial cells of b are very sinuous. The same endothelium is found on the membranes lining the subcutaneous lymph-sacs of frog. PLATE VI. Figs. I. II. V. VI. drawn under a magnifying power of about 300; figs. III. and IV. under one of about 450. Figs. I. II. III. and IV. are copied from Klein’s ‘Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ Part I. Fig. I. Germinating endothelium covering nodules and cords freely projecting over the surface of the fenestrated pleura mediastini of a healthy cat. Fig. II. Part of an opaque patch and its surrounding of the omentum of rabbit. a. Ordinary transparent flattened endothelium. b. Opaque patch covered with germinating endothelial cells. Amongst them many minute openings—stomata—leading into subjacent lymph-spaces. Fig. III. Portion of fenestrated omentum (guinea-pig) in chronic inflammation. a. Connective-tissue trabeculae covered with ordinary flat endothelium, marked here by its outlines. b. Trabeculae covered with richly germinating endothelial cells. Fig. IV. From the mesentery of frog. f. Ground substance not represented. a. Capillary blood-vessels containing a few blood-corpuscles. Each of these