ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 26o epithelium, that is next the lumen. From place to place an oblong nucleus can be seen in it more or less distinctly wedged in between the epithelial cells. In the convo- luted tubules (both sections) and in the spiral tubule (9) the number of nuclei of this centvotubular membrane is very small, but in the ascending limb of Henle’s loop, especially in sections 8 and 10 of diagram 1, and also in the collecting tubes of the cortex, their number is considerable. They appear also here situated in depressions of the epithelium, and owing to the lumen of the tube being very narrow, as in sections 8, 9, 10 and 12, the former appears almost entirely occupied by the centrotubular mem- brane and its nuclei. 15 and 16. The collecting tubes and ducts of the papillary portion possess a com- paratively large lumen lined with columnar transparent cells, each with an oval nucleus. The collecting tubes of the papillary portion join so as to form larger tubes ; the size of their lumen and the height of their lining epithelial cells are dependent on the size of the tube. The nuclei of all epithelial cells of the urinary tubules show a more or less dis- tinct intranuclear network within a limiting membrane. This network is best shown in the nuclei of the human kidney, and here again in those of the collecting tubes and ducts. Heidenhain, on the occasion of the discovery of the ‘ rod-structure’of the substance of epithelial cells in the convoluted tubules (both sections) and in the ascending limb (of Henle’s loop), both in the medulla and cortex of the mammalian kidney, made the im- portant observation that pigment matter (indigo-sulphate of sodium, phcenicin-sulphate of sodium) injected into the circulating blood of the dog and the rabbit is excreted by the epithelium of all those sections of the urinary tubules that possess the above-named rod-structure. Heidenhain maintains that the pigment is excreted through the substance of the epithelial cells themselves (rods and nucleus). Examining the kidney of the cat, into whose circulating blood carmine in ammonia had been injected, I find that carmine granules are present in the interstitial s?ibslance between the epithelial cells of the same sections of the urinary tubules, as in the above cases of Heidenhain, but not in the substance of the cells themselves. This is quite in accordance with what has been shown as regards the excretion of pigment in other epithelial and endothelial structures, as mentioned on former pages in connection with the observations of Thoma, Arnold, Kuttner, and others (see p. 176), viz. that the pigment is deposited betwee7i and not in the epithelial or endothelial cells themselves.