DISTRIBUTION OF NERVES AND GANGLIA IN THE TONGUE. 201 could not be easily achieved if the secretion were viscid, viz. if it were that of a mucous gland (v. Ebner). According to Krause and Kolliker, the nerves of the papillae of the tongue contain end bulbs, and according to Geber also tactile corpuscles of Meissner. This latter can be fully confirmed. In connection with the nerve trunks situated in the intermuscular connective tissue, especially in the parts containing secreting glands, we meet with smaller or larger ganglia (Remak). They possess the same structure as those of the submaxillary gland, and it is quite probable from their distribution that also in the tongue they bear an intimate relation to the glands. 3. The pharynx.—The mucous membrane lining the lower greater section of the pharynx is similar to that of the oral cavity as regards the epithelium, the structure of the papillae, of the mucosa and submucosa, the mucous glands in the latter, and the distribution of blood-vessels and lymphatics. In the upper section the epithelium is like that of the respiratory organs, viz. stratified columnar epithelium, the most superficial cells being ciliated. The mucosa is possessed of numerous folds and crypts, the wall of which contains lymphatic follicles and diffuse adenoid tissue similar to what is the case at the root of the tongue and the tonsils, and hence the designation of pharyngeal tonsil (Luschka). The pits and crypts are lined by beautiful ciliated columnar epithelium (Luschka). According to Ganghofner the epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the bursa pharyngis of children, especially the part that he designates as recessus pharyngis medius, is in some places composed of ciliated columnar cells, in others, as on the folds of the mucosa, of stratified pavement epithelium. This latter epithelium occurs also as small islands amongst large continents of cylindrical ciliated epithelium. 4. The oesophagus.—The oesophagus of man and mammals is lined with stratified pavement epithelium of the same nature as that of the oral cavity and pharynx; its (epithelium) thickness is much greater in man than in mammals. The mucosa is a dense connective-tissue membrane projecting into the epithelium as longer or shorter conical or cylindrical papillae. These are largest in the human oesophagus. The mucosa is separated from the loose submucous tissue by unstriped muscle cells, running in a longitudinal direction, and arranged in larger or smaller bundles—muscularis mucosae. In the beginning of the oesophagus, the bundles are small and separated by a great amount of connective tissue, further down they become closer, until they form a continuous layer, whose thickness increases towards the lower parts. The thickness of the mucosa, and