444 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. division of the nucleus of the ovum and of other cells in invertebrates, in that of the frog and mammals, and especially in plants, but not in the newt. Flemming saw them also in the salamander. In many instances the fibrils of the cell substance, during the stage of the wreath and monaster, appear as if radiating towards the latter. In those cases in which the spindle occurs, the poles of this latter are each connected with a system of radiating fibrils. In the segmenting ova of invertebrates such a radiating system of cell fibrils has been known through many observers since many years. Fol first noticed two such radiating systems, or ‘suns,’ of cell fibrils, and Auerbach brought these suns in connection with the division of the nucleus ; according to him this latter is the connecting link between the two suns, and he called the whole the ‘ karyolitic figure,’ thinking that each of the two suns indicates the direction in which the nuclear juice becomes fused into the cell substance. Biitschli, Strassburger, and Mayzel very minutely described them. There can be no doubt that these systems of radiating fibrils of the cell substance are con- tinuous with the fibrils of the spindle, and hence, I think with Strassburger, that this latter, i.e. the spindle, is, properly speaking, a part of the cell substance. Flemming, however, considers it as part of the nucleus, viz. the part which does not stain with dyes ; he calls it the achromatin, as distinct from the chromatin, i.e. the fibrils above described as forming the ‘ convolution ’ wreath, star, and double star. Each of the daughter stars of the Dyaster, or rather single baskets of the double basket, undergoes the following changes : the loops of threads, which, by the way be it mentioned, are relatively thick, become arranged alternately, so that the appearance of a transversely ribbed oval or spherical corpuscle is produced ; then the threads become gradually convoluted ; then they form anastomoses ; each daughter nucleus now re- sembles a * convolution ’ as described as the first phase of the mother nucleus. Of course such daughter nuclei are easily distinguished from a mother nucleus by their small size and by being in couples. After this each daughter nucleus gradually enlarges, and its fibrils become separated by a membrane from the cell substance. The intranuclear fibrils become gradually paler, less liable to take to staining, and in connection with them are seen two, three, or more large masses, the same as the nucleoli mentioned at the commencement of this chapter. But in some also these nucleoli disappear and the daughter nuclei cannot then be distinguished from their neighbours, neither in size, aspect or structure.