296 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The length of the glands varies in different animals and in the different parts of the same uterus. The mucous membrane of the uterus of the kangaroo, owing to its very great thickness, contains unusually long gland tubes (Turner). According to Kundrat and Engelmann, the thickness of the mucous membrane becomes increased during menstruation, the epithelium of the surface and that of the greater portion of the glands being destroyed by fatty degeneration and finally altogether detached; its restitution takes place from the epithelium of the deeper portion of the glands; but, according to S. Williams, not only the epithelium but also the greater part of the mucous membrane is destroyed by fatty degeneration. Wyder confirms this. The muscular coat forms the chief part of the wall of the uterus ; its bundles are entirely composed of unstriped muscular cells. Their (bundles) arrangement is very different in different parts of the uterus, but on the whole they are arranged, in the fundus of the normal human uterus, in three strata (Henle) : a) An outer thin stratum, next the peritoneal covering, its bundles are longitudinal; towards the middle stratum there appear between them oblique bundles. b) A middle coat, the prevalent direction of its bundles is circular, but there are numerous small longitudinal bundles between them. c) An inner stratum whose bundles run obliquely and transversely. The inner and middle coat are of almost the same thickness. In the cervix the muscular coat is thinner; the muscular bundles are also arranged in three strata (Henle), an outer and inner longitudinal and a middle circular layer. The outer longitudinal bundles pass from the uterus into the muscular coat of the adjoining organs, viz. the oviduct, ligamentum teres, and vagina. The muscular bundles in all strata anastomose with one another into plexuses, and are separated from one another by a scanty connective-tissue ; this is better seen in the inner and middle than in the outer stratum. The connective-tissue consists of fibrous lamellae separated from one another by endothelial membranes. Numerous lymph clefts and lymph vessels are contained in this intermuscular connective-tissue (Leopold). In the inner stratum, next the mucous membrane, the intermuscular connective- tissue assumes the character of that of the latter. In the uterus-horns of mammals the muscular coat is generally composed of an outer longitudinal stratum and an inner thicker circular stratum, but the bundles of the former pass as oblique bundles into the latter. Also the inner bundles of the inner stratum possess in many places a more or less oblique direction. The arterial trunks penetrating through the muscular coat into the mucous mem-