8o ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Wolff) ; in the adult fibres no trace of the nuclei of those cells is to be found in the sarcolemma. The younger the muscle fibre the more numerous the muscle corpuscles, and the greater the amount of protoplasm around them. When muscle fibres undergo increase in thickness and number, as during prolonged and systematic muscular exercises, we find the muscle corpuscles taking an active part therein ; they enlarge and multiply, and the greater part of their substance is converted into muscle substance proper ; the mode of this transformation is the same as in the embryo. Thus we find many muscle fibres of the diaphragm of young as well as adult mammals (dog, rabbit, guinea-pig) possessing the character of growing fibres, viz. numerous and large muscle corpuscles sometimes forming on the surface of the muscle tissue proper, but underneath the sarcolemma, a more or less continuous layer of poly- gonal or square cells of various sizes, each with one or several nuclei. The protoplasm of these cells is gradually converted, and hence passes insensibly, into the striated muscle substance. The great number and size of the muscle corpuscles in some of the fibres of the diaphragm, as compared with those of the fibres of another muscle, e.g. quadratus lumborum, of the same animal, is not owing merely to the fact that the diaphragm being a red muscle its fibres possess many more muscle corpuscles than those of the quadratus lumb., which is a pale muscle ; not all the fibres of the diaphragm possess a great abun- dance of muscle corpuscles, and those that possess it do so much more conspicuously than the fibres of other red muscles (semitendinosus) of the same animal. It is probable that the character of many muscle fibres of the diaphragm, just de- scribed, indicates a constant new formation and increase of thickness. Constant work necessitates constant waste, and very likely constant reproduction. The lymphatics and nerve-termination of striped muscle tissue will be described in the chapters on the Lymphatic and Nervous System respectively. Striped muscle tissue is richly supplied with blood-vessels, the arteries and veins being situated in the perimysium, the network of capillaries in the endomysium, between the individual muscle fibres. The capillary blood-vessels are very numerous, and run parallel with the muscle fibres ; they anastomose by short transverse branches, hence the meshes of the capillary network are preeminently of an elongated shape. In the red muscle of rabbit Ranvier demonstrated a peculiar condition of the minute veins and capillaries, these vessels being possessed of sinuous and spindle-shaped dilatations, owing probably to the almost permanent contraction of these muscles (E. Meyer). Briicke was the first to show that striped muscle fibres are doubly refractive, and