115 CEREBROSPINAL GANGLIA. Following the nerve trunk into the ganglion, we notice that the ganglion cells form at first smaller or larger groups or rows between the peripheral nerve bundles ; by-and-bye they appear also between the central ones; finally their number increases to such an extent that the nerve bundles become split up into small groups of fibres which run between the groups of ganglion cells in an oblique or longitudinal, or even transverse direction. The nerve fibres in the cerebro-spinal ganglia of man and other vertebrates are, as a rule, medullated nerve fibres of the same structure as those described of the cerebro-spinal nerves; amongst them we meet also with a few non medullated nerve fibres, i.e. axis cylinder with hyaline sheath of Schwann and nerve corpuscles. The ganglion cells themselves are spherical, oval, or pear-shaped cells, occasionally slightly flattened. They vary considerably in size, some being three and four times as large as others. Their substance contains a homogeneous interstitial matrix, and a fine network of fibrils (Schwalbe), which occasionally near the periphery possess an arrange- ment parallel to the surface, and therefore are more or less concentric. Each ganglion cell contains about the centre a relatively large well-defined spherical or slightly oval nucleus, which under certain conditions shows an intranuclear network. In many in- stances it contains one large nucleolus, seldom two such nucleoli. Generally each gan- glion-cell possesses a larger or smaller clump of yellowish pigment granules. Most ganglion cells are possessed of one process, unipolar cells (Kolliker, Lieber- ktihn, Fraentzel, Courvoisier, Schwalbe, Stieda, and others). This process is a direct prolongation of the fibrillar network of the substance of the cell, and appears therefore finely and longitudinally striated (Max Schultze, Schwalbe, Key and Retzius). This process is directly continuous with the axis cylinder of a nerve fibre, and may there- fore be called the axis-cylinder process. The smaller examples of the ganglion cells appear to be without any such process, that is, they are apolar (Kolliker, Key and Retzius); such ganglion cells are probably young or embryonal forms. Each ganglion cell is enclosed in a special capsule. This is a homogeneous thin hyaline membrane, identical with the hyaline sheath of Schwann of nerve fibres. Inside this hyaline capsule lies a layer of small, more or less polyhedral or flattened proto- plasmic cells, each with a round or slightly oval nucleus; they represent in some instances an almost complete epitheloid lining. The capsule and its lining cells have been known through the observations of many authors (Henle, Robin, Axmann, Leydig, Kolliker, Courvoisier, Stieda, and others). The number of these lining corpuscles varies in different ganglia and in different ganglion cells of the same ganglion; they are generally most numerous near the axis-cylinder process (Arndt). T