362 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. and after reagents (iodine-serum, osmic acid) the outer member exhibits fine longitudinal striae, due to the presence of fine ridges and furrows (Hensen, M. Schultze), and also * closely placed transverse striae. After certain reagents, especially serum and dilute liquor potassii, the outer member of each rod separates in a great many thin homogeneous- looking transverse discs (Hannover), owing to the swelling up of a cement-substance between the discs (M. Schultze). Ritter, Manz, Schiess, and others describe, after treatment with water and dilute chromic acid, a central filament in each outer member (Ritter’s filament). The length of the outer member is generally greatest at the back of the eye, it diminishes towards the ora serrata. The outer extremity of the outer member is ensheathed, as mentioned above, by the filaments of the tapetum, it is as a rule rounded or slightly conical. The inner extremity is in contact with the inner member, from which it is separated by a thin layer of a cement-substance. When seen in profile the line of division is generally a straight one, but occasionally it is a broken one, and this is owing to the outer and inner member not joining in a single straight plane, their several extre- mities being facetted. But there is also another mode of junction between the two members, that is by a membranous sheath ; this is a continuation of the cortical sub- stance of the inner member and extending on and embracing the adjoining extremity of, the outer (Schwalbe). According to Landolt this sheath extends over the whole outer member of the batrachian rods. The inner member of the rods in man and mammals is cylindrical, but with convex surfaces ; it is broader than the outer one and about as long as the latter. In fishes and birds the inner member is more filamentous, but forming a bulbous enlargement at the point of junction with the outer member. In the frog’s retina there are two distinct types of inner members, as I can fully confirm Schwalbe’s observations; one being filamentous and long and joined to a short outer member, the other short and thick and joined to a long outer member. Hoffmann observed the same relations also in the retina of Bufo and Bombinator, but not in Triton and Salamandra. The inner member is pale or indistinctly granular and shows a fine longitudinal striation due to the presence of fine fibrils which extend over it from the limitans externa in the shape of a basket-like sheath (Krause, M. Schultze). In the outer extremity of the inner member exists in many instances (birds, Krause; many other vertebrates, M. Schultze) a peculiar lenticular structure, whose presence becomes very distinct after maceration in iodine-serum and osmic acid. In the human and mammalian retina, however, there exists in the cortical portion of the inner member, instead of the lenticular structure, a peculiar mass of longitudinal fine bright fibrils (M. Schultze).