392 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. it is similar to that of the tuba Eustachii, viz. stratified and columnar, consisting of a top layer of ciliated conical cells, between the extremities of which are pushed in spindle-shaped cells, and the thin extremities of inverted conical cells, which, with their nucleated basis, form the deep boundary of the epithelium (see Chapter II.). Among the superficial cells are goblet cells. The mucosa underneath the epithelium is a dense fibrous membrane, containing, besides the lymph-canalicular system and its lining branched cells, a rich network of blood capillaries, networks of fine non-medullated nerve fibres, and lymphatic sinuses and tubes lined with endothelium (Kessel). v. Troltsch and Kessel mention simple mucous-secreting glands as being present in the mucous membrane of the human cavum tympani. The larger nerve branches of the plexus tympanicus, situated in the deep tissue of the mucous membrane of the cavum tympani and of the cellulae mastoideae, are com- posed of medullated nerve fibres, and they are associated with larger or smaller groups of ganglion cells either placed in the course of the branches or at the point of their anastomosis (Pappenheim, Kolliker, Krause, Kessel). The numerous thicker and thinner, simple or complex connective-tissue trabeculae, which in the cavum tympani and in the cellulae mastoideae traverse the respective cavities extending like bridges between the mucosa of neighbouring osseous projections, and in most places acting as the carriers of blood-vessels or nerves, are ensheathed in a single layer of polyhedral epithelial cells continuous with those of the mucosa. In some places these trabeculae acquire a large size, as in the ligaments of the malleus. In connection with such trabeculae, projecting from the floor of the cavum tympani, in the cellulae mastoideae, and especially about the stapes, Kessel observed peculiar oval bodies of various sizes, consisting of a central fibrous axial cord, around which fibrous lamellae are arranged concentrically, and between these are clefts filled either with a homoge- neous or granular matter, or with spindle-shaped-looking elements. Generally the axial cord having passed through more than one of these oval bodies, or having entered one, splits up into several branches, each of which may again become the axial cord of an oval body. The nature of these bodies, although resembling in a limited sense Pacinian corpuscles, is not ascertained.