290 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. is generally single, rarely it is double; it contains within a definite membrane a trans- parent matrix, and in it a delicate reticulum of fibrils, in some cases without any, in others with one or more irregularly shaped large clumps, nucleoli or germinal spots ; this reticulum has been noticed by Balfour also in the young ovary. The reticulum is very distinct if the ovary has been prepared with chloride of gold. In specimens hardened in the ordinary way (Muller’s fluid) the germinal vesicle appears homogeneous with faint and fine granules, it stains more or less uniformly in dyes ; in it are situated, generally peripherally, one or two or more bright spherical or angular clumps—germinal spot or spots. The larger and largest ova contain generally one, seldom two, nuclei or germinal vesicles, whose structure does not differ from that of the small ova. In the fresh state and after some hardening reagents, e.g. Muller’s fluid, the germinal vesicle shows only faintly the intranuclear reticulum ; this comes out much more prominently in chloride of gold specimens. Many follicles arrive at the stage of ripeness before puberty is reached, and are sub- ject to a process of degeneration. But this process involves also follicles of earlier stages, and even the smallest follicles (Pfluger, Waldeyer, and others). It differs, how- ever, according to Slavjansky, from the normal process by which a ripe Grafian follicle is converted, after puberty, into a corpus luteum. The degeneration leading to the formation of a corpus luteum consists in a multipli- cation of the epithelial cells of the membrana granulosa, and in the sprouting of new capillary blood-vessels, with migratory cells, from outside the follicle into its hyper- trophied epithelium. This new growth stands in a causal relation to the discharge of the ovum (Spiegelberg), and the cavity of the follicle is gradually filled up with the hypertrophied epithelium, with pigment granules and blood-vessels. The tissue now occupying the centre soon changes into gelatinous tissue. The cortical portion of the corpus luteum so much hypertrophies that it becomes gradually folded, and its cells undergo fatty degeneration, becoming filled with several small fat-globules, which gra- dually become confluent into one large drop ; the nucleus is hereby pressed into the periphery of the cell. The degeneration which occurs in Grafian follicles before puberty is similar to the above, but differs from it in the fact that the hypertrophy and fatty degeneration of the granulosa and the number of capillary blood-vessels in it are not so great. The vascular gelatinous tissue, occupying the centre of a corpus luteum, formed before puberty, remains separated for some time from the cortical portion of the latter by the persistence of the zona pellucida of the ovum. Good examples of degenerating follicles of this nature are to be met with in the ovary of halfgrown rabbits.