224 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XXVII. THE PANCREAS. The structure of the pancreas differs to a considerable extent from that of the salivary glands. The two are, however, similar as regards the framework, the blood-vessels and lymphatics. A thin capsule of fibrous tissue gives off lamellae of the same tissue ; these penetrate as septa between the lobes and lobules into which the gland substance is divided. The amount of this connective tissue varies in different animals ; in man it is greatest and therefore the arrangement of the gland into lobes and lobules can be easily followed. From the interlobular connective tissue proceed very delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, but especially the flattened branched connective-tissue corpuscles ; these are continued into the interior, where they may be traced, in company with the capillary blood-vessels, between the gland alveoli. The interlobar and interlobular connective tissue gives also support to the larger branches of the arteries and veins, and it contains nerve branches and large lymphatics with valves. These latter take up lymphatic clefts and sinuses lined with endothelium and situated between the lamellae of connective tissue passing in between sections of a lobule. In man these lymphatic clefts are easily demonstrated and also the sinuses which sur- round parts of the circumference of the alveoli. As regards the distribution of blood-vessels the same relations prevail as in the salivary and other glands, viz. the arterioles dissolve themselves into a uniform net- work of capillaries closely surrounding the alveoli. The gland tissue consists of the large or lobar ducts, which take up the small or intralobular ducts ; these are much branched and take up longer or shorter branched thin canals which correspond to the intermediary parts of the ducts ; these lead directly into the alveoli. The lobar ducts are tubes with large lumen, their wall is a membrana propria lined with short columnar epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus near the membrana propria. The cells are shorter than in the ducts of the salivary glands, and their sub- stance is very finely and longitudinally striated. Outside is a smaller or larger amount of fibrous-connective tissue ; the pancreatic duct and its larger branches possess in their wall unstriped muscle cells. The intralobular ducts are similar to the former, except that they are much smaller :