3s 9 3 L CHAPTER XXXIX. THE OUTER AND MIDDLE EAR. The cartilaginous matrix of the auricula has been described in Chapter VIII. as reticular or elastic cartilage. The skin covering it is in no way different from that of other parts. It is continued into the meatus auditor ms ext emus, where it differs in so far as the ordinary sweat glands are replaced by the larger ceruminous glands, which have been described in a former chapter, p. 315. Towards the membrana tympani the hairs and their sebaceous glands become scarcer, and the corium much thinner. The subcutaneous tissue in both the cartilagi- nous and osseous portion is so firmly connected with the connective tissue of the peri- chondrium or periosteum respectively, that it may be regarded as part of these. The cartilage of the meatus auditorius externus is elastic cartilage, being a direct continuation of the cartilage of the auricula. The Membrana Tympani. The membrana tympani consists of an outer, middle, and inner lamella. The first is a direct continuation of the skin of the meatus auditorius externus, the second is the membrana propria, and the third is the mucosa. The skin part is a delicate membrane composed of delicate bundles of connective tissue covered with a thin epidermis. This last-named differs in no way in structure from that of the meatus auditorius externus. The papillae of the corium present in this latter do not pass beyond the margin, i.e. the tendinous ring of the membrana tympani, except at the posterior upper part, where they extend as far as the processus brevis of the malleus. The membrana propria, or middle stratum, contains, besides a limited number of elastic fibrils and elastic membranes (Helmholz), stiff bundles of connective tissue similar to tendinous tissue grouped as larger or smaller trabeculae. They possess either a radiating arrangement, as in the layer next to the cutis, or a circular one, as in that next to the mucosa, or they pass in various directions and branch out either into the one or the other. Some of those of the outer and inner layer run out into the skin part and into the mucosa.