23 ENDOTHELIUM OF EE NESTE A TED MEMBRANE. Fig. II. Part of a plexus of connective-tissue bundles from the fenestrated omen- tum—stained in carmine—of a rat. The omentum of many mammals—dog, cat, guinea-pig, rat, mouse, man—is, in the adult individual, a plexus of broader and narrower trabeculae, composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres. These trabeculae are covered with, or ensheathed in endothelium, the meshes between the bundles being left entirely uncovered, as represented in figure V. Such a membrane is called a fenestrated membrane, and is present in other organs besides the omentum ; e.g. the pleura mediastini of many mammals, the mesogastrium of frog, the fenestrated membranes of the liga- mentum denticulatum of the spinal cord, and of the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, &c. Endothelial cells of these and similar organs, e.g. surface of tendon, outer surface of nerve trunks, or blood-vessels that pass through a lymph-sac, are in so far different from those of a flat surface, e.g. mesentery, as the endothelial cells constituting the ensheathing endothelial membrane are curved, this latter adapting itself to the more or less curved surface of the respective organs. The same holds good also for the endothelial cells that line a tube, e.g. blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. In the present figure II. the ensheathing endothelium is recognisable only in profile, i.e. on the edges of the trabeculae ; the substance of the endothelium being quite transparent, it is not noticeable on the surface of the trabeculae. Fig. III. Surface view of the endothelium covering the peritoneal side of the central tendon of the diaphragm. The preparation being stained in nitrate of silver, we find only the intercellular cement-substance, i.e. the cell-outlines, represented. a. Narrow streaks of small endothelial cells. b. Broader streaks of large endothelial cells. The membrane (peritoneum) on which the latter (b) are situated covers the tendon bundles themselves, whereas that corresponding to the former (a) covers the inter- fascicular lymph-channels (see chapter on Lymphatics). Fig. IV. Two endothelial plates of mesentery of newt, stained with picrocarmine. hach endothelial plate contains in a hyaline slightly stained ground-plate a plexus of fine fibre-bundles—intracellular network—in connection with the intranuclear network. Fig. V. Fenestrated omentum. Only the outlines of the endothelial cells (not their nuclei) ensheathing the trabeculae are shown. Fig. VIa. Surface view of endothelium covering the peritoneal side of the frog’s septum cisternae lymph, magn. The germinating endothelial cells bordering the stomata are well shown. Some of these are widely distended, others are quite collapsed. Fig. VIb. Surface view of the endothelium of the cisternal side of the same