ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 144 media, but consist only of an endothelial lining, and a connective-tissue adventitia, as in the nail matrix of man, and in the tip of the nose in mammals ; or with veins that possess a distinct media of circular muscles, as in the tip of the fingers and toes of man. The presence of contractile branched pigment cells in the adventitia of arteries and veins of lower vertebrates has been mentioned on a former occasion in Chapter VII. Also the presence of sinuous and spindle-shaped dilatations in the minute veins and capillaries of some striped muscle fibres of rabbit, as discovered by Ranvier, and the spindle-shaped and angular dilatations of the inner (capillary) network of the dura mater of the brain, described by Boehm, Key and Retzius, Michel, and others, have been mentioned in Chapters XI.‘(p. 80), and XV. (p. 105) respectively. Peremeschko saw similar spindle-shaped dilatations on the vessels of the ligamentum nuchse of dog and cat. Beale described, many years ago, sinuous dilatations on the capillary vessels of the pharynx of frog. In the cavernous tissue of the male and female genital organs minute veins form a dense plexus in the form of wide sinuous spaces lined by endothelium ; into these lead the arterial branches. The wall of these venous spaces is formed by elastic and unstriped muscle tissue. The adventitia and media of large vessels (arteries and veins) contain a special system of nutrient blood-vessels, vasa vasorum ; the arterial and venous branches of these lie chiefly in the adventitia, occasionally also in the outer part of the media ; the capillaries generally penetrate into the media and near the intima, only seldom also into the latter (Koster). In the microscopic arterial branches we meet with capillary vessels as a rule only in the adventitia. Lymph-spaces are present as intercommunicating interfascicular spaces, containing connective-tissue cells, in all coats of arterial and venous trunks. The lymphatics attain their greatest development in the adventitia of large trunks (arteries and veins), where they form a plexus of more or less tubular vessels. In the smaller trunks they form large sinuouslike spaces lined by continuous endothelium. These spaces in the adventitia, both of arteries and veins, become occasionally fused into longer or shorter continuous lymphatic vessels, ensheathing, as it were, the vessel to a larger or smaller extent as a perivascular lymphatic, as is the case with some vessels of the omentum, mesentery, and the membranes of the brain, in the hepatic and splenic artery, and in the pulmonary vessels.