ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 354 both of the radiating and meridional portion, but especially of the latter, the formation of plexuses becomes very marked, owing to the peculiar platelike enlargements of the muscle bundles; each of these gives off a number of thin, almost threadlike branches, which at the same time represent the terminations of the former (Ivanofif). Besides the network of capillaries, the ciliary muscle possesses a rich plexus of non-medullated nerve fibres, with which are connected numerous ganglion cells, either in small groups or in larger collections. The arterial branches of the ciliary processes and ciliary muscle are derived from the circulus arteriosus iridis major. In the ciliary processes the network of capillaries is very dense, and, corresponding to the elevations of these, forms conical groups, which, when viewed from the surface, are not unlike the capillary networks in the intestinal villi viewed obliquely. 3. The Chorioidea. The chorioid membrane, being a continuation of the ciliary processes, contains a stroma of bundles of connective tissue, with numerous networks of elastic fibres and flattened branched pigmented cells. Counting from the sclerotic inwards, we meet with the following layers :— a) The lamina fusca ; this is a loose lamellar continuation of the scleral connective tissue, both fibrillar connective tissue and elastic networks. The connective-tissue cells are pigmented and unpigmented. The former are either large plates with few short and broad processes and oval nucleus, or they are small and possessed of numerous fine and branched processes, or they are altogether unbranched and more or less spheroidal. In the last instance the nucleus is spherical. The unpigmented cells are small flattened branched cells and endothelial plates, each with an oval nucleus, and covering the surface of the lamellae, as mentioned above. b) The lamina or membrana suprachorioidea is merely the continuation of the lamina fusca, but is considered part of the chorioidea both by right of custom and by the fact that when separating by force the sclerotic from the chorioidea it remains attached to the latter. Like the lamina fusca, it consists of lamellae of connective-tissue bundles, including networks of elastic fibrils. The lamellae, covered with endothelium, are separated from one another by large more or less continuous lymph-spaces. The fewer these lamellae the more con- siderable are the lymph-spaces (Schwalbe). The blood-vessels and nerves, running between the sclerotic and chorioidea, obtain on their passage a special sheath from the stroma of the lamellae. The connective-tissue cells of the lamellae of the lamina supra- chorioidea are of the same nature as those of the lamina fusca. c) Next to the lamina suprachorioidea follows a deep loose layer, containing the