407 SPIRAL FIBRE-BUNDLES. of primitive fibrils, the latter are very characteristic besides their fineness, also by their regular minute varicosities. But they all have to pass through the layer of nucleated small cells, the granular cells of Waldeyer, underneath the inner hair cells. Each of the axis cylinders or their larger branches become connected with the pointed extremity of the inner hair ce’ls and represent the inner radial nerve end-fibres, while the fine varicose primitive fibrils are the outer radial nerve end-fibrils; these latter pass between the bodies of the inner pillars, crossing in a slightly ascending transverse direction the tunnel of the Corti’s arch in about its middle height, and having emerged again beween the outer pillars, terminate finally in the substance of the outer hair cells. There exist also other threads which pass through the tunnel, e.g. the fibres of Deiters’ (see above), and threads which have the same origin as these latter, but, like the nerve fibrils just mentioned, have an ascending direction and appear to lose them- selves close to the spindle-shaped cells of the outer hair cells, i.e., the cells of Deiters. Max Schultze observed bundles of fine fibrils, which running in a spiral direction are called the spiral fibre bundles. According to M. Schultze and Deiters they are directly derived from the axis cylinders of the nerve fibres after having passed through the holes of the habenula perforata. Waldeyer distinguishes one inner bundle of these spiral fibrils running immediately underneath the row of inner hair cells and three outer bundles running underneath the rows of outer hair cells, but so that one is situated in the space between the row of outer pillars and the first row of outer hair cells, the next between this latter and the second row, and the third between this latter and the third row of the outer hair cells. According to Rosenberg the spiral fibrils are more numerous in the young than in the adult cochlea. A careful examination of the cochlea cannot fail to ascertain the fact that as we ascend from the lowest turn towards the cupola all parts decrease in absolute size in a definite manner. Thus the lamina spiralis ossea gradually decreases in length, the crista spiralis and the ligamentum spirale both in length and thickness ; the stria vascularis decreases conspicuously in length, while the membrana basilaris less so, although distinctly. The membrana tectoria, owing to the decrease in length of the crista spiralis and membrana basilaris, of course also diminishes in length. The organ of Corti in all its parts, including the pillars and hair cells, shows a slight but distinct diminution in size from the basis of the cochlea towards the top. The Blood-vessels.—The capillary blood-vessels of the cochlea form networks belonging to the periosteum including those of the lamina spiralis ossea, and connected 3 n 2