ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 4 cuts through the whole depth of the substance, and thus divides the corpuscle into two (Klein, Ranvier). In fig. V. a common or pale colourless corpuscle is shown after it has separated into two lumps connected by a thin bridge. The lower of the two figures is a later stage of movement of the one above. In the blood of most vertebrate animals there are other colourless corpuscles besides the two kinds mentioned : they are much smaller, possess a relatively large nucleus, and show only slight amoeboid movement. They represent corpuscles not yet fully developed. In newt’s and frog’s blood there are, in addition, oblong pale slightly flattened corpuscles, with an oval nucleus: these show only very slight amoeboid movement, and are supposed to be the intermediary forms between colourless and coloured corpuscles. Semmer describes in mammal’s blood peculiar nucleated corpuscles somewhat larger than ordinary colourless corpuscles, but otherwise similar to them, except that they contain red granules, and are therefore called red granular corpuscles', they are supposed by this author and A. Schmidt to be intermediary forms between ‘granular’ colourless corpuscles and coloured ones. The plasma of blood of most mammals contains, besides colourless and coloured corpuscles, minute bright but colourless, more or less angular granules, isolated or in groups (Max Schultze). Their nature is not definitely ascertained ; their number varies in different animals and man, and also in one and the same individual at different times. If pigment, e.g. vermilion, in a finely divided state is mixed with blood, either before or after withdrawing it from the vessels, the colourless corpuscles, in virtue of their movement, take up—‘ feed on ’—the pigment particles. This process can be easily observed on newt’s colourless corpuscles. In fig. VI. an ordinary colourless corpuscle is represented that had taken up a few vermilion granules ; the other examples represent the same corpuscle while undergoing amoeboid movement; the vermilion granules are shifted about in its interior. In the same way as a corpuscle takes up pigment granules it is capable also of swallowing any other particles of the surrounding medium. In some' instances the corpuscle is capable of loading itself with a large burden of extraneous matter without losing its power of spontaneous movement. But the corpuscle may rid itself again of this, by ejecting one particle after another. In fig. VII. a corpuscle is represented before and after it has got rid of a portion of its load. Many of the colourless corpuscles when fresh and living do not show the nucleus or nuclei in their interior; some, however, show distinct nuclei while moving; but all exhibit their nuclei—from one to four, and even more—when dead, or when treated with acids.