283 CHANGES IN NUCLEI OF SEMINAL CELLS. d. Seminal cells. s. Spermatozoa. Fig. IX. shows well the peculiar change of the nucleus of the seminal cells during and after division. In the layer n the network in the nucleus of the seminal cells shows the arrangement peculiar to division (see the text). Fig. X. shows various forms of nuclei of the seminal cells under a higher power than represented in the preceding figures. a is a * resting ’ nucleus of one of the outer seminal cells. b are nuclei preparatory to division ; they have no membrane, and the contents are a beautiful ‘ convolution ’ of relatively thick fibrils or rods viewed in different directions. c, similar nuclei, in which the fibrils radiate towards a central line ; this form gradually leads to that of the ‘ wreath ’ and ‘ aster,’ the radiation of the fibrils being towards a central point instead of a line. d is a similar nucleus, but its fibrils, being arranged vertically to the plane of the microscope, are almost all seen in optical transverse section. They are limited to the periphery of the nucleus, and run more or less parallel with one another, ‘ basket- shaped ’ arrangement. Fig. XI. Two groups of similar nuclei of testis of the cat; each of these groups is contained in one large cell, the substance and outline of which are not shown here. The nuclei in each group are arranged in a spherical zone ; the left group is seen from the top, the right one from the side. The fibrils in the different nuclei have a variable arrangement, as ‘ convolution,’ ‘ basket,’ or * aster.’ Fig. XII. From the same testis as the preceding figure, showing one large and three small seminal cells ; the former has several, the latter each one irregular, lobed, homogeneous nucleus. Whether or not this uniformity in the substance of the nuclei and their lobed form is due to shrinking, or whether or not in reality these nuclei show similar fibrillar contents as those of the preceding figures, it is not possible definitely to ascertain. Magnifying power about 450. Fig. XIII. From a vertical section through the glans penis of a newborn child ; the blood-vessels are injected with Berlin blue. Magnifying power about 25. e. Stratified epithelium of the surface of the glans. m. Mucous membrane, possessed of numerous minute papillae with networks of capillaries. Numerous transparent (empty) lymphatic vessels are indicated in the tissue of the mucous membrane. eg. Corpus cavernosum, showing the network of venous sinuses or cavernae connected with the capillaries of the stroma. u u