349 STRUCTURE OF SCLEROTIC MEMBRANE. than others, their processes being fewer, and shorter, and broader. (In dark eyes many of the cells contain yellowish or brownish pigment granules ; see below.) The lamellae are covered with an endothelium, and are separated from one another by more or less continuous lymph-spaces (Schwalbe). As regards the outer surface of the sclerotic various regions are to be dis- tinguished, viz. the subconjunctival region, then that of the insertion of the tendons of the eye muscles, and the region of the Tenonian lymph-space. The bundles of the subcon- junctival loose connective tissue, and those of the tendons are intimately connected with those of the sclerotic. In the region of the Tenonian lymph-space (Schwalbe) the proper tissue of the sclerotic is covered with a thin layer of connective tissue ; this is the inner or episcleral lamina of the Tenonian capsule (Schwalbe); the inner surface of the outer lamina and the outer surface of the inner lamina are lined with an endothelial membrane (Schwalbe). Helfreich describes in the tissue of the sclerotic a dense plexus of non-medullated nerve-fibres. Waldeyer saw in the human sclerotic repeated divisions of axis cylinders. In the superficial layers such fine branches may be followed for a considerable distance accompanying the blood-vessels. The sclera contains its own blood-vessels, consisting of arterioles, capillary and venous networks. The capillaries and veins are distinguished by an outer special endothelial sheath (Michel). The tissue of the sclera is, besides, perforated by the vessels destined for the chorioidea. The above-named interfascicular lymph-spaces form an intercommunicating system ; which has been beautifully demonstrated by Michel in injections into the sclerotic. There exists, in the immediate neighbourhood of the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic but belonging to the sclerotic, a circular canal, compressed in a direction parallel to the surface of the sclerotic, lined with a special endothelial membrane; it forms an indirect communication with the inter- fascicular lymph-spaces of the surrounding parts of the sclerotic. This is the canal of Schlemm. According to Schwalbe the canal of Schlemm, like the spaces of Fontana, with which it communicates, is a lymph-canal, but according to the more recent investigations of Leber, it is a venous plexus, while Waldeyer considers it with Schwalbe as a lymph- space. It communicates with the anterior chamber of the eye (Schwalbe), anastomos- ing by fine clefts and holes with the spaces of the ligamentum pectinatum. This latter is a spongy tissue situated at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic on the one hand, and the iris, ciliary processes and ciliary muscle on the other. The trabeculae and lamellae which constitute its matrix are composed of elastic fibres, 3 e 2