FRAMEWORK OF MAMMARY GLAND. 301 apparently only by the capillary blood-vessels. But there are everywhere branched nucleated connective-tissue corpuscles to be found between the alveoli ; according to Winkler also elastic fibrils, and in the rabbit, occasionally but not constantly, unstriped muscular cells. In the resting as well as in the secreting gland there are also migratory or lymph corpuscles to be found between the alveoli. They are relatively more numerous in the former than in the latter; they vary in numbers in different glands and in different parts of the same gland. According to Creighton, in the resting gland, they are derived from the epithelium contained in the gland alveoli. The resting gland contains, in addition, in the connective-tissue surrounding its alveoli large granular yellow (pigmented) nu- cleated cells; similar cells are found also in the alveoli, and Creighton maintains that both are identical, being derived from the alveolar epithelium; from the connective- tissue they find their way into the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The production of the small lymphoid and the large pigmented cells constitutes, according to Creighton, the principal function of the resting gland. The large ducts, passing from the lobules, possess a thick connective-tissue sheath and unstriped muscular cells. These latter are derived from the muscular bundles of which the skin of the nipple of the breast abounds. The parenchyma of the active mammary gland consists of the ducts and the alveoli. The membrana propria of the ducts is an endothelial membrane (Langerhans) ; it is lined with a single layer of columnar epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus. On the nipple the rete Malpighii of the epidermis is continued a short distance into the mouth of the ducts. In the large lobular ducts the epithelial cells are short columnar or polyhedral. They give off the short terminal ductlets, lined with a single layer of flattened pavement cells, each with a spherical or slightly flattened nucleus. It is necessary to remember that also in this gland the height of the epithelial cells lining the ducts is dependent in a great measure on the state of contraction or distension (by secretion or otherwise) of the latter, for we find the epithelial cells in a large duct, if distended, less columnar than in a smaller branch, if contracted. Where the terminal ductlets join, so as to form a larger duct, the latter possesses a saccular dilatation. Each terminal ductlet takes up several alveoli; these are longer or shorter wavy and convoluted tubes possessed of cylindrical or saccular lateral branchlets. Owing to the wavy and curved nature of the alveoli, each section made through the gland shows them cut in various directions, transversely, obliquely, or longitudinally. The diameter of the alveoli is larger than that of the ductlets. Each alveolus is