174 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. at the same time distended, for during the ascent of the central tendon the area of its pleural surface becomes enlarged. Hence the effect of the movement of the diaphragm on its lymphatics in inspiration is the reverse from that in expiration, since during the latter the straight lymphatic capillaries become compressed and therefore dis- charge their contents; these are readily received by the pleural lymphatics, distended during this period. The action of the respiratory movements of the diaphragm is, therefore, that of a pump (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel), but of one with two cylinders (Klein), owing to the straight lymphatics emptying themselves in two directions, viz. into the anterior and posterior systems, as mentioned above. The direct absorption of formed matter, milk, blood, &c., placed on the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of rabbit by the lymphatics of this organ has been first shown by v. Reckling- hausen, and Rajewski proved the same also for the human diaphragm. Ludwig and Schweigger- Seidel then proved this to be dependent chiefly on the respiratory movements; Klein demonstrated the lymphatics in their different relations to one another by injecting Berlin blue into the peritoneal cavity of the living rabbit and examining the diaphragm after several hours. b) In the intercostal pleura the lymphatics are arranged as a plexus of superficial and one of deep lymphatics (Dybkovski) ; the vessels of the former correspond to straight lymphatic capillaries which open freely by stomata vera on the free surface, that is into the pleural cavity; on the other hand they empty themselves into the plexus of deep lymphatics, which possess valves and the efferent trunks of which pass through the subserous tissue outwards. As in the zona peritendinea of the diaphragm, so also in the pleura costalis and intercostalis of man, Bizzozero and Salvioli showed the existence of small holes in the subendothelial membrana propria or limitans; these holes, together with the holes between the endothelial cells of the surface, form the stomata. The relation of the pul- monary pleura with the pleural cavity will be considered in the chapter on the Lung. Dybkovski proved the passage of pigment matter from the pleural cavity through the stomata into the lymphatic system of the intercostal pleura, and likewise that, as in the case of the diaphragm, the respiratory movement has a direct influence on the absorption, viz. acting as a pump. 6. The synovial membrane possesses, according to Tillmanns, a rich network of lymphatics, of which there is a plexus immediately underneath the endothelium of the surface ; the deeper vessels mostly accompany the large blood-vessels. In the tendinous parts Tillmanns finds a network of lymphatic clefts situated chiefly between the bundles of connective tissue, similar as in tendinous tissue of other localities. In certain places of the knee-joint of rabbit Nicoladoni described numerous nerve branches, from which fine nerve fibres come off; some of them terminate in a network, others belong to