203 NERVES AND GANGLIA IN THE CESOPHAGUS. a single caecal vessel or a loop. The plexus of lymphatics of the mucosa is in commu- nication with a plexus of large tubular vessels belonging to the submucosa (Teichmann). In connection with the submucous lymphatics, in the oesophagus as well as in the pharynx, are special lymphatic vessels and sinuses belonging to the mucous glands (Kidd). The plexus of large nerve trunks surrounding the oesophagus includes larger and smaller ganglia (Remak). The nerve-branches that enter the oesophagus form a dense plexus of smaller or larger bundles between the circular and longitudinal layer of the external muscle coat. In these nerve branches we meet with isolated or chains of ganglion cells (Klein). Each of these is enclosed in a capsule. The submucous tissue contains another plexus of nerves, connected with the former plexus, and also in this may be met with occasionally isolated ganglion cells (Klein). 5. The Stomach.—The epithelium covering the free surface of the gastric mucous membrane is a single layer of columnar epithelial cells; in many places the cells are mucus-secreting goblet cells (Strieker, F. E. Schultze, Klein, Watney, and others); this is especially the case during digestion, when all cells are secreting mucus. The nature of the intracellular network in the ordinary epithelial cells, and in the goblet cells, and the relation of the ordinary epithelial cells to the goblet cells, have been fully described in Chapter II. The lower or inner portion of the epithelial cells, containing the oval nucleus, remains always the same, viz. composed of a dense network, even while the upper part becomes changed into the mucus-secreting goblet. The epithelium of the surface is continued into the ducts of the gastric glands, these being closely placed tubes vertically sunk into the mucous membrane. The epithelium lining the ducts is identical in appearance and nature with that of the free surface. Amongst the epithelium of both the surface and the gland ducts is a reticulum of connective-tissue cells and their processes (Watney), losing themselves in the cement substance between the epithelial cells. Watney showed that the epithelial cells, both of the free surface and of the ducts, undergo division ; this is indicated by the presence of smaller or larger epithelial buds, being groups of broad, clear epithelial cells. Underneath the epithelium is a base- ment membrane, which consists of nucleated flattened transparent endotheloid cells (Watney). The inner greater section of the mucous membrane belongs to the mucosa; this contains in a scanty connective tissue, chiefly composed of thin fibre bundles, numerous flattened endotheloid cells (Watney), a few lymph corpuscles, and gland tubes, the gastric glands, placed closely and vertically to the surface. Owing to the close posi- tion of the gland-ducts, opening on the surface, the mucosa of this latter appears