ELASTIC TISSUE. 37 measure on the state of contraction or expansion of the tissue in which those fibrils are contained. Of this character we find the elastic tissue in the skin and mucous membranes, subcutaneous and submucous tissue, serous-, synovial- and kindred membranes, the lungs, the loose connective tissue separating or connecting adjacent organs, and the in- termuscular connective tissue. The matrix of elastic cartilage and the bulk of the mucosa of the true vocal cords (human) are made up of networks of these fibrils, and also in the coats of arteries and veins we find this form of elastic tissue, but not so abundant as other forms (see below). The relation of the network of elastic fibrils in many connective tissues is this : the elastic fibrils are situate on the surface of, but outside, the connective-tissue bundles, and in close proximity to the connective-tissue cells covering the bundles (Axel Key and Retzius). 2) Thick, cylindrical or bandlike, solid, sharply outlined homogeneous fibres branch- ing and anastomosing into a network. They are present, in addition to those mentioned before, in the skin and mucous membranes, e.g. mouth and pharynx. In the inner superficial portion of the trachea and large bronchi they form, in connection with a small amount of fibrous-connective tissue, a special longitudinal layer. They obtain their greatest development in yellow ligaments, e.g. ligamentum nuchee of ox, liga- menta flava, &c.: here they form the chief constituents, containing only a small amount of fibrous-connective tissue with the ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles. They are broader or narrower cylindrical or bandlike fibres richly branched and anastomosing; the fibres with their branches are arranged longitudinally, so that at first sight the tissue appears composed of parallel fibres; but in a thin section, especially when pulled out transversely, the branching and anastomosing of the fibres can be easily ascertained. By prolonged treatment with strong solutions of caustic potash Schwalbe has demonstrated that these fibres possess a thin sheath. In larger blood-vessels, especially arteries, they obtain a great development. (See a later chapter.) 3) Perforated elastic membranes (membrana fenestrata, Henle); these result from the individual elastic fibres being very broad and anastomosing into a net- work with few and small meshes. Of this nature is the elastic tissue in arteries (intima and media), and also veins (media), as will be mentioned in the chapter on Blood- vessels. 4) Continuous elastic membranes. These membranes possess all the chemical characters of elastic tissue ; they appear in many instances homogeneous, but under suitable conditions can be shown to contain bundles of minute fibrils. To this form of elastic tissue belong: a) The anterior elastic membrane (Bowman) of the human cornea, situated im- g 2