ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 426 they are small and their nucleus conspicuous, as in the rat, guinea-pig, and ape, their nature as cell-plates arranged as a honeycomb is not easy to ascertain. The substance of the cell-plates is transparent, and contains in many instances smaller or larger clumps of finer or coarser yellow-brown pigment. Both the cell-plates and the spherical or oval lymphoid cells (see below) contain sometimes coloured blood- corpuscles in variable amount. These are the cells filled with blood-corpuscles first pointed out by Kolliker. Their occurrence is not a constant one ; in the human spleen they are occasionally missed. They are very conspicuous in size and number in the spleen of the pig and man in cases of great congestion during life. In connection with these cell-plates are spherical or oval corpuscles identical in aspect, size, and nucleus with lymphoid cells; they are either connected with the cell- plates by a shorter or longer stalk, or are altogether free of them, hence it is probable that they are developed from them by a process of gemmation. In some places the meshes of the honeycombed matrix become enlarged and fused into a continuous canal-like sinus ; in this case the cell-plates arrange them- selves like an endothelial lining of the sinus, the cells becoming at the same time more spindle-shaped or club-shaped, and imbricated with their outer extremity. Such a sinus represents a venous radicle of the pulp (see below), and its endothelium, when seen in transverse section, appears therefore like a layer of polyhedral cells. But, as mentioned before, they are continued outwards by membranous processes into the honeycombed matrix. Immediately outside the endothelium of these sinuses, in the pulp of man and ape, is a layer of delicate elastic fibrils arranged circularly around the sinus, so that when this is viewed from the surface it appears surrounded by rib-like fine fibrils. When viewed in transverse section the endothelium appears bordered on its outside by a row of dots. These fibrils are the supporting fibrils seen already by Billroth, Frey, and Kyber. I do not miss them on the venous sinuses of the pulp of man and ape, but do not find them in those of other mammals. The most important part of the spleen pulp are the blood-vessels. As has been mentioned above, the arteries divide dendritically, and having parted company with the veins, are all ensheathed in the adenoid tissue of the Malpighian corpuscles ; to these they give off the capillary blood-vessels which, as mentioned above, are characterised by their special sheaths. They form a uniform network (Schweigger- Seidel, Kyber), with wide meshes (Schweigger-Seidel, Stieda). Some of the arterial branches of the Malpighian corpuscles do not lose themselves altogether in these latter but pass beyond them into the pulp. There are, in addition, arterial branches in the pulp which never had anything to