NERVE TERMINATION IN UN STRIP ED MUSCLE. 131 of pig, Dietl). They are situated either in the tissue of the papillae, or extend amongst the epithelium. They occur as simple or compound end organs ; the former are single, large and slightly flattened transparent nucleated cells (similar to those described of the beak and tongue of birds) enclosed in a capsule, and similar to ganglion cells forming a direct continuity with a medullated nerve fibre; the latter contain within a capsule several small cells. The ‘tactile’ or Meissner’s corpuscles, hitherto known especially in the papillae of the skin of the fingers of man, are such multicellular end organs. F. Termination of nerves in unstriped and striped muscle fibres. The tissue of muscle is richly supplied with nerves. Their distribution varies considerably in striped and unstriped muscle. i. In unstriped muscle. The nerve branches are composed of non-medullated nerve fibres, each of them (nerve branch) possesses an endothelial sheath ; they divide into individual or small groups of axis cylinders, which show very well their composition of primitive nerve fibrils. They form a plexus consisting in the exchange and rearrangement of the primitive fibrils. This plexus represents the ground plexus of Arnold. Its branches are pos- sessed of nuclei belonging either to nerve corpuscles or to flattened nucleated cells con- tinuous with the above endothelial sheath. The branches of the ground plexus divide into fibres of various thicknesses, still possessed of nuclei, indicative of nerve corpuscles ; these fibres form another plexus, the intermediary plexus of Arnold. This belongs to the individual bundles of the unstriped muscle fibres, whereas the ground plexus appertains to a group of muscle bundles. The fibres of the intermediary plexus, however thin, are always compound, being a smaller or larger bundle of primitive fibrils. They give off the latter, viz. the primitive fibrils, which pass into the interstitial substance that separates the individual muscle cells ; here they run for a longer or shorter distance, and anastomose with their neighbours by transverse or oblique fibrils into a real network. These fibrils represent the inter- muscular fibrils of Klebs. It is not definitely settled whether they themselves are the terminal fibrils (Lowit), or whether they send off still finer branchlets that penetrate into the nucleus of the muscle cells. Frankenhauser lets them terminate in the nucleolus, undivided if one, divided in two if there are two nucleoli. According to Arnold they terminate in the nucleolus, but so that this latter is only a nodal point in the ultimate or intramuscular network. Elischer describes the nerve fibrils as terminating on the sur- face of the nucleus with a small swelling. x