211 MUCOUS AND SALIVARY GLANDS. b. Gland tube cut longitudinally. The epithelial cells lining the alveoli are columnar, their substance is a dense net- work, much denser than here represented, and their nucleus is spherical. Fig. XI. Part of a lobule of a mucous gland of the root of tongue of dog. Magni- fying power about 90. a. Gland tubes cut in different directions. d. Duct. Fig. XII. Part of a lobule of submaxillary gland of dog; showing (a) the alveoli cut in different directions ; each alveolus shows a relatively large lumen lined by trans- parent mucous cells, outside these the more opaque crescents of Gianuzzi. d. The intralobular ducts. The details in structure of the epithelium lining the duct and alveoli are not shown on account of the low magnifying power. Fig. XIII. From the same gland as represented in the preceding figure. Magnify- ing power about 400. a. Alveoli or gland tubes (branched) cut in different directions ; the lumen is very conspicuous ; the lining cells are mucous cells. Outside these are the crescents, groups of ‘ granular ’ polyhedral cells. d. Minute duct in transverse section; its epithelium shows a very beautiful longi- tudinal striation. i. Intermediary part of duct. The epithelium is here made up of short columnar cells, each with a spherical nucleus. Fig. XIV. From a vertical section through the dorsal part of the tongue of a child. Magnifying power about 90. m. Connective tissue of mucosa. a. Small papilla filiformis. p. A papilla fungiformis. Both kinds of papillae are covered with thick stratified pavement epithelium, and both, especially the fungiform papilla, possess minute secondary papillae, extending from the connective-tissue matrix into the covering epithelium. Fig. XV. From a vertical section through dorsum of tongue of rabbit; the blood- vessels had been injected with carmine and gelatin. Magnifying power about 100. m. Mucosa; from it rise papillae filiformes, each with a single or double loop of capillary vessels. e. Thick stratified epithelium, covering the papillae. p. The summit of the papillae; the epithelium on them (summits), as well as on the surface between them—h—is transformed into a homogeneous horny stratum.