73 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. granular layer is in the centre of the lateral disc ; in others, it is nearer the con- tractile disc, and still in others nearer the Krause’s membrane. The striped muscle fibres contain numerous oblong more or less flattened nuclei, each embedded in a thin more or less branched film of protoplasm. Each nucleus contains a uniform network, intranuclear network. Both nucleus and protoplasm form the muscle cell or muscle corpuscle of Max Schultze. In the muscle fibres of higher vertebrates, except the heart, the muscle corpuscles are, as a rule, situated on the surface of the muscle substance, but underneath, not in, the sarcolemma. In the muscle fibres of amphibian animals and insects we find them sometimes only in the centre of the fibres (Weismann, Kolliker). In birds (pigeon and fowl, Rollett) both conditions are met with. The number of muscle corpuscles varies greatly in different muscle fibres ; they are always more numerous in young, developing, or growing fibres (see below). Muscle fibres differ in colour, some being red, others pale. In mammals this is owing, in some instances, to well-defined structural differences (Ranvier). Comparing a red muscle, e.g. semitendinosus, of rabbit with a pale one, adductor magnus or vastus interims of rabbit, Ranvier finds the fibres of the red more longitudinally, those of the pale ones more transversely striated ; the former possess a much greater number of muscle corpuscles than the latter; the red fibres contract slower than the pale ones, and the latter return much quicker to their state of rest. But these differences are not of a constant nature, inasmuch as, according to E. Meyer, the red muscles of other parts and in other animals (flexor digitorum com. and masseter of rabbit, red muscles of other rodents) do not show any different characters from the pale ones. In some instances (silurus) the red fibres of the red muscles are thinner than those of the pale ones (Ranvier), in others (rabbits) just the reverse is the case (E. Meyer). The more a muscle works the deeper its colour (E. Meyer). The muscle fibres of some organs, tongue (Remak, Ripmann, Kolliker, Salter, and others), facial muscles (Huxley, Busk, and others), and especially heart, are branched, either repeatedly but without anastomosis of the branches, as in the former, or they are arranged in a network, as in the latter. The muscle fibres of the heart show the following peculiarities: (i) they do not possess any sarcolemma ; while ordinary striped muscle fibres in transverse section, either fresh or after reagents, show a well-marked and sharp limiting membrane, the sarcolemma, those of the heart are limited by their muscle substance itself. (2) A transverse section through heart muscle differs also in other respects from that of ordinary muscle; while ordinary muscle shows the transverse sections of its muscle fibres as round or oval bodies more or less pressed against one another, and differing in size within moderate limits, those of the heart, on the other hand, are of various sizes, and being