286 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. direction amongst the spindle-shaped cells, and anastomose by lateral branchlets into a network. It is difficult to definitely ascertain the nature of the spindle-shaped cells, viz. whether they are imperfectly developed connective-tissue or unstriped muscle cells. They certainly resemble unstriped muscle cells more than anything else. While Kolliker, Henle, Pfliiger, Waldeyer, v. Winiwarter, and others regard the stroma as composed of connective-tissue, Rouget, Aeby, Klebs, and others assume a great amount of unstriped muscular tissue in it, while His considers the stroma almost entirely muscular. Between the bundles of the spindle-shaped cells are seen from place to place smaller or larger cylindrical or irregular more or less anastomosing groups of small polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus. The substance of these cells is a very fine reticulum ; the nucleus contains also a reticulum, and in some instances contains one or more thickenings, nucleoli. These cells are most numerous in the deeper parts of the parenchyma ; they are generally absent from the albuginea ; they extend also into the tissue of the hilum, where they have been seen by Kolliker, but misinterpreted by this observer. Their significance is exactly the same as that of the intertubular or interstitial epithelial cells mentioned in the testis, viz. they are remnants of the epithelium of the Wolffian body, and we shall call them, therefore, interstitial epithelial cells. They have been known through His, Waldeyer, Romiti, Born, Balfour, and many others. Balfour has very distinctly traced them from the Wolffian body, and he describes them as the ‘ tubuliferous tissue ’ in the developing ovary. The interstitial epithelial cells are well shown in the ovary of the cat, the dog, and the guinea pig, where they are easily recognised, besides by their shape, also by a slight yellow tinge. The free surface of the ovary is covered with a single layer of columnar or short columnar epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus; this is the germinal epithelium of Waldeyer, who first showed the great contrast of this epithelium and the layer of flattened endothelial cells covering the ligamentum latum; a similar contrast exists between the columnar (ciliated) epithelium of the oviduct and the flattened endothelium of the peritoneum around the abdominal extremity of the former. The parenchyma consists of the Grajian follicles. These are of very various sizes and shapes, and are so distributed that the larger ones are seated in the deeper parts of the zona parenchymatosa, while the small ones lie near the surface, immediately under- neath the albuginea. In most instances the latter are aggregated as smaller or larger groups ; in some cases (cat and rabbit, Waldeyer) these groups are so close that they