THE SEROUS GLANDS. 4Ti branched make it probable that they are fine nerve fibrils. There is one other feature about these glands which is of interest, viz. where they are large, e.g. in the thick portions of the mucous membrane, the alveoli, especially those nearest to the surface, are filled with a substance which resembles the fatty matter in the sebaceous and in the Meibo- mian glands. This fatty matter in the nasal glands is found in the shape of smaller or larger globules scattered through the substance of the gland cells, which at the same time are much larger here than in other parts of the same gland. In the guinea-pig and rabbit the interalveolar tissue contains here numerous finer and thicker bundles of unstripecl muscle cells which are connected into a plexus; in their meshes are contained the gland alveoli. In some parts large blood-vessels, chiefly veins, with thin walls appear also embedded in, or surrounded respectively by the muscular plexus, and thus completely resemble a cavernous tissue. Also lymphoid cells, each with a spherical nucleus, are met with in these parts in the interalveolar connective tissue. That the presence of this unstriped muscular tissue is of importance for the ready discharge of the secretion of the gland alveoli cannot be doubted, considering that owing to the relative rigidity of these regions the secretion would otherwise not easily reach the surface of the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the ‘ olfactory ’ region, or rather of the ‘ olfactory ’ places, is of a different nature from that in the ' non-olfactory ’ or respiratory region. It contains in its epithelium and mucosa a small amount of pigment (M. Schultze). Its epi- thelium is covered on the free surface with the membrana limitans externa of v. Brunn, through the holes of which project the outer processes of the olfactory cells (see below). According to v. Brunn this membrane consists in reality of a deeper and superficial layer, the former is the proper limitans externa, while the latter is composed of very fine and short rudimentary cilia of Krause. The limitans proper is a cuticle, such as exists also on the epithelium of the non- olfactory places. The epithelium consists of:— a) A superficial layer of slender cylindrical or conical epithelial cells, whose substance is finely and longitudinally striated,--not merely on the surface of the cell substance, as maintained by Babuchin, but throughout. Each of these cells has on its free basis, that is the one on the free surface, a smooth and sharp outline without a trace of cilia. Its oval nucleus lies in the inner portion of the cell ; this extends vertically inwards, that is towards the depth, with a pointed filamentous branched or unbranched process. Owing