418 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 8. The epithelium lining the sulcus spiralis externus. 9. The epithelium lining the sulcus spiralis internus ; not complete. 10. The medullated nerve fibres in the lamina spiralis ossea. 11. The crista spiralis ; its detailed structure is not represented. Fig. IV. From a longitudinal section through the cochlea of the guinea-pig, showing the lamina spiralis of the first turn cut twice transversely. Magnifying power about 150. 1. Sulcus spiralis internus. 2. Lamina spiralis ossea, containing the medullated nerve fibres. 3. Ganglion spirale. 4. The root of the lamina spiralis internal to the ganglion spirale; its canals contain medullated nerve fibres, shown here in transverse section. Fig. V. From a transverse section through part of the wall of the utricle of the labyrinth of the guinea-pig; showing the periphery of the macula acustica. Magnifying power about 300. A. The peripheral part of the macula acustica. B. Portion of the lateral wall of the utricle. 1. The epithelium ; there is still left here a rudiment of the superficial cuticle covering the epithelium. 2. The subepithelial hyaline basement membrane. 3. The fibrous coat with capillary blood-vessels. Between 1 and 2 of the lateral wall is a layer cf pigment cells. Fig. VI. Part of the membrana basilaris and ligamentum spirale of a similar pre- paration as in fig. 11. Magnifying power about 450. 1. Ligamentum spirale with capillary blood-vessels. 2. The hyaline limiting membrane underneath the epithelium of the sulcus spiralis externus. 3. Bone of the outer capsule, not represented in detail. 4. Epithelial-like cells on the tympanic surface of the membrana basilaris. The bulk of the tissue of the ligamentum spirale passes into the membrana basi- laris and forms the matrix of this latter. 5. A fold of the hyaline limiting membrane on the upper surface of the membrana basilaris, continuous with the limiting membrane of the ligamentum spirale. Fig. VII. From a transverse section through the macula acustica of the utricle of a guinea-pig’s labyrinth. Magnifying power about 250.