179 DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPHATICS. l. Superficial straight lymphatic capillary, contained between the radiating tendon bundles. .y. Stomata surrounded by germinating endothelium and leading from the free surface into the straight lymphatic ; some of the stomata are open, others collapsed. t. Part that corresponds to tendon bundles ; the endothelial cells covering this part are larger than those over the lymphatic capillary (see Chapter III.). Figs. XVI. and XVIII. represent developing lymphatic vessels of the tadpole’s tail; magnif. power about 350. These vessels develop from branched corpuscles in the same manner as the blood-capillaries described and figured in a previous chapter, viz. by a process of vacuolation. The minute spikes and filaments of the wall of the young lymphatics are very numerous and quite characteristic. In some parts of the tadpole’s tail it is not easy to distinguish a developing blood-vessel from a young lymphatic, but as a rule this distinction is facilitated by noticing that the wall of the former is coarser than that of the latter, that it possesses few of the above processes, and that it can be traced to a vessel that contains blood-corpuscles. a. Parts that are still composed of solid protoplasm. Fig. XVII. From a horizontal section through the superficial part of a thymus of calf, viewed under a lens ; showing in the centre a follicle of polygonal shape and similarly shaped follicles around it. This polygonal shape does not, however, indicate that the follicles are polyhedral, but only that the part of the follicle next to the capsule is so shaped. The clear lines between the follicles indicate the interstitial connective tissue separating them. The distinction into a transparent medullary and deeper stained cortical portion is well shown. Fig. XIX. Copied from Klein’s ‘Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ II. a. The ciliated columnar epithelium lining a bronchus. b. The branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the mucosa; they are connected with similar branched corpuscles in the epithelium, whose processes reach up to the free surface and are embedded and lost in the interstitial cement-substance—the pseudo- stomata. The connective-tissue corpuscles are contained in the lymph-canalicular system (see a previous page), and it may be therefore said that the interstitial substance of the epithelium acts as rootlets of the lymph-canalicular system of the mucosa. Fig. XX. Copied from Arnold, * Virchow’s Archiv,’vol. Ixxiii. Showing the excretion of indigo sulphate of sodium in fine lines passing radially through the capsule of the cartilage cells. When seen from above these lines appear of course as fine dots. Fig. XXI. Copied from Klein’s ‘Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ I. Showing the lymphatics of part of the central tendon of rabbit injected with Berlin blue, that had