4i3 THE OLFACTORY EPITHELIUM\ cells. In good thin well-stained sections of well-prepared material (e.g. guinea-pig’s and rabbit’s olfactory organs) this distinction is very well shown. According to M. Schultze, Babuchin, and others, the olfactory epithelium consists only of the superficial layer of cylindrical epithelial cells and the olfactory cells, but in the guinea-pig and rabbit I never miss the lower layer of inverted conical cells mentioned previously. The mucosa is separated from the epithelium by a delicate basement membrane. The tissue of the mucosa is of a loose texture, and contains numerous flattened nucleated endotheloid cells. Numerous gland tubes, the glands of Bowman, pass through the mucosa, each tube extending from the deepest part of this latter, i.e. from near the periosteum, in a more or less vertical direction to the free surface. On its way the tube is wavy, slightly convoluted and in many instances, especially where it is long, gives off two or more branches. The gland tube gradually increases in thickness towards the depth of the mucous membrane, and thus appears more or less club-shaped. Its duct is the part which is situated in the epithelium of the surface, through which it passes in a vertical direction ; it opens on the free surface with a small mouth. Occasionally the epithelium as a whole forms here a goblet-shaped depression, a relation noticed already by Babuchin. Both the duct and the gland proper possess a membrana propria. The gland tube possesses a very small central canal, lined with a single layer of ‘ granular ’-looking cells, each with a spherical nucleus. In the deeper parts of the gland the cells are columnar, in the more superficial ones they are polyhedral, but their substance is a distinct reticulum, which is very conspicuous when the gland is secreting, the cells being then much larger. Occasionally in hardened specimens the lining epithelium as a whole becomes detached from the membrana propria, and it is then found that each cell is possessed of a thin prolongation by means of which it remains connected with the membrana propria; in the natural state this prolongation lies horizontally on this membrane, and by means of it the contiguous cells appear imbricated with one another in the manner described in Chapter XXIV. The epithelium of the duct consists of a layer of very flattened cells, each with a spherical or flattened nucleus. In hardened preparations in which the olfactory epithe- lium has become removed by accident or otherwise, the ducts are well shown, being now isolated and freely projecting from the mucosa. The great number of the ducts is now much easier ascertained than when the epithelium is still present. A most important part of the mucosa are the branches of the olfactory nerve. As has been mentioned in Chapter XII. they are composed of non-medullated fibres which, 3 o