120 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The unipolar cells are found in almost all sympathetic ganglia. They are met with especially in the microscopic ganglia of the alimentary canal and genital organs of mammals. They possess a finely striated axis-cylinder process, which, as in other instances, is a continuation of the cell substance, and carries with it a prolongation of the capsule of the cell, as sheath of Schwann, and of the nucleated cells as nerve corpuscles. The bipolar cells are similar to the former, except that they possess two processes, one at each pole—the cell appears thus spindle-shaped—or they are both coming off from one side of the cell either close together or somewhat apart from one another. The multipolar cells are very common in man and other mammals (Kollmann, Arnstein, Schwalbe, and others), especially in the larger sympathetic ganglia. Their processes vary from 3 to 5 or more, they are of very various thickness; some are branched, others unbranched. In all instances, no matter whether uni- bi- or multipolar, each process is a continu- ation of the cell-substance, and obtains a prolongation from the hyaline capsule of the cell as the hyaline sheath of Schwann, and of the lining capsular cells, as the nerve corpuscles, that is to say it becomes converted into a non-medullated nerve fibre. In frog the ganglion cells, especially the bipolar ones, are of a peculiar nature, inas- much as one of their processes appears as a ‘spiral fibre ’ twisted round the other process, ‘the straight fibre.’ These cells have been discovered by Beale, and are known as Beale’s ganglion cells with spiral fibre. The spiral fibre is generally thinner than the straight fibre, and where it leaves the cell-substance there exists always an accumulation of small nuclei. The spiral fibre is in some instances branched, and the branches anastomose into a network (Arnold, Kolliker, Courvoisier). The spiral fibre, at first thin, becomes soon thicker and transformed into a inedullated nerve fibre, whereas the straight one remains non-medullated (Hoffmann, especially Key and Retzius). The spiral fibre is at first enclosed in a common sheath with the straight one, but sooner or later leaves this latter in its own sheath of Schwann. Similar cells, viz. with ‘ spiral fibre,’ but less distinct than in the frog, are met with in mammals (Courvoisier, Bidder, Klein). The special character and distribution of the sympathetic ganglia of the alimentary canal, and uro-genital organs, will be mentioned in connection with the description of these organs in future chapters,