12 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The nucleus of epithelial cells is oval in most columnar cells, spherical or nearly so in polyhedral cells; the more flattened these latter the more flattened also their nucleus. The nucleus consists of a limiting membrane and contents ; this latter is a minute network (Fromann, Flemming, Eimer, Klein)—intranuclear network; and in the meshes of it a hyaline substance. The small dots or ‘ granules ’ present in the meshes of this network are due, like those of the intracellular network, to fibrils viewed in optical section. Besides these there are contained in the intranuclear network occa- sionally—but not very frequently—one or more larger highly refractive particles (nucleoli), which in some instances represent the remnants of the primary substance out of which the intranuclear network has developed; in other instances they are part of the shrunken network. Epithelial cells are grouped together by the aid of a homogeneous clear semifluid albuminous substance, which is placed in thin layers between the individual cells; hence it is termed ‘ intercellular cement,’ or simply ‘cement substance.’ In sections through hardened specimens this cement-substance presents itself as a fine membrane separating neighbouring cells, but in the fresh state it is clear and viscid. Into this substance extend, from the subepithelial membrane, branched cells and their processes—connective-tissue cells (see further below). We shall have to return to this cement-substance on a later occasion. Owing to the soft condition of the cell-substance and the semi-fluid nature of the cement- substance, the epithelium covering a membrane is capable—temporarily of course—of changing to a certain extent its character, if this latter (membrane) is subjected—in a natural or artificial manner—to certain mechanical alterations, such as contraction and expansion. If e.g. the mem- brane be greatly expanded, the epithelium, if stratified, becomes less stratified ; or if only in a single layer, its cells become shorter in a vertical diameter, i.e. become flattened. If on the contrary the membrane shrinks ad maximum, the epithelium, if stratified, becomes more so, and if in a single layer, its cells become longer in a vertical diameter, i.e. thicker. Both columnar as well as pavement epithelial cells are occasionally provided on their free surface with a smaller or larger bundle of fine hairs—cilia, which are prolonga- tions of the fibrils of the intracellular network, as represented in woodcut 4, projecting through the thin membrane covering the free cell border. These cilia during the living condition of the cell are all simultaneously in rapid to-and-fro motion. It is quite possible that this movement is caused by the contraction of the intracellular network in this way : supposing the intracellular network contracts to one side in a horizontal diameter, each such contraction acts naturally on the lower end of the cilia, which thereby are pulled to 4' the same side, while the outer or freely projecting portion of the. cilia is driven in the opposite direction, each cilium representing a lever, the short arm