ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 252 of the latter. Around each Malpighian corpuscle there is always present an appreciable amount of fibrous-connective tissue (Ludwig and Zawarykin) with the corresponding connective-tissue cells ; it is more abundant in the young kidney than in the adult. This connective tissue forms a continuity with the connective tissue around the afferent arteriole, further with that around the interlobular artery, and finally with the connective tissue surrounding the large arterial trunks situated at the boundary between the cortex and medulla. A small amount of fibrous-connective tissue may be traced from the last-mentioned trunks on the arteriolae rectse into the boundary layer of the medulla (see below). The papillary part of the medulla (see below) contains a great amount of fibrous- connective tissue (Henle) separating the urinary tubules ; it increases in amount towards the apex of the papilla, and becomes continuous with the fibrous tissue of the surface of the papilla. The boundary layer between the medulla and the cortex possesses only a scanty intertubular connective tissue: this tissue consists of hyaline honey-combed mem- branous structures—the supporting tissue of the urinary tubules and the capillary blood- vessels—to which are applied from place to place flattened branched or spindle-shaped connective-tissue cells, each with an oval nucleus generally placed transversely to the long axis of the urinary tubules (Schweigger-Seidel). The constituents of the parenchyma are the urinary tubules. They commence with a caecal extremity in the Malpighian corpuscles and terminate with an opening on the free surface of the papilla. Owing to the peculiar arrangement of the tubules, a vertical section through the kidney exhibits three distinct regions : the cortex, the boundary layer (Grenzschichte) of Ludwig, and the papillary portion, the two last forming the medulla. Each papilla, with the section of boundary layer belonging to it, forms a pyramid of Malpighi. The papillary portion is uniformly vertically striated, the striae being due to urinary tubules and blood-vessels, all of them running parallel, straight and vertically to the apex of the papilla. The boundary layer is also uniformly striated, the striae having a parallel and longitudinal course, but they are grouped in columns, alternately opaque and light, the former being composed of more or less straight urinary tubules, the latter of straight blood-vessels (vasa recta). The cortex shows, in a uniform labyrinth of convoluted tubules, regularly disposed vertical, straight columns radiating towards the boundary layer ; being the direct continuations of the opaque columns (urinary tubules) of this latter, they are called the medullary rays.