223 STRUCTURE OF LARGE INTESTINE. The submucosa contains, as a rule, more fat-cell tissue than the small intestine, but otherwise shows the same structure. The lymph follicles occur usually as solitary follicles ; they are much larger than in the small intestine, and are either pushed through the muscularis mucosae with their summit, or, what is in some large intestines (pig) more commonly the case, the mucosa with its crypts of Lieberklihn is, to a greater or smaller extent, drawn down into the lymph follicle through a discontinuity of the muscu- laris mucosae. In these instances there is, consequently, to be found a pit lined with crypts of Lieberktihn, and leading into the depth to the lymph follicle. In man and carniverous animals a relation resembling this is occasionally met with. The abundance of lymph follicles and their arrangement (as Peyer’s patches) in the caecum of rabbit have been described and figured on p. 169. The processus vermiformis of man contains numerous lymph follicles, closely placed and arranged like those of the Peyer’s patches of the small intestine. The external muscle coat of the caecum and colon differs in so far from that of the small intestine that in some parts the circular and longitudinal layer is very thin or alto- gether wanting; in the septa of the well-known sacculi the circular bundles form groups, and similarly tire so-called ligaments represent accumulations of longitudinal bundles. In the rectum, whose mucosa is of conspicuous thickness, the external muscle coat is well developed, the circular layer being of great thickness. The nervous apparatus is the same as in the small intestine, except that the sub- mucous plexus of Meissner contains larger ganglia than that of the small intestine, and that the ganglion cells appear smaller in the former than in the latter. The plexus of Auerbach of the large is more developed than that of the small intestine, the nerve branches being more numerous, the plexus denser, and the ganglionic enlargements greater. In the toad I have observed large isolated multipolar ganglion cells situated in the meshes of the general plexus; some of their processes are connected with the branches of this, while others pass as fine fibrils directly amongst the muscle bundles, forming on these a more or less distinct transparent plate-like expansion. The distribution of blood-vessels and lymphatics is very similar to that of the small intestine. M M