ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 34 connective-tissue bundles cut in different directions, some longitudinally, others obliquely, and many others transversely, this being due to the fact that in the upper part of the skin the connective-tissue bundles cross each other in all different directions. The flattened connective-tissue corpuscles are seen here mostly in profile as spindle-shaped or angular corpuscles. The cause of this latter appearance has been explained above, viz. the corpuscles are composed of two or three plates (chief and secondary plates, Waldeyer) according to whether they have to adapt themselves to the surface of two or three bundles. Now, the difference between a section through ordinary normal skin or mucous membrane and one through cedematous skin or mucous membrane is very conspicuous. It is this : in a section through ordinary skin the lymphatic vessels are generally difficult to recognise, being found collapsed, whereas in oedema they are distended by the excessive amount of exuded plasma and are therefore easier discernible. And further, in ordinary skin or mucous membrane, as in other connective tissues, the bundles are arranged in groups, and between them we find the interfascicular lymph-spaces intercommunicating with each other; in cedematous skin or mucous membrane we find the lymph-spaces extending between almost all individual bundles, the excessive amount of plasma present in the tissue having separated these from one another. The oedema is usually, especially if of some duration, associated with emigration of colourless blood-corpuscles from the minute blood-vessels, and these (corpuscles) pass through the interfascicular lymph-spaces into the lymphatic vessels. But when, e.g. in acute inflammation, the migratory cells accumulate in too great numbers in these spaces —infiltration of the tissue with pus-corpuscles,—the connective-tissue bundles having become destroyed, the interfascicular spaces become all confluent, and in this way an abscess is formed. In this figure XIV. the direct and open connection of the interfascicular lymph- spaces with the lymphatic vessels is clearly shown, and hence also the unity of the endothelial cells lining the lymphatic vessels and the connective-tissue corpuscles situated in the interfascicular lymph-spaces. Fig. XIV. From the omentum of a rat, stained with logwood, showing con- nective-tissue bundles of various sizes anastomosing with each other; numerous nucleated spindle-shaped-looking cells—endothelial cells and connective-tissue cells viewed in profile ; a capillary blood-vessel showing the nucleated endothelial membrane forming its wall; several large coarsely granular cells, each with a large clear nucleus. These last- named cells correspond to the plasma-cells of Waldeyer; in the omentum of rat and mouse they become converted into fat-cells. The membrana propria of the alveoli of secreting glands, e.g. lacrymal-, mucous-, salivary-, and other glands, is a network of nucleated, branched, and flattened connective- tissue cells (Boll, v. Ebner, Watney, and others).