ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 146 cell belonging originally to the surrounding tissue, and identical with a connective- tissue cell, connected with the wall of the vessel. In both cases the solid pro- toplasmic filament becomes hollowed out, either by the lumen of the main vessel gradually penetrating into it, or by several distinct vacuoles appearing in it, which, by enlarging, become confluent with one another, and also with the lumen of the main vessel. Several connective-tissue cells, connected into a network, may, by separated vacuolation, and by subsequent confluence of these, give origin to a network of capillaries. In the embryo we meet with large sections of the vascular system, that are at first represented merely by solid nucleated protoplasmic cells, either spindle-shaped or branched, which, by the growth of their processes, become connected with one another so as to form a network. Their nuclei increase by division: at first these are irre- gularly distributed, but, through the growth of the cell-substance, become gradually shifted into more or less uniform distances, so that when through the appearance and confluence of vacuoles these solid protoplasmic cells and their processes are converted into hollow tubes, we find them (viz. the nuclei) more or less regularly distributed in the wall of the latter. There is also another mode of development of the first vessels in the embryo : this is in isolated cells, at first spherical, and containing one or more nuclei—some of them are large multinuclear giant cells—which through vacuolation are transformed into vesicles; these become gradually connected with one another by pro- toplasmic threadlike sprouts of their wall, and after these latter have become hollowed out, a network of vessels is established, which at first are very irregular, containing broad sinuous and narrow tubular parts, but in which these inequalities of diameter gradually disappear. The development of blood-vessels is the same in the embryo and adult, in normal and pathological processes. Strieker was the first who described the formation of capillary vessels as a process of hollowing out of solid nucleated protoplasmic cells ; then Afanasiefif, Klein, Balfour and others described it for the embryo chick, Arnold for the development of vessels in the inflamed cornea, Klein and Ranvier for the omentum of young and adult animals, Klein for the inflamed serous membranes, and especially Leboucq, who proved it for the development of vessels in the embryo and adult, under various normal and pathological conditions. In connection with the development of vessels in the embryo, out of solid protoplasmic cells, there is going on at the same time a formation, in their substance, of coloured and colourless blood corpuscles, so that the latter lie in the cavity of the former (Klein, Balfour, Leboucq). Blood corpuscles are also formed in the substance