ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 244 does not exist, and in the lung of the foetus that has not breathed yet, the alveoli are lined only by one kind of cells, viz. by small polyhedral granular-looking cells ; only after respiration has begun and the alveoli have become expanded and remain so, we find the two kinds of cells (Kuttner). But also in the adult a transition of the one kind of cells into the other can be observed, for during a maximum expansion of the alveoli most of the small polyhedral granular cells become flattened transparent placoids, which resume again their previous nature when the alveoli collapse. In the alveolar ducts, infundibula, and alveoli there appear larger or smaller circular or angular openings (Buhl and others) between the lining cell plates, similar to stomata (pseudo-stomata) in serous membranes. They are conspicuous only in the distended alveoli; when the latter are collapsed they are reduced into the smallest points or stigmata. As has been mentioned on a previous page in connection with the serous membranes, these pseudo-stomata correspond to the interstitial substance between the placoids lining the lumen of the alveoli. They lead into the lymph- canalicular system of the alveolar wall. The wall of the alveolar ducts and infundibula is made up chiefly of unstriped muscle cells, running in a circular manner; there is present a very small amount of fibrous tissue, and in it branched connective-tissue cells in their respective lymph- canalicular system. An uniform network of elastic fibres increases the thickness of the wall. It is barely necessary to add that the connective tissue, the elastic fibres, and the branched cells are continuations of the same elements of the ultimate bronchi. In the wall of the alveoli we meet chiefly with a network of broader and finer elastic fibres and a dense network of capillary blood-vessels, the latter being in close contact with the epithelium lining the alveolar cavity. Between and outside the capillaries we find a network of branched cells in their respective lymph-canalicular system, embedded in a homogeneous ground-substance; the branched cells with their processes—or the lymph- canalicular system respectively—penetrate between the alveolar epithelium, where they identify themselves with the interstitial substance (Klein, Kuttner). Bands of unstriped muscle cells are absent from the greater part of the alveolar wall ; they are seen to pass from the alveolar ducts and infundibula a short distance into the alveolar wall. As mentioned above, the tissue separating the alveoli of adjacent lobules is greater in amount than that between alveoli belonging to the same alveolar duct or infundibulum, and in the former case we see besides elastic networks also a certain amount of fibrous- connective tissue, belonging to the interlobular septa. The most important part of the alveolar septa are the capillary vessels. They are connected into an exceedingly dense network, which is intermediary between the