339 LYMPHATICS OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. The deep plexus lies close to the tarsal plate, a few vessels passing from the former through the latter join the lymphatics of the intermuscular connective tissue of the sphincter orbicularis. At the free margin of the lid the lymphatics of the conjunctiva palpebrse pass directly into those of the skin (Fuchs). The sinuses around the alveoli of the Meibomian glands (Czerny) are in direct connection with lymphatic vessels (Fuchs). The efficient lymphatics of all parts of the conjunctiva run towards the angles of the eyelids. As mentioned above, the conjunctiva in the adult human eye contains in many instances diffuse adenoid tissue. According to Stieda, and especially Morano, real lymph follicles occur also occasionally in the human conjunctiva, but this is denied by Sattler and others. In the case of many mammals definite groups of lymph follicles, like those of the tonsils, are a common occurrence about the inner eye angle (Kleinschmidt, Frey, Huguenin, Schmid and Waldeyer). Bruch saw them first in the conjunctiva of the lower eyelid of cattle, and they are here known as the glands of Bruch. In the third eyelid of the rabbit, sheep, cattle, these lymph follicles form a conspicuous part. Frey and Huguenin traced lymph sinuses and clefts, situated between the follicles, into the lymphatic vessels of the conjunctiva. Also Waldeyer followed the lymphatic vessels in the lower eyelid of cattle up to the glands of Bruch. The Nerves.—The nerve branches are composed of medullated fibres. When arrived at near the surface they lose their medullary sheath, but retain their hyaline sheath of Schwann and the nerve corpuscles, and anastomose into a plexus, the sub- epithelial plexus of Arnold. From this very fine primitive fibrils are given off, which, having run a short distance underneath the epithelium, ascend between the cells of this latter, where most of them terminate in a network (Helfreich, Morano). Krause showed the existence of small tactile corpuscles in some of the papillse near the cilise ; as in other places, they are also here connected with a medullated nerve fibre. The termination in end-bulbs of Krause in the conjunctiva of man and calf has been mentioned in Chapter XVIII. p. 129. In the conjunctiva palpebrse medullated nerve fibres accompanying the blood-vessels are described by Colosanti ; they lose their medullary sheath while perforating the membrana propria of the alveoli of the Mei- bomian glands, and terminate as a network of fine non-medullated nerve fibres between the gland cells.