364 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. even in the macula lutea, while other vertebrates, as the owl, rat, mouse, guinea pig, and rabbit, possess only small and few cones. In the animals with cones in the macula lutea, the further away from this latter the fewer the cones. Both between the outer members of the rods and more distinctly between the latter and those of the cones there exists a homogeneous transparent albuminous substance which is fluid in the fresh and living state (Schwalbe, Henle, H. Muller). Leydig observed first that the living retina possesses a red colour, but Boll investi- gated this more minutely in mammals and especially the frog, and found that in the living state and after preserving it in the dark, the retina possesses a purple red colour lodged in the outer members of the rods. On the influence of the sunlight, this gradually makes room for a satiny lustre, and then altogether fades away. Retinas of eyes kept in the dark, or in red, or yellow light, easily separate from the pigmented epithelium, owing to an active retraction of the pigmented fibrils which in the ordinary state pass from the above cells between the rods, as described above. Ktihne and Ewald showed that this colour is originally purple, the visual purple, and is a pigment diffused in the outer members of the rods ; it can be isolated; independent of the living state it can be reproduced when faded, by the contact with the pigmented epithelium ; the cones do not contain the visual purple, and in some retinae (Rhinolophus hyppoxideros, fowl, pigeon) also the rods are without it; in the human retina and in that of the ape (Macacus cyno- glossus) the rods about the ora serrata are likewise without it; where there exist numerous cones with coloured globules, the surrounding rods possess no visual purple. Boll found in the frog’s retina, besides the purple rods, also a few of a bright green colour. In the human retina, in the living state and after death, provided the retina had in the latter instances been kept in the dark, the visual purple has been noticed by Boll, Ktihne, Schmidt-Rimpler, Adler, and Nettleship. Adler found that the presence of the visual purple is in direct proportion to the intact normal function of the retina. 3. The Limitans Externa. The inner members of both rods and cones penetrate in a sharp line, which in profile view appears as a thin boundary line, through the limitans externa (M. Schultze), into die layer of the outer nuclei. The limitans externa possesses consequently smaller and larger holes, through which the members of both rods and cones respectively pass. Many of the rods and cones appear united with the limitans externa by minute lateral projections (Schwalbe). When viewed from the surface the limitans externa appears as a reticulated structure with fine striae in it (M. Schultze). From it issue fine fibrils to ensheath