158 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. numerous lymph-corpuscles; the greater majority of these possess a well-marked cell-protoplasm surrounding the relatively large nucleus, and are therefore to be considered as in a ripe state. Passing a current of fluid through the afferent lymphatics of the gland, it will be found that these lymph-corpuscles are readily removed from the cortical and medullary sinuses into the efferent lymphatics, and there is no reason why the similar thing should not happen already during life. It is supposed that these lymph-corpuscles are produced in the follicles and medullary cylinders, whence they are floated into the lymph-sinuses by the natural current of plasma passing from the capillary blood-vessels towards the lymphatics (Recklinghausen), similar to what is the case in all other tissues (see a future chapter). In this the lymph- corpuscles are very probably aided by their amoeboid movements. After having been discharged by the lymphatics into the venous system they represent colourless blood-corpuscles. (4) The blood-vessels and nerves. The arterial and venous branches are embedded in the trabeculae and septa, the networks of capillaries, including capillary arteries and veins, belong entirely to the adenoid tissue. The distribution of fine nerves is not known. B. Simple Lymphatic Glands. As such are to be considered the masses of adenoid tissue occurring in the shape of .spherical or oval lymph-follicles, singly or in groups, or as nodular and cord-like, or irregularly defined accumulations. The tonsils are folds of the oral mucous membrane containing a collection of lymph- follicles. The surface, like that of other parts of the mucous membrane of the oral cavity, is covered with stratified pavement epithelium ; underneath this is a connective-tissue mucosa, which contains closely aggregated spherical or oval lymph-follicles. In adults the number of them is very great and the mucosa is so much folded, that hereby numerous pit- or cleft-like depressions become apparent on its surface. Towards the epithelium of the surface the adenoid tissue of the follicles is more or less diffuse, penetrating in many places into the epithelium itself; here the epithelial cells give way before the ade- noid reticulum and the lymph-corpuscles. At the root of the tongue (Kolliker, Huxley) and in the upper part of the pharynx (Kolliker, Luschka) a similar accumulation of lymph-follicles is met with. The thymus gland is an aggregation of well-defined more or less cylindrical masses of adenoid tissue anastomosing into a network; these masses are separated from each