2*5 CHAPTER XXVI. THE SMALL AND LARGE INTESTINE. The wall of the small and large intestine consists, like that of the stomach, of the mucous membrane and the external muscle coat. The former is composed of: (i) the epithelium covering the free or internal surface; (2) the mucosa, which in the small intestine projects above the general surface as the villi; in both the small and large intestine the mucosa contains simple vertical gland tubes with blind extremities in the depth and openings on the free surface, the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; (3) the muscularis mucosae ; and (4) the submucosa. The latter or external muscle coat includes : (a) an inner or circular layer of unstriped muscle cells; (6) a middle or nervous layer, being a dense plexus of nerve branches and ganglia, the plexus myentericus of Auerbach; (c) an outer or longitudinal layer of unstriped muscle cells; and (d) the peritoneum or serous covering. The connective tissue of the submucosa is united with the connective tissue separating the muscle bundles of the muscle coat next to it, and the same relation exists between the connective tissue of the serous covering and that of the longitudinal muscle layer. A. The Small Intestine. 1) The epithelium. This is a single layer of beautiful columnar epithelial cells. The nature of the longitudinal striation of the cell substance, and the structure of the nucleus, the change the cells undergo during mucous secretion, and the nature of the striation of the free or basilar border, have been fully described and illustrated in Chapter II. It remains here to be added, that into the hyaline interstitial cement substance between the individual epithelial cells project filamentous or membranous structures, sometimes with nuclei, a sort of reticulum, continued from the tissue of the mucosa underneath. This relation has been referred to on a former occasion (Chapter XXII.). Lymph corpuscles are also occasionally met with between the epithelial cells (Watney). Where lymph follicles (see below) extend to the free surface, the epithelium of the surface becomes invaded both by the adenoid reticulum and the lymph corpuscles of the former; under these circumstances the epithelial cells become altered, being greatly reduced in size, and changed into small irregularly shaped corpuscles in which the nucleus forms the chief part. L L