111 GANGLION CELLS OF NERVE NUCLEI. The ganglion cells of the ‘ nucleus ’ of the facial nerve, in the depth of the fourth ventricle, are conspicuous by their size and their processes. The ganglion cells of the different portions of the ‘ nucleus ’ of the acoustic nerve are situated in the fossa rhomboidalis, near the surface, from the middle line to the pedunculi cerebelli; they vary in size and shape ; those of the outer ‘ nucleus ’ are fewer in number than those of the inner and anterior ‘ nucleus,’ the former being at the same time pyramidal in shape. The cells of the ‘ nucleus’ of the glossopharyngeus and vagus, situated in the fossa rhomboidalis, are spindle-shaped. The ganglion cells of the spinal accessory nerve belong to the grey matter of the medulla oblongata behind the central canal ; they are large and multipolar. Conspicuous by their size are the multipolar ganglion cells representing the ‘ nucleus ’ of the hypoglossal nerve, situated in front of the canal in the medulla oblongata. The olivary bodies contain in a matrix of grey nerve network slender multipolar ganglion cells. For a detailed account of the ‘nuclei’ of the cerebral nerves the reader is referred to the works of Lockhart Clarke, Stilling, and Meynert. IV) The cortex of the cerebellum shows the following layers :— 1) A broad cortical layer, the so-called molecular layer, containing in a ground- substance of nerve network (besides the neuroglia of the ordinary description) numerous dichotomously branched fibrillar processes ascending from the deeper layer (ganglion cells of Purkinje) and running towards the surface. On their way from the depth to the surface, the processes become finer and lose themselves partly in the nerve net- work, and partly in small pear-shaped multipolar ganglion cells (Sankey, Denissenko). The nerve network in the more superficial parrs of this layer possesses an arrangement more or less distinctly vertical to the surface, except at this latter, where it is more horizontal. The nerve network of the deeper part is of an uniform arrangement. This superficial layer should be called more appropriately the fibrillar layer. 2) A single layer of large spindle-shaped ganglion cells, Piirkinje s cells. Each of them possesses one branched process extending into the former layer, and an unbranched or axis-cylinder process passing into the depth. The substance of each ganglion cell is a minute network of fibrils extending into the branched processes. The nucleus is spherical or oval. Each cell is surrounded by a pericellular space. Meynert ascribes to them a thin hyaline capsule; according to Oberseiner this capsule is a network of neuroglia fibrils.