ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 396 The lymphatics will be considered in connection with the cochlea. The otoliths of the labyrinth of man and mammals form groups on the macula acustica both of the utricle and saccule, and also in the ampullae of man and birds, and are fixed to the epithelium by a tenacious gelatinous substance. They are either amorphous clumps or small crystals of carbonate of lime, chiefly of rhombic shapes. What remains of the otoliths after treatment with acids is, according to Henle, organic matter (otolith-cartilage). The Cochlea. In the cochlea, as in the rest of the labyrinth, we distinguish the membranous canal, canalis or ductus cochlearis, from the bony shell. This latter consists of the capsule, the modiolus, and in connection with it the lamina spiralis ossea. The bony part of the cochlea does not present any features of special histological interest, except the modiolus. In this ascends the cochlear nerve, composed of medullated nerve fibres, which, like those of the optic nerve, possess neither the hyaline sheath of Schwann nor the nerve corpuscles. They are arranged in bundles, which are contained in larger or smaller osseous canals. Towards the upper parts these canals become fewer and larger; in some cochleae, e.g. guinea-pig, we find the bundles of nerve fibres, especially in the middle and upper parts of the modiolus, contained in a common large canal. Within each bundle are found numerous nuclei belonging to connective-tissue corpuscles which correspond to the endoneurium. As the cochlear nerve descends in the modiolus and passes the root of the lamina spiralis ossea, it gives off numerous branches to, or rather receives them from, the ganglion spirale Corti, contained in the canalis ganglionaris. There exist considerable differences with regard to the position of this ganglionic layer ; in some instances it belongs already to the lamina spiralis ossea (cat), while in others (guinea-pig) t is close to, but out- side it. The ganglion cells are all bipolar, each process being continued as a medullated nerve fibre (see Chapter XVI.). Their nucleus is comparatively large. The thin connective-tissue septa composed of fine bundles of fibres, but chiefly of nucleated cell plates, which in the efferent nerve branches separate the nerve fibres, are also traceable into the ganglionic layer, where they are seen running as septa between the neighbouring ganglion cells.