345 CORNEAL CORPUSCLES. a very dense reticulum of fibrils; this substance is continued into the processes (see Chapter IV.). As has been stated on p. 29, this distinction into a ground-plate and a ‘ granular ’-branched part of the corneal corpuscle probably accounts for the opposing views of the nature of the corneal corpuscles : Hoyer and Schweigger-Seidel consider- ing them merely as endotheloid plates without processes, these latter being artificial products; Strieker, Rollett, Waldeyer, and others, as more or less branched cells, while still others, Thanhofifer, Thin, Henle, assume altogether two types: one, the endotheloid cells and the other, the branched typical corneal corpuscles. The nucleus in most instances is limited by a distinct membrane and includes a delicate intranuclear reticulum, which under certain reagents shows one or two larger collections, nucleoli. But in the fresh state and under suitable circumstances it can be ascertained that the reticulum is uniform and is connected with the intracellular fibrils. We meet with many corneal corpuscles, whose nucleus does not possess any definite membrane, and whose intranuclear network is therefore not separated from the intracellular one, but owing to the much greater density of this latter (intracellular network) is nevertheless well marked off from it. The corneal corpuscles are endowed with slight contractility, observed in the normal state, under the influence of thermal, electrical and mechanical influences (v. Reck- linghausen, Kuhne, Mayzel, Rollett, Waldeyer), and under inflammatory conditions (Strieker and Norris, Rollett and others). In the normal state very few migratory cells can be detected in the lacunar system of the cornea, but under inflammatory conditions their number greatly increases (pus corpuscles), and they may be seen squeezing themselves through even the finest canaliculi. Owing to their moving in the lymph-canalicular system they then present themselves chiefly in elongated shapes. 4) The elastica posterior or the membrana Denemeti is a very strongly resistent elastic membrane. It is present in the cornea of all mammals as a very conspicuous structure. Although of a hyaline aspect it is nevertheless composed of bundles of very delicate fibrils (Tamamscheff, Schweigger-Seidel). 5) The posterior surface is covered with a single layer of polyhedral slightly flattened granular-looking endothelial cells, each with a single oval slightly flattened clear nucleus containing under some conditions a single or double nucleolus. Klebs, Strieker, and Norris attribute to these cells amoeboid movement. According to v. Ewetsky, each endothelial cell is composed of a superficial hyaline plate and a subjacent protoplasmic nucleated portion. Swaen maintains that the endothelium of the frog’s cornea consists of two layers : a superficial layer of proto- plasmic contractile, and a deep layer of hyaline non-contractile cells.