42 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER VI. ADIPOSE TISSUE. Adipose or fat-cell tissue in its ripe state possesses several characters which place it in a group with glandular tissue (Toldt, Klein). It is a tissue possessed of an afferent artery, one or more efferent venous branches, and a rich network of capillary vessels supplying the elements of the tissue, viz. the fat-cells. The meshes of the network are relatively small, in some places embracing only one, in others two or three elementary fat-cells. These latter are arranged, by means of connective tissue, in smaller or larger groups, lobules, and these again are aggregated into lobes. As in other gland-tissue, so also here each lobe and lobule have their respective branch of artery and vein (or veins). The elements of ripe adipose tissue, such as occurs in continuous masses in the subcutaneous, submucous, serous, and subserous tissue, in the intermuscular and other loose cellular connective tissue, are the so-called fat-cells ; they are closely aggregated, apparently spherical cells, containing a large fat-globule occupying the bulk of the cell. The protoplasm of the cell is reduced to a thin mantle surrounding that globule on all sides, and containing at one place an oblong more or less compressed nucleus. Between the fat-cells of a lobule there may be demonstrated, besides capillary blood-vessels from place to place, flattened nucleated connective-tissue cells. At the free edge of the lobules also a certain amount of fibrous connective tissue, in the form of thin bundles, can be traced between the fat-cells. In some places, as in subcutaneous and submucous tissue, intermuscular and other loose connective tissue, the fat-cell tissue is derived from ordinary fibrous connective tissue in which the connective-tissue cells, having increased in number, become changed into fat-cells (Flemming) ; increasing in size, this tissue becomes richly vascularised. In other places, e.g. serous membranes, the great mass of the fat-tissue is derived from a peculiarly changed connective tissue (Klein); in many places (especially in connection with the large vessels) there appear in the connective-tissue matrix of the serous mem- brane patches, nodules or cords, which are made up of multiplying connective-tissue cells. As the number of the cells increases, the matrix in which they are embedded becomes transformed into a reticulum ; lymph-corpuscles appear amongst them, and after the tissue has become richly vascularised by an afferent artery, efferent vein (or veins) and a rich network of capillaries, it resembles in morphological respects lymphatic tissue. The