405 THE LAMINA RETICULARIS. The outer division is the lamina reticularis proper, it possesses circular or oval openings through which the ciliated bases of the outer hair cells project. The matrix of the lamina reticularis is raised slightly like a special rim at these openings, and hence ap- pears here double-outlined; this gives rise to the distinction of the rings of Bottcher. The hair cells being placed alternately in longitudinal rows, also their rings are arranged simi- larly in rows, and they are counted, like the hair cells, from the outer pillar as the first, second, third, or even fourth row of rings. The parts of the membrane between the rings, owing to their being shaped like the phalanges of the fingers, are distinguished as the phalanges of Deiters; these naturally are also placed alternately in rows. When viewing this division of the lamina reticularis from above and passing from the arch of Corti outwards we observe : the spatula-like head-plates of the outer and inner pillars forming the first row of phalanges alternating with the hair cells (or their rings) of the first row; then a second row of phalanges similarly alternating with the hair cells (or their rings) of the second row, then a third row of phalanges alternating with the hair cells (or their rings) of the third row, and in the cases in which there is a fourth row of hair cells (see above) there is of course a further row of phalanges. The substance of the lamina reticularis loses itself as a thin cuticle between the free ends of Hensen’s supporting cells. Owing to this regular alternation, it follows that the rings of the first and third row and the phalanges of the second row follow each other in straight, transverse lines ; and similarly the head-plates of the outer and inner pillars, i.e. the phalanges of the first row, the rings of the second row, the phalanges of the third row, and if there be a fourth row of rings, also these latter follow each other in straight transverse lines. The hair cells being arranged in a slanting direction, it follows that while the ciliated basis is held in the above ring, the body of the cell is covered, as with a shield, by the phalanx of the next outer row (Gottstein) ; and the comparison becomes still more justified, if it is remembered that the above-named phalangeal process of the hair cell is fixed to this very phalanx. The inner division of the lamina reticularis commences in a somewhat similar manner, viz. the short or inner process of the heads of the inner pillars form the first phalanges, alternating with the inner hair cells or their rings ; these latter correspond in appearance to the first row of the outer rings (Deiters). But there being no further hair cells, the lamina loses itself as a thin cuticle amongst the basis of the inner supporting cells. As mentioned above, that portion of the boundary of the cochlear canal which lies between the habenula perforata and the inner angle (angulus vestibularis inferior) is the crista spiralis, with the sulcus spiralis interims between its tympanic and vesti- bular labium.