ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 726 One of the latest parts to appear is the mouth of the hair-follicle. The hair itself and the inner root sheath, having reached the stratum corneum of the surface, for a short time continue to grow underneath it for a considerable distance in a hori- zontal or slightly oblique direction; ultimately, however, the stratum corneum is broken, and the mouth of the follicle having thus been established, the hair henceforth grows beyond the free surface, loosing the adhering parts of the inner root sheath from the neck outwards. As soon as the rudiment of the papilla makes its appearance, the hair-follicle, then still a solid cylindrical mass of cells, pushes out, near its connection with the surface epithelium, a small knob composed of the same polyhedral cells as the hair- follicle ; this knob gradually elongates, divides at its extremity, and its branches are converted into the alveoli of the sebaceous gland. The duct is therefore an outgrowth of the neck of the hair-follicle. According to Lowe, the correctness of whose statements must be questioned, the marginal layer of epithelial cells lining the limiting membrana propria of the alveoli of the sebaceous gland is alone derived from the deepest layer of columnar cells of the epidermis, while the rest of the gland cells are offsprings of the stratum corneum. The fully developed foetal hair (lanugo) is very thin, its follicle and papilla do not reach into the subcutaneous tissue. It becomes replaced in many localities soon after birth by a much coarser hair, whose follicle and papilla pass down into the depth of the subcutaneous tissue. This new hair is produced from the outer root sheath of the primary hair-follicle (Kolliker), as will be presently described. Every hair in the young child, as well as in the adult, sooner or later undergoes a peculiar change, which leads to the formation of Henle’s hair knob, or the intercalated hair (Schalthaar) of Gotte, or the bedhair (Beethaar) of Unna, differing in several im- portant respects from the normal or perfect hair, as described on a former page, and called by Unna the papillary hair. The mode of change of the latter into the bedhair is the following : the cells of the bulb over the papilla cease to multiply, and consequently the hair and its inner root sheath stop growing; first the inner, then the outer root sheath atrophy; but the root of the hair remains connected with the papilla for some time by a thin streak of cells ; ultimately also this disappears. This process of atrophy extends up to near the point where the arrector pili is attached to the hair-sac ; here the external root sheath becomes conspicuously enlarged and the hair root terminates in it with Henle’s ‘hair knob,’ being an enlarged broomlike extremity, which with its fibrous horny elements branches out amongst the adjacent cells of the outer root sheath. The inner root sheath is wanting just at the extremity, but is met with at a short distance higher up. The hair continues to grow at its knob at the expense of the adjacent