127 PACINIAN CORPUSCLES. covered with stratified pavement epithelium. Here also fine (elementary) nerve fibrils enter the epithelium (Chrschtschonovitsch, Elin, Krohn), and ascend towards the super- ficial layers, giving off one or the other horizontal branch. It is not quite ascertained whether they terminate freely in knoblike swellings or whether they are connected into a terminal network. Special Terminal Organs. A. Pacinian corpuscles. These corpuscles, more appropriately called Vater’s corpuscles, are oblong more or less elliptical or pointed corpuscles, varying considerably in size. They have a wide distribution in man and other vertebrates; they are most numerously found in the sub- cutaneous tissue of the volar side of the hand and foot of man, near the tibia of rabbit, in the mesentery of cat, in the beak and near the tibia of birds. Each Pacinian corpuscle is connected with a medullated nerve fibre which, with its thick sheath, represents the stalk of the corpuscle. 1. The corpuscle proper consists of a great number of capsules placed in a con- centric manner around a central elongated clear mass ; it shows, therefore, a concentric striation, each stria corresponding to a capsule seen in profile. The capsules are thin at the periphery and near the central clear mass ; the corpuscle appears, therefore, when seen under a low power, to be more densely striated in the parts just mentioned. Each capsule is made up of the following parts : (a) a hyaline ground membrane, probably elastic ; (b) in this ground membrane are embedded fine connective-tissue fibres. These are arranged, either regularly in one or two layers, or irregularly, but always in a transverse manner, (c) On the inner surface of the ground membrane is an endothelial membrane, composed of a single layer of flattened nucleated endothelial cells. The above ground membrane corresponds to the intercapsular ‘ albuminous fluid ' mentioned by most observers ; the capsules are not, at any rate not in the fresh state, separated by any fluid, but are in immediate contact with one another (Huxley). The endothelial membrane lining the capsules shows, with nitrate of silver, the usual network of dark lines (Hoyer) indicative of the outlines of the individual endo- thelial cells. That the capsules contain, besides these endothelial cells, also fibrous- connective tissue has been known through Henle and Kolliker, Keferstein, Krause, Ciaccio, Key and Retzius, and others, but it is chiefly Key and Retzius who have most elaborately investigated the structure of the capsules, and various very minute differences existing in different Pacinian corpuscles. Neighbouring capsules are often branched and connected with one another by thin fibres (Huxley, Henle and Kolliker, Keferstein, Hoyer, Ciaccio, and others).