ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 232 d. Ducts of the pyloric glands. g. The gland tubes cut in different directions. m. Muscularis mucosae. v. Villi. c. Crypts of Lieberkiihn. 1. A solitary lymph follicle. s. Submucosa, containing the glands of Brunner. Figs. IV. VI. and VII. copied from Watney, ‘Philosophical Transactions,’ 1876. II. Fig. IV. Part of a villus of a hedgehog killed during absorption of fat. The intestine was hardened in osmic acid. Magnifying power about 450. /. Chyle vessel filled with chyle globules. The matrix of the surrounding tissue shows the minute (black) chyle granules in the reticulum or interstitial substance. Fig. V. Part of the plexus myentericus of Auerbach, from the small intestine of a new-born child. Magnifying power about 45. The details of structure are shown in fig. X. Fig. VI. From the same intestine as figure V., representing a surface view of the epithelium covering a villus; the section had been treated (after osmic acid staining) with caustic potash. The chyle granules (black) are contained, not in the epithelial cells themselves—seen here endwise as dark shaded polygonal zones—but in the interstitial or cement substance between these cells. The clear spaces are the openings of goblet cells. Magnifying power about 850. Fig. VII. From a section through a villus of duodenum of dog. Magnifying power about 550. The figure represents a small portion of the tissue of a villus near the summit, which is supposed to lie on the right. l. Central chyle vessel; the nucleated endothelial plates of its lower wall are indicated. m. Unstriped muscle cells running alongside of the chyle vessel towards the apex of the villus. v. Blood capillary in transverse section. The nucleated endotheloid cells around the blood and chyle vessel belong to the stroma of the villus, and together with the fine reticulum or interstitial substance between them form its principal constituents. Fig. VIII. Copied from Fry’s ‘Histology,’ fig. 109, showing the distribution of the lymphatic vessels in the villi, mucous and submucous tissue. Vertical section through part of a human Peyer’s patch. a. Intestinal villi with their central chyle vessel or vessels.