271 STRUCTURE OF SEMINAL CELLS. and anastomosing with one another by relatively few lateral branchlets. These fibrils, or rods, stain very well in dyes, and, when looked at under a low power, present them- selves as spherical, or more or less elongated, isolated dots, that is, according to whether they are viewed in optical transverse, oblique, or longitudinal section; but, under a high power and on careful focussing, it is soon ascertained that they are in reality fibrils or rods arranged in more or less complex convolutions. Next to this outer layer of cells, but nearer to the lumen, are the inner seminal cells (celluli seminales of Sertoli) ; only in few tubes are these cells limited to one or two layers, generally they are arranged in more than two layers. These inner cells are polyhedral where they are situated closely side by side, but more spherical next the lumen of the tube, because more loosely connected with one another; they are of about the same size, and composed of a transparent substance with faint outlines, and include a single nucleus ; this is identical with the nucleus of the above second type, viz. it is spherical, does not possess any limiting membrane, and contains a beautiful convolution of thick fibrils or rods in a transparent matrix. Whether the cells lie closely side by side, as is the case with those of the outer layer and those immediately next to it, or not, as those near the lumen of the seminal tube, they are always separated by a transparent interstitial substance; in the former case there is only a trace of it. A nucleated reticulum, in the meshes of which the seminal cells are contained, is found in some places to occupy that interstitial substance. This reticulum, first discovered by Sertoli, and called germ-reticulum by v. Ebner, supporting cells by Merkel, is not accepted by Mihalkovics ; but there can be no doubt about its existence in the seminal tubes (Afanassiew). Its significance is probably no other than that of a similar reticulum, mentioned in former chapters in connection with various other glands, viz. it is continuous with the membrana propria and forms a support for the lining epithelial cells. Now, when examining more carefully the fibrils of the nuclei of the second type of the outer cells, and those of the nuclei of the inner cells, it will be found that their arrangement is subject to certain definite variations : (1) either the fibrils form a uniform convolution, that is, they are distributed uniformly throughout the nucleus, being more or less twisted and united into a network ; or (2) the fibrils are arranged in the periphery, but transversely in one and the same direction ; a nucleus of this sort, when viewed in the direction of the fibrils, appears as if transversely ribbed, but viewed vertical to it, as if dotted at the periphery ; or (3) the fibrils radiate towards one or two centres. All these differences indicate changes preparatory to division, as is now well known from the works of Strassburger, Hertwig, Mayzel, Eberth, Balfour, Schleicher, Peremeschko, and especially Flemming, whose very extensive and beautiful observations on the changes of the nucleus during division have been found fully confirmed by myself