END-BULBS OF CONJUNCTIVA. 129 of the central clear mass, branches into two or three capillary vessels. The capsules of the Pacinian corpuscle, including the endothelial membranes, are continued on the arterial adventitia, and the Pacinian corpuscle appears in this case to possess two stalks, one nervous and one vascular. The intercapsular ligament, occasionally present, is merely a blood-vessel (Key and Retzius). B. The end bulbs of the conjunctiva. These were discovered by Krause, and are known as Krause’s end-bulbs. They are found in the deeper layer of the conjunctiva of the eyeball, especially near the corneal margin. 1. In the calf they are oblong, elliptical, or cylindrical, or spindle-shaped straight or curved corpuscles, in which a medullated nerve fibre, after a longer or shorter course, terminates. This is an ordinary medullated nerve fibre, possessed of a sheath of Schwann, nerve corpuscles, and Ranvier’s nodes ; it contains in addition a thicker or thinner laminated outer or Henle’s sheath, with flattened nucleated cells. This latter passes on as the capsule of the end-bulb. Inside the capsule lies a transparent, or slightly longitudinally striated cylindrical or spindle-shaped mass, representing the bulk of the end-bulb (Longworth, Key and Retzius). In the centre of this lies the terminal fibre, which is a prolongation of the axis cylinder of the nerve fibre. It terminates generally in a pointed or rounded extremity, occasionally in a budlike enlargement similar to that in the Pacinian corpuscles (Key and Retzius). 2. In man they are spherical or elliptical, and, like those in the calf, possess a special capsule ; this shows the same structure as that in the bulbs of the calf, being also a continuation of the sheath surrounding the medullated nerve fibre. According to Key and Retzius, this latter on entering the bulb loses in some instances its medullary sheath, and the axis cylinder having divided into two or more branches ends in the matrix of the bulb. In many other cases the nerve fibre retains its medullary sheath, and becomes greatly convoluted, but ultimately loses the medullary sheath, and its axis cylinder having divided into thin branchlets terminates in the matrix of the bulb. The matrix is a granular mass containing larger and smaller spherical or oval nuclei, but there are no definite cell boundaries to be perceived between the nuclei (Key and Retzius). This granular mass is in reality a dense network of fine fibrils, in which the primitive fibrils of the axis cylinder and its branches terminate. C. The end-bulbs of the genital organs. Fick, Kolliker, Bense, and others, and especially Krause, demonstrated peculiar end- bulbs in the penis and clitoris ; each end-bulb is connected with a medullated nerve fibre.