440 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. and in the Descemet’s endothelium of the cornea of the rabbit and pig, and in the branched corpuscles of the inflamed cornea. Grobben in the seminal cells of astreus. Selenka in the ovum of toxopneustes variegatus. Schleicher in the cartilage cells. Peremeschko in the epithelial and connective-tissue cells and in the blood corpuscles of the embryo newt. Flemming in a great variety of cells of the embryo salamander, as epithelial and connective-tissue cells, in the nuclei of blood corpuscles, and of nerve fibres, in the sperm cells of the adult salamander, and in vegetable cells. I myself described it in the epidermis of the adult newt, in the epithelium of the bladder of the frog, and in the epithelium of the tail of the tadpole. Perez saw it in the ovum of helix aspera. Bergh in the ovum of ccelenterata. J. Arnold in morbid growths, as sarcomata and carcinomata. Mark in the ovum of limax. Jakimovitsch in the unstriped muscle cells of the stomach of amphibia and mammals. The most extensive observations in the vertebrates are those by Mayzel and Flemming. The treatises of this latter observer on the subject of the indirect division of nuclei, are those which I consider the most thorough and exhaustive, they are very copiously and beautifully illustrated and are published in the ‘Archiv f. Mikrosk. Ana- tomic,’ vol. xvi. p. 302, and in the same Archiv, vol. xviii. p. 151. As regards the indirect division of the nuclei in the cells of the vegetable kingdom, Strassburger was the first who observed it here, and together with Butschli is indeed the first who at all noticed and described it; in his admirable book above quoted he has treated this subject very thoroughly. I shall describe in the following the indirect division observed by myself in the nuclei of the epithelial cells of the skin of the tadpole, of the skin and bladder of the adult newt, in those of the epithelium and endothelium of the cornea of the newt, frog and toad ; in the nuclei of the endothelium of the mesentery of the newt, in those of the epidermis of the sheep, and in those of the seminal epithelium of the mammalian testis. In all these instances I find my observations coincide in the more essential points with the description given by Flemming. On Plate XLVIII. I have illustrated the most important stages in this indirect division. With Flemming we may speak of the whole process as of the Karyokinesis, since a spontaneous movement of the nucleus and of its parts is of great importance and indeed is essential for the whole process of the indirect division. Such movement has been directly observed in the vertebrates by Mayzel, Schleicher, Flemming, and Peremeschko. The nuclei of the epithelium of the bladder of the newt are very typical for those of