395 THE MACULA AND CRISTA ACUSTICA. acoustic hairs. But in mammals this is most decidedly not the case; in the macula acustica of the guinea-pig’s labyrinth, viewed in profile and from the surface, it is evident that the cylindrical or conical epithelial cells have nothing to do with the acoustic hairs; these distinctly belong to the spindle-shaped sensory cells. Pritchard first described a hyaline cuticle covering the epithelium of the macula acustica of the cat, and he very justly considers it analogous to the lamina reticularis of the organ of Corti (see below). This observer finds that the cuticle contains holes through which pass the acoustic hairs, but I find in the guinea-pig, where this cuticle attains to a very conspicuous thickness, that there are two kinds of holes, small ones, through which project the acoustic hairs, and larger ones for the basis of the conical epi- thelial cells. In a bird’s-eye view of the macula acustica of the saccule these relations are very well shown. Kuhn found a similar cuticle on the surface of the epithelium of the macula and crista acustica of batrachize ; he calls it the membrana tectoria. At the sides of the macula and crista acustica, near the foot of these prominences, the epithelium becomes suddenly thinner, but remains columnar ; it does not contain any spindle-shaped cells, and consequently also no acoustic hairs projecting over the surface, but there is still left a trace of a cuticle on the free surface of the epithelium. Pigment occurs occasionally (guinea-pig) as a special layer of flattened irregular cells in the tunica propria and close to the epithelium. This pigment layer extends only to the foot of the macula or crista acustica. The canalis reuniens of Hensen, joining the saccule with the canalis cochlearis, is of the same structure as the former; a single layer of flattened epithelium lines the delicate tunica propria, and outside this is a fibrous coat connected with the periosteum. The aqueductus vestibuli contains a minute membranous tube lined with an epi- thelium composed of a single layer of polyhedral cells (Bottcher, Key and Retzius) ; its fibrous wall contains capillary blood-vessels. It divides into two branches, one of which opens into the utricle and the other into the saccule, thus forming the communication between the endolymph of these two organs. Hasse for this reason calls it the ductus endolymphaticus. The membranous tube terminates with a caecal extremity, the saccus endolymphaticus of Hasse, within the dura mater (Key and Retzius). The ultimate branches of the arteries and the capillary networks are situated in the outer or fibrous coat of the utricle, saccule, and semi-circular canals. 1 he vessels are very much more numerous and the network denser in the macula and crista acustica than in the other parts.