i ;8 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 13. The lymphatics of the alimentary, respiratory, urinary and genital organs, those of the skin and sense organs, will be described in connection with these various tissues. 14. Development of lymphatic vessels. The lymphatic vessels develop, both under normal and pathological conditions, after the same plan as blood-vessels, viz. by a process of vacuolation of branched cells (Klein) ; from the wall of a lymphatic vessel solid proto- plasmic filamentous processes grow out, and these, gradually becoming hollowed out, form lateral branches. In some cases we find a series of vacuolated cells, vesicles, which having been brought into contact are gradually fused so as to form one continuous vessel. In other instances a single cell grows into a nucleated cylindrical, single or branched band or filament, which by vacuolation becomes converted into a vessel, in the same manner as described of blood-vessels in Chapter XIX. The differentiation of the protoplasmic wall of the young lymphatic into endothelial cells occurs at a later stage. PLATE XXX. Fig. XIII. Copied from Klein’s ‘Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ I. From the central tendon of rabbit after staining with nitrate of silver, showing the connection of a lymphatic capillary, indicated on the left and upper part of the figure by its endothelial wall, with the lymph-canalicular system of the pleural serosa; the lacunae are represented as more or less branched clear spaces in the dark ground-substance. In some lacunae a nucleus is seen belonging to the connective-tissue corpuscle. t. Transition of the endothelial cells of the lymphatic capillary into the connective- tissue corpuscles contained in the lymph-canalicular system. Magnifying power about 300. Fig. XIV. From a preparation of the gall-bladder of guinea-pig. 1. Lymphatic vessels underneath the serous covering of the gall-bladder, forming a plexus. The wall of the lymphatics is marked blue, owing to a precipitate on the inner side of their wall of Berlin blue injected by the method of ‘ puncture.’ v. Semilunar valves seen in profile and indicated by an accumulation of injection matter. b. Ramifications of blood-vessels, arteries, capillaries, and veins, belonging to the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder, and accidentally injected at the same time. Magnifying power about 25. Fig. XV. Copied from Klein’s ‘ Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,’ I. Part of the peritoneal surface of a silver-stained preparation of the central tendon of diaphragm of rabbit.