STRUCTURE OF NERVE FIBRES. »9 PLATE XVIII. Figures IX. XI. and XIII. copied from Axel Key and Retzius, Part II. Plates VII. and VIII. Figures VII. and VIII. b drawn under a magnifying power of about 400 ; figures IX. XI. and XIII. under one of about 750; and figures VIII. a, X. and XII. under about 300. Fig. VII. Medullated nerve fibres of sciatic nerve of frog, acted upon by chromate of ammonia. a. Showing in a surface view the reticular framework of the medullary sheath. b. The meshes are here much larger, owing probably to a swelling up of the fatty matter contained in the reticulum. c. Two nerve fibres, showing the deeply stained axis cylinder, the periaxial space, the medullary sheath, apparently composed of rods, and the fine sheath of Schwann. The left fibre shows a nucleus of the outer sheath, the right one shows a Ranvier’s node ; the sheath of Schwann is incorrectly drawn, it ought to be constricted at the node. Fig. VIII. Two non-medullated nerve fibres of mesentery of newt, acted upon by chromate of ammonia, a, deeply stained with haematoxylin ; b, unstained. a shows an exceptionally broad wavy hyaline sheath of Schwann, surrounding the axis cylinder, which is here a small bundle of primitive fibrils. Two nuclei, show- ing the intranuclear network, belong to the nerve corpuscles of the sheath. b. A non-medullated nerve fibre that has left its sheath of Schwann, but is still covered with a very elongated cell-plate, nerve corpuscle, containing a long nucleus. This latter shows a beautiful reticulum. The cell-plate is in reality folded, and the axis cylinder, here a bundle of elementary fibrils, is fixed in the fold. Fig. IX. Part of a medullated nerve-fibre of brachial plexus of bird. The nerve had been prepared with perosmic acid ; it shows the medullary sheath composed of shorter and longer imbricated sections, the hyaline sheath of Schwann, a nucleated nerve corpuscle between this and the medullary sheath, and pressed into a shallow excavation of the latter. Fig. X. Two nerve fibres of sciatic nerve of dog, after chromic acid and spirit; showing the axis cylinder, the nodes of Ranvier, the sheath of Schwann and nuclei, apparently belonging to this latter. There are traces of medullary substance to be seen as blotches inside the sheath of Schwann. p