THE LAYER OF GANGLION CELLS. 369 pass through the inner granular layer in a radial direction. Retzius and also Schwalbe consider these the only nerve fibrils passing through this layer. According to M. Schultze and others the reticulum of both the outer and inner granular layer is partly supporting (connective-tissue), partly nervous tissue; but according to Schwalbe the whole reticulum is supporting tissue. Golgi and Manfredi found in this layer the same branched, flattened cells as in the outer granular layer. 8. The Layer of Ganglion Cells. Except in and around the macula lutea the ganglion cells are arranged in a single layer. In the former they form several layers. In man and mammals the ganglion cells are conspicuous by their large size ; in that of the batrachiae they are very small, the cell substance being reduced to a thin layer around the nucleus. This latter is in all instances large and spherical, and limited by a distinct membrane. Its contents are a clear substance with a more or less distinct honeycombed reticulum, and in the young state one or two nucleoli (Schwalbe). Also these nucleoli include a delicate dense reticulum (Frommann). The cell-substance is like that of other ganglion cells, a network of fibrils (M. Schultze). Their processes are of two kinds : (a) each ganglion cell sends generally one process towards the next following layer of nerve-fibres (Bowman) and becomes in fact continuous with a nerve fibre (Corti, Kolliker, H. Muller and others); occa- sionally this process is double and both pass into nerve fibres ; (6) towards the inner granu- lar layer each ganglion cell sends off one or two branched processes : these break up entirely into fine fibrils, identifying themselves with the reticulum of the inner granular layer (M. Schultze). But according to Retzius, Manz, Schwalbe, and others, this process or processes pass simply through the inner granular layer and reach the inner nuclear layer. The ganglion cells anastomose with one another in some instances (Corti, Steinlin, Santi Sirena). The ganglion cells are separated from one another by the radial or Muller’s fibres, which, while passing here give off lateral fibrous membranous homogeneous structures, anastomosing into a sort of honeycomb, in whose meshes lie the ganglion cells ; their processes are surrounded by a clear fluid albuminous substance. A few flattened nucleated cells (Golgi and Manfredi) besides the blood-vessels, to be mentioned below, are also contained in this layer. 9. The Layer of Nerve-Fibres. This layer is thickest immediately around the papilla nervi optici in a direction vertically upwards and downwards, and still more so at the sides (Liebrich); it gradu- ally diminishes in thickness towards the ora serrata. In the macula lutea the nerve fibres