230 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. by unstriped muscle cells (Heidenhain). The epithelium lining the small ducts is made up of short columnar cells, that of the large ducts is distinctly columnar. The bile ducts form a network amongst themselves (Beale). At the margin of the lobule the small ducts are much branched ; their branches are narrow tubes with a very small lumen, and are lined with a single layer of small more or less flattened epithelial cells; a distinct membrana propria forms the outer boundary. These so constructed tubes correspond to the intermediary portion of the ducts of other glands (see previous chapters). Now, the intermediary portion of the bile ducts joins the substance of the lobule in this manner : the lumen of the former passes directly into the network of bile capil- laries, while the flattened epithelium, changing of course suddenly its appearance and nature, forms a direct continuity with the mass of the liver cells. At the point of the union of these two the difference between the respective cells is sufficiently striking: the cell-body and nucleus of the liver cells are much larger than the corresponding parts of the cells of the intermediary duct ; the nucleus of the latter forms the most conspicuous part of the cell, it stains deeply in dyes and is surrounded by very little cell substance ; the breadth of the whole intermediary tube is greatly inferior to the diameter of two liver cells. The membrana propria is not continued into the lobule on to the surface of the liver cells, as is maintained by Beale, Pflliger and others. The interlobular connective tissue, as well as the capsule of the liver, possesses net- works of lymphatics ; those of the latter, viz. the superficial lymphatics, form an exceed- ingly dense network of fine vessels, denser even than the blood capillaries of the branches of the hepatic artery (Hering). With this network communicates the network of the deep lymphatics, viz. those situated in the connective tissue of the portal canals ; the vessels of this system are fine and large vessels ; the latter have valves. Networks of these interlobular lymphatics surround the branches of the portal vein as well as those of the hepatic vein (Kolliker, v. Wittich), and also the branches of the hepatic duct (v. Wittich). According to Budge and Kowalewsky branches of the hepatic vein are com- pletely ensheathed in lymphatic vessels; a fact easily confirmed. The fine interlobular lymphatic vessels are, at the margin of the lobules, in communication with minute spaces extending between the liver cells and the capillary blood vessels (MacGillavry, Frey and others), and containing the branched connective-tissue corpuscles mentioned above. Under normal conditions these intralobular lymph spaces are very insignificant, but may become much distended and conspicuous under abnormal conditions through accumulation of fluid or formed matter. According to Kisselew and Chrzonszewsky small lymph follicles may be present in the interlobular connective tissue. The wall of the large branches of the hepatic duct consists of a mucous membrane