205 STRUCTURE OF PEPTIC GLANDS. and stains readily in dyes. During digestion the chief cells of the body of the gland are thicker, hence the whole tube is slightly broader (Heidenhain) ; in this state the network forming the substance of the chief cells is more open, its meshes being larger. The parietal cells are fewer than in the neck, but of the same position and structure; their substance is opaque and the nucleus clear; their number decreases towards the fundus (Rollett, Heidenhain). Owing to the different nature of the chief cells in the neck and the body of the gland, and to the difference in the number of parietal cells in the two sections, it is always possible to recognise, in a horizontal section through the gastric mucous mem- brane, the peptic glands being then cut transversely, whether a particular tube is cut across the neck or the body. More than this, owing to the difference in breadth of the body of the tube at the fundus, and further away from it, and owing to the parietal cells diminishing in numbers towards the fundus, it is possible to recognise whether a particular transverse section of a tube corresponds to the fundus or to another part of the gland. Approaching the pyloric end, the peptic glands alter slightly, inasmuch as the duct becomes longer and the tube relatively shorter; the glands in some instances become branched at their fundus. Between the pylorus, containing the pyloric glands, to be described presently, and the rest of the stomach, there is, in carnivorous animals (dog), a zone (intermediary zone, Ebstein), in which the two kinds of glands, viz. the peptic glands and pyloric glands, not only intermix, but the first change into the latter (Klein, Bentkowski). This change consists in the following: (a) the ducts become very much longer: twice and three times as long as in other parts of the stomach ; the rest of the gland is accordingly shortened in proportion ; (/3) the neck of the gland becomes shorter; (y) the body of the gland becomes branched, while the diameter of its lumen is very much enlarged; (8) the parietal cells diminish gradually in number, first in the body, then also in the neck of the gland. The chief cells retain their reticulated structure, both those of the neck and those of the rest of the gland. Careful observations have shown the existence of the two kinds of cells in the peptic glands of most mammals. Besides Rollett and Heidenhain, we owe these results to Friedinger, Jukes, Bentkowsky, Schafer and Williams, and others. Rabe does not find the two kinds of cells in the peptic glands of the horse. b) The Pyloric Glands.—From the description, just given, the nature of these glands is probably already clear. It is this : the duct is proportionately very long, it amounts to half or more of the whole length of the gland; two or three tubes open into the duct by a very short neck, which represents the narrowest part of the gland; the body of the gland is branched into two or three tubes, which are wavy and convoluted ;