163 LYMPHATIC GLANDS. PLATE XXIX. Fig. VII. From a vertical section through the skin of pig’s ear-lobe, to show the distribution of the lymphatics. This figure is illustrative of a point to be considered in the chapter on lymphatic vessels. b. Distended blood-vessels in transverse section. 1. Lymphatic vessels, their wall a single layer of endothelial plates; these vessels are in open communication with the lymph-canalicular system, the intercommunicating interfascicular spaces ; they contain the nucleated connective-tissue corpuscles, seen here in profile. The skin had been oedematous, and hence all the interfascicular spaces are abnor- mally distended, as shown at c. The blood-vessels are also surrounded by these lymph spaces. The connective-tissue bundles cross each other in different ways and are therefore cut in various directions, most of them transversely and obliquely. Fig. VIII. From a vertical section through a mesenteric gland of rabbit. Magnify- ing power about 100. a. Peripheral portion of cortical lymph-follicles; under this power they appear as a dense accumulation of nuclei. s. Lymph-sinus ; the lymph-corpuscles have been removed. c. Inner stratum of capsule. t. Septa coming off from the capsule, and passing in between the follicles. Fig. IX. From the same preparation as in the preceding figure, but illustrating the portion of the medulla adjoining the cortex. a. Transition of the cortical follicles into the medullary cylinders. b. Lymph-sinuses ; the lymph-corpuscles, with which they are ordinarily filled, have been removed by shaking. c. Trabeculae. d. Medullary cylinders of adenoid tissue ; their minute structure is not to be made out under this low power, and they appear merely as a collection of nuclei. Fig. X. Vertical section through a Peyer’s patch of caecum of rabbit, showing two lymph-follicles and their relation to the other parts of the wall of the intestine. Mag- nifying power about 100. a. Middle part of lymph-follicles, i.e. the part where they are fused. s. Summit of follicles covered by the epithelium of the surface ; the adenoid tissue