THE LAMINA CRIBROSA. 373 Schwalbe they can be injected from the lymphatics of the optic nerve, that is, by injecting underneath the pial sheath of this latter. The lymph-channels between the bundles of the nerve-fibre layer have been mentioned above; they may be also injected from the lymphatics of the optic nerve (Schwalbe), and for obvious reasons radiate from the papilla nervi optici. 15. The Lamina Cribrosa. Where the optic nerve joins the retina, the sclerotic and chorioidea enter a very intimate relation with its sheath as lamina cribrosa. That sheath and its lymph-spaces, as well as the structure of the optic nerve, have been fully described in Chapter XIV. pp. 99 and 100. It seems misleading to speak of a ‘ perforation of the membranes of the eyeball (sclerotic and chorioidea) by the optic nerve,’ as the optic nerve has been connected with the retina already since the primary optic vesicle of the embryo, and the sclera and chorioidea, which develop at a later period, close, as it were, around the point of junction of the optic nerve and the retina. In the frog the sclera and chorioidea, although closing round the optic nerve, do not penetrate into it as a lamina cribrosa, but in the mammalia and man early in the embryo the tissue of the sclera and chorioidea, especially of the former, penetrates into the optic nerve at the point of its junction with the retina. The outer or dural sheath (Key and Retzius) of the optic nerve passes into the outer strata of the sclerotic, its connective-tissue trabeculae being directly continuous with one another (Donders); while the middle or arachnoidal sheath and the inner or pial sheath pass into the inner strata of the sclerotic, only few trabeculae of the pial sheath anastomose with those of the chorioidea. In the level of the sclerotic many thinner and thicker trabeculae of connective tissue, derived from the inner strata, pass in a transverse direction between the bundles of the ©ptic nerve. Here they anastomose with the longitudinal connective-tissue septa between the bundles of nerve fibres, which, as mentioned on p. 100, are continuous with one another and the pial sheath. These transverse bundles form a network, and thus constitute the chief part of the lamina cribrosa; in pigmented eyes, especially in the dark eyes of mammals, they carry with them large numbers of branched pigment cells, also arranged transversely. The longitudinal septa between the bundles of the optic nerve at the entrance into the lamina cribosa, and while in this latter, contain very numerous nucleated cells, especially abundant in the young retina (Wolfring). The lamina cribrosa receives undoubtedly a few thin trabeculae with pigmented cells from the chorioidea, although many histologists (Donders, Klebs, Henle, Schwalbe) deny this participation.