CHANGES OF SPERMATOBLASTS. 2 73 changes, leading to the formation of the spermatozoa; for this reason they may be called the spemnatoblasts (Sertoli). In describing these changes I shall refer to observa- tions on the testis of man and various mammals (rabbit, mouse, guinea pig, dog, cat, and boar), which, although not completed yet, nevertheless permit already of a general statement of the plan of the formation of the spermatozoa. Starting with the above-mentioned daughter cells or spermatoblasts, each with one small nucleus and arranged loosely next the lumen of the tube, we find that soon after their formation, their nucleus, while retaining its spherical shape, alters in so far as it becomes invested in a distinct membrane, and its convolution of fibrils or rods changes into a transparent honey-combed reticulum, in many instances without, but in some with one or two thickenings, nucleoli; that is to say, the nucleus becomes similar to what has been mentioned on the previous page as a ‘ resting,’ i.e. non-dividing nucleus. At the same time we notice that the nucleus is not placed in the centre, but in the periphery of the cell. Next, the nucleus becomes uniform in its substance, and transparent; it stains less in dyes, and all traces of a reticulum disappear. The cell substance is collected at one end of the nucleus as an elliptical granular mass, and appears separated from it by a trans- parent, clear bag. In the next stage the nucleus becomes flattened and discoid, so that when viewed from the surface it is broad and circular, but appears narrow and staff-shaped when seen in profile. The cell substance at this time is drawn out into a cylindrical or club-shaped granular body separated from the nucleus by a shorter or longer clear tube, the former clear bag. At the front part of the nucleus is seen a short and tapering curved projection, and at its hind end—viz. that directed towards the clear tube and cell substance—there is also to be found a short pointed process extending into the clear tube just named. When examining one of these cells in a well stained specimen under a high magnifying power, it is seen that the hind third of the nucleus is tightly grasped by the front end of the above clear tube, and that the granular body—viz. the remnant of the cell substance—is placed like a cap over the hind end of the clear tube. In the next stage the nucleus becomes more flattened and oblong, and in some animals more or less curved, while both the clear tube and the granular body become elongated. It is not easy to ascertain whether the clear tube extends also over the front part of the head. In the last stage the granular body has become changed into a long, thin, and homogeneous filament. The fully developed and ripe spermatozoon consists of a homogeneous, well-defined, discoid oval head, which in some animals is in the profile view more saucer-shaped—i.e. convex concave—than in others; it possesses a more or less distinct, tapering, minute curved prolongation. Next to the head is the middle piece of Schweigger Seidel; its