363 STRUCTURE OF THE CONES. According to Krause each inner member contains a central thread. Each cone consists like the rod of an outer short conical member and an inner longer and broader one, the body of the cone, with Convex sides. The former con- tains within a delicate sheath (M. Schultze) a transparent substance which, just like that of the outer member of the rod, easily separates into a great many thin transverse discs. Also around the inner extremity of the body of the cones there projects from the limitans externa a basket-shaped arrangement of fibrils surrounding it like a sheath. The cortical substance of the body of the cones is also longitudinally striated (M. Schultze). I have been able to ascertain that in the frog’s retina this striation of the cone- body and the inner member of the rods is in reality due to a fine reticulum arranged longitudinally. Where the inner member of the rods contains the above-named lenticular structure, the body of the cones possesses an elliptical one. Dobrowolsky saw this also in the cones of the human retina. After certain reagents, Muller’s fluid, iodine-serum, osmic acid, &c., the body of the cones of the ape (M. Schultze), of man (Krause, Hensen), and other mammals and birds (Krause), exhibits a central filament, which according to Krause is connected with the elliptical structure. The outer extremity of the body of the cones in most birds, reptiles, and amphibia, where it joins the outer member, contains a spherical corpuscle, which in most instances is coloured red, orange, yellow, green, or according to Krause and Dobrowolsky also blue. Hoffmann sawr coloured globules in the inner members of the cones, also in the retina of Halmaturus. Double cones, each possessed of two outer and two inner members, the latter joined at their inner extremity, occur in the lower vertebrates, but not in mammals. The relation of the rods and cones as regards length varies in different animals; in man and most mammals the extremity of the outer member of the cones reaches as far as the middle of the outer member of the rods ; in the frog it does not pass much beyond the boundary between outer and inner member of the rods, while in fishes it extends nearly as far outwards as the outer member of the rods. The body of the cones is always thicker than that of the rods, and is nearly, if not quite, as long. The number of the rods is in man, most mammals, and also amphibia, and most fishes, greatly in excess of those of the cones, except in birds, where the opposite holds good. In the macula lutea of the retina of most vertebrates there exist only cones ; some fishes (shark and roach), and some mammals (bat, mole), do not possess any cones o G