ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 432 The boundary of the alveoli is formed by a delicate membrana propria, which in some places includes staff-shaped nuclei and is in connection with branched nucleated cells of the interior of the alveoli (see below). The structure of the alveoli is an uniform one, they being composed of relatively large epithelial cells, each with a single oval or spherical nucleus. The size of the epithelial cells is, however, subject to considerable variations, some being twice as large as their neighbours. In some alveoli they appear as if in a single row and forming a complete lining, the centre of the alveolus is then found occupied by a branched nucleated corpuscle, connected on one or the other side with a similar nucleated cell. The nucleus of the latter kind of cells is small, oblong, staff-shaped or angular, and always stains very deeply in dyes ; the cell substance is always small in amount as compared with that of the epithelial cells. In this respect the appearance is similar to that presented by an alveolus of the pancreas, the centre of the alveolus in both cases being occupied by a centro- acinar cell of a different aspect and nature from the lining epithelial cells (see the chapter on the pancreas). But there are a great many alveoli in which this simple arrangement is altered, the epithelial cells occurring in more than a single row and also the interepithelial cells being then more numerous. In some alveoli there exists a central cavity of variable but small dimensions, iden- tical in appearance to the lumen of other gland alveoli. In other instances it is, however, filled up by a homogeneous gelatinous substance, slightly staining in dyes and extending from the lumen a short distance between the lining cells. The interalveolar septa contain capillary blood-vessels, which, as in other glands, surround the alveoli as a rich network. Between the interalveolar connective tissue, or, more correctly speaking, between the endotheloid lining of the interalveolar septa and the alveoli themselves, there are distinct lymph-spaces which surround the alveoli in the same way as was described in former pages of other glands, as testis, salivary glands, lachrymal glands, &c. They form an intercommunicating system. Near the capsule these interalveolar lymph-spaces are seen in distinct connection with lymphatic vessels. These are very numerous and form plexuses. They are the efferent vessels and are comparable to the superficial lymphatics of other glands, while the circumalveolar lymph-spaces represent the deep lymphatic system. 2. The Thyroid Gland. As in the pituitary gland so also here we find a connective-tissue capsule with elastic