STRUCTURE OF UTERUS. 295 minute long and thin papillae, covered with ciliated epithelium, like the general surface, and each containing a loop of capillary vessels; but, according to Henle, with whom I agree, these ‘ papillae ’ are in reality only sections through the septa or folds of the surface. b) In the fundus the mucous membrane contains, according to Leopold, fibrous connective-tissue, in the shape of a spongy or honey-combed plexus of fine bundles, covered with endothelial plates of various sizes, each with an oval flattened nucleus. These endothelial plates are connected into more or less continuous membranes. The spaces of the spongy matrix are lymph spaces; glands and blood-vessels are situated in them. The endothelial plates form lamellated sheaths around the blood- vessels and glands (Leopold). Between the endothelial membranes exist also branched cells, connected by their processes into a network (Wyder). Most observers, in- cluding Friedlander and Leopold, mention bundles of unstriped muscular tissue pene- trating into the mucous membrane from outside, viz. from the muscular coat, but in the uterus of the newborn child I fail to detect them, except in the immediate vicinity of the muscular coat, and according to Kundrat and Engelmann there are no mus- cular bundles to be found in the mucous membrane of the adult uterus. An important constituent of the mucous membrane are the glands, glandule uterinae. In the newborn child they are limited chiefly to the sides. They are short and branched, and their number increases towards puberty, new glands being formed by tubular ingrowths of the surface epithelium (Kundrat and Engelmann). The glands are simple tubular glands ; they are wavy, slightly convoluted or spiral, and terminate in the depth of the mucous membrane either as a single or branched csecal dilatation. In the dog the glands are of two kinds, single and compound tubular (Sharpey). Each gland tube possesses a delicate membrana propria, which is an endothelial membrane (Leopold) ; and this is lined with a single layer of columnar, pyramidal, or conical epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus, situated in the outer third of the cell (Lott, Goroschankin). The epithelial cells are ciliated. This had been seen first in the glands of the sow by Allen Thomson, and afterwards by Nylander; in man by Fried- lander, and in many domestic animals (cow, sheep, rabbit, mouse, &c.) by Lattaud, Ercolani. The cilia are very perishable, and in hardened specimens very difficult to see. Goroschankin maintains that in the glands of the dog and the cat the lining columnar epithelial cells are without cilia. Comparing these glands in the newborn child and in the adult, it will be seen that they are (absolutely and relatively) much longer in the latter case. During menstruation and in pregnancy the glands greatly increase in length.