ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 338 The conjunctiva fornicis is an exceedingly delicate connective-tissue membrane covered with stratified epithelium of which the superficial layer is composed of more or less columnar cells. The deep portion of the membrane is very loose and contains numerous elastic fibrils. The epithelium of the conjunctiva bulbi is, like that of the fornix, stratified, but towards the cornea it assumes the character of stratified pavement epithelium. The mucous membrane of the conjunctiva bulbi contains, in man and mammals, a great amount of diffuse adenoid tissue, and this can be in some instances traced close to the corneal margin. At the limbus the mucosa forms small papillae. Between its deep layer and the sclerotic, and the tendons of the eye muscles, there is an exchange of connective-tissue bundles. The caruncula lacrymalis contains in its loose deep tissue fat-cells, fine hairs, sebaceous glands and sweat glands similar in nature to Moll’s glands of the eyelids. There are also unstriped muscular fibres in its tissue. The surface is very uneven and except at the summit, where the epithelium is like the stratum Malpighii, it is com- posed of a superficial layer of columnar and one or two deep layers of small polyhedral cells. In the caruncula lacrymalis of two negroes Giacomini found, similar to what is the case in the ape, a minute cartilage, which possessed the structure of fibro-cartilage. The distribution of the blood-vessels in the human eyelids has been specially and minutely investigated more recently by Fuchs and Langer. The distribution of the blood-vessels of the skin of the eyelids, of the cilia, and glands of Moll is similar to that in the skin of other localities. A rich superficial network of capillaries is present in the conjunctiva palpebrae, the limbus, and the caruncula lacrymalis. In the conjunctiva palpebrae the superficial network is very close, and so is also that surrounding the alveoli of the Meibomian glands. A rich plexus of vessels, chiefly veins, distinguishes the conjunctiva bulbi. The lymphatics of the conjunctiva form, according to Schmid, a superficial and deep network, connected with one another by many short branches. The vessels of the superficial network are very fine, and some of them terminate with a pointed or caecal extremity. The vessels of the deep plexus are possessed of valves. The superficial network is densest at the limbus corneae ; both in the conjunctiva bulbi and in the limbus the lymphatics stand in direct communication with the interfascicular lymph-clefts of the sclerotic and cornea respectively (Recklinghausen, Leber, Waldeyer). I have found the superficial network of the conjunctiva pelpebrae exceedingly dense, and its vessels diminishing in size towards the lid margin.