THE SUPRARENAL BODY. 437 The cells are slightly larger and their substance is more opaque than in the zona fasciculata, and they show as a rule in the human organ a more or less distinct yellowish brown tint. The meshes of the medulla contain cylindrical or irregularly shaped anastomosing streaks of very transparent epithelial cells ; their shape is columnar or polyhedral or angular, or even branched, and their nucleus is spherical. These cells are directly continuous with the cell groups of the inner zone of the cortex, but very much more transparent and fragile. In the guinea-pig they contain clumps of smaller or larger brownish pigment granules. In all parts of the parenchyma, viz. cortex and medulla, minute branched cells extend from the connective tissue separating the cell groups into these latter, and they appear here situated between the epithelial cells as minute branched corpuscles, each with a deeply stained nucleus. Those portions of the human suprarenal body that do not contain any medulla, and where consequently, between the central venous trunks and the outer capsule, there exists only cortex, show in many places the following peculiarity of structure : the part that in other places corresponds to the inner zone of the cortex, and, owing to the absence of the medulla, ought to lie here centrally, i.e. next to the large venous trunks of the centre, is separated from these latter by a layer of cells in aspect and arrangement very similar to the zona fasciculata, except that the cells form cylindrical or oval cell streaks grouped together into lobules, whose rounded surface faces the central vein; see fig. IV. of Plate XLVIII. The cortex is very richly supplied with capillary blood-vessels which form dense networks; the meshes of these vary of course in the three different zones, being more polyhedral in the outer and inner, more elongated in the middle or fascicular zone. The medulla is supplied with a very rich network of wide capillaries, which may be almost called veins. But in all parts the blood-vessels are embedded in the framework. Between the septa and trabeculae of the framework on the one hand, and the cell groups on the other, we find lymph-spaces and lymph sinuses which in the zona fasci- culata possess the shape of clefts and channels. They distinctly take up the intercellular spaces and lacunae above mentioned. These latter are best seen between the cells of the zona fasciculata, but 1 do not miss them also in other parts of the cortex. In the capsule (Kolliker, Arnold) and in the connective tissue around the central veins lie the efferent lymphatic vessels with valves; they are connected into a plexus. Moers and Arnold saw also lymphatics around the arteries.