207 STRUCTURE OF THE WALL OF THE STOMACH other parts, supporting the large blood-vessels and lymphatics, the nerve trunks and their ganglia. On the outer surface of the mucosa and the inner surface of the muscularis mucosae of cat’s stomach is found a very characteristic elastic membrane (Zeissl), mentioned already in Chapter V. The mucous membrane composed of the preceding layers is fixed to a thick muscle coat, the external muscle coat, which in many places consists of an inner thicker circular and an outer thinner longitudinal stratum of unstriped muscle cells; but masses of oblique bundles (fibrae obliquae) are found on the inner surface of the circular stratum (Gillenskoeld). The outer boundary of the stomach is formed by the peritoneum, whose deeper bundles of connective tissue are connected with the perimysium of the longi- tudinal muscle stratum in the same way as those of the submucosa with the perimysium of the inner layer of the muscle coat. The mucous membrane of the first part of the alimentary canal, viz. mouth, palate, and pharynx, does not contain any muscularis mucosae, and the tissue of the mucosa passes therefore insensibly into that of the submucosa. Both these tissues, and especially the intermuscular connective tissue, contain fat-cells. In the second part, viz. the oesophagus, stomach, small and large intestine, the mucosa is separated from the submucosa by a muscularis mucosae, in the oesophagus, as mentioned above, it is a single longitudinal stratum, in the stomach it is composed of an inner circular and outer longitudinal stratum, and occasionally an additional inner longitudinal stratum. Fat-cells occur chiefly in the submucous tissue and in the subserous part of the peritoneal covering. In the mucous membrane of the mouth, palate, pharynx, and oesophagus, the secreting glands are situated in the submucous tissue; in the stomach, small and large intestine, they belong to the mucosa, except the Brunner’s glands at the beginning of the duodenum, these are situated in the submucous tissue. The secreting glands of the alimentary canal, until the cardia is reached, are compound or branched tubular glands; in the stomach, small and large intestine, they are single tubes with the exception of the pyloric glands and the Brunner’s glands, both of which are also compound tubular. The distribution of blood-vessels does not differ materially from that of the oesophagus, except in the mucosa. The arterial branches having penetrated through the muscularis mucosae ascend into the mucosa, where they dissolve themselves into capillaries, which form networks around the gland tubes, with more or less elongated meshes. Near the surface the network is very dense, and forms a special horizontal superficial layer underneath the epithelium. Out of this develop the venous branches. The lymphatics of the mucous membrane are very numerous, they form a deep plexus of larger vessels in the submucous tissue (Teichmann). Into this plexus lead lymphatics which belong to the mucosa: here they form, according to Teichmann and Loven, a network of vessels near the fundus of the gland tubes. According to Loven numerous lymphatics lead into that plexus; these are larger than the former, and run a more or less longitudinal course between the gland tubes ; they anastomose with one 11 2