248 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. e. The mucous membrane of the anterior surface contains numerous lymphatics, cut here in various directions. f. The stratified pavement epithelium of the anterior surface. /. Lymph follicle. Fig V. From a longitudinal section through the ventriculus Morgagni of a child. Magnifying power about 45. In order to correspond to the natural position the drawing should be reversed. a. The true vocal cord, covered with stratified pavement epithelium. The mucosa contains dense elastic tissue. b. The false vocal cord ; its margin is covered with stratified pavement epithelium, towards the epiglottis the epithelium is stratified columnar (ciliated), intermixed with islands of stratified pavement cells. These minute details are not shown here on account of the low power under which the drawing is made. The mucous membrane contains numerous mucous glands c. A nodule of elastic cartilage in the true vocal cord. d. Ventricle lined with ciliated columnar epithelium. /. The mucous membrane next the epithelium, being one continuous mass of adenoid tissue. The outer section of the mucous membrane containing mucous glands and striped muscle (upper portion of thyro-arytenoid muscle) is not represented. m. Striped muscle fibres in transverse sections, the lower portion of the thyro- arytenoid muscle. Fig. VI. From a longitudinal section through the same trachea as fig. I., but under a low power, so as to show the whole thickness of the mucous membrane. Magnifying power about 45. a. The stratified columnar (ciliated) epithelium. b. The basement membrane. c. The inner section of the mucosa. d. The network of longitudinal elastic fibres. e. The submucous tissue, containing mucous glands and large vessels. f. Portions of the (hyaline) cartilage rings in transverse section. g. Fat cells. Fig. VII. From an oblique section through the trachea of foetus. Owing to the obliquity of the section, several cartilage rings (stained deep purple) are included in the section. The trachea is much shrunk and placed in folds. Magnifying power about 25. e. The ciliated columnar epithelium. ni. The unstriped muscle tissue of the posterior membranous part.