53 STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. Fig. II. Transverse section through the same intervertebral cartilage. This being composed of concentric lamellae (of fibrous tissue) arranged around a central cavity filled with gelatinous substance, shows in a transverse section parallel strata. The lower edge of the figure is the part next that central cavity, the lamellae are here less distinct, and this part becomes more deeply stained in logwood. Between the lamellae are the cartilage cells, arranged in rows. The cells are in this and the following figure III. represented as seen in profile; being flattened, they appear staff-shaped. As figure III. (higher magnifying power) proves, each cell lies in a capsule. A distinction between nucleus and cell-substance is not indicated in this drawing. Fig. IV. Ordinary hyaline cartilage of trachea of a child. The cartilage cells are enclosed singly or in pairs in a capsule of hyaline substance. The distinction between nucleus and cell-substance of the cartilage-cells is not brought out, owing to the low magnifying power under which the drawing was made. This capsule of hyaline substance is the most recently formed part of the cartilage matrix. The rest of the hyaline matrix shows a differentiation into a less stained substance in the vicinity of the cartilage cells and their capsules, and a more deeply tinted part, farther away from the cartilage cells. The cause of this is not easily ascertained. Fig. V. From a longitudinal section through tail of mouse, showing the transition of fibrous cartilage («) into ordinary hyaline cartilage (b), and this again into inter- mediary cartilage (c) ; in this latter the cartilage-cells are arranged in vertical rows; it corresponds to the intermediary cartilage placed between epiphysis and diaphysis of long bones (see chapter on Bone). The fibrous nature of the matrix of (a) is, on account of the low magnifying power, not shown. The cartilage cells of (6) and (r) are much shrunk. Fig. VII. From the same preparation as fig. IV., but under a higher power, representing a group of cartilage cells. Some of these cells possess one nucleus, others two. It is here seen that the capsule of hyaline substance is derived from the cell- substance, owing to a peculiar change of its periphery. Fig. VI. From a vertical section through the reticular (yellow or elastic) cartilage of epiglottis of a child. a. Perichondrium ; the connective-tissue bundles forming the matrix of this mem- brane are not represented, only the flattened (therefore in profile staff-shaped) nuclei of the connective-tissue corpuscles are shown here. b. The part of the elastic cartilage next the perichondrium. The matrix, composed of networks of minute fibrils, is arranged as a network of trabeculae ; in the meshes lie cartilage-cells embedded in hyaline (stained) substance. The cell-substance of the cartilage-cells is not well shown here, and their nucleus is much shrunk.