ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 298 in the inner muscular coat. Between the two are situated the collecting lymphatics with valves. According to Lindgren the lymphatics of the mucous membrane of the cervix are connected with saccular sinuses extending near the epithelium of the inner surface of the mucous membrane. The nerves of the muscular coat have the same arrangement and termination as in other unstriped muscular tissue (Frankenhauser, Arnold) ; those entering the mucous membrane are connected with ganglia (Frankenhauser, Luschka, Koch, Kehrer, and others). According to Lindgren the mucous membrane contains a plexus of non-medul- lated nerve fibres, which, near the epithelium of the free surface, give off bundles of very fine fibrils. The Vagina. The mucous membrane of the vagina is a dense connective-tissue feltwork, with numerous elastic fibrils forming networks. It projects above the general surface in the shape of longer or shorter conical or irregular pointed or blunt permanent folds or papillae. The epithelium of the free surface is a thick stratified pavement epithelium of the ordinary description; into this the superficial layer of the mucous membrane, viz. the mucosa, projects in the shape of long cylindrical or conical simple or divided papillae. According to v. Preuschen there exist in the mucous membrane tubular glands lined at their fundus with ciliated columnar epithelium. Hennig also describes tubular glands in the mucous membrane, especially of the fornix and introitus vaginae ; in the rest of the organ they are very rare. The deeper part of the mucous membrane is loose in its texture, and represents the submucosa. Outside this is the muscular coat, consisting of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal stratum of bundles of unstriped muscular cells. There are oblique bundles passing from one layer into the other. Muscular bundles penetrate into the submucosa, and further into the mucosa, where they may be traced up to near the epithelium. The muscular bundles are separated from one another by a relatively large amount of con- nective-tissue. Outside the muscular coat is a layer of connective-tissue; embedded in it is the outer plexus of veins, plexus venosus vaginalis. The arterial branches entering the mucosa break up into a capillary network from which simple or compound loops pass into the papillae.