172 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. fenestrated membrane (Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel), viz. a plexus of anastomosing trabeculae with smaller or larger oval or spherical meshes. The endothelium covering this fenestrated part, that is above the straight lymph-channels, is composed of small more or less germinating endothelial cells, while that above the tendon bundles consists of the ordinary large endothelial plates, as mentioned in Chapter III. Between the pleural serosa and the circular layer of tendon bundles lies a dense plexus of lymphatic vessels with valves, their wall is a single layer of elongated endothelial cells (see fig. XII. Plate VI.). In connection with this plexus, which repre- sents the ‘ plexus of pleural lymphatics of the central tendon,’ are («) capillaries that have their roots in the lymph-canalicular system of the pleural serosa itself, and (b) the circular or deep straight lymphatics, which, as we mentioned above, form, with the radiating or superficial straight lymphatics, an intercommunicating system. The plexus of pleural lymphatics is arranged as an anterior and posterior system (Klein); the former is symmetrically distributed over the two anterior quadrants, and the same is the case with the latter, viz. one for each of the two posterior quad- rants. The pleural lymphatics of both sides of the anterior system, as well as those of both sides of the posterior system, communicate with each other by intermediary branches. The efferent trunks of the anterior system run near the margin of the central tendon towards the xyphoid cartilage, where the branches of the two sides anastomose with one another and, freely intercommunicating, ascend on the posterior surface of the sternum towards the jugular incision of the manubrium sterni, and finally enter a lymphatic gland, one for each side. The efferent trunks of the posterior system are fewer and larger, and finally collect into one or two short large vessels for each side, which freely empty themselves into the thoracic duct. Bizzozero and Salvioli have shown that the arrangement of the lymphatics in the muscular portion (pars costalis) of the diaphragm is similar to that of the central tendon. In connection with the radiating straight lymphatic capillaries in rodents there are smaller and larger sinuous or saccular lymphatic capillaries (Klein), they are chiefly near the middle line of both the anterior and posterior quadrants. Bizzozero and Salvioli showed them to exist also in the human diaphragm, especially in the ‘ zona peritendinea.’ According to Rajewsky the arrangement of the lymphatic system of the central tendon in man is the same as in rodents. The membrana propria or limiting membrane described by Bizzozero and Salvioli of the peritoneal surface of the human diaphragm is perforated, above the radi- ating straight lymphatics, and also above the aforesaid lymph-sinuses, by minute holes.