i51 STRUCTURE OF BLOOD-VESSELS. the endothelial cells appear very thick. Underneath the endothelium is the wavy elastic intima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle coat; the staff-shaped nuclei of the muscle cells are well seen. Outside this is— a. Part of the adventitia ; this is composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective-tissue corpuscles. The adventitia gradually merges into the surrounding connective tissue. v. Vein, showing a thin endothelial membrane raised (accidentally) from the intima, which, on account of its delicacy, is seen as a mere line on the media ; this latter is deeply stained and composed of a few circular unstriped muscle cells. a. The adventitia is similar in structure to that of the artery. Fig. VI. Surface view of the endothelium lining a large vein of the frog’s mesentery, stained with nitrate of silver. The outlines, i.e. the interstitial cement-sub- stance, of the endothelial cells is shown only, not their nuclei. Underneath the endo- thelium are seen a few of the outlines of the circular muscle cells. Fig. VII. Surface view of a minute artery from a silver-stained omentum of rabbit, showing the outlines of the elongated endothelial cells lining the vessel; at the margin of the vessel are seen the outlines, i.e. the interstitial cement-substance, of the circular muscle cells. Fig. VIII. Part of a capillary artery of the omentum of dog, seen lengthwise. The lining endothelium is seen in profile at the margin, the oval nuclei seen apparently in the vessel are the nuclei of the endothelium viewed from the surface. The nuclei of the endothelial cells, being flattened like the cells themselves, appear broader when seen from the surface than in profile. The media is indicated by groups of circular muscle cells arranged alternately. An outer delicate nucleated membrane represents the adventitia. Fig. IX. Transverse section through a large branch of the mesenteric vein, accom- panying the artery represented in Fig. IV. e. The lining endothelium, its nuclei are well shown. i. Delicate elastic intima. m. Media, the inner part of it is a continuous circular layer of unstriped muscle cells, but the outer greater portion contains muscle cells arranged only in small bundles, and separated by a great amount of connective tissue, with a few thick elastic fibres. a. Adventitia of connective tissue, with numerous thick cylindrical longitudinal elastic fibres, similar to those in the adventitia of the artery. The difference in the relation of the various coats and their relative and absolute thickness in the two vessels, represented in Figs. IV. and IX., is well marked.