ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 86 with the medullary sheath, but after shrinking of the axis cylinder the space becomes more distinct. After hardening reagents the above albuminous substance becomes coagulated, and then corresponds to a thin granular membrane surrounding the axis cylinder, described by Todaro and Schmidt. With nitrate of silver this layer appears occasionally as if composed of transverse bands or rings (Axel Key and Retzius), and may thus appear as if the axis cylinder itself were composed of transversely arranged bandlike or discoid masses (Frommann, Grandry). (3) The sheath of Schwann, a thin hyaline elastic membrane, surrounds the medullary cylinder. This outer sheath is possessed at regular intervals of annular constrictions, first discovered by Ranvier, and hence known as Ranvier’s nodes. Each node is due to an annular fold of the sheath of Schwann projecting towards the axis cylinder. The part of the sheath between each two constrictions is called an * interannular segment.’ In the concavity of the constriction is a finely granular substance (Ranvier) of the nature of albuminous cement-substance. Corresponding to each constriction the medullary sheath is interrupted (Ranvier), so that the axis cylinder is here in contact with the sheath of Schwann. According to Engelmann also the axis cylinder is discontinuous at the node. The interruption of the medullary sheath at the nodes of Ranvier has probably an important bearing on the circula- tion of plasma to the axis cylinder (Ranvier). Owing to this state the nerve fibres present a peculiar dark cross at the node after silver staining, viz. the albuminous cement-substance around the constricting fold becomes stained by silver, and this penetrates hence gradually into the interior and stains a similar cement-substance covering the axis cylinder. According to whether the staining extends a longer or shorter distance on the surface of the axis cylinder upwards and downwards the node, the longitudinal branch of the ‘cross,’ appears longer or shorter (Axel Key and Retzius). The nodes of Ranvier are to be met with on all medullated nerve fibres of all verte- brates ; they are more numerous on broad nerve fibres than on thin ones (Axel Key and Retzius). (4) On the inner surface of the sheath of Schwann are elliptical nuclei surrounded by a smaller or larger film of protoplasm (Axel Key and Retzius, S. Mayer, and others). These nucleated cells do not belong to the sheath of Schwann, which, like the sarco- lemma, is structureless ; they are generally pressed against the medullary sheath, and are situated as it were in a small excavation of the outer surface of this latter structure. The protoplasm of these nucleated cells varies in amount in different states of development, and contains occasionally pigment granules (S. Meyer). The nuclei contain an intranuclear reticulum. Every interannular segment of the nerve fibres of higher vetebrates possesses as a rule only one such cell in about the middle of the