128 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 2. The stalk of the corpuscle consists of a medullated nerve fibre of the ordinary description, with the addition of a variable amount of fibrous-connective tissue (Axel Key and Retzius); outside this is a thin limiting membrane, and further a number of lamellae with endothelium between them. These lamellae pass directly into the peri- pheral capsules of the Pacinian corpuscle (Krause, Schafer). 3. In order to reach the central clear mass the nerve fibre has to perforate the capsules. This section of the nerve may be called the ‘ intermediary part,’ viz. lying between the stalk and the central clear mass. This intermediary part consists of a prolongation of the medullated nerve fibre, more or less wavy, around it a very narrow zone of a transparent substance. Its boundary is formed by the limiting membrane just mentioned ; to this latter are fixed the capsules that are perforated by the intermediary part of the nerve (Ciaccio, Schafer). 4. The central clear mass is a relatively thin cord, consisting of: (a) The cylindrical terminal fibre, being the axis cylinder of the nerve fibre. The medullary sheath and sheath of Schwann cease at the entrance into the central clear mass. This axis cylinder is just like other axis cylinders, finely striated in a longitudinal manner, being composed of minute primitive nerve fibrils. Generally near the distal end of the central clear mass, occasionally much sooner, the axis cylinder divides into two or more small branches of different thicknesses. As a rule, in man and mammals, these branches end in a pear-shaped, fungoid, spherical or irregular mass, terminal bud (Key and Retzius), containing the terminations of the primitive nerve fibrils of the axis cylinder (Grandry). Occasionally the terminal fibre ends in a pointed or fringed manner (Izquierdo). The terminal buds show, especially in man and cat, a more or less distinct subdivision into small bodies, but without nuclei. The substance of these buds is a dense network of minute fibrils, and may therefore be regarded as a terminal network, not to be confused with a network of coarse nerve fibres said to exist in the corpuscle proper (Paladino, Beale). (b) Besides the terminal fibre and terminal buds, the central clear mass contains a transparent hyaline or slightly (longitudinally) striated matrix, and (c) the limiting mem- brane, both continued from the stalk. Rows of nucleus-like bodies may be seen occa- sionally in the peripheral part of the central clear mass. The transparent matrix and limiting membrane extend, in some rare instances, in the shape of a longer or shorter pointed process (Key and Retzius), beyond the terminal buds. The Pacinian corpuscles contain between the capsules capillary blood-vessels, and occasionally a few plasma cells. In some instances (mesentery of cat) a minute artery is seen to enter the Pacinian corpuscle opposite the nerve stalk, and having penetrated to near the distal extremity