221 BLOOD-VESSELS OF SMALL INTESTINE. The arterial and venous trunks found in the submucosa give off or take up respectively the vessels for all the above systems present between the epithelium of the inner surface and the external muscle coat. The distribution of the capillaries in the peritoneal covering is the same as in the mesentery, viz. uniform networks with rather large meshes ; those of the external muscle coat and the muscularis mucosae are arranged as in other unstriped muscle tissue, viz. networks with elongated meshes. The capillary network of the fat tissue is the same as in fat tissue of other parts (see Chapter VI.). In the solitary and agminated lymph follicles the capillaries form a network with elongated meshes and radiating towards the centre, where they generally form loops. Around the individual follicles minute veins are found arranged as a special network. The arterioles passing through the muscularis mucosae into the mucosa give off numerous capillaries, forming a network around the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; their meshes are elongated and vertical to the surface ; the arteriole passing into the villus ascends generally to near the apex, except in man, where it does not as a rule pass beyond the lower half (Heller). It dissolves itself into a dense network of capillaries, spreading over the apex and base of the villus; in the former the network is much denser than in the latter. The capillaries of the villus are always situated in the periphery next to the epithelium. The network of capillaries of the villus forms a continuity with that of the rest of the mucosa (Toldt). There are generally one or two veins developed from the capillaries of the villus. According to Heller, the vein generally commences near the apex of the villus in man and rabbit, while in dog, cat, pig and hedgehog it originates near the base. The lymphatics of the small intestine are very numerous. They are : a) The lymphatics of the villi. As has been mentioned above, each villus has a central single chyle vessel, or two such vessels, anastomosing with one another. They correspond to large lymphatic capillaries, beginning with a blind extremity near the apex of the villus ; the reticulum of the surrounding tissue is connected with the interstitial sub- stance of the endothelial wall and represents the rootlets for the chyle vessel. At the basis of the villus the chyle vessel is generally much narrower and anastomoses with the network of lymphatic capillaries and sinuses between the Lieberkuhn’s crypts (Frey and others). Absorption by the chyle vessels is in a great measure supported by the peculiar relation existing between the blood-vessels of the villus and its chyle vessel, for during digestion the former are in a state of great turgescence, and owing to their peripheral disposition will necessarily keep the villus erect: the central chyle vessel is hereby, of course, kept distended.