397 GANGLION SPIRALS. Thus in a transverse section through the ganglion, the appearance is produced as if the ganglion cells were surrounded by a nucleated capsule ; but there is no structure comparable to the capsule of the ganglion cells as found in the spinal and similar ganglia. Into the ganglionic layer enter smaller and larger nerve-branches from the lamina spiralis ossea. Both those entering as well as those leaving the ganglionic layer are contained generally not in one common osseous canal, but are embedded in several smaller or larger such canals. The nerve bundles within the lamina spiralis ossea form a continuous layer and lie in a common space between the thicker upper vestibular and the thinner lower tympanic lamella of osseous substance. There are also here nucleated cells, endoneurium, to be met with between the nerve fibres. The nerve fibres form here very rich plexuses ; they are medullated fibres from the entrance into the osseous portion of the lamina spiralis immediately after leaving the organ of Corti (see below). This division of the nerve fibres, viz. within the lamina spiralis ossea, varies in length, of course according to the length of the lamina spiralis, cseteris paribus, being longer in the lower than in the upper turns. But also the number of the nerve fibres in the lamina spiralis ossea and the size of the ganglion spirale, i.e. the number of the ganglion cells, decrease as we ascend towards the apex of the cochlea. Besides the channels for the nerve branches the modiolus contains in its marginal portion channels for blood-vessels and lymphatics. These channels occur mostly where the osseous septum between the scala tympani and scala vestibuli of adjacent turns joins the modiolus. The blood-vessels, especially the arteries, are here very conspicuous by their exceedingly convoluted nature. The substance surrounding these vessels and filling up those channels of the modiolus is homogeneous, in it are embedded delicate bundles of fibrous tissue and numerous nucleated flattened endotheloid cells. The blood-vessels, chiefly arteries, are accompanied by lymphatic vessels, whose wall is a single layer of endothelial cells. These lymphatics either run simply at the side of the vessels, or, as is oftener the case, form continuous spaces and sinuses by which the arteries appear completely invaginated. In such cases we find the blood-vessel ensheathed in a special endothelial membrane, and from this to the outer endothelial wall of the lymph-space extend thinner or thicker bridges also ensheathed in endothelium. The cavity of the ductus cochlearis, containing the endolymph, is comparable to that of the utricle, saccule and membranous semi-circular canals, while the space containing the perilymph is, in the case of the cochlea, unlike that in the rest of the labyrinth, where it is single, divided into the scala vestibuli and the scala tympani. Also in the cochlea 3 m