ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 288 In the fully formed Grafian follicle the ovum is embedded in a mass of epithelial cells, projecting like a mound from the epithelial lining of the follicle into the cavity of the latter. This mass is the discus or cumulus proligerus ; the cavity contains an albuminous fluid, liquor folliculi. In some follicles there may be two or even three such cumuli, each containing an ovum. The epithelial cells of the discus proligerus are, like the cells of the membrana gra- nulosa, small transparent polyhedral or elongated cells ; but those immediately around the ovum are beautifully columnar, each with an oval nucleus. All transitional forms exist between the above ripe follicles and the small follicles, which do not contain any cavity yet, but in which the ovum is placed more or less cen- trally, the space between it and the membrana propria being filled with epithelial cells. The transition is effected by the appearance of albuminous fluid in small isolated cavities amongst the epithelial cells of the membrana granulosa, or between the ovum itself and the epithelium ; in the latter case the ovum remains surrounded by the epithelial cells, discus proligerus. These cavities gradually increase in number and size, and be- come confluent, the follicle thus greatly enlarges, and the ovum, embedded in the discus proligerus, is pressed to one side and remains connected on this side with the membrana granulosa. While this fluid appears, both the epithelial cells immediately surrounding the ovum, as well as those of the membrana granulosa, greatly increase in numbers. In many follicles, containing a greater or smaller quantity of the liquor folliculi, we notice in this latter small cells, isolated or in small groups, more or less vacuolated. They are vesicular structures, containing a cavity surrounded by a thin membrane, the original cell-substance, at one point of which lies a spherical or slightly compressed nucleus. These cells are probably epithelial cells that have become separated from the follicular epithelium and are undergoing retrogressive changes (maceration). They gradually fade away entirely. In connection with, or contiguous to, middle-sized and large Grafian follicles may be seen larger or smaller solid cylindrical, or oval, or irregularly shaped masses. These masses are limited by a membrana propria, and when they are connected with a Grafian follicle, their membrana propria is a continuation of the same structure of the Grafian follicle ; they consist of more or less columnar transparent epithelial cells, of exactly the same characters as those of the granulosa of the Grafian follicles, with which in some instances they are distinctly continuous. These masses are very well shown in the ovary of the rabbit. Whether all apparently isolated solid masses of similar cells, in a section through the ovary, are in reality isolated or not, i.e. whether or not they are connected with a Grafian follicle, but owing to the direction of the section this connection