281 STRUCTURE OF CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. were supposed to open freely into the cavernae, are due to a peculiar convoluted and twisted condition of the arterial branches, owing, of course, to the contracted state of the muscular matrix, while the cavernae are collapsed (Henle, Langer, and others). In the peripheral, or cortical, part of the corpora cavernosa penis there exists, in addition, a direct communication between very fine arterioles and the cavernae (Langer). The corpus cavernosum urethrae consists of an inner and outer section; the former is a plexus of longitudinal veins of exactly the same nature as that mentioned above of the pars membranacea, with which it forms a direct continuity ; in connection with it are the capillaries belonging to the mucous membrane of the urethra. The outer section is a real corpus cavernosum, like that of the penis, and is continued as the bulbus. The cavernae of the corpus cavernosum of the glans penis are also venous vessels connected into a plexus; into the cavernae open the capillaries. These form a dense network, situated in the matrix between the cavernae. The cortical layer of this corpus cavernosum is in direct communication with the vessels of the mucous membrane of the glans. This is a delicate connective-tissue feltwork covered with stratified pave- ment epithelium ; numerous conical papillae, containing capillary loops, extend from the former into the latter. At the corona glandis exist generally small sebaceous glands, the glands of Tyson, continued from the inner lamella of the prepuce (see Skin). A rich plexus of lymphatics, terminating as a network of fine vessels underneath the epithelium, is present in the tissue of the glans, including the papillae. Numerous isolated and small bundles of medullated nerve fibres are to be met with connected in a plexus. From these come off non-medullated nerve fibres forming a dense subepithelial network. For their termination in the epithelium and in end bulbs see a former chapter (XVIII.). PLATE XXXIX. Fig. I. From a vertical section through the testis of the dog. Magnifying power about 50. c. Capsule consisting of an outer layer, the tunica adnata, and an inner, the tunica albuginea. Lymph vessels are indicated between the two layers. b. Large blood-vessel in transverse section. s. Seminal tubules cut in different directions. /. Lymph spaces around and between the tubes. Fig. II. From a section through the epididymis of the dog. Magnifying power about 50.