439 CHAPTER XLIV. THE INDIRECT DIVISION OF THE NUCLEUS OF THE EPITHELIAL CELLS. In former chapters it has been repeatedly mentioned (see the seminal epithelial cells, the epithelium of the mucous membranes, the epidermis of the skin, the endothelium, &c.) that the nucleus of the epithelial cells undergoes a complicated series of structural changes which lead to the division of the mother nucleus into two daughter nuclei. This mode of division is the indirect one as opposed to the direct one, or that of Remak, viz. when the nucleus at once, without any intermediary structural changes, becomes segmented into two, three, or more daughter nuclei. In the process of indirect division also the cell-protoplasm, which we have described as of a reticulated structure, becomes divided into two daughter-cells, each including one daughter-nucleus. This division of the cell itself takes place only after the mother- nucleus has nearly or completely divided. Not intending to give here a lengthy description of all those cases in which an in- direct division of the nucleus has been observed, I must be content to mention them here by name only, referring the student for a detailed summary of them to Strass- burger’s great work on ‘ Cell-formation and Cell-division,’third edition, Jena, 1880. Biitschli saw it in the ova of nematodes, snails, and in the sperm cells of blatta. Auerbach in the ovum of ascaris nigrovenosa and strongylus auricularis. Fol in the ovum of pteropodes, heteropodes, and sagitta. Strassburger in a great many different vegetable cells. O. Hertwig in the ovum of toxopneustes lividus, hirudo, asteracanthion, and in the ovum of a number of other invertebrates (ccelenterata, vermes, mollusca), and in the ovum of the frog. Mayzel in the normal and regenerating epithelium of the cornea of the frog, newt, lizard, rabbit, cat, dog, ape, in various birds, in the epidermis of the skin of man and rabbit, in the epithelium of the human oesophagus, in the corneal corpuscles, in cancer cells, in the cells of the hyaline cartilage, in Descemet’s endo- thelium of the frog, in the ovum of fishes and newts, and in the embryo-cells of these animals. E. van Beneden in the embryo-cells of the rabbit. Balfour in the blasto- derm-cells of the elasmobranchs, in the germinal epithelium of the young ovary and in the young ova of the rabbit. Bobretzky in the ovum of gasteropodes. Balbiani in the ovary of the larvae of the orthoptera. Eberth in the normal and regenerating epithelium 3 r 2