225 STRUCTURE OF PANCREAS, their epithelium being shorter and the lumen smaller, and the fibrous tissue around them much less in amount. The substance of the epithelial cells is transparent, and does not show, like that of the cells lining the intralobular ducts of the salivary glands, thick rodlike fibres. The nucleus of the cells is more or less spherical. The intermediary parts are branched canals of various lengths with a small, but distinct lumen ; each consists of a membrana propria, a continuation of the same mem- brane of the intralobular duct, lined with a single layer of flattened clear cells more or less elongated, and each with a flattened oval nucleus (Langerhans, Teraszkievicz). The intranuclear network is very well seen. These cells are continuous with the lining cells of the intralobular ducts. The length of the intermediary canals varies in different parts: while in some lobules they and their branches may be traced for a considerable distance, in others they are extremely short, the branches of the intralobular ducts appearing to pass almost immediately into the alveoli. The intermediary tubes in the pancreas of rabbit are very long (Langerhans). The alveoli are branched tubes, very wavy and much convoluted. They are limited by a membrana propria of the same structure as that of the salivary glands (see the chapter on salivary glands), lined with a single layer of beautiful columnar cells ; these are either cylindrical or blunt conical with their narrow end in the centre of the alveolus. Their substance shows a marked distinction into an inner and outer part (Langerhans, Heidenhain); the outer part (that is the one next the membrana propria) is homogeneous in aspect and stains better with dyes; the inner appears more granular and does not stain readily (Heidenhain). The nucleus is spherical and is placed in the outer part where this is in contact with the inner part. These two zones of the epithelial cells differ in structure in this manner: while the outer zone is composed of very fine longitudinal fibrils (Pfliiger, Heidenhain), the inner, viz. the one that appears coarsely granular and is described as such by Langerhans and Heidenhain, is in reality a network of thick short rods (Klein). When viewing this part of the cell substance in an oblique manner the rods are very clearly seen; viewed from the top they appear as closely placed coarse granules of uniform size. The nucleus contains a distinct network. According to Heidenhain the cells alter their appearance and size in different stages of digestion in this way: in the first stage of digestion the cells as a whole become smaller owing to a diminution (exhaustion) of the inner or granular zone, but the outer zone appears at the same time slightly larger; in the second stage a regeneration takes place of the granular inner zone at the expense of the homogeneous outer one ; this latter considerably decreases, but the cell as a whole increases greatly in size. Ktihne and Lea, observing the pancreas of rabbit during life, noticed that during M M 2