102 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Fig. VII. The posterior horn of grey matter shown in fig. I., under a higher mag- nifying power. n. Nerve fibres, in transverse section, surrounding the grey matter. g. Large ganglion cells in the front part of the posterior horn ; there are several other small ones seen in the left part of the horn. Bundles of more or less horizontal nerve fibres are seen in the posterior and lateral portion ; they are fibres that pass either directly from the posterior nerve roots into the posterior horn, or that come from, or pass respectively into the posterior and lateral tract of the white matter. Fig. VIII. Portion of a transverse section through the grey matter (of cervical region) near the central canal. Magnifying power about 100. a. Nerve fibres, cut transversely, of anterior tract of white matter. The horizontal nerve fibres passing amongst them are the fibres forming the anterior commissure. b. Blood-vessels. c. Central canal. There are several large ganglion cells belonging to the front part of the posterior horn. Near the anterior tract of white substance (a) are a few small ganglion cells belong- ing to the inner group of cells of the anterior horn. PLATE XX. Fig. IX. From a transverse section through the white matter of the cord of calf (hardened in bichromate of potash). Magnifying power about 300. In the upper part are shown two isolated flattened nucleated branched cells of the neuroglia, under a somewhat higher power than the rest. In the bulk of the figure we see the nerve fibres in transverse section. They are of different sizes, and possess around the deeply stained axis cylinder a laminated medullary sheath. The nerve fibres are embedded in the neuroglia; this contains in a matrix which is here granular, but under other conditions appears homogeneous, numerous elastic fibrils seen here in trans- verse sections as minute dots, on account of their having a course parallel to the long axis of the cord. Amongst the neuroglia are here seen two branched connective-tissue cells—neuroglia cells. Fig. X. Copied from Gerlach, part of fig. 223, in Strickers’ ‘ Handbook of His- tology.’ A multipolar ganglion cell isolated from the grey matter of the cord, showing the numerous processes branching dichotomously, and losing themselves in the general network of fine nerve fibrils—Gerlach’s nerve network. The minute dots amongst this