103 STRUCTURE OF OPTIC NERVE. network are fibrils viewed in optical sections. In this network terminates a minute nerve, being a branch of a larger nerve that entered the grey matter. Fig. XI. Small part of a transverse section of optic nerve. Magnifying power about 300. р. Pial or inner sheath, a fibrous-connective tissue, showing oblong nuclei of connec- tive-tissue corpuscles, and one or two blood-vessels in section. s. A septum passing from the inner sheath; by such septa the nerve fibres are ar- ranged in groups ; in the present figure is shown part of a large group of nerve fibres. The nerve fibres are seen in transverse section, and each of them is indicated by a deeply stained small axis cylinder surrounded by a thin medullary sheath. The unequal size of the nerve fibres is probably due to their being possessed of varicosities, and therefore cut either through a varicosity or between. The nerve fibres are separated from the pial sheath by a large lymph space. Be- tween the fibres is seen neuroglia, composed like that of the cord of a general matrix, in which lies a network of elastic fibrils, and numerous branched flattened connective- tissue cells. Fig. XII. From a transverse section through the most peripheral part of the white matter of the cord. Magnifying power about 300. w. White matter showing the transverse sections of the nerve fibres, separated by neuroglia, viz. hyaline matrix, network of neuroglia fibrils and numerous branched nucleated connective-tissue cells. с. Special peripheral layer of neuroglia on the surface of the white matter. The network of neuroglia fibrils has a pre-eminently horizontal direction. Fig. XIII. From a longitudinal section through a septum of the white matter of the cord, showing neuroglia fibrils and one branched neuroglia cell. Magnifying power about 450. Fig. XIV. From a transverse section through the white matter of a cord hardened in chromic acid. Nerve fibres of different sizes in transverse section ; they show the medullary sheath greatly shrunk around the axis cylinder. The neuroglia, in its differ- ent parts, is well shown. Magnifying power about 450. Fig. XV. Copied from Gerlach, fig. 224 in Strickers’ ‘ Handbook.’ An isolated ganglion cell of the anterior horn of the human cord. Magnifying power 150. a. Axis-cylinder process. b. Pigment. The fine network in the upper part of the figure belongs to the nerve network of Gerlach, in which terminate the branched processes of the ganglion cell. Fig. XVI. Copied from Klein, fig. 71 in ‘ Handbook for the Physiological Labora-