370 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. do not exist as a complete layer, being greatly interrupted by the many layers of ganglion cells. At the entrance into the plane of the retina the bundles of the nerve fibres of the optic nerve curve round from a horizontal into a vertical direction and pass on as the nerve-fibre layer, the bundles radiating from the papilla nervi optici towards the whole circumference of the retina. They always remain grouped in bundles (Kolliker), which in many places are arranged as a plexus (Michel). The nerve fibres at the point of entrance into the retina, or rather, already in the level of the lamina cribrosa of the eyeball, lose, as a rule, their medullary sheath and throughout the retina pursue their course as simple axis-cylinders of very different thick- nesses ; after certain reagents they exhibit more or less regular varicosities (M. Schultze). In the rabbit’s retina there are two bundles of nerve fibres with medullary sheath passing from the optic nerve into the retina (Bowman). In the human retina and that of the mammals it is exceptional to find medullated nerve fibres, even in the neighbourhood of the papilla nervi optici. The connective tissue band which includes the central blood-vessels of the optic nerve, may be followed for a short distance into the nerve-fibre layer of the retina as thin bundles of connective tissue between the nerve-fibre bundles. Further away the nerve bundles are separated from one another by the same lymph-spaces that have been mentioned in Chapter XIV. p. ioo, of the optic nerve, containing also the flat nucleated cells, described there as neuroglia cells. According to Schwalbe, they are more of the character of endothelial cells. Numerous fine fibrils arranged in horizontal networks have been observed in this layer by Kuhnt ; diey anastomose by means of fine trabeculae with the reticulum of the inner granular layer, with which they are indentical in their nature. io. The Membrana Limitans Interna. The inner boundary of the retina is formed by the inner extremities of the radial or Muller’s fibres, just as the limitans externa of M. Schultze is the outer boundary layer of the honeycombed matrix into which the outer extremities of the radial fibres of Muller break up. The fibres of Muller are pyramidal structures, which with their broad bases are in close contact and thus form a complete inner boundary of the retina, the limitans interna (Schwalbe). These bases are of various sizes, and when viewed from the surface in suitable preparations, e.g. in those stained with nitrate of silver, appear as a mosaic of