109 GANGLION CELLS OF GREY MATTER OF BRAIN. matter: they possess, (a) a process of the apex more or less branched and directed towards the surface; (fi) the lateral processes of the basis, always branched ; both these processes lose themselves in the nerve network ; (y) the median process of the basis, being the axis-cylinder process, remains unbranched and passes downwards into the white matter as a medullated nerve fibre. 4) This layer contains numerous small irregular ganglion cells with few branched processes ; while the ganglion cells of the former layers are regarded by Meynert as motor cells, the last-named ones are considered by him as connected with sensory nerves ; they represent the ‘granular formation ’ of Meynert. 5) The last layer contains more or less spindle-shaped and branched ganglion cells of medium size; their direction is chiefly parallel to the surface. The processes of the ganglion cells of these different layers are, like those of the spinal cord, finely striated, being composed of minute fibrils. This is especially the case with those of the ganglion cells of the third or chief layer ; Meynert, Huguenin and Boll describe also the axis cylinder of these cells as distinctly fibrillar. All these ganglion cells possess a spherical or slightly oval nucleus ; under some conditions of preparation this contains a large nucleolus. The cell substance is a distinct network of fibrils, and includes sometimes small masses of yellowish brown pigment. Each ganglion cell and its processes lie in a lymph space, pericellular space (Ober- steiner). Different from this arrangement, in five layers, is, according to Meynert:— a) The grey matter of the posterior portion of the occipital lobe about the sulcus hippocampi, in which Meynert distinguishes eight layers. The most prominent features are here the small multipolar cells, Meynert’s ‘ granular formation.’ b) The cortex of the cornu Ammonis, in which the small cells of the above fourth layer are wanting, but the cells of the second and especially of the third layer form the chief elements. Meynert on account of this designates the above third layer as the ‘ formation of the cornu Ammonis.’ c) In the walls of the fossa Sylvii, especially in the claustrum, the spindle-shaped cells of the above fourth layer are the prevalent features. d) The bulbus olfactorius. This contains a small central cavity lined with columnar ciliated cells, and a thick cortex. In man the upper part of this is white matter, being a continuation of the tractus olfactorius; the rest is grey matter and consists, from below upwards, of:— a) A layer of non-medullated nerve fibres possessed of a sheath of Schwann; these pass into the olfactory nerve proper, to the olfactory end-organ. 3) Stratum glomerulosum. This consists of a layer of spherical or irregular glomeruli;