328 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. strata of horny homogeneous transparent scales, the nail cells, which when treated with certain reagents show each a staff-shaped, or a discoid, much flattened remnant of a nucleus. The number of these strata increases from behind forwards and from the lateral margin towards the middle line. The stratum Malpighii of the nail-bed possesses exactly the same structure as that of other parts, with the difference that the stratum granulosum is absent in the region of the matrix, but is present, although only rudimentary, in the rest of the nail-bed (Hebra). At the nail groove the stratum corneum and stratum lucidum of the free skin pass a short distance over the nail-root. A similar relation exists also between the lower surface of the nail-margin and the adjacent skin. The corium of the whole nail-bed is very vascular; its deeper portion is firmly connected with the subjacent periosteum by stiff bands of connective tissue. Together with the stratum Malpighii it is placed into permanent and regular folds, which are leaflike in the posterior part, including the region of the lunula, but low ridges in the rest of the nail-bed. The nail possesses on its lower surface the corresponding linear indentations, deep in the posterior portion, shallow in the rest. On the above folds of the nail-bed longer or shorter papillae may be met with. Papillae are absent in the corium of the lower part of the nail groove, and there are no glands here or in the nail-bed. The rudiment of the nail appears in the human foetus in the third month, the nail groove being the first part differentiated. The stratum Malpighii of the foetal nail-bed in its whole extent is covered with a stratum corneum as in the ordinary skin, and the nail is developed and continues to in- crease in thickness underneath it (stratum corneum) by a conversion of the superficial layers of the stratum Malpighii into horny scales. This conversion extends over the whole surface of the nail-bed (Kolliker). By the end of the fifth month the front margin of the nail breaks through the stratum corneum, and by the seventh month the greater part of the nail has become clear of it. After birth the nail grows chiefly at its root by the continued conversion of the superficial layer of cells of the stratum Malpighii of the matrix into the nail-cells. Unna does not admit the correctness of the doctrine put forward by Kolliker, viz. that after birth the stratum Malpighii of the nail-bed outside the matrix continues to participate in the formation of the nail-cells, but maintains that such is the case only in the region of the lunula. In this he is supported by Hebra ; but, according to this doctrine, it is difficult to explain how the nail should be thicker in front of the lunula than in the region of the latter, if not by a conversion of the cells of the stratum Malpighii of that (viz. front) part of the nailbed.