STRUCTURE OF SWEAT-GLANDS. 3*5 the secretion has an important effect on the diameter of the lumen and the length of the lining epithelial cells. The smaller the lumen, the longer and thinner the epithelial cells ; the more distended the former the shorter the latter. This distal portion of the coiled tube is then, even under a lower power, conspicuously different from the prox- imal, being thicker and more transparent. In some localities, as in the scalp, palm of hand, and sole of foot, and especially the axilla, the scrotum, nipple, and labia majora, the distal portion of the coiled tube becomes greatly developed : being much longer, broader, and its muscle coat more conspicuous than in other localities. In the sweat-glands of some of the domestic animals, as in the dog, pig, sheep, the gland consists of a long, more or less straight, narrow duct and a wavy or more or less convoluted tube; the former opens generally into the neck of a hair-follicle ; it has a cylindrical lumen lined with a delicate membrane, which in some instances (dog) appears distinctly composed of nucleated scales. A single layer of short polyhedral cells, each with a spherical or oval nucleus, is found outside this membrane; the boundary is formed by a membrana propria. The duct passes suddenly into a broad tube (Stirling) which corresponds to the distal part of the coiled tube of the human sweat-gland. The longitudinal muscle coat is everywhere strikingly developed, and lies between the epi- thelium and the membrana propria. The epithelium is a single layer of shorter or longer columnar, transparent, or longitudinally and finely striated cells. The limiting membrana propria is generally thick, much thicker than in the human sweat-glands. The epithelial cells lining the duct do not appear continuous with those of the rest of the tube, and seem to commence suddenly at the end of the duct. In all sweat-glands connective-tissue cells of the surrounding tissue may be seen to extend through the wall, and they may be found as small-branched nucleated corpuscles between the epithelial cells, as has been noticed of other glands in a former chapter. The ceruminous glands of the external ear-passage are situated in the subcutaneous tissue; they are similar in structure to the sweat-glands of other parts, but the coiled tube corresponds in structure to the distal part only of the ordinary sweat-gland. The tube is large and is lined with a single layer of columnar cells, each of which pos- sesses a clump of pigment granules in the inner part; a spherical nucleus is situated in the outer portion of the cell; between this layer of epithelial cells and the distinct homogeneous limiting membrana propria is a continuous layer of unstriped muscle cells (Sangster). 3 a