323 STRUCTURE OF SEBACEOUS GLANDS. away by reagents the above network becomes very conspicuous. The cells increase in size from the marginal layer towards the centre of the alveolus. The marginal layer of cells by division produces new cells; these are gradually pushed on towards the centre of the alveolus, the spaces of the intracellular network becoming at the same time distended by, and filled with, fat globules, and hence the cells gradually become larger. The nucleus is spherical, single, and situated about the middle of the cell. Ultimately the cells are shifted into the duct ; here they do not possess any nucleus, and having altogether lost their regular shape and outline, shrink and collapse into amorphous remnants, their fatty contents having previously become free. The sebaceous glands vary greatly in size in different localities; they are generally larger where the hair-follicles are larger. In the foetus and young child the sebaceous gland and its duct are comparatively much larger than the hair-follicle, and hence the appearance is produced as if the hair were situated in, that is, as if it were part of the duct of the sebaceous gland. As a rule, the duct of the sebaceous gland opens into the neck of the hair-follicle, but in certain localities, as in the labia pudendi majora, scrotum, nostrils, we also find some sebaceous glands opening with their duct free on the surface of the epidermis ; in these cases the sebaceous glands are of a very large size. This is the case also with the large sebaceous glands, or Tyson’s glands, on the prepuce and the corona of the glans penis. There are no sebaceous glands on the volar side of the hand and the foot, the dorsal side of the last phalanx of the digits, and the glans penis. Sebaceous glands of a very large size, both as regards the number and length of the ducts and alveoli, are met with in the skin of the sheep. The Muscle of the Hair. The arrector pili is composed of unstriped muscle cells; in the hair of the adult human skin, especially in the scalp, the muscle attains a very great thickness, being composed of several bundles separated from one another by the connective tissue of the corium; but these bundles are always connected with one another so as to form a plexus. The muscle begins at the hair-sac, a short distance above the bulbous portion of the hair-follicle. The muscle cells can be traced very closely to the glassy limiting membrane between the hair-sac and the outer root sheath, and they are continuous with the transverse muscle cells belonging to the inner coat of the hair-sac. The muscle ascends in an oblique direction through the corium towards the surface of this latter, generally 3 »