7i DEVELOPMENT OF BONE IN MEMBRANE. PLATE XIV. Figures IX. X. and XI. are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350 ; the other two under one of about 250. Fig. IX. From a transverse section through part of lower jaw of human foetus, next the external periosteum. The section had been stained first in carmine and then in haematoxylin. The jaw was in the stage of spongy bone. a) Fibrous layer of periosteum. b) Osteogenetic layer of periosteum. c) Osseous substance, stained pink, and containing numerous bone corpuscles. Next the periosteum the trabeculae are covered with an epitheloid layer of osteoblasts ; the two pointed projections of osseous substance into the osteogenetic layer are parts just in the act of formation. d) Haversian spaces, marrow cavities containing marrow ; some of the cells are arranged as osteoblasts on the-surface of the osseous substance. Fig. X. A small isolated mass of bone next the periosteum of lower jaw of human foetus of a similar specimen as the one mentioned in the foregoing figure. a) Osteogenetic layer of periosteum. b) Multinuclear giant cells; the one on the left side acting here probably like an osteoblast. The large giant cell in the middle of the upper margin of the osseous substance has an opaque lower margin vertically striated. With this margin it rests in a small Howship’s absorption pit. Above c the osteoblasts are seen to become gradu- ally surrounded by osseous matrix, and are thus converted into bone corpuscles. Fig. XI. From a section through osseous substance of vertebral bone of adult mouse; the preparation had been stained in chloride of gold. Nucleated bone cells and their processes contained in the bone-lacunae and their canaliculi respectively. Fig. XII. From a transverse section through part of lower jaw of foetal kitten, next the inframaxillary canal ; the section had been stained first in carmine and then in haematoxylin. a) Periosteum lining the inframaxillary canal. b) Layer of multinuclear giant cells ; each of them situated in a small pit, but close to the osseous substance. These pits correspond to the absorption pits, or Howship’s lacunae. The giant cells act here as bone-absorbers, osteoclasts. The margin of these osteoclasts resting on M