132 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. A termination of nerve fibrils in the nucleus of the muscle cells is not improbable, although it does not take place in a nucleolus. The intermuscular fibrils are occasionally connected with a nucleated pear-shaped, spherical, or spindle-shaped swelling similar to a ganglion cell (Klebs, Gscheidlen). 2. In striped muscle. The nerve bundles ensheathed in their perineurium are situated in the connective tissue separating groups of bundles of muscle fibres, and are composed of medullated nerve fibres of the ordinary description. These branches form a plexus, ground plexus. Isolated and small groups of nerve fibres come off from this plexus ; they are conspicuous by their dividing into two, seldom three, medullated nerve fibres, and are also connected into a plexus, intermediary plexus, destined for the bundles of muscle fibres. Isolated medullated nerve fibres enter the individual muscle fibres in an oblique or vertical manner, the sheath of Schwann of the nerve fibre becoming fused with the sarcolemma, while the axis cylinder, having lost its medullary sheath, passes within the sarcolemma (Rouget, Ktihne). In most animals, man included, the axis cylinder then branches into several thin fibres, forming a network with one another; these fibres remain on the surface of the muscle substance proper, but lie embedded in a granular platelike mass, the nerve end-plate of Ktihne, containing numerous oval nuclei. These nuclei are of three different kinds (Ranvier): some belong to the outer or Henle’s sheath of the nerve fibre; others correspond to the nerve corpuscles ; and finally there are nuclei that belong to the granular matrix of the end-plate. When such an end-plate is viewed in profile, especially in a more or less contracted muscle fibre, it presents itself as an elevation, Doyere’s mount. In batrachia the medullated nerve fibre, after having lost its medullary sheath, divides into several longer or shorter thin fibres (Kolliker), which terminate apparently in a pointed or rounded extremity ; oblong nuclei are attached to them. These fibres are on the surface of the muscle substance, but within the sarcolemma (Kuhne, Krause, Engelmann, Waldeyer, Calberla, and others). According to Ktihne the muscle fibres of batrachia do not possess a granular platelike mass in which these fibres termi- nate, but Krause, Waldeyer, and Axel Key have shown that there is no such distinction, the batrachian muscle fibres showing also a granular platelike matrix for the intra- muscular branches of the axis cylinder. Arndt has shown that in batrachia both modes of nerve terminations occur. There are end-plates, into which enter two nerve fibres (Krause, Arndt). The end- plates differ in size ; generally more than one end-plate belongs to a muscle fibre.