ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 228 tissue and the tissue surrounding the central vein of each lobule (Fleischel, Ewald and Ktihne). Asp, and especially Peszke, mention also the existence of a network of fine fibrils, probably of the nature of elastic fibrils. The blood-vessels. The interlobular branches of the portal vein, at the margin of the lobules, give off the exceedingly numerous capillaries for the latter ; these are extending in a direction radiating towards the central vein into which they open. These radiating or longitudinal capillaries are connected by transverse or horizontal branches into a network. The transverse branches are in some livers more numerous (man, especially dog) than in others (rabbit) ; in the former instances the meshes of the capillary network are more uniform, in the latter they are oblong, of course in a radiating direction. The branches of the hepatic artery are interlobular and accompany the branches of the portal vein, which latter in some places are surrounded by them (arteries) as by a plexus; they anastomose with one another in many places, and finally give off capillaries for the connective tissue of the portal canals and all the structures embedded in it, especially the bile ducts (Kowalewsky). They lead into special veins (Ferrein), which accompany in couples (Beale) the arteries and join the interlobular branches of the portal vein. According to many observers the capillaries and veins derived from the hepatic artery join the capillaries of the lobules directly ; and according to Kowalewsky this takes place by the anastomosis of the blood capillaries of the bile ducts, or of the venous branches proceeding from them, with the capillaries of the lobules at the margin of the latter. But according to Cohnheim and Litten the number of capillaries, derived from the hepatic artery, and anastomosing with the capillaries of the lobules, is but a small one. The capsule of the liver possesses its own branches of the hepatic artery, viz. the rami capsulares : these dissolve themselves into a dense network of capillaries, possessing in some places a stellate arrangement. The gland substance proper is arranged as the tissue of the lobules or acini, and as the bile ducts. Each lobule consists of small polygonal epithelial cells, the liver cells, permeated by the above-named capillary blood-vessels. These two structures, viz. liver cells and capillary blood-vessels, represent the chief parts of the lobule ; the branched connective-tissue corpuscles and the very few fine bundles of fibrous tissue, especially around the central vein, form only a small addition. There is no membrana propria separating the liver cells from the capillary vessels. The liver cells in man and mammals are arranged neither as a network of ‘ cylinders ’ or ‘ trabeculae ’ radiating towards the central vein and separated by the capillary vessels, nor as a compound tubular gland in