299 BLOOD-VESSELS OF VAGINA. The variously shaped projections (folds or rugae) above mentioned contain a plexus of large veins. The connective-tissue between these vessels includes bundles of un- striped muscular cells derived from the muscular coat, as mentioned above. We have thus an arrangement similar to a cavernous tissue (Gussenbaur). A second plexus of veins is situated in the submucous tissue, whose meshes are elongated and parallel with the long axis of the vagina. The connective-tissue, in which the above-named plexus venosus vaginalis is situ- ated, that is the plexus outside the muscular coat, contains numerous bundles of unstriped muscular cells derived from the circular stratum, and hence this plexus also resembles a cavernous tissue (Gussenbaur). The lymphatics form plexuses of fine vessels (capillaries) in the mucosa and of large tubes with valves in the submucosa. There are also numerous lymphatic vessels connected into networks in the muscular coat. The efferent vessels lead into a rich plexus of large lymphatic trunks with saccular dilatations situated in the connective-tissue outside the muscular coat. The mucous membrane possesses either small well-defined solitary lymph follicles or diffuse adenoid tissue (Loewenstein). The nerve branches form a plexus, in the nodes of which are contained ganglionic swellings. The Urethra. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane, in the part next the bladder, is a stratified transitional epithelium consisting of a superficial layer of short columnar, or club-shaped cells, below which are several layers of polyhedral or cubical cells ; further outwards, that is nearer the orificium externum, it is a stratified pavement epithelium. The mucosa is a dense connective-tissue containing rich networks of elastic fibres (Robin and Cadiat) and a greater or smaller amount of diffuse adenoid tissue. Numerous minute papillae with capillary loops project into the epithelium. A great many short simple or compound tubular mucous glands are found in all parts of the urethal mucous membrane, the glands of Littre ; they are analogous to those described of the male urethra. The deeper or loose section of the mucous membrane, viz. the submucosa, contains a plexus of large venous vessels ; the tissue between them contains bundles of unstriped muscular cells, and thus resembles cavernous tissue. This cavernous tissue is considered by some anatomists (Arnold, Henle, and others) as belong- ing partly or wholly to the next outer stratum, viz. the longitudinal layer of the muscular coat. Y Y