4o6 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The matrix of the labium tympanicum is a direct continuation of the tunica propria of the membrana basilaris, and, like this latter, shows under certain conditions, especially in hardened specimens, a fine striation in a longitudinal direction. Both the vestibular and the tympanic labium are firmly fixed on the vestibular surface of the lamina spiralis ossea, with whose periosteum they become identified. In the labium vestibulare, which is greatly thicker than the labium tympanicum, the matrix appears as a direct continuation of the periosteum, and contains in a dense fibrous matrix numerous nucleated cells and a few capillary blood-vessels. At the free surface of the labium vestibulare the substance of this latter appears divided by elongated deep furrows or pits into oblong parallel masses, which towards the inner angle of the cochlear canal, owing to the furrows becoming reticulate, are shorter and more or less irregularly shaped. These are the acoustic or auditory teeth of Huschke. Waldeyer showed that the epithelial cells lining the sulcus spiralis internus, which we left above, is continued into the furrows and pits between Huschke’s teeth as a layer of small polyhedral cells ; at the insertion of the membrane of Reissner they pass into the cells lining this latter. In a vertical section through the crista spiralis these epithelial cells are always recognised by the layer of oblong nuclei arranged in a single line apparently in the sub- stance of the labium vestibulare and extending from the sulcus spiralis to the attachment of Reissner’s membrane. From near the inner angle of the cochlear canal and close to the surface of the labium vestibulare of the crista spiralis, across the sulcus spiralis internus and over the organ of Corti, is stretched a delicate membrane, Corti’s membrane (Kolliker) or the membrana tectoria of Claudius. It is very delicate just over the crista, becomes suddenly thicker while bridging over the sulcus spiralis, and terminates with an attenuated border over the outer hair cells (Hensen, Gottstein), to whose surface it is closely attached. In hardened specimens the membrana tectoria appears finely and longitudinally striated (Lowcnberg, Hensen and others); it is of a tenacious consistency (Hensen) and is probably a cuticular formation (Kolliker). The medullated nerve fibres, as mentioned above, run between the vestibular and tympanic lamella of the lamina spiralis ossea, and on this way form very rich plexuses. At the point of passing through the holes of the habenula perforata they all lose their medullary sheath, and their destination, according to Waldeyer and Gottstein, is this : each axis cylinder either divides in a few branches or breaks altogether up into the constituent primitive fibrils. The former represent of course smaller or larger bundles