85 DIVISION OF NERVE BRANCHES. and Retzius in connection with the lymph-spaces of the perineurium, and they have been shown by those observers to be so numerous that each individual nerve fibre appears surrounded by them. The microscopic branches of a nerve trunk consist of a simple or compound nerve bundle ensheathed in lamellar perineurium. The farther branches of these possess only a very delicate perineurium, which becomes the more delicate the further away from the original nerve bundle ; still further microscopic branches are reached where the perineurium has dwindled down to a single layer of cells, now forming a continuous endothelial membrane. Finally these branches split up into small groups and indivi- dual nerve fibres. Most of the nerve fibres contained in a nerve bundle are medullated ; they differ, as regards thickness, in different animals, in different nerve trunks, and even in the same nerve bundle of the same nerve trunk, some being thick, others medium-sized, and still others thin fibres (Kolliker). Each fibre possesses the following structure : (1) the axis cylinder, a solid soft pale central cylindrical structure, showing under certain conditions a longitudinal striation due to its being composed of minute longitudinal fibrils,—elementary fibrils (Max Schultze) —between these fibrils are seen minute granules, indicative of an interfibrillar granular cement-substance. (2) The medullary sheath, a thick bright sharply outlined (doubly contoured) fatty semifluid substance, forming a thick insulating cylindrical sheath around the axis cylinder; it coagulates very soon after deaih, and easily separates spontaneously, after pressure water, &c., into smaller or larger simple or compound spherical or globular droplike bodies. Under certain conditions (especially perosmic acid), it has been seen (Stilling, Schmidt, Lantermann, Kuhnt, and others) to consist of longer or shorter cylindrical sections which are imbricated with their margins. They have not been demonstrated, however, on all medullated nerve fibres, and not in the whole course of the same fibre. Each of these sections contains a reticulum (Stilling, Klein), a honey-combed framework ; in the meshes of this lies embedded the above-named bright fatty substance. The reticulum appears as a honey-comb only when looked at from the surface; when viewed in profile it seems to be composed of rod-like elements (Lanter- mann, MacCarthy); these are in reality the septa of that honey-comb seen sideways. This reticular honey-combed framework probably corresponds to the ‘ stroma of neurokeratin/ demonstrated by Kuhne and Ewald after digesting medullated nerves in trypsin. Between axis cylinder and medullary sheath is a very narrow space, periaxial space (Klebs), containing fluid albuminous cement-substance ; during life this space is in ordinary nerve fibres very minute, the axis cylinder being almost entirely in contact