ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. IS4 The capillaries form a dense network in the periphery of the pulp tissue. The blood-vessels are ensheathed in endothelial membranes, which form the wall of lym- phatics. Development of Tooth. The first rudiment of the tooth appears at a time when the mucous membrane covering the lower jaw is vascular embryonal, or gelatinous tissue, i.e. a network of branched embryonal cells ; it is a solid prolongation of the stratified epithelium of the surface into the depth of the mucous membrane ; this prolongation, somewhat thickened at its lower end, is the primary enamel organ. The enamel organ at its deep end becomes invaginated by a papillary mass of vascular gelatinous tissue, the embryonal tooth papilla, which is entirely derived from the mucous membrane. The primary enamel organ is thus gradually converted into the secondary enamel organ, or the enamel cap, a caplike covering of the embryonal tooth papilla. The part of the gelatinous mucous membrane that immediately surrounds the rudiment of the tooth (the secondary enamel organ and the tooth papilla) represents the tooth sack. This is a vascular membrane consisting at first of a network of em- bryonal cells, but soon very numerous fine fibrils arranged in bundles appear in it. The bundles are grouped into lamellae, and these, by anastomosis of neighbouring tra- beculae, form a sort of meshwork with one another. At this period the tissue of the tooth sack is well defined from the mucosa covering it. The connection between the enamel organ and the surface epithelium, owing to the growth of the tissue of the mucous membrane over the former, is severed at a much later stage. The tissue of the papilla, as mentioned above, is very vascular, and is composed of a network of nucleated cells; it gives origin to the pulp, and by its odontoblasts produces the dentin. The odontoblasts make their appearance very early as an epithelial-like peripheral stratum of large more or less columnar cells. The odontoblasts elongate at their outer or distal extremity, and this is directly converted into the matrix of dentin (Waldeyer, Boll, and others). Kolliker, Hertz, and others regard the dentin matrix as an excretion of the odontoblasts. Previous to its calcification it shows, just like the substance of the odontoblasts, the fine net- work of its matrix. The outer extremity of the odontoblasts continues to elongate, and the increment is again changed into dentin; and this process continues as long as the dentin increases in thickness. The most recently formed dentin remains for a certain time uncalcified, and is easily distinguished as such by a well-marked boundary line from the earlier layers of dentin, viz. those that have already become calcified. As mentioned above, I cannot