PERIOSTAL BONE. 63 the osteogenetic layer) appear on the surface of these trabeculae, and by undergoing the same change, viz. into osseous matrix and corpuscles, the trabeculae increase in thickness. The formation of new osseous tissue extends gradually in breadth and depth, and we thus obtain in connection with the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum a stratum of spongy periostal bone around the previously formed endochondral bone. The trabeculae are covered with osteoblasts ready to be converted into osseous substance. This is especially well shown in the immediate neighbourhood of the osteogenetic layer, where the youngest trabeculae are found; these generally originate, as pointed masses, in connection with isolated and bundles of fibres of the periosteum. The continuity of the fibres of the periosteum with the youngest layer of bone trabeculae persists, and represents the rudiments of the perforating fibres of Sharpey. The amount of the periostal bone is in an inverse ratio to that of the endochondral bone. In the shaft of long bones we find, for instance, the periostal bone of great thickness in the centre, at a time when at the extremities only the first trace of it makes its appearance. Again, at a time when the endochondral bone in the former locality has been already almost entirely absorbed into the central marrow cavity, in the latter place, viz. the extremities of the shaft, it is as yet only in the third or fourth stage. The meshes of the spongy periostal bone are the so-called Haversian spaces, and contain marrow, which is merely a continuation of the tissue of the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. 6th Stage. In this stage all or nearly all endochondral bone is absorbed, and the spongy bone constituting the shaft is all derived from the periosteum. But also a certain amount of the trabeculae of this bone becomes absorbed, whereby the meshes of the spongy bone become enlarged (Osteoporosis, Schwalbe). After this a system of concentric lamellae is formed in each Haversian space by its marrow. The spaces are hereby gradually reduced to the Haversian canals, and the spongy bone is thus transformed into compact substance. The remains of the original trabeculae of the spongy (periostal) bone represent the interstitial or ground-lamellae separating the systems of concentric (Haversian) lamellae. The process of osteoporosis and the formation of concentric lamellae comprises only the deeper and middle portions, it does not involve the superficial or youngest layer. At birth the original endochondral bone has already entirely disappeared in many bones, and the compact and spongy substance present are derived from the periosteum, except the spongy bone in the apophyses and in the extremities of the diaphysis, this being endochondral bone. As the formation of bone by the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum continues, the oldest parts, viz. those first formed, and situated near the L