161 DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPHATIC FOLLICLES. The lymph-follicles develop as masses of adenoid tissue around the wall of a lymphatic, generally unilaterally (Klein). So that they are from the outset surrounded on one side by a lymph-sinus, this being part of the lymphatic vessel. In many in- stances the first appearance of the adenoid tissue is in the wall of a small arterial branch between this and a neighbouring lymphatic. Also the compound lymphatics have a similar history, inasmuch as Sertoli has shown that they are developed as masses of adenoid tissue in the wall ‘of lymphatics connected into a network. Sometimes even in adults (subcutaneous tissue of guinea-pigs and rabbits), small compound lymphatic glands may be seen developing as masses of adenoid tissue with its capillary blood-vessels in the sheath of a minute artery ; these masses form cylinders and are connected into a network, surrounded by, and embedded in, a network of lym- phatics. These cylinders become very much enlarged at the periphery as cortical follicles. In the cavity of the lymphatics, viz. the future sinuses, a young reticulum makes its appearance later on. PLATE XXVIII. Fig. I. From a vertical section through a compound lymphatic gland of dog, the afferent lymphatics of which had been injected with Berlin blue. The section had been stained in picrocarmine. Magnifying power about 25. c. Capsule, containing a few lymphatics cut transversely, these open into the cortical sinuses. I a. Lymph-follicles of the cortex, surrounded by lymph-sinuses. b. Medulla, showing the network of (pink) cylinders of adenoid tissue, and the lymph-sinuses injected blue ; the injection-matter appears in the form of a network owing to its being deposited on the reticulum contained in these sinuses. The trabeculae are not visible under this low power. Fig. II. A portion of the medulla of the same gland as represented in the previous figure, somewhat more magnified, about 90. The section had been stained, first in picrocarmine, and then in haematoxylin. a. Trabeculae of various sizes. b. Medullary cylinders, cut in different ways ; their minute structure is not shown. c. Lymph-sinuses, showing the injection-matter deposited as a network. Fig. III. From a vertical section through the capsule, cortical sinus, and peripheral portion of follicle of a human compound lymphatic gland. The section had been shaken, so as to get rid of most lymph corpuscles. Magnifying power about 350. c c