408 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. with them are the capillaries of the deeper parts of the crista spiralis ; one or the other capillary vessel is seen within the outer portion of the membrana basilaris ; and finally there are numerous capillaries in the ligamentum spirale and connected with the vessels of the periosteum of the bony capsule. The LvMriiATics.—Schwalbe found that injection matter penetrates from the sub- dural space of the brain through the meatus auditorius internus into the perilymphatic space of the labyrinth. Michel confirmed this, while E. Weber found this connection to exist only between the subdural space of the brain and the perilymphatic space, notably of the scala tympani (Key and Retzius), by means of the aqueductus cochleae. Hasse for this reason considers the aqueductus cochleae as the ductus perilym- phaticus. Key and Retzius showed that also the acoustic nerve possesses a continuation of the dura mater as the outer or dural sheath, and one of the arachnoid membrane as the inner or arachnoidal sheath. The subdural space of the brain is continued into a subdural space of the nerve, and similarly the subarachnoidal space of the brain can be traced between the inner sheath and the bundles of the nerve fibres. Key and Retzius further saw that the injection matter follows the bundles of nerve fibres, and ensheathing them, passes also into the lamina spiralis ossea. Hasse maintains that there exists a connection of the aqueductus vestibuli through its csecal extremity, i.e. the above-named saccus endolymphaticus, between the sub- arachnoidal space of the brain and the endolymph of the labyrinth. But Key and Retzius do not admit any such connection of the subarachnoidal or subdural space with the caecal extremity of the aqueductus vestibuli. Zuckerkandl succeeded in injecting from this saccular intradural extremity the endolymph-space of the utricle, and Weber-Liel filled from it by aspiration the whole of the endolymphatic spaces of the human labyrinth, i.e. the utricle and saccule, the semi- circular canals and the cochlear canal, all forming one intercommunicating system of spaces. Weber-Liel succeeded also in demonstrating the connection of the perilym- phatic space of the labyrinth with the aqueductus cochlete; this likewise possesses an intracranial connection, but whether with the subdural or subarachnoidal space could not be decided.