STRUCTURE OF HAIR. 3i9 external root-sheath and its continuation over the papilla, we meet with branched con- nective-tissue cells, in their respective lymph-canalicular system, penetrating from the hair-sac, or the tissue of the papilla respectively, between the cells of the outer root sheath ; here their processes are lost in the interstitial or cement-substance. This relation is very distinct in the foetal as well as in the adult hair-follicles. In the foetal skin of many mammals these interstitial branched cells of the outer root-sheath are pigmented. In sections showing the outer root-sheath, or portions of it, in a bird’s-eye view, the richness of these intraepithelial branched cells is very marked. In those parts where the glassy membrane separating the external root-sheath from the hair-sac is very well developed and thick, the branched lymph-canalicular system containing these branched cells and extending from the connective-tissue of the hair-sac through the glassy membrane into the interstitial substance, i.e. between the cells of the outer root- sheath, is easily followed. Each hair is divided into the root embedded in the hair-follicle, the shaft, freely projecting over the surface of the skin, and terminating in an attenuated free extremity, and the bulb or the thickened distal extremity, inflected over and fixed on the papilla. The root of the hair consists of the substance of the hair, the cuticle, and the hair sheath, or the inner root sheath. The substance of the hair is composed of very long filamentous, spindle-shaped, or narrow and long flat horny scales, which, when treated with caustic alkalies or strong acids, can be isolated from one another. They are then seen to contain a linear remnant of a nucleus. The hair scales are arranged in groups, which in a transverse section through the hair appear as small polyhedral zones; in strongly pigmented hairs the outlines of these zones are unpigmented. Between the hair scales are found the finest air bubbles, as in white hairs, or rows of minute pigment granules, generally absent in white hair, but present in various quantities and shades of colour in coloured hair. These pigment granules, when not abundant, are not contained in the hair scales themselves, but in the interstitial substance separating them, as is more easily ascertained at the bulb. Besides these pigment granules there is diffuse pigment contained in the hair scales. But it is chiefly the granules situated in the hair substance which deter- mine the colour of the hair (Pincus, Boccardi). The different coloration in one and the same grey hair is due to the pigment granules being present in smaller numbers in some places than in others (Pincus). The hair becomes grey if the pigment situated between the cells of the bulb is not reproduced, as it then becomes gradually exhausted (Boccardi and Arena).