337 GLANDS OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. In this region of the conjunctiva palpebrae we meet with the ducts of minute mucous glands, sunk into, and embedded in the tarsal plate, that is in its distal portion into which the Meibomian glands do not penetrate, as mentioned above. Each duct divides into two or three small branches and then passes into branched and convoluted tubular structures, of exactly the same nature and appearance as the alveoli of mucous glands, described on former occasions. The chief and secondary ducts are lined with a single layer of columnar epithelial cells, while the alveoli possess a layer of thin columnar mucous cells. These glands form the first section of the group of glands, identical in structure and nature, of which the greater number is situated in the beginning of the conjunctiva fornicis, i.e. next the tarsal plate. They were first discovered by Krause, and, ac- cording to this observer and myself and Schmidt, are much more numerous in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Those of the tarsal plate have been described and figured by myself, and afterwards by Wolfring. The mucosa of the conjunctiva palpebrae is a thin connective-tissue membrane, which in the adult human subject contains a variable amount of diffuse adenoid tissue. This is generally better developed in the distal than in the proximal part. The mucosa is firmly fixed on the tarsal plate; this is a very dense feltwork of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue without any cartilage, and its anterior and posterior surface is intimately connected by connective-tissue bundles both with the skin section of the lid, and with the conjunctiva palpebrae. At the free margin of the lid the dense tissue of the tarsal plate reaches up to the epithelium, while at the opposite margin it is connected with the bundles of unstriped muscular cells representing the muscular band of Muller. The central part of the eyelids, viz. that between the subcutaneous tissue of the outer skin and the tarsal plate, is occupied by the bundles of the striated fibres of the sphincter orbicularis. They are separated by a loose connective tissue, contain- ing occasionally also groups of fat cells. A comparatively thick layer of muscle fibres is pushed in between the mouths of the Meibomian glands and the cilia, and this is the musculus ciliaris Riolani, of which a minute portion extends beyond the mouths of the Meibomian glands close to the epithelium of the posterior edge of the free margin of the lid. In the foetus the epithelium covering the margin of the lids forms, by coalescence, for both lids, one continuous mass (Schweigger-Seidel); from this epithelium the cilia and Meibomian glands originate, after the same plan as in the skin generally. The branched pigment cells between the deep layer of the epithelium and the cells of the outer root sheath of the foetal cilia are very conspicuous.