STRUCTURE OF VEINS. J43 (c) The intima is always a very thin elastic membrane ; this is composed of networks of longitudinal fibres, more or less confluent into a fenestrated Henle’s membrane. The subendothelial (longitudinal) connective-tissue membrane, mentioned in con- nection with the intima of the arteries, is generally present in most venous trunks in the form of a delicate network of branched cells, but only in some it contains in addition slender longitudinal bundles of fibrous-connective tissue. It is of conspicuous thickness in the vena poplitea (Eberth). (,d) The endothelial lining is composed of short, broad, spindle-shaped, flat endothelial cells with sinuous outlines. In the venous sinuses of the spleen of man and some mammals the endothelial cells are sometimes almost polyhedral, that is, thick and short (Klein). The valves in veins are folds of the endothelial lining of the whole intima and of part of the muscular media; the muscles are slender bundles that run either longi- tudinally or transversely (Bardeleben). The greatest variety exists amongst the larger veins as regards the distribution of unstriped muscles in their wall. The venous vessels of bone and muscle, and of the retina, those of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, the last portions of the venous trunks emptying themselves into the cava superior, the vena jugularis interna and externa, and vena subclavia have no muscles. The veins of the gravid uterus possess only longitudinal (unstriped) muscles. The vena cava, azygos, hepatica, spermatica interna, renalis and axillaris possess an inner circular and an outer longitudinal muscle coat. The vena iliaca, cruralis, poplitea, mesenterica, and umbilicalis possess, between an inner and outer longitudinal, a middle circular muscle coat. The trunk of the venae puJmonales possesses striped muscle tissue (Arnstein, Stieda). In man they are arranged as an inner circular and an outer longitudinal coat (Stieda), and are to be regarded as a continuation of the striped muscle tissue of the left auricle, with which they are identical in structure (Stieda). The intima of the venae pulrnonales of man is a connective-tissue membrane, containing circular bundles of unstriped muscle cells (Stieda). Hoyer showed a direct communication of minute arteries with veins, without the intervention of capillaries, to exist in various places, as in the matrix of the nail, in the tip of the nose and tail of some mammals, in the tip of the fingers and toes of man, in the margin of the earlobe of dog and cat, and especially of rabbit. According to the same observer, this anastomosis occurs either with veins that have no muscular