222 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. b) The lymphatics of the rest of the mucosa appear as a network of finer and broader capillaries and sinuses; these latter surround in many places the crypts of Lieberkiihn to a greater or smaller extent. Just below the fundus of the crypts of Lieberktihn this network of lymphatics is denser and more easily visible. c) These lymphatics send their efferent branches into the submucosa, where they join larger lymphatic tubes with valves : they are connected into a network. When there are lymph follicles, they (tubes) take up the lymph sinuses surrounding a greater or smaller section of the surface of the basis of the follicles (His, Frey, and others), (see p. 164). d) While the efferent trunks of the submucous lymphatics penetrate through the external muscle coat, in order to reach the mesenteric margin, they take up the lymphatic system of the former. This system is a network of lymph capillaries situated between the circular and longitudinal layer ; they take up straight channels and clefts between bundles of unstriped muscle fibres, chiefly of the circular layer. These channels are lined with endothelium, possess no valves, and their arrangement is, of course, parallel with the direction of the bundles. e) The peritoneal covering possesses its own network of lymphatics, the efferent trunks of which join the large lymphatics in the mesenteric margin. The subserous lymphatics take up many lymphatic channels and clefts of the adjoining longitudinal muscle layer. The blood-vessels of the muscle coat are occasionally seen invaginated in a peri- vascular lymphatic, representing one of the above-named lymph channels or clefts between muscle bundles. B. The Large Intestine. The structure of the large intestine is in many respects identical with that of the small intestine, only slight differences existing between the two. The epithelium covering the inner surface, the mucosa and the crypts of Lieberkiihn, possess the same nature in both organs ; there are no villi, but in some instances, as in the colon of rabbit, the mucosa is raised in the form of minute permanent papillae, but these are altogether different from villi of the small intestine, for they (papillae) contain crypts of Lieberkiihn like other parts of the mucosa. Of interest are the bundles of unstriped muscle cells, ascending into these papillae and terminating at the basement membrane (Watney). The muscularis mucosae consists in most places of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. Minute bundles may be occasionally seen branching off from the inner layer and ascending between the crypts of Lieberkiihn.