i8 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. shaped, or columnar; their nucleus divides into two, and then also the cell divides horizontally, and thus gives origin to a polyhedral cell above and a short columnar cell below (Lott, Rollett). This last one again elongates, &c. The cells of the deepest layer are in different stages of this process. As the production of the poly- hedral cells by the deepest cell-layer proceeds, those first formed are pushed towards the surface by those formed last, and the nearer they are brought to the surface the more fiattened do they become (as well as their nucleus). Those on the surface are sub- jected to evaporation and hornification, and in consequence of mechanical influences they become gradually removed altogether. Between the cells of the stratified pavement epithelium are seen from place to place branched nucleated cells—connective tissue cells ; in fig. XII. we see these in a surface- view of the deeper layer of the epithelium of the cornea. The processes of these cells become identified with the intercellular cement-substance ; this is well shown in figure XV., representing the epithelium covering one side of the tail of a tadpole, viewed from the surface. These branched cells are seen to extend with their processes amongst the epithelial cells ; the two upper ones are pigmented, the third lower one is quite colourless. Fig. XVI. is a vertical section through the stratified pavement epithelium covering the (true) vocal cord of man ; the epithelium is placed on a thick homogeneous elastic basement membrane. Some of the most superficial cells have become altogether detached. The epithelium lining the alveoli of the lung is a simple pavement epithelium (see the chapter on Lung). The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the urinary bladder is stratified epithelium, of which the most superficial layer is composed of polyhedral cells of various sizes, each with one, two, or three nuclei—Figure XVII., and several other layers of columnar cells, which are club-shaped and spindle-shaped ; those next the superficial layer of polyhedral cells are large club-shaped cells, those of the depth are smaller and more spindle-shaped ; each has an oval nucleus—Fig. XVIII. This stratified epithelium is therefore a mixed epithelium, and is generally called transitional epithelium. Similar transitional epithelium may be found at those places where stratified columnar epithelium passes into stratified pavement epithelium, e.g. larynx, upper part of palate, upper part of pharynx, &c. The polyhedral (hexagonal) cells covering the external layer of the retina, and containing in most animals (except albinos) dark pigment granules, will be specially described in the chapter treating of the Retina.