285 CHAPTER XXXII. THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. The Ovary. The framework of the human ovary, as well as that of mammals, consists of (a) the tissue of the hilum, and (b) the stroma of the parenchyma. a) The first is loose fibrous connective-tissue, extending also into the parts con- taining the Grafian follicles, that is, into the parenchyma, or zona perenchymatosa of Waldeyer. It is very rich in big vessels, and may be therefore called, with Waldeyer, the zona vasculosa. Numerous bundles of unstriped muscle cells pass from the ligamen- tum latum into this zona vasculosa, and accompany the blood-vessels as longitudinal bundles. Some of them enter also the parenchyma. <$) The stroma of the parenchyma is a very peculiar tissue, consisting of bundles of shorter or longer transparent spindle-shaped cells, each with an oval nucleus. There is a very small admixture of fibrous connective-tissue, brought in chiefly with the vascular branches. The ovaries are, in this respect, subject to great variations, for in some cases (cat, dog) there is very little to be seen of such bundles, while in others (man, rabbit) we meet with bundles of connective-tissue, in some places of considerable size. The above bundles of spindle-shaped cells cross each other in many ways, and thus form a tolerably dense tissue. According to the distribution of the parenchyma, that is, the Grafian follicles, the stroma forms larger or smaller continuous masses. There is generally in the cortex of the ovary a layer of stroma of appreciable thickness, not containing any ova; this layer is the albuginea of Henle. In man this albuginea shows a distinction into an outer and inner longitudinal and a middle circular layer of connective-tissue (Henle). In many mammals it consists only of bundles of spindle-shaped cells, which extend either longitudinally or obliquely. In the cat the bundles of the albuginea are grouped as a superficial thin longitudinal layer, underneath which in many places is a deep circular or slightly oblique layer. Around the larger and largest Grafian follicles the stroma of spindle-shaped cells is arranged in more or less concentric layers. Between the spindle-shaped cells also branched cells are to be met with; they are elongated, each with an oblong nucleus, their processes pass in a longitudinal U U 2