NERVE TERMINATION IN STRIPED MUSCLE. i33 According to Arndt they are always numerous in the muscle fibres of vertebrates, man and mammals included. It is not decided whether the intramuscular nerve fibres terminate in the end-plate (Kiihne, Ranvier, and others), or whether fine fibrils pass beyond this latter (Margo, Engelmann, especially Arndt, T. Gerlach) ; that they do not do so is maintained by the most recent investigators (Fischer, Ewald, Biedermann). According to Arndt the end-plate and end-divisions of the motor fibres are alone intramuscular; with them are connected nerve fibres which join into a plexus, which is extramuscular, i.e. situated outside the sarcolemma of the muscle fibre, such as had been seen by Kolliker, Beale, Krause, and others. Arndt regards them as sensory nerve fibres. According to L. Gerlach, the bundles of the muscle fibres of the heart (of frog) possess a network of fine non-medullated nerve fibres, perimuscular network. Fine fibrils come off from this and form a network between and around the individual muscle fibres, intramuscular network ; but only seldom do these nerve fibrils join the substance of the muscle fibres. According to Fischer, however, the nerve fibrils terminate only in the above network, viz. between the muscle fibres, without ever joining the substance of these latter. G. Nerve termination in tendons. Tendons possess numerous medullated nerve fibres, which, in some instances, are distinguished by their repeated division and formation of a plexus (Sachs, Rollett, Gempt). They run generally a long and straight course in conformity with the arrangement of the tendon bundles (Golgi). The termination of the nerves is effected in special organs (Sachs, Rollett, Golgi), which are more numerous near the muscle than in other parts (Golgi). It takes place in two different ways : (a) the nerve fibre loses its medullary sheath, and its axis cylinder branches into several fine branches, these dissolve themselves into very short elementary fibrils, which form a dense network (Sachs); (&) the ultimate fine nerve fibrils are occasionally embedded in a hyaline or granular nucleated ground- substance (Rollett), and thus an end organ is produced in some respects similar to an end-plate in muscle fibres. In some tendons there are, in addition, nerve fibres that terminate in the shape of peculiar end-bulbs (Sachs), similar in structure to the end-bulbs of the conjunctiva (Golgi). In the tendon sheaths Rauber describes as ‘synovial bulbs’ peculiar end-bulbs of medullated nerve fibres, similar in structure to the Pacinian corpuscles, but much smaller. In the aponeurosis of the cutaneo-pectoral muscle of frog Tschiriew found the nerve