340 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The Lachrymal Glands. These correspond in structure to the true salivary glands. A connective-tissue capsule is in connection with the septa by which the gland is divided into lobes and lobules. The larger or interlobular ducts are lined with a layer of thin columnar cells; the intralobular branches, the lachrymal tubes of Boll, are lined with a layer of columnar cells, whose external portion, just like those of the corresponding parts in the salivary glands, appears very distinctly fibrillated ; the inner portion, that is the one next the lumen, is only slightly striated. The nucleus is situated in about the middle of the cell. Each branch of the intralobular ducts passes through an intermediate portion into the alveoli. The former is a long fine tube lined with a layer of flattened cell-plates, often imbricated with their margin (Boll). These cells are traceable into the interior of the alveoli as the centroacinar cells, similar to what has been observed by Langerhans in the pancreas. The alveoli are longer or shorter, tubular, more or less convoluted structures, possessed of lateral and terminal tubular or saccular branches. The membrana propria is composed of homogeneous flat branched cells, from which membranous septa penetrate between the epithelial cells of the alveolus. These latter are a single layer of polyhedral, cubical, ( granular ’-looking cells, each with a spherical nucleus, and in this respect they completely resemble the lining cells of the alveoli of the serous or true salivary glands. The central fine lumen of the alveoli and its connection with the intercellular sub- stance, or, what some observers call the intercellular capillary ducts, is the same as in other glands, and has been fully described in connection with the salivary glands ; see Chapter XXIV. p. 190. Reichel studied the state of the alveoli in rest and during secretion, and found that in the former condition the lining cells are well defined, conical or cylindrical, and com- posed of a transparent, slightly granular protoplasm, each possessed of an irregular nucleus situated in the outer third ; while during secretion the cells are smaller and very opaque and granular, and their outlines not well defined, the nucleus being at the same time spherical and placed centrally. The distribution of the blood-vessels is identical with that of the salivary glands. The terminal distribution of the nerves is not known. The lymphatics form a plexus of valved vessels in the interlobular connective tissue ; they take up large lymph sinuses surrounding the alveoli, which form a continuous system of spaces (Boll). Harder’s gland, occurring in most mammals on the inner angle of the eye, and