166 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. reticulum still presents its embryonal aspect, being composed of nucleated branched cells. These cells consist of a flattened body with broad platelike sections (Afanassiew) ; numerous delicate filamentous and membranous processes are joined together so as to form the reticulum. The reticulum of the medulla contains coarse and short fibres ; those of the cortex are finer and longer (Watney). In the meshes of this reticulum lie the ordinary lymph-corpuscles, as described in connection with the adenoid tissue of the other lymphatic glands; each lymph-corpuscle consists of a spherical nucleus, deeply staining in the different dyes, and of a very delicate zone of protoplasm. In the cortex of the follicles these lymph-corpuscles more or less completely fill the meshes of the reticulum; in the medulla they are by far not so numerous. To the meshes of the reticulum appertain also endotheloid cells, transparent large cells, each with a transparent large oval nucleus. In the medulla these cells are very numerous, and regularly distributed, in such a manner that each of them fills the greater part of a mesh of the reticulum. Hence the lymph-corpuscles are here reduced to a narrow zone between the branches of the reticulum and the endotheloid cells. The effect of this arrangement is that the medulla is at once very conspicuous by its transparency and by the few lymph-corpuscles limited chiefly to the sides of the meshes of the reticulum. These endotheloid cells are also present in the cortex, but being smaller, a greater section of each mesh of the reticulum is filled with the lymph-corpuscles. In many places the endotheloid cells of the medulla, occasionally also of the cortex, are less transparent, being more granular, and include one, two, or three nuclei (large granular cells of Watney). From these to multinuclear giant cells all transitional forms may be met with. The so-called concentric corpuscles are protoplasmic masses of various sizes ; they occur in the medulla, and each consists of a central nucleated granular part, around which are placed, more or less concentrically, flattened nucleated endotheloid cells (Watney). According to Afanassiew the concentric corpuscles are developed in blood-vessels by a multiplication of the lining endothelium ; hereby the vessel becomes gradually obliterated, and the involution of the gland is thus initiated. According to Watney they are, on the contrary, concerned in the formation of blood-vessels and connective- tissue trabeculae. Each follicle possesses a network of capillaries, chiefly belonging to the cortex, and radiating from the periphery towards the centre ; the medulla possesses larger vessels than the cortex (Watney). In the dog the larger vascular branches penetrate