STRUCTURE OF SPINAL CORD. IOI w. White matter, showing the small septa passing into it from the periphery; the nerve fibres (in transverse section) are represented only in the circumference of the grey matter. c. Central canal of grey matter. A. Anterior horn of grey matter. The processes that pass from the anterior and inner portion of the anterior horn, including the upper S, correspond to the anterior nerve roots. The process coming out from the posterior angle of the posterior horn, also marked S, corresponds to the lateral bundle of the posterior nerve root. In the grey matter the ganglion cells are indicated as larger or smaller corpuscles, each surrounded by a pericellular lymph space. The anterior and lateral group in the anterior horn are well shown ; also a few large cells in the front part of the posterior horn. Fig. II. The front part of the anterior horn of fig. I., more highly magnified. Numerous nerve fibres pass from the grey matter into the septa of the white matter ; this latter is not represented, except by a few adjacent medullated nerve fibres in trans- verse section. Fig. III. From a transverse section through the spinal cord of calf, magnified about 180 diameters, showing part of the central canal, and the tissue immediately around it, viz. the ‘ central grey nucleus.’ The canal is lined with epithelium, composed of ciliated more or less conical cells ; in most instances a filamentous process passes from the cell into the tissue underneath. This tissue contains, in a hyaline matrix, a network of fibrils; most of these run horizontally, others have a longitudinal course, and appear therefore here cut transversly, i.e. as small dots. The nuclei correspond to the cells of the neuroglia, the cell substance not being shown. Both the nuclei of the neuroglia cells, as well as those of the epithelium, contain three or more large disc-shaped particles. But there is a delicate reticulum, besides, in the nucleus. This is, however, not seen on ac- count of the relatively low magnifying power. Fig. IV. Transverse section through the same cervical part of spinal cord of calf as represented in fig. I., seen under a lens. A. Anterior fissure. p. The tissue filling the so-called posterior fissure. Fig. V. Several multipolar ganglion cells, as they appear under a power of ioo, in a section through the anterior horns of a hardened spinal cord. Fig. VI. Transverse section through the cervical swelling of the spinal cord of calf, as seen under a lens. The grey matter differs in its general outline from that of fig. IV., inasmuch as the anterior and posterior grey commissure is reduced to a thin plate.