STRUCTURE OF THE PULP OF TOOTH. 183 The tissue of the periosteum surrounding the cement differs in no respect from the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, such as that covering the outer surface of the alveolus of the jaw. The mucous membrane of the gums will be described in connection with the mucous membrane of the oral cavity; but its tendinous nature, its firm connection with the fibrous layer of the periosteum, the regular and beautiful papillae, and the fine prickle cells of the middle layers of the stratified epithelium, may be here mentioned. The pulp is a continuation of the alveolar periosteum. It consists of a great number of cells, these are chiefly branched cells, each with an oval or spherical nucleus; the cell substance surrounding the nucleus is very small in amount, and is drawn out in two or three homogeneous long processes which at their extremities are richly branched ; by their anastomosis with one another they form a dense reticulum of homogeneous fine fibres, the matrix of the pulp tissue. A few spherical lymphoid corpuscles are to be met with in it. At the periphery the cells of the dental pulp form two distinct strata of different cells. The outer stratum, that next to the inner surface of the dentin, is a layer of beautiful columnar cells ; their substance is a dense reticulum ; each cell contains an oval nucleus in the inner section. This layer is the layer of odontoblasts (Waldeyer, Boll). The cells are possessed of fine processes directed towards the pulp and connected with the cells of this latter. According to Waldeyer, Boll and others, the odontoblasts send processes into the dentinal canals as the dentinal fibres, and are also possessed of lateral processes by which they (odontoblasts) are connected with one another. The deeper stratum is composed of spindle-shaped or pyramidal cells wedging themselves in between the odontoblasts ; they are identical with the branched cells of the pulp, mentioned above, of which they are merely a dense superficial row. They are accordingly in connection with the reticulum of the pulp matrix, and also amongst each other. Each of them sends two or more filamentous processes towards the dentin, whose canals they enter as the dentinal fibres. [However great the authorities who maintain that the cells of the outer stratum, above referred to as the odontoblasts proper, send processes into the dentinal canals as the dentinal fibres, I must question the accuracy of this assertion, for I cannot find convincing evidence of those odontoblasts doing more than producing the dentin matrix, as will be described below. The dentinal fibres appear to me derived solely from the deep layer of cells which, as has been mentioned just now, are wedged in between the former.—E. K.] Boll first pointed out the great number of non-medullated nerves in the superficial part of the pulp-tissue. The fibrils ascend from here between the odontoblast; it is probable, although not proved, that they ascend into the dentinal canals.