423 CHAPTER XLII. THE SPLEEN. The framework of the spleen of man and mammals comprises the capsule, the tissue that is carried into the interior through the hilum and the trabeculae. The capsule is a relatively thick membrane covered on its free surface with an endothelium identical with that of the peritoneum. Underneath it is a delicate layer of connective tissue containing numerous networks of elastic fibrils. This is the proper serosa ; underneath it is a feltwork of trabeculae of connective tissue, crossing each other in various directions and containing a network of blood- vessels and numerous medullated nerve fibres. In the capsule of most mammals,, underneath the serosa, there exists a great amount of unstriped muscle tissue in bundles. (Kolliker). These are arranged in most instances as a deep longitudinal and a super- ficial transverse layer. But the bundles within the same layer are connected into plexuses. They are very conspicuous in the capsule of the spleen of the pig, horse, and ox (Billroth, Kyber), but also in that of the dog. In the spleen of the ape there exists a thin longitudinal layer of muscle cells only in the deeper part. In the human spleen there exist only thin bundles of muscle cells (W. Muller, Kyber) arranged in plexuses. In connection with the capsule are the trabeculae. These are of various sizes, and, passing into the interior of the organ, i.e. into the parenchyma, divide re- peatedly, and the branches reuniting form a dense plexus pervading the parenchyma in all different directions. The trabeculae are of very various thicknesses and lengths, and hence also the meshes are of various sizes and shapes. Most of the trabeculae are cylindrical, but some of them are also flattened, bandlike. Very fine branches come off from them, and terminate freely in the parenchyma. The trabeculae are at the same time the carriers of the vascular trunks, both blood- vessels and lymphatics, and of the nerve branches, and as such form a continuity with the trabeculae passing in at the hilum. The trabeculae of the human spleen are made up chiefly of fibrous connec- tive tissue, but there exists also a considerable amount of unstriped muscular tissue (W. Muller, Meissner, Frey, Kyber), longitudinally arranged, both in the large and 3 P 2