197 VESSELS IN MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF MOUTH. The Blood-Vessels ; the arterial trunks give off branches which pass in an oblique direction through the mucosa, in the superficial parts of which they dissolve into a network of capillaries extending in a horizontal direction. Single or double loops of capillaries of this network occupy the papillae. The veins proceeding from the super- ficial capillary network form a plexus the efferent branches of which pass into the submucous tissue, where they join the large venous trunks. Lymph follicles, striped muscle, fat tissue, and mucous glands possess their own system of blood-vessels, consisting of afferent arterioles, a dense network of capillaries, and efferent veins. The nature of the capillary network differs in these different tissues; its characters in lymph follicles, in striped muscle and fat, have been described in previous chapters ; as for the mucous glands the capillaries form a uniform network surrounding the alveoli similar to what is the case in the salivary glands. The lymphatics; these are arranged, according to Teichmann, as a superficial net- work of tubular capillary vessels belonging to the surface of the mucosa : from it ascend blind or looplike branches for the papillae. Lymphatic vessels with valves pass from this network, and penetrate into the depths and join the deep network of large trunks belonging to the submucous tissue. The relation between the lymphatic capillaries and the lymph-canalicular system of the mucosa, as well as that of the interfascicular spaces and sinuses of the submucous tissue to the lymphatics of the latter, has been mentioned on a previous occasion. The nerves; they are distributed as a subepithelial plexus of fine bundles of nerve fibres, as a subepithelial network of fine elementary fibrils, and finally as intraepithelial fibrils, which probably terminate as a network (Elin), described in Chapter XVIII. It remains to be added here, that Krause observed end bulbs in the papillae of the lips of the mouth of many mammals ; Kolliker and Gerlach found in the same places, viz. papillae of lips, tactile corpuscles similar to Meissner’s corpuscles in the skin. 2. The tongue.—The mucous membrane of the tongue differs in structure in several respects from that of other parts ; on the dorsum of the tongue it is very thin and firmly connected with the muscular tissue, but at the root it is much thicker, looser, and placed in numerous complex permanent folds. The epithelium covering the surface of the tongue is everywhere a stratified pavement epithelium, it is much thinner at the lower surface than in the other parts. The freely projecting papillae filiformes and fungiformes, including the papillae circumvallatae, are covered with the same stratified pavement epithelium as other parts, with the difference that, owing to the erect position of the papillae and to the epithelium following the surface of these II H