ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 154 CHAPTER XX. LYMPHATIC GLANDS. A. Compound Lymphatic Glands. As such are to be regarded the glands that are interposed in the course of lymphatic trunks, as the subcutaneous lymphatic glands, the cervical glands, the bronchial and mesenteric glands, the glands at the hilus of the spleen and liver, &c. The knowledge of their structure we owe chiefly to the researches of Kolliker, Frey, and Teichmann, and especially His and v. Recklinghausen. Each gland consists of: (i) a framework, (2) the gland tissue proper, (3) the lymphatics, and (4) the blood-vessels and nerves. (1) The framework is composed of : (a) the capsule, a connective-tissue mem- brane arranged as an outer and inner stratum. The former is composed of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue crossing each other in different directions; between the bundles are the ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles; a limited number of elastic fibrils connected into a network may be always met with, and also occasionally groups of fat-cells. This outer stratum is connected with the surrounding loose connective tissue. The inner stratum shows a lamellar structure; the lamellae consist of parallel bundles of fibrous connective tissue, and are separated from each other by flat connec- tive-tissue corpuscles. Migratory cells may be occasionally met with between the lamellae. (d) In connection with this inner stratum are membranous septa, which penetrate into the interior of the gland in a direction vertical to the surface but more or less radiating towards the hilus, from which emerge the efferent lymphatics. These septa are of the same structure as the inner stratum of the capsule, of which they are direct prolongations. (c) Having penetrated into the gland for a considerable distance, varying in different glands and even in different parts of the same gland, the septa branch into broader or narrower trabeczilce, which run in all different directions and anastomosing with one another form plexuses with relatively small meshes. The structure of the trabeculce is the same as that of the septa. The part of the gland containing the septa is spoken of as the cortex, the rest, viz. that containing the plexuses of the trabecuke, as the medulla.