59 JUNCTION OF CARTILAGE AND BONE. Where spongy bone is in immediate contact with hyaline cartilage, as is the case in the apophyses and extremity of the shaft of long bones, in some parts of short and flat bones there exists a peculiar relation between the two tissues. Passing from the hyaline cartilage into the spongy bone the following layers may be distinguished :— 1) After passing the ordinary hyaline cartilage we enter into a broader or narrower layer of hyaline cartilage, in which the lacunae for the cartilage cells are greatly enlarged, and hence the hyaline ground-substance is much reduced in amount; the cartilage cells themselves are very transparent, and their nucleus much swollen; in many instances their disintegration has commenced. This layer of ‘ large cartilage lacunae ’ is for obvious reasons more transparent than the other hyaline cartilage, and hence is easily recognised even on inspection with the unaided eye. 2) In the next layer the lacunae of the cartilage cells become more or less confluent, and the cells themselves are seen gradually to break down into irregular amorphous matter, the hyaline ground-substance of the cartilage becoming at the same time impregnated with lime-salts, i.e. calcified. This and part of the following layer repre- sent what is sometimes called the zone of ossifying cartilage ; but as the cartilage does not ossify—that is to say, is not converted into bone, but is merely calcified—it should be more appropriately called zone of calcified, cartilage. 3) In this layer the lacunae of the previous zone are large intercommunicating cavities filled with marrow, chiefly capillary blood-vessels and marrow-cells. The blood-vessels form loops, and do not pass into the previous layer. The spongy network of hyaline ground-substance separating the cavities—marrow- cavities—is also here calcified. We speak of the parts of the framework of this and other spongy matter as ‘ trabeculae.’ The marrow cells next the trabecula of calcified cartilage arrange themselves so as to form a more or less continuous epitheloid covering, osteoblasts, the individual cells being either oblong, or spherical, or branched; they are slightly larger than the other cells of the marrow cavities. Amongst the osteoblasts are multinuclear giant cells. Passing on towards the depth, there appear thinner or thicker laminae of osseous substance on the surface of the calcified cartilage trabeculce ; and the further we pass the more continuous do these osseous laminae become—that is to say, the more perfectly do the calcified cartilage trabeculce become covered with osseous substance (bone matrix and bone corpuscles) ; the calcified cartilage diminishes in amount as a greater depth is reached. 4) Finally, we arrive at a spongy substance that possesses all the characters of spongy bone, but differs from this in so far as its trabeculae are not so thick, and as they include,