THE OUTER MOLECULAR LAYER. 367 certain manner, and pushed out towards the periphery (Hannover) ; hence Brticke’s designation of it as tunica nervea, or Henle’s as stratum nerveum. 5. The Outer Molecular Layer. The outer granular or molecular layer is a dense network of minute fibrils with varicosities (M. Schultze) ; they are embedded in a homogeneous ground substance.. Both in vertical and horizontal sections the reticular nature of this layer is very distinct,, and the granules between the fibrils are only the latter seen in optical section. In the outer portion of this layer, longer or shorter fibrils are met with which run for consider- able distances a horizontal course (M. Schultze, Hulke) and are possessed of minute varicosities. Embedded in, and intimately connected with the above reticulum are branched cells, flattened in a direction parallel to the surface (Golgi and Manfredi, Schwalbe, Krause), and containing a spherical clear nucleus. In the retina of the pike they are arranged in several layers of flattened endotheloid slightly branched cells (H. Muller). The nature of the branched cells of this layer is considered by M. Schultze to be that of ganglion cells. The radial or Muller’s fibres (see below) penetrate vertically through this layer and appear on all sides connected with the reticulum by fine lateral branchlets (M. Schultze, Heinemann, Landolt), but according to Schwalbe, they (viz. Muller’s fibres) pass simply through it (reticulum) without entering into any connection with it. 6. The Inner Nuclear Layer. This layer differs in many respects from the outer nuclear layer, its nuclei being larger and in man and mammals arranged in fewer layers than those of the outer nuclear layer, while in the amphibia the reverse is the case, the inner nuclei forming more layers than those of the outer. The nuclei of the inner nuclear layer are of three different kinds : (a) very elon- gated transparent nuclei with a very distinct limiting membrane, they belong to the radial or Muller’s fibres and lie either altogether within, or only closely at the side of them. (6) The greater number of nuclei of this layer are oval, placed with the long axis vertical to the surface ; in most instances they are without any distinct limiting membrane, and include a uniform honeycombed reticulum ; in the young retina (human as well as of mammals) many of them contain a nucleolus. These nuclei belong to spindle-shaped cells, the body of which is limited to a thin zone of protoplasm around the nucleus and drawn out at the poles into an outer and inner process. The outer is broad and branched and passes through the outer granular layer, while the inner is very thin, threadlike, and beset with minute varicosities; it penetrates radially