5 COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES OF BLOOD. When watching the nuclei of a corpuscle while this is undergoing amoeboid move- ment, it may be noticed that the nuclei also change their shape and place within the corpuscle ; but this need not be due to any spontaneous movement on the part o.f the nuclei, for it can be readily explained in this way: the nuclei being soft are shifted about by the protoplasm within the corpuscle, and are capable of being squeezed into various shapes. But the nucleus of the small colourless corpuscles of newt and frog show sponta- neous movements (Strieker), owing to the contractility of the intranuclear network. The nuclei are generally vesicular in aspect, and, as will be mentioned hereafter, include a minute network of fibrils, in some instances also what may be described as a nucleolus. The colourless corpuscles swell up on addition of water, and all of them show very distinct granules—these being fragments of the disintegrated network—which on a sufficient amount of water having acted on the corpuscles exhibit a quick oscillating movement, the so-called Brownian molecular movement, shown by any granular matter suspended in fluid in a sufficiently finely divided state. The nuclei within the corpuscle swell up and become very pale under the influence of water, and finally fuse into one. The final effect of water on colourless corpuscles is a total disintegration. Under the influence of dilute acid they swell up slightly, the nuclei become distinct as irregularly shrunk bodies surrounded by what appears as a granular mass. In fig, IX. a colourless corpuscle of newt's blood (the lower corpuscle on the right), and in fig. XVI. of the next Plate one of human blood, is shown under the action of dilute acetic acid. In alkalies of sufficient strength the colourless corpuscles swell up and become finally disintegrated. The effect of an electric shock of moderate strength produces a contraction of the living colourless corpuscle, after which the corpuscle resumes its movements again. Strong currents ultimately cause the corpuscle to swell up and disintegrate just as after water (Golubew). The colourless corpuscles are regenerated from lymph-corpuscles of lymphatic glands and from certain endothelial cells of the serous membranes (see Chapter III.). 2. Coloured Corpuscles. In fishes, amphibias, reptiles, and birds, the coloured corpuscles are elliptical discs of an almost uniform yellowish-green tint. A few fishes only (Cyclostomes), and most mammals, possess circular discs. Of mammals, only camelus and auchenia have elliptical blood-corpuscles. The blood-corpuscles of all mammals are without a nucleus, those of the rest of vertebrate animals have a central nucleus. In no instance have they, when fresh, a limiting membrane. They are soft structures and may, by pressure or otherwise, be