iSS ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. CHAPTER XXIV. SALIVARY GLANDS. The salivary glands, according to their structure and secretion, are of three different kinds : (a) true salivary glands, as parotid gland of man and mammals, the orbitalis and submaxillaris of rabbit; (b) mixed salivary or muco-salivary glands, as submaxillary gland of man and guinea pig ; and (^) true mucous glands, as submaxillary gland of dog and cat, sublingual gland of man, orbital gland of cat and dog (Lavdowsky). In all instances, however, we find a framework consisting of a capsule of fibrous-connective tissue, and in connection with this thinner and thicker septa, which subdivide the gland substance into lobes and lobules. This connective tissue is composed of bundles of fibrous-connective tissue arranged more or less in lamellae, and between these are the flattened more or less branched connective-tissue cells. Into the interior of the lobule penetrate only small bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, but chiefly the con- nective-tissue cells. The small ducts within the lobules are always surrounded by a conspicuous amount of fibrous-connective tissue ; the large or lobar ducts run within the connective tissue forming the interlobar septa. There are found in all parts of the connective tissue, both inter- and intralobular, isolated or small groups of migratory cells (Boll, Lavdowsky). The connective-tissue framework is at the same time the support of the blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves and ganglia. The salivary glands of all categories have the same kind of ducts : beginning with the chief duct down to the lobar, and intralobular duct and its finest ramifications, we find in all corresponding sections the same structure. The lobar ducts, as the largest microscopical ducts, possess a relatively large lumen, lined by a single layer of beautiful columnar epithelial cells. Each of these consists of a finely striated protoplasm, owing to its containing an intracellular network of a pre-eminently longitudinal arrangement (Klein); the outer part of the cell contains the oval nucleus with its intranuclear network. Then follows a delicate membrane, on which the epithelium rests, and this is strengthened by fibrous-connective tissue, varying in amount according to the size of the duct. In the largest ducts, including the chief duct, there are unstriped muscle cells included in the wall. The intralobular ducts (salivary tubes of Pfliiger) differ from the former, not merely in their size and position, and in the thickness of their wall, but chiefly by their structure. Each of them possesses a relatively small lumen, this is lined by a single layer