353. STRUCTURE OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. the dilatator ; (b) medullated nerves passing eventually into fine non-medullated fibrils arranged as a network close to the anterior surface; and (c) a network of non-medullated fibres belonging to the sphincter pupillse. According to A. Meyer, there are in addition fine non-medullated nerve fibrils which accompany the capillary blood-vessels and are connected into a network. According to Faber there are ganglion-cells contained in the nerve networks of the iris. 2. The Ciliary Processes. These consist of a matrix which is similar to that of the iris, being a continuation of it; it is chiefly composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres with pigmented branched corpuscles between them. These are most numerous in the part next to the chorioidea. Elastic fibres are also to be met with. The stroma is directly continuous with the tissue of the ligamentum pectinatum, as mentioned above. The part nearest to the sclerotic is of loose texture and contains the larger vascular branches; the super- ficial layer of the ciliary processes contains the capillary blood-vessels. The stroma of the ciliary processes is covered on its free surface with a glassy hyaline membrane, lamina vitrea, in which on being treated with certain reagents, ten p. c. saline solution amongst others, bundles of fine fibrils can be detected. It is a con- tinuation of the basement membrane on the posterior surface of the iris, but is much thicker and possessed of a network of folds (H. Muller), the meshes of which are much closer towards the iris than towards the chorioidea. The pigmented epithelium or uvea, which follows behind the lamina vitrea, is a continuation of the same layer of the iris, and is identical with it in structure. Finally, the uvea is covered with the pars ciliaris retinae, a single layer of columnar transparent cells, each with an oval nucleus (see below). The space between the ligamentum pectinatum, sclerotic, ciliary processes and adjoining portion of the chorioidea is occupied by the ciliary muscle, originating at the ligamentum pectinatum. Nearest to the iris are the few circular bundles of the portio Mulleri, while the radiating part occupies the root of the ciliary processes, in fact causes the projection of them ; the greater portion of the muscle, however, has a meridional direction, and extends from the ligamentum pectinatum between the sclerotic and ciliary processes and chorioidea, for a considerable distance backwards. It is separated from the sclerotic by the thin lamina fusca. The bundles of this muscle are arranged in lamellae, separated from one another by connective tissue, of which in dark eyes the branched pigmented cells form a con- spicuous part. Within each lamella the bundles form plexuses. Near the termination.