io6 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. venous sinus itself. So that there exists a mediate connection between the subarach- noidal cavity and the venous sinuses of the brain. c) The pia cerebralis corresponds to the intima piae spinalis only. The numerous blood-vessels situated in the pia mater and passing to and from the brain possess a special outer sheath by means of which they are fixed on to the pia mater. When entering the brain-substance they carry with them that adventitial sheath (Kolliker, Virchow, Axel Key and Retzius, and others). This sheath is an endothelial membrane only in the capillary vessels, in the larger (arterial and venous) branches it contains in addition a variable amount of connective tissue. The telae choroideae are folds of the pia mater, including a prolongation of the subarachnoidal tissue. They possess on their free surface a layer of polyhedral endo- thelial cells, which in the embryo are ciliated. In man these cells are pigmented. The subdural space of the brain does not communicate with the subarachnoidal cavities nor with the ventricles (Luschka, Axel Key and Retzius). The subarachnoidal spaces do not communicate with a space said to exist between pia mater and brain substance proper (epicerebral space of His), the pia mater being everywhere in immediate contact with the brain surface. The Brain Substance. A) The framework or neuroglia of the grey and white matter of the brain (cerebrum, cerebellum and medulla oblongata) is very similar to that described of the spinal cord. It consists of (a) the same homogeneous (occasionally granular) matrix in which lie (6) numerous minute elastic fibrils connected into a network. In the white matter these fibrils possessing a pre-eminently longitudinal direction are parallel to the nerve fibres, (e) Branched nucleated flattened neuroglia cells—Deiters’ cells—are connected with this network by their numerous processes (Boll, Golgi). Different from the spinal cord, the neuroglia of the white matter of the brain contains rows of small cells, each with a spherical nucleus, between bundles of nerve fibres. These small cells form special accumulations in the bulbus olfactorius and in the cerebellum. In the grey matter the numerous branched connective-tissue cells surrounding the blood-vessels (Boll) are specially to be mentioned. Lewis found them accumulated also around the ganglion cells of the cerebral hemispheres. According to Duke Charles of Bavaria, there are numerous colourless blood-corpuscles present around the blood- vessels and ganglion cells of the cerebral hemispheres, not only in disease, but also in the perfectly normal brain. The neuroglia forms a special accumulation lining the ventricles of the brain, the ependyma. This is a direct continuation of the ‘ central grey nucleus ’ of the cord, and