182 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. manner and in a direction vertical to the surface of this substance. These canals com- mence at the pulp cavity, and become gradually finer as they approach the enamel. Numerous fine lateral branches unite tlusm amongst each other. The wall of each canal is formed by an elastic membrane, dentinal sheath of Neumann; this withstands acids and alcalies. (y) The cavity of each dentinal canal contains the dentinal fibre of Tomes : this is a solid branched fibre, very elastic, and of a homogeneous structure. These fibres are regarded as the processes of nucleated cells lining the inner surface of the dentin or covering the outer surface of the pulp-tissue, generally called the layer of odontoblasts (Waldeyer). The dentinal canals pass, on the outer surface of the dentin, into the interglobnlar spaces of Czermak, or the granular layer of Purkinje. They are larger or smaller branched spaces intercommunicating with one another, and into them terminate the dentinal canals. Where the dentin is covered with enamel, viz. at the crown, the interglobular spaces extend as blind canals a certain short distance between bundles of enamel prisms, as mentioned above; on the neck and fang, viz. where the dentin is in contact with the cement, the interglobular spaces are in direct communication with the bone lacunae and their canaliculi. Just as these latter contain nucleated branched cells, so do also the interglobular spaces include nucleated branched protoplasmic corpuscles : these are espe- cially distinct in young teeth (Waldeyer). The dentinal fibres are directly continuous with these cells, so that an anatomical connection is established between the odontoblasts and the cells of the interglobular spaces. According to Kolliker, Tomes, Wenzel, and others, the dentinal fibres penetrate also into the enamel. The interglobular substance of Czermak is imperfectly calcified dentin ; it is present in distinct and separate layers, more or less parallel to the surface of the tooth : these layers are the incremental lines of Salter. Owing to the curved indentations of the interglobular substance, the adjoining dentin matrix assumes the form of globular masses, dentin spheroids. ‘ The lines of Schreger ’ are parallel to the surface, and are the optical effect of simultaneous curvatures of the dentinal fibres. c) The cement is osseous substance of the nature of ordinary osseous tissue, viz. a more or less lamellated bone matrix containing the bone corpuscles : lacunae and canaliculi, and in these the nucleated bone cells (see Chapter IX.). The bone corpuscles are here exceptionally large, and their canaliculi very numerous. The cement is covered by the alveolar periost, to which it stands in the same relation as other bone substance to the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum (see Chapter IX.). The cement is generally thickest near the apex of the root. In very thick parts of cement Haversian canals with blood-vessels may be occasionally met with (Salter). Sharpey’s fibres exist also in the cement; they are well shown in cement of tooth of dog (Waldeyer).