134 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. fibres forming a network with large meshes; from this fine fibrils come off and terminate in small knoblike swellings. //. Termination of nerves in blood-vessels. The nerve fibres of the microscopic arteries and veins are derived from minute bundles belonging to the adventitia ; they are non-medullated fibres possessed of a sheath of Schwann and the corresponding nerve corpuscles ; they divide into smaller fibres which form a plexus, ground plexus. The nodes of this plexus are, in many places, triangular, and contain one or more angular nuclei. From the ground plexus are derived fine fibres, which belong to the muscle coat of the vessel (Klein, Gonjaew, Gscheidlen) ; they form a plexus, inter- mediary plexus, which is denser in arteries than in veins (Klein, Gscheidlen). The fine fibrils coming off from this last plexus are elementary fibrils, and run between the individual muscle cells. In capillary arteries and capillary veins there are a few fine nerve fibres, with nuclei from place to place (indicative of nerve corpuscles), which accompany the vessel (Beale, Klein, Tomsa), and in some places form a more or less dense network of primi- tive fibrils (Klein, Gonjaew, Jantschitz). In some localities the nerve branches belonging to a vessel are provided with small ganglia (F. Darwin for the urinary bladder, Jantschitz for the dura mater). PLATE XXIV. All figures of this plate are drawn under a magnifying power of about 400. Fig. I. From a preparation of frog’s cornea stained with chloride of gold, showing the network of elementary (beaded) nerve fibrils situated near the Descemetic mem- brane, and coming off from a large branch possessed of a sheath (marked pink). This large branch represents a bundle of elementary fibrils ; they appear to be connected into a network while still within that sheath. Fig. II. From a preparation of rabbit’s cornea stained with chloride of gold, showing portions of two large branches of the subepithelial plexus. They consist of elementary nerve fibrils. Short branches, perforating branches, are derived from them ; they split up into brushlike groups of elementary beaded fibrils, connected into a net- work, subepithelial network. Fig. III. From a similar preparation as the preceding figure, representing a portion of the subepithelial plexus. At the point of anastomosis of the branches of this plexus are triangular thickenings, and it is just here where the constituent elementary fibrils are