STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. i39 The transition of a capillary vessel into an artery is not sudden but gradual, and it is by the muscle cell that we are able to distinguish definitely the latter from the former. The part of the vessel that shows the gradual transition from a purely capillary vessel into one with all the above attributes is called a capillary artery. Following these minute vessels into larger arterial branches, we notice the following changes : (a) besides the cells representing the outer sheath, or adventitia, there is a variable amount of fibrous-connective tissue in the shape of smaller or larger bundles. The larger the vessel the larger the amount of fibrous tissue. In arterial trunks (carotis, subclavia) the adventitia is a complex connective-tissue membrane, inasmuch as the bundles are arranged into groups or trabeculae crossing each other; between them are the interfascicular lymph spaces, containing branched connective-tissue cells, and also networks of elastic fibres arranged parallel to the long axis of the vessel. These elastic fibres are well seen in large arterial trunks (carotis, subclavia, mesenterica) ; they are more numerous, and at the same time thicker, in the inner portion of the adventitia, that is, nearest the media. (6) The muscle cells form a continuous membrane in the media or muscle coat proper : the larger the artery the thicker this latter. Most of the muscle cells are arranged transversely, but in larger arteries there are small bundles of oblique or even longitudinal muscle cells. While in the smallest arterial branches the muscle cells are arranged in a single layer, as the vessel becomes larger, also the number of these layers increases. In a section through a hardened artery, that had been kept distended by blood or otherwise, the muscular coat will appear much thinner than if the vessel had been allowed to shrink ; and it is important to bear this fact in mind when comparing the muscular coat of two arteries. In the arterial trunks the individual layers of muscle fibres are separated from each other by hyaline elastic membranes and elastic networks. In large arteries (carotid, mesenteric) these interstitial elastic membranes and elastic networks become so increased that they form a conspicuous portion of the media. The arrange- ment is then so that thin strata of muscle cells are separated from one another by thinner or thicker horizontal or oblique elastic lamellae, to which are attached networks of fine elastic fibres ; these latter enter also into the individual layers of muscle cells. The elastic lamellae are generally of the nature of fenestrated membranes of Henle; that is to say, a more or less homogeneous membrane with larger and smaller holes. This membrane is in reality a network of broad more or less confluent elastic fibres, the meshes of the network being the holes of the fenestrated membrane. The muscle cells of the media are relatively short, and in arterial trunks are more or less branched at their extremities. In the largest arteries of man, such as aorta,