ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 356 CHAPTER XXXVII. THE LENS AND VITREOUS BODY. 1. The lens of man and mammals is enclosed in a thick resistent elastic capsule, which in the fresh state and after reagents shows parallel to the surface very fine and dense striae. The capsule is thickest on the anterior surface, and diminishes in thickness towards the posterior pole. The posterior surface of the anterior capsule, that is the part covering the anterior surface, of the lens substance, is lined with a single layer of hexagonal transparent granular-looking epithelial cells, each with a spherical or oval nucleus. When properly hardened the substance of the cells contains a delicate dense reticulum, and so does the nucleus, but it is less dense in the latter than in the former. The capsule covering the posterior surface is without any epithelial lining, and is in close contact with the substance of the lens. At the margin the nucleated hexagonal epithelial cells change into nucleated lens fibres, which gradually elongating run in a slightly curved direction from the posterior to the anterior surface. This condition is recog- nisable already in the earliest stages of the foetal lens. Passing then from the margin of the lens towards the posterior pole, we see in a bird’s-eye view a similar hexagonal mosaic as on the anterior surface, but the latter is due to the hexagonal nucleated epithelial cells, while the former belongs to the ends of the lens fibres touching the posterior capsule. The substance of the lens is made up of the lens fibres and the interstitial substance. The lens fibres are bandlike structures passing from the posterior surface to the anterior, their posterior extremity is slightly enlarged and is in close contact with the posterior capsule, while the anterior one touches the epithelium of the anterior capsule. The fibres of the outer layers of the lens substance contain each an oval nucleus, visible under all conditions, those near the middle of the lens possess each a rudiment of a nucleus only demonstrable with strong acids. The nuclear zone of Mayer is the zone near the margin of the lens in which the lens fibres show a distinct nucleus, that is the region of transition of the epithelial cells into the lens fibres. In this zone the nuclei are situated in a curved plane belonging to the anterior half of the lens.