THE MEMBRANA BASILARIS. 401 fibrils of the ligamentum spirale ; they are not connective-tissue fibrils, nor elastic fibrils although they are very like them. The cells covering the tympanic side of the membrana basilaris, when viewed from the surface, appear as small granular cells, each with a spherical nucleus, and very loosely placed side by side and connected with one another by short thick processes. In some places they are further apart from each other than in others ; in the first case they possess long processes, which are branched and by which the cells are connected into a network. In the profile view the branched nature of these cells cannot of course be recognised, and they appear like polyhedral cells. In the region of the arch of Corti (see below) the membrana basilaris contains the venous vas spirale of Huschke, which lies in a lymph-space (Bottcher). In man and most mammals the membrana basilaris contains no other blood-vessel; Nuel found one in the dog, and I have seen in the membrana basilaris of the lower turns of the cochlea of the guinea-pig also one or the other capillary blood-vessel closely placed against the posterior basement membrane but contained within the tunica propria. In the region of the vas spirale, that is exactly underneath the arch of Corti, the mem- brana basilaris forms occasionally a slight bend towards the tunnel of the arch. Following the epithelial cells, or the cells of Claudius, lining the sulcus spiralis externus over the zona pectinata of the membrana basilaris, we arrive at the organ of Corti. Compare fig. III. of Plate XLV. The first structures we meet here are the epithelial cells, which are directly continuous with the cells of Claudius, but which are larger and thicker than the latter; they are known as the S7ipporting cells of Hensen. Some of these contain, notably in the guinea-pig, fat globules (v. Winiwarter). Their position in the cochlea of this animal is different from that of others, in so far as they do not form, as is usually the case, a simple continuation of the last row of the outer hair cells, presently to be described, but they, viz. the supporting cells, ride, as it were, on the last row of the hair cells (see Plate XLV.). Next come the outer hair cells. These cells are placed in longitudinal rows,1 but so that when viewed from the surface, i.e. in the bird’s-eye view, the cells of the neighbouring rows alternate in a regular manner. The rows are counted from the outer pillar of the Corti’s arch as the first, second, third, fourth, &c. 1 The term ‘ longitudinal ’ is used here and in the following as the direction of the long axis of the cochlear canal, the term ‘ transverse ’ as the direction across the cochlear canal—i.e. from the ligamentum spirale to the crista spiralis.