4°9 CHAPTER XLI. THE NASAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The skin at the anterior nares is of the same structure as that of the lips; its large sebaceous glands have been referred to in a former chapter. The first part of the mucous membrane following the skin is composed of a very delicate mucosa, it contains few connective-tissue bundles and a great many endotheloid cells. The epithelium covering it is of this peculiarity, that, like the epidermis, it still possesses a rudiment of a stratum corneum, composed of horny scales, in which remnants of staff-shaped nuclei can be made out. Underneath it are several layers of epithelial cells, completely resembling the stratum Malpighii. There are numerous glands em- bedded in the deep section of the mucous membrane, that is the part next the cartilage. These glands are, as regards structure, in many respects similar to the muco-salivary glands, e.g. submaxillary gland of dog (see Chapter XXIV.). The alveoli are more or less branched and wavy tubes, extending in a direction more or less parallel with the free surface. They are possessed of a small but distinct lumen lined with a single layer of more or less columnar epithelial cells, each with a single spherical nucleus. Their substance appears granular, and in man and mammals is not unlike the mucous cells of the mucous glands. The alveoli pass into a duct, which is consider- ably broader and of a wavy course; it does not pass straight towards the surface, but has at first a direction more or less horizontal, and finally opens in an oblique manner with a wide mouth on the free surface. The lumen of the duct is wide, and its epithelium, except at the mouth, is a single layer of beautiful columnar cells, each with a spherical nucleus in about the middle of the cell. The outer portion of the cell substance appears composed of longitudinal fibrils like those of the epithelial cells lining the intralobular ducts of the salivary glands (see Chapter XXIV.). But also the inner portion of the cell substance shows a faint longitudinal striation. The mouth of the duct is lined with a continuation of the surface epithelium, con- sisting, like this, of a stratum corneum and a stratified pavement epithelium. The stratified pavement epithelium of the surface is replaced sooner or later by columnar epithelium, consisting of a superficial layer of cylindrical or conical cells with