ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 52 substance and elastic framework, and the same may be said of one and the same reticular cartilage in different states of development. They all commence as hyaline cartilage enclosed in perichondrium ; as development advances numbers of elastic fibres appear in the hyaline ground substance ; these branch and anastomose with one another. In a still further stage the networks of elastic fibres reach such an extent that they constitute a conspicuous part of the ground-substance, forming the network of trabeculae, as described above. The hyaline cartilage-substance is now limited only to the meshes of the reticular framework containing the cartilage cells. In the cartilaginous nodule, present in some instances near the margin of the human true vocal cord, we find the elastic fibres not arranged so as to form a reticular framework of trabeculae, but permeating the cartilage as a uniform network of fibrils. Examining sections through the epiglottis of children, we find the reticular framework of clastic fibres not reaching quite up to the superficial part, viz. that next the perichondrium, this (superficial part) being still almost entirely composed of hyaline substance. The cartilage is, in children, not a continuous plate, as usually represented, but in many instances consists of several isolated plates placed in a longitudinal series. As growth proceeds they become gradually con- fluent into a reticulate plate. In the epiglottis of some mammals (dog, cat, rabbit) a great portion of the icticular framework of elastic fibres does not contain hyaline cartilage in its meshes, but fat- cells singly or in small groups. As in ordinary hyaline cartilage, so also in reticular cartilage, we meet with a perichondrium composed of vascular fibrous connective tissue and with the flattened connective-tissue corpuscles in the interfascicular spaces. A communication, by means of broader or narrower canals, between the inter- fascicular spaces of the perichondrium and the lacunte of the cartilage cells, mentioned in ordinary hyaline cartilage, exists also in reticular cartilage. Here the lacunae of the cartilage cells anastomose with each other throughout the cartilage. PLATE XI. Figs. I. and III. drawn under a magnifying power of about 350; fig. II., about 90; figs. IV. and V., about 150; figs, VI. and VIII., about 350; and fig. VII., about 450. Fig. I. From a longitudinal section of tail of mouse; portion of intervertebral fibrous cartilage (connective-tissue cartilage) viewed from the surface. Bundles of fibrous-connective tissue in two layers crossing each other at a right angle; between, or respectively on, the bundles are roundish or oblong cartilage cells, each with a clear nucleus ; the cells are each enclosed in a capsule, and are flattened when viewed in profile.