213 STRUCTURE OF GLANDS OF STOMACH. Fig. XXI. From a vertical section through the pyloric end of the stomach of dog. Magnifying power about 150. s. Folds of mucosa covered with columnar epithelium. ci. The glandular ducts lined with the same epithelium. n. Region of the neck of the gland. m. Body of the gland tubes cut in different directions. mm. Muscularis mucosae, here composed of three layers. The tissue of the mucosa is here represented much denser than in reality. Figs. XXII. and XXIII. each represent a portion of a tube of pyloric gland, the former after prolonged secretion, the latter in ordinary secretion. Magnifying power about 500. In Fig. XXII. the intracellular network is much closer and the cell appears, there- fore, more ‘ granular,’ the nucleus is spherical. a. The epithelial cells as seen from the surface. b. The same as seen sideways. In Fig. XXIII. the cells are more elongated, the meshes of the intracellular net- work wider, and the nucleus flattened. Fig. XXIV. Gland tubes of a mucous gland of oesophagus of dog. Magnifying power about 400. t. One gland tube cut transversely. /. Another as seen in longitudinal section. The epithelial cells lining the lumen are mucous cells. The ‘ crescents,’ com- posed of nucleated opaque cells, are seen in two places. Fig. XXV. From a vertical section through the mucous membrane of fundus of stomach (stained in aniline blue). Magnifying power about 50. d. Ducts of peptic glands, each taking up two thin gland tubes. The epithelium of the surface is of the same nature as in fig. XXI. n. Region of the neck of peptic gland. m. Body of the gland tube. The minute lumen of the gland tube is lined with columnar ‘chief cells,’ outside these are the deeply stained parietal cells. mm. Muscularis mucosae, composed here of two layers. .y. Submucous tissue with a large vessel; between the fundus of the peptic glands and the muscularis mucosae is a small amount of connective tissue. Fig. XXV I. From a vertical section through the mucous membrane of oesophagus of dog. Magnifying power about 50. e. Stratified pavement epithelium. K K