255 DISTRIBUTION OF RENAL TUBULES. layer and the papillary part is formed by the transition of the loop itself (6) into the first thick part of the ascending limb (7). Proximal and distal convoluted tubules (3 and 11), irregular tubules (10), and curved collecting tubes (12) are met with in all parts of the labyrinth, including the peripheral layer of the cortex (a in the diagram), viz. the one mentioned as free of Malpighian corpuscles. The convoluted tubules of this region, viz. next the capsule of the kidney, form more or less distinctly looplike curvatures. The length of the different sections of the urinary tubules in the cortex is subject to very great differences, for to a Malpighian corpuscle, situated in the periphery of the cortex, and whose proximal convoluted tubule extends even into the layer a, must necessarily belong a spiral tubule (4) of much greater length than the one that belongs to a Malpighian corpuscle situated near av And similarly the straight part of the cortical ascending limb of Henle’s loop (9), leading to an irregular tubule (10) that is situated in the peripheral layer a, must be very much longer than one leading to an irregular tubule that is situated near the layer ax. The neighbouring Malpighian corpuscles and the different sections of neighbouring convoluted tubules bear in so far a certain relation to one another, as their spiral tubules, descending and ascending limbs of Henle’s loops, and collecting tubules keep together in the same medullary ray and its prolongation into the boundary layer. Hence each * duct ’ may be considered as the apex of a small cone whose long axis lies in the medullary ray ; its basis is in the cortex, and is formed by the Malpighian corpuscles and the corresponding convoluted irregular and curved tubules above named. These cones are the primitive cones of Ludwig, and the medulla and cortex may thus be con- sidered as composed of as many cones as there are ‘ ducts.’ The above sixteen divisions of the urinary tubules differ from one another in structure in a marked manner. 1. The Malpighian corptiscle. This is composed of the capsule of Bowman and the glomerulus. The capsule of Bowman is the saccular commencement of the urinary tubule ; it consists of a hyaline membrana propria, thickened on the outside by a varying amount of fibrous-connective tissue, mentioned on a former page. The inner surface of the capsule is lined with a single layer of flattened epithelial cells, each with a flattened oval nucleus. In the young state these epithelial cells are less flattened, being more or less polyhedral. The glomerulus is a network of convoluted capillary blood-vessels, grouped into two, three, or more conical lobules. These lobules occupy the cavity of the capsule of Bowman, without, however, filling it. The space between the surface of the glomerulus and the capsule varies greatly in the normal and abnormal conditions, according to the different states of secretion, being dependent on the amount and nature of the secretion present in it. The capillary blood-vessels of the various lobules of the glomerulus are held together by a homogeneous connective tissue, in which are