321 RELATION OF BULB TO ROOT OF HAIR. over the papilla are more or less columnar, and represent, as mentioned above, a direct continuation of the marginal layer of cells of the outer root-sheath. How are the cells constituting the bulb continuous with, or, in other words, how are they transformed into the different parts of the hair and inner root-sheath ? a) At the bulb the polyhedral cells immediately around the papilla in the direction of the axis of the hair pass into, at first slightly then more distinctly, elongated and spindle-shaped cells, whose nuclei elongate in proportion as the cells become drawn out; from these we gradually pass to the very long cells with staff-shaped nuclei that form the substance of the hair-root. Where there is a marrow, the polyhedral cells of this latter form an uninterrupted continuity with similar cells in the centre over the papilla. b) The polyhedral cells next to the axial cells forming the hair-substance pass, in a singledayer, into the cuticle of the hair. c) The next outer layer of polyhedral cells of the bulb is continuous with the membrane separating the cuticle of the hair from Huxley’s layer. d) The one or two layers of cells following next pass into the layer of Huxley; and finally c) The outermost layer or two into the layer of Henle. In all these different layers, as we pass from the bulb on to the root of the hair, we see the small protoplasmic polyhedral cells of the bulb becoming gradually flattened and transformed into horny scales; their nucleus loses its spherical shape, becomes more staff-shaped, and ultimately altogether disappears, except in the cells of Huxley’s layer as mentioned above. Both in the foetal, young, and adult hair, but more easily in the former, a special layer of cells (/), beginning at the bulb end of the root and extending on the lower third of this latter, can be distinguished between the above layers b and c, that is, between the cuticle of the hair and that of the inner root-sheath. This layer, / consists of spindle-shaped cells each with a relatively long staff-shaped nucleus ; the cells and their nuclei are placed transversely across the long axis of the hair, and resemble in all respects unstriped muscle cells just like those of the inner coat of the hair-sac. When focussing on this part of the root of the hair, when this has been cut in a longitudinal direction, the above layer of transversely arranged cells appears around the hair exactly like the transverse muscle cells in a small artery. They stain differently from the other cells of the root, and are conspicuous amongst them ; they diminish in size as we ascend the root, and finally disappear altogether. They are not continuous with either the cuticle of the hair or any part of the inner root-sheath. The bulb contains a quantity of pigment granules varying in amount and shade of