7 COLOURED CORPUSCLES OF BLOOD. connection with the network forming the nucleus, as represented in the accompanying woodcut 2. In the blood-corpuscles of newt we have therefore to distinguish : , a) Network of fibrils of disc. 6) Interfibrillar hyaline ground substance of disc: both a and b together form the stroma. c) Nucleus composed of limiting membrane and network of fibrils in connection with those of disc. d) Haemoglobin contained in the hyaline ground-substance of the meshes of the network of the stroma. In some instances boracic acid shows a different effect from the above—viz. a col- lection of haemoglobin in the central part of the corpuscle, the haemoglobin not having, however, altogether withdrawn from the stroma ; a star-shaped figure of haemoglobin is thus produced in the pale disc (Zooid of Briicke). A similar effect may be easily obtained in frog’s blood after adding water in the proportion of two to one, before covering it with a cover-glass (Kneuttinger). Water makes the coloured blood-corpuscles—disk and nucleus—to swell up and to become entirely deprived of their haemoglobin ; they are then very pale and transparent, with very faint outlines. PLATE II. Figs. XI.-XVI. represent human blood-corpuscles as seen with a magnifying power of about 400. Figs. XVII.-XXI. are blood crystals viewed with a lower power—about 200-250. Fig. XI. Human blood in a fresh microscopic specimen made without the addition of any fluid. There are two colourless corpuscles in the act of moving, being possessed of minute processes. The other corpuscles are coloured ones, most of them arranged in rouleaux-form, and thus seen edgewise; the cause of this appearance, always observed in similar microscopic specimens of any mammalian blood, is not known. There are several isolated corpuscles seen in profile—they appear biconcave ; when seen from the broad surface—as shown in two other isolated examples—they appear as circular discs, which show a transparent centre and a more opaque peripheral part of a yellowish tint Note.—When focussed well, the corpuscle, seen from its broad surface, shows greater transpa- rency in the centre than in the periphery, the former being at the same time less tinted than the latter. The reason is very simple : the corpuscle being p. biconcave disc, is thinner in the centre than in the periphery, and therefore less haemoglobin is present in the former than in the latter. In many books (Quain, Kolliker, Frey, Rollett, Ranvier) the coloured corpuscles are delineated as