19 CHAPTER III. ENDOTHELIUM. Endothelium is understood to be the layer of flattened cells lining the free surface of any membrane, or cavity, or canal that is not a mucous membrane, or that is not the cavity or canal of a secreting gland respectively. The cells of these structures are epithelial cells, they form the epithelium, and are derived, as a rule, from the epiblast or hypoblast of the embryo. The cavities of the heart, of all blood-vessels and lymphatic vessels, lymphatic sacs and sinuses, the free surface of all serous and synovial mem- branes, the cavity of the tendinous sheaths, the subdural and subarachnoidal cavities, the chambers of the eye, &c., are lined with cells which form the endothelium. The endothelium, in common with connective-tissue cells, to which it is closely related, and with which it forms a continuous group, as will be shown below, is derived from the mesoblast of the embryo. It is composed, with few exceptions, of a single layer of flattened cells—endothelial cells—each of which consists of a transparent elastic plate with an oval nucleus generally situated excentrically. The cells are held together by the same semifluid albuminous cement-substance mentioned at the epithelium. On account of the nucleus being thicker in vertical diameter than the cell itself, this latter, when viewed in (real or optical) vertical section, appears spindle-shaped. A careful examination of the endothelial plates of different regions (blood-vessels, serous membranes, lymphatic sacs) in the fresh state, but still better after reagents, shows that their substance is not homogeneous, but possesses within a hyaline ground- plate a plexus of minute fibrils, which in many places are again connected with each other so as to form a network—intracellular network (Klein). The nucleus of each endothelial plate contains—like other nuclei—within a limiting membrane a dense network of fibrils— intranuclear network. This latter is connected by minute fibrils with the network of the cell itself. In those nuclei which may be regarded as in a ripe state the intranuclear network is uniform in its structure, other nuclei—probably in different stages of unripe- ness—possess one, two, or more large particles—nucleoli—included in the network. But in most cases we find also here the small bright dots—optical sections of fibrils— in the nodes of the network. Most endothelial cells possess a single oval nucleus with smooth outline, and in a given group most of the nuclei are approximately of the same size. But there are always isolated cases where one cell contains either two nuclei, E