STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF ORAL CAVITY. 195 ject freely above the general surface of the epithelium, and are covered with a continuation of the general epithelium similar to the papillae filiformes of the tongue (Klein). The deeper parts of the tissue of the mucosa pass insensibly into the loose connec- tive tissue which constitutes the submucosa or the submucous tissue. In this the trabeculae or groups of bundles do not cross so repeatedly, but possess a more or less distinct lamellar arrangement, and are separated by large interfascicular lymph spaces. ' The submucous tissue contains masses of fat cells, the large branches of vessels and nerves, the glands and striped muscle, and extending outwards, forms a continuity with the connective tissue of the surrounding organs, as muscle, periosteum, skin, &c. As has been mentioned in a former chapter, the mucosa of the tonsils and soft palate contains masses of adenoid tissue, which in the former assumes the shape of lymph follicles. In some places the adenoid tissue with its lymph corpuscles by active growth encroaches on the epithelium. The glands of the mucous membrane are mucous glands, and very conspicuous by their large size. The largest are found in the lower lip and soft palate. Each gland consists of the duct and the secreting part proper. The former is a tube passing in a vertical or, more usually, oblique direction from the submucous tissue (the gland proper) through the mucosa, and opens on the free surface of the epithelium with a funnel- shaped ‘ mouth.’ The duct is limited by a membrana propria, containing oval flattened nuclei from place to place, being probably in all instances an endothelial membrane. It is a direct continuation of the subepithelial basement membrane. The duct possesses a large lumen, and this is in man lined with a single layer of beautiful columnar epithelial cells, each with an oval nucleus. The substance of these cells is longitudinally striated, containing an intracellular network of fibrils of a pre-eminently longitudinal direction. The nucleus contains also a reticulum. At the mouth the stratified epithelium of the surface passes, in an attenuated form, a short distance into the duct, but is soon replaced by the above columnar epithelium. In mammals the epithelium remains, however, stratified, being composed of two or three layers of flattened cells, until the deep part of the duct is reached, where it is composed of a single layer of poly- hedral cells. The oral cavity, the pharynx and oesophagus of batrachiae, are lined with ciliated columnar epithelium. The posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula are in the human embryo covered with laminated columnar epithelium, of which the most superficial cells are ciliated, but in the adult the epithelium is stratified pavement epithelium (Klein), as in other parts of the oral mucous membrane. The epithelium lining the ducts and indeed of the whole gland is developed as a continuation of the epithelium of the free surface ; this explains how sometimes also in the adult the epithelium lining the first part of the duct is ciliated (Klein). In the submucous tissue the duct branches in several branches, each of which having become slightly narrower, and its epithelium flattened, generally becomes again somewhat enlarged, as infundibulum, where it passes into the secreting part. This consists