343 EPITHELIUM OF THE CORNEA. that the division of the cell is always subsequent to the division of the nucleus, and that this invariably takes place after the indirect manner described on former occasions. There is at no time a cell to be found in the deeper or other layers that does not possess a nucleus. Amongst the epithelial cells of the middle strata are seen branched spaces in the interstitial cement-substance; the processes of these spaces lose themselves in the cement-substance. The spaces contain branched nucleated corpuscles which on the warm stage show distinct though slight amoeboid movement. They have been noticed in the epithelium of the cornea of the frog and mammals (Ribbert, Raehlmann), and correspond to the similar spaces and cells described on former occasions as present in every epithelium and as representing the intraepithelial rootlets of the lymphatic system. The lower surface of the epithelium is in most instances smooth and firmly fixed on the anterior elastic membrane, but occasionally, especially in the human cornea prepared with spirit, appears as if possessed of very minute teethlike spikes let into minute depressions of the elastica anterior (Henle, Langerhans). The epithelium of the cornea is directly continuous with that of the conjunctiva, but differs from it in many respects; the former is conspicuously more transparent, and its layers more numerous. In dark eyes of animals (sheep, dog) the epithelium of the conjunctiva contains pigment, and this ceases suddenly at the margin of the cornea, not being continuous into the epithelium of this latter. 2) The elastica anterior or Bowman’s membrane is a transparent homogeneous- looking membrane, distinct from the subjacent substantia propria and continuous with the basement membrane of the conjunctiva. It contains indications of bundles of minute fibrils, and is not continuous by bands of connective-tissue fibrils with the substantia pro- pria, nor does it contain cellular elements (corneal corpuscles) as maintained by Waldeyer. The elastica anterior is best developed in the human cornea, less so in that of most mammals. In rabbit it is also distinct, but not in dog, in the latter case it is reduced to a very delicate layer. Bowman’s membrane is perforated by a few thin channels passing through it in an oblique manner (Engelmann), they are channels containing nerve branches, the rami perforantes (see below). 3) The substantia propria is composed of lamellae cf bundles of fibrillar connective tissue. The bundles amongst themselves and the fibrils within a bundle are united by the usual semi-fluid albuminous interstitial cement-substance, which is easily dissolved by a ten per cent, solution of common salt (Schweigger-Seidel). The bundles of these lamellae run in a direction parallel to the surface of the cornea, but not