200 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. taste goblets also in some papillae of the soft palate. Isolated taste goblets occur, according to the same observer, also on the summit of some fungiform and circumvallate papillae of man. The parts of tongue that contain taste goblets, especially the circumvallate papillae and the papillae foliatae, are also distinguished by large saccular lymphatic capillaries embedded in the mucosa; each fold of the papillae foliatae contains in the centre a large lymphatic sinus, the wall of which is a single layer of endothelium, and which is connected with the superficial plexus of the lymphatics of the mucosa. The secreting glands of the root of the tongue are of two kinds, serous glands and mucous glands (v. Ebner). The latter differ in no way from the mucous glands of other parts of the oral cavity, as described on a previous page. Their ducts are occa- sionally (in man) lined with ciliated epithelium (v. Ebner). The mucous glands occur only at some distance from the parts that contain taste goblets. The glands present in the apex and marginal parts of the tongue (Blandin, Nuhn, Wardt) are mucous glands. The serous glands differ in position and structure from the mucous glands; they occur always in the parts that contain taste goblets (v. Ebner), and their ducts open with a funnel-shaped mouth in the grooves or pits lined by the taste goblets (papillae circumvallatae and papillae foliatae). The thick stratified pavement epithelium of the surface is continued into the mouth of the duct, but soon becomes thinner, being composed of a limited number of layers of polygonal cells ; in the deeper parts of the duct the epithelium is a single layer of columnar cells. The duct branches in several minute ducts, each of which is, just as in the case of the mucous glands, connected with a wavy and convoluted branched tube, alveolus ; the branches are all closely pressed together, and hence in any section through the gland we meet with tubes cut under different angles : transversely, obliquely, and longitudinally. The lumen of the alveoli is very small, in many cases not at all distinct, or only just indicated as a fine canal. Their epithelium is a single layer of more or less columnar cells, each with a spherical nucleus, similar to the cells lining the alveoli of true sali- vary glands. The cell substance looks like granular protoplasm, but is in reality a dense network, as described of the cells of the true salivary glands. The membrana propria of the alveoli is formed, as in other glands, by a network of flattened and branched nucleated cells (v. Ebner). It is very probable that the secretion of the serous glands is, like saliva, of a watery nature, and owing to the above-mentioned distribution of the glands and their ducts, it (the secretion) is poured out directly over the parts containing the taste goblets. This naturally greatly assists the rapid and efficient distribution of the substances, to be tasted, over the taste area, an effect that