412 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. to the regular longitudinal striation of the outer two-thirds of the cell substance and the relative deep position of its nucleus, these cells present a peculiarly delicate appearance not unlike that seen on the epithelium covering the papillae fungiformes of the frog’s tongue. The contrast between these cells and the superficial ciliated cells of the non-olfactory parts is very striking, especially in the places where the two, viz. olfactory and non- olfactory, are in contact : those of the olfactory parts being longer, more delicate, with- out cilia, and never goblet cells. 6) Between the above epithelial cells extend the olfactory cells of Max Schultze; these are delicate spindle-shaped cells, each with a spherical nucleus ; the cell substance surrounds, as a thin zone, the nucleus and sends both towards the free surface and the depth a thin filamentous process. The outer process is the thicker of the two and projects through holes of v. Brunn’s membrana limitans externa beyond the general surface as a single thick rod or as a bundle of fine cilia. In mammals and man the former, in lower vertebrates the latter is found to be the case. The inner process is very delicate and, as first pointed out by M. Schultze, is possessed of minute varicosities. The olfactory cells are very numerously interposed between the above cylindrical epithelial cells, their nuclei are not all in the same level, and in a vertical section appear therefore in several layers. But this entirely depends on the locality: the thicker the mucous membrane is, the thicker also the olfactory epithelium and the more numerous the olfactory cells. When seen from the surface—i.e. in the bird’s-eye view—the free ends of the olfactory cells appear as small dots between the larger circles indicating the free bases of the epithelial cells (Babuchin). c) The lowest layer of the olfactory epithelium is occupied by inverted conical epithelial cells, whose basis, resting on the mucosa, includes an oval nucleus slightly flattened in a direction parallel to the surface. These cells correspond to the couche basilaire of Sidky. Each of these cells sends a pointed branched or unbranched process vertically outwards, i.e. between the olfactory cells. These processes occasionally, in sections through hardened specimens, break off together with the olfactory and the epithelial cells; and there remain, then, fixed on the mucosa only the bases of the deepest epithelial cells now resembling flattened polyhedral cells. Of a transition of the epithelial cells into the olfactory cells, of a network of the inner processes of the former near the basement membrane, and of a connection of this network with the nerve fibrils, as maintained by Exner, I find no indication, and, like Cisoff and v. Brunn, must consider it as completely erroneous and due to bad prepara- tions. Babuchin, Cisoff, Paschutin, Sidky, Felisch, and others, have confirmed Max Schultze in his sharp distinction between the columnar epithelial cells and the olfactory