ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 4io their basis on the free surface; between these are pushed in spindle shaped or inverted conical cells; the latter are fixed with their basis on the mucosa. The basis of the superficial cells bears a bunch of fine cilia. In the immediate neighbourhood of those parts which are covered with stratified pavement epithelium the superficial conical cells are without cilia, but in the rest of the mucous membrane of the respiratory region they are ciliated. Many of the superficial cells present themselves also here as goblet cells. The epithelium rests on a basement membrane, which is delicate in most mammals, but acquires a very great thickness in some parts of the human organ (Heiberg) ; it then appears hyaline and permeated by the lacunae and canaliculi of the lymph-canalicular system, which, as pointed out by Heiberg, forms the connection between the lymph- canalicular system of the mucosa and that of the interstitial cement-substance of the epithelium (see Chapter XXII. p. 175). The mucous membrane contains in its superficial portion in some parts diffuse adenoid tissue, which in rare places assumes the shape of spherical lymph follicles. The thicker the mucous membrane the more likely it contains adenoid tissue, and the larger the glands in its deeper or submucous section. This is continuous with the perichon- drium or periosteum respectively. Where the mucous membrane acquires a great thickness, as in some parts of the septum and in the conchae, the glands attain to a large size and the alveoli and corresponding ducts are grouped in more or less distinct lobules. Where the mucous membrane is very thin, also the glands are short and small. The glands are of two kinds, either mucous or serous glands (Heidenhain). The former are identical in structure with those described in Chapter XXV., the latter with the true salivary glands. The serous glands are more numerous and much larger. Their alveoli are branched, possess each a small lumen, and are lined with a single layer of epithelial cells, which during secretion appear thick and almost polyhedral and transparent ; during rest they are distinctly columnar and more ‘ granular’-looking. The intra- cellular network is very conspicuous, especially in the state of secretion. In this latter state their spherical nucleus is pressed close to the limiting membrana propria, while during rest it is further away from it, but not quite in the centre of the cell. The intralobular ducts of the nasal serous glands are identical in structure with the intralobular ducts (the salivary tubes of Pfliiger) of the true salivary glands. In connection with the wall of the alveoli and of the duct can be traced fine nucleated fibres, single or branched ; they terminate apparently in connection with the epithelial cells both in the alveoli and in the duct; whether they are nerve fibres or not cannot be defi- nitely ascertained, although their long course, their nuclei, and the fact of their being