3 A 2 STRUCTURE OF HAIR-FOLLICLES. 3*7 the cells from which the inner membrane lining the canal is derived. Of a canal there is little to be seen in the duct at birth, whereas even at this period the coiled tube shows already a distinct though small lumen. At birth the distal part of the coiled tube possesses a well-marked muscle coat, and its epithelium consists of a layer of columnar cells. The Hair-follicle, the Hair, and the Sebaceous Gland. In each hair-follicle we distinguish the mouth, the neck, the main portion or the body, and finally the bulbous extremity. The mouth is a funnel-shaped opening on the free surface, and the neck lies in the level of the papillary layer of the corium. The direction of the hair-follicle, afid of course also of the hair occupying its axis, in the skin, is always an oblique one, the distal or bulbous extremity forming in most cases a straight line with the rest, but sometimes, as in the case of the hairs of the lips of the mouth, it is slightly curved. According to Stewart this is the normal state with the hairs of the scalp of the negro. The distal extremities of the well-developed hair-follicles extend into the septa of the adipose tissue ; they extend therefore much deeper into the subcutaneous tissue than the sweat-glands, whose coiled tube, as mentioned previously, reaches no farther than the superficial section of the subcutaneous tissue. The hair-follicles in the scalp are situated in groups of three or four, and the indi- vidual hair-follicles of these groups are of various thicknesses. The size and especially the length of the hair-follicles vary greatly in the different localities. Each hair-follicle consists of the vascular hair-sac, the papilla and the oiiter root sheath. The hair-sac is composed of an outer longitudinal and an inner transverse coat. It appears as if it were part of the surrounding tissue of the corium, with which it is inti- mately connected, but it must be regarded as altogether an organ independent of this latter. It is in reality a continuation of the papillary layer of the corium, which it re- sembles in being supplied with a network of capillaries and, as will be pointed out below, from which it developes in the foetus ; it is continuous with the connective tissue of the septa which penetrate between the lobules of the adipose tissue. The bundles of the outer coat are longitudinally arranged, while those of the inner are more oblique or transverse. In many places only the outer or longitudinal coat is distinct; in some, however, especially near the distal extremity or the bulb, a rudi- ment of transverse thin bundles can also be made out. On the inner surface of the transverse coat may be seen a continuous layer of relatively short and broad unstriped