CHAPTER II. EPITHELIUM. Epithelial cells are nucleated cells covering mucous membranes and skin, or lining secreting or kindred glands. The epithelial cells vary in shape and arrangement. They are columnar or pavement cells : the former again—conical, cylindrical or prismatical, spindle-shaped, pear-shaped or club-shaped ; the latter—tessular or cubical, polyhedral and more or less flattened, scaly or squamous. In this chapter will be considered the epithelium covering the skin and mucous membranes only; the epithelium of glands will be treated in connection with the latter in later chapters. As regards their arrangement, epithelial cells form either simple columnar or simple pavement epithelium, i.e. are arranged in a single layer, or they aggregate into stratified columnar or stratified pavement epithelium, formed of several layers of columnar cells (of various shapes), or of several layers of pavement cells (of various shapes). As regards the substance of the epithelial cells, it is invariably composed of what appears at first sight as ‘granular’ protoplasm, but what is in reality (when examined under certain favourable conditions) a minute network (Heitzmann, Eimer, Klein)—intra- cellular network. The meshes of this network contain a hyaline interfibrillar substance, the amount of which determines the .closeness of that network. The intracellular network is uniformly distributed throughout polyhedral cells—like that represented in woodcut 3—but it possesses a longitudinal arrangement in columnar cells like the one represented in woodcut 4; i.e. the greater number of fibrils run parallel with the long axis. In all instances, how- ever, there are small dots or ‘ granules ’ seen in the network, chiefly in the nodes, which are fibrils viewed in optical section, hence the ‘ granular ’ appearance is the more distinct the closer the network, i.e. the more numerous the fibrils. Some epithelial cells possess a fine limiting membrane, others are without it; thus, for instance, most columnar epithelial cells have a membrane, so also the squamous epithelial cells of the superficial layers of stratified epithelium, whereas the polyhedral cells of the deeper strata of the latter are without it. But wherever it is present, it is merely a denser part of the cell-substance, probably in consequence of a process of ‘ hardening,’ due to evaporation. c 2