ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 150 These end-bulbs represent simple or compound elliptical or cylindrical corpuscles, situated in the corium and mucosa, and possessed of a capsule of nucleated mem- branes. This capsule is either simple or composed of several membranes, but it is always a continuation of the tissue in which the nerve fibre is embedded. Generally one, occasionally two, medullated nerve fibres enter the corpuscle, and at the point of entrance lose their medullary sheath. According to Key and Retzius the axis cylinder becomes convoluted in a more or less complicated manner, and finally terminates in several small branches, each possessed of a spherical or oval granular end-swelling. The convolutions of the branches of the axis cylinder represent the bulk of the end-bulb. There are always a few nuclei present amongst these convolutions. According to Izquierdo the genital corpuscles of thejclitoris of rabbit are numerous, broad and simple, while those of the vaginal mucous membrane of the same animal are few, narrow and divided. The bulk of the corpuscle is not made up of convolutions of the axis cylinder, but either of granular nucleated cells or a fibrous matrix. The latter is derived from the former, and accordingly we find corpuscles the matrix of which is in different intermediary stages. The nerve fibre does not end in a swelling, but having become thinner, terminates in a pointed manner. D. The end organs of the beak and tongue of birds. These are either of large size, situated in the depth, and formed on the plan of Pacinian corpuscles, slightly modified; they are then called Herbst’s corpuscles; or they are small spherical or oval budlike swellings, situated more superficially in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the epithelium ; they have been first seen by Grandry, but fully investigated by Merkel, and are therefore appropriately called Merkel’s end-bulbs. They appear as lateral enlargements at the end of a medullated nerve fibre. The enlargement is pos- sessed of a nucleated and laminated capsule. The contents of the capsule, i.e. the matrix of the end-bulb, consist of a variable number (2-5) of transparent large cells, slightly flattened, each with a nucleus, and arranged in a vertical row. The medullated nerve fibre loses its medullary sheath when entering the end-bulb. Those who have specially investigated the mode of the termination of the axis cylinder differ on this point: while some (Merkel, Henle) regard the above transparent cells— Merkel’s ‘ tuch-cells ’—as the true terminal organs of the axis cylinder, others (Key and Retzius, Ranvier, Hesse, Izquierdo) consider the disc, or discs, situated between the broad surfaces of two adjacent cells (disc tactil, Ranvier ; Tastplatte, Hesse) as the real termination. E. According to Merkel, there exist similar end organs, viz. ‘tuch-cells,’ also in the skin of man and other mammals (nose of pig, especially the small tuch hairs of the nose