6o ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. from place to place, in their centre a thinner or thicker, longer or shorter, remnant of unabsorbed calcified cartilage. The surfaces of the now osseous trabeculae are covered with osteoblasts, among which multinuclear giant cells are still to be met with. The different layers described in the preceding are not sharply defined from, but gradually merge into one another. Their thickness and distinction vary in different bones; it is best marked in long bones, where the articular cartilage joins the spongy bone of the epiphysis, and at the point of contact of the intermediary cartilage and the spongy bone of the extremity of the diaphysis. In the latter instance the character of the layers is one of a distinctly longitudinal design, owing to the peculiar nature of the intermediary cartilage. This cartilage contains longitudinal rows of cartilage cells. The individual cells are more or less distinctly flattened in a transverse direction. Near the distal end, that is the end further away from the diaphysis, the cartilage cells are more flattened and more closely placed within the same row than at the proximal end ; they are at the same time conical, and so placed within the row that with their thinner part—the wedge of the cone—they are, as it were, pushed over one another (Aeby). This appearance is due to each cell dividing in a diagonal. Approaching the proximal end, the cartilage cells become larger in a vertical diameter, and the individual rows become further apart from each other : the result is that the amount of hyaline ground-substance separating the individual cells within a row is reduced, while that between the rows increases. The layers which now follow up to the spongy bone are the same as those described above, but possess, for obvious reasons, a pre-eminently longitudinal design, as explained above. To repeat, they are : first, the transparent layer or the layer of large cartilage lacunae, then the zone of calcified cartilage, further the layer containing already vascular marrow in the cavities, and osteoblasts on the surface of the calcified cartilage trabeculae, then the layer in which, in addition, the calcified trabeculae become ensheathed with laminae of osseous tissue, and finally true spongy bone, the calcified cartilage having altogether disappeared (by absorption). The description given here of the nature of the junction of hyaline cartilage and spongy bone indicates at the same time the manner in which the development of bone in cartilage, and the growth in length of the spongy bone of the diaphysis, i.e. its encroach- ment on the intermediary cartilage, take place ; it is only necessary to remember that it is the vascular marrow, with its osteoblasts, which gradually grows into the cartilage, and at the line of contact produces in it the definite changes which receive their expression in the above layers. All bones, except the tegmental bones of the cranium, and the greater part of the