258 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. the substance of the epithelial cells assuming a homogeneous aspect. In many instances the substance of the epithelial cells is in this section, on the contrary, of a reticular nature, the meshes being of a relatively large size. As regards the first part of the spiral tubules, a distinction may be also noticed between tubes possessing a large lumen lined with comparatively transparent, short polyhedral epithelial cells, and tubes whose lumen is much smaller, the epithelium more opaque, and its cells more columnar. The irregularity and inequality in the epithelial cells lining this tube are still more conspicuous than in the preceding section, especially in the first part of the former. These irregularities lead to a distinction into thin columnar cells with concave sides, and broader spheroidal cells with convex sides and convex free surface, and hence pos- sessing a fungoid shape, ‘ fungoid cells ’ of Schachowa. 5 and 6. The descending limb of Henle’s loop and the loop itself are exceedingly thin tubes, whose membrana propria is lined with a layer of very flat transparent cell plates, each possessed of an oval flattened nucleus. These tubes resemble in size and transparency capillary blood-vessels, but differ from them by the greater number of their nuclei and by the presence of a membrana propria outside the layer of cell plates. But this distinction into a membrana propria and lining cell plates is not always easily made. 7. As mentioned above, just where the ascending limb of Henle’s loop enters the boundary layer it becomes suddenly enlarged, but reaches its greatest breadth a little distance from its entrance into this layer. The epithelial lining is again composed of polyhedral cells with very distinct vertical rods, when viewed in profile ; each cell is pos- sessed of a spherical nucleus situated in the innermost part of the cell, i.e. next the lumen. This latter is very conspicuous. The outline of the tube is not straight, and its breadth varies slightly from place to place. 8. About midway in the boundary layer the tube becomes again narrower and fol- lows a more or less spiral course, hence it may be called the spiral portion of the ascend- ing limb. Its outline is irregular, and it differs from the preceding by being narrower, and its lumen very small, just perceptible as a narrow canal. The epithelial cells lining it are short polyhedral, and show in the profile view very coarse thick rods, much more distinct than in any of the previous sections. Many cells appear possessed of short processes and more or less distinctly imbricated, a fact already known to Steu- dener. Each cell possesses a spherical or irregular or flattened nucleus situated near the lumen. In the human kidney the substance of the epithelial cells of this section includes occasionally a considerable amount of brownish pigment granules (Klein).