ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 270 These cells are polyhedral, each with a spherical nucleus situated in the centre (cat and dog), or excentrically (guinea pig, boar). The cell substance appears ‘granular,’ but is in reality an exceedingly beautiful and dense network. In some instances (guinea pig) there are brownish-yellowish pigment granules contained in the cell substance. The nucleus includes within a distinct membrane a pale, honey-combed reticulum, containing occasionally one, seldom more, thickenings, nucleoli. The intranuclear and intracellular reticulum form a direct continuity. As mentioned above, the groups of intertubular epithelial cells are situated between the lamellae. Their number varies in different animals. They are most abundant in the dog, cat, and especially boar, where they form a predominant portion of the whole testis (Leydig). In this last instance the masses of these intertubular epithelial cells are sup- plied with their special system of blood-vessels. The parenchyma consists of the seminal tubes, arranged in the well-known lobules between the above connective-tissue septa. The tubes are relatively large and very wavy and much convoluted ; they possess a few lateral branches, by which they become connected into a network ; they form terminal loops ; in the peripheral portion of the testis the tubules are possessed of minute lateral caecal branchlets (Mihalkovics). These branchlets are especially well shown in the young state (v. la Valette St. George). Each seminal tubule in the adult testis is limited by a membrana propria, which appears as a hyaline elastic membrane, and containing oval, flattened nuclei at regular intervals, is probably an endothelial membrane. It is supported on its outside by the lamellae of the intertubular tissue. Inside this membrana propria are several layers of epithelial cells, the seminal cells. Of these may be distinguished the outer, and the inner layer of cells. The former are situated next to the membrana propria. They are more or less polyhedral in shape, of about the same size, and possess faint outlines. They correspond to the germ-cells of Sertoli; their substance is transparent, and appears uniformly and finely granular, which appearance is due to the presence of a delicate reticulum. Each of these cells possesses a nucleus, and in this respect, and in this respect only, the cells are of two very distinct types (Klein) : (a) such as contain an oval, transparent nucleus, limited by a definite membrane, and containing a more or less well-developed, honey-combed reticulum, with generally one, and occasionally two, or even three, irregularly shaped thickenings, or nucleoli; (h) the cells of the second type include each a spherical nucleus; this is slightly smaller than that of the former cells, it has no definite limiting membrane, and contains in a transparent matrix a beautiful convolution of relatively thick and short filaments, or rods, twisted in many directions,