436 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. with small uniform meshes. The framework of the medulla is a more or less uniform dense plexus, or rather honeycomb of septa and trabeculae, which always contain a number of unstriped muscle cells. The connective tissue supporting the large venous branches in the centre of the suprarenal body always contains numerous bundles of unstriped muscle cells running longitudinally, i.e. parallel, with the veins. In the human organ these bundles are very conspicuous by their number and size ; they are continued into the medulla. As regards the parenchyma, the following is to be noticed : In each of the meshes of the framework of the outer zone of the cortex lies a spherical, oval, or elongated mass ; the latter is generally much convoluted, and extending more or less parallel to the surface. Each of these masses is composed of granular-looking, small, polyhedral, or larger elon- gated columnar or conical epithelial cells, each with a spherical or slightly oval nucleus. These masses are of various sizes, and are directly continuous with the cell- streaks of the next following zona fasciculata. But in this latter zone the cells are as a rule more opaque, and their nucleus is smaller and stains readier in dyes. In the horse and dog the cell-masses of the outer zone are band- or trough- shaped, and more or less looplike. They are composed of beautiful slender columnar cells, arranged transversely (Kblliker, Eberth). In the suprarenal body of the human foetus, and in that of the adult guinea-pig, I have in isolated cases seen a homogeneous gelatinous substance contained in a con- tinuous space within one or the other of the cell groups, so that these latter looked then like tubes or alveoli lined with epithelium, their lumen being filled with that homo- geneous gelatinous secretion. Possibly Grandry’s tubes and vesicles are to be explained in this way. The middle zone or zona fasciculata contains in each of the elongated spaces of the framework a cylindrical streak of polyhedral transparent cells, each with a relatively large spherical transparent nucleus. The streaks are anastomosing with one another. This is especially conspicuous as we pass into the inner zone. The cell substance contains in most instances smaller and larger oil globules. Between the cells exists an anastomosing system of narrower and broader clefts, channels, and lacunce, which belong to the lymphatic system (see below). The appearance of these spaces between the polyhedral cells is very similar to that presented by the bile capillaries between the liver cells. The inner zone or zona reticularis is directly continuous with the previous one, and is composed of smaller or larger groups of polyhedral cells, whose outlines are generally more or less rounded off. These groups appear as single cell-rows or as cylindrical cell-masses anastomosing into a plexus, or they appear as small spherical or oval cell-clusters.