London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS—continued. clearness, and of artistic beauty. The two parts of the Atlas now before us give sure promise of a work on Histology such as no other country yet possesses, and which may be considered absolutely necessary to every student of the inanimate structure of the tissues.’ LANCET, April 26, 1879. ‘ We are much pleased with these plates. They give very faithful delineations of the objects described in the text, and they are not overcharged. They should be on the table of every practitioner who desires to make himself familiar with the progress of Histology.’ DUBLIN JOURNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, June, 1879. 1 In the parts before us we have a first instalment of a work which promises, as far as illustration goes, to be the most magnificent systematic .work on animal Histology which exists in any language.’ ‘ Both as regards the faithfulness with which the objects are delineated, and the artistic beauty of the execution, we can speak of them only in terms of. the highest praise The work is one of great originality.’ MEDICAL PRESS, August 13, 1879. ‘ Judging from the first three numbers, this work promises to be of the greatest interest and value. Its purpose is to give a representation and a description of the tissues of man and other vertebrates as they are understood in the present day ; and if the later numbers sustain the high standard of those already published, this purpose will be most satisfactorily accom- plished. As regards the illustrations, Mr. Noble Smith must be congratulated on his great skill in delineation; the plates appear both graphic and truthful The work appears to be one which is likely to occupy a very important place amongst our English text-books, and is one which is highly creditable to those concerned in its “ production.” ’ BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, Oct. 4, 1879. ‘ This admirably executed Atlas is rapidly progressing to a conclusion, .... it has throughout maintained the high promise with which it started, and fulfils all that could be expected from the joint work of our best histologist and the most accomplished of British medical draughts- men. The illustrations of the last two parts, especially devoted to the display and brief description of the intimate struc- ture of the nervous centres and nerve ganglia; are admirable for the perfection and beauty of the sections and the choice of specimens, as they are for the delicate skill and intimate knowledge of the draughtsman. The text is only too short, for it is full of accurate, recent, and lucid information. It is long since any work of more entirely satisfactory conception and execution has issued from the English medical press. This is very high praise ; but the rare merits of this standard pro- duction deserve no less.’ EDINBURGH MEDICAL JOURNAL. ‘ Of the greatest value the illustrations betoken high artistic skill, as well as the accuracy of perception neces- sary for the delineation of objects his- tologically,’ &c