ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 344 only groups of bundles of adjacent lamellae, but also those belonging to the same lamella, cross under right angles. Neighbouring lamellae anastomose with one another, owing to bundles passing between them; but in this respect there exist great differences in the different sections of the cornea, in the anterior section such bundles are much more numerous than in the posterior. Near the elastica anterior some of these bundles pass through several lamellae in an oblique manner and represent the fibrae arcuatae. There are few isolated delicate elastic fibrils to be met with between the lamellae (Henle), they are only seen from place to place. The interstitial cement-substance is collected as a distinct layer between each two adjacent lamellae. In each layer of this interlamellar substance lies one layer of lacunae and their anastomosing canaliculi, first discovered by v. Recklinghausen and named by him the lymph-canalicular system. They do not possess any limiting mem- brane, although such an one has been ascribed to them by Leber, Lavdowsky, and others. Their arrangement, shape, and differences in different animals have been fully considered in Chapters IV. and XXII. In most instances the lacunae are flat, more or less oblong, and possessed of numerous canals of various thicknesses, most of them being branched and anastomosing with those of neighbouring lacunae. In the cat they are in groups (Strieker), so that two or three or more lacunae are in contact with one another and joined into larger cavities. A similar grouping of lacunae is generally found in the anterior sections of the young cornea. The lacunae of the anterior sections are generally larger and less branched than in the deeper parts of the cornea (His). Each lacuna contains the nucleated plate of a cell, the corneal corpuscle. Each of these is possessed of processes extending into the above canaliculi, and by them the corneal corpuscles anastomose in a network. The lacunae and canaliculi are not completely filled out with the branched corneal corpuscles, and there is enough room left for the circulation of plasma irrigating the tissue, and for the passage of migratory cells, and in many places also for the nerve fibrils (Recklinghausen, Strieker, Rollett, and others). Most lacunae and the corpuscles are flat in a direction parallel to the surface of the cornea, but in every preparation there are some found whose narrow side is looking towards the surface of the cornea. The lacunae or corneal corpuscles respectively of neighbouring layers anastomose with one another (Rollett). Each corneal corpuscle consists of a hyaline ground-plate, in which is embedded an oval nucleus. Around this nucleus is a ‘ granular ’-looking protoplasm, which is in reality