i7 COLUMNAR EPITHELIAL CELLS. ever, contained in the substance of the epithelial cells themselves, but between these latter—i.e. below or above those represented in the figure. The columnar epithelial cells show on their free border a fine striation. These striae, as shown in woodcut 5, are prolongations of the fibrils of the cell-substance. Usually these striae are represented as if contained in a broad bright cuticular substance covering the free surface of this epithelium; but, as is seen in figs. IX. and X., these striae or fibrils may be present without such bright cuticle, so that this latter cannot be actually covering the epithelial cells, but is probably due to a prolongation of the intercellular cement- substance, and thus in a profile view it appears as if covering the free surface of the cell itself, although in reality it is above or below it. Fig. XI. Fresh epithelial cells of mouth of frog. Three are ciliated, one is without cilia; the two cells to the left appear as if spheroidal in shape, but in reality they are columnar, just like the third ciliated cell in this figure, only the former are viewed obliquely. Fig. XIII. Scaly epithelial cells contained in saliva of mouth of man. They are derived from the superficial layers of the stratified epithelium of the mucous membrane of the mouth. Four cells are seen from the broad, one from the narrow surface ; one spherical granular cell, a so-called salivary corpuscle with a nucleus in it. These salivary corpuscles, probably derived from amoeboid corpuscles that have emigrated from the mucous membrane, appear somewhat swollen up, owing to the influence of the watery saliva; their granules are in a rapid oscillation (Briicke), just as in the colourless blood- corpuscles treated with water. Figure XIV. Vertical section through the epithelium covering the anterior surface of the cornea. The epithelium is stratified pavement epithelium, of a similar arrange- ment as the rete Malpighii of the epidermis, or as the epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the mouth, of the lower part of pharynx and of the oesophagus of mammals, the vagina, the fossa navicularis of the male urethra, part of the male and female urethra. The epithelium of these different organs varies in the number of layers and in the presence of larger or smaller papillae of the mucous membrane. According to the length of these the epithelium projects against the mucous membrane as longer or shorter interpapillary processes. The membrane of the cornea not possessing any papillae is therefore covered by an epithelium with smooth under-surface. The very different shapes presented by the columnar cells of the deepest layer of stratified pavement epithelium suggest that by horizontal division they produce the polyhedral cells above them, a proposition that can be proved by careful examination of isolated cells. The cells of the lowest stratum elongate, and by so doing have to adapt themselves to the space available to them. Thus some are club-shaped, pear- D