SHEATHS OF NERVE ROOTS. 93 The nerve roots receive a prolongation from both the arachnoidea and dura mater as arachnoideal and dural sheath respectively (Axel Key and Retzius). And, in accord- ance with this, the lymph-spaces of the peripheral nerves (spinal as well as cerebral), and their ganglia, have been injected from the subdural and subarachnoidal spaces respectively (Axel Key and Retzius). Neither the subdural nor the subarachnoidal space is one open and free cavity, there being numerous connective-tissue trabeculae passing between the dura mater and arachnoidea as well as between the latter and the pia mater (subarachnoidal tissue), as mentioned above. The cord itself contains a framework, and embedded in it the white and grey matter. A) The framework consists of the following parts :— 1) A relatively large process of fibrous-connective tissue passes from the intima piae into the anterior fissure up to the anterior commissure, where it loses itself amongst the connective tissue of the white substance. Similar pial prolongations pass, at different points of the circumference, into the minute septa stretching between sections of the white matter, especially of the lateral and anterior tracts. All these prolongations of the intima piae carry blood-vessels into the cord. 2) The chief part of the framework is a semifluid substance (neuroglia-matrix), which under certain reagents (chromates) presents a granular aspect (Gerlach), but in the fresh state and with other reagents is quite homogeneous (Walther). This substance fills all the interstices between the nervous elements of the cord. In this homogeneous matrix are embedded very numerous minute fibrils, neuroglia fibrils, which anastomose with one another in a network. These fibrils are in chemical respects similar to elastic fibrils (Gerlach), although they are not so resistent against acids and alkalies. In the white matter the neuroglia fibrils have pre-eminently a longitudinal direction, except in the septulis, where they form networks in a transverse direction ; in the grey matter they extend uniformly in all directions. In connection with the network of neuroglia fibrils we find flattened branched nucleated connective-tissue corpuscles ; the processes of these lose themselves amongst the former. Neuroglia-matrix, neuroglia fibrils and branched cells form the ‘ Neuroglia.’ These three substances have a definite relation to one another: the greater the amount of one, the greater is also that of the other two.