ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 416 As regards the olfactory epithelium of the median wall, its great thickness is very conspicuous. The superficial cells are thin conical epithelial cells, each with a narrow indistinct nucleus. Between these are pushed in the spindle-shaped olfactory cells ; each of these possesses a spherical or slightly compressed nucleus several times larger than that of the conical epithelial cells. Around the nucleus is a relatively large amount of protoplasm drawn out into an outer broader and an inner long and fine process, just as is the case with the olfactory cells previously described. The number of these spindle-shaped cells is very great and they are thus the cause of the great thickness of the epithelium as a whole. A deep layer of inverted conical epithelial cells appears wanting. There is a delicate cuticle on the free surface. A thin mucosa contains numerous minute branches of the olfactory nerve. There are no glands in this part of the wall. The lateral wall is lined, as mentioned above, with columnar epithelium similar to that of the non-olfactory places; it consists of a superficial layer of columnar or conical cells, each with a bunch of fine short cilia; then follow numerous spindle-shaped cells, each with an elliptical nucleus; and finally pushed in between them are the deep inverted conical cells. I cannot understand Loewe’s assertion that the superficial cells of the lateral wall possess no cilia. Among the superficial conical cells are found the ordinary goblet cells. The subepithelial mucosa contains a plexus of large veins with trabeculae of unstriped muscle tissue between, i.e. a cavernous tissue. Outside this is a more or less continuous layer of serous glands. The thickness of this layer is greatest in the lower part of the lateral wall. The ducts open into the lower sulcus of the cavity, and in some instances the ciliated epithelium of the surface is continued into the duct. PLATE XLV. Fig. I. From a longitudinal section through the cochlea of the guinea-pig ; one half of the section being represented only. The cochlea had been prepared with osmic acid and then stained with logwood. Magnifying power about 50. 1. Scala vestibuli. 2. Scala tympani. 3. Ductus cochlearis. 4. Inner or lower vestibular sulcus. 5. Sulcus spiralis externus. 6. Upper vestibular sulcus.