ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. I IO each glomerulus consists in man of a convolution of an olfactory nerve fibre, containing besides, numerous small nucleated Deiters’ cells. y) Clarke’s stratum gelatinosum, containing first small loose, then larger, denser multipolar ganglion cells of a spindle or pyramidal shape. Their processes lose them- selves in the fine nerve network forming the ground-substance for this layer. According to Golgi, the nerve fibres of the glomeruli undergo repeated division, and Huguenin saw in the dog processes of the ganglion cells of the third layer in con- nection with nerve fibres coming from the glomeruli. 8) This layer is very thick and contains, in a network of fibrils, numerous smaller and larger groups of nuclei, similar in structure to the nuclear layer of the cerebellum (see below). II) In the large cerebral ganglia the cells are multipolar, and, as in the other regions, connected by their processes with the nerve network, which forms also here the matrix of the nervous part of the grey matter. In the thalamus opticus the ganglion cells are pre-eminently spindle-shaped (Meynert). In the corpus striatum the cells contain a large amount of pigment. III) The grey matter of this category represents chiefly the substance in which most of the cerebral nerves find their origin. The ganglion cells are multipolar and arranged in groups as the so-called ‘ nuclei ’ of the respective nerves ; their processes, ex- cept the axis-cylinder process, terminate in the nerve network of the ground-substance. The cells of the different ‘ nuclei ’ differ in size, aspect and number of processes. The cells of some regions, as some parts of the fossa rhomboidalis, or the substantia nigra Soemmeringi (between basis and tegmentum of the pedunculus cerebri), are filled with a dark brown pigment. The ganglion cells belonging to the * nucleus ’ of the optic nerve are multipolar and of different sizes. Meynert describes, in the anterior ganglion of the corpus quadri- geminum, large spindle-shaped cells belonging to a group of nerve fibres which join this ganglion with the ‘ nucleus ’ of the oculomotor and trochlear nerve. The ganglion cells of these two nerves are situated underneath the aqueductus Sylvii; they are large multipolar spindle-shaped cells, each with an axis-cylinder process. I n the ‘ nuclei ’ of the fifth are specially conspicuous the large multipolar ganglion cells, containing pigment ; they belong to its motor root situated in the anterior portion of the fossa rhomboidalis. The sensory nuclei contain small multipolar cells. Of a similar appearance are the ganglion cells representing the nucleus of the nervus abducens, situated laterally in the anterior part of the fossa rhomboidalis.