i6o ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The mucous membrane of the small bronchi contain isolated lymph-follicles, and also diffuse masses of adenoid tissue. The spleen contains cylindrical masses of adenoid tissue ensheathing the arterial branches ; these cord-like masses are possessed of oval or spherical enlargements, either uniform or one-sided. The Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, generally incorrectly represented as spherical or oval bodies placed laterally on an arterial branch, are, in the majority of instances, transverse sections through such a cord-like mass of adenoid tissue ensheathing an artery; this vessel is generally situated excentrically, being sur- rounded by a greater amount of the adenoid tissue on one side than on the other. The serous membranes (omentum, pleura mediastini) contain smaller or larger nodular, patch-like, or cord-like masses of adenoid tissue, covered on one or both surfaces with germinating endothelium, as. has been mentioned in Chapter III. (p. 21). These masses have either a well-defined outline, or they are more or less diffuse ; their growth and relation to fat-tissue has been referred to in Chapter VI. (pp. 42 and 43). Smaller or larger diffuse masses of adenoid tissue occur occasionally in the mucous membrane of the false vocal cords and trachea, in the mucosa of the soft palate and uvula, in the oesophagus, in the tissue in which the tubes of the epididymis are embedded, and in the interlobular tissue of the pancreas. The adenoid tissue contains in its adult state a special system of blood-vessels. This is especially the case in the follicles, both single and in groups; each follicle contains an afferent arterial branch, one or more venous branches, and an intermediary network of capillaries. In the follicles of the root of the tongue, in those constituting the tonsils, in those of the upper part of the pharynx, in the solitary follicles of the small and large intestine, and in those of the Peyer’s patches, the veins form a plexus around the follicles, while the capillaries are arranged more or less radiating towards the centre of each follicle. The number of capillaries in a follicle is generally consider- able, but there are differences in this respect in different organs : thus, the follicles of the intestine are much richer in capillary vessels than the follicles of the tonsils, or the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen. The follicles of the root of the tongue, tonsils, pharynx, intestine, bronchi, &c., are surrounded, over a larger or smaller portion of their circumference, by a lymph-sinus (His, Frey, and others), which is in open connection with a lymphatic vessel of the surrounding tissue. Both the visceral surface, i.e. that belonging to the follicle, as well as the parietal surface, i.e. that separating the sinus from the surrounding connective tissue, is covered with a layer of endothelial plates with more or less sinuous outlines.