ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 198 latter, the direction of the epithelial cells of the different layers over the papillae themselves is nearly at right angles with that of the parts between. The papillae filiformes are single or compound, in the latter instance two, three, or more papillae project from a common large papilla; but each papilla, whether single or compound, includes, as a rule, minute papillary projections of the mucosa, forming the matrix of the papilla, into the epithelium covering it, similar to what is the case in other parts of the mucous membrane of the oral cavity. The epithelial cells of the apex of the papillae are much flattened, and in the adult we meet with small groups of them forming filamentous horny prolongations. In the papillae filiformes of mammals the superficial strata of the epithelium are often composed of horny scales closely packed together. The papillae fungiformes are covered with beautiful stratified pavement epithelium, into which project larger or smaller secondary papillae. The mucosa forming the matrix of the papillae is of the same connective-tissue nature as that of other regions of the oral cavity, except in the fungiform papillae, especially in the large ones forming the centre of a circumvallate papilla, it contains numerous nerve branches composed of medullated nerve fibres. The distribution of blood-vessels and lymphatics does not differ from that of other parts, except that the papillae have each a single or multiple loop of capillaries, according as they are single or compound. In the fungiform papillae the blood capillaries form a very beautiful network. In the root of the tongue the mucous membrane is loose and contains numerous secreting glands, lymphatic follicles, and diffuse adenoid tissue. The former, viz. secreting glands, are buried between bundles of striped muscle fibres, their ducts pass through the mucosa and open generally in the grooves, pits or crypts between or in the folds or knoblike prominences, with which the surface is beset; the lymphatic follicles are closely aggregated in the mucosa and extend into the epithelium of the surface as diffuse adenoid tissue. Their relation to the mucosa and the epithelium is the same as that described of the tonsils in a former chapter, viz. the folds or larger and smaller knoblike papillae and crypts of the mucous membrane are chiefly caused by the presence in their wall of the above lymph-follicles and diffuse adenoid tissue (Kolliker, Huxley). As in the tonsils, so also at the root of the tongue, the adenoid tissue of the mucosa gradually encroaches on the epithelium, this latter becoming filled with lymph-corpuscles and reticulum. The lymph-corpuscles may be traced in many places up to the free surface. There is little doubt that the so-called salivary or mucous corpuscles, found in the mucus and saliva taken from the cavity of the mouth, are lymph-corpuscles that have originally belonged to the adenoid tissue