ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. o *> o OJ2 traced for longer or shorter distances, and the duct appears in places in half or more of its circumference invaginated in these lymphatics. d) The hair-sac contains lymph channels, which are in communication with the surrounding lymphatics. They form sinuses round the outer root-sheath, and pene- trate into the interstitial cement-substance between its (viz. the outer root-sheath’s) epithelial cells; this is a relation similar to that mentioned above in connection with the stratum Malpighii. A further connection exists between the interstitial sub- stance of the outer root-sheath and a space separating this latter from the inner root- sheath, and a similar one between this latter and the hair itself. e) The alveoli of the sebaceous glands are surrounded for a larger or smaller part of their circumference by lymphatic spaces and sinuses, connected both with lymphatic vessels and with the interfascicular lymph-spaces of the surrounding connective tissue. Elongated lymph-clefts are also found between the parts of the bundles of the arrector pili, similar to those observed in other unstriped muscular tissue. The collecting lymphatics of large or small cutaneous districts possess besides the lining endothelium an elastic intima, a circular muscular media, and a thin adventitia. In this latter are situated blood-vessels forming for the lymphatic a special system, com- posed of an artery, vein, and a network of capillaries (Biesiadecki). Dogiel quite recently demonstrated a similar network of blood capillaries on the large lymphatics underneath the skin of the ear-lobe and the hind extremity of the rat, and in the mesentery of the cat and dog. The Nerves. The nerve branches of the subcutaneous tissue contain chiefly non-medullated and only a few medullated nerve fibres. But the number of medullated nerves is greater in those localities where there are tactile corpuscles (hand, foot, glans penis). In the superficial part of the corium they break up into a dense plexus—which may appropriately be called the stroma plexus—of fine non-medullated nerve fibres, extending horizontally, and in close neighbourhood of the superficial network of the blood-vessels ; each of the nerve fibres is still possessed of its hyaline sheath of Schwann lined with nerve corpuscles. These fibres give off immediately underneath the stratum Malpighii minute varicose elementary fibrils, forming a network, the subepithelial network. From it fibrils ascend into the stratum Malpighii (Langerhans, Padkopaeff, Eberth, Eimer, Mojsisovics, Palladino, and others) both above the summit of the papillae and into the interpapillary processes ; here they ascend vertically towards the stratum lucidum. Their course is more or less wavy but they remain always between the epithelial cells, and when