427 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE SPLEEN. do with the Malpighian corpuscles (Basler, Fenenko, Kyber). They anastomose with one another (Basler, Kyber). In man, ape, and pig I find that they do not possess an adenoid sheath but a sheath of a special kind in which more or less concentrically arranged endotheloid plates form a conspicuous portion ; between these are a few lymph- cells. Billroth, Schweigger-Seidel, W. Muller, Fenenko, Kyber, and others, have seen these vessels and considered them as capillaries; their sheath has been called by Schweigger-Seidel the ‘ capillary sheath ’; but I do not agree with these observers as regards the nature of these vessels, since I think they are not simple capillaries but minute arteries. All capillary blood-vessels belong to the Malpighian corpuscles, and at the margin of these they open into the spaces of the honeycombed matrix of the pulp. These lead into the venous sinuses above described (cavernous veins of Billroth), and these again into the large venous trunks embedded in the trabeculae. The venous sinuses form beautiful plexuses (Billroth, Frey, Schweigger-Seidel, Kolliker, and others); in the pulp of man and ape the individual sinuses are of an elongated tubular nature, and the matrix between them appears therefore more distinctly of the nature of tracts, the intervascular tracts of Billroth. In the spleen of man and ape there is always an appreciable amount of pulp tissue without venous sinuses to be met with in the immediate circumference of many Malpighian corpuscles. According to Billroth, Grohe, Sasse, Kolliker, and, more recently, Kyber, the intervascular tracts of the pulp tissue contain capillary blood-vessels, and these form the connection between the arterial system of the Malpighian corpuscles and the venous sinuses (see above); but according to W. Muller, Frey, and many others, with whom on this point I completely agree, the pulp tissue between the venous sinuses does not contain any capillaries, and the spaces of the honeycombed matrix are the inter-commu- nicating spaces between the arterial branches including the capillaries of the Mal- pighian corpuscles, and the venous radicles or sinuses. The Malpighian corpuscles, are identical with the lymph-gland structures of other regions, e g., in the alimentary and respiratory organs. But the pulp is considered by some as the tissue in which coloured blood-corpuscles are destroyed, hence the presence of the clumps of the blood pigment; in the very slow passage of the blood through the honeycomb of the pulp matrix the blood corpuscles can be readily taken up by the cell- plates and lymphoid cells, in which by and bye they become broken up. The pulp is at the same time most probably also the birthplace of colourless or lymphoid cells, as mentioned above. According to the more recent researches of Bizzozero and Salvioli it appears that coloured blood corpuscles are also newly formed in the spleen pulp.