i38 atlas of histology. Eberth ; serous membranes, Klein), or a network of fibres and membranes (lymphatic glands, His). Capillaries vary in size in different localities and in different animals. Thus the capillaries of the brain and of the lung in man and mammals are smaller than those of the liver, and much more conspicuously so than those of the bone-marrow. The lumen of capillary blood-vessels varies according to whether this latter is more or less distended with fluids (blood or injection matter), or whether it is contracted or collapsed. In young capillaries, both of normal and pathological tissues, the wall is possessed of solid threadlike shorter or longer nucleated protoplasmic processes (see below), and is capable of active contraction (Strieker). In consequence of this, the lumen may become altogether (temporarily) closed, and the vessel contracted into a thin apparently solid thread (Strieker). The wall of all capillary vessels in the adult state forms a direct connection with the processes of the connective-tissue corpuscles of the surrounding tissue (Klein, Altmann) ; the significance of this relation will be considered in connection with the lymphatic vessels. Capillary blood-vessels are connected into a network, the distribution and arrange- ment of which varies in different organs, and will be specially described with the latter. 2. Arteries. Following a capillary vessel towards the arterial system, the following appearances, besides the increase in breadth, indicate its having changed into an arterial branch : (a) the presence of a permanent outer sheath, or adventitia, in the shape of a single layer of flattened nucleated cells, either branched and forming a network (see above), or un- branched and forming a continuous endothelial membrane. (6) The appearance of short unstriped muscle cells as a special layer, media, transversely on the long axis of the vessel; these muscle cells occur in groups, placed on alternate sides of the vessel. The reason is probably this : the length of the uncontracted muscle cells being about equal to the circumference of the vessel, the muscle cells, when contracting, are thus able to narrow uniformly the vessel. In somewhat larger arterial branches the larger circum- ference requires more than this, and the muscle cells form a continuous circular layer in all parts of the vessel. (c) Inside the muscle layer is a delicate hyaline elastic membrane, the intima. (d) The inner boundary is formed by the endotheluim, being a continuation of the endothelial wall of the capillary vessel. The endothelial plates of all arterial vessels are much elongated, with more or less straight outlines.