ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 140 carotis, subclavia, mesenterica, &c., most muscle cells are more or less flattened, and their outline not smooth but beset with small processes. When the muscle cells are viewed in transverse section (that is, in a longitudinal section through the vessel), they differ in so far from those of a transverse section through ordinary unstriped muscle tissue, such as of the intestine, bladder, uterus, &c., as many more muscle cells are found showing a nucleus in the former than in the latter; the reason being that the muscle cells of the arteries are much shorter than in other organs, and hence more muscle cells are cut through the nuclear portion in a given transverse section through the former than in one through the latter. In the large arterial trunks also a certain amount of connective tissue is present in the media, in the form of small branched flattened nucleated connective-tissue cells, embedded in a hyaline albuminous interstitial substance. The media is separated from the adventitia by a special elastic membrane (external elastic coat, Henle), conspicuous only in larger arteries, as carotis, mesenterica, renalis, hepatica, cruralis, &c. (c) The intima is very distinct in all arteries ; in the minute branches it is a thin bright elastic membrane, much folded when viewed in a transverse section through a contracted vessel. It is thickened on its outer surface by longitudinal elastic fibres forming a network. In the larger branches the intima is laminated, the laminae being (longitudinal) fenestrated elastic membranes, between which pass (longitudinal) networks of elastic fibres. In the arterial trunks there are branched connective-tissue corpuscles present between the laminae constituting the intima. The large arteries possess on the inner surface of the intima, underneath the lining endothelium, a special connective-tissue membrane, the inner longitudinal fibrous layer of Remak, Kolliker, Gimbert, Eberth, and others. This subendothelial connective-tissue membrane consists chiefly of longitudinal bundles of fibrous-connective tissue, and between them are anastomosing branched connective-tissue cells. But even small arterial branches seem to possess a prolongation of this inner connective-tissue membrane, in the form of a single layer of branched cells separating the intima from the lining endothelium. (d) The endothelial cells lining the lumen of large arterial trunks are less elon- gated than those of the minute branches, but this depends on the state of contraction of the vessel; for when this is contracted, the cells appear more elongated and thicker than when not contracted. The Aorta differs only slightly, in structure, from other large arteries; the fol- lowing points deserve to be mentioned :— (a) The adventitia, composed of fibrous-connective tissue, is relatively very thin.