82 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. Fig. VI. Part of a striped muscle fibre of hydrophylus prepared with absolute alcohol. a. Sarcolemma. b. Membrane of Krause. Owing to contraction during hardening the sarcolemma shows regular bulgings. At the side of Krause’s membrane is the transparent lateral disc. The chief mass of a ‘ muscular compartment ’ is occupied by the contractile disc, composed of sarcous elements. The substance of the individual sarcous elements has collected more at the extre- mity than in the centre, hence this latter is more transparent. The optical effect of this is that the contractile disc appears to possess a ‘ median disc.’ Several nuclei (of muscle corpuscles) are shown, and in them a minute net- work. Fig. VII. A muscle fibre of hydrophylus prepared in the same manner as in fig. VI. The sarcolemma, to a great extent detached, shows the regular bulgings as in the pre- vious figure, but the membranes of Krause are not seen. Fig. VIII. Portion of a broken muscle fibre of hydrophylus, showing part of sar- colemma and part of Krause’s membranes; the contractile discs are being disintegrated into the constituent sarcous elements. PLATE XVI. Figures IX. X. XIV. a and b, and XVI. are drawn under a magnifying power of about 450 ; figures XI. and XIII. under one of about 300; figures XII. and XV. under one of about 150. Fig. IX. Transverse section through muscle fibres of human tongue. The muscle fibres appear in transverse section of different sizes, owing to their being more or less spindle-shaped ; each fibre is limited by a definite membrane, the sarcolemma. The muscle corpuscles are indicated by their deeply stained nuclei, situated at the inside of the sarcolemma. There are several connective-tissue corpuscles between the muscle fibres, belonging to the endomysium. Each muscle fibre shows the Cohnheim’s fields, that is the sarcous elements in transverse section and separated by clear (apparently linear) interstitial substance. Fig. X. Transverse section through muscle of heart. The fibres are irregular in shape and size, owing to their being branched ; the muscle corpuscles are indicated by their nuclei, situated in about the middle of the fibres. Fig. XI. From a section through muscle of tongue of rat ; between and on the