50 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. The irregular distribution of hyaline ground-substance around the cartilage-cells, mentioned above, is in a great measure due to some cartilage-cells, or groups of them, undergoing a more rapid increase in number, and hence are surrounded by less hyaline ground-substance than others. It is doubtful whether in the process of reproduction the division of the cell-sub- stance is always caused by a septum in conjunction with the capsule, and therefore it is also doubtful whether the daughter-cells are primarily disconnected from each other, being enclosed in their separate lacuna (Leidy, Claparede, Heidenhain, and especially Schleicher), seeing that in many instances the first two daughter-cells, and even a group of cartilage cells, may be seen aggregated within a common lacuna. The ground-substance of hyaline cartilage is not altogether solid, but contains numerous fine channels permeating it (Bubnoff); these channels form the anastomosing canals between neighbouring lacunae (Heitzmann, A. Budge). Arnold has shown that the capsule of each cartilage cell is permeated by numerous very fine radiating canals. Thus the hyaline cartilage possesses, just like fibrous-connective tissue, an anastomosing system of lacunae and canals (A. Budge, Arnold, Nykamp), which will be mentioned in the chapter on the Lymphatics as forming the lymph-canal system of the hyaline car- tilage in connection with the lymphatics of the perichondrium. Near the perichondrium the cartilage cells become flattened and smaller than those of the depth, and in some localities, e.g. near the surface of articular cartilage and near the junction of this and the synovial membrane, are even branched (Hiiter, Albert, Rayner), and in the latter place form a direct connection with the branched connective-tissue corpuscles. A peculiar arrangement of cartilage-cells—viz. in more or less paralled rows— exists in the hyaline cartilage that unites the diaphysis with the epiphysis of long bones. This is called ossifying or, better, intermediary cartilage, and will be more particular!)- noticed, in connection with the growth of bone, in the next chapter. The ground-substance of hyaline cartilage becomes occasionally, especially in the process of development of bone in cartilage, in advancing age, or under pathological conditions, the seat of a deposit of lime matter, calcification of cartilage, in the form of opaque roundish angular or irregularly shaped masses. The deposit of lime matter commences next to the cartilage cell (Ranvier). No nerves or blood-vessels have been seen in hyaline cartilage except those of its perichondrium. B. Fibrous Cartilage. This form of cartilage is also called white fibrous- or connective-tissue cartilage. It occurs as cartilagines interarticulares, ligamenta intervertebralia, cartilago symphysis