305 STRUCTURE OF GRAFIAN FOLLICLES. 2. Albuginea, composd here of spindle-shaped cells, arranged as a superficial longi- tudinal and a deep transverse layer. 3. The groups of small Grafian follicles forming the cortical layer of Schron. Each of these follicles shows a distinct membrana propria lined with a layer of transparent flattened cells, membrana granulosa. The nucleus or germinal vesicle of the ovum contains a beautiful reticulum, not well shown in the figure. Fig. VII. From the layer d of the same specimen as in figure IV. Magnifying power about 350. a. Membrana propria and membrana granulosa (indicated by its nuclei) of a portion of a large Grafian follicle. b. The ovum in its discus proligerus. c. The stroma of spindle-shaped cells. d. A bundle of spindle-shaped cells cut transversely. e. Group of interstitial epithelial cells (see the text). Fig. VIII. A small Grafian follicle of layer c of figure IV., under a magnifying power of about 350. The membrana propria, the epithelium lining it, the zona pellucida, and the ovum are well shown. The germinal vesicle contains a well-developed reticulum, not distinctly shown in the figure. Fig. IX. Copied from Kolessnikow in ‘ Archiv fur mikroskopische Anatomie,’ vol. xv. Plate xxv. From a section through the ovary of perca fluviatilis. a. The germinal epithelium. b. Two nests of epithelial cells, each with an ovum. The surrounding stroma is not represented here ; the nests are still in connection with the germinal epithelium of the surface (see the text). Fig. X. From a transverse section through the fundus uteri of a newborn child. Magnifying power about 40. a. Cavity of the uterus, lined with a layer of columnar epithelium ; the gland tubes embedded in the mucosa are seen cut in various directions. The figure represents not quite one half of the circumference of the cavity of the uterus. b. The mucosa ; owing to the low magnifying power only the nuclei of its cells are indicated here. c. The inner muscular layer, composed of bundles, most of them cut obliquely because running in an oblique or more or less longitudinal direction.