365 THE OUTER NUCLEAR LAYER. the inner extremities of the inner members of both rods and cones, as mentioned above. 4. The Outer Nuclear Layer. Having passed the limitans externa, each rod and cone continues on its radial course through this layer as the rod- or cone-fibre respectively, and at the same time becomes a great deal thinner; this is especially the case with the rod-fibres, which resemble fine filaments. Each rod- and cone-fibre contains at one point an oval nucleus. Owing to the relative thinness of the rods and cones, and consequently owing to the relatively and absolutely great abundance of them, the number of layers of the nuclei forming the outer nuclear layer is very considerable; in the retina of the batrachiae, owing to the thick rods and cones, the number of the nuclei is much smaller, being reduced to two, or at most three layers. In the retina of man and mammals the nuclei of the cone-fibres are in close contact with the limitans externa, while those of the rod-fibres are arranged in several layers further away. Owing to this relation, viz., the close position of the nucleus to the body of the cones in man and mammals, it follows that the outer portion of the cone-fibre, i.e. the part between the nucleus and the body of the cone, is very much shorter than the inner one, while in the rod-fibres the two portions, viz. the inner and outer, are both of an easily perceptible length. But this condition is not common to all vertebrates, for in batrachiae the relation is reversed, the nuclei of the rod-fibres lying in immediate contact with the limitans externa. About the macula lutea of the retina of man and mammals, where the number of rods becomes greatly reduced, of course also the layers of the nuclei diminish in numbers, especially in the inner parts of this, i.e. the outer nuclear layer; and there exists here a narrower or broader stratum between the above nuclei and the next following outer granular layer of the retina, in which only the inner portions of the cone-fibres are to be met with. This is Henle’s outer fibrous layer. While the outer part of the rod-fibre is always the gradually attenuated continua- tion of the inner member of the rod, that of the cone-fibre often contrasts in a marked manner with the body of the cone, inasmuch as this latter appears to rest with a broad extremity on the limitans externa (Kolliker), while the cone fibre is here very thin. Thus it appears as if the cone-fibre were an independent thread penetrating into the body of the cone like its axial fibre (Krause and others). As regards the nuclei themselves, those of the rod-fibres differ from those of the cone-fibres not only in position, as mentioned above, but also in their aspect. In man 302