177 LYMPHATICS OF CARTILAGE AND BONE. one another by fine canals, and also with the lacunae of the cells of the perichondrium ; so that also in these cartilages we meet with a lymph-canalicular system similar to that of the cornea. This lymph-canalicular system is in direct communication with the lymphatic vessels of the perichondrium. Budge injected it in the articular cartilage (of calf) from the lymphatic vessels of the periosteum, and Nykamp saw it indicated in hyaline cartilage of rabbit by granules of indigo carmine, this substance having been injected into the peritoneal cavity several hours previously. Arnold saw the indigo sulphate of sodium, which had been previously injected into the circulating blood, deposited in fine lines passing in a radiating manner through the capsules of the cartilage cells. Consequently the canaliculi by which neighbouring lacunae anastomose and which permeate the hyaline matrix, increase greatly in numbers as they pass through the capsule immediately surrounding the lacuna of the cartilage cell. 11. The lymphatics of bone. The periosteum possesses a network of lymphatic vessels which are in connection with the lymph-clefts (lymph-canalicular system) of the fibrous-connective tissue of that organ. According to Budge the lymphatics of the periosteum of the metatarsus of calf are arranged in several layers, and in most instances accompany the blood-vessels. Schwalbe found in the human femur and tibia lymphatic vessels only in the superficial layers of the periosteum, but saw numerous clefts, especially between the inner and outer layer, anastomosing with those vessels. The periosteal lymphatics are in communication with the lymphatics of the Haver- sian canals (Budge, Schwalbe); these are either perivascular lymphatics totally invagi- nating the blood-vessel of the Haversian canal (Rauber, Budge, Schwalbe) or, as in the large Haversian canals, they are separate lymphatics accompanying the blood-vessels. In both cases the wall of the lymphatics is represented by a single layer of endothelium. The lymphatics of the Haversian canals are in open connection with the lacunae and canaliculi of the bone corpuscles (Budge), and these represent therefore a similar lymph-canalicular system as that of the cornea (see also chapter on Bone). The marrow also contains lym- phatic vessels, which generally accompany or invaginate the veins and capillaries (Budge). Schwalbe demonstrated a continuous endothelium on the surface of the yellow marrow and on that of the cord of vessels lying in the canalis nutritius. Arnold recognised the course of the lymphatic system, as just described, by a deposit of indigo sulphate of sodium taking place in the lymphatic system of bone of frog, that substance having been previously (24 to 48 hours) injected into the circulating system. 12. The lymphatics of the nervous system have been described and figured in pre- vious chapters in connection with these tissues.