BLOOD-VESSELS OF UTERUS. 297 brane break up into capillary networks for the glands and for the subepithelial layer of the mucous membrane. In the muscular coat the arteries terminate in networks of capillaries for the muscular bundles. The arterioles entering the mucous membrane of the cervix and its capillaries are distinguished by the great thickness of their wall (Henle). The arrangement of the venous vessels of the anterior and posterior side of the fundus is, in the normal uterus of the child at any rate, of a peculiar nature, viz.: near the peritoneum, and more or less embedded in the outer muscular stratum, is a plexus of relatively small veins, running chiefly in a longitudinal direction, but the middle stratum contains huge venous sinuses or cavernse more or less longitudinally arranged and connected into a plexus. The wall of these venous sinuses is composed, as usual, of an endothelial membrane, and outside this is a very thin connective-tissue membrane, but the plexuses of small bundles of the muscular coat give to these sinuses a powerful support, for they sur- round them as circular or longitudinal or oblique bundles, the first being predominant. These venous sinuses are in open communication, on the one hand, with the capillary blood-vessels of this stratum of the muscular coat, and, on the other, with the plexus of smaller veins situated externally, as mentioned above. From this, then, it follows that we have here a condition of things analogous to that existing in the corpus spongiosum of the urethra, described on a former page; viz. the capillary blood-vessels discharge their blood into large venous sinuses surrounded by, and embedded in, a plexus of muscular trabeculae; these sinuses anastomose with a plexus of veins much smaller than them- selves. This middle stratum with its venous sinuses differs in this respect in a marked manner from the inner stratum of the muscular coat, inasmuch as the latter stratum is without any venous sinuses and contains only small vessels, both arterial and venous, which pass through it in an oblique direction. The lymphatics are very numerous; according to Leopold they are present in the mucous membrane as the above-named lymph sinuses lined with endothelium. These sinuses are in open communication with lymphatic vessels and lymphatic clefts situated in the connective-tissue of the muscular coat. They form an intercommunicating system, and both kinds of lymphatics are lined with an endothelium. In man their arrangement is very complex, owing to the complex way in which the muscular bundles are arranged. They lead into a subserous plexus of large lymphatic tubes with valves and saccular dilatations. In the uterus-horns of mammals the lymphatics of the muscular coat are of a more regular arrangement, being pre-eminently longitudinal in the outer, circular