61 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. facial bones, are at an early stage of embryonal life preceded by solid hyaline cartilage. This does not ossify at any time, and does not therefore become converted into the bone tissue, but is replaced by bone formed directly or indirectly from the perios- teum. Sharpey, E. H. Weber, Loven, and others first taught this doctrine; the researches of H. Muller, Gegenbaur, Landois and Waldeyer fully established it. The same mode of development, viz. from the periosteum, exists also in the case of the tegmental bones of the skull and those of the face, and there is no essential difference in the development of bone in cartilage, intracartilaginous or endochon- dral (Strelzoff) bone, and in bone that is formed without the intervention of cartilage in membrane, intermembranous or periostal bone. Endochondral Bone. ist Stage. Solid hyaline cartilage covered by perichondrium; this latter is identi- cal with the periosteum whose place it holds in this and the subsequent stage. It con- sists, like the periosteum, of an external and internal layer ; owing to the early stage neither of these two layers possesses any fibrous tissue yet, but instead of it, spindle- shaped embryonal cells, similar to other connective tissues in the foetal state. But there is a definite distinction between the two layers, the internal or osteogenetic layer containing numerous spherical cells (the future osteoblasts), and many blood-vessels, whereas the outer layer has the uniform structure of embryonal connective tissue. 2nd Stage. The osteogenetic layer of the perichondrium penetrates, in the shape of longer or shorter processes (periostal processes, Virchow), into channels of the cartilage formed for them, and probably by them, through absorption. Thus the cartilage becomes gradually permeated by a system of anastomosing channels, cartilage- channels, containing a vascular tissue, rich in cells, and derived from the osteogenetic layer of the perichondrium. This change may be appropriately called that of Chondroporosis, and it starts at the so-called points of ossification. 3rd Stage. The cartilage around the oldest cartilage-channels becomes more transpa- rent owing to the lacunae of the cartilage cells becoming larger and the cells themselves more transparent. Then the lacunae next the channel become confluent with this latter, the corresponding cartilage cells having been disintegrated, and the trabeculae of ground- substance separating the lacunae having undergone calcification. Instead of the single cartilage-channels with smooth outline of the former stage, we now find in these places irregular cavities, into which projects a network of trabeculae of calcified cartilage. These irregular cavities, primary marrow cavities, are filled with the tissue that was originally contained in the cartilage-channels, viz. the periostal processes derived from the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, the tissue in question having, of course, undergone