DIFFERENT LAYERS IN THE CORTEX OF CEREBELLUM. 113 aspect, as the space is well shown in which lie cell and processes, especially the process of the apex ; the substance of the ganglion cells is not visible except the nucleus and its nucleolus. Fig. II. From the same section as fig. I., more highly magnified. The matrix is a net- work of minute fibrils, possessing chiefly a direction vertical to the surface of the hemisphere. The ganglion cells are marked by their pericellular space ; of the substance of the cells only the nucleus and its nucleolus are visible. Several deeply stained nuclei belong- ing to the neuroglia cells, or cells of Deiters’, are contained in the matrix. A branched capillary vessel with its perivascular space is seen in the right lower part of the figure. Figures III. IV. and V. show isolated, chiefly pyramidal, ganglion cells of various sizes, of the grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres of man. Fig. IV. shows the typical 1 pyramidal cells of the ‘ formation of the cornu Ammonis ; ’ they possess a long process of the apex, terminating in the fine nerve network of the cortex, so do also the lateral basilar processes. The median basilar process is, in most instances, the unbranched axis- cylinder process, but in this instance it appears branched. Fig. VI. Vertical section through the grey matter of the human cerebellum Magni- fying power about 100. a. The superficial, so-called molecular, or better fibrillar layer, containing in a matrix of fine nerve networks the dichotomously branched processes of the large ganglion cells of Purkinie, that form the second layer b. The nuclei of the fibrillar layer belong partly to small ganglion cells, partly to Deiters’ neuroglia cells. Two (branched) capillary blood-vessels pass from the free surface, that is, from the pia mater, into the grey matter. c. Nuclear layer, containing, in a fine nerve network, numerous groups of nucleated cells, of which only th^ nuclei are visible. d. Part of white substance. Fig. VII. Vertical section through a ‘ lamina ’ of cerebellum of rat, showing the distribution of the blood-vessels, injected with carmine gelatine, seen under a low magni- fying power. a. Pia mater of the surface. b. Fibrillar cortex, so-called molecular layer. c. Nuclear layer. Between this and the preceding layer are indications of Purkinje’s cells. d. White matter forming the centre of the * lamina.’ The capillary blood- vessels of the grey matter are more numerous than those of the white matter ; in the cortical layer the vessels have a more or less vertical direction.