STOMATA OF SEROUS MEMBRANES. i75 blood-vessels, and a third group enter Pacinian corpuscles. Krause observed in the synovial membranes of the joints of the human fingers medullated nerve fibres terminating in peculiar tactile corpuscles, * articulation-nerve corpuscles.’ 7. Besides the true stomata mentioned above as occurring on the peritoneum of the diaphragm and on the intercostal pleura, there are also true stomata in other membranes, as in the mesentery, omentum, pleura mediastini; they are mostly marked by two or three or more germinating cells surrounding them. These cells, when ripe, become detached and may be at once absorbed as lymph-corpuscles (Klein). The best stomata are seen on the mesogastrium and mesentery of frog and the septum cisternse lymphaticae magnse of the same animal. In the latter membrane the stomata are short canals by which a direct communication is established between the peritoneal cavity and the large cistern behind ; in the former membranes the stomata open into a superficial lymphatic. In female individuals, especially during the spawning season, both on the mesogastrium and mesentery (Klein), as well as on the peritoneal surface of the septum cist, lymph, magn. (Dogieland Schweigger-Seidel, Klein), the endothelial cells lining the stomata are ciliated and often germinate (Klein). (See also Chapter III., Plate V.) 8. The epithelium lining mucous membranes and secreting glands and the endo- thelium covering serous and synovial membranes or lining blood-vessels and lymphatics bear a definite relation to the lymph-canalicular system of the tissue underneath or outside respectively. This relation may be shortly described by saying that the hyalin albu- minous interstitial or cement-substance, i.e. the substance separating the individual epi- thelial or endothelial cells, is directly continuous with the albuminous interstitial substance in which the Ivmph-canalicular system is embedded (see above), so that fluid and formed matter can pass freely from the intra-epithelial cement-substance into the lymph-canalicular system underneath, or vice versa. And also the connective-tissue corpuscles contained in the lymph-canalicular system are continuous with branched nucleated cells which extend into the epithelium, and whose processes are lost in the cement-substance of the epithelium. These intra-epithelial connective-tissue corpuscles (pigmented or unpig- mented) have been mentioned before on more than one occasion. The absorption through the epithelium and endothelium is therefore carried out by means of the interstitial cement-substance, hence the current passes into the subjacent lymph-canalicular system, and finally into the lymphatic vessels. The absorption of fluid and formed matter is carried out in the same manner in every epithelium (including that of the villi of small intestine, bronchi, and alveoli of lung, glands, &c.) and endothelium, viz. through the interstitial substance and not through the substance of the epithelial or endothelial cells themselves; this mode of absorption may be described as taking place through pseudo- stomata, as different from that through true stomata (stomata vera).