447 INDIRECT DIVISION OF NUCLEI c. The first phase ; in it the fibrils of the nucleus are much thicker and uniformly arranged as a ‘ convolution.’ No limiting membrane of the nucleus is visible. d. In this next phase the nucleus has become much enlarged, the fibrils being still convoluted ; some of these are much thicker than others ; some appear as ‘ double threads’ (see Text). e. The fibrils form distinct loops arranged as if radiating towards a centre, like a wreath ; this is the stage of the wreath or rosette. The fibrils form also loops at the periphery. f. A later phase ; the loops are separated into two layers ; in each they radiate towards a separate centre. In the drawing this is not well shown. The fibrils of the nucleus of the preceding figures, as well as those of the present one, are compressed into a relatively thin plane, thus forming what is called the ‘ nuclear plate,’ or the ‘ equatorial plate.’ The fibres are almost all double-threads. The nucleus is much larger than in the previous stage. g. A later stage, or the stage of the Dyaster. The nucleus is larger than before. The loops are distinctly separated into two stars. The loops of the two stars are already severed in the central part, but are still connected in the periphery. h. The severance of the loops belonging to the two daughter stars is complete. Some of the threads are double-threads. The cell outline in this and all the following figures is only indicated. i. Profile view of a Dyaster, in which the threads of the daughter stars are pressed against one another; this is a stage immediately following the stage of the nuclear plate, i.e. when the two stars begin to move away from one another. k. The two stars of the Dyaster have completely separated. Each is still com- posed of separate loops. /. The daughter stars have changed, the loops of each having become alternating. The cell itself exceptionally shows here no indication yet of division. in. Two daughter nuclei, the cell has already divided. The loops of the nuclei are still recognisable. n. A further stage in which the threads of the daughter nuclei are arranged as the ‘ convolution.’ The next stage would be this, in which each of the daughter nuclei presents the same appearances as the nucleus figured in a. o. An endothelial cell of the membrana Decemeti of the frog (Rana esculenta), drawn from a preparation of Dr. Mayzel of the University of Warsova.