MEDULLATED NERVE FIBRES. 3 7 segment (Axel Key and Retzius), occasionally (though rarely) there are more than one (Lantermann). These cells, being analogous to the muscle corpuscles of striped muscle fibres, may be appropriately called nerve corpuscles. The medullated nerve fibres contained in the nerve bundles of a cerebro-spinal nerve trunk are of various thickness, as mentioned above, fine fibres being interspersed amongst thick ones ; in some nerve trunks, as the branches derived from the sacral plexus, the fine nerve fibres are in some bundles seen aggregated into special smaller or larger groups. Some medullated nerve fibres, especially motor fibres and the nerve fibres of electric organs, when approaching their terminal distribution, divide into two or more branches, the division taking place at a node of Ranvier. Some medullated nerve fibres, especially in the opticus and the central nervous organs, possess more or less regular varicose thickenings ; these are not due to a coagu- lation of the medullary sheath, as formerly believed, but to local accumulations, in the periaxial space, of the albuminous cement-substance mentioned above (Axel Key and Retzius). Medullated nerve fibres when approaching their terminal distribution lose their medullary sheath, they then consist merely of the axis cylinder and the sheath of Schwann, with the nucleated cells on its inner surface: these are the pale or non-medullated nerve fibres, to which we shall return in a future chapter. Still nearer the termination the non-medullated fibres lose their sheath of Schwann ; and now we have the axis cylinder merely covered from place to place with an elongated nucleated cell plate (Klein), generally of considerable size, and rolled more or less around the axis cylinder. This cell plate corresponds to a nerve corpuscle and possesses in some instances fine processes passing along the axis cylinder for a shorter or longer distance. Ultimately the axis cylinder becomes quite free, and separates into the constituent elemen- tary fibrils which become connected with each other into a network. (See a future chapter.) The elementary fibrils within the axis cylinder, and especially after they have separated from the latter, show, in the fresh condition as well as after staining with chloride of gold, minute more or less regular varicosities (Max Schultze, Cohnheim and others). PLATE XVII. Figures II. IV. and VI. after Axel Key and Retzius, ‘ Studien in der Anat. des Nervensystems/ Part II. Plate XVII.