CEREBROSPINAL GANGLION CELLS. I 21 PLATE XXII. Figs. I. and III. are copied from Key and Retzius. Fig. I. An isolated ganglion cell of a spinal ganglion of toad. Magnifying power about 570. The large cell with its nucleus and nucleolus, the capsule, the axis-cylinder process becoming invested in a medullary sheath, and the continuation of the sheath of Schwann with the cell capsule, are well shown. Fig. II. From a section through a microscopic ganglion of the submaxillary gland of dog. Magnifying power about 300. c. Capsule of the ganglion. n. Nerve fibres passing out of the ganglion ; the nerve fibres entering the ganglion are not contained in the section, they are connected with the upper right portion. The nerve fibres are ordinary medullated fibres, the details of their structure are not represented, owing to the low magnifying power. The ganglion cells are invested in a special capsule, lined by a few nuclei, here represented as if contained in the capsule. Fig. III. A large and small ganglion cell of the ganglion Gasseri of rabbit. The axis cylinder immediately after leaving the cell is much convoluted, it becomes trans- formed into a medullated nerve fibre, which at a certain distance shows a T-shaped division of Ranvier. The structure of the nerve fibre is the same as represented in fig. IX. of Plate XVIII. Magnifying power 850. Fig. IV. A microscopic ganglion of the sympathetic of the bladder of rabbit. Magnifying power about 250. b. Nerve branches, composed of non-medullated fibres, not shown in detail. g. Ganglion cells; the ganglion is a group of ganglion cells situated at the point of anastomosis of several nerve branches. Fig. V. From the plexus of Meissner of the small intestine, prepared with chloride of gold, of toad ; it represents a plexus of broader and narrower axis cylinders composed of elementary nerve fibrils. These fibrils are beaded, and they appear such in all preparations prepared with chloride of gold. There are several small and large single ganglion cells (b) apparently unipolar, each with a clear nucleus, and connected with the branches of the plexus. In the enlarged parts (a) of the plexus are groups of multi- polar ganglion cells of various sizes, each with a clear nucleus. Magnifying power about 150.