ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 62 great increase. This tissue, which, as stated above, contains numerous vessels and cells, is now, viz. when filling the primary marrow cavities, called primary marrow. The reader has no doubt become already aware, that the primary marrow cavities, the primary marrow, the surrounding calcified cartilage and the adjoining zone of large and transpa- rent cartilage cells, are in every respect analogous to the structures present at the point of junction of spongy bone and hyaline cartilage in the growing and adult bone, as described on a former page. And just as in the case of the growing and adult bone, so also in the first development of endochondral bone, the cells of the marrow arrange themselves (by active multiplication) as an epitheloid layer, osteoblasts, on the sur- face of the calcified cartilage trabeculae, and these become gradually ensheathed in true osseous tissue produced by those osteoblasts. 4th Stage. The number of primary marrow cavities, filled with marrow, increases, and the trabeculae of calcified cartilage, having become ensheathed with a considerable layer of osseous tissue, are gradually absorbed. We have now, instead of a network of calcified cartilage trabeculae, as in the previous stage, a network of osseous trabeculae, including in their interior remains of the unabsorbed calcified cartilage. These remains are gradually reduced to longer or shorter angular masses, and finally disappear alto- gether, so that the trabeculae are now altogether composed of osseous substance. We have then the condition of embryonal spongy bone. The further away from the ‘ point of ossification ’ the younger and the thinner are the trabeculae, and the more of the remains of unabsorbed calcified cartilage do they contain. The nearer to the ‘ point of ossification,’ the place whence the process originated, the thicker do we find the trabeculae, and the more does the tissue as a whole resemble spongy bone. The surface of the osseous trabeculae is in all parts covered with osteoblasts, and the cavities separated by the trabeculae are filled with marrow, rich in vessels and cells. In the embryonal spongy bone the osseous matrix does not possess lamellar struc- ture, but forms a peculiar trellis-work (v. Ebner). 5th Stage. The next stage is the absorption of the endochondral spongy bone, begin- ning in the centre, and gradually extending towards the periphery, the trabeculae becoming thinner, and finally altogether disappearing ; the meshes of the spongy bone become hereby confluent into one large cavity, the central marrow cavity, filled with marrow. Simultaneously with this, another very important change takes place, viz. the develop- ment of bone from the periosteum around the endochondral bone. The osteoblasts of the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum form (by multiplication) longer or shorter anastomosing rows of cells, which give origin, in the manner described above, to a network of trabeculae of osseous substance. New layers of osteoblasts (derived from the cells of