13 CILIATED EPITHELIAL CELLS. of which is within the cell in connection with the intracellular network, the long arm being the freely projecting part, and the fulcrum or fixed point lying in the membrane covering the free cell-border. When in the next moment the contraction of the intra- cellular network ceases the cilia move again in the opposite direction. These two phases would correspond to the to-and-fro movement of the cilia. When ciliated cells are stimulated with moderate electric currents, the movement, if it has become slow, is again accelerated (Engelmann). Slight heat increases likewise the movement. And the same effect is produced to a certain extent by any fluid-current, no matter what it contains (Klein) ; not merely by liquor potassii, as often assumed, but by any other fluid ; it is probably the mechanical stimulation produced by the current that acts on the ciliary movement Carbonic acid added in sufficient quantities slackens and then arrests the movement; replacing it by air, the movement sets in again. But in the first place the addition of carbonic acid, just like the addition of any other reagent, produces an acceleration of the movement. All those reagents which, when added in sufficient quantities, destroy or impair the movement of amoeboid cells have the same effect also on ciliary movement. Columnar epithelial cells that reach a free surface, no matter whether they are ciliated or not, undergo occasionally a change of shape, which is associated with the secretion of mucous by them (F. E. Schulze) ; it consists in the conversion of the hyaline interfibrillar or interstitial substance, i.e. the hyaline substance contained in the meshes of the intracellular network, into hygroscopic mucin, and consequently the swelling up of it. Owing to the bulk of the cell-substance occupying the part of the cell nearest the free surface (see woodcut 5), and owing to the cell being covered on its free surface with a membrane, the swelling up of the interfibrillar substance pro- duces a change of shape of the cell—from a columnar cell into a goblet- shaped element—goblet cell (see woodcut 6). It is intelligible how the nucleus, with a small portion of protoplasm surrounding it, is pressed into the distal end of the cell (see woodcut 6). The membrane covering the free border of the cell ultimately becomes detached, and, in the case of the ciliated cell, of course also the cilia fixed in it—and the mucus is finally poured out. The mucous contents of these goblet cells stain deep purple-blue in haematoxylin, and thus obscure the intracellular net- work, whose meshes are now much larger.