DISTRIBUTION OF FINE NERVES OF CORNEA. 347 plexus (Waldeyer) have been described and figured on a former occasion (see Plate XXIV.). The fine nerve fibrils which form the subepithelial network are derived from the branches of the stroma-plexus in two different ways : either through the rami perforantes breaking up into bundles of minute fibrils, or directly from the stroma-plexus as single primitive fibrils or as small bundles of them. The former is the more common mode. In the latter instance, viz. when derived directly from the stroma-plexus, previously to enter- ing the subepithelial network, they branch, and some of them running for a long distance within Bowman’s membrane ultimately enter the subepithelial network, as mentioned before, while others do not enter Bowman’s membrane, but remain in the super- ficial layers of the substantia propria, where, after branching, they terminate ; these are the deep fibrils of Hoyer’s subbasilar plexus. Similar fine nerve fibrils are met with in most parts of the substantia propria, but they are most numerous in the anterior layers. In the frog’s cornea they are exceedingly abundant and compressed, as it were, into a relatively thin stratum, next the membrana Descemeti. Their very great length, their relatively few branches, and their peculiar straight course are very re- markable. In some places they seem to run in a straight line, without branching, and after a shorter or longer course they bend sharply into a direction at a right angle. In other places they, as well as their branches, run a wavy course, or they change their course under right angles in rapid succession. As has been mentioned above, the minute nerve fibrils, coming off from the subepithelial network, enter the epithelium and, having- ascended into the middle and superficial layers, give off lateral branches ; both, viz. the primary fibrils as well as their branchlets, pursue a longer or shorter horizontal course between the epithelial cells, but in a more or less wavy manner, and parallel with the sur- face, repeatedly changing their level. These fibrils give off a good many lateral branches, and anastomose with one another in but few places. What has not been observed before is this : whether the fibrils are next to the superficial layer of epithelial cells or not, they are possessed of exceedingly numerous very fine lateral branchlets, which in ordinary gold specimens are not marked at all, or only as minute rodlike prominences, sticking out at the side of the above fibrils; in perfect specimens, how- ever, they are seen to be the commencement of exceedingly delicate fibrils, which branch dichotomously like the twigs of a tree and break up into a network of very short rods. This ultimate network lies between the epithelial cells and occurs in most layers, except the deepest and the most superficial layer. Many of the intraepithelial nerve fibres, especially the finer and finest ones, are often seen to possess smaller or larger, spherical or angular, varicosities, just like the fibrils of the subepithelial network (seep. 125). That the intraepithelial nerve fibrils 3 e