ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 3H duct form a sort of concentric outer layer around the above bright membrane. It passes from the epidermis into the corium through an interpapillary process, this latter being continued, but decreasing in thickness, on the duct as its epithelium. The duct possesses also a continuation of the basement membrane mentioned above, and this is traceable over the whole length of the gland tube as the membrana propria. With nitrate of silver this membrane presents the appearance of an endothelial membrane (Czerny), but I doubt whether the individual scales possess a nucleus like true endothelial plates ; on the contrary, I am inclined to think that, just like the base- ment membrane, it is composed of the outer portion, the basis or foot-plate, of the ■epithelial cells next to it. The duct consists then of: (a) a narrow canal; (6) a homogeneous bright membrane lining this; (c) an epithelium which is composed of two or three layers of small polyhedral epithelial cells each with a spherical or oval nucleus, and (d) outside this a delicate membrana propria. The lumen or canal of the duct is distinct, in most places cylindrical, and therefore circular in transverse section. Whether the bright membrane lining this is homogeneous or possessed of flattened nuclei it is difficult to ascertain ; in some places, when looked at in profile, it certainly seems as if there were present in it at rare intervals staff-shaped nuclei. The lining membrane stains well in carmine. When it reaches the sub- cutaneous tissue, the duct becomes suddenly'many times coiled up. The first or proximal section, about one-third or one-fourth of the coiled tube, retains the same structure as the duct, and differs from it in the fact that it is coiled up and that its lumen is somewhat larger. The remainder, or the distal part of the coiled tube, is of a different nature, inasmuch as the membrane lining the lumen is reduced to a very delicate film, and the epithelium, which hitherto consisted of two or three layers of small polyhedral cells each with a spherical or oval nucleus, is replaced by a single layer of columnar longitudinally striated cells, each with a spherical nucleus in the outer part of the cell. The membrana propria of this section is however much thicker than in the former, and contains on its inner surface, that is, the one next the epithelial cells, a single and continuous layer of very slender unstriped muscle cells arranged parallel to the long axis of the tube. In some glands this muscle layer is more conspicuous than in others ; in some it is rudimentary, not being quite a continuous layer. As Ranvier pointed out, in the foetus this layer of muscle cells is represented by a layer of cells identical in aspect and origin with the epithelial cells, so that in the foetal gland there are two layers of epithelial cells, one, the inner one, which gives origin to the permanent epi- thelium, while the other is changed into the unstriped muscle cells. As in other glands, so also here the state of contraction and that of distension by