ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 204 reduced to narrower or broader foldlike or villous projections. The glands of the pyloric end of the stomach, viz. the pyloric glands, possess a different structure from those of the rest of the stomach, the peptic glands. The latter are arranged in groups of four, five, and more. The amount of tissue of the mucosa separating these groups varies in different depths of the mucosa; it is much greater near the surface, that is between the ducts, than in the depth. a) The Peptic Glands.—Into each of the above minute ducts, lined with the columnar mucus-secreting epithelium, open two or three tubes, the gland tubes proper. These are straight or slightly wavy, they are generally more or less curved like a hook at their blind extremity, that is, near the muscularis mucosae. The duct amounts to about a third or a sixth of the whole length of the tube; near the cardia, the tubes being shorter, this relation is altered in favour of the ducts. The first section of the gland tube, amounting to about the third or fourth part of the whole tube, is the neck, the rest the body. The neck is much thinner than the body, and this latter increases in breadth towards the blind extremity, the fimdus of the tube. At the point where the neck opens into the duct, the broad lumen of this latter becomes suddenly narrower and extends into the former as a very fine canal. The epithelium of the neck is a continuation of that of the duct; its cells are, however, very much shorter, their substance is more opaque, and their nucleus small and oval. Out- side this epithelium lining the canal of the neck but inside the membrana propria of the gland tube we meet with other cells; they are more or less angular, oval, or spherical cells slightly compressed in vertical diameter, of an opaque or * granular ’ aspect, and containing a clear oval or spherical compressed nucleus; they often bulge out the membrana propria, hence the outline of the tube becomes very irregular. These cells, which were formerly always described as the ‘ peptic cells,’ were shown by Rollett and Heidenhain, who first recognised their true relation, to be always situated outside the epithelium lining the canal of the gland tube. Heidenhain called them parietal cells (Rollett’s delomorphous cells), in contradistinction to the chief cells (Rollett’s adelomorphous cells), that immediately line the canal. They do not form a continuous layer but are isolated. In the neck they are tolerably near one another. The body of the gland tube also possesses only a fine canal lined by columnar cells or chief cells, these being a direct continuation of the chief cells of the neck, but much longer, more columnar, and more transparent than the former. They increase in length in proportion as the gland tube increases in breadth from the neck towards the fundus. The substance of these chief cells is a delicate reticulum with a small amount of a hyaline interstitial substance in its meshes (Klein). The nucleus is spherical or slightly oval, and situated in the outer third of the cell, it contains also an intranuclear network,