ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 152 PLATE XXVII. All figures, except Fig. XVI., are drawn under a magnifying power of about 350 ; fig. XVI. with one of about roo. Fig. X. From an omentum, stained with nitrate of silver, of rabbit. v. Capillary vein ; the nucleated endothelial cells lining the vessel are well shown. a. Young sprouts connected with branched connective-tissue cells ; c. Unfinished capillaries, viz. such as are in the process of being hollowed out, and whose wall has not yet become differentiated into endothelial, cells. There are other rudiments of capillaries, but they are still solid protoplasmic threads. Fig. XI. A branched capillary vessel from the frog’s bladder, stained with chloride of gold ; only the nuclei of the endothelial wall are shown, the preparation, not having been stained in silver, does not show the outlines of the individual endothelial cells. A distinct intranuclear network is seen in each nucleus. There are several coloured blood corpuscles, stained by the gold, in the lumen of the vessel. In the surrounding tissue are seen the branched connective-tissue cells. m. Migratory cells. Figs. XII. and XIV. represent capillary vessels of the frog’s mesentery, stained with nitrate of silver only; the wall of the vessel is viewed from the surface, and is seen to consist of elongated endothelial plates, marked by their outlines only ; the nucleus of the individual endothelial cells is not shown. Fig. XIII. Young capillaries of the omentum of guinea-pig. v. Young capillary vein, showing the nuclei of the endothelial wall. The rest is a network of developing capillaries, which, in several places, are still in the stage of solid protoplasm ; in all of them are transverse septa, being the remnants of the proto- plasm separating the vacuoles. Fig. XV. Developing capillaries from the tail of tadpole, stained first in chloride of gold and then in haematoxylin. v. Capillary vein, clumps of pigment in its wall. a. Solid nucleated protoplasmic sprout of the capillary wall meant to become hollowed out. b. Thin threads of solid protoplasm connecting the wall of two capillaries. These threads are evidently the processes by which the two cells, now transformed into the right and left capillary, were originally connected with one another; when hollowed out such connecting threads represent the branches through which two vessels anastomose.