47 ADIPOSE TISSUE. Fig. III. From the omentum of guinea-pig, whose blood-vessels had been injected with carmine-gelatin : (a) artery, (v) vein, (6) cord-like and nodular masses of cells, richly supplied with capillary blood-vessels. There is no fat formed yet in these lym- phatic nodules and cords. In the young examples of these (c) blood-vessels have not developed yet. Fig. II. From the omentum of young guinea-pig : (a) Minute artery. (v) Minute vein. (c) Capillary blood-vessels in the course of formation : they are not hollowed out yet completely, there being still left in them protoplasmic septa. As will be minutely described in the chapter on blood-vessels, the capillaries develope from nucleated cells, which become hollowed out; this process consists in the vacuolation of cells, each of these possessing one, two, or three vacuoles finally becoming confluent; gradually increasing they are brought in contact and ultimately fuse at their ends ; or one cell grows out into a nucleated solid protoplasmic filament or cylinder, in which vacuoles appear; these increase in size and number, and ultimately fuse into one. The at first solid protoplasmic cylinder is thus transformed into a tube, the protoplasmic remains separating the vacuoles having all disappeared. (d) The ground-substance contains numerous nucleated cells, some of them are more distinctly branched and more flattened than others, appear, therefore, more spindle- shaped. These cells become converted into fat-cells, their interior becoming filled with one, two, or more fat-globules and their nucleus being pressed to the periphery ; so that in a fully-formed fat-cell we find one large fat-drop occupying the centre of the cell, and the original protoplasm, containing the nucleus, forming a mantle or cover round it. Fig. IV. Flat pigmented branched connective-tissue cells, pigment-cells, from the sheath of a large blood-vessel of mesentery of frog. The pigment is not distributed uniformly throughout the cell-substance; being in some places collected in denser masses than in others, some parts of the cell look more black than others. Uncontracted state. Fig. V. Pigment-cells of a similar preparation as the preceding figure, but the cells have withdrawn more or less their pigment into the cell-body ; so that they appear smaller, more black, and less branched; somewhat contracted.