i55 STRUCTURE OF COMPOUND LYMPHATIC GLANDS. The cortex is subdivided by the septa into a single stratum of longer or shorter oval compartments. Owing to the former (septa) possessing a more or less radiating direction, most of the latter (compartments) are broader at their capsular surface than towards the medulla. The septa between two neighbouring compartments not being complete, these latter communicate with one another laterally. Towards the medulla the compartments are in open communication with the spaces pertaining to the medulla, viz. those con- tained in the plexuses of the trabeculae. In many mammals (Heyfelder), especially pig and calf, the septa and trabeculae contain unstriped muscle-cells, some of the trabeculae being almost entirely muscular. Besides the flat connective-tissue corpuscles, the septa and the trabeculae contain in some instances (pig, guinea-pig, occasionally also man) numerous plasma-cells of Waldeyer. It is essential for the understanding of the structure of the compound lymphatic glands to have a clear conception of the arrangement of the framework. In examining sections through these glands it is necessary to be aware that only those sections that pass through the gland in the direction of the septa, show the exact relations of the cortex and medulla, and the shape and size of the above compartments. (2) The gland tissue proper or adenoid tissue (His) occupies the above compart- ments of the cortex and the spaces between the trabeculse of the medulla. From the peculiar arrangement of the framework as above described it follows that the adenoid tissue forms in the cortex a stratum of oval or egg-shaped masses, follicles; these masses pass in the shape of more or less cylindrical tracts, medullary cylinders, into the medulla, where they anastomose into a network. The cortical follicles are everywhere separated from the capsule and septa by a distinct and almost uniform space, lymph-sinus (His) ; the same relation exists also in the medulla, the medullary cylinders being separated from the trabeculse by uniform lymph-sinuses. The lymph-sinuses of the cortex represent therefore the peripheral portion of the above compartments, and their boundaries are consequently the outer surface of the follicles on the one hand, and the inner surface of the capsule and septa on the other ; the lymph-sinuses of the medulla are the spaces between the surface of the medullary cylinders and the trabeculae. From what has been said above, on the occasion of the framework, the cortical sinuses intercommunicate with one another ; so do, of course, the medullary sinuses; and also the former are in open communication with the latter. The structure of the adenoid tissue both in the follicles of the cortex and in the cylinders of the medulla is precisely the same; it is this : (#) the ground substance or matrix is a dense reticulum, adenoid reticulum, of fine homogeneous fibrils and mem- B b 2