327 NEW FORMATION OF THE HAIR. flattened cells of the outer root sheath, and in this condition, viz. as a bedhair, it may retain its position and existence for a considerable time. In many instances it is, however, eliminated spontaneously or by the growth of a new hair produced from the cells of its (viz. the bedhair s) outer root sheath. As mentioned previously, this part of the external- root sheath, viz. about the region of attachment of the arrector muscle, contains on its surface sometimes few, sometimes many, smaller or larger, knoblike or cylindrical solid projections of epi- thelial cells. Now, in some instances, one of these grows into the depth as a cylindrical solid cell-mass, either making for itself a new path, i.e. becoming provided with a new hair-sac, or advancing in the path of the former hair ; this is the rudiment of the outer root sheath of the new hair. Its extremity becomes inflected over a new papilla, just as was the case in the foetal process. The cells of this inflected part rapidly increase in numbers, and thus form the bulbous extremity, in connection with which the hair itself-and its inner root sheath are formed in exactly the same manner as in the embryo. Now, the new hair, as it grows upwards in the axis of the new outer root sheath, either passes altogether at the side of its bedhair and ultimately reaches the surface, its follicle becoming provided with a new neck and mouth ; or it makes its way into the follicle of the bedhair. In this case the hair knob being pressed by the pointed extremity of the new hair is gradually pushed upwards towards the free surface and finally is altogether ejected. Hair-follicles with two hairs, one an old hair-knob and the other a young newly formed papillary hair and growing from the depth, are to be explained in this manner. Stieda exhaustively proved the degeneration of the old papilla and the formation of a new one; Feiertag, Schulin, and especially Unna by his elaborate and careful researches, fully established it. Biesiadecki, v. Ebner and Remy, however, still adhere to the older doctrine (Langer), according to which the old papilla persists, and in connection with it the new hair is produced. The Nails. The nails are, like the hairs, peculiar transformations of the stratum Malpighii. The body of the nail, except at the free margin, is fixed over the nail-bed, while its root is firmly held over the nail-matrix, that is, the posterior part of the nail-bed, and is inserted in a fold, the nail groove; this being at the same time the fold by which the posterior margin of the nail-matrix passes into the free skin. But throughout its whole extent, except at the free margin, the nail is in immediate and close contact with the nailbed. This latter is corium covered with the stratum Malpighii. In a vertical section the substance of the nail appears composed of a great many