125 NERVE TERMINATION IN THE CORNEA. (Eng'elmann) : a deep one and a superficial one; the former belongs to the substance proper of the cornea, the latter to the anterior epithelium. The larger branches of both are invested in an endothelial sheath (Durante, Thanhoffer, Thin), and near their peri- pheral distribution are composed merely of elementary nerve fibrils. The minute branches of the deep system dissolve themselves into small bundles of elementary nerve fibrils, and ultimately into the individual fibrils; these are very characteristic by their exceedingly long and straight course, by their more or less rectangular bends, and by their anastomosing amongst themselves into a terminal network, the ‘ deep network.’ This network lies close to the Des- cemetic membrane, but there are minute fibrils which pass through this latter in an oblique manner, and appear to be connected into a further network close to, or in the Descemetic endothelium (Klein). That there are fine fibrils of the deep network that terminate by being connected with the corneal corpuscles (body or processes) has been affirmed, denied, re-affirmed, and re-denied. Kiiline, Lipmann, Moseley, Lavdowsky, Thanhoffer, Konigstein, Izquierdo and others assume such a connection ; Engelmann, Dwight, Tolotschinow, Rollett, Klein, Waldeyer and others deny it. The branches of the superficial system form first a subepithelial plexus (Arnold, Saemisch) ; the nature of the parts of this plexus has been mentioned above; it may be added that within the thicker branches the elementary fibrils are much twisted and cross each other in many ways, and appear even to be connected into a network. This subepithelial plexus lies a short distance away from the epithelium. Fine branches come off from it, they pass in an oblique or vertical direction, as rami perforantes, towards the lower surface of the epithelium (Cohnheim, Kolliker), where they split up into isolated or minute groups of elementary nerve fibrils. In the periphery of the cornea these fibrils come off from the perforating branches in small brushlike bundles (Cohnheim, Klein). In preparations prepared with chloride of gold the elementary fibrils are possessed of minute varicosities, and for this reason a perforating branch with the brushlike bundle of beaded elementary fibrils bears a great resemblance to a ‘cat-o’-nine-tails.’ The elementary fibrils run for a shorter or longer distance close underneath the epithelium, they are straight or slightly wavy and anastomose with one another into a network, subepithelial network (Klein, Izquierdo). After a longer Ox- shorter course they rise perpendicularly or in a slightly oblique direction into the epithelium (Hoyer, Cohnheim, Kolliker), where they ascend towards the surface, winding their way between the epithelial cells. They give off horizontal fibrils (Kolliker, Klein). The latter anas- tomose into a network (deep intraepithelial network, Klein); the former also join into a