2 77 STRUCTURE OF EPIDIDYMIS. polyhedral cells. In some instances, amongst the superficial columnar cells, may be found goblet cells with or without mucous secretion. The cells, and their cilia, increase towards the canal of the epididymis. The thickness of the epithelium is greatly dependent on the state of contraction of the muscular coat; it is, of course, greater when this (muscular coat) is contracted than when not. The seminal tubules, as well as the tubes of the epididymis, are surrounded by a rich network of capillary blood-vessels. Of the termination of the nerves in the seminal tubules and in those of the epidi- dymis nothing positive is known. In connection with the rete testis, Roth occasionally observed straight tubes, vasa aberrantia, running for a considerable distance along the epididymis, and terminating in a caecal extremity, simple or branched ; they are lined with a simple columnar ciliated epithelium. The tubes known as Giraldd’s organ, and situated in the first part of the funiculus spermaticus,. are lined with columnar epithelium, possessed of cilia (Roth). The pedunculated hydatid of Morgagni, situated on the head of the epididymis, which, since Luschka, Becker, and others, has been considered as the remains of the foetal Muller’s duct, is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium (Fleischl). That its pyriform body is comparable to an ovary and the small canal attached to it to an oviduct, as maintained by Fleischl, has been disproved by Roth; Waldeyer compares the whole organ to the pars infundibuliformis of the oviduct. Vas Deferens and Vesiculas Seminales. The vas deferens consists of a mucous membrane, a muscular coat, and an outer coat or adventitia. The mucous membrane is a dense connective-tissue feltwork, with networks of fine elastic fibres ; in it is found a rich network of capillary blood-vessels. The epithelium lining the canal is composed of columnar cells, which, with the exception of the part next the epididymis, are without cilia. Each cell includes an oval nucleus, situated in its outer part. The substance of the cell and nucleus differs in no way in structure from that described of columnar epithelial cells on several previous occasions. Between and underneath the columnar cells of this superficial layer are found conical, spindle-shaped, or polyhedral cells ; in the contracted state of the muscle coat these cells appear to be arranged in several layers, so that the epithelium looks much stratified. In the intraperitoneal portion the epithelium as a whole is generally thinner than in the rest of the vas deferens. The mucous membrane is much folded in the ampulla, and the minute depressions