3fS ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. muscle cells, each with a relatively long staff-shaped nucleus. The muscle cells are situated transversely to the long axis of the hair, and are best seen in the distal third or fourth of the hair-follicle, that is to say in the bulbous part. At the rounded extremity of the hair-follicle the tissue of the hair-sac, exclusive of the muscular layer, is pushed in as the club-shaped, pear-shaped, or spherical papilla into the similarly shaped excavation of the bulbous extremity of the hair. The tissue of the papilla is composed of a hyaline matrix in which few thin fibrous bundles and numerous branched connective-tissue cells may be met with besides capillary blood-vessels and nerve fibres. The hair-sac, inclusive of the papilla, is separated from the next following or inner stratum of the hair-follicle by a glassy hyaline basement membrane ; this is thin near the mouth of the hair-follicle, increases in thickness towards the distal part, and reaches its greatest thickness near the bulbous extremity; it becomes again thinner as it approaches the papilla, and over this it is only a very delicate membrane. This glassy membrane of the hair-follicle is a direct continuation of the basement membrane of the corium, and like this is derived from the deep portion of the epithelial cells next to it: in the case of the basement membrane of the corium, the deep layer of the stratum Malpighii ; in that of the hair-follicle, the outer layer of the outer root- sheath. As will be pointed out presently, this is a direct continuation of the epidermis of the surface, and so may be regarded as the epithelium of the hair-follicle. At the mouth and neck of the hair-follicle the outer root-sheath is identical with the epidermis, and therefore includes all its layers (v. Ebner), viz. the stratum corneum, the stratum lucidum, the stratum granulosum, which is specially well marked here, and the stratum Malpighii ; in the rest of the hair-follicle the outer root-sheath is represented by cell-layers identical with the stratum Malpighii only. Consequently, like this latter, it consists of a marginal layer of columnar cells, each with an oblong nucleus, and several layers of polyhedral cells, each with a spherical nucleus. Nearest the central axis of the hair-follicle, that is towards the hair itself, the cells are much flattened and possessed of flattened oval nuclei. In some cases the cells of the marginal and middle layer of the external root-sheath are prickle cells, like those of the stratum Malpighii. The outer root-sheath varies in thickness in different parts of the hair-follicle ; it reaches its greatest thickness about the middle portion of the follicle. Near the extremity it becomes suddenly reduced to a single layer of flattened cells, and then passes over the papilla, the cells, however, changing from flattened into columnar ones. Over the papilla they merge insensibly into the mass of polyhedral cells forming the hair-bulb itself. Just as we mentioned of the stratum Malpighii and the sweat-glands, so also in the