ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 196 of tubes much convoluted, and possessed of shorter or longer lateral branches; each of these possesses a relatively large lumen ; so that the secreting part of the gland is a compound tubular gland (Puky Akos). The mucous glands of all parts of the cavity of the mouth and pharynx are compound tubular glands, identical in structure (v. Ebner, Teraszkievicz, Podwisotzky, and others). They vary in size according to the number and length of the tubes. The wall of both the infundibulum and gland tubes is a membrana propria, composed of a network of branched, flattened cells, each with a flattened nucleus. From these cells and their processes come off thin membranous and filamentous septa, which pass in between the epithelial cells of the gland. And this structure, viz. a membrana propria cojnposed of branched, flattened cells, and membranous or filamentous septa coming ojf from the former and passing into the cement substance of the epithelium lining the gland, repeats itself in all glands, no matter what their function, arrangement, or structure (Boll, Schwalbe, v. Ebner, Watney, and others). The epithelium lining the lumen is a single layer of thin columnar epithelial cells. These are similar in structure to the mucous cells lining the alveoli of the submaxillary gland of dog, viz. transparent cells composed of an intracellular network, with relatively wide meshes. The nucleus is more or less flattened and pressed against the membrana propria. During rest the meshes of the intracellular network contain a transparent mucigen, which during secretion changes into mucin. When exhausted the network is closer, there being less interstitial substance in its meshes, and the cells appear therefore shorter and more ‘ granular in this period we find their nucleus nearly spherical. Similar are the epithelial cells lining the alveoli when not yet fully developed, viz. short and ‘ granular ; the nucleus is at the same time not flattened and pressed against the membrana propria, but spherical and at a little distance from the latter; the lumen of the alveoli is very minute, and hence their diameter is much smaller than when fully developed. In some localities there is outside the lining cells of the alveoli an indication of crescents similar to those described of the submaxillary gland of dog, viz. a semi- lunar group of small ‘granular’ cells, each with a spherical nucleus. In the case of the mucous glands the crescents are very thin and scarce. The transition of the epithelium of the duct into the mucous cells of the infundibulum is more or less sudden, the flat or polyhedral cells at the end of the duct, which may be con- veniently called the intermediary part, become sooner or later longer and more transparent. This change does not occur simultaneously at all points of the circumference, for we see occasionally that while on one side the epithelium has already undergone the above alteration, it remains unchanged for some distance longer on the other side of the lumen of the gland tube.