75 CHAPTER XI. STRIPED MUSCLE FIBRES. All muscles of the skeleton, the heart, and diaphragm, the muscles of the oral cavity, pharynx and larynx, and part of oesophagus, the external muscles of the eye-ball, the muscles of the middle and outer ear, the sphincter vesicae, part of the muscles of the prostate, &c., consist of striped muscle fibres. These are long cylindrical fibres of various thickness, showing a regular transverse striation, due to various discoid elements entering into the constitution of the individual cylinders. The fibres are aggregated into smaller groups, bundles, and these again into -large fasciculi, which form part of an anatomical muscle. Ordinary fibrous-connective tissue separates or surrounds the in- dividual bundles as perimysium ; from this pass minute bundles of connective tissue, with connective-tissue cell plates, into the muscle bundles between the individual muscle fibres as endomysium. Amongst the cells of the endomysium the plasma cells are especially noticeable. See Chapter IV. p. 27. Each muscle fibre, when viewed in the fresh and living but resting state along its long axis, shows :—(a) transverse broad dim bands of a highly refractive substance, alternating with (b) narrow bright bands of a less refractive substance. Both are due to discs placed vertically to the long axis. As will be seen presently, the former alone represent the contractile portion of a muscle fibre, and may be therefore called the contractile discs; the latter, being merely interstitial substance, may be spoken of as interstitial discs (Rollett). During contraction, viz. the parts through which a contrac- tion wave is just passing, the former become thinner in the long axis of the muscle fibre and transparent, the latter more opaque. But while the contractile disc becomes thinner along the long axis of the fibre, it, and consequently also the muscle fibre, becomes thicker in a transverse direction. When a muscle fibre that in the fresh and living state merely shows a differentiation into the above transverse discs, dies sponta- neously or in consequence of hardening reagents, it changes its aspect, inasmuch as it becomes, in addition, longitudinally striated, owing to the appearance of longitudinal, fine, apparently linear masses of a clear bright substance, gradually increasing in amount. Hereby each dim contractile disc becomes differentiated, as it were, into thin oblong rods, the sarcous elements of Bowman, each of which is the length of the disc. The sarcous elements represent the anatomical elements of the contractile disc. N 2