ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 346 In some instances in the fresh state and after reagents, especially after hardening, the cells appear separated from one another by small globular spaces. Under abnormal conditions these increase in number and size, and the cells appear hereby changed into more or less branched corpuscles, connected by their processes. As will be minutely described in a future chapter, Mayzel observed indirect division of the nuclei of these cells. With the exception of the very margin there are no blood-vessels in the cornea. The foetal cornea possesses a network of capillaries extending underneath the anterior epithelium over the whole surface of the cornea, as the precorneal, vascular network. But a short time after birth all vessels disappear, except those at the margin of the cornea, where they terminate in arcuate loops directed towards the centre of the cornea. These vessels carry a small amount of connective tissue from the conjunctiva into the cornea. The Lymphatics.—There are no proper lymphatic vessels in the cornea. As has been mentioned on a former page, the lymphatics of the conjunctiva anastomose at the limbus with the interlamellary lacunar system of the margin of the cornea. A similar communication exists between the lacunar system and the perivascular lymphatics of the blood-vessels in the marginal portion of the cornea (v. Thanhoffer). The lacunar system is an intercommunicating system for the whole cornea. Injections into the lacunae of the superficial layers of the cornea penetrate also into the interstitial substance of the deep epithelial cells of the anterior surface (Leber). All nerves from the larger branches to the finest fibrils of the substantia propria are contained in the interlamellar eement-substance, very often passing through the lacunar system and its canaliculi- The larger nerve branches are possessed of a perineural sheath which, just as in other places, is composed of a single layer of endothelial plates (v. Recklinghausen, Durante, Thanhoffer, Thin, see pp. 85 and 125), but this endothelial membrane cannot be said to represent the endothelial wall of a lymphatic vessel in the accepted sense. The corneal tubes of Bowman, which present themselves in the cornea into whose tissue injection matter had been forced, are artificial products (Rollett), being shorter or longer spaces dug out in the interstitial cement-substance between the bundles of one and the same lamella, or long canals dug out between the lamellae. The Nerves of the cornea have been described on p. 125, but I wish here to make ■3. few additional remarks concerning their termination, having lately had the opportunity of a renewed inquiry into this subject. The detailed account of this will be found in the 4 Journal of Micr. Science,’ October, 1880. The nature and arrangement of the branches of the subepithelial plexus or stroma