46 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. shown, at any rate for the cutaneous pigment-cells, to take place under the influence of chemical, mechanical and electrical irritation; it is under the control of the nerves (Lister), and is influenced, as a reflex action, through the retina (Pouchet). The variation in the contraction of the pigment-cells of the skin in fishes and amphibian animals determines the change of colour observed in these animals (Leydig, v. Wittich, Briicke, v. Siebold, and others). The distribution of the pigment in a pigment-cell does not indicate the whole outline of the cell, and also the retraction of the pigment towards the centre, i.e. towards the nucleus, is not equivalent to a retraction of the cell-processes (Klein), inasmuch as only part of the cell-substance is retracted. It has been shown (Klein) that the substance of the pigment-cells when deprived of the pigment possesses a fibrillar structure, and interpreting this by the light of the experience on the structure of ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles—see Chapter IV. p. 29—it is probable that the contractile part of a pigment-cell, viz. that containing the pigment matter, is only the fibrillar substance, intracellular network of fibrils, as distinct from the groundplate. It thus becomes intelligible that the extent of the pigment does not indicate the outline of the cell, nor do all parts of the cell contract while the pigment is being retracted towards the nucleus. Pigment granules are found, in the adult, in other organs than branched connective-tissue cells, as in the substance of hairs, in the deeper cells of the rete Malpighii of the epidermis, and in those of the epithelium of the mucous membrane of mouth of some mammals, in the endothelium lining the posterior surface of the iris and processus ciliares, in the epithelium lining the external surface of the retina, &c. In the superficial parts of the true skin in man and some mammals there are to be met with migratory connective-tissue cells containing a smaller or greater amount of dark brown pigment granules : it is highly probable that these migrants carry it to the rete Malpighii of the epidermis; also in the skin of lower vertebrates (batrachian animals) migratory pigment- cells have been observed. PLATE X. Fig. I. drawn under a magnifying power of about 90; fig. III., under one of about 30; figs. II. IV. and V., about 350. Fig. I. From the omentum of cat, the blood-vessels of which had been injected with carmine-gelatin; it shows (a) minute artery, (v) minute vein ; these two vessels are embedded in a cord of fat-cells (6) richly supplied with a network of capillary blood- vessels. The fat-cells are not represented as such, but their size may be recognised in most places, the meshes of the network of capillary blood-vessels not being larger than a fat-cell. (r) Lymphatic nodules ; only the nuclei of their cells are represented ; they are richly supplied with capillary blood-vessels from the same artery and vein as the cord of fat- cells. These lymphatic nodules are here the precursor of fat-tissue.