ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 366 and mammals the nucleus belonging to a rod-fibre is, in the fresh state, and after many reagents, transversely striated (Henle, Krause, Ritter, and others), owing to its being apparently composed of some two or even three bands of a transparent hyaline substance alternating with two or three more) highly refractive discs. Their limiting membrane is indistinct. The nucleus of a cone-fibre is on the other hand limited by a distinct membrane, is larger and has a clear contents, and in this may be recognised, after certain reagents (spirit, chromic acid), a pale transparent honeycombed reticulum. In the retina of the frog there is also a very marked distinction between the nuclei of the rod- and those of the cone-fibres ; the latter are more spherical, larger, do not possess any distinct limiting membrane, and include a uniformed fine reticulum, while the former are slightly smaller, oval, and within a definite limiting membrane contain a reticulum coarser and generally more or less shrunk away from the membrane, besides being always placed close to the limitans externa. Each rod- and cone-fibre at the boundary of the next inner layer of the retina, viz, the outer granular layer, possesses a conical enlargement (M. Schultze), which is very much more conspicuous in the cone-fibres than in those of the rods ; very fine fibrils come off from this enlargement, and penetrate into the granular layer, where they are lost. According to Max Schultze, these fibrils are nerve-fibrils. According to Merkel each cone-fibre passes directly into the outer process of the cells of the inner nuclear layer (see below). All these elements of the outer nuclear layer, viz. the rod-fibres and their nuclei, the cone-fibres and their nuclei, are embedded in a homogeneous honeycombed membra- nous matrix, which includes also a good many fibrils (Max Schultze) and whose spaces are of exactly the size and shape of the above nuclei. This honeycomb is in connection with the radial fibres of Muller (see below), and represents in fact the terminal membranous expansion of the latter. The limitans externa above mentioned is the outer boundary layer of this honeycombed matrix. The rods and cones with their respective fibres and nuclei represent the membrana Jacobi of the authors, they are in fact epithelial cells, peculiarly transformed (M. Schultze), and hence may be considered as the sensory epithelium (Schwalbe) analogous to the sensory epithelium in the olfactory, acoustic and taste organ, and, according to M. Schultze, the above epithelial cells, are the real terminations of the nerves of the retina. All the layers of the retina internally to this sensory epithelium are developed, together with this latter, from the inner lamina of the optic cup. So that these layers, viz. the outer granular, the inner nuclear, and the inner granular layer, the ganglion-cells and the layer of nerve fibres, are comparable to a part of brain matter, modified in a