PERIVASCULAR LYMPHATICS. 169 outlines more sinuous (see Plate VI. fig. XIII.). It is to be borne in mind, however, that this latter condition may be met with also in the trunks, whose wall has become much shrunk. The size of the vessel is no distinguishing character, for in many organs we find capillaries of greater calibre than the trunks. In some localities we find one or the other blood-vessel completely ensheathed in a lymphatic capillary, perivascular lymphatic (Robin, His, Strieker, MacGellavry and others). 3. In all instances the lymphatic capillaries bear a definite relation to the tissue to which they belong, having their rootlets in this latter. It is this : the capillaries open into a system of lacunae connected with each other by finer or broader canals or clefts : this system, which is the lymph-canalicular system of v. Recklinghausen, is moulded, as it were, in an albuminous, semifluid interstitial substance, and represents, as has been mentioned on former occasions (Chapter IV.), the spaces containing the connective-tissue corpuscles, these forming, as it were, an endotheloid lining for it. While, therefore, the cavity of the capillary lymphatic is in a free communication with the lymph-canalicular system, its endothelial wall is continuous with the connective-tissue corpuscles contained in the former (Kolliker, v. Recklinghausen, Klein). Such we find the relation of the lymphatic capillaries to the surrounding tissue in the lung, serous and synovial mem- branes and membranes of the brain and cord. In some places, such as cornea, cartilage, white and grey matter of the brain and cord, the lymph-canalicular system is the chief and to a great extent the sole representative of the lymphatics. The nature of the lymph-canalicular system differs, however, considerably in dif- ferent organs, being dependent on the nature and arrangement of the matrix. The most typical and regular form of it we meet with in the cornea, lung, serous membranes and bone, being uniformly branched and anastomosing lacunae, lined by the corresponding corneal corpuscles, branched connective-tissue cells, or bone corpuscles respectively. In tendon, fascia and aponeurosis, owing to the peculiar arrangement of the connective- tissue bundles (see Chapter IV.), it consists of straight and continuous clefts and channels situated between groups of connective-tissue bundles ; in striped and unstriped muscle, and nerves, there are likewise long and straight clefts and spaces extending between the individual fibres. In the skin and mucous membranes and similar masses of ordinary fibrous-con- nective tissue the lymph-rootlets are of a very irregular nature, viz. spaces left between groups or trabeculae of bundles crossing each other in a complex manner, interfascicular spaces. As has been mentioned on a former occasion, the connective-tissue corpuscles are applied to the surface of the trabeculae so as to be at the same time the lining cells of those spaces. In the loose subcutaneous and submucous tissue there are all gradations