350 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. thick and thin ones, arranged as a network; this is in many instances so close that more or less complete elastic membranes (fenestrated membranes) are hereby formed (Henle, Schwalbe). Next the cornea and next the insertion of the ciliary muscle the fibres assume a special annular direction as the anterior and posterior limiting ring of Schwalbe. The trabeculae and lamellae are embedded or ensheathed in a more or less hyaline elastic substance which is a direct continuation of the membrana Descemeti ; their free surface is covered with a layer of flattened polyhedral endothelial cells directly continuous on the one hand with the endothelium of the membrana Descemeti, and on the other with a similar layer of cells covering the anterior surface of the iris. The connection of the ligamentum pectinatum with the sclerotic is also a very inti- mate one, since the elastic fibrils between the connective tissue trabeculae around the canal of Schlemm pass directly into those of the former. The continuity of the ligamentum pectinatum with the iris, processus ciliares and mus- culus ciliaris, is effected in this way: The elastic trabeculae and lamellae of the spongy substance of the ligamentum pectinatum pass directly into the tissue at the root of the iris, hereby they retain their arrangement as a spongy substance ; in some mammals the spaces are here very considerable and are called the spaces of Fontana. The membrana Descemeti, which, as we have mentioned above, is continued over the ligamentum pectinatum, passes directly into the delicate basement membrane of the anterior surface of the iris. The continuity of the endothelium has been mentioned above. From the matrix of the iris and processus ciliares, especially the former, tra- beculae of connective-tissue bundles with elastic fibres pass into the matrix of the ligamentum pectinatum ; these trabeculae, the iris-processes of Rollett, are also covered with a continuation of the membrana Descemeti (Konigstein, Briggs) and are very con- spicuous in pigmented eyes both in man and mammals, owing to the branched connective-tissue cells contained between their bundles being pigmented. The elastic tendons of the meridional portion of the ciliary muscle are continued into the elastic trabeculae and lamellae of the ligamentum pectinatum.