ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 368 into the next following inner granular layer, through which, according to Retzius and Schwalbe, it passes undivided. In the macula lutea the inner processes of these cells have not a radial direction, as in all other parts of the retina, but run a more oblique course (M. Schultze, H. Muller, Hulke and others). These cells are now considered by most observers to be bipolar ganglion cells (M. Schultze, Merkel, Schwalbe). According to Merkel they are of two different kinds: those connected with the cone-fibres and those connected with the rod- fibres. The former possess according to Merkel an unbranched, the latter a branched outer process. But in this latter statement he is contradicted by Kuhnt, according to whom all outer processes of the cells of the inner nuclear layer are branched. Kuhnt however confirms Merkel in the observation that they are connected either with the rod-fibres or with the cone-fibres. Also Gunn saw a connection of the cone-fibres with the outer processes of some of these cells. c) At the inner boundary of the inner nuclei is a layer of nucleated cells (Vintschgau); they are flattened and parallel to surface and are connected with one another in a network. These cells are particularly well shown, forming almost a separate layer, in the young retina both of man and mammals. The matrix of the inner nuclear layer is, just like that of the outer nuclear layer, a honeycomb of membranes and fibrils, intimately connected with the sides of the radial or Muller’s fibres. The holes and channels of the matrix are occupied by the above bipolar ganglion cells. 7. The Inner Granular or Molecular Layer. This layer is always much thicker than the outer granular layer, with which it coin- cides in structure, viz. being a dense reticulum of very fine fibrils (M. Schultze, Kolliker, Manz and others). In birds and amphibia this layer appears stratified, owing to the reticulum being much denser in some horizontal planes than in those between (M. Schultze). Into this reticulum pass from inwards the processes of the ganglion cells and through it penetrate in a radial direction Muller’s fibres ; according to some (Max Schultze) they give off to it lateral branchlets, while others (Retzius, Schwalbe, Hoff- mann, Emery) deny such a connection (see below). The processes of the gan- glion cells may be traced into the inner parts of the granular layer for a longer or shorter distance in a radial, oblique, or even horizontal manner, branching on this way and ultimately altogether losing themselves in the reticulum. As mentioned above, the varicose inner processes of the bipolar ganglion cells of the inner nuclear layer