ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 376 1. Proximal part of the coiled tube in longitudinal, 2. The same in transverse section. 3. Distal part cut longitudinally. 4. The same cut transversely. The muscular cells inside the membrana propria are not represented with sufficient distinctness. 5. Fat-cells. Fig. IV. Coiled tube of sweat gland in section, from the ear-lobe of pig. Magni- fying power about 300. 1. A hair-follicle in transverse section. This is cut at the papilla, which with its capillary blood-vessels is seen in the centre ; it is surrounded by the cells—indicated by its nuclei—of the bulb of the hair. Then follows a thick layer of nuclei indicative of the cells of the external root-sheath, and finally the inner coat of the hair-sac. Between the bulb of the hair and the external root-sheath is seen at one side a rudiment of the inner root-sheath in the form of a layer of flattened cells. 2 and 3. The coiled tube in transverse and oblique section. The layer of un- striped muscle cells between the lining epithelium and the membrana propria is well shown. Between the coils of the tube is fibrous connective tissue with many capillary blood-vessels. Fig. V. From a vertical section through the scalp of a fully developed human embryo, showing a papillary hair and its root-sheaths. The figure comprises the region of the neck, but not that of the mouth of the hair-follicle. Magnifying power about 300. 1. The substance of the hair. 2. The inner root-sheath. Between 1 and 2 the cuticle of the hair. 3. The layers of the outer root-sheath. 4. The rudiment of the sebaceous gland. 5. The papilla, its cells indicated by their nuclei. 6. The bulb of the hair; the outlines of its polyhedral cells are marked by brown pigment granules embedded in the interstitial cement-substance. As the cells of the bulb elongate to form the cells of the hair substance, also the configuration of the inter- cellular pigmented cement-substance alters accordingly. 7. The transverse layer of unstriped muscle cells of the hair-sac, indicated here by their nuclei.