266 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. n. Neck of the Malpighian corpuscle. c. Convoluted tubules cut in various directions. The rodlike structures in the substance of the polyhedral epithelial cells is well shown. b. The irregular tubule, io in diagram i of the preceding Plate. d. e. and f belong to the medullary ray. d. Collecting tube (13). e. Spiral tube (4). f. Narrow section of the ascending limb (9). The nature of the lining epithelium and its differences in these various tubes is well marked ; see the text of this chapter. Fig. II. From a vertical section through the same kidney as in fig I., showing the tubes of Henle’s loops at the point of transition from the papillary part into the boundary layer. Magnifying power about 300. a. The first thick part of the ascending limb (7 of diagram 1 of the preceding Plate) at the point of demarcation of the papillary part and the boundary layer. b. and c. The transparent thin tubules of Henle’s loops. Fig. 111. From a vertical section through the cortex and boundary layer of the kidney of the dog ; showing the blood-vessels injected with Berlin blue. Low magnifying power. a. Peripheral subscapsular part of the cortex. b. Cortex, showing the glomeruli of Malpighian corpuscles, the dense network of capillaries of the labyrinth and of the medullary rays. The thin branches of the large vessels are the interlobular arteries, the thick ones the interlobular veins. c. Boundary layer showing the bundles of arteriolse rectse and venae rectae; see diagram 3 of preceding Plate; between these bundles are seen the capillaries, forming a network with elongated meshes around the urinary tubules. Fig. IV. From a horizontal section through the cortex of the human kidney, show- ing the honey-combed transparent matrix in which the urinary tubules and the capillary blood-vessels are embedded; a few branched nucleated connective cells are seen in it. The large cavities correspond each to a transverse section of a urinary tubule, whose epithelium, except in one tube, has been removed by accident. The two small holes, at the side of the tubule whose epithelium is still present, are transverse sections of capillary blood-vessels. Magnifying power about 400. Fig. V. From a vertical section through the same kidney as in fig. I. Magnifying power about 300. a. Capsule of the kidney. b. Convoluted tubules cut in different directions. c. Irregular tubule (10).