STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDERMIS. 309 each of them contains a rudiment of a staff-shaped or flattened nucleus. In many places longitudinal rows of what at first appear as bright granules can be distinguished in this stratum. These granules are, however, minute air-cavities between the layers of scales. After becoming confluent into clefts, a separation of these layers is effected, and a condi- tion is produced such as is found in the superficial section of the stratum corneum, viz. the layers of scales are more or less separated from one another by longer or shorter clefts. The stratum Malpighii rests on the papillary layer of the corium, and is sunk in between the papillae as the interpapillary processes; the length of these varies in direct proportion to the height, the breadth in an inverse proportion to the closeness of position of the papillae. The constitution of the interpapillary processes differs from the other part of the stratum Malpighii in the following points : the vertical diameter, i.e. the thickness, of the stratum Malpighii is of course greater in the interpapillary processes than between them. This increase in thickness is due to the presence of a greater number of layers of what were previously described as the middle layers of polyhedral cells, with spherical nuclei; the deepest cells of the interpapillary processes are placed vertically on the sides of the papillae of the corium and the grooves or pits between them ; those of the rest of the stratum Malpighii rest on the summits of the papillae. Occasionally the cells of the middle layers of the interpapillary processes are more or less elongated in a direction vertical to the surface; hence they appear spindle-shaped, and their nuclei are then oval; under these circumstances also the cells of the deepest layers are much drawn out, and are very thin, and spindle-shaped (Klein). Such a condition is due to the softness of the epithelial cells, and to their being consequently easily brought into those shapes by the shrinking of the skin during hardening or otherwise. The surface of the stratum Malpighii, including the stratum granulosum, pos- sesses a wavy outline where the stratum corneum and the stratum lucidum are elevated into permanent ridges with corresponding furrows between, as in the palm of the hand and on the fingers ; the breadth of the ridges is here about that of two or three papillae with their corresponding interpapillary processes taken together. The stratum Malpighii is firmly fixed on the surface of the corium by an albumi- nous cement identical with that which is found between the epithelial cells. The lower or deeper surface of the epithelial cells, that is the one resting on the corium, is in well-prepared specimens not quite flat, but indentated, and toothed; when, as in the above-named condition of shrinking, the cells of the deeper layers are elongated to an abnormal extent, the appearance is produced as if they were continued by fine filamentous processes into the tissue of the papillae. The epithelial cells themselves are, however, not continued into the tissue of the papillae; only the albuminous inter-