ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. 2 in no instance a limiting membrane, and are composed of a transparent jelly-like substance, called ‘ protoplasm.’ This substance appears more or less distinctly granular ; but, on more careful examination, and under suitable conditions (see below), it can be shown that it is composed of a very minute network of fibrils (Heitzmann). This network, which we shall know as the intracellular network, contains in its nodes minute dots— and these produce the granular appearance—which are, however, due to fibrils seen in optical section. In the meshes of the network is contained a hyaline interstitial substance. The accompanying woodcut i shows these relations, and also that the kernel or nucleus (in this instance there are two) contains a similar network— intranuclear network—which is in direct connection with the intra- cellular network. But there are in every blood some colourless corpuscles that contain in the meshes of the intracellular network coarse bright particles, real granules ; and these corpuscles represent granular corpuscles par excellence. In newt’s blood, and also in human blood, they are often seen in considerable numbers. When examined in the fresh state, especially under the influence of heat, e.g. on the warm stage, but without the addition of any fluid reagent, the colourless corpuscles undergo changes of shape, and in consequence of these also changes of place, just like amoebae, and hence the designation of amoeboid movement and amoeboid corpuscles. These changes are due to the contractility of the intracellular network. In the best examples of human colourless blood-corpuscles examined fresh, without any reagent, these changes are sufficiently distinct, even to the unexperienced eye, but on applying heat (about blood heat), these movements become very pronounced in most of the colourless corpuscles. PLATE I. Figs. I. II. III. IV. V. VI. and VII. represent colourless corpuscles while undergoing changes of *shape and place ; drawn under a magnifying power of about 400 diameters. Fig. I. A colourless corpuscle of human blood as observed on the warm stage, in different stages of movement. (The different stages follow each other in this, and the following figures, from left to right.) The movement consists in the protrusioh of a hyaline film. This is withdrawn, and another is protruded; in the next moment thiS is reduced to a very minute filamentous process, whereas, on the opposite side, a new broad process makes its appearance. This alone is left in the next stage.