333 DISTRIBUTION OF NERVES IN THE SKIN. arrived close to the stratum lucidum are said to terminate with a minute swelling, either without previously branching or after doing so, and after running for a short distance in a horizontal direction : according to Eberth, in the skin in general, Eimer and Mojsisovics for the snout of the mole, Palladino for the lips of the horse. The branched corpuscles in the stratum Malpighii, stated by Langerhans to be terminal organs of the nerve fibres, have not this character (Eberth, Eimer, Palladino), but, as we mentioned on former occasions, belong to the lymph-canalicular system of the stratum Malpighii. In some localities (such as the hand, foot, penis, &c.), medullated nerve fibres come off from the nerve branches of the subcutaneous tissue, and terminate each in a Pacinian corpuscle. These generally occur in small groups and are situated either in the same layer as the coiled tube of the sweat glands, or deeper among the adipose tissue. Their structure in no way differs from that described of these organs in general in Chapter XVIII. p. 127. Besides these endings, medullated nerve fibres may also be traced into the papillae containing a tactile or Meissner’s corpuscle, as in the skin of the hand, foot and glans penis, and the lips of the mouth of man and the anthropoid apes. They are situated in papillae with or without capillary blood-vessels, more often in those that are nearer to the sweat gland duct than in those farther away (Stewart). They are single, or occasionally but rarely double (Thin). Each tactile corpuscle is an oblong, oval, or curved body, enclosed in a dense con* nective-tissue capsule, and including according to its size a larger or smaller number of nucleated transparent cells flattened against one another and placed transversely to the long diameter of the corpuscle. A medullated nerve fibre enclosed in a thick perineural or Henle’s sheath (see Chapter XVIII.) approaches the corpuscle, the sheath of the former passes into that of the later, while the medullated nerve fibre enters the corpuscle, and, ascending towards its apex, entwines it twice to thrice. Its mode of termination is not definitely ascertained. Langerhans describes special minute budlike structures situated amongst the above nucleated cells which he considers as the termination of the nerve fibre. But according to Merkel, the tactile corpuscle is merely an aggregation of ‘touch-cells’ (see p. 130) ; he describes also in other parts of the human skin, especially in that of the snout of the pig, and in the small tactile hairs of the snout of the pig (Died), single and compound Merkel’s end bulbs. (See pp. 130, 131.) The hair follicle is supplied with fine nerves, which have been specially investigated by Schobel, Burkart, Palladino, and especially Jobert and Bonnet. According to Jobert fine medullated nerve fibres, having run in a circular direction in the outer coat of the hair-sac, change into a longitudinal direction and become at the same time 3 c 2