107 WHITE MATTER OF BRAIN. possesses the same structure. The epithelium lining the ventricles is likewise a layer of columnar ciliated epithelial cells. B) The white matter is distributed in the brain in the shape of large tracts of medullated nerve fibres, connecting the grey matter of different systems, or collected in the roots of the cerebral nerves. These various tracts of nerve fibres in their special significance will be briefly mentioned presently. A detailed description of the dis- tribution of both, white and grey matter, will not be entered into here, since this is not so much a subject of Histology as of Anatomy. The reader will find in Strickers’ ‘ Handbook’ an exhaustive treatise by Meynert, the great authority on this subject. The nerve fibres of the white matter are, like those of the spinal cord, medullated, and without any sheath of Schwann. They vary greatly in size, some being broad, others of middle size, and many others very fine. They present themselves often in the shape of varicose fibres, that is : possessed of more or less regular swellings, which, as has been pointed out previously, are not due to a corresponding thickening of the medullary sheath, but to a local accumulation of fluid between this and the axis cylinder. Accord- ing to Boll there occur small multipolar ganglion cells between the nerve fibres of the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres. The white matter of the cerebral hemispheres is composed of the following masses of nerve fibres : (a) nerve fibres connecting the grey matter of the hemispheres with the large cerebral ganglia ; these fibres form the corona radiata, having a pre-eminently radiating direction, (b) There are masses of nerve fibres joining identical parts of the hemispheres of the two sides, as corpus callosum and anterior white commissure. (e) The association systems: these are fibres, more or less arcuate, on the inner surface of the cortex joining different parts of the hemispheres of the same side. (d) Special tracts of nerve fibres connecting the hemispheres with the cerebellum ; they branch off from the corona radiata, pass beneath the thalamus opticus and corpus quadrigeminum into the tegmentum cruris, and after a total crossing in the processus cerebelli ad corpus quadrigeminum enter the cerebellum. Meynert distinguishes the first section of the nervous conduction, viz. that between the grey matter of the cerebrum and the large cerebral ganglia, as the projection system of the jirst order. As projection system of the second order he considers the tracts of nerve fibres passing between the cerebral ganglia and the central grey matter lining the ventricles, viz. motor fibres passing through the crus cerebri and pons into the white matter of the cord. But the crus cerebri contains also sensory fibres ; these pass from the s