76 ATLAS OF HISTOLOGY. In the fresh and living state they are prismatic corpuscles arranged side by side; those forming one disc are in immediate contact with one another, and being all of the same optical refractive power, no differentiation can be perceived, and the disc appears there- fore quite homogeneous. But when, either spontaneously during life, or after death and reagents, the sarcous elements shrink (coagulate), they become separated from one another, and a transparent interstitial fluid substance, pressed out from the sarcous elements (Engelmann), is now seen occupying the crevices between them. The above clear bright lines correspond to this substance. They contain, in many cases rows of granules (Henle, Kolliker). The interstitial substance corresponds in appearance and chemical respects to the interstitial transverse disc above mentioned, and both represent the albu- minous substance discovered by Kuhne, and called by him myosin. A longitudinal series of sarcous elements (one abreast) represents a so-called primitive fibril. A muscle fibre may therefore be regarded as composed either of transverse discs or of longitu- dinal fibrils, according to whether we look upon the sarcous elements as being ar- ranged sideways or endways. Certain reagents possess the property of bringing out more prominently the one or the other arrangement. Thus muscle treated with alcohol shows generally the arrangement of the sarcous elements into fibrils more strikingly than in transverse discs, whereas the reverse is the case with hydrochloric acid. The length of the sarcous elements, or what amounts to the same, the length of a contractile disc, or the breadth of the striation, varies considerably in different animals and also in different muscles of the same animal; it is much greater in insects than in vertebrates. Equally variable in thickness is the interstitial disc. The thickness of the individual muscle fibres is subject to great differences in different animals and in the muscles of one and the same animal, varying between the fine fibril of the thorax muscle of hydrophylus piceus, representing almost a single row of sarcous elements, to the tremendous muscle fibre of the claw of a lobster. When viewing a transverse section through fresh and living muscle, the muscle substance appears at first homogeneous and of a dim aspect; gradually there appear shorter or longer lines of a clear bright substance ; these anastomose, and are so arranged that the muscle substance seems divided into relatively large polygonal areas. The clear lines are in some places of some muscle fibres greatly enlarged, owing to the presence in them of a nucleated cell, or muscle corpuscle (see below). The numbers of clear lines gradually increase, and consequently the size of these areas decreases, until we arrive at a permanent subdivision of the transverse section into small polygonal areas of dim substance, each corresponding to one sarcous element prism viewed endwise (Cohn- heim’s fields); the clear lines are the interstitial substance, mentioned above as gradually appearing between the sarcous elements. The individual sarcous elements do not,