SURGICAL HANDBOOK.GRIFFIN'S REFERENCE POCKET-BOOKS. EUisantly Bound in Leather, zuiih Gill Edges and Jiuunded Corners. A MEDICAL HANDBOOK. By K. s. Aitchisox, M.I! V USE .si°e7e-Uher™'6d^''''^ With Illustrations. Pocket "Such a work, focussing all that is essential, is reallv necessar\- . . . Well adapted lor RE.\DY REFERENCE."—/Ac/.a?/fc^' THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN (A Clinical Handbook). By Geo. Elder. M.D., F.R.C.P.(Ed.), andj. S. Fowler, M.Ii. F K CP (F.D.) Clmical lutor.s. Ro^^al Infirmar}', Edinburgh; Phvsicians for Out-Patients, Leith Hospital. With Illustrations. los. 6d. "May be cordially recommended."-£rf,Hj?<r.fA Medical Joutnal. THE SURGEON'S POCKET-BOOK. By Surg. Major Portfr aud Bngade-Surgeon C. H. Y. Godwin, late Prof of Military Surgery Army Medical School. With Illustrations. Fourth Editi6n. 8s. 6d.' "An INVALUABLE GviTi-E."—The Lancet. HYGIENE (A Handbook of). By Lt.-Colonel A. M Divii s K.A M.C., D.P.H.(Camb.), late Assistant-Professor of Hygiene \rrav' Medical School. Over 600 pages. With Illustrations Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged, with important Kew Appendix. Ss. 6d. net. ^ "This ADMIRABLE handbook . . . gives FULL information in the smallest possible hulk."—Edinbtiro/i Medical Journal. OUTLINES OF BACTERIOLOGY (On the Basis of the Precis de Microbie). By Dr. L. H. Thoinot and E. J. Masselin Translated and adapted for English use, with additions by Wm St' Clair Symmers, M.B.(Aberd.), late Professor of Patholog^• and Bac- teriology, Govt. Medical .School, Cairo. With Illustrations (some coloured). los. 6d. MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND TOXICOLOGY. For the use of Students and Praclitiouers. By AY'illiam \ Brend M.A.(Cantab.), M.B., B.Sc.(Loud.), Barrister-at-Law. ' ' PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY (Outlines of). By Wm. Stirling, M.D., Sc.D., Professor in the \'ictoria University and Owens College, ■ Manchester. With 289 illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised and Re-written. 15s. net. " The best student's book on the subject."—77/f Lance/. PRACTICAL PHARMACY AND DISPENSING. Bv w. Eli-.okne, B.A., F.L.S., F.C.S., Demonstrator of Materia Medica aud Teacher of Pharmacy at University College, London; Pharmacist to University College Hospital. 8s. 6'd. "A work .admirably .\d.\i'ted to students' requirements."—£(7.«• burgh Medii al Jojirnal. FOODS AND DIETARIES: A Manual 01 Clinical Dietetics. By Robert W. Buknet, M.D., F.R.C.P., Senior Plivsiciaiu Great Northern Central Hospital. Fourth Edition, Revised'. 4s. "A RELLVBLE GUIDE. UNIFORMLY JDDICIODS."—British Medical Journal. A full Descriptive Catalogue sent Post Free on Application. tONDON: CHARI<ES GRIFFIN & CO., LTD., EXETER ST., STR-\ND.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK: FOR THE USE OF FRANCIS M. CAIRO, Assistant Surgeon, Royal CHARLES W. CATHCART, M.B., F.R.C.S. (Eng. & Ed.), Surgeon, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. ■oaitb perg IRumerous illustrations, THIRTEENTH EDITION. LONDON: CHARLES GRIFFIN & COMPANY, LIMITED; EXETER STREET, STRAND. 1905. [Ali RighU Jieserved.lPREFACE TO THE THIRTEENTH EDITION. As it has been found necessary to make numerous additions to the text in preparing this Edition, the Authors have made room partly by omitting subject matter now obsolete, and partly by striking out some of the less important diagrams. Edinburgh, September, 1905.PREFACE TO FIRST AND SECOND EDITIONS. In complying with the wish of the Publishers to write the foUowing Manual, the Authors have endeavoured to make it as practical, and as thoroughly in keeping with modern surgical methods, as possible. They hope that it may prove a convenient and ready help to those engaged in active surgical work. The illustrations have been mainly taken from drawings from nature by W. Scott, M.B.; figures 5, 7, 8, 94, 122, 123, 129, 130, 133, are from Porter's "Surgeon's Pocket-Book," and figures 178-184 from Landois and Stirling's "Text- Book of Physiology." Their best thanks are due to Professor Tait, who has kindly revised the chapter on Electricity, and to J. H. A. Laing, M.B., who has given valuable assistance in preparing the drawings illustrating Massage. In conclusion, there only remains to say, that, while both Authors share the responsibility of the whole book, each has chosen certain departments. Thus, F. M. Caird has undertaken Chapters III., IV., XL, to XVII. in- clusive, and XXVIII., and G W. Cathcart the remainder Edinburgh, March, 1889.CONTENTS. CHAPTER 1. CASE-TAKING. Impoitance of accurate " Case-taking "-How to record a case- OutUne of a systematic plan—Application CHAPTER II. ON THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS BEFOEJl AND AFTER OPERATION. r. Treatment before Operation—Constitutional, Local, Special -Success of operation greatly dependent on state of patient's ■general health." n. Treatment after Operation—Consti- tutional. Local. Special-(3.) After operations about the Rectum and Anus, on the Genito-Urinary Tract, after Ovario tomy, &c.; {*.) after operations about the Mouth and Jaws- Difficulties in administering food: how to meet them — Nutrient Enemala—General Hints on nourishment. . CHAPTER IIL ANESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. The Coi.dition suitable for Operation—Importance of Personal Experience in the Administration of Anaesthetics—(i) Chloro- form: Mode of Administration—Dangers and Cautions—Re- spiratory and Cardiac Complications: how to meet them— (2) Ether:Administration of (a.) by the "Open." (6.) by the "Closed," Method—(3) Cocaine—Caution 1—(4) Method of pro- ducing Local Insensibility by Extreme Cold, ....CONTENTS. viii CHAPTER IV. ■ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. Antiseptic Treatment and the Germ Theory—A. General Aatl- septic Principles and Practice — Antiseptic Matenals — Isolation—Cautions necessary in the use of .Antiseptics— Various Antiseptics and their Relative Advantages: Carbolic Acid, Corrosive Sublimate, Iodoform, Boracic Acid, Chloride of Zinc, &c., &c.—Use of Antiseptics during Operation—Anti- septic Ligatures, Dressings, and Strapping so CHAPTER V. ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT {Continued), B. Special Wound-Treatment. — Gun-shot, Lacerated, and Punctured Wounds—Divided Tendons—Nerve Injuries—Bums and Scalds—Ulcers—Skin Grafting—Sinuses—Erysipelas— Whitlow—Blisters . . • . 29 CHAPTER VI ARREST OP HEMORRHAGE. General Principles of the Arrest of Haemorrhage— " Natural" and "Artificial" Arrest—A. Primary Hsemorrhage—Tem- porary Closure of Bleeding Vessels by the Tourniquet, Elastic Bandage, or Elastic Band—" Bloodless" Method of Operating —Various Applications of the Tourniquet—Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels by (i) Ligatures; (2) Torsion; (3) Acu- pressure; (4) Pressure; (5) Use of Heat and Cold, Cautery, Styptics, &c.—B. Secondary HsBmorrhage—C. Reactionary HsBmorrhage, 39 CHAPTER VII. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE (Continued). Treatment of Bleeding from Special Parts.—Bone; Fibrous Textures; Deep Cavities—From the Nose; Rectum ; after Lithotomy; from Varicose Veins; the Prostate; the Bladder;CONTENTS. « rAGB the Kidney; the Mouth; the Tonsil; the Palmar Arch- Hxmophilia-Digital Compression of the Main Arteries- Transfusion-(a.) Of Water or Saline Solution—.Of 60 Blood, CHAPTER VIII. SHOCK AND -WOUND-FEVER. Shock—Symptoms and Treatment—Syncope—Wound-Fever— Pulse and Temperature Indications—Treatment—Inflamma- tion—Treatment by Antiseptic Poultices, by Blood-letting and by Counter-irritation, CHAPTER IX. EMERGENCY CASES. i Treatment of Surgical Emergency Cases—(i) Retention of Urine (from Stricture of Urethra; Enlarged Prostate; Spasm of Constrictor; Acute Inflammation of the Prostate; Urethral Calculus)—{2) Possible Rupture of the Urethrals) Possible Rupture of the Bladder—(4) Possible Injury of the Intestines— (5) Strangulated Hernia—(6) Severe Compound Fractures and Dislocations—{7) Injuries to the Eye—(8) Lodgment of Needles under the Skin—{9) Foreign Body in the Nostril—{10) in the Ear—{11) Obstruction to Respiration (from Swelling of the Fauces; Croup, or Diphtheria; Foreign Body in the Air- passages, Pharynx, or (Esophagus)—^r/i'ftja/ Respiration— (12) Treatment of the Apparently Drowned—(13) Severe Head Injuries—(14) Cut-throat, 73 CHAPTER X. EMERGENCY CASES {Continued). B. Cases of Poisoning—Poisons most frequently selected— Classification of Poisons—" Emergency" Apparatus: the Stomach-Pump and its Syphon Substitute—General Treat- ment—Treatment for Special Poisons—Treatment for Poisons most commonly taken, ggCONTENTS. X CHAPTER XI. TRACHEOTOMY. MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. A. Traciieotomy.—Requisites for the Operation—The "High"'**^ Operation—The "Low" Operation—Caution I—After-Treal- ment—Intubation of the Larynx. B. Minor Surgical Operations.—(i) Removal of tne Tonsils—(2) Amputation of the Fingers or Toes—(3) Treat- ment of In-growing Toe-nail—(4) Injection of Spina Bifida— (5) Tapping a Hydrocele—(6) Paracentesis Abdominis—(7) Paracentesis Thoracis—Use of the Aspirator—(8) Air in Veins —(9) Circumcision—(10) Phymosis—(11) Paraphymosis, . 97 CHAPTER XII. ON BANDAGING. Uses of Bandaging—The Roller Bandage—Rules for Bandaging —Typical Cases: How to Bandage (a.) the Foot; [b.) the Hand—Cautions to be observed in Bandaging—The "Spica" Bandage for (i) the Heel—(2) Knee-joint—(3) Elbow—(4) Groin ("Ascending" Spica)—(5) in Femoral Hernia ("Descending" Spica)—(6) Shoulder—(7) Double Spica of the Groin—(8-9) Single and Double of the Mamma—(10) The Head (how to cover (a.) the Forepart; (3.) the Posterior Segment; (c.) the whole Scalp)—(11) How to Bandage the Fingers, . - . no CHAPTER XIII. ON BANDAGING (Continued). Looped Bandages—(1) For the Heel—(2) Looped and Reversed Bandage for Varicose Veins—(3) Bandage for use after Ex- cision of the Breast—(4) For the Perinasum—"Lithotomy" Position—The "Clove Hitch:" How to make it — The T-Bandage—The Four-Tailed—The Many-Tailed Bandage —The Triangular Handkerchief—The Square Handkerchief —The Suspensory Bandage, &c 121CONTENTS. CHAPTER XIV. ON FRACTURES. rAGB A. Fractures In General.—Diagnosis—Importance of knowing the History of an Injury—Examination of the Injury—Setting of the Fracture — Essentials of Treatment — Prognosis— Materials for Splints—Passive Motion—Union and Non- Union—"Greenstick" Fracture—" Dislocation " and " Frac- tin^," distinction between. B. Special Fractures of the Upper Extremity.—Treat- ment of Fracture of (i) the Clavicle; {2) of the Body of the Scapula ; (3) of the Humerus ; (4) of the Forearm ; (5) of the Olecranon; (6) of the Radius above the Wrist (CoUes' Frac- ture); {7) of the Metacarpals and Phalanges, . . . • 13J CHAPTER XV. ON FRACTURES {Continued). C. Special Fractures of the Lower Extremity.-General Treat- ment—Prevention of Bed-Sores—Application of Extension— Treatment of Fracture (i) of the Femur—in Children—(2) of the Shaft of the Femur—(3) of the Patella—(4) of both Bones of the Leg—Various Forms of Splint: Lateral, Dupuytren's, Macintyre's, &c.—General Remarks, 14S CHAPTER XVI. ON FRACTURES {Continued). D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis.—(i) Spinal In- juries— Their Gravity — Immediate Treatment — Attendant Dangers — (2) Broken Ribs — (3) Fractures of the Pelvis— Possible Complications. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones.—(1) Scalp Wounds—(a.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures —"Concussion" and "Compression"—{b.) Fractures of the Base of the Skull—(2) Fractures of the Facial Bones—[a.) of the Nasal Bones—(b.) of the Upper Jaw—(c) of the Lower Jaw—Use of Antiseptics i5oxii CONTENTS. CHAPTER XVII. DISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AND BRUISES. p Diagnosis and General Treatment—Special Treatment for Dis- location of the Clavicle—Shoulder—Lower Jaw—Elbow— Wrist-joint—Thumb—Hip-joint-Patella—Knee, Ankle, or Astragalus—Cautions necessary in old-standing Cases—Treat- ment of Sprains and Bruises, ... , . CHAPTER XVIII. EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES AND CIVIL AMBULANCE-WORK. Extemporary Appliances in Civil Life—Accidents—Fractures- Extemporary Splints—How to lift and carry an Injured Person —Extemporary Stretchers and Slings—Bleeding Wounds- Domestic Antiseptics available—Bleeding from an Artery— ' Extemporary Tourniquet—Rules for Bearers of the Wounded —Formation of Ambulance Classes—Syllabus of Ambulance Lectures CHAPTER XIX. MASSAGE. Utility of Massage—Physiological Eflfects produced by it—Objects aimed at in the Use of Massage—Movements employed : (a) " Stabile" (Pressing, Hacking, Thrusting, Tapping, Pinching) —[b) "Labile" (Stroking, Kneading, Rubbing)—Time to be occupied at each Sitting-The Effleurage-Pitrhsage-Effleurage Scqnence—Surgical Cases in which Massage will be Beneficial — Caution CHAPTER XX. SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. Various Forms of Electricity Employed-Mode of Producing the Electrical Current-The "Galvanic," and the "Faradic" Current —Electro-Diagno-^is-Electro-Therapeutics —CautionCONTENTS. xm PAGE —Selection of Current—Duration of the Application—Motor Points—Mode of Application—Electrolysis—The Galvano- Cautery CHAPTER XXI. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. Remedial effects of absolute Rest—Local Sources of Irritation obviated by Rest-General Principles of Treatment by Fi.xation, E.xtension, and Venous Congestion—Treatment of Cold or Tubercular Abscess-(A.) Treatment of Special Joints.- (i) The Hip-joint-(2) Knee-joint-(3) Ankle-and Tarsal-joints —(4) Shoulder—(5) Elbow-joint i97 CHAPTER XXII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS {Continued). B. Tlie Splnai Column.—General Treatment—Caution 1—Artificial Supports in Spinal Disease—(1) Methods for ensuring Rigidity and Support to the Spine—The Plaster-jacket—(a.) Objections to its use considered—(iJ.) Materials for making the Jacket— (e.) Methods of Application—(2) Methods of ensuring Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries—The "Jury-mast"— Pneumatic and other Special Collars, &c., .... 215 CHAPTER XXIII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS (Continued). C. Treatment of Joints after Excision.—(i) The Hip-joint—(2) Knee-joint—(3) Ankle-joint—(4) Shoulder-joint—(5) Elbow- joint—(6) Wrist-joint D. Various Forms of Fixed Ap- paratus.—Applications and uses of Plaster of Paris—Various Splints (Watson's, The Bavarian, Croft's, &c., &c.)—Various Bandages (Surch, Water-glass, Paraffin, &c., &c.)—How to finish the Surface of Fixed Bandages, 231CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXIV. THE UKINE. PACI Importance of a knowledge of the state of the Urine in Surgical Cases—A. General Conditions to be Noted.—Quantity of Urine, Pain associated with Micturition, Odour, Colour, Transparency, Reactions, and Specific Gravity of Urine. B. Presence of Abnormal Substances In Solution.— Albumen; Bile; Sugar; Blood; Pus—Urinary Deposits. C. Examination of tbe Urine.—Preliminary—For Abnor- mal Substances—For Deposits, 237 CHAPTER XXV. THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. Principle and Description of the Syphon and Water-head Ap- paratus in Surgical Treatment — Various Applications — Douches, Vaginal, Nasal, &-c.—Syringing the Ear—Washing out the Stomach and Bladder — Thread-Syphons — Syphon Pump — Adaptable Funnel for Waste Fluids — Tying in a Catheter 257 CHAPTER XXVI. TRUSSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. A. Trusses,—Various Forms—For Adults—For Children. B. Arti- ficial Limbs.—" Bearing" Points after Amputation—Sites for Amputation most suitable for the adaptation of Artificial Substitutes—Artificial Limbs, their Nature and Mechanism— General Hints, sdi CHAPTER XXVII. PLASTER-CASTING. Use of Plaster-Casting to the Surgeon—How to prepare tHe Plaster—How to take the Mould—How to make the Cast— How to remove the Cast from the Mould—Casting in Gelatine and Glycerine, 269CONTENTS. XV CHAPTER XXVIII. POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. PAGE Preliminaries—Special Examination: the Head—Neck and Ihora.f —Heart and Lungs—Abdomen—Spinal Cord, . . . 275 APPENDIX. A. Ambulant Treatment of Fractures, 278 B. Tie Microscopical Examination of Secretions and Dis- charges, 280 C. Lists of the Instruments and Appliances required in various Operations, 382 D. Various Practical Hints and Suggestions.—Extraction of Teeth—How to give a Hypodermic Injection—How to give an Enema—How to make Poultices—How to Cleanse and Purify Sponges—How to Fill a Water-bed—How to Use a Catheter, .......... 283 E. Various Formulae.—Lotions, Caustics, Antiseptic Ligatures, Dressings, &c., ......... 289 F. Sterilising Dressings, Steel Instruments, &c., . . . 292 G. Use of the Cystoscope, . . . . '. . . . 295 H. Preservation of Pathological Specimens with Natural Colour Retained, 396 L Recent Methods of Preparing Catgut.—Methods of Draw- ing off Catgut during an Operation—How to roU Catgut in Balls—Gauze Dressings in Balls, 297 J. Shorthand in Medicine.—.Arrangement of Notes of Cases, 301 K Sick-Room Cookery Receipts, 303 I.NDEX, . 317A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER I. CASE-TAKING. Contents.—Importance of accurate " Case-taking "—How to record a case—Outline of a systematic plan—Application. There is no part of a Medical Student's training more important than the duty of systematically recording the condition, treatment, and progress of patients, when under Medical or Surgical care. The student's powers of observation are sharpened by this practice, and he learns how to apply these powers thoroughly, because systemati- cally, and thus, eventually, with both rapidity and exactness. It cannot be too strongly urged that a true knowledge of disease, which is the great secret of success in diagnosis and treatment, can only be founded on the careful and accurate study of individual cases. In the Hospital practice of a Medical School, therefore, the objects of case-taking are no less scientific and practical than educa- tional, and the student should begin from the first to form a collection of his notes of personal observations of disease, with the express purpose of continuing the practice throughout the rest of his career. He ought to acquire the art of writing shorthand, which, apart from many other advantages, will enable him to do this work in at least a third of the time and with a sixth of the labour entailed by longhand. (See Appendix.) How to Record, a Case.—Descriptions of cases may be either written into a regular case-book, or they may be first taken on separate sheets of paper, and afterwards bound together. In either way, the cases must be systematically indexed for future reference. Cit^ Appendix.) Outline of a Systematic Plan.—When a student begins to take cases, he should have a Tabulated Scheme before him, as a guide to the questions which he is to ask. This outline, being framed to suit all kinds of cases, will be too full for those in which only one organ or part of the body is affected. Still, it is well to form a habit of systematically examining every important organ or system, and should nothing be wrong, the phrase "health otherwise good," or "other systems normal," will express what is wanted. Upon the due action of every important system depend the health of the individual, his tendency to inflammation, his power of healing, and his resistance to the influence of micro-organisms. It is usual in hospitals to have the case-taking card on a separate slip of paper, so that it may be used conveniently at the bedside. The following scheme embraces what is generally required:—2 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Scheme for taking Surgical Cases. .hSn f^^^'^'^M.X be filled in after the case is finished. It should form a brief epitome of the case to catch the eye, statintr the Thk H.°h'"^"^' oP-^^'i^". or special treatment, the result! This Heading is most suitably placed on the outer covering of the finished record, or it may precede the following details with which the account of the case begins:— ° Name-Age-Married or Single-Occupation-Postal Address- Previous Medical Attendant-Date of Admi'ssion-Surgeon in Charge -No of Ward-Hospital-Patient's own Statement^f Complaim f,as distinguished from any previous medical attendant's diagnosis). History of Present Disease or Injury.-To bring out (x) if disease, its time and mode of onset, its supposed cause, and iti progress ; also, the result of any treatment previously employed (2) Jf an injury, the time and exact mode of occurrence conse- quence up to date, and result of treatment employed History of Previous Health—Noting especially any serious illness or accident, any troublesome complaint, especially any mani- festa ion of syphihs, tuberculosis, or rheumatism, or any previous attack of the present disease. Dates should be given, preferably as so many weeks, months, or years before the date of admission, or at the period at which the illnesses or accidents occurred. Social History. —Patient's occupation and surroundings. Habits as to ventilation, exercise, food, alcohol, and tobacco. Family History.—To find out if there be any taint of syphilis, or any tendency to tubercle, gout, rheumatism, or tumour growth, or to weakness in any special organ or system. If patient has had children, state their number; the number living and their condition of health; if any dead, the age at death and cause of death. Condition on Examination.—Date of examination, which should be as soon as possible after admission. Begin by a brief, pointed description or word picture of the patient. Note any con- dition of shock, excitement, coma, intoxication, or other abnormal condition that may have been present on admission, even though it may have passed off; also any special character of the gait, need for support, or mode of lying. I. Affected Pari.—{a.) Subjective—Patient's sensations, as to heat, pain, throbbing, stiffness, or other cause of complaint. (b.) Objective—(i) On inspection, note any change in colour, size, form, contour, position. A cast should be taken, or a sketch in pencil, pen and ink, or water-colour, or a photograph should be here inserted,' where the case admits of such illustration. State abnormalities in size by measurement. (2) On palpation (handling), note the relative temperature; the nature of pulsation; the patient's sensations on handling the part; the consistence, relations, and connections of any swelling; deviations, either as e.vcess or diminution of normal move- ment or power of movement, or as presence of abnormal movement or power of movement, as well as any abnormal sensation, such as grating felt by the person examining; the condition of the neighbouring parts, especially such as muscles in joint disease, or lymphatic glands in tumours or inflammation.3 CASE-TAKING. 2. Respiratory Indication of bronchitis, tuberculosis, pneu- monia, or other abnormal condition. 3. Circulatory System.—Coad.\\\on of the heart and vessels ; pulse, as to number, strength, regularity of beats, compressibility. 4. Digestive System.—Condiiion o{ the monXh, teeth, and tongue; of the appetite, digestion, and evacuations ; state of the liver. 5. Skin.—Perspiration, eruptions, cicatrices, pigmentation, tem- perature. 6. Nervous Systej/i.—Alterations in motion, sensation, reflex action, or cerebral functions. 7. Genito-urinary Syste7n.—Mictiu-ition, as to frequency and pain ; condition of urine (see Chap. xxiv.). [In women, catamenia, children, miscarriages.] Diagnosis.—Including examination of fluids withdrawn, or of portions cut off for diagnostic purposes, as well as remarks made by the surgeon. Treatanent.—All the measures used in treatment are to be mentioned. If an operation be performed, the operator should be asked as soon as it is finished what description he wishes given of it. The anaesthetic (if any) should be mentioned, and the patient's behaviour under it; also the mode of closing the wound, the drainage, and dressings used, if in any way unusual. For future reference the fluids or tissues removed should be described, and the result of microscopic examination recorded. Progress.—On graphic temperature charts, the pulse and tempera- ture are to be set down. These are to be noted night and morning in ordinary cases, but as often as every hour or every two hours in bad septic, abdominal, or head cases.' Any important change in the patient's condition should be recorded at the time, as well as any alterations in treatment. Termination.—If in death, its date, cause, and the results of post-mortem e.xamination; if in discharge from the hospital, the condition is to be noted, and the date. Should the patient return to report progress, a note of the date and condition should be added to the case, also any change of address if such has taken place. Illustrative case.— Tubercular disease of right knee—Excision; firm anchylosis. Catherine C, aged 28, domestic servant, single. Address—Comar, Strathmore, by Claynonis. Admitted June 4th, 1890, to Ward X., Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, under Mr Savi^er's care. Complaining 0/ a. bad knee." History of present Disease.—Ten years ago, after a severe cold, the patient noticed a peculiar numb sensation on the outside of her right knee. This continued for some weeks, and was then followed by swelling and pain of a shooting character, which sometimes wakened her from sleep. .Six months later the patient went to Claynonis Infirmary, with her knee drawn up and still swollen, although less painful. The joint was painted with iodine, and4 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. extension was applied to the leg with the effect, however at first af mcreasing the pain in the knee. This treatment was kept up fo month fly blisters were repeatedly applied, but also without effect The patient then went to Strathpeffer for two months, and savs that the waters there did her a great deal of good. Neit s« she repeated her visit to Strathpeffer, and the summer after that she stayed at the sea-side, where she also got benefit. Since then she fittle a'nVi P^^' '° ^^'^ about and work a Si with pain only when she did too much. Within Si inH^riK T'r''; '^"f ^^^ker and more pain ful, and for the last six months she has only been able to hobble about with the aid of a stick. She has worn a splint f om time to time to keep the leg straight. nlthnnlT' f^-~"P '° y^^^^ was fairly healthy Sn^f.i T^}^^ '° ^''h enlarged cervi Jgland7 Social History—Except that she had been I good deal in.doo;s, her mode of hfe was satisfactory. ^ .hn^T^h^ History.-Father alive and healthy ; mother died in childbirth eighteen years ago. She has four brothers and two tT^.fr.^"^ strong. One brother died of inflammation of the ?df ^tT.f "^^^ °f °" her mother's side, died of consumption. Condition on Examination (June sth, 1890).-The patient is a thin, fair, and delicate looking young woman, with a weary, tired expression. She is confined to bed, or the sofa, but can walk a few steps with the aid of a stick and the support of a friend Affected Part.-She complains of little or no pain when the limb is at rest. On Inspectwn.-Th^ right leg is partly flexed, and lies on its outer side. The knee is greatly swollen, especially at the inner side and round the patella, and measures 2 inches more in circumference than the left. The swelling is not abruptly marked off, and is accompanied by no discolouration. One or two scars, the result of some irritating application, are seen over the joint. The thigh and calf muscles are greatly atrophied as compared with those of the other side. On Palpation.—The: temperature of the right knee is felt to be raised above that of the adjacent parts of the limb and of the opposite knee. There is tenderness on pressure all over, especially opposite the internal semi-lunar cartilage and over the outer tuber- osity of the tibia. The swelling is soft and elastic but without any definite fluctuation. The patella is fixed, and the joint cannot be flexed or extended for more than about twenty degrees without much pain. Distinct lateral movement can be produced, although it is accompanied by considerable pain. Respiratory System.—She has no cough, but over the apex of the left lung there is some dulness on percussion, and prolonged expiration on auscultation, which gives rise to a suspicion of com- mencing phthisis ; otherwise normal.TREA TMENT OF PA TJENTS BEFORE OPERA TJON. S The condition of the other systems calls for no special remark. Diagnosis.—Tubercular ostitis leading to tubercular synovitis, which has extended over the cartilages at their margins and has involved the ligaments. Tendency to phthisis at the apex of the left lung. . . ■, J Treatment —On June I2th the knee-jomt was excised under chloroform by Mr. Sawyer. The whole of the synovial membrane was dissected away from above the patella by A. G. Miller's method, and what remained at the back was scraped and paired with scissors. The sawn surfaces of bone were healthy, except at one place on the outside of the tibia in which were tubercular granulations. These were gouged out, and the ends of the tibia and femur were then kept in apposition by means of steel pins driven upwards from below the joint and left projecting there. The usual antiseptic precautions were observed. After the dressing was applied the limb was fixed in a Watson's splint, and was slung after the patient was put to bed. Progress.—The case was dressed on the second day when the drainage tubes were removed, again at the end of a week when the stitches were taken out, and for the third time at the end of three weeks when the wound was found quite healed. At the end of six weeks the pins were removed. A day or two afterwards the limb was encased in plaster of Paris, and the patient sent for three weeks to the convalescent hospital. On her return she was sent to the country for two months, wearing a starch bandage. When this was removed the bones were found to be firmly anchylosed, and the patient went home on October i6th wearing a high-heeled boot. Her general health was much improved. CHAPTER II. ON THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS BEFORE AND AFTER OPERATION. Contents.—I. Treatment before Operation—Constitutional, Local, Special—Success of operation greatly dependent on state of patient's "general health." II. Treatment after Operation—Constitu- tional, Local, Special—(a.) After operations about the Rectum and Anus, on the Genito-Urinary Tract, after Ovariotomy, &c.: (b.) after operations about the Mouth and Jaws—Difficulties in administering food: how to meet them—Nutrient enemata— General hints on nourishment. It would be difficult to over-estimate the importance of this subject. For convenience, we may consider it under the heads of Constitu- tional, Local, and .Special Treatment, before operations, and after them. I. Before Operation.—(i) Constitutional Treatment.—It has long been recognised that the result of operations much depends on theA SURGICAL handbook: 6 patient s general health, and this may be paraphrased into the efficiency of all the organs under the conditions which follow the operation To secure this, some preliminary treatment may often be called for, either (i) to regulate some system or organ, and improve the blood; or (2) to accustom the patient to the fixture and surroundings which must follow the operation. In many patients a special diet, rest in bed, or particular drugs, may be required to improve digestion, stimulate elimination, relieve congested liver or kidneys, regulate the action of the heart, or improve nutrition. For instance, persons who regularly overload their system with an excess of alcohol, keep up the appearance of health for a long time if they are able to take active exercise. Should they be suddenly laid up, however, from a fractured limb or other cause, their health at once gives way. Symptoms of delirium tremens appear, and wounds are exceedingly apt to develop erysipelas or other septic conditions. In such cases preli- minary treatment by sparing diet, and diminished allowance of alcohol, laxatives, and rest in bed, would go far to lessen these unfortunate tendencies. In other cases, tonics, iron, and cod-liver oil may be required, and so on. Where case records are not systematically taken, at least the heart and lungs should be examined, and the digestive system enquired into, the morning and evening temperature ascertained, and the urine tested. It is better to examine the heart while the patient is resting quietly in the ward, rather than to add to his alarm by sounding the heart just before the anaesthetic is given. The bowels should be well opened by a laxative given on the morning of the day before the operation, and followed by an enema on the evening before operation. This enables the patient to rest quietly on the night preceding the operation, and no food should be allowed for at least four hours before anseslhetics are administered. In women, no operation should be undertaken during, or immedi- ately before, the menstrual period. (2) Local Treatment.—The area of skin which may be covered by dressings should be thoroughly cleansed with soap (preferably green soap) and water. All hairy parts should be shaved. Afterwards (if possible, the night before any operation) a towel soaked in a solution of washing soda in water, I in 4 by bulk, or I in 8 or 10 for a deli- cate skin, should be applied, and covered with a mackintosh. An hour before the operation the part should be again washed, first with green soap and water, then with methylated spirit, and covered with a cloth soaked in 1-2000 corrosive sublimate and mackintosh. (3) Special Treatment.—For operations about the face in men, the directions regarding shaving are especially necessarj', as it is a troublesome delay for the surgeon to have this to do before he can begin the operation itself. In operations on the bladder, rectum, and perinaeiun, besides the previous opening medicine, the lower bowel should be cleared out by an enema, a few hours before the operation. Although this is the nurse's duty, the House-Surgeon must see that it is done. A morphia suppository is often an advantage, an hour or two before the ancesthetic.TREA TMENT OF PA TIENTS AFTER OPERA TION. 7 There are many cases where necessity precludes any preliminary treatment, except,' perhaps, a rapid cleansmg with washiug-soda or turpe^t^ie, and a nail brush, to prepare for the more effective acting of the antiseptic lotion. Some recon,mend painting the surface of skm with tincti^e of iodine. The best that is possible under the circum- stances must, of course, be the rule. . , Cleansing of the Mouth.-Before any operation, the patient s moutli should be fi-eed from decomposing material, and this precaution is especially necessary before operations on the mouth or throat or betore those in which the "alimentary canal is involved. Organisms harboured in the mouth may directly infect the lungs or the blood, or may lead to septic fermentation in the alimentary canal. . On this account loose teeth should be removed, and carious teeth removed, stopped, or at least swabbed with pure carbolic acid, the teeth and gums should be well brushed at least twice a day, and the mouth frequently rinsed with Condy's fluid or other antiseptic mouth wash. EstabUslinient of Artificial Hjrper-Leucocytosis.—Mickuhcz ad- vocates the subcutaneous injection of neucleic acid before operations on the ahmentary canal, as this drug increases the number of white blood corpuscles in the blood. This is believed, from experimental evidence, to act as a valuable prophylactic against peritoneal infection in ttie human subiect. .,. , , i „f Messrs. Parke Davis & Co. supply a sterilised s per cent, solution ot neucleinic acid for hypodermic injection. The usual dose is a hypodermic injection of 50 c.c. of a 2 per cent, solution, administered twelve hours before an abdominal operation Before operations on the alimentary canal, efforts should be made to render the stomach and intestines as free from organisms as possible Besides attention to the mouth. Gushing advises that the tood for some days before operation should be taken from very clean or sterilised vessels, and should consist of sterilised water, milk, and other fluids in an aseptic condition. Where there is gastritis, and micro- organisms in number in the gastric contents after a test meal, the stomach should be washed out twice daily for some days before operation. ^\^lere plastic operations involving the transplanting of skin- flaps by stages from distant parts are to be undertaken, the parts which are to be held in apposition must be fixed on their place for some days before, so that the patient may be accustomed to the constraint. IL After Operation.—(i) ConstiHUional Treatment.—Aittx axiy caoiul operation the patient is usually kept on fluid diet for a few davs until the effects of the ansesthetic have passed off. When patients complain of much pain, the best analgesic is opium, given as morphia, hypodermically or by the mouth. The amount of the dose will vary with the patient's tolerance of the drug; but it is best to begin with small doses—say J4 of a grain, which may be repeated if necessary. Children, aged people, and those with renal di-sease or bronchitis, bear opium badly. In sleeplessnes.-5, where there is no pain, paraldehyde, bromide of ammonium, chloral, trional, and hyoscyamus, prove useful. As soon as digestion per- mits of it, fish or chicken i.s added to the diet (see Appendix E), and, as soon as possible, full hospital diet is ordered. If the bowels do not act of themselves, they .should be opened on the third or fourth day by an enema or simple laxative. The tongue,A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 8 as indicative of the state of the digestive system, should be looked at from time to time. The late Mr. Syme's favourite remedy in liver and stomach derangements was a powder of rhubarb (grs. v.) and soda (grs. v.) given once or twice daily before meals for a few days ; to this bismuth may sometimes be added with advan- tage. Where the liver seems sluggish, a bitter infusion, with dilute mineral acid and tincture of nux vomica, is useful. Iron is often indicated by the anaemic state of the patient, and other remedies may be required according to circumstances. (2) Local Treatment.—Tht local treatment involves wound- dressings, which are elsewhere considered (p. 19). (3) Special Treatment.—{a.) In all cases of operation about the anus and rectum, such as for fissure, fistula in ano, or piles, the bowels should remain unopened for about two days, and be opened on the third morning by castor oil or other mild aperient. The free opening of the bowels before the operation, and the low diet after it, generally suffice to keep the bowels from moving of them- selves for some days. When morphia suppositories have been given to soothe pain after the operation, the bowels will be still more bound. It is better not to wait until the bowels move of themselves, because by that time firm faecal masses will have formed. These would be more irritating to the recent wound than the earlier passage of a liquid stool. An enema is necessarily contra-indicated. It should be remembered that operations upon the anus, and in the neighbourhood of the urethra, are apt to cause retention of urine by retiex spasm of the constrictor urethrae. Some surgeons on this account pass a catheter at the end of the operation, and in any case provision must be made for drawing off the water within eight hours of that time, and for repeating the proceeding if need be. (b.) The treatment of the bowels after the relief of a strangu- lated hernia, whether by taxis or by operation, is a matter of dispute. Some surgeons invariably administer opium or morphia, and keep the patient on low diet, to prevent any motion of the bowels for a week or ten days. This is done to insure rest for the injured and probably inflamed bowel, and may in some cases be necessary. Other surgeons act on the principle that if the bowel be inflamed, its peristalsis will be thereby checked, so that unless local pain or general restlessness call for the use of opium, it may be omitted, and the action of the bowels left to nature. The latter seems the more rational plan, and is the one which we advocate. Where it is known that the bowel itself is injured, efforts will, of course, be made to ensure absolute quiet for the injured part, opium or morphia continued for a week or ten days, and the patient fed by nutrient enemata, supplemented only by small quantities of fluid food given by the mouth. (f.) After Ovariotomy, or other intra-peritoneal operation, the general indications are to keep the parts at rest and avoid sickness. It is not, however, necessary to deprive the patient of all fluid. In fact, the more fluid the patient absorbs the less the risk of shock and the suffering from thirst, and the greater the elimination by the ex- cretory organs. Should sickness, however, persist, water may beTREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION. 9 ulministered per anum instead of by the mouth. From 3 to 8 oz. may bo injected at a time. If this is done slowly and at intervals of an hour or two, thirst can be completely obviated. After flatus has been passed, as it usually is twenty or twenty-four hours after opera- tion, the diet is gradually improved, beginning with milk and water: Nutrient enemata may sometimes be required, should tendency to vomiting continue (see p. 11). Unless specially contra-indicated by the state of the intestine, distention of the bowel with flatus should be treated by purgatives. Calomel is given, generally in I-grain doses, until 3 or 4 grains are taken, and this is followed by a seidlitz powder or by sulphate of magnesia. If the bowels do not move spontaneously in two hours, an enema should be administered. The whole may be repeated once. .-yter all abdominal operations flatus in the rectum is apt to cause discomfort, because the patient cannot well strain to get rid of it. Anv wide tube occasionally passed gently into the rectum will allow the'flatus to escape, or a special "flatus tube" may be employed. {(i.) Operations on the Genito-Urinary Tract.—The chief point to be attended to in the after-treatment of patients whose genito-urinary tract has been operated upon, is to diminish the acidity of the urine and lessen the work of the kidney by keeping down the albuminoid element in the food. A diet, consisting chiefly of milk and starchy foods, is best for this purpose. When the kidney has been injured, the bowels must be kept open. Foetid urine may be improved by the free administration by the mouth of boracic acid oz. sat. solution ever)' three hours), salol (15 grs. twice or thrice a day), helmitol, quinine, sandalwood oil or copaiba, and, best of all, urotropin, as well as by the injection of weak antiseptics into the bladder. Washing out the Bladder is often of great service when the urine is purulent, and the mucous membrane unhealthy. Some surgeons use a double-way catheter. With this instrument, fluid is injected Viy one of the channels, while it flows out by the other; but, as by this method the mucous membrane is not distended and its folds exposed to the fluid, we prefer the ordinary single-way catheter. The fluids at first used must be wami (80° to 100° F.) and unirri- lating antiseptics—e.g., 1-4000 corrosive sublimate lotion, half strength boracic lotion, or 1-2000 carbolic acid; quinine 2-3 grains per ounce, with I min. dilute sulphuric acid per grain; nitrate of silver |^ to I grain to 51, or ^ per cent, formalin solution. The quantity of fluid injected must depend on the state of the patient's bladder—such as can be borne without much inconvenience. The meatus and glans penis must first be cleansed with an anti- septic lotion. When the urethra or bladder is irritable, cocaine or eucain (2 to 5 per cent.) may hie utilised. A catheter (soft for pre- ference) is pa.ssed into the l)ladder, and the urine drawn off. The selected fluid is then injected with a syringe (Higginson's; a ball, or an ordinary piston, syringe), or is allowed by syphon or water-head to flow in from a height of I or 2 feet at most. The catheter may be connected with the syringe with a small piece of rubber tubing, but a finely conical nozzle at the end of the syringe will do instead. The fluid is then allowed to escape, and is probably at first turbid; theA SURGICAL handbook: 10 process is repeated until the returning fluid is clear. Foulis has introduced a simple and cheap form of douche, although any other form of douche may be used (Fig. i). He attaches a stopcock to the lower part of a common-handled mug, holding a pint. The simplest method of washing out the bladder is to connect a small glass or metal funnel with the catheter in the bladder by means of 3 or 4 feet of rubber tubing. The tubing is flushed to warm it and drive out air, and is then clamped while the connection is being made. The funnel is raised about 2 feet above the bed while the fluid runs into the bladder. When sufficient has entered, the funnel is rapidly lowered to a pail below the bed to syphon out the fluid. This is repeated till the fluid returns clear. In washing out the bladder in women, Burn Murdoch's plan seems the Fig. I.—Washing out the Bladder. Foulis' Method. best. The patient's hips are brought well to the edge of the bed, while her body lies obliquely across it. If the lower parts of the labia majora be now separated the orifice of the urethra can be seen and the catheter inserted, with very little idea of exposure to the patient. The bladder is then washed out. [e.) Operations on the Mouth or Jaws.—After extensive opera- tions in this region, the diflSculty of feeding the patient may be considerable. Mastication is generally impossible, and swallowing nearly so, as well as painful. Frequent cleansing of the mouth with Condy's fluid or boracic lotion is a source of great comfort to such patients, and is very im- portant in restraining sepsis. A nurse may syringe the parts freelyTREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION, ir at least three or four times daily, or a syphon with clamp or stopcock may be laid close to the patient's bed, so that he may wash out his mouth himself as often as he pleases. Difficulties in Administering Food: How to meet the?n.—Under these circumstances, liquid food must be administered (a.) through a tube by the mouth, or (b.) per anum. {a.) Sometimes at the end of the operation, a gum-elastic or soft rubber catheter (about No. 12 to 18) is passed either through the nostril or the mouth into the cESophagus, and is held in position by a stitch. In other cases the House Surgeon or nurse passes a similar tube each time the patient is fed. The food, which must be poured through a funnel raised a few inches, will generally consist of milk, beaten-up eggs, beef-tea, thin arrow-root, and (if necessary) alcohol in the form of brandy or whisky. It is needless to say that, if a tube has to be daily passed, care must be taken to ensure that it enters the oesophagus and not the trachea. It has happened that the patient's lungs have received the food meant for the stomach— an accident which involves nearly certain death, either by immediate suffocation or rapid pneumonia. (3.) Rectal Alimentation is at best a poor substitute for feeding by the mouth. Life may be sustained by it, however, for several weeks and even months; and in certain circumstances the rectum becomes the only available channel for introducing nourishment into, the system. The physiological facts on which the proper management of rectal alimentation depends, are briefly: that while the absorptive power of the large intestine is very great, digestive powers may be considered to be wanting in its juices altogether, and that, as its chief function is expulsive, fluids or solids introduced per anum, large in amount, or with irritating qualities, will be expelled before absorption can occur. Nutrient Enemata should, therefore, be pre-digested, should be small in amount (from 2 to 6 ounces), should be injected slowly, and as nearly as possible at the body-temperature (95° to 100° F.). Under favourable conditions, a reverse peristalsis seems often to occur, and the materials of enemata injected shortly before death have been found afterwards at the caecum. The food injected should be (i) peptonised albuminoids, in the form of peptonised meat-juices sold ready for use (Johnston's, Darby's, Brand's, &c.); beef-tea, or white of egg, digested with pepsin and hydrochloric acid, or more conveniently with Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, or some of the peptonising powders sold by chemists (Fairchild's and the zymine powders sold by Messrs. Burroughs & Welcome act admirably); (2) Diastased starch in the form of prepared malted foods, or starchy foods acted on by malt extract, or by artificial pancreatic juice ; (3) Or the combination of starchy and albuminoid foods contained in peptonised milk, or peptonised milk-gruel (see also Appendix). N.B.—Recent experiment by Huter seems to have established that the mixture of a gramme (15 grs.) of common salt with the white of each eggA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 12 renders the albumen almost as ready for rectal absorption as peptonising does. This method from its simplicity will be of much practical use. Peptonised suppositories are a convenient form by which albu- minoid substances may be administered. To lessen the irritability of the rectum, all faecal matter should be cleared out from it by an enema of warm water, with or without soap, before rectal alimentation is begun, and from time to time during its progress. The same care in maintaining an excess of carbohydrate over albuminoid food (in proportion of about 4 to i) must be taken in dealing with this, as with the ordinary mode of feeding by the mouth. Nourishment: General Hints on.—Speaking generally, the nourishment of patients recovering from an operation is to be main- tained on the principle of giving nutrition without increasing the nitrogenous waste. Beef-tea, chicken-broth, and other meat- infusions are recognised as stimulants to tissue-change rather than foods proper. They should not be omitted: but starchy foods should be chiefly relied on, and it should be remembered that meat- infusions alone will cause more rapid wasting than no food at all. In feverish conditions (septic and otherwise) the digestive juices lose their power—hence the indication for giving artificially-digested foods in extreme cases. When the mouth becomes dry and parched for lack of saliva, arrow-root, rice, and other starchy foods are contra-indicated, unless previously acted on by malt or pancreatic extract {Chambers). In these cases the use of artificially-prepared foods specially intended for infants will be found of service. The various kinds seem to have this in common, that they contain starchy foods more or less changed by malting (Mellin's, Angell's, and Savory & Moore's, can be all highly recommended). CHAPTER III. AN.S3STHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. Contents.—^The Condition suitable for Operation—Importance of Per- sonal Experienee in the Administration of Anassthetics—(l) Chloro- form: Modeof Administration—Dangers and Cautions—Respiratory and Cardiac Complications: how to meet them —(2) Ether: ministration of (a.) by the "Open," (b.) by the "Closed," Method —(3) Cocaine—Caution !—(4) The Method of producing Local Insensibility by Extreme Cold. The drugs most commonly employed for the production of general anaesthesia are chloroform and ether. No anaesthetic can be regarded as absolutely safe. The relative safety of the various agents em- ployed depends upon the administrator, the condition for which the anaesthesia is required, and the ana?sthetic. The condition suitable for operating, is that in which the patient is said to be "under." This implies muscular relaxation, and theANAESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 15 cessation of all reflex motion, other than that associated with respiration and circulation. Short of this stage, it is not safe to operate. ^^ hile sensation re- mains shock might readily ensue, and a reflex inhibition of the heart throuo-h the vagus might cause death. If the administration of the drucr be pushed too far, respiratory paralysis arises, and this in us tun? is foUowed by stoppage of the heart, if preventive measures be not at once adopted. Hence, the administration of an anaesthetic involves <^rave responsibilities, requires the undivided and unceasing attention^of the administrator, and should only be carried out by,_or in the presence of, a qualified practitioner. Although the risk which attends the careful administration of chloroform or ether is but small, it is difficult to exaggerate the perilous position of the patient, where due care is not exercised. The student should seize every opportunity of giving anesthetics, as nothing short of actual experience can give him the necessary self-reliance and watchfulness. (i) Chloroform is the more potent and useful of the two drugs. By far the greater number of accidents which occur with it are due to an overdose, to lack of care on the part of the giver. In poisoning from chloroform, it fortunately happens that the respiratory centres are usually involved before the cardiac, and hence embarrassed or shallow breathing—which we can readily obviate—foretells immedi- ate danger, and gives rise to the simple rule—"Watch the breathing."' Very rarely does the heart stop first, or suddenly, without warning. This does, however, happen. It has been associated with operations in the region of the fifth and pudic nerves, when the patient was not deeply under the influence of the drug, with epilepsy, and where special idiosyncrasies may have existed. Chloroform is only contra- indicated in cases of weak, irregular, cardiac action-be the cause of this what it may—fatty heart, anaemia, shock, fear, depression, or old age. Mode of Administering Chloroform.—T\ie: more simple the appa- ratus used by the chloroformist, the better. A small towel, a gag, a pair of common artery forceps (Fig. 19) to pull forward the tongue should occasion arise, together with a hypodermic needle and ether or strychnine for emergencies, constitute his requirements. The drop method has the merit of economy to commend it. A single ply of the corner of a towel or a Skinner's mask is held over the^nose and mouth on which the chloroform is received guttatim. The folded towel possesses the advantage of allowing one to study the face and feel the breathing directly. It should be folded into a square, and about an inch of its margin turned up so as to form a pad or roll, which may be laid against the chin, and kept free from chloroform. The patient's stomach should be empty. It is better for him to have had no food for at least four hours prior to operation. The administration should be conducted on a suitably long narrow table. The head and shoulders of the patient are preferably to be on a lower level than the pelvis and lower ex- tremities, so as to favour a plentiful supply of blood to the cerebral centres. It is dangerous to give a general anaesthetic in bed. Under no circumstances .should the shoulders be raised, and the dentist's14 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. chair, which permits this, is to be condemned. The patient should lie on his back, with the head comfortably supported on the pillow, and all clothing encircling the neck and chest should be loosened. The upper extremities should be perfectly free, but the feet and ankles may be secured to the foot of the table. About a dram or two of chloroform is now to be sprinkled over the towel; the patient is told to breathe easily and close his eyes, and the towel is gradually raised in front of the face. If the patient feel uneasy, or if he should complain of chok- ing, the towel should be withheld for a moment till a full inspiration of pure air has been taken. If there be an accumulation of sahva in the mouth, he is asked to spit into a towel. Quiet should always be maintained, since the sense of hearing is sharpened by chloroform, and since the period of excitement which ushers in chloroform-narcosis is often increased by external agencies. Should the patient become greatly excited, it is not advisable to struggle against him. On the contrary, he should be allowed to grasp the hands of an assistant, who will follow and guide his movements. Securing the patient to the table before he is "under," or other restraint of any kind only provokes resistance. In some people, more especially in drunkards, the stage of excite- ment is often prolonged ; and as the patient struggles and holds his breath, the veins become conjested and turgid, and a species of tetanic spasm sets in, during which the respiratory muscles are apt to become fixed. Under such circumstances, the towel should be removed until the congestion has passed off, and the patient once more breathes with regularity, when the administration may be resumed again with safety. As soon as the patient rests quietly, and no longer responds to pinching, his limbs lying limp and motionless, the conjunctival reflex may be tested by raising the upper eyehd with one finger, and very gently touching the globe with the other. If the patient does not wink, the chloroform should be at once withdrawn, the patient is "under," and the operator may begin. Throughout the whole administration the breathing must be carefully observed. This may be done by hearing and by holding a couple of fingers or the) hand in front of the nose or mouth to feel the respiration. Note that the chest may heave although no air is entering the lungs ; hence the necessity for feeling the breath with the hand over the mouth. At short intervals more chloroform should be given, as signs of returning sensibility are recognised, such as conjunctival reflex. The cornea should not be fingered too much, lest its sensibility become impaired, and the delicacy of this test be lost. It sometimes happens (as, for example, in children) that the conjunctiva is of little use as a guide, in which case the local sensibility and muscular relaxation will serve instead. When the patient is "under," the pupil is contracted ; it dilates as he recovers, but we must bear in mind that also during profound and dangerous anassthesia it rapidly becomes widely dilated. Dangers and Cautions 1—Certain troubles and dangers are apt to embarrass the chloroformist. These are, firstly, respirator)'—the sudden, or gradual stoppage of breathing; secondly, cardiac— syncope, or complete cardiac failure.ANu¥:STHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 15 (a.) Respiratory Arrest, when sudden, is frequently due to the presence of some foreign body in the mouth, lodging in the larynx. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to remove false teeth, and search the mouths of children for sweetmeats, prior to giving an anesthetic; similarly gags, sponges, and mouth instruments should be examined before use, lest part may be loose. The tongue itself may suddenly fall back, and so obstruct respiration. If so, by pulling the chin forward, and turning the head slightly on one side, the tongue is prevented from becoming an impediment; and if the condition does not at once yield to this simple manoeuvre, the mouth should be opened and the glottis explored with the finger. Gradual stoppage of breathing is usually associated with over-dose. In poisoning of the respiratory centres, the breathing becomes shallow, irregular, and laboured—all ofwhich signs are evident enough to the attentive administrator. Or, again, there may come on closure of the glottis, associated with crowing, "croup-like" breathing, which at once gives the alarm. The treatment is to open the mouth, which may entail the use of the gag. The tongue is then forcibly seized with the artery forceps about half an inch from its tip, and they are closed, so that slipping is impossible, and the tongue is then pulled forcibly forwards and upwards. This causes the glottis to open, and reflexly stimulates respiration. The tongue is, of course, pierced by the forceps, but less damage is inflicted than by the various inefficient substitutes which have been recommended. In every case where there is no response to this treatment, artificial respiration should be at once carried out. Sickness and vomiting are dangerous from the risk of ejected material gaining access to the air passages. This is very liable to occur during operation for intestinal obstruction. A preliminary washing out of the stomach gives the patient relief, and may obviate this disaster. Inter- mittent administration, shaking and movement of the patient, favour sickness. If the stomach contain food or fluid, the patient shoifld be turned bodily on his side and allowed to vomit, after which the chloro- form is again resumed. If it be empty, chloroform is pushed in order to abolish the reflex act. {b.) The Cardiac Complications are, in the first place, those associated with, and secondary to, difficulty of breathing, when the right heart becomes distended and general congestion occurs. We have already alluded to this, as seen in the case of drunkards. It is enough to remove the towel and encourage respiration. In anxious cases, the external jugular vein may be opened; or, if the heart have stopped, the right ventricle might, as a last resort, be punctured with the hypodermic needle, blood withdrawn, and the endocardium at the same time stimulated. Sudden heart-failure is not prone to occur when the patient is well "under." Syncope is presaged by pallor, feebleness, and irregularity of the pulse, which, if not relieved by ether (.5i) or strychnine (y^ gr.), hypodermically injected, is speedily followed by extreme pallor, sudden dilation of the pupil, and cardiac failure. The most prompt action is necessitated in such cases. We have to stimulate the cerebral centres by lowering the head, and the method of inversion, which we owe to Nelaton, is of great value, since it not only increases the blood supply to the brain,i6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. but also opens up the glottis effectually. It is best accomplished, if the patient's ankles are already secured, by tilting the table, or by the operator mounting a chair, and placing his left leg on the table, while he lifts the patient and lays him across his left knee, so that the chest and head are dependent. The chloroformist pulls out the tongue and begins artificial respiration, while an assistant injects ether or strych- nine hypodermically, and makes himself generally useful. If air passes freely into the lungs, we do not lose hope, but persevere with artificial respiration. It will be noted how much can be learnt by watching the aspect of the patient's face. The pallor of syncope and sickness, the congestion of respiratory embarrassment must be well watched, in contrast with the normal colour of the lips and ears. To sum up : we expect that no operative procedure whatsoever should take place till the patient is fairly " under"; that as soon as he is under—as evidenced by the muscular relaxation, cutaneous insensibility, and loss of conjunctival reflex—the anaesthetic should be at once removed; and that in the event of any respiratory trouble arising which is not at once relieved by pulling forward the chin, or by forcible traction on the tongue with artery-forceps, the alarm should be given, and artificial respiration promptly begun, with the patient's head and shoulders well lowered (Fig. 34a). When extensive operations have to be performed in the region of the mouth and jaws, the patient's sufferings are mitigated, and less chloroform is required by mixed narcosis; J to ^ gr. morphine is given hypodermically twenty minutes before chloroforming. Moreover, the operator may be greatly assisted by the patient's ability to clear his mouth while still remaining insensible to pain. Junker's apparatus is serviceable for the continuous administration of chloroform during mouth operations. The vapour may be pumped along a tube into the throat, or the modified Mason's gag, with its hollow handle, for connection with Junker's inhaler, may be found still more convenient. Chloroforming to facilitate further operative procedure after a pre- liminary tracheotomy. To one end of a short piece of rubber tube attach a filler, to the other the inner tracheotomy tube. Chloroform is poured on a piece of lint at the bottom of a tumbler, the tracheotomy tube inserted, and the filler held over the tumbler. The shorter and larger the tube the greater the ease in breathing. Certain disadvantages are apt to attend the administration of chloro- form in small rooms with exposed gas or paraffin-oil fights. A decom- position of the vapour takes place and intensely irritating chlorine pro- ducts are formed. On one occasion where the room was heated by a small oil stove, an operation had to be hurriedly concluded, on account of the discomfort caused by the compounds liberated from the chloro- form, and the patient had an attack of bronchitis in consequence. The well-known inflammable nature of ether also calls for caution when it is used by night, or in proximity to a naked light or glowing cautery. All operation theatres should have covered or electric illu- mination. (2) Ether is held in favour as the safer anmsthetic by many surgeons, notably so in England and abroad. It would appear, however, that in this respect its virtues have been exaggerated, and fatalities during its use are not extremely rare, as is shown by some American writings and recent German statistics.ANyESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 17 It may be used with advantage where chloroform is contra- indicated. It should not be employed for children, who always bear chloroform well and safely. It is contra-indicated in cranial surgery, since it congests the brain ; and it is open to similar objections in pulmonary and renal weakness, where it is more or less obnoxious from chilling the lung or irritating the kidneys. There are two methods of giving ether, known respectively as the "Open " and the " Closed" methods. (a.) The " Open" Method.—This resembles the ordinary mode of giving chloroform. The ether is either poured on the hollow apex of a towel rolled into a cone, or on a sponge placed within the towel, and the cone is then held over the patient's nose and mouth. The ether is renewed as required, and care similar to that exercised in the administration of chloroform is carried out. As a rule, the stage of excitement is more pronounced, the face undergoes peculiar vascular changes, and the administration requires to be more continuous than with chloroform. For the open method, Allis' ether-inhaler has certain advantages. It consists of a light metal framework, on which a bandage runs vertically in a zigzag manner, the whole being surrounded by a strong rubber collar. This is placed over the respiratory passages, and the ether dropped con- tinuously on the bandage. [b.) The '■'■Closed'" Method possesses the peculiarity of requiring that the patient should breathe and rebreathe his own expired air, so that partial asphyxia is made use of as an ancesthetic ; less ether is required, and there is not so much chilling of the lungs. It is carried out by means of a special inhaler—Ortiisby's or Clover's being commonly employed. Such inhalers consist of a mask or face-piece, to which is affixed a nibb)er bag, into which and from which the patient breathes. There is an interpolated chamber or sponge for ether, so that the respired air is thus ch^LTged with the anaesthetic. The air-pad of the face-piece should be blown up and soaped, if the patient possess a beard, so that it may securely fit when pressed down firmly on the face. In the case of the Clover's inhaler, the ether-chamber is charged with a measure of ether, and the index turned so that the patient breathes and rebreathes into the rubber balloon. After one or two respirations, the administrator gradually turns the index so that ether is admitted, and by degrees a quarter, half, and, finally, all the air breathed consists of ether vapour, the face-piece being closely pressed down. By means of a valve a little fresh air may be given when necessary, but this is most readily accom- plished by removing the mask. It is noteworthy that, during the administration of ether as contrasted with that of chloroform, the breathing is more noisy and stertorous, there is a copious secretion of saliva, the face is congested or dusky, and, especially during operations on the head, there is freer bleeding. Sickness after anjesthetics, when obstinate, may be treated by giving the patient very hot water to sip, or by the administration of an eighth of a grain of morphia in pill, with perhaps a little cocaine. A sinapism over the stomach often gives rchcf. Troublesome, and even fatal, diarrhcea has sometimes been seen after chloroform in the case of little oi8 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. children. The condition of the urine before and after anaesthesia should be noted. Albumen and fibrinous casts or sugar are frequently present thereafter. In kidney disease or diabetes the patient is accordingly liable to suffer, and in the latter case fatal acetonuria may be determined. Tracheotojny for asphy.xia during anaesthesia is rarely necessary. It may be called for owing to the impaction of blood, vomited matters, or when a tooth or other foreign body lodges in the larynx. It may be required when ordinary means fail to open the glottis. For minor operations requiring a short anaesthesia, especially for dental surgery, the use oi gas and eiher may be strongly recommended. Administration should take place in the recumbent position. The usual rubber bag and stopcock of a nitrous oxide apparatus is fitted on to a Clover's inhaler, charged with ether, and face piece. The bag is filled two-thirds with nitrous oxide, and the face piece well pressed down over the mouth and nose so that no escape can occur. The gas alone is now turned on, and as the patient rapidly passes under its influence, in about 20 seconds, ether is added and its action maintained until complete anaesthesia is produced. Pure Ethyl Chloride, or preparations thereof, are also extensively used for short operations. About 5 c.c. are sprayed into the bag of a Clover's or special inhaler, and administered by firmly pressing down the face piece. With this drug we gain an anaesthesia of about i.^ minutes, which may be repeated. Caution.—Where the heart substance is weak, gas is preferable to ethyl chloride. (3) Cocaine.—No agent equals cocaine tor the production of local anjesthesia. Care should be taken to obtain a good preparation, since the impure forms are highly irritating. Two solutions are commonly employed—a 5 per cent, and a I per cent.; or a •! per cent, solution if adrenalin be added. These should be freshly pre- pared by dissolving I grain of cocaine in sterilised normal salt solution, as required. Etccain, if dissolved in normal salt solution, is safer. It can, moreover, be sterilised by boiling and retain its properties. {a.) The stronger solution is used for external application to mucous surfaces; it does not penetrate ordinary cutaneous epithelium. It may be sponged, painted on, or rubbed in with a pledget of lint or wadding. The latter method gives the more rapid and lasting effect, but the application will vary with the accessibility of the part. Thus, we drop the solution on to the conjunctiva, spray the nostrils and throat, rub the tonsils and pharynx, and so obtain insensibility prior to interference with the eye or throat, or when using the laryngoscope, or removing tonsils, &c. In painful dysphagia due to ulceration, its action is most beneficial. {b.) The weaker solution is for hypodermic use. Five minims should be injected at the spot selected, the needle left in situ, and as .sensation becomes dulled, the point may be radiated as required, and further doses introduced. In this way about a grain may be injected. The patient should always be in the horizontal position. Anfcsthesia, as in the case of mucous membranes, is complete in about three minutes, and lasts for about twenty minutes longer. As the toxic effect ol cocaine is lessened when injected into non-vascularANAESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 19 tissues, the parts may be rendered bloodless and a rubber tourniquet may be applied where possible. A like result may be gained by the addition of a small amount of adrenalin, which increases and lengthens the analgesia ; hence very weak solutions are now used, such as \ grain cocaine in I oz. normal salt solution, to which 6 in.- of adrenalin chloride (Parks, Davies & Co.) are added. The drug is dissolved in a normal salt solution, and the infiltration endermic method of Schleich speedily dulls the sensibility. The needle is introduced into the skin parallel with its surface, and an etiderinic injection made which, of course, raises a local oedema. From this area, once insensibiUty is attained, the needle may be carried into the outlying skin or deeply into the lower struc- tures, even into the periosteum. We have to avoid vessels. The injections should not be made in inflamed tissues. By this method we not only perform minor operations, such as for epithelioma of the lip, circumcision, lipoma, piles, fissure, and the removal of fingers and toes, but many major operations, such as removal of goitre, radical cure of hernia, and the like. In laparo- tomies the method is pre-eminently successful, and the more so since the peritoneum is insensible to pain. It is advisable, however, after dividing the skin to make a fresh injection into the extra-peri- toneal tissue, since the outer aspect of the peritoneum is very sensitive. Gastrostomy, colostomy, gastro-enterostomy, and other grave opera- tions may thus be performed with little inconvenience to the patient. Injected into the urethra, the cocaine and adrenalin relieve con- gestion, facilitate the passage of catheters, and reduce the difficulties associated with inflamed and tender prostate and stricture. By the injection of suitable drugs into the theca vertebralis, we obtain an analgesia of the lower extremities, pelvis, and trunk, extend- ing even to the axilla. The method is known as lumbar or spinal anassthesia. Bier, of Bonn, to whom we owe the procedure, recom- mends its use in weakly patients when general anaesthesia is contra- indicated. He recommends it specially in the case of old people ; in operations on the rectum, but not for laparotomies. It has been largely used for major operations on the lower extremities, but the method is not yet perfect. Bier regards stovain as the safest agent. The method is as follows, the needle employed and the preliminaries resembling those of the ordinary diagnostic lumbar puncture :— The patient lies on the right side, a pillow supporting the lumbar region, thorax, shoulders, and head, the knees and thighs flexed, and the back carried forward so as to make the spinous processes project and increase the space between the neural arches. At a point in the mid line, corresponding to the highest level of the ihac crests, a little cocaine is injected locally to dull the parts. The special needle, carefully sterilised, is now carried inwards and made to penetrate the fourth lumbar interspace. As it is felt to pass in, the piston of the syringe is withdrawn and cerebro-spinal fluid wells up. If no fluid appear, or should blood be withdrawn, the needle must be removed and re-introduced afresh or at a higher level. The second and third interspace is favoured by many surgeons. A second20 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. syringe should be ready, containing stovain in normal salt solution, and of this an amount equal in bulk to the cerebro-spinal fluid with- drawn, and containing o"o6 to 0*04 of stovain, is now genily and freely injected. In a few minutes the anus is insensible to pain and the action rapidly extends. Eier recommends the addition of para- nephin {3 drops) to the solution. He formerly used cocaine with adrenalin, but found this combination did not prevent the headache, backache, and vomiting, which frequently followed after operation. Injection into a tia-ve trunk (Krogitcs) causes anaesthesia of its peripheral area, and can be used with great advantage. This method has been especially urged as a means of "blocking" the conductivity of large nerve trunks to avoid shock in major amputations. Caution.—It would appear that some people are highly susceptible even to moderate doses of cocaine. In such, it gives rise to dis- agreeable, and sometimes dangerous, symptoms. The patient becomes pale, and syncope threatens; or, again, he may turn dusky or livid. Giddiness, cardiac irregularity, retching, delirium, un- consciousness, and collapse have been noted. Treatment consists in laying the patient at full length, giving stimulants and heat; good Vias also been obtained by inhalation of nitrite of amyl. (5) Local Insensibility by Cold.—Local anaesthesia may also be produced by rendering the part bloodless after Esmarch's method, and freezing. For this purpose the ether spray, ethyl chloride, or antesthetile may be used. The two latter are supplied in convenient small cylinders. On opening and inverting, the fluid is sprayed over the field of operation or over the nerve trunk which leads to it. The skin speedily becomes dead white and insensible. The thawing is painful. The method is more specially useful where cocaine fails, as in acute inflammations, whitlows, &C. CHAPTER IV. ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. Contents.—Antiseptic Treatment and the Germ Theory—A. General Antiseptic Principles and Practice—Antiseptic Materials- Isolation—Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics—Various Antiseptics and their Relative Advantages: Carbolic .^cid, Corrosive Sublimate, Iodoform, BoracicAcid, Chloride of Zinc, &c. ,&c. — Use of Antiseptics during Operation—Antiseptic Ligatures, Dressings, and Strapping. A. General Antiseptic Principles and Practice. The whole question of the treatment of wounds turns upon the differences which obtain between a compound and a simple fracture, an injury with skin broken and one in which it remains intact. All surgeons endeavour to bring wounds into a condition comparable with that in which the skin is unbroken. Speaking generally, we may say that inflammation does not attend subcutaneous injuries. Wherever the skin is destroyed, however, external noxious agentsANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 21 are brought into contact with the injured tissues, and inflammation and fever ensue. This is entirely due to the growth and develop- ment in the wound-secretions of micro-organisms, which, abounding more or less in the atmosphere, are deposited everywhere. Thess germs vary in number, virulence, and vitality—many of them, more especially those associated with putrefactive changes, thrive in dead or dying tissue, aided by moisture and heat, conditions which they find in wounds. It is against such organisms coming directly from without that the surgeon battles. A second series of microbes, not only attack wounds from without, but gain entrance to the system through the alimentary, respiratory, and other tracts. Many of these give rise to special diseases, such as tubercle, and the like. Sometimes they retain their vitality in the tissues and the blood-stream for a considerable time, and only give direct evidence of their presence by congregating and multiplying at spots where there has been some local injury sustained, or where some local weakness exists. It is in this way that we explain the micro-organismal formation of acute abscess. Since inflammation and blood-poisoning, ensuing on the receipt of a wound, is thus caused, it follows that all successful wound-treat- ment is based upon a recognition of the germ-theory, and should be conducted entirely on the antiseptic principles of Lister. This implies that our object is not so much to treat the wound itself, as its surroundings. We exclude microbes from our wounds by effecting their destruction externally, or, if they have gained a footing, we destroy them within the wound by the use of local anti- septics, and by strengthening and aiding the tissue, we render it an unfitting soil for germs. Antiseptic Methods and Materials.—While the principles of antiseptic or aseptic treatment laid down by Lister remain established, the methods and materials vary greatly in the hands of different surgeons. It is obvious that the utmost care is required in thorough disinfection of everything that comes in contact with the wound, and that constant vigilance must be exercised lest reinfection from touching septic surfaces occur. Thus the end of a ligature may touch the coat of an assistant just before use, and so lead to an implantation sepsis; or the surgeon may inadvertently brush back his hair, and so with unclean hand plant mischief in the wound. Such errors easily arise, hence it is advisable to rinse the hands repeatedly during an operation in some active antiseptic lotion. Custom speedily makes the observance of antiseptic detail a reflex action, but when a wound goes wrong, the surgeon generally finds that he or his assistants have been at fault. The question of atmospheric contamination arises. This is certainly liable to happen in badly constructed and foul operating theatres, more especially if they are also utilised as demonstration and lecture rooms. It was to obviate aerial contamination that the carbolic spray was introduced. This has now been replaced by gentle irrigation with the less irritating antiseptics, although many surgeons, rejoicing in the pure atmosphere of well-regulated operation chambers, dispense22 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. with such precautions. We have to maintain our wounds aseptic Ull heahng takes place. A dressing of soft, absorbent, elas c material receives the discharge, so that it may evaporate speedily and not afford a nidus for sepsis. Moreover, the dressing may be impregnated with an antiseptic, and hence cotton wool charged with corrosive sublimate or salicylic acid, or gauze prepared with the double cyan.de of mercury and zinc, are satisfactoJy applications! and render the discharge inert. ' In many cases, no drain is required. In the case of the abdomen .he peritoneum carries off secretion. When wounds are aseptic' wv'' .''i'^^''^ extensive, and where careful dressing has obliterated every cavity, no artificial drain is required. It sometimes happens, however, that a little discharge does take place, and this by evaporation may cake on the dressing, dam up some further residue, and thus create tension. Hence, a drainage-tube should be used in all doubtful cases, for at least twenty-four hours Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics.—Before pro- ceeding to describe the various antiseptics in use and their application one word of caution. _ The more potent the antiseptic, the more likely is it to react injuriously on the tissues; and, moreover, poisonous effects often follow when Carbolic acid, Mercurial salts, or Iodoform become absorbed. Some patients are peculiarly liable to disastrous results, even from small doses, and where such idiosyncrasies are displayed, the offending drug must be at once removed, its effects antagonised, and a milder and less irritating antiseptic substituted for it. Care should be taken to use only pure preparations of the various antiseptics. "Various Antiseptics: (a.) Carbolic Acid.—By far the most useful antiseptic, and certainly that of most general application, is carbolic acid. It is volatile, searching, combines readily with oils and alkalies, and does not damage instruments like the preparations of mercury. It is used in the form of lotion by dissolving pure phenol in water. The strong solution (i to 20) is used for purifying the skin, sponges, towels, and instruments. The weaker solution (I to 40) is employed in connection with parts and instruments already purified, and for irrigation. Carbolised gauze is used as a dressing. Carbolic acid in oil or glycerine is used for catheters and dressings. Caution!—Carbolic acid poisoning exists in varying degrees. The passage of urine which is olive green, and which darkens gradually on standing, is the first indication of carbolic acid absorption, and is in itself of little moment. Headache, giddiness, and sickness are of greater import, more especially when these are associated with the absence of sulphates from the urine. In extreme cases, low temperature, extreme depression, and collapse ensue. Treatment consists in a change of antiseptic, together with the administration of sulphate of magnesium, which, it is hoped, will combine with the free carbolic acid in the system, and be ex- creted as harmless phenol-compounds by the kidneys. In addition, stimulation may be required.ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 23 (b.) Corrosive Sublimate is at present one of the most univer- sally employed antiseptics, being cheap and effective. It is non- volatile. It corrodes metals, and, hence, can only be used in glass, porcelain, or vulcanite. In solution, I to 500, it has been used for the hands and skin, but in this strength it is rather irritating. I to 1000 is the stronger form of solution used for general purification, while i to 2000-5000 is that employed for irrigation. WTien used to purify septic wounds, it should be employed in large quantity, as the mercury is speedily used up by forming compounds with albumen, and the lotion is thus apt to become inert. _ For the same reason it is inferior to carbolic acid for purifyirig the skin. The addition of common salt to the solution prevents this action. Wood-wool wadding, absorbent wool, gauze, jute, and wood- wool are all to be had charged with Corrosive Sublimate, and make excellent dressing-materials. Caution!—Corrosive Sublimate solutions must be used with the greatest care. It is probable that more deaths have occurred from the use of mercurial salts as antiseptics, than from that of carbolic acid. Irrigation of absorbing surfaces—as, for example, the tunica vaginalis and pleura—is fraught with danger. Diarrhoea, vomiting, collapse, and death may rapidly ensue. Absorption is also prone to occur if an extensive corrosive wool dressing becomes saturated with discharge and evaporation be prevented. A moist corrosi%-e application also causes irritation and pustulation of the skin ; hence a corrosive wool poultice is a dangerous agent for purification. In order to obviate the danger so often produced by corrosive subhmate, other compounds as effective and perhaps less irritating have been advocated. Amongst these we may mention sal alembroth, and biniodide of mercury. (c.) Iodoform has obtained a great reputation from its marked deodorising properties, and from its supposed special action upon the tubercle bacillus. The fine sublimed crystals, mitigated with boracic acid or bismuth, should be lightly dusted over the wound. It is an antiseptic in virtue of the amount of iodine which it contains. It is soluble in fats, oils, ethers, &c., but not in water or in serum. Ptomaines also liberate the iodine. It slowly purifies a septic wound, favours the growth of healthy granulations, lessens the irritability of sensory nerves, and prevents the growth of tubercle bacilli. It unfortunately possesses a vile, penetrating odour, which is with difficulty disguised. It may produce erythema of the skin. Iodoform gauze forms a most admirable tampon in abdominal and pelvic surgery. Caution!—Iodoform should always be used with great discretion. There is no occasion to apply it in large quantity to wounds and absorbing surfaces. Children, as well as old, fat, and weak people, are especially liable to be affected injuriously. Fatal results have followed from its accumulation in the deep recesses of wounds after insufflation. The symptoms vary from sudden collapse, associated with brain-symptoms and vomiting, to milder forms of loss of24 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. .appetite, mental depression, and excitement. When the patient complams of feeling its taste and smell in everything, its use must be discontmued, and the patient stimulated and treated lo plenty ot fresh air. The presence of iodine in urine is readily detected by shakmg up a little starch m the urine, adding a few drops of fumioc nitric acid, and the blue reaction is declared. (d.) Boric, or Boracic Acid, is one of the mildest and most unirntating germicides we possess. It may be used in saturated watery solution (i to 30), or dusted on copiously when finely powdered. It is specially applicable in open wounds after their prehminary purification with stronger agents, and highly suitable for irrigating the bladder. It is practically non poisonous (e.) Chloride of Zinc, in the strength of 40 grains to the ounce of water, is a most potent, safe, and lasting disinfectant. It is a valuable medium with which to soak strips of lint for use as plugs after operations in the vicinity of the oro-nasal cavities. It will maintain its action for forty-eight hours. It is, however, somewhat painful, and latterly it has been replaced by iodoform, or iodoform mitigated with boric acid or bismuth. (f.) Peroxide of Hydrogen owes its antiseptic property to its breaJcing up and setting free oxygen gas when it meets with discharge. There is no better agent for loosening crusts or gauze packing, or for penetrating the recesses of a wound or joint cavity. (g.) Other Antiseptics.—Amongst the many other powerful antiseptics, all of which have had their advocates, we may mention salicylic acid, thymol, acetate of alumina, lysol, sttbnitrate of bismuth, todol, and aristol. Mode of using Antiseptics during Operations.—Previous to operation, the skin of the whole part should be washed with soap, and shaved, the razor acting like the strigil of the Roman bathers, and then thoroughly scrubbed with carbolic lotion (i to 20). The skin-purification should be thorough. It is always good, when circumstances permit, to have a towel soaked in carbolic, bound over the spot, for at least twenty minutes before operating (see ante, p. 6). The patient should be warmly covered with blankets. By spreading one or two sheets of mackintosh, covered with carbolised towels, over the clothing, in the vicinity of the field of operation, an antiseptic area is provided, whereon instruments, &c., may be laid with safety. A mackintosh beneath the patient serves to protect the blanket. Everything being in readiness, while the patient is get ting '' under," the surgeon proceeds to disinfect his hands. For this purpose we cannot employ the absolute methods used for the sterilisation of instruments. To obviate sepsis-implantation by the surgeon and his assistants is still the crux of aseptic surgery. No method can be regarded as perfect. Some surgeons use sterilised operating gloves, but the majority trust to vigorous mechanical cleansing followed by the use of antiseptics, and, in addition, rinse the hands frequently during the course of an operation in a sterile or mild antiseptic lotion. Mikulicz strongly recommended as most efficient, time-saving, and economical, the spirit soap of the GermanANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 25 Pharmacopceia. It is sufficient to apply this with sterilised nail brush or gauze for the space of live minutes. One of the most efficient methods is Ahlfeld's hot-water-alcohol method, slightly modified by Schreffer—, (1) Scrub the hands thoroughly in (not over) a strong solution of green soap in water as hot as can be borne. This must last for at least len minutes, and during the time the water must be changed two or three times. Use a sterilised nail brush. Between the changes of water the hands should be well rubbed with sterilised fine sand made from powdered marble or pumice stone. Before the last change, scrape under and round the nails with some convenient blunt instrument. (2) With another sterilised nail brush, scrub for five minutes in methylated spirits once changed. (3) Bathe the hands in 1-2000 corrosive sublimate solution. Cheyne recommends to sponge the hands with turpentine, to wash thoroughly with soap and Lister's "strong mixture" {5 per cent, car- bolic lotion, containing one five- hundredth part of corrosive subli- mate in solution) and a nail brush, then to carefully clean the nails with a knife. The hands, which are now dried, are repeatedly dipped thereafter in 1-2000 cor- rosive lotion, before and during the operation. It is advisable to protect the hands as far as possible from con- tact with septic material. Soiled dressings should be removed with forceps, rubber gloves should be used for septic operations, rectal examinations, &c. Antiseptic Ligatures and Dressings. — Catgut ligatures, prepared according to the various formulzE in the Appendix, are to be used. A difficulty arises in getting good catgut, and it is better that the .surgeon should prepare his own. That supplied by the instrument-makers is often unreliable, and is a fertile source of wound-infection. Under these circumstances, some have pre- ferred to u.se silk, duly purified (see Appendix). As shown by gradually absorbed by the tissues, slower than with catgut invariably slough out. Fig. 2.—Melhods of Closing Wound— I, Lister's wire button suture; 2 and 3, interrupted suture ; 4, suture of norse hair, showing double twist; 5, continuous suture. Lister, this, when aseptic, is The process is, however, much .Should sepsis take place the silk ligatures The finer the silk, and the smaller the26 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. amount left in the wound, the less risk there will be of this. Strips of fresh ox aorta, kangaroo tendon, and allied animal textures have been prepared like catgut. Closure of wounds is effected by sutures of silk, silk-worm gut, horse-hair, or silver wire, which will require removal, or by catgut, which becomes absorbed. The margins of the wound should be closely and accurately applied, each epithelial edge meeting its fellow, and no fat protruding. In wounds which unite by the first intention, and which are aseptic, the "Continuous" suture may be used. It is finished off by slipping the double end of the suture under the last stitch, and tying over that (Fig. 2). Tension is met by the use of Lister's button suture, which gives excellent results. It permits the relaxed edges of the wound to lie in apposition. Similarly we may employ deep buried stitches of catgut. When the edges will not meet we may cover the raw surface with Thiersch grafts. (See p. 36.) Drainage is effected by means of ordinary rubber tubing, glass tubes, or by media which become absorbed, such as decalcified bone tubes (see Appendix) or prepared catgut. There is a great advantage in making separate apertures for the drains at the most dependent part, encouraging union by the first intention along the line of incision. A dependent aperture is made by thrusting a closed forceps from the wound through the tissues, till the skin is tense over it, and then incising. In this way danger of injuring blood-vessels or other important structures is reduced to a minimum. The Dressing.—An efficient covering for the lips of the wound is found in three or four folds of moist carbolised gauze. This does not adhere, and remains soft and pliant. Dressing in copious amount is now applied, arranged so as to bring together raw surfaces, and to obliterate all cavities. It should extend well beyond the confines of the wound. Finally, a firm bandage, splints, and other supports, as need be. When to change the Dressing.—Should discharge appear at one spot, the surface there may be touched with an antiseptic lotion and a fresh pad put over all. If the discharge be in quantity, a new dressing is required. General Remarks.—^\'Ca. absorbable drains and stitches, all may be left untouched for an indefinite length of time should a favourable course be pursued. When tubes and sutures have to be removed, the tubes may be taken out in 24 hours, the deep stitches on the third or fifth, and superficial on the seventh or tenth days. An area of redness around any stitch calls for its removal. A slight rise of temperature generally takes place on the second or third evening in any case, but there is no occasion to dress unless something has gone wrong with the wound, as is evidenced by the rise being over 100° F., by quickening of the pulse, or by local pain or disturbance, without other known cause. Aseptic Surgeiry.—Many surgeons reach the ideal of thoroughly aseptic wound treatment by operating in an aseptic roorn, with aseptic surroundings, dressings, and instruments. In practice thisANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 27 presents but little difficulty, in war it must be well nigh impossible. The method employed by Neuber in his private hospital, at Kiel, is remarkable for simplicity and success. The table, macintoshes, vessels, &c., are all washed with soap and water, and then with 5 per cent, carbolic lotion. The patient has already been well bathed, and the site of opera- tion purified with carbolic lotion. The instruments, which, after the last operation, had been washed, boiled, and put away, are now rolled in a napkin and boiled over a Bunsen burner for 20 minutes in order to sterilise them, and thence transferred to \ per cent, carbolic lotion. The surgeon's hands, those of the assistants and nurses, and the skin of the patient are purified as usual. A copious supply of sterile salt solution is ready. It is practically the neutral saline solution (p. 66) sterilised by boiling. Gauze is sterilised by boiling for half an hour, and is then used freshly prepared, or, hke the sponges, it may be stored in 5 per cent, carbolic lotion, and wrung out of the sterile lotion before use. The operator's hands, and everything that comes in contact with the wound, are purified with 5 per cent, carbolic and are then rinsed with the sterile fluid to get rid of the antiseptic, and leave them aseptic. The bleeding points are carefully secured with catgut, and- the wound flushed with the sterile fluid, poured from a jug. The wound is now dried with the moist gauze, and a pad of the gauze is laid over the raw surface, and the wound is closed by a continuous - suture. Before the last stitches are tightened, the gauze compress is gently withdrawn, and the dressing applied. External drainage is not generally required. The tissues have sustained the minimum of irritation, and are able to cope with the ensuing effusion. Union by the first intention is the rule. It will be observed that sterilising by moist heat is the great anti- septic, and that active antiseptics are retained for objects that cannot be so purified. Iodoform is used in tubercular cases. Separate operating chambers are set apart for aseptic, septic, tubercular, and other cases. The advocates of aseptic surgery generally employ the method of Schimmelbusch. It is more liable to failure than even imperfect antiseptic precautions, and demands the most rigorous, and even reflex, thoroughness of every detail. The operating rooms are con- structed with a view to prevent the harbouring of dust. The walls, floors, and roofs are smooth, their angles rounded off, and they are daily flushed with |y>t water or antiseptics. Table, shelves, and furniture are constructed of glass or metal. Moist heat takes the place of chemical antiseptics for disinfecting, and by boiling the instruments and sterilising the dressings, &c., with steam, asepsis is secured. The gauze dressings, swabs, towels, aprons, &c., are lightly packed in perforated metal boxes, which are placed within a steriliser (see Appendix). Merc they are subjected for an hour to the action of steam, at a temperature of 100'' C. The boxes are then removed, the perforations which admitted the steam closed, and the now sterile contents are ready for use. Of necessity, we28 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. cannot boil the patient or the operator's hands, hence the integument must be purified with antiseptics (p. 24) and then rinsed with sterile salt solution, of which quantities are kept on tap. Sterilised cloths take the place of the more old-fashioned moist antiseptic towels, and the staff array themselves in sterilised aprons, gloves, &c. The instruments, having been boiled for 20 minutes (Appendix), are placed in salt solution or in weak carbolic. Dry sterile swabs are used for sponging and for covering the wound. Over all a mass of sterile cotton wool, sphagnum, or other suitable material is bound to absorb discharge and act as the main dressing. Only a minimum of any antiseptic touches the wound, namely, that contained in the ligatures and the little upon the instruments. Recent advance, especially in the surgery of the abdomen, has been made chiefly under the aseptic method. It is open to question, however, whether the results in general practice are better than those obtained by the present antiseptic method. Sepsis after Operation.—According to the severity of its effects and the local condition of the wound, it will be necessary to remove stitches where there is the least degree of tension, to open up freely, and promote drainage in every way. Daily or more frequent change of dressing will be required. We have to content ourselves with favouring granulation, so that there shall no longer be an absorbing surface. Meanwhile, by the use of cardiac tonics, stimulants, and nourishment, we promote the patient's strength till the poison is thrown off. In streptococcus poisoning, antistreptococcic serum may be of avail (see Appendix). Septic Wounds.—In the case of compound fractures and joint- wounds, where the recesses have been manifestly exposed to septic influences, most thorough and prolonged irrigation must be used. The skin should also be shaved and purified. If the margins of the skin wound are very dirty they may be clipped off with scissors. Where dirt and sand have been ground into cartilage and bone, the bone-pliers and knife may be used to remove the engrained tissues. Do not otherwise remove bone, even although loose. If sepsis be conquered, the weak part will live. Free incisions may be made to avoid tension, and drainage-tubes inserted. Where a sharp end of bone projects, which has been exposed and cannot readily be replaced, it is well to remove it. Wounds which are septic are generally accompanied by pain, fever, inflammation, and unpleasant odour. Strapping. —Strapping is sometimes employed in lieu of stitching, or is put on when the wound shows a tendency to gape after the removal of sutures. Much neater and more serviceable, however, is the use of collodion with unprepared gauze. A strip of gauze should be laid over the wound, and one end of it secured to the skin by painting on the collodion with a brush. When this dries, traction may be exercised, and the skin pulled towards its opposing flap, which is pushed forwards with the fingers, and the other extremity secured in like manner to the skin. The whole extent of the incision may also be fortified by painting with collodion. Kocher combines bismuth with it, and this forms anANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 29- efficient species of non-irritating plaster. A doubled fold of gauze may thus be affixed to each side of the wound, and, when secured, the two may be brought together by lacing, as in Fig. 3. Flexile celloidin may with advantage replace flexile collodion Strapping under an antiseptic dressing, after having been cut to the requisite size, should be soaked in carbolic lotion (i to 20). To this is then added an equal quantity of boiling water, and the plaster is now ready for apphcation. CHAPTER V. ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMi3NT—(Co«/'z«M«a'). Contents,—B. Special Wound Treatment.—Gun-shot, Lacerated, and Punctured Wounds—Divided Tendons—Nerve Injuries—Burns and Scalds—Ulcers—Skin Grafting—Qmnsts—Erysipelas—Whit- low—Blisters. (i) Gun-shot Wounds.—Gun-shot wounds in civil practice are generally caused by accidents with fowling-pieces charged with small- shot, or they result from homicidal or suicidal wounds from pistol or revolver. It need, perhaps, hardly be insisted on, that asepticity of such wounds, as of others, is one of the most important elements in their treatment. When none of the body-cavities have been penetrated, the first indication will be arrest of fiKmorrhage, temporarily with a tourniquet, then permanently. Under antiseptic precautions, portions of clothing, wads of paper, or other foreign .soft matter that may have been carried into the wound should be at once removed, likewise splinters of wood and greatly comminuted fragments of bone ; the Fig. 3.—Closure of Wound with laced adhesive plaster and collodion strapping. B. Special Wound Treatment.3° A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. smiluC^-""'^ ''f '^""''^ "'^^ ^« exploring probe. If small shot in great numbers, or a bullet, have loSged, they should withT.?"^ r ' '"'^T '^''^ should he waJhed out WiUi antiseptics. Isolated pellets may be safely left alone 1 he surrounding parts should be thoroughly cleansed and purified, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the whole fixed in a splint /...rK''''''"^^'''°wu' "^J'"' ^^"'"'"^'^ '^e^lt with elsewhere (see Chap. ix.). When these wounds occur in the Mcra^, little can be done except to stop superficial bleeding, remove superficial foreign bodies, apply antiseptic dressing, and keep the patient perfectly quiet, resting chiefly on the injured side. In ihe skull— besides the general principles already laid down, the indications for treatment are mainly those of depressed fractures of the skull (see Chap. IX.). ' _ Some general rules, framed for the examination of gun-shot wound' m military practice, may be mentioned here. {a) Ascertain, if possible, the exact position of the patient at the moment of injury and the direction from which the injury came. Ihis will greatly help diagnosis of the probable injury and the track of the shot. ' (b) Examine the clothes, to see if any parts are wanting, and nence, possibly carried into the wound. {c) Search for bullets by passing the hand lightly over possible seats. Should symptoms of septic inflammation appear in the track of the bullet, free incisions must be made to permit of irrigation and drainage. (2) Lacerated "Wounds owe their dangers to the damage done to the tissues, and to the frequency with which septic matter is rubbed into them. Even with the greatest care and trouble, it is generally impossible to purify them in the ordinary way. Consequently, the immediate dangers and subsequent troubles of sepsis are specially When a lacerated wound is first seen, the surrounding skin should be cleansed and purified, and the wound itself freed from all apparent dirt. Portions of lacerated muscle ingrained with dirt should be snipped off and the skin, if necessary, scraped with a Volkman's spoon. Afterwards, the wound should be scrubbed with 1-20 carbolic, 1-2000 biniodide of mercury, or i-iooo corrosive sublimate lotion. It may then, after bleeding points have been secured, and torn nerves and tendons brought together with catgut stitches, be protected by an antiseptic dressing. In the hand and arm, however, all doubtful cases should be immersed in a bath of warm antiseptic lotioii. Corrosive sublimate lotion 1-4000 answers well, and cases kept in it for several days show no sign of poisoning. When a viru- lent type of sepsis exists, a 10 per cent, solution of ichthyol in water should be used. The fluid is expensive, but it can be re-heated. Carbolic acid about 1-80 or 100, salicylic acid I-300, or boracic acid, saturated, may also be used, but carbolic is too easily absorbed,* * The warning of extensive .ibsorption of carbolic acid will be given by a greenish discoloration of the urine (see p. 21).ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 31 and boracic acid is not strong enough for bad cases. The fluid should be renewed daily, and every three or four hours part of it may be replaced by hot lotion, as the bath cools. The patient's head and shoulders must be propped up in bed. The bath (Fig. 4) may either rest upon the bed, or be supported alongside the bed, on a slightly lower level than the mattress. Fig. 4.—Arm Bath. On the third or fourth day, or even sooner, the limb may be safely withdrawn from the bath, and treated with ordinary antiseptic dressings. If the patient is unable to sleep owing to the constrained position entailed by the bath, after the first 24 hours it may be used only by day, while at night the limb is wrapped in cloths soaked in the' lotion. The bath is, however, more efficient than the soaked cloths, and in bad cases should be kept up if possible. The best form of bath is that shown in the figure. It is made of enamelled iron, and can be had of any large ironmonger. Many limbs and lives may be saved by this treatment which, without it, would be lost. The difficulties involved in immersing the foot or leg in a bath (Fig. 5) are greater than those met with in immersing the upper limb. A very large metal leg-boot has also been made for this purpose, and might prove of service. Only the parts below the knee, however, could thus be immersed. The leg would require to be fle.xed at the thigh, with the knee raised, or the bath may be supported beside the bed, and the foot allowed to hang over the side of the bed into it. In Vienna, bad cases of burn to the trunk have been treated by continuous immersion of the whole body. Antiseptic "poultices" or irrigation with antiseptic lotions may Fig. 5.—Foot Bath. be employed where the bath is not availafele. In irrigating, a cloth is laid over the wound, and from a bottle suspended over the part a constant drip takes place by means of worsted threads which32 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. act as syphons. A mackintosh cloth must be arranged to carry oft the superfluous fluid. Antiseptic "poultices" consist of cloths soaked in such antiseptic fluids as are used for baths or irrigation. Evaporation is prevented by having the cloths surrounded with viraterproof. It will be noticed that the chief difference between antiseptic poultices and irrigation is that in the latter the part is chilled by the free evaporation which is permitted. If there is much inflammation this is an advantage, but if there is any tendency to gangrene the cold will hasten it. (3) Punctured Wounds (i.e.y those in which the depth of the wound is out of proportion to its other dimensions), owe their danger to risk of haemorrhage, in the first place, and to sepsis and confine- ment of discharge, in the second. Should there be reason, from the appearance and condition of the patient, from the state of the parts, and from the probable direction of the wound, to fear haemorrhage, the surgeon should try temporarily to control the circulation in the part, and after enlarging the wound to find and secure the injured vessel. In an inaccessible region, such as the chest, rest, quiet, cold, and internal styptics are alone available. When rise of temperature, pain, and other signs of inflammation render the advent of sepsis probable, free incisions and drainage are indicated. In ordinary cases, punctured wounds may be treated like compound fractures—i.e., with the view of rendering and keeping them aseptic. (4) When tendons are divided they are drawn up by tonic mus- cular contraction, so that the ends become widely separated. They should, however, be united by chromicised catgut sutures. When there is any difiiculty in finding the drawn up ends, they will be readily brought into view by bandaging from above downwards, while the limb is at the same time placed in the position which relaxes the tendons most. (5) Nerve Injuries.—When a nerve is completely divided, the muscles supplied beyond the point of section remain powerless until union takes place. The expected sensory disturbance may be com- plete, or it may be only partial, or even non-existent, because of abnormal distriljution or anastomosis. As the result of loss of the nerve stimulus, the muscles supplied by the divided nerve begin to degenerate rapidly and shrink. In recent wounds, the severed nerve-ends should therefore be carefully sought for and sutured together with fine chromicised catgut. With a fine needle two sutures should be passed at right angles to one another, each trans- fixing the nerve and sheath about y% of an inch from the cut surface of each portion of the nerve. A few extra stitches may be used to draw gaping parts of the sheath together, but the fewer the stitches in the nerve itself the better (Bowlhy). Subsequent restoration of function ensues. In old-standing cases, the longer the secondary suture is delayed, the less likely is it to be completely successful— the first sign of repair is return of motor power. Pressure paralysis, as, for instance, the wrist-drop, due to inter- ference with the musculo-spiral nerve in the axilla from the use of a crutch, yields to massage, electricity, and superficial stimulation. (6) Burns and Scalds may be considered together as being bothANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 33 injuries caused by heat. They generally consist of more or less extensive injuries of the skin. The depth of tissue affected is not at first apparent, as frequently much is injured beyond what is actually destroyed. The points to be attended to in their treatment are (i) rendering and keeping them aseptic, and (2) preserving them from every form of mechanical or chemical irritation. Since from burns large raw surfaces frequently result, which at first are highly absorptive, the antiseptics employed must be not only unirritating but non-poisonous if absorbed. Hence carbolic acid and strong corrosive sublimate lotions are to be avoided. We may use, however, biniodide of mercury (1-4000), corrosive sublimate (1-2000), salicylic acid (1-300), or sulphurous acid (1-8 B.P.) lotions, boracic acid ad lib., or eucalyptus oil, 10 per cent. After granulations have formed, the risks of absorption are much less. Since heat is itself a powerful antiseptic agent, the affected surfaces will be at first aseptic. The surrounding skin must, however, be thoroughly cleansed and purified, and, as a precaution, the burned surface should be sponged over as well. In all cases where the asepticity is doubtful, an anaesthetic should be given, and the part well scrubbed with an antiseptic. Blisters should be cut and the fluid allowed to escape. Small burns should then be covered with wool and flexile collodion, while larger burns may be freely dusted with powdered boracic acid, and wrapped in absorbent antiseptic cotton-wool. Should asepticity have been ensured, no further dressing should be required. An aseptic bum heals with much less destruction of tissue, with much less local or general irritation and less after-scarring than a septic bum, and with none of its septic fever. When burned or scalded surfaces are septic, the surgeon's first object will be to get rid of all dead epidermis and skin. What is already loose must be peeled off or clipped away, and charcoal poultices (see Appendix), and moist antiseptic dressings must be used to hasten the separation of the rest. Irrigation with antiseptic lotions must be frequent, and in some cases the use of a local bath of warm antiseptic lotion may be employed. When granulations have well developed, their surface should be covered with protective or with a moist antiseptic dressing. The contractions which result from extensive destruction of skin must be obviated by stretching the cicatrices when young. A little may be done by resisting contraction during healing, but generally such efforts only stop the healing process. Skin and epithelium-grafting should of course be practised in large sores. Some surgeons are greatly in favour of oily dressings for burns. " Carron " oil—equal parts of linseed oil and lime water—should never be u.sed, as it has no antiseptic property. Antiseptic ointments, such as boracic, may be used, or lint soaked in a modified carron oil i.e., equal parts of lime water and 10 per cent, of eucalyptus in olive oil. The value of the '' carron " oil is probably that the lime favours the formation of an emulsion between the oil and the water, and that 334 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. the evaporation of the water keeps the part cool. The escape of the water, however, tends to make the cloths stick when they are removed from the sore. The eucalyptus in olive oil does very well without the lime water. Picric acid has been much used in France for the treatment of burns, and its value seems to consist in a combination of antiseptic, astringent, and anaesthetic properties. Mr. D'Arcy Power gives the following notes on its use :*— " The solution of picric acid is made by dissolving a drachm and a- half of picric acid in 3 ounces of alcohol, which is then diluted with two pints of distilled water, or more accurately : Picric acid, 5 g. ; alcohol, 80g.; dissolve; add i,ooog. of distilled water. This is a saturated solution of picric acid. '' The clothing over the injured part should be gently removed, and the burnt or scalded portion should be cleaned as thoroughly as possible with a piece of absorbent cotton-wool soaked in the lotion. Blisters should be pricked, and the serum should be allowed to escape, care being taken not to destroy the epithelial surfaces. Strips of sterilised gauze are then soaked in the solution of picric acid, and are so applied as to cover the whole of the injured surface. A thin layer of absorbent cotton wool is put over the gauze, and the dressing is kept in place by a light linen bandage. The moist dressing soon dries, and it may be left in place for three or four days. It must then be changed, the gauze being thoroughly well moistened with the picric acid solution, for it adheres very closely to the skin. The second dressing is applied in exactly the same manner as the first, and it may be left on for a week. '' The great advantages of this method of treatment are: First, that the picric acid seems to deaden the sense of pain ; and, secondly, that it limits the tendency to suppuration, for it coagulates the albuminous exudations, and healing takes place under a scab consisting of epithelial cells hardened by picric acid. A smooth and supple cicatrix remains, which is as much superior to the ordinary scar from a burn as our present surgical scar is superior to that obtained by our predecessors, who allowed their wounds to granulate." He has been thoroughly satis- fied with the use of it, although its staining properties are apt to be inconvenient. .Another method of using it is by means of "Dr. Delpech's ouate picrique, which is prepared as follows :^—Purified cotton-wool is steeped in a saturated solution of picric acid ; the cotton-wool is then dried in a disinfecting stove ; square sections of this cotton-wool, steeped in water, even in cold water, immediately relieves, and in a short time entirely abolishes, pain. Repeated applications of this wool, moistened, cure burns." A supply of this picric wadding would be a useful part of an ambulance outfit in works where burns were common. Much shock is to be expected in extensive burns, especially in children. Prognosis in such cases is grave, and stimulation is indicated from the first. (7) Treatment of Ulcers.—The general indications for the treatment of ulcers are—(a) to purify the surface of the sore, and free it from irritation ; (b) to stimulate the circulation of the part, if ^British Medical Journal, September, 1896.ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 35 it be sluggish; (c) to remove obstacles to venous return; and {d) to treat any constitutional condition that may exist. (a) Locally, foul ulcers in the skin should be dusted with iodoform, and dressed with lint, exactly fitting the sore, soaked in antiseptic lotion, and kept moist with oiled silk, which overlaps the lint all round with a i-inch margin. Should granulations become oedematous, and the healing be sluggish, stimulate the surface by touching it with blue stone (sulphate of copper), or by dressing with an astringent, such as 4 grs. to the ounce of sulphate of zinc. Bright red, "healthy" granulations should, after being washed with a stream of boracic or weak lotion, be covered with oil silk or tin foil, over which is laid absorbent antiseptic wool, or boracic lint applied wet and allowed to dry, in situ. The region of the ulcer should be kept as much as possible at rest. Thus, rest in bed is generally indicated in leg ulcers, especially if extensive. In the case of ulcers elsewhere, fixation of the part should be carried out by a splint. Where there is any tension on the base of the ulcer, as there generally is in large ulcers the surrounding skin should be relaxed either by the position of the part, or by drawing together the surrounding skin with long strips of plaster, passing near and, if necessary, over the sore. Before remo\ing the dressing from an ulcer, the whole should be softened by soaking with lotion, to prevent any part from sticking in. {b) Tertiary Ulcers of gummatous origin, are generally benefited by free blistering round the sore, in addition to other treatment. In Callous Ulcers the thickened brawny condition of the surround- ing parts may be got rid of by various means, all of which, however, seem to act in common by stimulating the circulation and emptying the lymphatics ; thus, free blistering of the surface of the sore and of the surrounding skin, firmly strapping the part, or compressing it vvith an elastic bandage while the patient is walking about, or rubb- ing and kneading it once or twice daily and fomenting it with hot water, have each and all been found useful. To strap an ulcer, strips of plaster should be cut, J-inch wide and 3 inches longer than the circumference of the limb. The limb should first be bandaged nearly up to the ulcerated spot, then successive pieces of plaster should be applied, beginning just below the ulcer. Apply the middle of each strip at the part of the limb opposite to the ulcer, then bring either end forwards over the ulcer to over-lap in front of it. The bandage should afterwards be con- tmued up the limb, well above the ulcer. Should the application seem too tight, relief may be given by carefully dividing with scissors the plaster opposite the ulcer. When removing the plaster in two or three days, it must be divided at this place, and carefully pulled forwards at each side in one piece. (f ) The need for aiding venous return is almost exclusively found in ulcers of the leg, where varicose veins very frequently complicate, if they do not cause, the ulcerated condition. Rest in bed in itselfA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 36 aids venous return, and in many cases is alone necessary for a cure. Where such confinement is impossible, support to the limb with a firm domet, or an elastic bandage will sometimes suffice. Bandaging acts probably in several ways—, by supporting the venous walls when they tend to dilate, by aiding lymphatic absorption, and by stimulating the tissues by the mechanical pressure. The constitutional conditions most frequently complicating ulcers are the "strumous" and the tertiary syphilitic. The " strumous " taint is best treated by good food, fresh air, and exercise, with cod-liver oil and iron (iodide or syrup of the phos- phates), and malt extract taken internally. In tertiary syphilis, iodide of potassium (5 to 15 grs. thrice daily), is generally indicated, but in cachectic cases, a treatment more like that for " strumous " patients will be found best. Any other general derangement complicating an ulcer, must, of course, be treated ; thus the liver and bowels may require regulation, or dyspepsia call for special diet. A weak heart must be strengthened, and the system generally braced up. (8) Skin-Grafting.—To further the cicatrisation of large granu- lating surfaces, epithelial grafts may be used. In order to attain good results, it is necessary that the granulating area be healthy and asceptic. The skin from which the grafts are taken should be first purified—that of the thigh or arm is usually selected. The method of Thiersch is carried out as follows:—Local anaesthesia with cocaine and adrenalin (p. 18), or general anaesthesia, should be employed during the cutting of the grafts, as this procedure is very painful. The area to be covered is first rawed with a sharp spoon if it be granulating, or it may have been left bare as the result of the operation or accident which requires treatment. It is then puri- fied with antiseptic lotion, covered with a sheet of protective, and a sponge is bound firmly over all for 15 minutes till all bleeding has ceased. The sponge and protective are ne.xt removed ; the raw surface and the integument which is to supply the grafts are well washed with salt solution to get rid of the antiseptic, and the operation proceeds. A keen razor is entered at right angles to the purified skin of the thigh so that it barely draws blood, and with a rapid sawing motion it is carried parallel to the free surface, shaving off a very thin strip of epithelium equal in length and breadth to the razor blade. This is transferred to and spread out upon the sore, and a series are applied until the entire surface is covered with slightly overlapping sheets of epithelium. To prevent adhesion of the dressing, and to facilitate the escape of serum, aseptic tinfoil or protective is laid on, and over all a couple of layers of moist gauze and a firmly applied mass of corrosive wool. The thigh should be dressed in a similar fashion, minus the tinfoil or protective. The extremely thin layer of skin removed leaves a surface which is bedewed with a slight ooze of blood ; healing takes place with extreme rapidity, and the patient suffers no inconvenience. This operation requires the administration of an anaathetic. The conditions should be aseptic rather than antiseptic, since the least amount of irritation gives the best result.ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 37 Direct Transplantation of Skin.—A pattern of the surface which requires covering should be drawn on the skin. The part removed should include all the layers, and the fat adherent to its deeper parts must be carefully removed with curved scissors. The prepared skin is now bound down under a dressing to the bare area rawed for its reception. The wound left by the removal of the skin must be purified, and drawn together with button and secondary sutures {vide p. 26). Caution.—Syphilis, tubercle, and small-pox have been transferred by skin grafting. The skin may be taken from the recently amputated limb of a young healthy person, or from the body of a freshly killed animal. Excellent results have been obtained by using the skin of the abdomen of a puppy (Miles). A smooth-haired animal is preferable, but is not essential. The animal is chloro- formed in an adjacent room till dead. The selected part of skin is then shaved, purified, and dissected up, being freed from sub- cutaneous fat as far as possible. The skin may then be placed in warm boracic lotion, carried to the wound, and applied in strips of about 2 inches by f inch. If the granulations are healthy, Miles does not find it necessary to remove them, hence the patient need not be anaesthetised. More extensive methods of grafting, where a pedicle of unsevered skin maintains the vitality of the graft till it has united with its new environments, do not come within the compass of the present work. (9) Sinuses, or discharging channels which refuse to finally close up, owe their existence to some local or constitutional cause. They may thus be due to a piece of necrosed tissue, bone, tendon, or gland lying deeply, to want of rest, or to a tubercular or syphilitic condition of the lining granulations. The treatment will, therefore, be to remove the dead tissue, scrape away the diseased lining, purify with antiseptics, keep the part at rest, and improve the patient's constitutional condition. (10) Erysipelas and Erythema are, fortunately, much rarer since the introduction of antiseptics than they were a few years ago. They are still hable to appear in surgical wards, however, as patients with wounds septic, though not erysipelatous on admission, may develop erysipelas_ after they have been in the ward for a few days, while other patients, who have had previous attacks of the disease, are liable to have it again in their wounds, although apparently there haj-i been no fresh infection. It is most important to remember the extreme contagiousness of erysipelas, and to take the most rigid precautions to prevent it from spreading. No ca.se of erysipelas should be admitted within the precincts of an ordinary surgical ward, and every patient that shows signs of the disease should at once be removed to an isolation-ward, kept specially for the purpose. The bedding should then be purified', and the bed (as well as wall and floor near it) sponged well with carbolic before it is returned to the ward. When circumstances demand that a surgeon should dress erysi- pelas and other cases on the same day, the latter should be taken38 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. first, and in dealing with the former—besides attention to scrupulous cleansing and purification—the surgeon should wear a clean linen over-all, by which he protects his clothes, and so reduces to a minimum the chance of his carrying organisms away with him. Erysipelas connected with wounds requires that the wounds be treated on general principles, especially providing for free drainage and washing out with antiseptics. The reddened surface of .skin before being wrapped in cotton wool should be painted with tincture oC iodine, which generally relieves the burning pain complained of. Ichthyol ointment (20-50 per cent.) is also a most useful application. Watch must be kept for subcutaneous suppuration, and incisions made as soon as it appears. Generally milk diet is indicated. In bad cases, careful nursing and feeding at short intervals are of the utmost importance. Unduly high temperature may be reduced with the ice cap, or antipyrin. Quinine may be tried, but it often sickens. Free stimulation will be required in asthenic cases. Perchloride of iron in large doses has been vaunted.* (11) Whitlow is the name given to a celluhtis which often attacks the fingers, and frequently spreads up the sheaths of the tendons to the fore-arm. When seen in the early stage, the pain and throbbing may be treated by very hot fomentation. When, in spite of this, inflammation proceeds, it should be treated by warm antiseptic appli- cations, with early and free incisions as soon as suppuration seriously threatens. If the pus have burrowed into the fore-arm before the surgeon has been consulted, his duty will be to ensure free escape of pus and to put the fore-arm in a splint. In bad cases, imgation or continuous immersion is indicated. (12) Treatment of Acute Inflammation by Passive Conges- tion.—Bier has strongly recommended passive congestion as a cura- tive agent in acute suppurations and inflammations, and has treated acute abscess, furuncules, cellulitis, inflammations of joints, and even osteomyelitis, in this fashion with success. A Martin's rubber bandage is appUed two or three times around the limb well above the iiiflam- matoiy focus till a powerful passive congestion is created. Thus, in case of the hand or foot the bandage is applied to the upper arm or thigh. The bandage must on no account cause pain. A fiery red oedema and swelling is produced, extending over the whole limb below the level of the bandage. The bandage is kept on in general for at least ten hours daily. In severe cases it is employed for twenty to twenty-two hours. Between the applications the limb is laid in an elevated position, and dressings may then be changed. Blisters forming indicate that the bandage is too tight, or may mean that an abscess forms, which must, of course, be opened. The position of the bandage may be altered, and it may be slightly padded with gauze if it cause inconvenience or threaten the skin. A rapid relief of pain and fall of temperature ensue. Special suction apparatus has been used where parts were affected to which the bandage could not be applied. (13) Blisters may be considered as the result of so rapid an eSusion of • See Appendix. Sero-Therapeutics.A.VT/SEPTJCS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 39 fluid into the superficial parts of the skin, that the epidermis is raised up bv it Frequently thev are caused bv mechanical irritation, such as the friction of the feet in walking, or of the hands in rowmg ; but they may also be formed by superficial burns, or from the application of blistering tioids, or as the result of severe bruises, or in fractures. They are frequent in erysipelas and are seldom absent in inflammatory gangrene. Their treatment will vary with their cause. Blistered feet may be prevented by avoiding the too sudden beginning of long walks ; by hardening the skin by bathing it in solutions of alum or of chromic acid. 10 per cent.; by using well-fitting thick-soled boots; wearing woollen socks, and by smearing their surface with thin layers of soap, shaved off with a pen-knife, and laid on the inside of the stocking before starting for a long walk. \Mien blisters have formed, they should be pricked with a needle and the part protected from further irritation, if not by rest, by covering the part with protective soap plaster, or, if nothing else be available, a thin layer of soap. Bhstered toes may be wrapped with lint or oilsilk ; but care must be taken to prevent such wrappings from working loose, and so causing more irritation than before. Blistered hands must be treated in a similar way. Should any bhster have suppurated or be much inflamed, the epidermis over it must be clipped away, and a moist antiseptic (such as 1-40 carbolic) dressing applied. Small blisters from burns or from blistering fluids should be snipped, and covered with boracic or zinc ointment (see also Burns, P- 31)- The blisters of bruises or of erysipelas should be snipped, if large ; dusted with powdered boracic acid, and covered with absorbent cotton-wool. In gangrene, the blisters are forgotten in the seriousness of their cause. CHAPTER VI. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. Contents.—General Principles of the Arrest of Hoemorrhage — ' Xatural" and ".Artificial" Arrest—A. Primary Hsemorrhage —Temporary Closure of Bleeding Vessels by the Tourniquet, Elastic Bandage, or Elastic Band— " Bloodless" Method of Operating—Various Applications of the Tourniquet—Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels by (i) Ligatures; (2) Torsion; (3) Acuoressure; (4) Pressure; (5) Use of Heat and Cold, Cautery. .Stypics, &c. — B. Secondary Hsemorrhage — C. Eeactionary Hsemorrtiage. General Principles of the Arrest of Haemorrhage. Although it is not within the scope of the present work to discuss points of surgical pathology, still a reference to the phenomena that have been traced in the closure of divided bloodvessels will greatly help us to understand the various means which surgeonsA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 40 have devised to stop bleeding in wounds, whether it occurs at the moment of injury, or during the after-process of healing. Stated in general terms, every method of arresting Haemorrhage ("natural" or "artificial") involves (i) an immediate blocking of the vessel's mouth, by some mechanical obstruction not involving minute tissue changes; (2) a sealing of the end or ends of the vessel by plastic lymph, becoming afterwards (by a larger prepon- derance of cells and the development of capillary blood-vessels) granulation-tissue; and (3) a process of cicatrisation, by which the ends of the vessel are firmly closed by permanent and fully formed tissue. Although, for convenience of description, these stages are separately described, it must be remembered that they pass insensibly into one another and, so to speak, over-lap. From the moment that the vessel is wounded, and the mechanical obstruction is applied to preserve the patient's life, the vital processes which produce the second stage begin to act, and probably long before the whole mass of granulations has hieen fully developed, parts of it have begim to form the final cicatricial tissue. As the conditions brought about in the two later stages belong to processes which involve active changes in the tissue themselves— processes which, for want of a better word, we may call vital—it is not unnatural to expect that these two stages will be very much alike under all circumstances, and in whatever varied ways the conditions necessary to the first stage may have been brought about. And, indeed, the more accurately the processes involved in the healing of vessels are studied, the more distinctly does this come to be recognised. Leaving aside here the discussion of the many abstruse questions included under the general terms in which the two later stages have been stated, we may return to the first stage, and see how its conditions may be carried out. The '■'■Natural" Arrest of Hemorrhage.—If we confine our attention to Arteries, in the " Natural " arrest of Hemorrhage—J. in the cessation of bleeding which occurs when the parts are simply left to nature—the details of the process vary somewhat according to whether the vessel be cut only partially or entirely across. In the latter case, the artery contracts at the point of division, and at the same time retracts within its sheath in virtue of the state of elastic tension in which it normally lies. The blood, as it spurts from the open mouth of the vessel, deposits itself in the form of blood-clot, partly in the now empty sheath, and partly in the surrounding tissues of the wound. This clot gradually increases, forming layer by layer from the blood as it flows, until, if the vessel be a small one, say, a digital artery, the external plug so formed, in addition to the con- traction of the coat, stops the bleeding. Should the vessel be a large one, say, the femoral, the current of blood will sweep away any clot that forms, and the patient will rapidly bleed to death, unless other aid be at hand to save him. Again, should the vessel be a medium-sized one, say, the radial, although the clot will be swept away at first, the rapid loss of blood will cause fainting, and during the period of enfeebled circulation which exists while theARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 41 fainting lasts, a clot may have had time to form, large and firm enough to resist further bleeding when consciousness, and with it quickened circulation returns. After the mouth of the vessel has been closed by this external clot, a thrombus or internal clot forms inside the vessel, and, extending up within it for a variable distance, still further resists the force of the blood-stream, although it probably is not in itself quite sufficient for that purpose. In the " N'ahiral" arrest, therefore, when the vessel is divided across, the mechanical agent is the contraction of the vessel and the presence of an external blood-clot aided by an internal one. Should the artery be only partially divided, the retracting tendency makes the wound in the vessel gape the more, so that the outer clot has less chance of forming than if the division had been complete. Under favourable circumstances, however, the clot does form, and unless the current be so strong as to make it yield and produce a false aneurism, the processes of healing will go on as in the first case. A\Tien an artery, instead of being cut across, is torn, twisted, or bruised across, its inner and middle coats are curled up inside the outer one, and so, by blocking the lumen, stop the bleeding; when, in addition, the outer coat is either twisted or drawn out into a fine thread, the occlusion is still more complete. Probably when the inner coat is thus injured, the internal clot or thrombus forms more strongly, and acts more efficiently in closing the vessel, than when it is divided by a clean cut. Tke ArtificiaV Arrest of Hamorrhage.—lx\ " Torsion" and "Forcipressure," therefore, whether deliberately performed by the surgeon, either directly with forceps, or indirectly by the use of the ecraseur, or cold snare, or accidentally done by the violence of machinery, the mechanical or occluding agent is the twisted, bruised, or torn ends of the broken vessel, aided by the formation of an internal clot. In a Ligature as usually applied, the mechanical agent is the tight band round the tough outer coat, after the inner and middle coats have given way and have retracted. An internal clot is also formed in this case, but is not of great service in maintaining the occlusion. By the time the process of sealing up by granulations has been completed, the ligature is useless. In the old days of silk ligatures in septic wounds, the ligature, being saturated with fermenting dis- charges, was a source of irritation to its surrounding granulations, and became loosened by making them suppurate. If the suppurating or liquefying process went too far into the sealing mass, the vessel was opened again, and secondary haemorrhage, formerly very common, was the result. In aseptic wounds, on the other hand, the ligature of catgut, silk, or other suitable organic material, is absorbed by the granulation cells, and disappears without any suppuration at all. The risk in these cases is the softening not of the sealing mass, but rather of the ligature, or of its slipping before the sealing mass is ready to take its place : or, on the other hand;42 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. in a large vessel, the risk lest the sealing mass—even when fully formed—should not have a consistence strong enough to resist the pressure of the blood-stream. Some surgeons have recently urged a return to a method which was advocated, but given up prior to the introduction of antiseptics— namely, the application of the ligature—so as to obliterate the lumen of the vessel without rupturing its coats. For vessels of the size of the femoral artery and under, this method is not called for, as the usual method is perfectly safe under antiseptic precautions, and easier to apply. For larger vessels, there is room for difference of opinion. Burrell of Boston, for instance, ligatured the innominate artery with silk with two ligatures placed half an inch from one another. The proximal one was drawn tight and the coats of the vessel gave way under it, the distal ligature, although not drawn so tight, yet caused some rupture of the coats. The patient lived to the 104th day and died of heart failure. The proximal ligature had cut its way through the coat of the artery without causing hsemorrhage, and was found inside the restored lumen. The distal ligature had led to complete obliteration. The wound had remained aseptic. Ballance and Edmunds, after discussing the merits of the various ligature materials available for large vessels, conclude thus: "The choice then must fall on ox peritoneum, kangaroo tendon, or boiled floss silk; and failing these, on boiled Chinese twist, chromic catgut, or silk worm-gut." They strongly recommend the use of what they have called a " stay knot" (Fig. 6). This consists in a double thread Fig. 6.—" Stay Knot" (after Ballance and Edmunds). passed round the artery ; each portion is tied separately in the first stage of a reef knot, then the two ends on either side are taken together and treated as one, to complete the reef knot. When External Styptics are used, the mechanical agent is probably either (i) a firmer than natural clot induced directly by the hot iron, caustic, or chemical agent, or indirectly by the altered state of the surrounding tissues ; (2) an occlusion of the mouths of the vessels by shrivelling and spasm either of the surrounding parts, of the vessels themselves, or of bolh. When internal styptics are used, either the coagulability of the blood is increased, or a conditionARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 43 of temporary ancemia of the part is caused by local spasm of the arterial walls, producing a result like that occasioned by the general slackening of the circulation in fainting. One or all of these conditions may be present in the use of different agents, their exact action, however, in the case of many known to be useful is not certain. If we have clearly grasped the general principles involved in the above sketch, we shall the more easily be able to understand what the various kinds of hemorrhage are, and be better prepared to apply intelligently the practical rules devised to meet them. Three kinds of hemorrhage have been recognised by surgeons : — I. Primary, that which occurs at the moment of division of the blood-vessel; 2. Reactionary, that which appears on the return of quickened circulation after a collapsed condition—i.e., within six or eight hours of the injury ; 3. Secondai-y, that which occurs during the process of healing of the vessel. A. Primary HaBmorrhage.—During an operation, bleeding may be avoided by temporary pressure on the main vessels leading to the part, with subsequent closure of the wounded vessels by ligature, torsion, styptic, or cautery. In other cases, the vessels, as they are being divided, may be closed by the use of the ecraseur or cautery ; or, again, the vessels may be exposed and seized with forceps before they are di\'ided, being permanently secured immediately afterwards. The Temporary Closure must be carried out differently in different parts of the body. In the extremities (unless when close to the trunk) the main vessel can be secured by the pressure of a tight band, applied by a tourniquet, elastic bandage, or elastic band. {a.) The ToTirniquet in use now is only slightly modified from the original instrument devised by Petit. The instrument is in such frequent use that a description of it would be superfluous. The following points must be at- tended to in applying the band to the tourniquet-. — (i) The receiving side of the buckle must be towards the limb, and about 2 inches of band must be left between the buckle and the first roller ; (2) the band must pass only over the rollers Fig. 7.—Petit's Tourniquet, to show of the plates, SO that when the use of Rollers. instrument is ready nothing should be seen from below but the brass margin-s (Fig. 7); (3) lastly, before being handed to the operator, the two plates should be screwed close together. A pad is generally used with the tourniquet, and is applied differently by different surgeons. Usually the pad, in the form of a medium-sized44 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. roll of cotton bandage, is placed over the main vessel of the limb and over this m turn the lower screw-plate ; when so applied, the pad serves the double purpose of increasing the pressure on the main arterv and preventmg the skm from being nipped up as the tourniquet is tightened, iiometimes the screw and pad are moved to that part of the limb where the screw can be n»ost conveniently reached, leaving the general com- pression of the band to close the artery ; while, at other times, the pad is placed over the artery, but the screw moved away from it, in which case either a second pad or a bandage round the limb must be used to prevent the nipping of the skin. Any of these methods will serve the purpose. Except below the knee, where the first seems best, we prefer the second method. {b.) Elastic Bandage.—For the limbs of children or of thin and emaciated persons, we prefer, what Esmarch recommends, viz., a few turns of a broad elastic bandage, as it controls the vessels with- out risk of injuring their walls, or of bruising nerves and muscles. [c.) Elastic Band.—Esmarch has advocated the use of a strong band of elastic tubing or cord, applied while stretched once or twice round the limb. A diameter of about X inch is used for the thigh, and one or two smaller sizes for the leg and arm and for the fingers respectively. The fastening for the large size is a hook at one end and several links of a chain at the other ; while for the smaller sizes, some clamp, such as Foulis' catch, is generally used. This consists of a double piece of metal tubing, of diameter somewhat less than the elastic, and having a slit in one of the pieces. When the india- rubber is stretched, it can be passed into the slit; and when relaxed, its increased size makes it hold firmly in the tube. Before applica- tion one end of the elastic is held in one part of the tube, while the other end is free. A turn of bandage, to protect the skin, should be applied before the band is put on. To apply the Elastic Band, begin at the end near the catch, and having encircled the limb with the stretched band, hold the ends together with the finger and thumb of the left hand, while the right is passed round the limb for the second pull (Fig. 8). Secure the last turn in the catch. The great advantage of the tourniquet (especially where there are few assistants) is the possibility of easy relaxation and tightening of which it Fig. 8.—Application of Elastic Tourniquet.45 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. permits. After an amputation, the main vessels can be picked up and tied ; then, by relaxing the tourniquet, some previously unnoticed vessels will be found by their spouting, and secured while the tourniquet is screwed up again. The process may be repeated as often as desired. In the interval many smaller vessels will become occluded by the blood- clot which has thus an opportunity to form. When the elastic band or bandage on the other hand is slackened, it must be removed alto- gether, unless, indeed, a Ward Cousin's or other catch be used, which can be relaxed and tightened at will. The " Bloodless " Method of Operating.—A method, known now as the "bloodless" method, of operating was taught in Edinburgh many years ago by Lord Lister, and was afterwards independently advocated by Professor Esmarch of Kiel. The object of this method is to empty the limb of blood before the tourniquet is applied, so that the part to be operated upon may be bloodless. Lord Lister raises the limb vertically, while the patient is lying horizontally, this in itself is generally suiBcient to blanch the limb in a few minutes ; but the process may be hastened by compressing the main artery, and encouraging the venous return by a few passes of the hand towards the trunk. The tourniquet, or elastic band, must be applied while the limb is still vertical. Professor Esmarch produces a similar effect by bandaging the limb, from the extremity upwards, with an elastic bandage, thus forcibly dri\-ing all the fluids out of the limb. Before relaxing the bandage, he compresses the main vessels with an elastic tube, which effectually prevents the return of blood. Dtu-ing an operation, the "bloodless" method permits of the most perfect inspection of the part; but in pro- portion to the thoroughness of the process, and to the length of time it has been maintained, is the intensity of the hypersemia which follows the return of blood. On this account, the oozing which at first occurs from innumerable small vessels is apt to cause a greater loss of blood to the patient than when the ordinary method is carried out, so that the term " bloodless," from the patient's point of view, is far from applicable. To obviate this inconvenience, as many vessels as possible should be secured before the blood is allowed to return; then a sponge should be pressed into the wound, and the limb raised for a few minutes after the circulation is allowed to return. The congestion will soon pass off, and the remaining vessels can then be picked up and secured. Lister's method is simpler, has no tendency to drive pus, blood-clot, organisms, or debris of a malignant growth into the general circulation, and being less complete, although sufficient for all purposes, is followed by a less intense congestion. ^V.i?.—In applying any tourniquet, the maximum of compression should be attained as rapidly as possible, otherwise venous congestion is apt to occur during the tightening of the band. Special Modes of Control.—The application of an ordinary tourniquet to compress the vessels of a limb close to the trunk, or th ose of the trunk or head and neck themselves, is difficult or impossible. It is, however, generally possible to plan an operation at the hip, shoulder, or elsewhere, so that the main vessels can be exposed and ligatured as the first step of the procedure. This is especially necessary where there are few or unreliable assistants ; still, special means for temporary control of the circulation may be adopted in particular cases, such asA SURGICAL handbook:: 46 '{a.) Close to the hip-joint, the vessels may be controlled by Compression of the abdominal aorta at its bi-furcation, either by an abdominal tourniquet, with its pad below and to the left of the Fig. 9.—Lister's Abdominal Fig. 10.—Pad and Elastic band Tourniquet. compressing the Aorta. umbilicus, directed backwards, and a little inwards (Fig. 9), or by a large pad on the same spot, held in position by several turns of an elastic bandage or tube (Fig. 10), or by Professor MacEwen's method. This is done by an assistant, who takes up the posi- tion in a line with the patient's umbilicus, which is indicated in the figure (Fig. 11). The knuckles of his right hand are placed on the abdo- men, a little to the left of the middle line, the lowest knuckle —i.e., that of the index finger— being at the upper border of the umbilicus. He then leans in this way upon the lower part of the abdominal aorta, and with his left fore-finger on the femoral artery, first on one side, then on the other, gauges the pressure necessary to control the circulation. Pressure can be easily maintained for half an hour or longer without fatigue. In none of these methods •need the temporary compres- sion of the intestines be feared. The real objection is rather the hindrance to respiration, which in an enfeebled patient may seriously complicate anaesthesia. Fig. II.—Professor MacEwen's Method (after MacEwen).ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 47 (2) IVyeth's Method of Elastic Compression with the help of pins is an improvement upon a method introduced by Professor Spence. The patient is laid on his back, with his sacrum resting on the corner of the operation table (Fig. 12). To prevent the elastic tourniquet Fig. 12.—Wyeth's Method of using Pins in Amputation at Hip-joint (after Wyeth). from slipping after the head of the femur has been disarticulated, two spear-pointed steel pins, J inch thick and 10 inches long, are used. One is entered ^ inch below and a little to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, and is driven for 3 inches superficially through the skin and muscles, and brought out on the outer side of the thigh at the same level as its point of entrance. The other pin enters at a point i inch below the angle of the symphysis, and after passing through the tendon of origin of the adductor magnus, is brought out h inch below the tuberosity of the ischium. The points are guarded with pieces of cork (small pieces of metal tubing would be preferable). A pad of sterilised gauze 4 inches square and 2 inches thick is next laid over the femoral vessels where they cross the pubes. A strong india-rubber tube, | inch in diameter (when unstretched), and long enough to go five or six times round the thigh, is then wound tightly round above the pins. Wyeth recom- mends that the main vessels should be ligatured before the head of the femur is disarticulated. (3) Where the head of the femur can be left in position until the main vessels have been secured, bleeding may be controlled by an elastic tube encircling the thigh, and carried round the pelvis after being crossed above the great trochanter. To prevent it slipping down the thigh, two supporting bands should draw it upwards at the inside—one in front, and one behind. These may be secured round the trunk or held by assistants (Fig. 13). A large pad and an elastic bandage may also be used to compress the external iliac (Fig. 14). ii^) Digital Compression 0/ the External iliac against the pubes in children, or in adults by a powerful hand, while the posterior vessels are ?>eing compressed by a pad over the sciatic notch. Most surgeons, hov/ever, prefer the security afforded by mechanical means. tb) Close to the Shoulder-Joint.—Many operations can be48 A SURGICAL handbook:. planned, so as to allow the main vessel to be exposed and grasped before it is divided. The third part of the subclavian may be com- pressed against the first rib by a firm pad pressed downwards from above the clavicle by an assistant (Fig. 15). For this purpose, an india-rubber tipped compressor has been devised, but the handle of a door-key or other similar instrument, well padded, acts nearly as well. Keen recommends the following plan :—" A suitable roller bandage, 2 inches wide, is placed above the clavicle over the position of the artery as ascertained by the touch." Esmarch's elastic bandage, well-stretched, is then wound over it. In order to keep the pad Fig. 13.—Elastic Tourniquet applied for Amputation at the Hip-joint. Fig. 14.—Elastic Band and Pad for Amputation at the Hip-joint. Fig_ ,j.—Compression of Subdaxaan with Compressor. from slipping down over the clavicle the bandage is made to pass from the front of the chest over the shoulder and down the back, then under the perineum to the front again, once or twice. One or two turns under the opposite axilla are used to prevent the pad from slipping outwards and downwards. Thus no assistant is required o keep the pad in place, but the elastic compression would tend to nterfere with respiration. When the greatest security is desired, Mr Syme's plan should be followed. In a case of axillary aneurism, the ahc^.e the clavicle '.vas incised, and the cellular fs^ue separ- ated to allow an assistant's fingers to reach the artery itself, and holdAKRESl^ OF HAEMORRHAGE. 49 it against the tirst rib. Where it is desirable to control the circula- tion after the shoulder has been disarticulated, Wyeth's plan should be adopted. Two strong steel spear-pointed pins are used ; each is \ inch thick and about lo inches long. One transfixes skin and pectoralis major muscle at a point about 3 inches on the inner side of the shoulder— i.e., just within the coracoid process. The other transfixes skin, deep fascia, and muscle on the dorsal aspect of the scapula, about the same level. Each pin is hidden in the tissues for about 3 inches, and their points are protected with pieces of cork or metal tubing (Fig. 16). After the limb has been rendered bloodless by Esmarch's band, a piece of india-rubber tubing, about i inch in diameter, and long enough to go five or six times round the shoulder, is wound tightly round above the pins. This will remain in position after dis- articulation of the shoulder is complete. Sometimes the axillary artery can most readily be controlled by elastic tubing (Figs. 17, 18), which is removed after the main vessels have been ligatured. 'ig5. 17 and 13.—Elastic Tourniquet compressing Axillary Artery. In the neck, the common carotid may be temporarily compressed agamst the cervical vertebrae, by inserting the fingers beneath the stemo-mastoid and pressing directly backwards. The "carotid" tubercle—z.e., the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra—is the best position to take ; but the operation is always a painful one Owing to the freedom of anastomosis across the middle line, not much 13 to be expected from compression of the vessels of the face or scalp. ihe facml arUriis m3.y held against the lower jaw just in front of the masseter ; the temporal arteries, against the sides 4 Fig. 16.—Wyeth's method of using pins in amputation at shoulder (after Wyeth).A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of the frontal bone, or upon the zygoma, just in front of the ear; and the occipital arteries, against the occipital bone between the external occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. The coronaries of the lip can be easily controlled by the grasp of an assistant's fingers, or by special forceps. The lingual arteries may be compressed, as Mr. Christopher Heath advises, by passing the fore-finger behind the tongue, and hooking the soft parts forward and inwards against the lower jaw. This may often be useful in an emergency. Even where feasible, it would be inadvisable to apply any means for temporarily controlling circulation for longer than from four to six hours, lest the tissues should be so starved by want of nourishment, that they would inflame or become gangrenous when the blood returned. Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels.—The means at our disposal of immediately closing divided vessels are many :— (l) Ligatures.—The mouth of the artery or large vein, being grasped with forceps, is slightly drawn out from its sheath, and secured by a ligature. Formerly, a curved needle on a handle or tenaculum was passed into or near the vessel, so that it might be Fig. 19.—Artery Forceps (sharp pointed). raised; afterwards, sharp-pointed forceps were adopted with a catch to keep them shut (Fig. 19), these being' subsequently improved, so as to make the thread slip better over their end (Fig. 20); while, more recently, pressure forceps have been introduced, of which there are many modifications of Koeberle's original pattern. The best are, perhaps, the strong conical-ended Fig. 20.—Fenestrated Artery Fig. 21.—Plan's Forceps. Forceps. forceps, known as " Wells' forceps," from their having been modified by Sir Spencer Wells ; although many similar instruments, such as Pean's (Fig. 21), Tail's, Greig Smith's, or Kocher's are in use, according to the taste of the surgeon. In order to facilitate thorough cleaning, most patterns of forceps, as indeed of other two- bladed instruments, are now made so that the blades can be detached at pleasure.51 ARUEST 01' HEMORRHAGE. During the progress of an operation, the mouths of bleeding vesselscan be secured by these pressure forceps as they are divided, or just before it, if the vessels can be seen, and the surgeon may proceed with his work, leav- ing, perhaps, ten or twelve pairs of for- ceps hanging on to the surface of the wound. In a few minutes he may re- turn to the forceps, and find, after tying the larger vessels, that the squeezing of the smaller ones has completely closed them. Tying of Arteries. In tying the arter- ies, the forceps should be drawn by an assis- tant, obliquely away from the person who ties, as soon as the ligature has been passed round the ar- tery (Fig. 22). As the first knot is being tightened, the handle of the forceps should be lowered more and more on the side away from the knot, to lessen the risk of including their points. On the knot side, the operator's forefingers ensure that the thread passes well over the forceps. When the thread, thus guided on to the Fi. «.-T.i„, K„f Kno.. .e.Hod. Sg'^Smly^'rU! e forceps must be slipped off, so as to allow of additional tightening.52 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. The second knot may then be made, and a third, if necessary. Although a single turn is generally sufficient, a double turn, although more difficult to tighten, lessens the risk of slipping before the second knot is made, and may sometimes be needed. From time im- memorial, the reef-knot has been advocated as imperative lest the thread should slip, and it ill becomes us to discredit this practice. We shall only say, however, that sailors prefer the "reef-knot (Fig. 23) to the "granny" (Fig. 24), less because the former is more Fig. 23.—The Reef-Knot. Fig. 24.—The Granny. secure, than because it can be pushed out and undone more easily. The difference between the two knots is in the second twist. If each end, after being twisted round the other once, be brought back on itself past the other before being twisted a second time, the "reef" will be formed. If they crossed over at once, the "granny" will be the result. . r, » Two simple ways of ensuring the constant formation of a reet-knot are illustrated by the figures 22 and 25 respectively, where the operator is supposed to be looking at his own hands. In each method the work is done in the same way by each hand alternately. To begin with, the ligature being held in the right hand is passed round the forceps to the left hand. In the method shown m figure 22 the right hand is prone as it grasps the ligature, the free end of which points to the left and is at the radial side of the right hand (a). The right hand is then supinated, but in such a way as to keep the ligature still pointing to the left. Next the left hand brings its end over that in the right hand and places it between the fore and middle fingers of the right hand which then grasp it [b). The left hand then lets go its own end and grasps the other one. In this way the ends of the ligature change hands. The right hand then draws on the end which lies between its index and middle fingers and pulls it through so as to form the first stage of the knot (^). The kno is tightened by the ligature being firmly held by the ring and httle fingers of each hand while it is guided over the forceps and strained transversely by the forefingers (d). At this stage the forceps are taken off by the assistant so that the knot may be fully drawn in. When this has been done the second stage of the knot is begun by the left hand grasping its end of the ligature exactly as the right hand originally did (.) After this the process is the same as before only with the left hand replacing the right and vice versd. In7he method shown in figure 25, the right hand is supme a crasps the ligature, the free end of which, also pointmg to the left, is few at the ulnar side of the hand (a). The right hand now remains53 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. supine while the left hand brings its end behind that held in the right hand and then across and in front of the same. The left hand next places its end between the fore and middle fingers of the right hand which then grasp it (3). After this the left hand lets go its Fig. 25.—Tying the Reef-Knot, second method. own end and grasps the other one, and so on as before. Either method is equally good. When working in a cavity, the use of the forefingers as pulleys, to make the strain transverse, and so prevent the knot from l3eing pulled off the vessel (Fig. 22, d), is specially important. The ligature should be a foot long, to permit of this firm grasp. It is not necessary to tie the smaller vessels on the face of an easily accessible wound with the same care as a main vessel, or a smaller one in a cavity. Joseph Bell employs a long ligature, which he holds in his left ha.nd, and uses repeatedly, saving both time and ligature. The ends do not change hands, and the shorter one in the right hand is passed round the other (alternately over and under), and is always grasped again by the same hand. In practice the method answers well. In drawing on the first twist, the hands should be crossed,* and the thumb of the right hand used like the forefinger to guide the thread. This in an open wound is no objection. The single long end remains coiled up in the left hand, or twisted round the left little finger. Facility in tying arteries is an important accomphshment, and saves much time in an operation. Every young surgeon should practise the art with string on a piece of cloth, until he can do it without effort—reflexly, or in the dark. When a large artery is tied in its continuity, the knot must be a " reef," firmly and securely fastened with, perhaps, two or three extra turns. For different materials used as ligatures, see Appendix. (2) Torsion. —For the smaller vessels, all that requires to be done is to seize the open mouth with pressure forceps (Fig. 20), or special torsion forceps (Fig. 21); draw it out a little, and twist it four or five times round—some say, until it breaks off, but this is not necessary. Larger vessels may be steadied after being drawn out by • Even if the hands be not crossed the first time, the knot will be drawn pro- perly the second time.54 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. one pair of forceps, while they are twisted three or four times round with another pair. Experience has shown that torsion is a perfectly safe method of closing even the largest vessels. However, for large vessels anywhere, and for smaller ones, unless when lying in unusually lax tissues (as in the scrotum, or iDeneath the mucous membrane of the rectum), ligature under antiseptic precautions with absorbable material, is equally efficient and more rapid, as obviating the need for so carefully isolating the vessel. A modification of torsion is forcible pulling out. Victor Horsley, in excising the thyroid gland of monkeys, seized the arteries, and drew them out from the gland, until they tore away. The broken vessels were in this way simultaneously divided and closed, and gave no further trouble. Under certain circumstances, this method might be useful. (3) Acupressure has now fallen almost entirely into disuse. It was introduced by the late Sir J. Y. Simpson to obviate in a decomposing wound the irritation of silk threads, which only con- ducted the septic mischief closer to the wounded and healing artery. One of the methods employed may be sometimes useful on the scalp, or in the face, where there is difficulty in finding the wounded vessel, and where further cutting is undesirable. This method con- sists in passing below the vessel, at a little distance from the wound, a needle, round whose projecting ends a loop of wire or silk is after- wards wound, so that the artery is compressed between the needle and the silk. (4) Pressure directly over the wounded vessel will stop the bleeding in any artery, although, owing to the simultaneous pressure upon companion-veins, and on other structures, the method is inconvenient. Wounds of any of the palmar arteries are frequently treated by graduated pressure, although general pressure often succeeds as well. The arteries of the palm are difficult to reach, and lie close to large nerves; moreover large cicatrices are undesirable there, hence the need for pressure. Graduated pressure is produced by a series of successively larger pads of lint, beginning with one that just fits into the wound, until a conical plug is formed. This, when bandaged in place, presses upon the wounded part, and generally stops the bleeding. At the same time the circulation in the hand should be lessened, by firmly bandaging the forearm, by placing pads over the radial and ulnar arteries at the wrist, by flexion of the forearm, and by raising the hand by fixing it at the opposite shoulder. The pads used in the wound should be soaked in antiseptic lotion. They should be removed in 24 or 36 hours, and equable pressure over the wound be substituted. When possible a firm flat pad over the wound should be used from the beginning, as it permits of closure of the wound, and if successful, obviates the risk of an outbreak of the bleeding, such as may occur when the graduated pad is removed. All that has been said of the palm of the hand applies equally, with the necessary modifications, to the sole of the foot. (5) Use of Heat and Cold.—As the result of experiments onARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 55 vessels and muscular tissue ot" the uterus of rabbits, Milne Murray has shown * that— " (i) Water, at temperatures of 120° F. and 10° lower, contracts blood- vessels, and arrests haemorrhage from small arteries. " (2) Water, at temperatures of 100° and 30° or 40° under, dilates small vessels, and promotes haemorrhage. "(3) Water, at temperatures of 50° F. and 20° under, checks hsemorrhage by constricting blood-vessels, but this only temporarily. " (4) After water at the above temperatures has lost its styptic power, water at high temperatures is still effective." These experiments have been fully verified by clinical experience in postpartum hsemorrhage. The more efficient and lasting effects produced by hot water—i.e., at temperatures between 110° and 120° F.—as well as the diminished risk of its inducing shock by extracting heat, would lead surgeons to employ it in many cases where formerly cold was used. In bleeding from inaccessible cavities or deep wounds, for instance, the injection of hot sterihsed water has been found of great service. Hot water has also the advantages of being generally more readily available than very cold, and, after it has been boiled, ol being at least aseptic. The observations hitherto have been made chiefly directly on wounded surfaces and upon bleeding mucous membranes, which seem to stand without damage a temperature which would blister the skin. If we have to produce constriction of vessels at a distance below the skin by the continued action of either heat or cold, we should prefer the latter. It would be more difficult to maintain the constricting high temperature on the deep parts, and, if it were maintained, its effects on the intervening tissues would be serious. When temperatures from 120" to the boiling-point and onwards are brought to bear on the tissues, effects other than those produced merely by muscular spasm are seen. There is (besides injury visible only by its results) first coagulation of albuminous sub- stances and softening of connec- tive tissue; a higher temperature still more coagulates the one and hardens the other; while the temperature of dull red-hot iron coagulates and hardens all * Ed. Med. Journal, Sept., 18S6.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. _ Caidery.—T\\e. actual cautery is thus a most powerful styptic as It, when properly applied, shrivels up all the tissues into a hard m^s The greater the heat, the more rapid and the more superficial its effect ; so that if a blunt-edged blade be used white-hot, the vessels bleed nearly as much as if they had been cut across with a sharp knife ; while if a dull-red or black heat be employed, the progress is slower, but the shrivelling and occlusion of vessels complete. Pacquelin's thermo-cautery is used where vascular textures not easily accessible have to be divided (Fig. 26). It is also of service in searing the skin, or otherwise, where the actual cautery is required. In using this instrument, the knife must be heated to redness in the spirit-lamp before the benzoline vapour is blown in, otherwise the knife is only cooled by the cold blast. The galvano-cautery is advocated for cutting through the vascular base of polypoid growths, where direct access to the divided vessels is impossible, as in the removal of a fibrous polypus from the naso- pharynx. From what has been already said, the advantage of using the wire at a dull-red heat will be apparent, but it has been found somewhat difficult in practice to regulate the heat. Cold.—Yxom almost time immemorial, cold has been used to check bleeding, and there is not the slightest doubt that cold does constrict blood-vessels. The effect of prolonged cold in producing pallor of the skin is well-known, and probably was the clue that first led to its application to bleeding. Milne Murray's experiments seem to indicate that the direct application ef cold to bleeding parts induces a constriction at first, which rapidly passes off; but since prolonged cold to the extremities seems undoubtedly to maintain pallor, it is probable that some of the special effects of cold upon the skin depend upon its action through the nervous system. When a lowered temperature is desired, we rely on two methods of obtaining it—ice, for direct and indirect effects, and evaporation, for indirect effects only. The former may be applied in an ice-bag, one third filled with small pieces, or it may be used to cool water which is then circulated in Leiter's tubes, or dripped by irrigation over the part, or, if more convenient, a cloth may be wrung out of it and laid over the part. Should cold injections be required, the ice may be put in the water or lotion. The great physical fact, that evaporation requires heat, and that fluids will abstract the heat they want from surrounding parts, in order to evaporate, is often turned to account when a low temperature is wanted— e.g., a wet cloth laid over the skin, and allowed to evaporate, will chill the part it lies on, hence the risk of wet clothes. If fluids which evaporate more quickly than water be used, the cold will be so much the greater ; hence the use of alcohol and solutions of carbonate of ammonia in evaporating lotions (see Appendix). One of the most volatile of available fluids is ether. When the evaporation of this is hastened by a blast of air, the freezing-point is easily reached. Cold, as a haemostatic, is chiefly recommended for haemorrhage in internal organs at some distance below the surface—such as in suspected haemorrhage from the brain. The cold must be so applied57 ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. as to effect the constriction of the vessels ot the affected part, or that of the main vessels leading to it. Its application must be continuous, but not sufficiently so as to lower vitality to any appreciable extent ; hence the need of care in its use. Formerly, cold injections were used for bleeding mucous membranes and for deep oozing wounds ; but where a fluid at a temperature of abwut iio° can be brought to bear upon them, we should advocate its use instead. Application of Styptics.—Of the many styptic agents which have been employed, it is only necessary for us to explain the use of a lew. No matter what the styptic is, it should always be applied directly to the mouths of the cut vessels, without any intervening blood or blood-clot. Thus, when an operation has been performed upon a part in which the circulation can be controlled by a tourniquet, if a stj'ptic is to be used, it should be applied before the tourniquet is relaxed in order that its full effect may be obtained. Of course, we may wish to apply styptics while bleeding is still going on. Then we must do our best to first sponge the surface clean and remove all the clots which have collected in the wound. A styptic, when mixed with blood on the surface of a wound, only makes a cloggy mass, which, while not stopping the bleeding point, hides it from subse- quent attempts. Various Styptics. —Powdered alum and matico leaves are recom- mended as styptics, but are not often used. (a) Adrenahn.—By far the most efficient agent is adrenalin, or other similar preparation of the active principle of the supra-renal gland. It acts by causing constriction of the smaller vessels. The drug is sold in solution, or in a dry form suitable for solution. (b) Tiirpenline, soaked in a cloth which plugs a deep oozing wound, acts well. This may be called a domestic remedy, and is an antiseptic as well as styptic. It is less irritating to the tissues than perchloride of iron. Some hold that the plugs in which it is soaked should be removed at the end of a few hours ; but it is doubtful if any further irritating effect is produced after this time. (c) Tincture of Perchloride of Iron is one of the most efficient stj-ptics in use, but it is, at the same time, one of the most irritating to the tissues, and its application is generally followed by more or less sloughing. It makes a hard sticky mixture with blood-clot, of a dark colour, and unless applied, as above stated, directly to the raw surface, it does more harm than good. It should only be used when unavoidable. It may be painted on the wound surface, soaked in the texture of a plug, or, after dilution, injected into a cavity. (d) Ilazeline, or the active principle of Witch Hazel {Hamavielis virgtnua), has durmg the last few years been found useful as an astnngent and hsemostatic. Locally, it may be applied as an oint- ment, or in solution, by injection, painting, or on a plug. (e) Tannic Acid, applied as powder or in solution, has long been advocated as a local and remote styptic, as well as an astringent. When applied locally, tannic acid precipitates albumen and^^^ay thus be of service for discharging surfaces, but other agents are58 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. preferable for primary hcemorrhages. " As a remote astringent it is valueless" (Stockman). In addition to the above, most of the antiseptic agents in common use, such as solutions of carbolic acid, corrosive sublimate, chloride of zinc, lend to check capillary oozing in proportion to their strength, aided also by the temperature at which they are applied. Peroxide of hydrogen also enjoys some repute. (/') Caustic Agents, especially strong acids, act also as styptics by coagulating the blood and attacking the mouths of the vessels. Of these, nitrate of silver may be selected to stop the bleeding from leech bites, and strong nitric acid is useful for the bleeding which comes from sloughing phagadena, as it checks the disease as well as the bleeding. (g) A hot saturated solution of calcium chloride should be tried. This salt greatly hastens coagulation of the blood, both when mingled with blood and when given internally. Other Means.—Besides local applications, other ways of inducing arrest of haemorrhage are available. The general circulation can be kept quiet by the horizontal position, low diet, abstinence from stimulants or hot fluids, which excite the heart, and freedom from mental excitement; functional rest can be aimed at for the affected part, and certaiti drugs can be administered, which experience has proved to be of service. Ergot, given by the mouth, or injected subcutaneously, seems to act on the vessels of other organs besides those of the uterus, probably by causing spasm of the muscular walls of small arteries. Turpentine, in 3 min. doses, given with mucilage, and repeated every two hours, is certainly of service in bleeding from the lung in phthisis. It might therefore be expected to be of use in wounds of the lung, and probably in other forms of internal haemor- rhage as well. Tincture of hazeline in 5-10 min. doses is also strongly recommended. Wright has drawn attention to the value of calcium chloride in hastening coagulation of the blood, and so acting as a haemostatic. He gives the drug in 15 grain doses, repeated twice or thrice a day. If this dose is kept up, the coagulation, which reaches its maximum of rapidity on the first day, is slower on the second day, and afterwards sinks below the normal rate. Hence two or three doses of the drug will probably be sufficient. He finds it acts very well in hsemophiha in hastening coagulation, and it has proved of much service in bleeding from the lung, kidney, and nose. Its value in choljemia is doubtful. . (B.) Secondary Haemorrhage differs practically from Prnnary Hsemorrhage in this, that the bleeding comes from vessels whose mouths are softened by granulation, and are therefore incapable of holding a ligature, the surface of the wound being also obscured by granulations so that the individual textures cannot be distmguished. This bleeding is almost invariably from a septic and suppurating wound, and may set in at any period while the suppuration is going on. When silk ligatures were used in septic wounds, Secondaiy haemorrhage was most common at the separation of the ligature about the third or fourth day ; but it might appear at any time, if the ulceration extended to the coats of any large vessel. Tl-ie worstARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. S9 feature of Secondary h^iimorrhage is—the uncertainty of its onset. It often comes on while the patient is asleep, without disturbing him in the least, often while he is improving in health, and when the wound, except for a slight suppuration, seems rapidly healing. On this account, wounds suppurating near large vessels (especially if recently hgatured), must be watched with the greatest care. No foreign body should be allowed to press upon the wall of a large vessel, especially not on an artery. The effect of the resistance of the blood within the vessel and the pressure, however gentle, of the foreign body outside of it, is nearly certain to lead to ulceration through the coats. On no account, for instance, should a drainage- tube be allowed to press upon the sheath of a large artery. Lives and limbs have been lost by the faulty position of a drainage-tube before now. As soon as Secondary hcemorrhage is discovered, check it by " pressure, if possible, upon the main artery leading to the part. Ne.xt, after assistance has been called, find out by the colour of the blood and nature of its flow, if it seem arterial or venous—remem- bering, however, that often in Secondary hsemorrhage the flow from an artery is continuous, and not intermittent, since the blood may escape from a small hole, and flow through blood-clots and granula- tions. Often when the first compression is released, the bleeding has ceased—only to return, however, in a few days or hours, when the circulation has improved and the ulceration again made way. Should the bleeding have ceased when the means of stopping it are at hand, precaution against its return should be adopted. The circulation in the part must be diminished by posture, and functional rest; deep clots should be left undisturbed, superficial ones removed; the wound may be cleansed with antiseptic lotions, and a pad placed over the bleeding spot. In a limb, a tourniquet may be left loosely in place, and special watch be kept against the risk of fresh bleeding, while at the same time the general indications as above are carried out. Should bleeding break out at any time in a smart stream and resist moderate pressure, elevation of the limb, and rest, an effort should be made to detect its source. If from a large artery, and if graduated pressure with styptics fail or seem unadvisable, the only resources are ligature of the main trunk higher up or amputation. If it be from a large vein, localised pressure is generally sufficient, aided by styptics, and by the removal of all obstacles to the venous return. If the bleeding should be in the form of a general capillary ooze, the limb must be raised, and the part injected with a hot antiseptic lotion, or swabbed out with adrenalin solution (i-iooo), turpentine, hazeline, or chloride of calcium solution, after which a dressing with firm pressure should be applied, and the general circulation kept down. Plugging is not generally required. (C.) Reactionary Haemorrhage occurs a few hours after a recent wound, on the return of strong blood pressure after a condition of shock. Blood-clots are pushed from the mouths of vessels, hut remain in the wound as a kind of poultice, which encourages vascular6o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. dilation. To check this form of bleeding, the wound should be exposed, and the amount of bleeding noted. .Sometimes cold or hot antiseptic injections will suffice. If not, the wound must be opened up, and the clots removed. Should this fail, the bleeding point or points must be found, and secured with a ligature. Where no single point can be seen, and if the above measures have failed, reactionaiy oozing must be treated like secondary capillary oozing. General oozing may be expected in haemophilic patients, and in parts congested either from previous inflammation or from undue prolongation of the "bloodless" method. CHAPTER VII. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE [Continued). Contents.—Treatment of Bleeding from Special Parts.—Bone; Fibrous Textures ; Deep Cavities—From the Nose ; Rectum ; after Lithotomy ; from Varicose Veins ; the Prostate ; the Bladder ; the Kidney; the Mouth; the Tonsil; the Palmar Arch ;—Hsemophilia— Digital Compression of the Main Arteries—Transfusion—[a.) Of Water or Saline Solution—) Of Blood. Bleeding from Special Parts. The various rules which are given for stopping bleeding after particular operations, are based—not on any difference in the pro- cesses of healing of vessels in different parts—but upon the differences in their position, and therefore in their accessibility, in the nature of the surrounding tissues, and in the functions of the part in which they lie. As a general rule, when there are no large vessels involved, the use of sterile gauze compresses soaked in adrenalin may be commended. (a.) Bleeding frojii bone may be troublesome, because the vessels have less muscle than usual in their walls, and, besides, cannot easily contract on account of their hard surroundings. Moreover, the hard, dense surrounding bone prevents the application of a liga- ture. If the vessel be a fairly large one, such as the inferior dental, a wooden plug should be pushed into its canal for a few minutes. In most cases, firm plugging of a cavity is sufficient, and acts well, because the surrounding parts are so resistant. The best plug is a long narrow strip of lint or gauze impregnated with iodoform, bicyanide of mercury, or other antiseptic, tucked in upon itself into the cavity. The end or ends must be left out for convenience in withdrawing. It is not generally necessary to leave the plugs in for more than twenty-four hours. Horsley's paste (see Appendix) is often useful during operations. (l>.) Bleeding from firm fibrous textures resembles that from bone. Such textures are the firm subcutaneous tissues of the scalp, or con- nective tissue in any other part of the body matted by chronicARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. 6i inflammation, or that found in a fibrous or fibroid tumour. Here also the mouths of the vessels remain open, and cannot easily be tied, but compression or plugging is effective if the region is accessible. If the bleeding vessel can be reached behind the bleeding point, it may be controlled by the pressure of the pad or compressed by an acupuncture needle, third method. Styptics, and especially the actual cautery, may sometimes be applied to the bleeding point. (c.) In bleeding from deep cavities, besides hot (or cold) and astringent injections, the principle of tamponing may be carried out. This consists essentially in introducing a rigid tube to permit of drainage or maintain patency, and packing round about it. The simplest way to do this is to tie a piece of lint or oil-silk round the deep end of the tube, to form a petticoat, and to distend this with plugs, as has long been practised for bleeding after lithotomy (Fig. 27). Another way is to adapt outside of the tube a distensible india-rubber bag, which can be inflated at will. On this principle depend Trendelenberg's tracheotomy tampon, Buckstone Brown's lithotomy tube, and similar devices suggested for the nostril and rectum. After these general remarks, a few directions may be necessary for special forms of hemorrhage. (i) Bleeding from the nose, or epistaxis, is sometimes extremely troublesome. The patient should stand erect—not stoop—bathe the face and neck with cold water, and sniff air gently through the affected nostril. Raising the arms above the head helps to lessen the circula- tion in the head and neck. Hot injections should next be tried, then swabbing out with adrenalin solution (i-iooo) or some of the milder styptic colloids, plugging the anterior nares afterwards, then plugging also the posterior nares. If this fail, the cavity of the nostril may be packed with a long strip of lint, either soaked in some styptic, or dry. We do not advise the injection of perchloride of iron, as it irritates the mucous membrane so much. Sometimes great benefit results from freely opening the bowels with a large enema or smart purge. To plug the posterior nares, pass a stout silk thread from the nostril round the soft palate and out at the mouth. To the centre of Fig. 27.—Lithotomy Tube, with Plugging.62 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. this, loop a pledget of lint, about the size of the last joint of the patient s thumb, and draw it by the nose-thread into the mouth • work It past the soft palate, with the finger if necessary, and draw it into the posterior nares. The thread in the nose and that in the mouth are then to be tied together over a pad of lint to prevent the thread from cutting. For passing the thread through the nostril, a Belloc's sound may be used ; but an equally good way is to make the silk fast to the end of a gum elastic catheter, which can be easily passed from the nostril into the pharynx ; when there either it or the thread may be Fig. 28.—Belloc's Sound. Plugging the Posterior Nares. drawn with forceps through the mouth. As soon as the silk is secured, the catheter may be wnthdrawn (Fig. 28). In bad cases, the posterior plug may be left in position for twenty- four to thirty-six hours, then it should be carefully withdrawn by the thread left in the mouth. (2) Troublesome bleeding from the rectum may occur from ulcer- ation into varicose veins, or may follow the removal of internal piles. It may be either arterial, venous, or capillary, and is difficult to stop—chiefly because the sphincter prevents ready access to the bleeding point. Should the bleeding continue after the removal of clots and injection of hot water, apply cocaine and use a speculum. If the vessel can be seen, it may be stopped by the application of a strong styptic. Should this fail, give chloroform; stretch the sphincter, and pull down the affected mucous membrane ; search for the bleeding point and tie it. Digital pressure may be employed ;63 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. this was kept up by Syme for several hours in a case wheie he had cut off an internal pile (before he had taken lo the ligature). When surgeons used simply to cut off' internal piles without further pre- caution, bleeding was common, and often fatal. Now bleeding is stopped by tying or crushing the base of the pile, or by cauterising th^ cut surface. When other means fail, the rectum may be plugged with a tampon, care being taken to avoid over-stretching of the sphincter. (3) Bleeding after Lithotomy may be from the veins of the prostate, or some perineal vessel, which, if visible, should be tied. If hot injections and raising the pelvis fail, use a tube and a petticoat, or a Brown's tampon. (4) Bleeding from the Prostate may come on in old men, apart from any operation. It is then probably from varicose veins. The bowels should be opened, and the patient kept recumbent with the pelvis raised. Calcium chloride may be administered internally (see p. 58), and a few drops of i-iooo adrenalin solution instilled into the pro- static urethra, preferably through an acorn-headed catheter. When other means have failed, it may be necessary to drain the bladder. (5) Bleedingfr07)1 Varicose Veins.—Excessive haemorrhage follows the rupture of varicose veins in the lower extremities. While the patient is erect, the flow of blood is backward from the heart. The enlarged veins are frequently buried in brawny, infiltrated, inflamed tissues; but sometimes traverse the base of an ulcer, which may be insignificant in size and appearance. It is in the latter case that danger is to be feared. Inflammation affecting the vein causes thrombosis, and so protects against hsemorrhage, but ulceration, which extends without a preceding area of inflammation is much more dangerous. When the wall of the vein gives way, a great gush of dark blood takes place. It ceases as soon as the patient lies down, and holds his leg vertically upwards. Even while he is erect comparatively slight pressure, if accurately applied, by means of a dossil of lint and a bandage, arrests the flow. (6) Bleeding from the Bladder, when troublesome, is almost invariably from a tumour. No effectual cure can be expected short of removing the tumour, but the bleeding may sometimes be diminished by complete rest, internal styptics, and injections of such fluids as adrenalin solution, or hazeline. Sir H. Thompson advocated the injection of nitrate of silver, "i gr. to the ounce, gradually increased to I gr. to the ounce, or perchloride of iron, 30 min. to 5i- to water giv. Hazeline, ergot, or calcium chloride internally may be given at the same time. (7) Bleeding from the Kidney, when extensive, may be the result of injury, or of an operation upon or near the kidney, or it may arise from a tumour. No direct application can, of course, be made to the kidney, unless there is an open wound. The patient must V^e kept at rest, and on milk-diet. Ergot, adrenalin, hazeline, or calcium chloride may be tried internally. The bowels must be kept relaxed to prevent irritation from hardened fceces. Pain is to be subdued by morphia. Sickness, when it threatens to appear, is avoided by simple and sparing diet. See also Chap. xxiv. (8) Bleeding from the Mouth is commonly from the tongue,^4 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. secondary to some operation. In an emerm-nrv th„ i may be compressed, Ld at the sanrtinTe ISt tSs bTt'^ finger, passed back to the epiglottis and then . i f i ^ *^ to bring the soft parts with t {^Ja//^ If *° artery 5>ay be sec'ured with forclps It^d ti 1 if no°""tf.e rarr^^'/K^ plugged, with styptics, if needle. LluofTeT,yoi7bor.'^^ '° tied-preferably behin^d^th^Vei (9) Bleeding from the sometimes occurs after tonsilotomv and generally comes from an unusual or enla^d "ranch of Th^e ascending pharyngeal artery. Whether the operSn has been doJ^ There ?t wHrST',°'' '\ >^ '^e abnormal arterj b^ there, it will bleed when cut. From the position of the bleedine point a ligature is very difficult to apply to it. Digital ore^urf be'eToS ShoTlT"^"' °^ 1^''^'"- °f - hofspong may De enough. Should these measures fail, clear awav M r\%l Jr^A n!l^l:n" th^ftils'tf"b^, ^" P-'ti- foTfrU^f^ve t; t forcens nnH J ^^^1^'^^e bleeding point can be grasped with artery orThP hi ^- ^ "^^^ ''^L'" P°''''''" f"-- fr^'" to twelve hours^ or the bleeding point may be touched with the cautery. In a few cases, igature of the common carotid has been required ; but Pvir ?^ r'^^^'^ sometimes ensued. Fortunately, how- Zl: f "^'^^^"IS after tons.lotomy is generally slight, and ceases spon- aneously m a few minutes. It is worthy of note that in at least three recorded cases, previously serious bleeding ceased after a f5t ot vomiting, whether spontaneously or artificially induced (10) Bleeding frovi the Palmar Arch has been already alluded to 1 he reason for the difficulty is, that in the palm, the superficial arch IS covered by strong fascia, and lies near large nerves. Free dissec- Uon IS also prevented by the after-inconvenience of large cicatrices 1 he deep arch is out of reach. If a limited dissection give small hope of success, apply firm pressure—possibly graduated-with anti- sejnic precautions. At the same time restrain the circulation in the hands by the methods already indicated (p. 54). Should these measures fail, ligature of the brachial artery would be the ne.xt step. Hemophilia.—The above indications have been made on the assumption that the patient's tendency to spontaneous healing of vessels has been normal. There exists, however, a condition, fortunately rare, where patients bleed long and freely on the slightest provocation. The disease is known as " Hremophilia." and the patients as " Hasmophilics" or "bleeders." The nature of the malady is obscure. The vessels seem normal, but the cause ot the bleeding tendency seems to be an imperfect power of coagulation. Wright strongly advises the internal administration of chloride of calcium in hremophilia (see p. 58). Swabbing the bleeding part with adrenalin solution (i-iooo) should also be tried. Haemophilia is often hereditary, and is probably often present in degrees. In bad cases, a slight pinch of the skin will be followed by extensive ecchymosis, and smaller cuts by continuous oozing. In dealing with such patients, reliance must chiefly be placed upon pressure and styptics.65 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE, Digital Compression of the Main Arteries. Common Carotid.—Against the vertebral column, by pressure directed backwards at the level of the sixth cervical transverse process—i.e., about the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Facial.—Against the lower jaw by backward and inward pressure in front of the anterior border of the masseter muscle. To be of any service, both ought to be simultaneously compressed, owing to the free anastomosis round the mouth, &c. Temporal.—Pressure directed inwards just in front of the external auditory meatus. Occipital.—Pressure against the occipital bone midway between the mastoid process and the external occipital protuberance. Subclavian {third part).—Against the first rib by pressure down- wards and backwards, just behind the anterior curve of the clavicle. Axillary [thirdpart).—Against the humerus by pressure directly outwards, at junction of anterior and middle thirds of the axilla. Brachial. —Against the humerus. The pressure must be outwards at the upper part, outwards and backwards about the middle, and backwards at the bend of the elbow, to suit the altering relations of the bone and artery. The artery continues the line of the axillary to the middle of the bend of the elbow. Radial and Ulnar Arteries.—At the wrist, pressure backwards at either side. Abdominal Aorta (see p. 45). External Iliac.—By pressure directly backwards against the brim of the pelvis, midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. TvOTora/.—Pressure must be made at first backwards against the head of the femur, then backwards and outwards in Scarpa's triangle —in Hunter's canal, outwards. When viewed from the inside—i.e., in abduction—the line of the vessel continues that of the external iliac towards the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur: looked at from the front, the line runs towards the inner edge of the patella. The first point mentioned for pressure is the best (see chapter on Extempore Appliances). Anterior Tibial.—M.\d-wd,y between the two malleoli, backwards against the tibia. Dorsal Artery of the Foot.—Downward pressure against the tarsus between the mid-point of the malleoli and the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones. Posterior Tibial.—7oryis^rd and outward pressure against the tibia, a tnumb's-breadth internal to the inner malleolus. Transfusion. The methods of injecting fluid directly into the veins of persons who are greatly reduced by loss of blood or wasting disease, have been, m recent times, revived and much discussed. The obiects to 066 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. be attained by such proceeding are these : either (i) To add fluid to the circulation, and so give the heart something on which to con- tract ; thus to enable it to utilise the blood which always remains in the veins after bleeding, and to stimulate absorption (water or saline fluids); (2) to add also nutriment to the blood (blood or milk); or (3) to add to it, besides fluid and nutriment, red blood-corpuscles, which will be functionally active as respiratory agents (blood). Of these, while the second is of doubtful value, and the third of doubtful possibility, the first is unquestionably possible, and is often all that is required to save life, especially after sudden hemorrhage. The effect produced has been called the "dynamic ' effect. Aseptic (boiled) water at blood-heat, injected to the amount of about i \ Htre (2f pints) has been found sufficient in an apparently desperate case of post partum hsemorrhage. A warm f per cent, solution of common salt in boiled distilled water (about a drachm to the pint) would be preferable to plain boiled tap water. Various other saline solutions have also been recommended ; but it would be difficult to prove their practical advantage over a | per cent, solution of common salt. Where shock is great adrenalin solution should be added (from 1-20,000 to i-ioo,ooo—z.e., from i oz. to i\ drachms of the i-iooo solution to 20 ozs. of normal saline" solution). Where the patient's system is depressed from want of food from any cause, 5 per cent, of glucose has been added, by Lennander, to the normal saline solution with apparent advantage. Apparatus Needed for Saline Infusion.—A nozzle of glass or metal, for tying into the vein, and a piece of tubing to attach it to a small glass funnel raised 2 feet above the opened vein. Some prefer a syringe. The end of the nozzle, if cut obliquely, will enter the opening in the receiver's vein more easily. A metal nozzle, with bulbous end, is strongly to be recommended. Mode of Procedure.—(a.) In Infusion of Water or Saline Solu- tion.—First retard the circulation in the limb so that the veins may be distended and a suitable vein selected. The median basilic vein is generally chosen, but it may be irregular in size or position. Inject cocaine and adrenalin locally, or freeze the site of the incision (p. 20). Then expose with scalpel and forceps the vein selected. Pass a double catgut ligature under it. Tie the distal one to prevent bleeding. Now fill with saline fluid the previously steril- ised and warmed funnel, to which the similarly prepared nozzle has been attached. Clamp the tube near the nozzle to ensure that it keeps full of fluid, and entrust it to an assistant. Nip up with forceps a piece of the coat of the vein, and incise it with knife or scissors. Enter the nozzle and secure it in the vein with a single twist of the proximal ligature. Before releasing the clamp compress the vein just beyond the nozzle. Now release the clamp and shake the apparatus while holding the funnel vertically. If air has got into the nozzle it will ascend. Should a syringe have been used the piston should be slightly drawn back before the fluid is injected. This withdraws any air that may have got in. Having now excluded air, release the pressure on the vein and allow theARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 67 fluid to enter. N.B.—After the injection is finished, the nozzle is withdrawn and the proximal ligature tightened. If a repetition of the injection is anticipated, the ends of this ligature should be left long for use again. Otherwise, the ends are to be cut short. The wound is dressed with a small pad of sterilised gauze and a bandage. {b.) In Blood TraHsfuston.—This may be either mediate or immediate. The latter involves special apparatus, and does not present any advantage commensurate with the trouble it entails. Clotting of blood in the apparatus or in the recipient's veins is most to be feared. The mediate method may be carried out either (i) by whipping the freshly-drawn blood with fine twigs, so as to remove the fibrin; or (2) by adding a 5 per cent, solution of phosphate of soda (i oz. to the pint of distilled water), in the proportion of one of Fig. 29. - Transfusion of Blood, solution to three of blood, and injecting the mixture. The phosphate of soda prevents coagulation. This, known as Hicks' method, was introduced by J. M. Cotterill into Edinburgh, where it has been largely and often successfully used in cases of pernicious anjemia. While a nozzle is being tied into the vein of the recipient as above, the arm of the giver is prepared for venesection. A bandage is applied to the upper arm to restrict the venous return. The skin over the median basilic is cleansed and purified, and an oblique inci-sion is made through it into the vein. The blood which flows is caught and rapidly stirred in a vessel containing the warm phosphate of soda solution, of which the quantity required has been fixed beforehand. To prevent the mixture from cooling, the vessel con- taining it should be kept floating in a basin of hot water. A glass syringe holding 8 to lo ounces should be made ready by purifying68 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. it with corrosive or other antiseptic lotion, and then washing it out with hot boiled water. A piece of india-rubber tubing similarly cleansed, S or 6 inches long, should be used to connect it with the nozzle in the vein. While still hot, the syringe should be wrapped in a hot towel, and filled with the blood mixture. The method of tying the nozzle into the vein, and the precautions to be taken against the introduction of air, are the same as have been described for saline infusion. The syringe may be refilled as often as required (Fig. 29). Munchmeyer's method of transfusion has been strongly recom- mended. It consists essentially of injecting into the subcutaneous cellular tissue from one to three pints of the simple saline fluid already mentioned. An aspirator needle is thrust into the sub- cutaneous tissue (between the scapulae for preference). To the needle is attached two or three feet of india-rubber tubing leading down from a funnel. The saline fluid is poured into the funnel and is dispersed in the cellular tissue by gentle massage. A syringe could be substituted for the funnel. All the instruments used should be boiled, or first cleansed with an antiseptic and afterwards washed out with boiled water. It is well to remember that advantage may be taken of the rapid absorption of fluid which takes place in the rectum. Large enemata of warm saline fluid will in many cases serve all the purposes of infusion into a vein or into the cellular tissue. CHAPTER VIII. SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. Contents.—Shock—Symptoms and Treatment—Syncope—Wound- Fever—Pulse and Temperature Indications—Treatment—Inflam- mation—Treatment by Antiseptic Poultices, by Blood-letting and by Counter-irritation. Shock.—Whatever be the cause of the condition—e.z-, extensive crushing of a limb, or especially, of the abdominal viscera, severe burn, loss of blood, great pain, or extensive operation—the symptoms and treatment are similar. The Symptoms are pallor, and moisture of the skin—feeble, fluttering pulse—soft shallow breathing, and great languor. The Treatment may be summed up briefly as follows :— (1) Relief oi immediately severe pain by hypodermic injection of morphia, and removal of any obvious cause of suff"ering. (2) Zealous supply of external -warmth by hot bottles, hot plates, and blankets—administration of hot tea or coffee, Liebig's extract, or gruel.69 SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. (3) Improvement of the cerebral circulation, and diminution of stagnation in the abdominal veins by raising the foot of the patient's bed 12 to iS inches. {4) Concentration of the blood in circulation to vital parts by bandaging the limbs firmly from the extremities towards the trunk. This procedure may be adopted in shock from any cause, but is specially useful where there has been loss of blood. It may be carried out while preparations for saline infusion are being made. The bandages should be removed after a few hours at longest. The abdomen may be supported by a binder or broad bandage at the same time. (5) In severe shock, even when there has been little or no loss of blood, injection of saline fluid with adrenalin, into the rectum, cellular tissue, or into a vein is of the greatest value (see pp. 66, 68). (6) As to stimulants, in very severe cases of shock, it is now con- sidered better to omit altogether alcohol, strychnine, and ether, as by their after effects they seem to do more harm than good. Syncope, or fainting, is treated by increasing the cerebral circu- lation, and stimulating the sensory nerves. In many cases, if the patient be sitting when faintness comes on, much benefit will be derived from bending the trunk and forcing the head well down between the knees. After fainting has occurred, the patient should be laid flat on the back, and all tight clothing on the chest or abdomen relaxed. The face may be slapped with wet towels, and the nostrils stimulated with ammonia-vapour. A stimulant of wine, spirits, ether, or sal-volatile should be given as soon as the patient is able to swallow. "Wound-Fever.—(a.) Pulse-Indications.—In regard to the pulse-records, it may be noted that, to surgeons the frequency is of the highest importance, and a continuously rapid pulse may give warning of evil long before the temperature signals danger. Besides frequency, rhythm is also to be noted. A pulse over 120, with variable regularity, always gives rise to anxiety. Previous to opera- tion, there should be a careful examination made of the state of the circulation. The force of the heart's action, as modifying the choice of an operation or aneesthetic; the condition of the pulse, as indi- cating the presence of atheroma ; aortic regurgitation and the tension associated with kidney-disease, are also well worthy of study. Slowing of the pulse is characteristic of cerebral compression. ib.) Temperature-Indications.—Rise of temperature is a con- dition seen in fever and inflammations. Since the temperature is not so likely to be influenced by emotional and slight causes as the pulse, it furnishes more reliable data ; but there are certain dangerous conditions, which are often not characterised by a rise of temperature. Thus we find that some rapid and violent septic poisonings, peri- tonitis, empyema, and also cerebral abscess may exist without it. Again, very high temperatures have been recorded as the result of injuries in special regions—as, for example, in fracture of the cervical spine (110° F.), haemorrhage into the Pons and Medulla, and in some cases of cranial tumour. These, however, are altogetherA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 76 peculiar, and may have relation to heat-centres, more especially since very low temperatures (85° F.) have also been observed in connection with some spinal and cranial lesions. On the second and third day after most injuries, even although subcutaneous or aseptic (as, for example, simple fracture), a rise of one or two degrees often takes place, and the same phenomenon attends on aseptic wounds. This, then, gives no cause for anxiety. It may be due to some waste pro- duct circulating in the blood; but we are in the dark as to its precise origin. A very different rise follows the advent of sepsis. This shows itself generally by a marked and increasing rise of temperature, which, however, gradually falls as granulation advances, and the wound no longer absorbs. Where abscess forms, rigors may take place with marked rise. If constitutional blood-poisoning develops, the temperature may vary from the regular nocturnal increase of hectic to the more erratic jumps and relapses of pyremia. WTien tension is associated with pain, as in whitlow and orchitis, increased heat is also present, and this abates at once on removal of tension. A rise of temperature is of graver import in the aged than in adults, and in adults than in children. Where 104° is reached the prognosis is always guarded, if the temperature does not speedily yield to treatment. The conditions of shock and loss of blood ahyaj's give rise to low temperature. The advent of erj^sipelas is often indicated by a rise of temperature before other symptoms have appeared. Treat?fient.—'We may look upon the most serious accelerations of pulse and temperature in surgical cases as generally due to wound- fever—i.e., a true septic absorption—and therefore preventible. The treatment where this fever occurs, then, is—not so much to lower the temperature by the administration of drugs as—to stimulate the patient, and enable him to combat the poison he has absorbed, and to prevent the entrance of more. Stimulants and strong cardiac tonics are therefore desirable, until the purification and free drainage of wounds amend the local condition. When wounds have become distinctly septic, and general blood-poisoning ensues, the best treat- ment is to remove all the stitches, and purify the wound-surface. In some cases, the part may even be removed entirely, as, for example, in pyaemia or septic gangrene, where amputation may save the patient's life. Irrigation, free drainage, and pure air are necessary. The rise of temperature due to local tension and pain may subside under the soothing application of an ordinary or antiseptic poultice to the part. If the condition persists, free incision is indicated, more especially if pus has formed. The urethra and bladder often exhibit most interesting phenomena in regard to rigors and fever in their reaction to instrumentation. A great rise and rigor often follows the passage of a catheter in some individuals. This is obviously nervous in origin, and may be antagonised by the use of cocaine and morphia. Again, there may be no trouble till the patient makes water. This is sometimes followed by a rise due to the absorption of some alkaloid from the urine. Finally, the urine itself may become infected from a dirty instrument, and from this a true catheter-fever, septic in character, due to absorption, may follow.SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. 71 Where other means have been ineffectual, general and local remedies are required. We may attack the fever by specifics such as quinine, antipvrin, and the like, or act on the skin and circulation, and so cause lowering of the temperature. The most energetic mode of cooling the patient is by means of Letter's iced-water coil. This method is also applicable as a local antiphlogistic in inflam- mation of joints, &c. When there is rise of temperature wilh a scantv secretion of urine (as, for example, after operations on the urina'r>' tract), the hot '' pack " is indicated. This is readily carried out by rolling the patient in a blanket, after placing around him hot bottles enveloped with moist warm flannel or stockings. Inflammations, which threaten to form abscess, often yield to antiseptic poultices. These are made by enveloping the part in boric lint, soaked in carbolic lotion, and covered with mackintosh or guttapercha. Local blood-letting is often serviceable. This treatment is most suitable for those inflammations in which the affected area is small and the process not very virulent. In severe and spreading forms of inflammation—cellulitis, as it is often called—free incisions should be made into the inflamed area even before pus has formed, and still more without delay if pus is present when the case is first seen. (See also p. 38, par. (12)). Blood-letting by leeches, or otherwise, is not often employed now, but may be useful in acute inflammations. (i) By Leeches.—Leeches are to be applied as follows :—The part of the skin selected is washed and, if hairy, shaved ; it is then dabbed oyer wilh milk. The leech or leeches are then taken from the box in which they are usually sent up, and allowed to swim for a few minutes in a basin of clean water. Each, before being applied, should next be allowed to crawl over a clean towel for a few minutes. It is then to be taken up in a wine-glass, or test-tube, which, when inverted, is placed over the desired spot. Considerable patience is often expended before the leech can be induced to fasten ; when it has once taken hold, it may be leu till it becomes distended, and drops off. Leeches to mucous surfaces (as of the vagina), must be applied in carefully adjusted test-tubes, or in leeching glasses—, tubes open at one end, and at the other end narrowed so as to allow the head only of the leech to protrude. When much blood has to be removed, the leech-bite should be fomented with warm water. When the bleeding continues too long, pressure with a pad will generally stop it; but if this fail, the leech-bite should be touched with a point of solid nitrate of silver. The continuance of the flow is due to the anti-coagulating substance secreted from the leech's pharynx {Haycrafi). (2) By Cupping, like leeching, has now gone too much out of use. In dry cupping, the blood is only drawn to the surface; in wet cupping, it is withdrawn from the body. (a) For dry cupping, if a cupping glass is not at hand, an empty jelly-can (jam-pot), cup, or strong tumbler will do as well. A flat72 A SURGICAL handbook: surface of skin should be chosen ; this should be wetted. The interior of the cupping glass should then be well heated (to expel the air), either by holding it over a spirit lamp, or by throwing a piece of lighted paper into it. In the latter case, the paper should be extinguished by clapping the glass against the skin ; in the former case the glass should be withdrawn from the flame, and immediately pressed into its place on the skin. A vacuum is produced inside the glass, and the skin, deeply congested, rises up into it. (b) For wet cupping, a set of cupping knives are needed; these consist of lo or 12 sharp blades, working in a half circle through slits in a metal plate fixed to a frame. The distance to which the blades project beyond the plate can be regulated by a screw. The blades are first brought through their course against a spring, and are held there by a catch, "full cock." When a button is pressed, they spring back at once, sweeping over the slits to the depth already regulated, and, of course, make corresponding cuts in whatever comes in their way. The depth of the wound must vary with the patient's skin. It should be just through the skin, but not into the subcutaneous fat, lest pellets of fat should block the cuts, and stop the needed bleeding. Having adjusted the depth of the knives, and having placed the instrument at "full cock," the surgeon first dry-cups the desired place; then pressing the brass plate against the skin, he discharges the knife- blades, and immediately applies the exhausted cupping glass again, which will now rapidly fill with blood. It must be emptied, and re- applied as often as required. The wound, after having been cleaned, should be dressed with dry boracic lint, or absorbent wool. A simple form of artificial leech can be extemporised by using a test tube as an exhauster after having scratched the skin with a bistoury. (3) By Venesection. — This may be practised from the median basihc vein. A fillet is placed on the upper arm, to retard venous return, and an oblique puncture is then to be made through the skin, into the vein, with a sharp-pointed bistoury, or lancet. Blood will now flow freely. If it becomes sluggish, the patient should work the hand and fingers vigorously. From 8 to 20 ounces may be withdrawn at a sitting. In special cases, any distended vein may be selected. A dry pad fixed over the wounded vein is all that is needed to stop the blood, after the fillet has been removed. Counter-irritation may be applied by blisters, by cautery, or by other means. (1) By Blisters.—K fly-blister of the desired size is applied to the ?kin, and left on for 6 to 8 hours ; or blistering-fluid is painted on the part until it becomes white. The blister which rises is then snipped, and the raw part dressed with zinc ointment, oil-silk, or wet boracic lint. (2) By Cautery—[a) The button cautery.—This is heated in the gas or spirit lamp, as indicated in Fig. 30, until the forefinger feels uncom- fortable ; and is then rapidly tapped over the skin at various places, so as to leave a reddened spot behind it each time. (/J) When the actual cautery is applied, a red-hot iron, or the thcrmo-cautery, is needed, and an anesthetic is indicated. The skin should be first cleansed. TheEMERGENCY CASES. 73 burn ought not to destroy the whole depth of the epithelium; if the seared part be at once covered with collodion, no further dressing will needed * • i_ When it is desired to prolong the action of any counter-irritant the raw stirface should be dressed with sabine ointment, which irritates it, and keeps it open. Fig. 30.—Heating the Button Cautery. (3) By Potential Caustics (see Appendix). (4) By Croton Oil, which, when rubbed into the skin, is a powerful counter-irritant, and causes a smart pustular eruption. Tincture of iodine is a mild counter-irritant. The liniment of iodme is much stronger. CHAPTER IX. EMERGENCY CASES. Contents.—A. Treatment of Surgical Emergency Cases-(i) Reten- tion of Urine (from Stricture of Urethra; Enlarged Prostate; Spasm of Constrictor; Acute Inflammation of the Prostate; Ure- thral Calculus)—(2) Possible Rupture of the Urethra—(3) Possible Rupture of the Bladder—(a) Possible Injury of the Intestines— (5) Strangulated Hernia—(6) Severe Compound Fractures and Dislocations—(7) Injuries to the Eye—(8) Lodgment of Needles under the Skin—(9) Foreign Body in the Nostril—(10) in the Ear— (11) Obstruction to Respiration (from Swelling of the Fauces; Croup, or Diphtheria; Foreign Body in the Air-passages, Pharynx, or (S.so-pha.gus]—Artificial Respiration—(12) Treatment of the Apparently Drowned—(13) Severe Head Injuries—(14) Cut-throat. Under the category of " emergency " cases—cases in which prompt and decided action is necessary—come both Surgical Cases (strictly so called), and Cases of Poisoning. A. Surgical Emergency Cases. In the prognosis of surgical cases, as of others, we have to consider remote as well as immediate dangers. The latter draw attention toA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. themselves, but the former, only appreciated by experience, are apt to be unheeded until the time for their possible remedy has gone. Under the head of "emergency" cases we wish, therefore, to allude briefly to the diagnosis and treatment of cases involving both classes of danger. (i) Retention of Urine, almost invariably found in men. If recent, causes great pain and feeling of distention, and demands relief by the patient's symptoms no less than by the dangers which threaten him. After a time, however, the spasms subside, while the bladder goes on dilating. In some cases, the obstruction may by this time have subsided, and then the chief s>'mptom will be that of constant dribbling from an over distended and almost completely paralysed bladder. If unrelieved, the pressure, aided by ulceration behind a stricture, may cause a rupture of the urethra, and extravasation of urine into the perinasum, or, with only a slight blow on the abdomen, a still more serious pelvic, or abdominal extravasation from a rupture of the bladder. Sometimes suppression of urine, and uraemia poisoning may occur, from backward pressure upon the kidneys, or there may be a long standing after-paralysis of the bladder. The cause of the retention may be anything that obstructs the canal of the urethra—whether stricture, enlargement of the prostate, inflammation or abscess of the body of the penis, urethral calculus, or spasm of the constrictor. (Retention due to primary paralysis of the bladder is a serious symptom of a more extensive paralysis.) The diagnosis of the retention is made by percussion and palpation just above the pubes, taken together with the previous historj'. The distended bladder can often be made out as a fluctuating tumour, reaching even as far as the umbilicus, and can be felt from the rectum. The diagnosis of the cause of the retention will vary with the conditions which produce it, thus:— {a.) Retention from Stricture of the Urethra. —Here we have generally the history of a gradually diminishing stream with painful and frequent micturition, following sooner or later after gonorrhrea or an injury to the perinasum ; exposure to cold, or a bout of drinking, may determine the complete obstruction. By passing the finger gently along the urethra from the outside, the amount of callous thickening in and around the tube can be recognised. When an urgent case of stricture is brought to hospital, the patient should have a J or ^ gr. morphia suppositor}', and should be made to sit in a warm hip-bath. While sitting in the bath he may some- times be able to pass water. If this fails he should be put to bed before any effort is made to draw olT the water. Treatment. Having gently ascertained the amount of bladder distention, the house-surgeon, after cleansing the meatus and glans penis with an antiseptic lotion, may begin by injecting down to the stricture about two drachms of 5 per cent, solution of cocaine to which an equal quantity of adrenaUn solution (i-iooo) has been added. He then disinfects a medium-sized catheter by syringing with 1-20 carboHc acid, or with boiling water if it be metal; andEMERGENCY CASES. 11> after it has been warmed and lubricated (see Appendix, p. 288), passes it along the urethra to explore its conditiori and find the seat of stricture. In most cases this will be just in front of the triancnilar ligament, but there may be several strictures. Next, a soft instrument, either india-rubber or one of the French black probe-pointed kinds, is to be taken, and an effort made to pass it. Successively smaller numbers must be tried, and should the smallest fail, metal catheters must be used. The instrument should be warmed by friction with a towel or in hot water, and should then be well lubricated. The operator stands on the left side of the bed on which the patient lies, and gently lifting the penis with his left hand, introduces the catheter into the meatus with his right. Supposmg the stricture to be in the common place just in front of the triangular ligament, the operator steadily passes the catheter back to the seat ol stricture. Some do this with the handle of the catheter in the mesial plane, while others keep the handle pointing towards the patient's left. So long as the point of the instrument is directed backwards along the urethra, either method is good. The second is easier, and is generally preferred. The difficulty begins at the place where the urethra changes its direction to reach the opening in the triangular ligament, and continues from that point till the instrument has fairly entered the prostatic urethra. In trying to pass the catheter at the point of difficulty, the surgeon must keep the point of the instrument exactly in the mesial plane. To ensure this, care must be taken that the patient's pelvis is not tilted, and that the handle of the catheter is in the mesial plane. On no account should the handle of the catheter be directly pressed upon, as this will drive the point through the floor of the urethra. The movement is rather a combined one of Hfting the instrument upwards, while, at the same time, canting the handle backwards and downwards towards the patient's feet. By this manoeuvre the point of the instrument is made to follow the curve which the urethra takes below the pubes. The surgeon feels cautiously for the orifice of the stricture at various parts of the obstructed portion of the urethra, and as soon as he thinks he has found it he tries to pass it through in the manner just described. A feeling of pain to the patient, and of the instrument's being grasped by the stricture to the surgeon, are useful indications. Where there is much difficulty, the surgeon should insert his left forefinger—well oiled—into the patient's rectum to help in guiding the point through the membranous urethra. Should the instrument have left the urethra (false passage) the point will be felt to pass between the prostate and the rectum. By the time the point of the catheter has reached the prostatic urethra, the handle will be nearly horizontal, and when it has reached this position it should be gently pressed onwards into the bladder. In proportion as greater com- mand is obtained with rigid instruments, so is there greater risk of their doing harm, especially when of small size. Until the feeling of being grasped is perceptible, the greatest gentleness must be employed, lest the urethra, anterior to the stricture, should be per- forated and a false passage made. Any attempt at withdrawal will be resisted by the grasp of the stricture, and the operator may then76 A SURGICAL handbook: have more confidence in gently pushing the instrument on. After great difficulty has been met with in passing an instrument, it is often well to tie it in for six or eight hours, or at once perform external urethrotomy. When the smallest instruments have been tried in vain, and if the symptoms are not very urgent, the patient may be again put into a warm hip- or general bath. The urethral injection of cocaine and adrenalin may also be repeated. He may then be able to pass urine himself, or the next attempt with the catheter may be successful. If, however, the symptoms are urgent, an effort to pass a catheter under chloroform should be made, and, if unsuccessful, the bladder should he aspirated just above the pubes. If cystitis has been present aspiration may cause cellulitis in the track of the needle, but this is a risk which must be faced in very bad cases. With aseptic urine the method is harmless, it may be repeated with- out hesitation over and over again (during five weeks it has been done regularly), and by removing the distention, it at the same time often relieves the spasm which complicates the stricture. The patient can often make water afterwards without assistance, or at least the surgeon's trouble is much relieved. In retention from other causes also, where urine is probably aseptic, aspirate above the pubes in all cases of urgency and difficulty. Should there be no exhausting bottle at hand, a vacuum is easily produced by first heating and then cooling a bottle with a tightly-fitting cork, perforated to transmit a connecting-tube. At the same time, negative pressure is not really required; an aspirating-needle, or fine trochar, is sufficient, and involves no danger so long as the surgeon sees that the intra-bladder pressure is naturally present, or is maintained by the hand over the abdomen until the needle is withdrawn. Where the bladder-wall is thick and hard from old standing inflammation, it tends to keep in a semi-contracted state ; if compressed beyond this, it expands again at once like an india-rubber ball; and would draw air and organisms into the bladder, if the compressing hand were relaxed while the tube was patent. (b.) Retention from enlarged Prostate is most frequent in old men, but otherwise from previous history might be mistaken for stricture. Except where the middle lobe is enlarged alone, and towards the bladder, a finger in the rectum feeling the prostate will generally make the diagnosis plain. Should the nature of the retention be doubtful, the passage of a large instrument will remove the uncer- tainty. No obstruction will be felt until the prostate is reached, and there the difficulty, and a serious one, will be met with. To obviate the alteration in curve of the urethra due to the enlargement, which may be lateral as well as from below, we may use (i) a soft catheter with a " coudi^ " or "bi-coud^ " end ; (2) a metal instrument with an extra large bend ; or (3) a well-curved gum-elastic catheter with stilette, passed down to the obstruction. If the catheter be gently pressed onwards while the stilette is being withdrawn, the point of the former will be raised up and may be so guided past the obstacle into the bladder.EMERGENCY CASES. 77 Should the prostate bleed, as it often does freely, the eye of the catheter may be blocked ere it reach the bladder. If this be the case a catheter should be used with a stilette which plugs the '' eye "; or a plug mav be extemporised by winding a few turns of silk round the end ot the stilette To avoid any risk of leaving the plug behmd, one end of the silk should be left attached, and allowed to pass up the catheter beside the stilette. Caution .'—In no cases should greater care be taken to prevent septic mischief from entering the bladder than in those of prostatic enlargement, especially when relieved for the first time after an attack of rerention. The whole of the urinary tract, from the kidneys to the prostate, is ready to inflame, even from the retention and the means necessary to relieve it ; and should septic fermentation once begin, the combination of increased inflammation and septic poison- ing will rapidly carry off the patient. * yc.) Retention from Spasm of the Constrictor, when occurring apart from any stricture, generally results from some irritation to the perineal nerves. After an operation about the anus, or for piles or tistula, it is frequent, and is sometimes caused in children by worms. Similar spasms may also occur in the course of feverish attacks, sometimes traceable to the highly acid, and hence irritating, quality of the urine. Treatment,—Soothing treatment such as an opiate, or perinaeal fomentations, are often sufficient; failing these, the passage of a soft instrument, with gentle, steady pressure when the obstruction is reached, will be required. [d.) Retention from Acute Inflammation of the Prostate.—In these cases, the pain and feverishness of the prostatitis is an earlier and more prominent symptom than the retention. Soft catheters should be used, and if even these cause great irritation, it would be well to relieve by aspiration for several days. The instillation of a few drops of i-iooo solution of adrenalin has been found useful in these cases. Retention from other conditions of the penis, such as urethral abscess, is to be treated on similar lines—by soothing, gentle use of soft instruments, and, if need be, aspiration. U.) Urethral Calculus, if it cannot be made to pass outwards, or seized with forceps and withdrawn, must be cut down upon. The visiting surgeon should, therefore, be sent for; but immediate relief can be given by aspiration. (2) Possible Rupttire of the Urethra.—If a case of fracture or crush of the pelvis, or severe injury to the perinseum, be admitted, the house-surgeon's duty is at once to pass a catheter and draw off the urine. .Should the instrument pass easily and there be no blood, the urethra may be considered safe. Should, however, blood be oozing from the meatus, and the passage of a catheter be impossible, the urethra may be considered to be torn across. Should there be some blood and a rugged feeling as the catheter is being passed, the * See also Appendix, p. 288.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. •78 tear will be partial. In the latter case, the patient should not be allowed to try to pass water himself; it should be drawn off at intervals of six or eight hours, for three or four days, or a catheter tied in continuously. When there is a complete rupture—any severe retention being meanwhile relieved by aspiration—the visiting surgeon should be sent for, and preparations made for perinaeal section. (3) Possible Rupture of the Bladder.—Such a condition may be expected when a person with a more or less filled bladder receives a violent blow in the hypogastric region, or when the pelvis is severely crushed. The diagnosis is chiefly made from the hsematuria, not traceable to the kidney or ureter, from the small quantity of urine obtainable, and from the collapse. The patient must be put to bed, and treated with warmth and opiates, while the visiting surgeon is sent for. Preparation meanwhile should be made for laparotomy. (4) Possible Injury of the Intestines.—"Where there is a penetrating wound of the abdominal wall, whether from a stab or a bullet, it may be assumed that if the abdominal cavity has been reached, the intestines or other viscera will have been injured. Only in rare cases do they escape. Again, should the abdomen have been severely crushed or heavily struck, any of the viscera may be injured without the shghtest trace of violence being visible on the outside. For penetrating wounds of the intestine it is now generally acknowledged that (at least, if the case can be seen before severe peritonitis has occurred) laparotomy should be at once performed, so that apertures may be sutured and bleeding points tied. If the probable injury could be as nearly surmised in non-penetrating abdominal injuries, the treatment would be similar. We may, therefore, lay it down as a rule that, in all cases where from the nature or history of the injury, especially if accompanied by great shock and by vomiting and hiccough, severe injury of the intestines is suspected, the patient should be sent to bed and kept absolutely quiet, while opium or morphia is administered. Nothing should be given by the mouth except a little ice to suck. Collapse may have to be treated by some of the methods indicated on p. 68. A general examination of the abdomen should be made, and special attention paid to rigidity of the abdominal wall, and to liver dulness. Meanwhile, the visiting surgeon should be sent for without delay, and preparations made for laparotomy; a few hours may make all the difference between the success or failure of a possible opera- tion. If we wait until intestinal contents have escaped into the peritoneum, and septic peritonitis has been well established, the patient's chances of recovery are greatly diminished, if not entirely destroyed. (5) Strangulated Hernia is always a matter of great anxiety. The only question that a house-surgeon may have to settle is: -how far should he go in efforts at taxis before sending for theEMERGENCY CASES. 79 \'isiting surgeon, and what treatment should he adopt pending his arrival? It is impossible to lay down definite rules for all cases, but the following general indications may be useful:— No effort at Taxis slwild be made {a.) if there be signs of local change, such as inflammation, emphysema, or bruising, at the hernial protrusion. {b.) If extensive efforts have been already made without success before admission. iV.) If symptoms have been very acute—i.e., great pain, vomiting, and collapse—even although lasting for a few hours only. (</.) If the distinct symptoms, even though not very urgent, have continued for two or more days. The indications of strangulation are—locally hardness and irreduc- tility, pain and tenderness, loss of impulse on coughing ; remotely, pain in the abdomen, often felt at the umbilical region, nausea, sickness, and vomiting, becoming stercoraceous, collapse with rapid weak pulse. There is generally complete constipation; but the passage of faeces which had lain low in the great intestine is sometimes deceptive. Mr. Spence's dictum used to be: "When in doubt, operate;" and the house-surgeon may assume this as the indication for sending for his "Chief" Meanwhile, the pubes should be shaved, the parts covered with a towel soaked in carbolic (1-20), or corrosive sublimate (i-iooo), and an ice bag laid over the hernia—at least, for an hour or so. The foot of the bed may also be well raised. Any great pain should be soothed by morphia. By these means the tension in the sac will be lessened, and the way prepared either for taxis or an operation, as the visiting surgeon may think fit. On the other hand, should the symptoms be slight and of short duration, the house- surgeon may very gently try taxis, but the efforts should be gentle and short. Should the parts seem inclined to yield, a slight interval may be allowed to give a chance to the cold, and to the raised position of the pelvis, when a second trial, aided with chloroform, may be made. Should this fail, a "doubt " will exist, and the case must be treated accordingly. It is not the purpose of this work to discuss the form of operation for strangulated hernia. Tazis is performed by first relaxing the hernial openings by rai.5ing the shoulders, and flexing and adducting the thighs (femoral, and inguinal hernia). The surgeon grasping the protrusion with one hand, draws it away, and at the same time gently compresses it, while with the other, applied at the neck, he pushes up bit by bit in the direction of the canal-opening. This it will be remembered runs in the same direction as the hernia in the inguinal form, while in femoral hernia, the protrusion passes up and out, and hence will have a corresponding relation to the canal. f6) Severe Compound Fracture or Dislocation.—While, as elsewhere laid down, the first object aimed at should be to render all compound wounds aseptic, the injury may yet be so severe as to necessitate an immediate amputation or excision.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 8o When the parts are severely bruised and crushed, the impossibility of saving them will be evident. In others, however, the matter may be difficult to settle. Caures for anxiety are, the absence of pulsation in the main vessels below the seat of injury, or of capillary circulation, illustrated by pressing and relaxing any vascular part; extensive stripping off, or undermining of the skin, great comminution of the bones, and a pulpy bruised state of the muscles, even though the skin seem fairly natural. The elasticity and pliability of the skin will permit of an almost complete pounding and crushing of the deeper textures, without external marks being visible, at least at first. However, the vitality of the skin may be so injured by stretching and bruising, that it will aftenvards die, although at first it looks only a little pale or livid. The patient's con- stitution will also have to be considered. With a vigorous patient, especially if below middle life, efforts to save a limb may be made, which it would be unwise to attempt with a broken-down or elderly patient. (7) Injuries of the Eye.—(a.) Foreipt bodies on the surface must be removed from the conjunctiva at once. If loose, and not im- mediately apparent, they will be found beneath the upper lid, which should be everted as follows :— Direct the patient to look down to the ground ; lay hold of the margin of the upper lid (or of the eyelashes), and draw it down, and away from the globe; then, placing a blunt pencil, or the flat handle of a pocket-knile upon the upper part of the upper lid to steady it, rapidly fold the lid upwards, and it will become everted. If, while it is held thus everted, the patient looks down, the upper angle of the conjunctiva can be easily explored, and any foreign particle picked oflf or wiped away. , ■, , • Should a small particle of stone or metal have lodged in the surface of the cornea, constituting a "fire," it must be very care- fully removed with a spud, the cornea having previously been rendered insensible with a few drops of cocaine (4 per cent.) The greatest care must be taken to avoid unnecessary injury to the corneal epithelium in this process. . , . ib ) Where the eye has been ait, any escape of the vitreous humour is serious. One of the immediate risks in cuts of the eye-ball is a prolapse of the iris ; therefore, if the cut should be at the centre, the pupil must be dilated with atropia; whilst, if it be at the margin, it must be contracted with eserine. A dry pad and bandage must then be applied on the closed eyelid. It is not usually necessary to do anything further at the time, unless the corneal cut should gape very widely, when it may be drawn together with a fine stitch. (8) Lodging of Needles beneath the Skin.-This is a common accident, and often causes greater anxiety to the patient than the slight risk involved can account for. If the needle cannot be either seen or felt by the surgeon, no operation should be undertaken until the Rontgen rays have been called into play to reveal its exact locality. In a suitable case, begin by rendering the part bloodless, then anaesthetic, either by freezing with ether or injecting cocaine Next incise the skin over the foreign body, and use the end of the dissecting forceps as a probe, first to detect, and then to removeEMERGENCY CASES. 8r It. Sometimes the intruder, though previously felt, ehides the first effort made to find it; but it is easily recognised, and seized the following day, if the wound has been meanwhile plugged with boracic lint. Joseph Bell has often demonstrated the value of this plan a: his out-patient clinique in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Professor Chiene recommends that a sharp-pointed curved bistoury be employed, first to incise the skin and then to detect the foreign body by being used as a probe. When the knife touches the foreign body, the incision is completed by cutting from within out- wards, thus lea\-ing the foreign body at the apex of a V-shaped cut. In difficult cases the X-ray screen can be used with great advantage in the search. By its aid the surgeon's knife or forceps can be guided in the tissues to the needle. (9) Foreign Body in the Nostril.—Children often push seeds, or small stones, " up their nose," and cannot get them out again, because the aperture of the nostril is narrower than its cavity. ^Mien this accident has occurred, one of the best and simplest instruments for e.xtraction is a loop of soda-water bottle wire, bent on the flat like an italic letter /. This may be gently slipped over the foreign body, and next made to pass behind it by raising the handle part of the loop. A pull outwards is then all that is required. Failing this method, dressing or dissecting forceps may be used to grasp and pull out the body, or to push it back into the pharynx. Great gentleness, it is perhaps needless to say, is always necessary. (ro) Foreign Bodies in the Ear, like those in the nose, are difficult to extract, and for a similar reason—the aperture of the external meatus is narrower than the canal beyond. The membrana t)Tnpani closing the canal within is, moreover, a special feature in the case of the ear, necessitating greater care, lest ettorts at removal should only drive foreign bodies further inwards, and so injure it. At the same time the closure of the canal within by the membrane ensures that a stream of water injected into the canal will be turned, and made to flow out again the same way, carrying any foreign body that may be present with it, or, at least, bnnging it within range of a loop of wire (see section 9), or a pair of fine forceps. Besides the wire loop, syringing (see Chap, xxv.) is therefore of great service in dealing with foreign bodies lodged in the external meatus. In more difficult cases, an ear speculum, good light, and special forceps, may be required, and if there be an aural department of the Hospital, the patient should be sent there for treatment. Insects in the meatus are best removed by the insertion of a few drops of olive oil, poured in while the patient lies down. The insect is drowned, and floated up within reach. Oi) Threatened Obstruction to Respiration.—Under this head may be included many urgent cases, differing very widely from one another, in their nature. The first point to be determined is :—How far does any existing dyspncea depend upon obstruction in the air passages, rather than upon some fault in the blood or its circulation ? This is judged of U82 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. by observing the movements of the thorax, and noting the amount (if any) of the sucking in of the unsupported portions of the thorax, such as the intercostal spaces, inter- and supra-clavicular notches and upper part of the abdomen, and by determining its relative amount on the two sides. Next, we must localise the seat of obstruction, if present; for should it be below the upper part of the trachea—unless a removable foreign body—surgical interference will be useless. By auscultation and percussion we can make out signs of obstruction or disease in the air-passages within the lung. Inspection through the mouth and examination of the neck will show the condition of the pharynx, and sometimes indicate that of the larynx. Where the larynx itself is involved, the laryngoscope may be needed. Laryngeal obstruction is generally worst in in- spiration, and causes crowing sounds. WTien both the larynx and the parts below are at fault, we must determine which is most to blame, comparing the manifest dyspnoea with the laryngeal and thoracic sounds. An indication may thus be gained, but precision is difficult to attain. Supposing the obstruction to be at the glottis, the treatment will vary with the cause and with the views of the operating surgeon. Some of the more frequent causes of obstruction are :— (a.) Swelling of the Fauces and Glottis.—A% the result of a bum— a child having tried to drink scalding tea for instance. It is difficult to say to what extent the swelling will go in any one case. Efforts should be made to limit it by giving the patient ice to suck, and applying cold continuously to the outside of the throat, and by scarifying the swollen fauces. Tracheotomy should be postponed as long as possible ; but provision for it should always be at hand, as it may be required at a moment's notice. In any case, while dangerous symptoms last, every draught of cold air should be excluded firom the patient, and steam from a bronchitis-kettle constantly plied round him. , , , , t (b.) Croup and Diphtheria.—maybe classed together, lor although well-marked examples of each are distinct from one another, many cases are very doubtful. The points of distinction are considered to be the following viz., that croup is a local inflam- mation and swelling of the larynx, with spasm of the glottis. It kills with dyspnoea alone. When the local obstruction is removed, improvement is rapid. Diphtheria, on the other hand, is (in the later stages at least) as much a general as a loca disease. It is recognised to be due to a specific organism (Loefler s bacillus) which tends specially to grow on the mucous membranes of the fauces, larvnx, and trachea, and causes the formation of a false membrane like wet wash leather. This, when removed, often leaves a raw surface, but not always. Formerly, cases with merely membrane were considered as membranous croup, and those with sloughs, as diphtheria, but no such distinction is now drawn. The organism, besides causing obstruction to respiration by its local action sets free virulent ptomaine poisons which are absorbed ; hence, in bad cases, it causes a general poisoning and depression for which local symptomsEMERGENCY CASES. 83 do not account. Recovery is slow and often complicated with paralysis and by albuminuria. Should diphtheria be diagnosed, the question will be—is the patient chiefly suffering from tracheal obstruction, or from general poisoning ? If from the former, an operation may be considered; if from the latter, it is, ol course, unnecessary. When the local symp- toms seem to be getting steadily worse, and to be the chief evil, the tree entrance of air should be ensured. Symptoms are then relieved. The early use of antitoxine serum is of the utmost importance (see Appendix). There should therefore be no delay before searching for the organism by culture and by microscopical examination of the membrane or discharge from the throat. If it be a case of croup, the chief consideration wall be :—is the obstruction becoming dangerous ? If so, and if steaming, nauseants, and poultices, and possibly bloodletting, have done no good, intubation or tracheotomy will be indicated. The rules for an emergency case of tracheal obstruction from any other cause may be hkened to those for simple croup. {c.) Foreign Body in the Air-passages.—Whether this be a seed, small coin, or other object, it places the patient in imminent risk of choking at any moment. It may be lodged in one of the ventricles o: the larynx, or have passed down the trachea into the bronchi. If a patient be brought into hospital with a history that points to such an accident, and should no symptoms be immediately pressing, he should be put to bed as quietly and speedily as possible, no exertion being permitted, lest the foreign body be disturbed and come into a more dangerous position, or cause spasm of the larynx. All prepara- tions for tracheotomy (see Chapter xi.) should then be made, and the visiting surgeon sent for. A bad fit of choking may necessitate tracheotomy at any moment. No efforts should be made at inverting the patient and shaking the foreign body out, so long as it lies in a harmless place, or, unless the operator is prepared to perform tracheotomy at once. The glottis might become suddenly closed, either by reflex spasm or by direct lodging of the foreign body between the cords. Fig. 31.—The Umbrella-Probang : closed. Fig. 32.—The Umbrclla-Probang : open. In some hospitals Kilian's apparatus has been used to extract foreign bodies from the bronchi, as a substitute for tracheotomy.84 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Foreign Body in the Pharynx.—An obstruction by a piece of meat is generally remedied by withdrawing it, or pushing it down with the finger. Sometimes a hard body lodged in the oesophagus (below the larynx) may interfere with respiration, by pressing forwards into the unprotected part of the trachea. These rarer cases will require special treatment. (e.) Foreign Body in the (Esophagus.—Many foreign bodies, even of large size, when swallowed pass down to the stomach, and are discharged per anum. They may stick in the oesophagus, however, and either cause difficulty in swallowing, or involve risk by ulcerating through the oesophagus into the aorta or air-passages. Sometimes they lodge in pouches of the mucous membrane, and remain for a long time undetected. If inspection of the fauces and examination with the finger reveal nothing, a probang may be passed down the oesophagus. CEsophageal forceps should be of two kinds, with a lateral grasp, and with an antero-posterior grasp. If a foreign body be felt in the upper half of the passage, long forceps may be tried, to grasp and remove it. Where there is doubt as to the position of a metallic foreign body the X-ray screen should be used. Should this endeavour fail, oesophagotomy will be indicated. For Fish-bones and other irregular bodies, the umbrella-probang is useful (Fig. 32). This, while closed, is passed beyond the intruder, and then, when opened, is withdra\vn. Frequently it brings with it the foreign body entangled in its meshes. For Coins, the coin-catcher (Fig. 33) is useful—a gag must be <^—= Fig. 33.—The Coin-catcher. used to keep open the jaws. The coin-catcher being passed, is then carefully withdrawn. If the coin comes too, the operator must be ready to guide it past the epiglottis with his left forefinger. It is apt to slip off the coin-catcher at this point, and either stick at the epiglottis or be swaUowed again. Artificial Respiration may be necessary after the obstrucUon to the breathing has been removed in any of the above cases. In asphyxia, generally, for several minutes after breathing has ceased the heart continues to beat. So long as it does so, the prospec s of restoraUon by artificial respiration are good. When the heart s action however, as well as the movements of respiration, ha^ s'oPP^'^' chances are very small. Although Milne Murray has shown by expen- ment that in animals animation may be restored by artificial resp^ation after both pulse and breathing have ceased, c inical experience proves That the prospects of recovery under similar circumstances are by no means so good. Many methods of artificial respiration have been proposed the object in all, however, is to alternately increase and diminish theEMERGENCY CASES. 8S capacity of the chest, so as to make air pass in and out. The simplest and readiest way is to press with the hand upon the sternum and then suddenly relax it. Sylvester's method, which is the common and a more efficient plan, is carried out as follows : the patient's head is kept low, the chin being drawn well up, or the tongue pulled out with forceps; the chest is raised; one person then grasps the patient's arms just above the elbow, and draws them with a sweep above the head (Fig. 34rt); in about two seconds, he brings Artificial Respiration—Sylvester's Method (table also lilted). them down again to the front side of the chest, against which he presses them very firmly (Fig. 34/;), whil? an assistant at the same time drives the abdominal viscera upwards, towards the diaphragm to complete expiration. After a pause of four or five seconds, the movement is begun again. About fifteen respirations per minute are all that is required. Hoauards Method (with special reference to drowning) is the following : —86 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. "Instantly turn patient downwards, with a large firm roll of clothing under stomach and chest. Place one of his arms under his forehead, so as to keep his mouth off the ground. Press with all your weight two or three times, for four or five seconds each time, upon patient's back, so that the water is pressed out of lungs and stomach, and drains freely out of mouth. Then, quickly turn patient, face upwards, with roll of clothing under back, just below shoulder-blades, and make the head hang back as low as possible. Place patient's hands above his head. Kneel with patient's hips between your knees, and fix your elbows firmly against your hips. Now—grasping lower part of patient's naked chest—squeeze his two sides together, pressing gradually forward with all your weight, for about three seconds, until your mouth is nearly over mouth of patient; then, with a push, suddenly jerk yourself back. Rest about three seconds; then, begin again, repeating these bellows- blowing movements with perfect regularity so that foul air may be pressed out, and pure air be drawn into lungs, about eight or ten times a minute, for at least one hour, or until patient breathes naturally." Schajer's method is based on careful experiment, and affords a maximum amount of exchange of air to the patient with a minimum expenditure of physical exertion on the part of the operator. It was devised for the restoration of the apparently drowned, but it may be also used for asphyxiated infants, and in other cases requiring artificial respiration. In most cases of danger from respiratory failure during anaesthesia, Sylvester's is a more convenient method, at least at the first alarm. The method "consists in laying the subject in the prone posture, preferably on the ground, with a thick folded garment underneath the chest and epigastrium. The operator puts himself in a position athwart or at the side of the subject, facing his head and kneeling upon one or both knees, and places his hands on each side over the lower part of the back (lowest ribs). He then slowly throws the weight of his body forward to bear upon his own arms, and thus presses upon the thorax of the subject and forces air out of the lungs. This being effected, he gradually relaxes the pressure by bringhig his own body up again to a more erect position, but without moving the hands ; as he does this air is drawn by the removal of pressure from the chest walls, and by their elastic reaction into the lungs. This process is repeated quite regularly and without manifest inter\-als between the movements, not less often than twelve times a minute ; it may be done somewhat more rapidly, but fifteen times a minute would, in any case, be sufficient." Besides artificial respiration, efforts should be made to rouse the system by various forms of stimulation, such as by vapour of aminonia to the nostrils (burning feathers before the nose, hartshorn. Sic); ether or alcohol vapour by the lungs, by subcutaneous or rectal injection ; flipping, pinching, and blistering the skin ; interrupted current to the skin, muscles, or over the heart; friction and hot bottles to the extremities.87 EMERGENCY CASES. (12) Treatment for those apparently Drowned.—No time should be lost in trying to restore respiration. Weeds and mud must be cleared from the mouth, and water squeezed out from the lungs and stomach, as Howard describes (p. 86). Artificial respira- tion by eidier Sylvester's (p. 85) or Howard's method (p. 86) should then be begun. Meanwhile, the limbs should be smartly rubbed towards the trunk with the hands or warm flannels. If circumstances permit, the patient's wet clothes may be removed and warm blankets be substituted, while hot bottles, bricks, or plates are laid against them. On no account, however, should artificial respiration be intermitted, except for a few seconds at longest, until half or three quarters of an hour after the heart has ceased to beat. Should spontaneous efforts at respiration return, exertions should be renewed, and at the earliest date that swallowing seems possible, brandy and water should be placed at the back of the tongue with a spoon. While circulation continues, a hypodermic of ether (20-30 min.), if available, may be given. After consciousness has returned, a warm drink of weak tea or coffee, beef-tea or weak alcohol should be given and the patient put to bed with plenty of warm blankets. For some days after immersion, the patient must be treated with great care, lest pneumonia should develop. (13) Severe Head-Injuries.—When a patient is admitted with a severe head-injury, the question of trephining will often arise, and the house-surgeon may be in doubt whether or not to send for the visiting surgeon. As authorities differ on these matters, we can only here indicate views generally accepted :— Do twt expect Trephining—• (a.) If the fracture seem to be chiefly on the base—i.e., if blood and cerebro-spinal fluid run from the ears, or blood from the roof of the nose, or pharynx, and if there is no special paralysis or twitching pointing to localised hsemorrhage. Treatment.—Get the bowels well opened, shave the scalp, and put on an ice-bag, and keep the patient quiet. (b.) If the fracture be a simple one of the vault with not very extensive depression, and unaccompanied by definite symptoms. Treatment, as above. (c.) In a slight case of compound depressed fracture, where there seems good hope of keeping the wound a-septic. Treatment—Dress wound, otherwise as above. Expect Trephining— (a.) In a compound fracture, with distinct depression, with or without symptoms. N.B.—This includes punctured fractures. {b.) In any severe head-injury, with well-marked hemiplegia, aphasia, or other localised lesion, which may be cortical, whether these symptoms are early or late. In any head-injury where there are indications of middle meningeal hemorrhage. This is likely to occur where the line of a fissured fracture has crossed any of the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The important .symptoms are an interval of consciousness after the injury, varying from a few minutes to several88 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. hours, followed by headache, vomiting, and stupor, going on to coma, with a slow pulse and deep snoring respiration, and dilatation of the pupil, especially on the side of the injury. In doubtful cases the nature of the fluid drawn off by lumbar puncture may be of service in diagnosis. (14) Cut Throat.—The course to be pursued includes— (a.) Arrest of hemorrhage. \b.) Treatment of injured trachea or oesophagus. By the time cases of cut throat are brought under the surgeon's notice, often either the patient is dead, or bleeding has spontaneously ceased. The first duty of the surgeon will be, however, to look for and stop any bleeding that may exist. Cautiously he must remove blood-clots, and sponge the wound with an antiseptic lotion, secure bleeding points with forceps, and carefully ligature them. Next, he must examine the extent of the wound, and close with catgut stitches any apertures in the air or food-passages, should they have been made. In such cases, he may also approximate the rest of the wound, but without entirely closing it, lest any discharge be pent up and burrow either into the wounded trachea or gullet, or under the fascia of the neck. In cases where the cut has not wounded the trachea or gullet, the chances of septicity are much less, and an attempt should be made to render the wound a-septic, after which it may be closed with sutures. Watch should be kept, however, and on any sign of discharge- accumulation, the wound must be opened up again. The after-management of the wound must be conducted so as to prevent discharge from entering the trachea or oesophagus, or from burrowing under the cervical fascia. The neck should be kept at rest, with the head bent forwards. In cases where the thyro-hyoid membrane has been wounded, there may be great swelling and inflammation about the epiglottis and extending into the larynx. In bad cases, tracheotomy may be required, and, in anticipation of danger, it may sometimes be best to operate at once. Owing to the presence of dysphagia, it may be necessary to feed the patient with a catheter passed into the oesophagus, or nourish him by nutrient enemata till swelhng subside. , .,, , , • r i, In all cases, the constant presence of a skilled attendant is of the greatest importance. Anaemia from loss of blood (p. 65), shock (p. 68), or excitement, must be treated by appropriate remedies. N B —In all suicidal or assault cases, notes of the injury should be taken on the spot, and, if possible, a consultation with a colleague should be obtained.89 EMERGENCY CASES. CHAPTER X. EMERGENCY CASES (Continued). Contents.—B. Cases of Poisoning—Poisons most frequently selected —Classification of Poisons—'' Emergency " Apparatus: the Stomach- Pump and its Syphon Substitute—General Treatment—Treatment for Special Poisons—Treatment for Poisons most commonly taken. B. Cases of Poisoning. Cases of poisoning are always anxious ; acute ones are urgent. As treatment depends on diagnosis, no time is to be lost in forming it. Often the statement by the patient or his friends is sufficient. When this is not to be had, the diagnosis must be made on other grounds. Poisons most frequently selected in Suicidal Cases.—Apart (rom the symptoms observable, it is of interest and importance to know what poisons are most frequently selected by suicides, or taken by misadventure. Morselli (On suicide—International Scientific Series, 1881), says—" In the aggregate of suicides which happened in England and Wales in 1863-74, the following poisons seem to have been always more used than any others ; prussic acid, cyanide of potassium, laudanum, oxalic acid, arsenic, strychnine, the vermin-killer, and oil of bitter almonds; whilst in the second and third places are always found caustic acids, mercury, preparations of opium and morphia, vegetable narcotics, phosphorus, and salts of copper; lastly, though rarely chosen, come chloral, chloroform, parafiBn, belladonna, ammonia, cantharides, salts of lead, zinc, and potassium. It is remarkable that caustic alkalies are not found on the list. To compare with this statement of the use of poisons in England, the following Table has been drawn up from the Registrar-General's Report for Scotland for the five years preceding 1889, showing the number of deaths by poisoning, both suicidal and accidental. It will be seen that opium (generally as laudanum) heads the list, and that prussic acid is much less used than it is in England.SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 90 1881-1885. Suicide. Total Opium (and Morphia), 80 123 Carbolic Acid, .... 8 s 13 Lead, II 0 II Chloroform, .... 10 I II Sulphuric Acid 8 3 n Chloral, 6 3 9 Belladonna and Atropia, . 8 0 S Phosphorus 6 a 8 Strychnia 4 4 8 Alcohol 4 0 4 Cyanide of Potassium, I 3 4 Hydrocyanic Acid, . 0 4 4 Arsenic 0 3 3 Spirit of Salt 3 0 3 Salt of Sorrel a I 3 Herbs t 0 3 Hydrochloric Acid, . 0 2 2 Nitrate of Potash, 0 2 2 Nitric Acid 3 0 3 Oxalic Acid 0 3 2 As these, however, are all deaths, the next table is ^ven to show the vSou cases tr'eated for poisoning in the Edmburgh Roj^a Infirmary from 1877 to 1887 inclusive-eleven years. Most of the cases recovered. .EMERGENCY CASES. 1 *• 2 Opium, Acute Alcoholic Poisoning, Suspected Poisoning, Coal Gas, Strvchnia, Morphia, Phosphorus, Chloral,. Ammonia. Oxalic Acid, Paraffin, Belladonna, . Chlorodyne, Iodine, Lead, Insolation, . . _ • Irritant, Atropia, Spirit of Salt, Sulphuric _ Acid, Aconite, Corrosive Sublimate, Bow's Liniment, Prussian Blue, Carbolic Acid, Chloroform, A. B. C. Liniment, Croton and Opium, Cyanide of Potas- sium, Creosote and Opium, Salt ol Sorrel, Prtissic Acid, Arsenic, Classification of Poisons.—(i) Irritants, such as arsenic and cantharides, irritate and inflame; symptoms are delayed. Corrosives have immediate action; they soften and destroy the mucous mem- branes—, caustic alkalies, strong acids, corrosive sublimate, also, to a less degree, oxalic acid. (2) Narcotics or cerebral poisons, producing stupor, delirium, convulsions, or coma—as opium, hydrocyanic acid, poisonous gases. (3) Narcotic-irritants combine the effect ot the above in greater or less degrees—e.g., strychnia, aconite, hemlock. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—When diagnosis has to be made from symptoms, the following tabular form, modified from that given by Murrell in his excellent work on "What to do in Cases of Poisoning," will be found useful:— Collapse.—Viommtnt in irritant and corrosive poisons, and in all others towards the end. Coma.—In opium and morphia, alcohol, chloroform, chloral, coal gas, prussic acid. Exciteinent.—ln alcohol (early stage), belladonna, hyoscyamus, cannabis indica. State oj Pupils.—Contracted in opium and morphia, and alcohol (sometimes). Dilated in belladonna and atropine, hyoscya- mus, tobacco, and alcohol generally. Stale of Skin.—T)ry'\n belladonna and atropine. Moist in opium, aconite, and in collapse. Time .Symptoms take to appear.—Developed at once in corrosive poisons and in hydrocyanic acid. In others the time varies with strength and dose of poison, condition of stomach as to tood, and idiosyncrasy of patient. Effects of arsenic and phosphorus are often delayed. Smell of Breath.—Characteristic in laudanum, alcohol, carbolic acid, &c.; in phosphorus poisoning there is a smell as of garlic. State of MovUh.—Mucous membrane made white and softened by caustic alkalies and mineral acids (nitric turns it afterwards brown); also by corrosive sublimate and strong carbolic acid. Dry from belladonna, atropine and opium. Vomiting, Colic, Purging.—In strong irritants, also in arsenic. 60 cases. 30 . 12 , 6 , 4 . , each- 3 .■92 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. antimony (with great depression), digitalis, lead, colocynth, colchicum, and phosphorus. Nature of the vomit, z/aw;/.—Bloody and coffee ground in irritant poisons. Black or dark green, luminous in the dark, with odour of garlic, in phosphorus. "Emergency" Apparatus.—Every hospital, and, indeed, every general practitioner should be provided with emergency apparatus and the necessary antidotes and hypodermic remedies, either in solution, or preferably in the form of tabloids, with directions at hand to aid the memory in case of need. The Stomach-pump.—A necessary instrument to have in readi- ness is the stomach-pump, or, preferably, a stomach tube and funnel. There are two kinds of stomach-pump in use — (1) The best kind has an exit-pipe, provided with a branch at right angles to it close to the syringe ; a flute-key arrangement shuts one and opens the other, as required. By alternately opening and ■closing these while the piston is being worked, fluid may be made either to enter or leave the stomach by the oesophageal tube. (2) Another kind has a valve preventing entrance at one opening, and exit at the other ; so that fluid which enters the syringe by one opening always leaves by the other. By means of adjustable nozzles, the stomach-tube may be attached to either, and so fluid pumped «ither in or out of the stomach, as required. To pass the Tube.—Smear the tube with olive oil, vaseline, or glycerine; bend its end nearly to a right angle; make the patient open the mouth, and hold the head well back at first. Pass the tube straight to the fauces, avoiding the tongue as much as possible, and gently push it on, directing the patient to "swallow it." The left forefinger may be used to guide the tube past the epiglottis when there is much coughing and spasm of the constrictors. As soon as the tube is in the oesophagus, the patient's head must be brought forward, and the tube pushed on with a somewhat upward lift. Should the patient's jaws be voluntarily or involuntarily locked, considerable force may be required to force them open. A screw gag is made for the purpose ; but failing this, a screw-driver or similar instrument inserted between the teeth will suffice to make a beginning, wedges of wood or cork can then be introduced to keep the ground •once gained, and the jaws may be forced open more and more until sufficient room is gained to pass the tube. To prevent its being bitten, either side-gags of wood or cork may be kept in place, or a ■centrally-perforated one may be used. ; Syphon Substitute for Stomach-pump.—M\ that is really required is an india-rubber tube, which, when passed into the stomach, is long enough to have its end brought below the level of the stomach, so as to produce syphon action. After the tube is in the stomach, fluid must be poured down through a funnel, by a syringe, or even from the operator's mouth on an emergency (Harvey). When the tube is filled, its outer end must be compressed, and brought lower than the end within the stomach, when the fluid contents of the stomach will flow out, by syphon action. As the exhausting action is gentle,93 EMERGENCY CASES. unless a very long tube is used, this method, while equally efficient, is safer than the stomach pump, as there is less risk of injurmg the mucous membrane. One great advantage, moreover, is the impossi- bility of its going out of order, as it contains no valves. If desired, it would be easy to attach a T-tube, so as to have a different entrance and exit pipe, as already indicated in the fore- going section on the stomach-pump. General Treatment.—(i) Get rid of as much poison as may still remain unabsorbed in the system. (2) Neutralise it, and diminish its etTects. (3) Give chemical and physiological antidotes, and treat symptoms. ... , . I. For poisons taken by the mouth and not already ejected, give ©dstics t— (1) Sulphate of zinc 20-30 grs. in half a tumbler of warm water. (2) Ipecacuanha in powder, in 15 to 30 gr. doses in warm water, or 5iij to 5vj doses of Vinum Ipecacuanhse. (3) Mustard, a table-spoonful in a tumbler of warm water. (4) Apomorphia, ^ grain hypoderraically ; \ gr. by the mouth (one of the least depressing and most rapid emetics). (5) Sulphate of copper, 10 grs. in warm water (apt to irritate). (6) Tepid water, large draughts of, soapy, greasy, or salt- followed by irritation of the fauces with the finger or a feather. If necessary, any of these emetics may be repeated once or twice. A'.j5.—Corrosive and the more irritant poisons which damage the mucous membrane of the stomach, contra indicate emetics, and still more the use of the stomach-pump. However, they usually cause vomiting by their own action. Narcotics, such as morphia and opium (unless in e.xcessive quantities, when it irritates), make vomiting extremely difficult. Except when contra-indicated as above, wash out the stomach with the stomach-pump in all cases where vomiting cannot be produced, or when any doubt exists as to poison remaining in the stomach after vomiting. II. Neutralise and dilute mineral acids with alkaline carbonates, well diluted in water or milk ; with lime water ; or with chalk, whiting, whitewash, wall plaster, or magnesia (heavy or the heavy carbonate), suspended in milk or water—or with water alone. Neutralise alkalies with acids, such as weak acetic, or mineral acids, lime juice, orange or lemon juice. For both acids and alkalies give demulcents, such as olive oil, milk, thick gruel, white of egg and water or milk, gum and water. III. Treat collapse by stimulants—e.g., alcohol, as brandy or whisky in doses fi-om 5i to 3iv according to circumstances; ammonia (sal-volatile); ether, by mouth or hypodermically {\ to I drachm) ; strong hot coffee (or tea), by mouth or per rectum ; strong beef tea or Liebig's extract ; and by applying warmth by hot bottles, and warm blankets. Give morphine where there is great pain. Special Treatment.—In carrying out the directions as indicated in the Table of Treatment for Special Poisons given below, it will be understood that the following general methods apply to all, unless where statement is made to the contrary.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK'. 94 (1) Emetics and stomach-pump. (2) Stimulants, where there is collapse. (3) Artificial respiration in all sudden and extreme cases, especially where the heart beats after respiration has ceased. (4) Massage in the form of superficial efBeurage to stimulate the heart, and of muscle-kneading to increase metabolism ; this, however, slows the pulse, and increases muscular activity (see under Massage.) (5) Faradic current, where stimulation is needed (see under Electricity). Where any of the above methods are especially applicable, they are mentioned in the Table. The cases are also supposed to be acute. Drugs marked with a star (*) are to be given hypodermically. TREATMENT FOR SPECIAL POISONS. Poison. Acid, Carbolic, Acid, Oxalic, Acid, Prussic, Alcohol, Arsenic, Treatment. \ oz. Epsom, or Glauber's salts, in J a pint or more of water. Emetics, or stomach-pump, and wash out with the above. White of egg in water. Stimulants and warmth (Murrell). (See detailed Treatment, p. 94). (See detailed Treatment under hydrocyanic acid, p. 94). (See detailed Treatment, p. 94). 1. Freshly-prepared hydrated ferric oxide, + in tablespoonful-doses given with a little water. Sub-carbonate of iron. Dialysed iron, followed immediately by common salt. Magnesia. 2. Olive or castor oil, and demulcents. 3. Warmth. Morphine* to allay excessive pain. 1. Tannic acid, hydrate of magnesia, or animal charcoal. 2. Morphine* in large doses, or pilocarpine.* 1. Rouse and stimulate as for opium and mor- phia poisoning. 2. Strychnine* ijV gr. t Treat tincture of ferric chloride, or strong solution of ferric sulphate, with flight excess of ammonia. Collect precipitate on muslm strainer, and wash out all odour of ammonia (}Vormley). Atropia (Bella- donna), . Chloral,EMERGENCY CASES. 95 Poison. Treatment. Chloroform,. . See ancestheiics. Corrosive Subli- mate, . . I. White of egg, wheat flour or gluten, m water or milk, or milk alone. Followed by emetic. Lead (Acetate), . I. Epsom or Glauber's salts, or weak sul- phuric acid. 2. Milk and white of egg. Opium or Morphia, (See below). Pbosphorus, . i. Special emetic, repeated 3 gr. doses of sulphate of copper (or other emetics). 2. Sulphate of copper, afterwards continued in I grain doses every \ of an hour. 3. Magnesia in demulcent drinks. 4. Avoid oils or fats. Strycimine,. . i. Chloroform—the vapour—or administered internally, or ether. 2. Tannic acid. 3. Chloral, paraldehyd, or nitrite of amyl. 4. Curare (?). 5. Artificial respiration. Tlie more common Poisons.—Having thus discussed briefly the treatment of cases of poisoning generally, we shall now describe in greater detail the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of some of the more common forms met with. (i) Opium (generally taken as laudanum) or Morphia-poisoning, begins with cerebral excitement, and soon passes into giddiness, drowsiness, and stupor, succeeded by perfect insensibility. From this state the patient may at first be roused, but he speedily relapses. Afterwards it becomes impossible to rouse him. Pulse at first small, quick, and irregular; respiration hurried ; skin warm and moist; all other secretions suspended. When coma sets in, breathing is stertorous ; pulse slow and full; pupils at first contracted, towards a fatal termination, dilated. Face placid, pale, and ghastly; eyelids heavy; lips livid. An excessive dose may excite vomiting by its irritant action, otherwise vomiting is not easily produced. In the worst cases muscles are flabby and relaxed ; lower jaw drops; pulse is feeble ; sphincters are relaxed. Diagnoiis is to be made from alcoholism and from apoplexy with contracted pupils—i.e., in the pons varolii {Wilkes). Judge by the history and smell of the breath (though alcohol and opium may have been combined). In many cases, correct diagnosis rnay be impossible, until the stomach-pump reveals the contents ol the stomach.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 96 Treatment.—Emetics—or, better, washing out the stomach with the stomach-pump. Preserve the contents of the stomach for after- examination. Rouse the patient by douching the head, slapping with wet towels, tapping on the forehead, faradic current; and, unless he seems too weak, force him to walk about. Have relays of assistants, two at a time, to drag him about. Stimulate him by hot coffee. Murrell advises a pint of hot coffee per rectum. Permanganate of potassium has been found to o.xidise and so neutralise the active properties of morphia when brought in direct contact with it. It is, therefore, a valuable local antidote in opium- and morphia-poisoning; but its value by hypodermic injection is considered very doubtful. After the contents of the stomach have been removed, a weak solution of permanganate of potassium should be used to wash out the cavity, and this washing out is to be repeated every half hour, because the morphia circulating in the blood is secreted into the stomach. The drug may also be given by the mouth, in 15 grain doses, and twice or thrice repeated. Give atropine, of grain subcutaneously, repeated in a quarter of an hour. Some advocate J to ^ grain, repeated in two hours. Patient may be allowed to sleep, when the tendency to intense stupor has passed off. (2) Alcohol.—Acute—When an excessive dose of strong alcohol is taken, or when raw spirits are given to children, the drug acts as a rapid poison, and sometimes kills on the spot. If this does not happen, the patient becomes more or less collapsed ; pupils are dilated—often contracted ; muscles relaxed. The patient is helpless, becoming soon comatose. If left in this state, he may rapidly sink. Treatment. —Wash out contents of stomach, or give emetics ; stimulate by warmth, and hot coffee per rectum, and rouse by means similar to those recommended for opium-poisoning. (3) Hydrocyanic (Prussia) Acid, and cyanide of potassium, used in photography, produce similar symptoms. Their effect is extremely rapid—from I to 2 grains of the pure hydrocyanic acid have proved fatal, and larger doses are certain. In doses insufficient to kill at once, the poison produces insensibility, pallor and swelling of the face, slow laboured respiration; eyes are fixed and glazed; the body becomes rigid—often convulsed. Treatment.—U there is time, (i) emetics, and stomach-pump; (2) cold affusion to the head, and stimulants; (3) chlorine, by the mouth, in the form of weak solutions of hypochlorite of sodium or lime, or inhaled as gas, which is formed by pouring dilute acetic or hydrochloric acid on either of the above salts ; (4) mix 10 grs. sulphate of iron with 5i tincture of iron and 5i of water ; when this has been taken, give 20 grs. carbonate of potassium in Ji of water. This renders insoluble no min. B. P. acid \Squire). (4) Oxalic Acid causes symptoms like those of an irritant poison. 7V«a^wtf»/.—Neutralise with lime in the form of chalk, whiting, or plaster. Avoid soda, potash, or ammonia. Give demulcents; treat collapse, and clear out bowels with castor-oil.97 TRACHEOTOMY. CHAPTER XI. TRACHEOTOMY. MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Contents.—A, Tracheotomy.—Requisites for the Operation—The "High" Operation—The "Low" Operation—Caution !—After- Treatment—Intubation of the Larynx— B. Minor Surgical Operations.—(il Removal of the Tonsils— (2) .Amputation of the Fingers or Toes—(3) Treatment of In-growing Toe-nail—(4) Injection of Spina Bifida—(5) Tapping a Hydrocele— (6) Paracentesis Abdominis—(7) Paracentesis Thoracis—Use of the Aspirator—(8) Air in Veins—(9) Circumcision—(10) Phymosis— (11) Paraphymosis. Tracheotomy is rendered necessary whenever death threatens from laryngeal obstruction which is not at once amenable to other treatment. Eequisites for Tracheotomy. — Chloroform; gauze-pads for sponging ; ligatures ; scalpel ; dissecting-forceps ; Pean or other compression forceps ; sharp hook ; director ; aneurism needle ; scissors; bone forceps (small); syringe with red-rub'jer catheter attached to suck fluid out of the trachea, feathers, and tracheotomy tubes. For uncomplicated cases the usual forms are sufficient. Fig- 33-—R. W. Parker's Tracheotomy Tube ; a, outer, b, inner. Durham's pattern is invaluable when the trachea lies deep in the midst of greatly swollen tissues (Fig. 36). The angled tubes of R. W. Parker 'g- 35)' are preferred on anatomical grounds, but the inner tube is liable to become bent at the cut away portion, and so to jam; moreover, thick mucus is apt to cake at the same point in the outer tube. The small flange for securing the inner tube had better be removed, when good nursing cannot be had, in case it should prevent the tube from being easily removed if blocked. The surgeon generally enters the trachea above the isthmus of the thyroid gland. This is known as the " high " operation. It is more easily accomplished than the operation below the level of the isthmus, 7 A. Tracheotomy.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 98 where a more difficult procedure is required, since here the trachea lies deeper. Indications for Tracheotomy are presented by the increasing dyspnoea of the patient. There is no tiine to delay when there is progressive cyanosis, embarrassed respiration, and Fie. 76.—Durham's Lobster Tail Tracheotomy Tube. The outer tube (A) can be projected and fixed at any distance from the shield by means ol the screw and collar at (B). The inner tube (C) is provided with a jomted tail which enables it to fit the outer tube. sinking-in of the intercostal spaces, false ribs, and root of the neck. Chloroform must be given with great care, and very httle is required. In adults cocaine suits admirably when there is no emergency. It is well to roll the patient (especially if a child) m a towel, so that the arms may be secured by the side. The neck and chest should be bared, the neck laid over a pillow and the head curved back so as to pull the windpipe from out the thorax, and increase its cervical extent. The head must be kept perfectly steady and straight. An accurate knowledge of the landmarks of the neck is essential. Where one cannot make out the pomum Adami, as yo"ng children, the more resisting ring of the cricoid cartilage may be telt, when the trachea is traced from below. • First 5/aF«.-The surgeon, standing on the patient s right side, with the palm of his left hand towards the patient s chin lays his left forefinger on the tip of the thyroid cartilage, while the thumb and middll finger on each side serve to hx the trachea ; and makes an incision prdonged from below his finger, through and fascia exactly in the middle hne, over the thjV''^.'^'^"^y^'J^^.tn few equal distance beyond it. Skin, fat, and 9^'^^'^^rj^^P^^„^^^ twigs of the anterior jugular vein, are thus divided. Bleeding points are secured with forceps. . .T,^,„„„r„i Second -The surgeon now inserts his finger into the wound and feefs the^ cricoid cartilage distinctly. It may be necessary to push aside some fat with the handle of the knife frder to do this. He divides now, with a small transverse cut, the the cricoid, and slips a blunt director underneath it, so that ne ifdps tWs fascia and the isthmus of the thyroid together with a few venous radicles which run into it, fn^m off the trachea. As the trachea in children is rather yielding, ana he fascia and isthmus comparatively strong adherent U i a Ster plan to thrust one bbde of a compression-forceps under the99 TRACHEOTOMY. fascia and isthmus on each side, and divide the tissue between the forceps as far as necessary. In this way, the upper two or three rings of the trachea are bared, and can readily be felt by the finger- tip. The knife is then held short, and plunged into the windpipe for a quarter of an inch with its cutting edge directed upwards and the incision slightly prolonged. The knife should be then withdrawn, and its handle introduced ; this, being rotated transversely to the wound, permits of the ejection of mucus, and acts as a director along which the tube may be now introduced. Should the violent upward movements of the trachea during forced respiration prove troublesome, fixation may be obtained by laying hold of the compression-forceps, which grip the isthmus of the thyroid gland and its fascia, or, by inserting a sharp hook to one side of the middle line, the parts may be steadied. The trachea is then readily incised. In the " low" operation, the operator must clearly bear in mind that the chief difficulties are met with as soon as the deep fascia of the neck is entered. The anterior aspect of the trachea below the isthmus is clothed with the inferior thyroid veins, which may form a complex anastomosis, and here also an abnormal thyroidea ima arterj- may appear. It may be necessary to push up the thyroid isthmus, and in the case of infants to push aside the thymus gland. As soon as the operator has carried his incision between the depressors of the hyoid, secured the superficial veins, and opened the deep fascia, then his troubles begin. The deeper veins must be separated with the handle of the knife, or grasped with compression- forceps wherever they cross, and the rings of the trachea should be iairly exposed and cleared before they are divided. Should there be great hemorrhage with urgent dyspnoea, it is well to open the trachea during the bleeding, after having allowed it to continue for a few seconds, since the venous bleeding will relieve Ihe engorged right heart. The hemorrhage and dyspnoea will cease frith the first respiratory efforts, and the inspired blood will be mostly expectorated. As far as possible, however, the opening of the trachea should not take place till haemorrhage is checked. The inspiration of blood is a fruitful source of subsequent pneumonia. The surgeon must impress on his assistants the importance of keeping the head steady, and must ever bear in mind that misfortunes may attend any deviation of the incision from the middle line. In children, the trachea is soft and yielding, and is readily missed— more especially if the surgeon passes a little to one side or the other. In very urgent adult cases, a rapid'vertical incision from the apex of the thyroid downwards will expose the crico-thyroid membrane, and by incismg this transversely, in order to avoid the crico-thyroid artery, rapid eiitrance can be obtained to the respiratory tract. Again, it is possible still further to gain room by proceeding next to divide the ring of the cricoid [Laryngo-iracheotany). Caution!—TYiZ operator should always stand a.side at the moment that the trachea is opened. Its contents are ejected with much forceA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. lOO and diphtheritic infection is not rarely brought about by direct contact in this manner. The tube should be securely tied in, taking care that the tapes do not obstruct the veins of the neck. A little iodoform should be smeared over the raw surfaces, and in the case of diphtheria suitable anti- septic applications used. The inner tube should now be inserted, and the patient put back to bed. Begin antitoxine treat- ment at once in diph- theria, if it has not already been given (see Appen- dix). After-treatment.— If all has gone well, the condition is now in marked contrast to the previous distress. The breathing becomes so gentle and easy that it is barely perceptible, and quiet sleep comes on. The future of the case depends largely on careful nursing. There should be two nurses to relieve each other. The patient cannot, without danger, be left for a moment alone. Expec- toration must be favoured, and this is to some extent promoted by keeping the atmosphere of the room moist. For this purpose a species of tent may be rigged up around the patient by means of blankets over clothes-screens, and the steam from a couple of bronchitis-kettles carried into it. This should not be overdone; a steam bath is not desired. Uniform temperature of 70 F. should be preserved, all draughts avoided, and good ventilation secured. Over the mouth of the tracheotomy tube a double fold ot hne gauze, wrung out of warm water, should be laid in order to hlier the air, and clots or mucus when ejected should be at once dexterously brushed away by the nurse. At first the inrier tube should be removed and cleansed every twenty minutes, if it is not coughed out during the interval. It should be well cleaned in warm carbolic lotion, anointed with a little glycerine and water, the super- fluous moisture dried off, and re-inserted It is ^="^17%'°,?'?" the lumen with ordinary poultry wing feathers. They should be carefully washed in carbolic lotion or boiled, and have the loose barbs removed, a precaution which is the more necessary when they Fig. 37.—Ordinary Tracheotomy Tube. Tapes tied in.TRACHEOTOMY. lOI are used to clear the tube in situ, or to stimulate the mucous membrane of the trachea. Every time the patient awakes, he should be fed. Brandy and beef-tea may be given freely, and digitalis in the event of impending cardiac failure. A close watch should be kept on the urine and condition of the chest. At the end of twenty-four hours the tube may be changed, a duplicate being ready. There is usually little difficulty, but it is well to have a director at hand. By pressing the end of the tube on one side of the tracheal wound, that edge is readily depressed, and the aperture rendered patent, and introduction thus facilitated. The tube is again changed at variable intervals of two or three days, according to the nature of the case. It is finally taken out about the fifth or seventh day ; but this again will vary according to circumstances. As soon as the patient can breathe without it, let it be taken out, provided the disease or cause of obstruction has been removed. When spasm develops on its removal, some difficulty may be experienced in getting the patient to use the larynx again for respiration. A new tube should be substituted, with a perforation on its convexity, through which the patient may speak when the finger closes the external opening. He is now encouraged to breathe as well as speak through the normal passages, by blocking the tube with a grooved cork, or by increasing layers of moist muslin, &c. The tube may, of course, be dispensed with entirely, whenever the respiration is perfect. After removal the wound rapidly closes. Emphysema rarely gives rise to trouble. The difficulty due to great swelling of the neck by which the trachea becomes buried, and the tube cannot pass deep enough, is obviated by using Durham's tube. In every case of diphtheria, isolation of the patient, and complete disinfection of every article that quits the room, must be practised. The swabs and cloth used for the tubes should be destroyed, and great vigilance exercised over the attentions of friends and relatives. Should a sudden call for tracheotomy arise from the pressure of a tumour, and one has reason to believe that the obstruction is direct and high in the neck, the "low" operation must be performed. Here again the importance of feeling the trachea, which is often displaced to one side, and also seeing that it is cleared of veins be- fore opening, is to be remembered. In adults, a pair of strong shears, or even bone pliers, may be required to divide ossified cartilage. /ntubation of the Larynx.—The propriety of intubation of the larynx has been again re-introduced. Macewen ol Glasgow has demonstrated how readily the trachea may tolerate the introduction of a gum-elastic tube resembling a No. 12 catheter, and has recorded successful ca-ses {Brit. Med. Journ., 1880). Since then, O'Dwyer of New York has invented laryngeal tubes—an introducer and ex- tractor—for intubation, and a number of authorities have reported gratifying results from the use of his apparatus. The results compare favourably with those gained by tracheotomy for diphtheria in many hospitals, but in private practice, where there can only be a nurse in charge, tracheotomy possesses distinct advantages. Should inluba-A SURGICAL handbook: I02 tion fail, one must be prepared to perform tracheotomy at once. The intubation instruments of Collin (Paris) are decidedly the best (see Fig. 38). A laryngeal tube of suitable size is selected, threaded, and affixed to the introducer by means of its obturator. The child, pinned in a towel to secure its arms, is laid flat on a narrow table, as if for tracheotomy. This position for intubation was introduced by the late Dr. Moon, of the Edinburgh City Fever Hospital. The gag is inserted on the left side of the mouth. The operator, standing at the patient's right, passes his left forefinger behind the epiglottis, so as to feel the rima, glides the introducer along his finger, and slightly tilting the point forward, as if making for the Adam's apple externally, avoids the oesophagus, and the larynx is entered. The mechanism of detaching the obturator forces the tube onwards, and it is now pushed home with the left forefinger. If this be successfully accomplished there is a violent paroxysm of coughing, mucus and membrane are violently expelled, after which respiration becomes tranquil. It is well to have the laryngeal tube mounted with the central core of a banjo D string, the wire being removed, except at the portion which lies between the teeth. This serves Fig. 38.—Collin's Intubation Instrument. to withdraw the tube at once if we have planted it within the oesophagus, or at any moment if it become blocked. It may be left in situ secured by a loop around the patient's ear, and fastened with adhesive plaster. The wire cannot be cut by the teeth. The hands should be secured in some fashion to prevent the child pulling at it. Intubation requires practice on the cadaver, but the necessary dexterity is speedily acquired. The child may become cyanosed during the operation. The beginner is apt to intubate the oesophagus, and may require to make several attempts before he succeeds. The tube should be withdrawn about the fourth day, and re-introduced if required. Removal by the extractor is not easy. The beaked extremity is to be passed within the orifice of the larjTigeal tube, the blades expanded, and so locked within the tube ; extractor and tube are removed together. The shorter tubes of Collin can also be expressed by the fingers applied externally. As a rule, feeding presents but little difficulty if the child be kept recumbent, and it soon gets used to the tube.MhVOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 103 (B.) Minor Surgical Operations. (i) Removal of the Tonsils.—In adults, who have the sense to keep their mouth open, this operation is a simple one for the surgeon, as well as nearly painless for the patient, especially if a S per cent, solution of cocaine has been previously rubbed well over the fauces ; but where a gag and an anaesthetic are required, the operation is often very troublesome. For adults (a.) the use of the vulsellum, and curved probe-pointed bistoury is still maintained, but for children {b.) the guillotine should be employed instead. [a.) With the Vulsellum. —The curve probe-pointed bistoury must be wrapped with lint to within an inch of the point. The tongue being kept down with a depressor, and the mouth held well open, the surgeon seizes the prominent tonsil with the vulsellum, and gently draws it towards the middle line. He then cuts off a slice with the bistoury. For a right-handed operator the right tonsil is the more difficult to remove. After grasping this tonsil, the operator may change the vulsellum into his left hand, and crossing his hands cut the tonsil with his right, working from below upwards. The left tonsil is seized with the vulsellum held in the surgeon's left hand, and is cut from above downwards with the knife held in the right hand. (b.) With the Guillotine.—When a guillotine is to be used, either Joimstock's or a Physick's instrument, as modified by Morell Mackenzie, may be selected. The latter, from its greater simplicity, is preferable. Mackenzie describes the method of using the guillotine as follows:—"The instrument being ready for use, the hilt is grasped in the right hand, and the aperture in the shank is placed over the tonsil. The surgeon, with the thumb or index finger of the left hand, placed under the patient's jaw, then presses the tonsil inwards, whilst at the same moment with the thumb of his right hand he drives home the blade of his tonsillotome " (Diseases of Throat and Nose, vol. i., p. 12). Usually, after tonsillotomy, the oozing very soon stops. Gargling the throat with cold water is generally enough. When the bleed- ing threatens to be troublesome, the raw surface may be painted with glycerine and tannic acid, or treated in some of the ways mentioned under the heading hcemorrhage (p. 63). (2) Amputation of the Fingers or Toes.—This maybe called for on account of bruising, or, in the case of the fingers, from sloughing following whitlow. A. Amputation of the Fingers.—From the second phalanx onwards to the point, as much should be left as possible, and in most cases the surgeon's only duty will be to trim the parts, and snip off bone that cannot be covered in by the soft tissues. In working-men, the first phalanx may sometimes be left with advantage (though this is contrary to the usual teaching), as it movesA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. I04 with the remaining fingers, and helps to strengthen the grasp. A stump of the index-finger, as giving a point of opposition to the thumb, is specially useful. The idea that the first phalanx has no independent power of flexion and extension was long since over- thrown by Duchenne. After amputation, it remains stiff, only as the result of sloughing and inflammation. Amputation at the First or Second Tnterphalangeal Joint is thus performed :—After applying a tourniquet above the wrist, the surgeon completely flexing the two bones, cuts on the distal end of the more proximal one, and thus opens into the joint (Fig. 39). He then cuts a long palmer flap either by dissection from without, or by carrying a narrow-bladed bistoury round the proximal end of the more distal phalanx, and cutting from within outwards. One or two small vessels generally require to be ligatured or twisted. Fig. 39.—Amputation of Fingers. In Amputation through the Second [or First) Phalanx, a similar long palmar and short dorsal flap is to be adopted, the bone being divided with bone forceps. Some prefer two equal lateral flaps, cut from without. At the Metacarpo-phalangeal Joint, the oval or V-shaped in- cision is most frequently adopted. A cicatrix on the palm is to be avoided. The parts are to be cleansed and purified as usual, a tourniquet applied, and an anaesthetic administered. An assistant steadies the hand, and, if the doomed finger be the middle or ring-finger, holds the adjacent finger aside. The surgeon then, holding the finger with his left hand, enters his knife about half an inch above the knuckle (nearer the wrist), and then carrying his knife straight down as far as the joint, next directs it obliquely down the side of the first phalanx to where the web joins the finger, and thence, round the palmar aspect of the finger, on to the dorsum again by a similar route. Having seen that these cuts are dJwn to the bone, he dissects back to the joint; and putting the ligaments on the stretch by bending the finger as required, he divides them, and removes the finger. Professor Chiene, instead of carrying the oblique cut quite to the web, when half-way towards it carries the knife down the side of the first phalanx to the first joint. Then, cutting across the palmar aspect of the finger, he returns the knife in a similar way, thus cutting, from the first phalanx," a square palmar flap of skin, whichMINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. can be turned up and fitted in without trouble. For the index or little finger, either method of operation is the same ; only, as the web is wanting on one side of each finger, the surgeon must, in shaping his flap, cut in to the point to which the web would have reached had it been present—and not short of this, as he is very apt to do. In the case of the little finger the incision may be carried well on the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, so that the scar may be out of sight in the usual semi-prone position of the hand. The rules for amputating the thumb are the same as those for am- putating any of the fingers. From the usefulness of even small pieces of the thumb, as much of it as possible should always be left. B. Amputation of the Toes.—In the case of the toes, amputa- tion—except in the case of the great toe—is always performed at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The oval method is also employed here ; but it must be noted that the web is further from its corre- sponding joint in the foot than it is in the hand, and, therefore, the straight part of the incision seems to be longer before the turn is taken towards the web. Any part of the Great Toe may be left with advantage, but if the metatarsal bone be removed, the phalanx is useless, and may as well go too. In amputating at the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, it is well to carry the inner incision as far as the end of the first phalanx, to en.sure a sufficient covering for the massive head of the metatarsal. (3) In-growing toe-nail is the term given to a condition in which, from the wearing of tight boots, a minute foul irritable ulcer forms beneath the outer margin of the nail of the great toe. There is usually considerable local inflammation, resulting in exuberant granulations which overlap the nail, and the unfortunate sufl^erer is disabled from walking. In treating this painful affection, it is rarely (if ever) necessary to split the nail and remove the offending portion. In place of such a severe procedure, it is only requisite to thoroughly wash the toe with carbolic lotion 1-20, and pack under the nail over the ulcer with a pointed piece of wood two to three long fibres of lint soaked in an antiseptic. Over all secure with thread a layer of moist lint, covered with guttapercha. Renew this dressing daily, paying particular attention to the packing. .After a couple of days, the guttapercha may generally be omitted, and finally, only the packing retained. The patient had better lie up at first in bad cases, and must discard his tight boots. (4) Injection of Spina Bifida with Morton's iodo-glycerine solution.* Requisites.—yLt<Y\\xm-<i\i^A trochar and canula ; small syringe (glass with vulcanite fittings) to fit canula ; iodo-glycerine solution {2 oz.) ; flexile collodion and brush ; probe, lint and cotton wool; a • Iodine, 10 gr5., potass, iodide, 30 grs., glycerine, i ounce.io6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. soft clean sponge, Ian, needles, fine silk, and fine silver wire {Morton). Operation.—The child is held face downwards. The surgeon punctures the swelling through sound skin if possible, avoiding the exact middle line and any umbilicated point. He next, if necessary, withdraws some fluid and slowly injects the iodo-glycerine solution (from a few min. to 2 drms., according to size, but usually from ^/j to I drm.) "Then," says Mr. Morton, "the syringe and canula are withdrawn at the same time, while with thumb and index finger of left hand, I grasp the sac at the punctured aperture, and hold the sides of it together, so that an assistant may apply the collodion there, and when that has been successfully done, about a square inch of lint saturated with collodion is placed over the point of puncture" (fine films of cotton wool, might be better). . . . "When the collodion is com- pletely dried and no oozing perceived, generally a piece of lint is laid over the tumour, and some finely-carded cotton wool around it, while the bandage usually worn by infants is so placed as to keep tie pro- tective dressings in position, care being taken not to make the bandage too tight." . „ ,, J. Absolute closure is imperative, hence the wire m readmess. CoUodion must be re-applied if need be. a ^ In three weeks, the question ol re-injection may be considered. (5) Tapping a Hydrocele.—The patient usually stands before the operator, who, for convenience, sits on a chair. The operator begins by recognising by the touch and by the sensations of the patient the position of the testicle, which, though usually behind and below the fluid swelling, may occasionally be found elsewhere. He then grasps the swelling with his left hand, and holding the testicle out ot the way, causes the fluid part to bulge forward between his fingers and his thumb; then, holding the trochar and canula in his right hand, he plunges it straight through the skin into the hydrocele. In so doing he avoids any visible vein, and selects a spot below the middle of the swelling. To avoid the risk of passing between the skin and the hydrocele sac, the plunge is made perpendicular to both, but at a place where the fluid separates the testicle from the sac sufficiently to allow the trochar to enter without injuring the testicle The trochar is then withdrawn, leaving the canula just within the sac, while the surgeon's left hand keeps up steady pressure on its contents. Where no injection of the sac is contemplated, as soon as the fluid has all escaped, the canula is withdrawn, and the aperture covered with collodion. WTien the sac is to be injected, a syringe fitting the canula is charged with Ihe desired fluid, which is then injected after the contents of the sac have escaped. After removing the canula, the injected fluid is left in the sac, and must finally be distributed oyer its intenor by grasping the scrotum at the point of puncture, and rapidly shakmg ' grthe'manT'fluids advocated, i-a drms. of the Edinburgh tincture of iodine has, perhaps, found most favour. In simple cases of hydrocele, this fluid seldom fails to cure. It causes con- siderable pain and swelling, however, so that the patient must be107 MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. kept in bed for three or four days after the operation. If a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine is shaken up in the hydrocele sac and allowed to escape, just before the iodine injection, the pain is very much diminished. After this, the swelling gradually diminishes till it disappears. Carbolic acid has been recommended as a substitute for iodine, ind its use is said to have the following advantages over that of iodine—less pain ; more certain cure ; less risk of sloughing ; shorter period of disability from work. About a drachm of the crystals is liquefied by as much glycerine (or water) as is just necessarj' for the purpose. The mode of procedure is the same as when iodine is employed. Many other fluids have been advocated, and their use has been attended by greater or less success. (6) Paracentesis Abdominis may be required for extreme ascitic distention ; the point selected should be in the linea alba 3 or 4 inches above the pubes. The bladder should be empty at the time of the operation. Usually, the patient is supported into the sitting position. To prevent distention of the abdominal veins by the too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, it is well to pass round the abdomen of the patient a broad flannel bandage, which is split in the middle for one end to pass through; the two ends are then dravra upon by an assistant at each side, and the loop round the patient is thus steadily tightened as the fluid escapes. The danger of syncope from too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, applies equally in large psoas or other intra-abdominal abscesses; where either the evacuation should be partial at first, or compen- sating abdominal support should be ensured. A medium-sized trochar and canula should be selected. The surgeon having satisfied himself by percussion that there is no bowel in the way, enters the instrument, and, on withdrawing the trochar, catches the fluid in a vessel held ready to receive it. A very convenient and gradual mode of withdrawing ascitic fluid is by means of a Southey's tube. One of these, with its tube attached, IS inserted into the linea alba, and left there for several hours, until a sufficient escape has taken place. (7) Paracentesis Thoracis may be required tor simple pleuritic effusions, when very large, and persistent, or for those of any size which have turned purulent. As the inspiratory movements of the chest are apt to draw air and with it organisms into the pleural cavity, an ordinary trochar should not be used. For diagnostic purposes a hypodermic needle may be pushed into the pleural cavity, and the syringe filled with the fluid ; but when fluid has to be drawn off in quantity, some form of aspirator must be used, i.e., either with an exhausted bottl'- or with a syphon tube attached. The part of the chest usually selected is about the level of the angle of the scapula in the mid-axillary line. To avoid the inter- costal vessels, the surgeon (where there is room for choice), selects the lower part of the intercostal space.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. io8 Local anaesthesia by freezing or by injection of cocaine is ad- visable (p. i8). /« the tise of the Aspirator the following points must be attended to:— [a.) That, to ensure a clear passage, immediately before and aftei use, the whole apparatus is run through with boiled water; and that, before use, the needles and canulse are boiled or steeped in 1-20 car- bolic lotion for ten or fifteen minutes. Take care also that the place of puncture, and operator's fingers, are thoroughly cleansed and purified. [b.) That the exhausting and not the filling end of the syringe is attached to the bottle, when preparing it for use. (The exhausting nozzle is generally lateral.) (c.) That the connection between the exhausted bottle and the canula in the abscess or other cavity is not opened until the needle or trochar is withdrawn, and its own stopcock closed. (d.) That on withdrawing the canula, the point where it has entered the skin is closed by having had previously laid upon it a piece of wool saturated in collodion. Note.—Th& patient should be recumbent. A stimulant should be at hand when the aspirator is used. (8) Air in Veins by the aspiration of the chest is a possible complication of operations on the neck and axilla, when the mouths of wounded veins remain open. The danger is due to the air getting churned up in the right auricle and ventricle, and obstruct- ing the pulmonary circulation, thus causing dyspnoea and, if in sufficient quantity, death. A minute quantity of air in the veins is harmless. The surgeon may be always warned of the accident by the peculiar sucking sound produced. Treatment consists in instantly putting a wet sponge over the wound, squeezing the chest to expel air already entered, and on cautiously removing the sponge to secure the open mouth of the ▼ein (Treves). j , x • (9) Circumcision, if for tight prepuce m children (or adults) is performed as follows:—WTien the child is ansesthetised, put a tight band round the penis and seize the exact ortjice of the prepuce with catch forceps, and draw it away from the glans. Grasp the tissues in front of the glans with a pair if dressing forceps, and with a knife or scissors cut off the ring of skin which lies in front of the forceps. The outer layer of skin will now retract—the inner layer (sometimes called mucous membrane) next the glans must now be carefully separated with a probe from the glans and turned back so as to expose it. This layer will probably require to be slit up at the uiraer side (opposite the fnenum) and may be trimmed with scissors. The surgeon having thus seen that the glans is thoroughly exposed as far as the corona, looks for and ties any cut vessels that he can see then stitches with catgut the outer and the reflected^ portions of the prepuce, and applies a dressing of collodion or Friar s balsam and wool before allowing the blood to return. UTien this dressing is removed at the end of a week, the part is generally healed. Circumwsion in adults may sometimes be required in consequenceMINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. log of venereal disease, where inflammatory phymosis may have ren- dered the cleansing and other treatment of sores under the prepuce impossible. When the prepuce is inilamed and where palliative treatment has failed or would take too long, the circumcision should be performed as follows:—Instead of grasping and drawing forward the prepuce, the surgeon must begin by inserting a director between the glans penis and the upper part of the prepuce; with a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, he then slits up both layers ol the prepuce as far as the corona. Each half oi the prepuce is then grasped with eatch forceps and held away from the glans, while the surgeon trims the superfluous prepuce (both layers) with scissors—leaving a margin all round and not touching the tnenum. As the parts are generally vascular, allow blood to return, and tie all bleeding points before stitching up. Powder with iodoform, and dress with strips of dry boric lint. Change dressing on second or third day, or at a later date if possible. (10) Phymosis—i.e., where the prepuce cannot be drawn back over the glans penis, may be congenital, or acquired from venereal inflammation. In slight non-inflammatory conditions, the prepuce may be gradually stretched by being drawn back daily. In more severe cases circumcision will be required. (11) Paraph3rmosis is where the prepuce, after having been drawn behind the glans, cannot be restored to its natural position. The narrow orifice of the prepuce becomes a tight constriction behind the glans, which in turn swells, and so aggravates the mischief. If the condition be not relieved in time, there is a risk of sloughing of the glans, as well as of the prepuce at the point of constriction. Treaimenf.—Oil the glans, and try to reduce by grasping the skin of the penis between the fore- and middle-fingers of each hand, while with the thumbs the glans is pressed back. Should this fail, or should there be much oedema, wrap the glans penis and prepuce in cotton wool, and then compress it with a narrow elastic bandage for twenty minutes, taking care that the elastic bandage extends no fiirther back than the point of constriction. This drives the serous effusion back into the body of the penis, and facilitates reduction, partly by thus diminishing the size of the glans penis, but still more by freeing the reflected part of the prepuce of serum, and so enabling it to double forward over the glans. A second attempt to reduce may now be made, followed by a repetition of the elastic pressure, if need be. Another method is to grasp the glans with the tips of the thumb and next two fingers, and thus to draw on the penis, then with the fingers of the other hand to try to slide the prepuce over the glans. Should these manipulations fail the constricting parts must be incised.no A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER XII. ON BANDAGINa. Contents. — Uses of Bandaging—The Roller Bandage — Rules for Bandaging —Typical Cases: How to Bandage (a.) the Foot; (b) the Hand — Cautions to be observed in Bandaging—The ■■ Spica" Bandage for (i) the Heel—(2) Knee joint—(3) Elbow— (4) Groin ('' Ascending" Spica)—(5) in Femoral Hernia ('' Descend- ing" Spica—(6) Shoulder—(7) Double Spica of the Groin—(8-9) Single and Double of the Mamma—(to) The Head (how to cover (a.f the Forepart; (*.) the Posterior Segment; (c.) the whole Scalp)—(11) How to Bandage the Fingers. The bandage is one of the most ancient forms of surgical apparatus, the simplest and most convenient. It is employed under varying circumstances and for many purposes, but its chief use is to give res' and support. With it one may retain splints and dressings, prevent and cure swelling, or check bleeding. Impregnated with some stiffening agent such as plaster of Paris, it gives us a rigid material most useful in the treatment of fractures and of other lesions. Simplest Form of Bandage.—Inasmuch as the proper applica- tion of a bandage requires an appreciation of certain principles necessary to attain the end in view, it is well to study the most elementary and fundamental form at length; this is the roller- bandage. It is intended in what follows that the student should apply the bandage as he reads, and carry out all the manipulations as they are described. The Roller-bandage, as provided in hospital, is usually made as follows :—Procure 6 yards of calico, about i yard in width, and remove the selvedges. Mark off with scissors short strips of the desired breadth; then grasp the alternate strips gathered in two separate bunches, and pull in opposite directions. From such a web one may thus obtain— 16 roUers, inches broad; suitable for the head and upper limbs. 12 „ 3 " " lower hmbs. 8 „ 4 .. •■ These are frequently known as eights, twelves, and sixteens. The strips must now be rolled. Start at one end as if makmg a cigarette with the fingers and thumb. Lay the small roll on a flat surface, such as a table, or on the thigh ; steady the loose strip with the left hand; press the right palm firmly against the roll and run it down over the strip, which will coil round, and we get a firm uniformly wound bandage. Or, again, the small , „ ^ initial roll may be held between Fig. 3y«.-Rolling the Bandage. forefinger and thumb of each band, and rolled with the fingers as shown in Fig. 39'?.Ill ON BANDAGING. In using a wnding machine (Fig. 40), care must be taken that the first few turns on the central pin are not very tight, so that when the bandage has been rolled, by grasping it firmly and reversing the handle once or twice, the pin is freed and may readily be withdrawn. few stray threads from the margin to keep it together, and the frayed Machine for Rolling Bandages. To finish off the bandage, a may be wound around the roll edges trimmed. To apply the band- age, select the size required, break the en- circling threads, and liberate the free end or "tail." The com- pact roll is known as the "head," and we may fiirther recognise an anterior and pos- terior surface, an upper and a lower margin. We may now look at the surface which we are about to bandage. Note that it is always curvilinear. It may be resolved into a series of cones, with bases or apices opposed, with here and there perhaps a short cylinder. In the lower limb, for example, we may trace a cone as we pass from the toes to the heel, another from the heel to the ankle; at the ankle, we may meet with a short cylinder, which is continued upwards as a cone, graaually expanding at the calf of the leg ; and so on. Rules for Bandaging.—General rules to guide one in bandaging may be laid down as follows :— -at. (1) Fix the bandage. (2) Bandage from below upwards, and from within outwards, over the fronl of the limb. (3) Use equal pressure throughout. (4) Let each succeeding turn overlap two-thirds of its predecessor. (3) Keep all the margins parallel, and let the crossings and re- verses be in one line, and rather towards the outer aspect of the limb. (o) t,nd by hxing the bandage securely Typical Cases—(a.) How to Bandage the Foot.—Let us exemplify this by covering in the left leg. Stand in front of the patient, who extends his foot. Grasping the roller in the right hand, lay the tail against the ball of the great toe. The bandage must now be earned in a loop around the ankle, and back again o the pomt from which it started (Fig. 41, A). Therefore, let ySu ""J '^"^ '1°''"'" °^ '° 'he outer malleolus, behind the an.le to the mner malleolus, across the dorsum and he first turn to the ball of the little toe, and beneath the sole to the great toe, thus making a double loop or figure-of-eightSURGICAL HANDBOOK. 112 ,nd fixing the end. We P/--\\%Kot'V tL^S^^^^ taking a complete turn over the fWe cannot, the toes, ascending on the .nside with ^,£"^f^/P^'e bandage would however continue jf-^P^J^d^relrun^^^^^^^^^ . The spi-al stray and portions ot the looi wou ^ is not suitable for „\"/uiee is of uniform breadth, the increasing diameter T^l^^^^iY^ ll"^). To make a reverse, Jrt^rKS^^n J^re^en^b^ k^^ort^ie^dy'— theW wi.b the ■n A ■ .h. Foot _fA) Fixing ;(B) Reversing ;(QFigure^f-Eight; Fig. 41—Bandaging the Foot.-W t c^ipUte. left forefinger against the dorsum of foot mther to the o^^^^^^ of the mid'dle line; pronate, and "d^^^^^^^^^ the'n out- to the inner aspect of the "J" ^;/3°Vtce^f t wards, so that a fold forms, .^^^^^ff .^j^e toes% '^e head no now exposed, the Sit^^Xs o ^ '^^^^^^^^^ - ^^^^ T longer rolls on the foot, but requires i-" ^ , g^t. As the rolllr under the sole upwards with a f ^f of Te limb, it is bandage passes from the o^t/fe to the ins.de m received by the left hand, and tra-fe^ed again ^ The bandage now reaches the point ot he ^ 3g^.ond higher level, ov^J^PP-S j^^f,^^^^^^^^^ fixing reverse is required. Again J^e repeat o ^ ^^^^ ^j^^^ the margin in the same line as P^^,^7°"V„° „ into view, and the now we bring tl- -^^'^^ -P-' t make two or three' reverses. bandage again rolls. In ^h's way, we ma • alternately allernatelf rolling and unwinding Wage expos ^ g^^^ its anterior and Posterior surfaces^ As we J^^^ smoothly, that ever, it will be found that the bandage no longer is because we approach the ^^^f^''?^>^^:°:^ll (Fig. 41, C). In wherever that occurs the gVutermalleolus, and so come £nins The&rCt:rr the dorsum, under theON BANDAGING. 8 sole, ascend on the inner side, cross the dorsum, and so back to the internal malleolus. This is repeated until such time as we reach the ankle, when, as we now meet a simple cylinder, two or three spirals are available. The bandage once more shows by its tendency to stray that we are at the cone of the calf, and again reverses are employed. To finish the bandage, a figure-of-eight turn is made around the upper part ol the calf, and the tail of the bandage is fixed at the last reverse by means of a pin inserted parallel to its margins (Fig. 41, D). A\ e may here observe that the simple spiral is used in the case of " cylinders, the reverse when covering cones, and the figure-of-eighi at the basal junction of cones. Typical Cases—(^.) How to Bandage the Hand.—Just as we bandaged the lower e.xtremity, so may we bandage the upper. The arm should be extended and prone, so that the palmar aspect of the hand occupies a position similar to the plantar of the foot. Small oblong pads of dry cotton wool (preferably charged with some non- imtating antiseptic) are laid between the fingers so that the skin secretions may be absorbed. It is of cardinal importance that the skin-surfaces should always be kept apart, or else chafing will cer- tainly ensue. The hand now corresponds to the foot. The forefinger „ „ great toe. The little finger ,, „ little toe. The wrist ,, „ ankle. The thumb „ „ heel. The mitial figure-of-eight turn for fixation is made by laying the tail of the bandage under the second phalanx of the forefinger, loopmg round the wrist, descending to the terminal phalanx of the little finger, and so on in every respect just as we bandaged the foot. As the heel was left exposed, so also do we leave the thumb free. In bandaging the left limbs, our man- ipulations are chiefly carried out with the right hand; but in the case of the right limb the left hand is employed, a task which, at first somewhat awkward to accomplish, becomes easy with practice Cautions!—It is of the utmost importance that there should never be any constriction of the limb. The bandage should exert uniform pressure with ease and comfort to the patient. It is necessary to increase the tension somewhat with the circumference of the limb In any case, the condition of the exposed digits affords a sure guide 42.—Bandaging the Hand. b. Reversing. a. Fixing ;A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 114 to the state of the circulation. In children especially, the utmost care is requisite, lor their soft tissues yield readily and with a moderate amount of force constriction may be caused, the circulation a h fig- 43—Bandaging the Closed Fist.—<», Figure-of-eight I.oops; b. Finishing. impeded, and gangrene, as the result of tight and careless bandaging, ensue. The slightest oedema or discoloration is a warning, which we dare not neglect. B. Special Forms of Bandage: The Spica. This is simply a figure-of-eight, and the term " spica" refers to the cross-like arrangement seen at the intersections of the figure-of- eight, which bear a certain resemblance to the arrangement of glumes in a spikelet of wheat. (From the Lat. spica, an ear or spike of corn). The terms ascending and descending spica are employed according to the manner in which the successive turns mount or descend upon the limb. In order to cover in large prominences, such as the heel, the bent knee, and elbow, a modification of the figure-of-eight, known as the " Divergent Spica," is made use of. (i) Divergent Spica for the Heel.—Lay the tail against the external malleolus, and carry the roller under the sole to the interna] Fig. 44.—Divergent Spica of the Heel. malleolus, and thence from within outwards over the dorsum to the point from which you started, thus fixing the bandage. Now115 ON BANDAGING. travel over the tip of the heel, so that its most projecting part is embraced by the tense middle portion of the turn, and the two margins are left loose. Pass over the dorsum and again round the heel, diverging from the tip, so as to fix the lower loose margin ; the next turn, passing round the heel at a higher level, includes the upper loose margin. In this way the middle third of the first turn ■over the heel is exposed, and the succeeding turns confine and overlap the loose margins of their predecessors. The bandage may be carried over the forepart of the foot and up the leg, if necessary. Such a bandage serves to retain dressings, &c., but is not frequently required. (2) Divergent Spica of the' Knee-joint.—Tht. limb must be slightly flexed. Lay the tail against the inner condyle. Pass the roller over the front of the patella, and outer condyle back to the starting point. The second turn travels in a similar direction, but at a lower level, so that the lower loose margin of the first turn is fixed, and in a similar way the third turn secures the upper loose margin. A transverse I^ig- 4S-—Divergent Spica of the Knee-joint. elliptical series of margins, which imbricate, are thus seen in front of the knee-joint, and a limited range of movement is allowed, as the layers glide easily on each other like scale-armour as the limb swings to and fro. Such a bandage may be useftil in giving support to a ;omt which has been inflamed. It specially protects the postenor and lateral aspects of the joint; the anterior does not require such covering, owing to the patella. In cases of varicose veins, an ordinary bandage carried from below upwards, and over the knee, will allow the patient to walk freely, if the divergent spica be employed. (3) Divergent Spica of the Elbow differs in no respect from that of the knee. It is employed in cases where we keep the arm at rest in the flexed posiUon, as after fractures and injuries to the joint.Ii6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (4) Spica of the Groin—(a. Suitable Jar Inguinal Hernia.—To form the first loop (Fig. 46), lay the tail over the external abdominal ring of the ruptured side, and carry the roller upwards and outwards around the pelvis, midway between the great trochanter and the crest of the ilium back to the starting-point, where it crosses the tail. To form the second loop carry the bandage over the outer aspect of the thigh round into the perinseum, and back to the starting-point again. In this way a series of crossings are pro- duced, each higher than the preceding one, with which we may exert pressure all along the line of the inguinal canal. Beneath each crossing a small flat compress of lint may be laid so as to aflbrd sufficient pressure. {b.) For Femoral Hernia (Fig. 47). — Lay the tail over the saphenous opening, and carry the roller over the symphysis and round the pelvis at the same level as before. As the first loop is completed, the bandage is next passed downwards into the perinseum and outwards round Fig. 46.—Spica of the Groin —Ascending Form. pig_ —Spica of the Groin— Descending Form. Fig. 48.—Double Spica of the Groin. the thigh back to the starting-point; thus the second loop is finished and the succeeding turns follow in the same manner, each lo«er Xn the preceding one. It will be observed that, as regards he successive^crossingl the line of support in each case agrees with the117 ON BANDAGING. direction of taxis used in reducing the hernia, viz., from below upwards, in the first case—from above downwards, in the second. (5) Spica of the Shoulder is practically the continuation upwards ot the bandage of the upper extremity. The larger loop of the t5gure-of-eight is formed by passing from the highest limit of the upper arm over the shoulder and behind the chest, under the opposite axilla, and back again over the shoulder. As the smaller loop is formed by carrying a turn round the arm, the crossing takes place in the line of the last reversal. In this manner, by continued overlapping turns, the whole shoulder may be covered in. We do not carry the bandage around the neck, since it is so freely moveable; but we select the chest instead, much in the same way as we take the fixed pelvis when applying the spica of the groin, in preference to the mobile abdomen. Just as the rise and fall of the abdominal panetes would vary the tension of the bandage, so also would the movements of the neck relax or tighten the figures-of-eight, and the bandage would not be secure. _ (6) Double Spica of the Groin is of little practical importance, but IS sometimes used to retain dressings. The diagram (Fig. 48) explains itself. There are three crossings produced, one at each grom, and one m the middle line. This bandage might be used in IF!g. 49—Bandage for Left Mamma, begun, F'iK- 50—Double Spica for Left Mamma cases where there was an inguinal hernia on one side, a femoral on the other. For double hemiae of the same kind, it is better to apply a separate single roller to each. (7) Single Spica of the Mamma (Left).—Lay the tail against theA SURGICAL HANDBOOK, ii8 left side, and take a complete circle round the anterior aspect of the waist, travelling towards the mammae, so that the roller confines the tail. Support the left breast gently with one hand, while with the other carry the bandage from below upwards ; with- drawing the hand, the bandage takes its place, and the second loop is completed as the roller travels to the right shoulder, and obliquely over the back to the point from which the ascending loop started. A series of such figures-of-eight may be superimposed as required (Fig. 49). (8) Double Spica of the Mamma, may be compared with the double spica of the groin. The one breast is supported from below upwards, the other from above downwards, just as in the two forms of hernia. Where both mammse are inflamed, separate bandages for each are more useful {Fig. 50). (9) How to Bandage the Head.—The divergent spica is the typical bandage for the head. Owing to the tendency of the figure- of-eight loops to slip on this part of the body, it is important that the initial and concluding turns should be secure, and that all should have a mutual dependence. Three main series of loops, at right angles to each other, are employed, (i) One, horizontal in direction, passing above the level of the ears, grips the cranium firmly (Fig. 51) Fig. 51.—Knotted Bandage of the Head—beginning. Fig. 52.—Formation of Divergent Spica over Anterior Part of Head. between the frontal eminences and superciliary ridges anteriorly, and below the occipital protuberance posteriorly. {2) A second series, coronal, runs from the vertex below the chin, passing behind and sometimes in front of the ears. A third final turn courses over the vertex from behind forwards. At the various crossmgs, pms should be inserted, or all may be basted together with a needle and thread. To cover in the Fore Part of the Head, proceed as follows:— Grasp the loose tail in one hand, and carrj' the roller around the head to form the horizontal turn. Pass the roller beneath the loose end, carry it at right angles to the first turn, and so form theON BANDAGING. 119 coronal circle. The scalp is thus divided into an anterior and a posterior segment; one may, therefore, cover each of the exposed portions with a separate divergent spica, making use of the loose tail as a fixed point, around which our successive turns play, as seen in the diagram (Fig. 51). Finally, by carrying the bandage from behind forwards we complete all; for to this concluding turn the others are all pinned, and so secured. The posterior half 0/ the scalp is more difficult to cover in. By giving an increased obliquity to some of the loops, by carrying ;. 53—Postero-Anterior Turn—Con- Fig. 54—Complete Knotted Bandage, elusion of Knotted Bandage. the turns around the forehead, under the chin, and, perhaps in front of the ears—according to the individual peculiarities of the head in Fig. s^a. Fig 54*. question—a good result may be obtained. We may proceed also in a somewhat similar way without the loose tail, and keep the bandage120 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. ur -A- series of figure-of-eight turns, horizontal and obhque in direction, as shown in Figs. 54a and 54*^, are employed. It will be noted that the vertical turns loop in front of and behind the respective ears. Should the shape of the skull prevent the application of such a bandage, or if it be desirable to cover in the whole scalp, the capeline bandage or double-headed roller may be used as follows:— To Cover in the whole Scalp.—Y^Xtn two rollers together as shown in Fig. 55. Let one be rather longer than the other. The larger roll should always circle round the head, the smaller should after the first turn travel backwards and forwards. The horizontal turns serve to fix the vertical, which form a divergent spica. Stand behind the patient with the larger roller in the left hand, the smaller in the right. Lay the bandage against the root of the nose, and carry the rollers horizontally directly backwards. Change hands at the occiput, and let the horizontal turn cover in the vertical one, which should now be carried forwards right over the nose, at the root of which it is fixed by the circling horizontal turn. The vertical turn is now carried back again to the occiput, slightly to one side of the middle line, and is once more fixed posteriorly by the horizontal turn —and so on. Care must be taken not to diverge too rapidly, and to come well down to the glabella in front and below the occiput behind at every turn. In this way, a most firm and secure bandage is obtained, which defies every attempt to take it down. It is, however, somewhat heating, and the superimposed circling turns are rather constricting, and apt to induce headache. Gauze bandages do not give rise to this objection. Fig- 55-—Beginning the Cape- line Bandage, viewed from behind. Fig, 56.—Capeline Bandage, from the front.121 ON BANDAGING. The divergent spica may be used for the head with a single roller, if one have assistance. A couple of horizontal turns to fix the bandage are made. The roller then passes at right angles from occiput to glabella, and at each angle is fixed by the assistant's fingers, which must be firmly applied, and which will serve to confine the extremities of each turn of the divergent spica. Finally, a concluding couple of turns replace the fingers, secure the ends of the bandage of the vault, and safety- pins, transfixing all the folds, are inserted in front and behind. (ii) How to Bandage a Stump.—In a similar way, one may bandage a stump. Here the thumb and fingers serve to grasp the ends of the divergent spica, which passes over the face of the stump. Final circular turns and pins hold all together. ffojv to Bandage the Fingers.—As a rule, the digits receive suflBcient support with the ordinary bandage for the hand. Small dressings may be secured with a few turns of worsted. If thought necessary, a narrow bandage for the prevention of oedema is put on by taking a turn around the wrist, passing to the tip of the finger in question, gently spiraling to the web, and so back to the wrist. One may also go from finger to finger, taking a turn round the wrist between each. For the thumb, a figure-of-eight is desirable. Kg- 57-- -Bandaging the Eye. CHAPTER XIII. BANDAGING— Continued. Contents.—Looped Bandages.—(i) For the Heel—(2) Looped and Reversed Bandage for Varicose Veins—(3) Bandage for use after Excision of the Breast—(4) For the Perinseum—" Lithotomy " Position—The " Clove Hitch : " How to make it—The T-Bandage —The Four-Tailed—The Many-Tailed Bandage—The Triangular Handkerchief — The Square Handkerchief — The Suspensory Bandage, &c. Looped Bandages. (1) Looped Bandage for the Heel {Right Foot).—Y{.vi'mg covered in the forepart of the foot, and ascended to the instep (as formerly described), carry the roller over the tip of the heel back to the instep.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 122 Fig. 58.—Looped Bandages for the Heel, and dip down to the sole. Now carry the bandage round the side of the heel under the malleolus, then to the tendo Achillis, and back to the instep. Repeat looping round the internal malleolus in the reverse direction (Fig. 58). (2) Looped and Reversed Bandage.—This form was, previous to the introduction of Martin's rubber-bandage, a favourite in the treatment of varicose veins of the leg. It gives great support, and cUngs with such tenacity that it does not readily become loose, or come down while the patient walks. Let us imagine that the right hand or loot has been already covered in, as formerly described, and that *;he few spiral turns usually made at the wrist or ankle have been completed. In place then ot making a reverse at once, the spiral is continued to the posterior aspect of the limb. Here the surgeon, fixing the lower margin with the right hand, the left hand supinating, executes the reverse, and the roller is made to loop downwards round the back over the last turn. It is thus looped around the limb, and ascends parallel with the first turn, crossing the upper part of the second. Reaching the back of the limb, the wandering spiral is brought back with a reverse similar to the last, and again we loop a b I^'ig- S9-—Bandage of Hand and Forearm.ON BANDAGING. 123 down, around, up, and reverse. Whenever we reach the back of the limb ascending, a reverse is required. Sweep the bandage <: d 'ig. 60.—Looped and Reversed Bandage for the Forearm. around the limb with boldness. Never mind how far it seems to stray m makmg the ascent, since the reverse will bring it back agam with ease. As usual, let all the margins be parallel, and only expose one-third of each turn. (3) Bandage for dressmg after Excision of the Breast {Right).— Apply the dressing, cover the sound breast with antiseptic wool. Lay the tail of the band- age over the sound breast. Ask the patient to bend the knees and arch the back, and sweep the band- age underneath the back to the starting point. Again carry the bandage around and to the front at a loiver level, so as to confine the margin of the dressing. Pass pos- teriorly up to and over the sound shoulder, come down in front under the elbow, and up behind the arm over the right shoulder. Now loop in front, obliquely down- wards, across the chest; and upwards, posteriorly, to the left shoulder Descend in front of the arm under the elbow, over the back to the nght shoulder and down over the hand. Pins must be inserted at the crossings, or the whole basted. This bandage may be Fig. 61.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 124 modified in various ways. Thus, the left shoulder may be left quite free, and the figures-of-eight run as in Fig. 6i. This is practically the looped bandage of Fig. 58, the elbow and shoulder representing the heel. \ Fig. 62.—Diagram of Looped Bandage Fig. 63.—Looped Bandage for of Perinaeum seen from below.—T, Perinaeum, or St. Andrew's Thighs; S, Scrotal Triangle; A, Anal Cross Bandage— First Turns. Triangle. {4) Looped Bandage for the Perinceum,—This is used in the application of dressings to the scrotum, &c. Lay the tail midway between the left anterior superior spine and the great trochanter. Sweep round the pelvis at the same level back to the starting-point; thus fixing the bandage. Dip down into the perinaeum over the left Fig. 64.—Looped Bandage for Perinaeum—Crossing of the Loops. groin ; pass in front of the anus, and carry the bandage upwards in the line of the right gluteal fold to the hollow between the right anterior superior spine and great trochanter. Sweep round the pelvis towards the left, and back to the right side again. Dip into the perinaeum over the right groin, up over the left buttock;125 ON BANDAGING. circle round towards the right, and begin once more at the left side (Fig. 64). Fig. 65.—Forming Loop for Lithotomy Position. A substitute for the clove- hitch. Fig. 66.—Lithotomy Posi- tion — Fixing Hand to Foot. Fig. 67.—Lithotomy Posi- tion—Hand and Foot Fixed. The assistant secures The "Lithotomy" Position.—F©r operations on the perinseum, the well-known "lithotomy" position is the most suitable. The patient, laid on his back and deeply under the influence of an ansesthetic, is pulled down on the table till bis breech just pro- jects beyond it. A clove-hitch (see below) is secured to each wrist, the thighs are flexed on the abdomen, and the legs on the thighs; and now, by seizing the free ends of the clove-hitch, the wrist is brought down to he opposite the external malleolus, and secured to the foot by firm figure-of- eight loops, as in Figs. 66, 67. During the operation, care must be taken to main- tain the pelvis firm and square, with the thighs in the same position on each side, the legs by holding the sole with both hands, the knee resting in the middle. The " Clcme-Hitch" is made as follows:—Grasp the bandage, &c., with the left hand supine and the right prone, as indicated in the figure, now pronate and supinate the two hands respectively (Figs. 68, 69), and slide both loops on to the left hand (Fig. 70). Another plan is to make two successive loops in the same direction, and place one behind the other. (5) 7'he T-Ba7idage is employed for the perinseum. The hori- zontal limb passes around the pelvis ; the vertical limb—single, double, or split—serves to retain rectal dressings, with the advantage that the split tails may come up on each side of the scrotum. (6) The Four-tailed Bandage is used in fracture of the lower jaw. (7) The Many-tailed Bandage (or bandage of Scultetus), consists of a central strip or backbone of bandage, to which some eighteen shorter imbricated strips (Fig. 71) are stitched at right angles. The limb is laid on the bandage so that its axis corresponds with theA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 126 central strip, and beginning at the periphery, the strips are gently and hrmly folded over as seen in the diagram. A pin at each side securing the two last strips to their predecessors, serves to fasten ali Figs. 68, 69, 70.- Forming the CIove-Hltgh. safely. By taking out the pins, and flinging the tails right and left, the whole bandage is readily taken down, and a fresh dressing having been applied, the strips may once more be folded over so that the limb need not be disturbed in the least. The bandage is recommended for burns, painful wounds, as also for the abdomen and thorax. Sister Stenhouse uses the following convenient method of keeping the tails in their relative position before the bandage is applied. The bandage is laid out flat, and a strip of folded paper about an inch wide and of sufficient length is laid across the free ends of the tails, on each side. Round the paper the tails are then folded inwards towards the centre till the two sides meet. In this form the bandage can be con- veniently handled. Fig. 71. —Many-Tailed Bandage. (8) The Triangular Handkerchief.—The use of slings, in place of the bandage, has been revived in recent years. F^smarch of Kiel has especially drawn attention to their use in military surgery. The handkerchief possesses many advantages. It can be speedily and easily applied. It is available for many varied purposes, and is readily washed. In using the sling, the base of the triangle should always be applied to the part which requires support. Thus we seeON BANDAGING. 127 In Figs. 73 and 74, the elbow and wrist suspended. The loose end may be tucked up, and for neatness, secured with a salety- pin ; but on no account should the pin bear any weight—that is all borne by the longer ends of the handkerchief, which should be tied in a reef-knot. Fig. 79 shows the sling adapted to retain dressings on the head. In a similar way, we may cover in the hand or foot. With one handkerchief rolled as a cravat, and applied so as to give a fixed point, a second may serve to secure a dressing, as in Figs. 77 Fig.. 72 and 73--Triaiigular Handkerchief supporting the Elbow, a and b. and 78, where the shoulder and hip are seen covered in. Such examples may sufiSce. (9) TIu Square Handkerchief.—h good head-dressing may be formed from a square handkerchief (40 in. square), folded across 4 inches beyond Us middle hne, and laid over the head, as represented on the left side of Fig. 80. The two outer comers, that is, those of the smaller portion of the napkin, are first carried beneath the inner corners, and Ued under the chin. The edge of the inner and larger portion IS then turned up over the forehead, and its corners are secured at the nape of the neck. A four-tailed handkerchief (Fig. 8i) and one with six tails, have also been used for a similar purpose (10 Suspensory Bandage.-This refers to the suspension of the testicles, and rnay be called for in orchitis and epididymitis, varico- cele, or when the skin of the scrotum is ulcerated or eczematous.128 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. t S^- 7<-—Triangular Handkerchief Fig. 75.—Triangular HandlcerchieJ supporting the Elbow, e. supporting the Forearm. Fig. 76.—Triangular Handkerchief Fig. 77.—Dressing for the supporting theForearm from the Shoulder with Handker- Opposite Shoulder, a//<-r£j«ian;A. chiefs, afttr Esmarch.129 ON BANDAGING. An open net-work bag to hold the testicle, attached to a waist- band, is sold by chemists and instrument-makers. Failing this, an extempore support may be made from a triangular piece of cloth. Fig. 78.—Dressing the Thigh with Hand- kerchiefs, after Esmarck. Fig. 79.—Triangular Handkerchief for the Head. The dependant Angle is to be turned up and pinned over the Vertex. A waist-band is first applied, and the long ends of the triangular cloth are fixed to it The straight edge of the cloth is brought under the scrotum, and the point carried over it and fixed above. A pair of well-fitting bathing-drawers, padded with cotton wool, Fig. Sc.—The Square Handkerchief for the Head. Fig. 81.—Square Handkerchief used for the Head, after split- ing as at A. if necessary, make an excellent suspensory bandage. Some use a T-bandage, the vertical part of which (of broad flannel) is carried from the back up over the scrotum, so as to raise it. An aperture may be cut for the penis to allow of micturition, without the necessity of taking the bandage down. Strapping the Testis is frequently required to remove swelling 9A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 13° after acute orchitis or epididymitis. Some lint, and about a dozen stnps of stickmg-plaster, y^-va. wide, and long enough to encircle the testis in both directions, are required. The affected testis is first isolated in the scrotum, by a circle of hnt at its upper part, over which is a layer of plaster. The organ cannot now slip away, and it must be covered with successive layers of plaster, longitudinal and circular. In a few days the swelling by subsiding will have left the plaster loose when it must be applied again.ON FRACTURES. CHAPTER XIV. ON FRACTURES. Contents.—A. Fractures In General—Diagnosis—Importance of kno\vnng the History of an Injury—Examination of the Injury— Setting of the Fracture—Essentials of Treatment—Prognosis— Materials for Splints—Passive Motion—Union and Non-Union— "Greenstick" Fracture—"Dislocation" and "Fracture," dis- tinction between. B. Special Fractures of the Upper Extremity—Treatment of Fracture of (i) the Clavicle; (2) of the Body of the Scapula; 3) of the Humerus; (4) of the Forearm; (5) of the Olecranon; 6) of the Radius above the Wrist (CoUes' Fracture); (7) of the Metacarpals and Phalanges. A. Fracttires in General. There are comparatively fevir of the surgical ailments which fall into the hands of the general practitioner of greater importance than Fractures. The future usefulness of a fractured limb depends largely on the diagnosis and on the consequent treatment. More- over, the cases vary so greatly in difficulty, and so much hangs on the result of the first examination, that it is well to study each, no matter how simple, with method and exactness. Diagnosis.—Importance of knowing the History of the Injury.— When a person sustains a fracture, some provisional treatment is usually required and obtained from the by-standers (see Chap, xviii). The surgeon should note carefully the history of the accident. He must ascertain when and how it happened, and should direct special attention to the position of the patient at the time of the injury. It is of importance to know if the limb was used or moved there- after, and to what extent. People have been known to walk even a considerable distance with one of the bones of the leg broken. We wu:h to know the nature and amount of force which brought about the fracture, whether the violence was direct or indirect, so that we may be able to form an opinion as to the position and line of the fracture, and of the character of the displacement. Examination of the Injury.—To follow out a completeA SURGICAL handbook: 132 examination, have the limbs stripped and exposed. It is a good rule to remove the clothing from the sound limb first, after which the injured limb can be more readily freed. In like manner, when the patient is able to put on his coat or trousers, he should always begin with the injured extremity. It is best to cut away the clothing in bad cases. The companion-limb should be laid in a position similar to that of its injured fellow, and having ascertained whether there has been any former lesion or deformity, both may be compared. A glance may reveal the presence of abnormal elevations, de- pressions, or the filling up of hollows. Measurements should now be made. For this purpose certain fixed bony points should be selected on each side, and marked with ink. In the case of the leg, we would indicate the anterior-superior iliac spines and the tips of the external or internal malleoli. The surgeon then stretches an inch-tape or bandage from the one point to the other, so that it barely touches the skin; and looking vertically down on the ink-marks, reads off the length. For comparison and measurement both limbs should be laid in the same position. It must be remembered that normal limbs are subject to slight variations in length—the left leg being not infrequently longer than its fellow; and again, old inflammatory affections may have modified growth by causing increase or decrease in length. The surgeon should also gently pass his finger along the line of the fractured bone, noting any irregularities, as well as the locality and extent of the area where the patient has pain or tenderness. It is now generally possible to say whether there be a fracture or not. One can form a fair estimate of the injury and of the dressings required. If there be no great amount of swelling, the sooner apparatus is applied the better. This should be of as simple a character as possible, consistent with efficiency. Setting of the Fracture.—The setting of the fracture, and its retention in the proper position, depend on a knowledge of the chief displacing cause. This varies greatly. The force itself may have been the means of carrying the broken ends apart, and all that is needful, now that the violence has expended itself, is simple reposition. Again, muscular aciioti may have wrought the evil, or may keep fractured surfaces asunder; in which case, relaxation by position of the muscles concerned, or gradual exhaustion of them by means of continuous extension will succeed. The weight of the limb, causing an outward rotation or separation of surfaces, is easily counteracted by giving support. The nature of the litie of fracture, be it transverse or oblique, is also a matter of great moment, and must be taken into careful consideration in adopting a mode of treatment. Before setting the fracture, make sure that your splints are of the proper size. This is easily done by shaping them on the normal limb. All being in readiness, the surgeon sees that the limb is firmly and steadily grasped above the seat of fracture by~^an assistant, while steady continuous extension is made below—the surgeon laying his fincers over the fracture, and manipulating there, if need be. As the fractured surfaces are brought into apposition, the feehng133 ON FRACTURES. of crepitus is often elicited. Where of parallel bones one only is broken, there is usually little displacement, and crepitus is not always to be obtained with ease. The plan of placing the fingers at each end of the bone, and making pressure while they approach each other, will aid largely in showing the seat of pain and obtaming characteristic crepitus. Thus in fracture, pressure at a distance will localise pain at the injured spot; in a bruise this does not occur. In difiScult cases, for diagnosis and reduction, chloroform is invaluable. If swelling should obscure the lesion, one is justified in deferring diagnosis, and meanwhile directing treatment to allay the swelling by means of rest, pressure, and evaporating lotions, as occasion may indicate. In all doubtful cases the value of the X-rays is great. The injured limb should not only be "screened," but a skiagram also taken. Such a detailed method of examination as we have given above is not, however, always necessary. In many cases, the well-known salient characters of the injury most frequent at the site in question are easily recognised. Should this not be the case, then the further methodical search indicated above is called for. In regard to treatment when confinement in the horizontal position is essential, the patient should always have a good firm bed, in which he cannot sink. For this purpose, nothing is better than a well stuffed, double-quilted, hair mattress. When such a bed cannot be obtained, and the ordinary mattress is soft and yielding, a wooden board may be placed beneath it. Essentials of Treatment.—The great object in treatment is, firstly, to secure accurate apposition of the fragments, and secondly, to inaintain a condition of rest and fixation until such time as repair is concluded. The limb should be comfortably and efficiently steadied, and all movement prevented. In order to ensure this, the principle of fixing the joint above and below the point of fracture is well worthy of consideration, since it is obvious that all muscles which pass over a joint, must influence it whenever they are called into action. Moreover, if the patient having any liberty attempts_ some little exertion, he is apt to fling the muscles into action ; in endeavouring to keep the injured limb quiet, he renders the jomts in the vicinity rigid, and, in fact, may entail movement at the seat of fracture. Hence, in fractures of the leg and thigh, forearm and humerus. It IS advisable—in the case of restless patients, at least—to fix the ankle, knee, and hip joints, or the wrist, elbow, and shoulder joints, as the case may require. The long splint for the lower limb, and the rectangular splint, with shoulder piece, for the upper, fulfil this purpose admirably. In all cases of fracture it is of importance to ascertain whether there be any nerve injury, and to watch for this during the subsequent progress of the case ; since it sometimes happens that the newly formed callus may cause injurious pressure. For the first few days after treatment a daily inspection is required. Any pain or dis- comfort calls for examination, and the condition of the circulation must always be ascertained. A slight rise of temperature on the second or third day, even in simple fracture, is to be expected.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 134 Prognosis.—The prognosis will depend largely on the nature and site of the break, and the habits, age, and circumstances of the patient. Fractures in the vicinity of joints, and in old and rheumatic people, are very apt to be followed by stiffness; while in young people an early ossification of the epiphyses may arrest growth. Material for Splints.—Gooch's splint, consisting of strips of lath glued to a backing of wash-leather, canvas or strong paper, is supplied in rolls, and can readily be cut as desired. It is very serviceable in treating fractures of the long bones. Wire netting, perforated sheet zinc and tin, can also be fashioned without difficulty as required. Millboard and leather cut into shape and softened with water are extremely useful, and may be readily adapted ; this is also the case with the more e.xpensive poroplastic, which consists of felt, impregnated vrith resin. Strips of tin, shavings, cardboard, corrugated paper, hanks of lint, and bandages, may also be incorporated with plaster of Paris, and other stiffening agents, as will afterwards be described in discussing fixed forms of apparatus. Splints require careful padding, and this padding should be soft, elastic, and somewhat resilient, so that it does not cake. Raw wool, washed as it comes from the fleece, oakum, and lint, are rather better than cotton-wadding. Carefiil adjustment, so that hollows are filled up, bony points guarded, and equal support and pressure exercised, should be attained. If possible, a dependant position of the fractured limb is to be avoided, since it favours oedema; where the limb must hang more or less, a well applied bandage will largely obviate the difficulty. Passive Motion to Obviate StifQiess.—Fractures which im- plicate joints are often associated with synovitis, stiffness, and adhesions. In order to obviate this, many surgeons hold that it is good practice to begin early passive motion. In the case of the elbow and wrist, they remove the retentive apparatus about the seventh or tenth day, and gently move the joint, while with one hand they steady and secure the fragments in position. The splints are re-applied perhaps with the joint at a different angle, and passive motion continued with increasing frequency. Union is demonstrated when, after the lapse of time necessary for repair, there is no movement at the seat of fracture. The surgeon fixes one extremity of the broken bone, and gives the other lateral, antero-posterior, and rotatory movements, and thus judges of bony continuity. In doubtful cases it is well to have these move- ments executed by an assistant, while the surgeon handles the fractured region. Non-union.—Besides imperfect coaptation of the fragments, con- tinuous unrest and disturbance of the fracture—as, for example, when a patient sits up in bed with a fractured femur, or uses his fingers and wrist with a broken humerus—are very apt to cause non-union. Besides these we must also bear in mind that various constitutional conditions (such as syphilis, scurvy, &c.) may also play a part. More stringent measures to secure absolute fixation are in such cases ren-135 ON FRACTURES. dered necessary. All splints should be removed, the limb should be washed, and a little rough manipulation during the process will prove beneficial, by causing a fresh effusion of formative lymph. A more efficient apparatus must now be applied. Should fibrous union and false joint eventually form, nothing short of breaking down or removal of the uniting medium in some way can do good, since no amount of mere rest will induce ossification of fully formed fibrous tissue. . , Treatment by Passive Venous Congestion is of great value. The method has also been used by Bier in the treatment of tuber- cular joints, &c., and is described on p. 198. As applied for the cure of ununited fracture, Nicoladini recommends an interrupted use of the elastic band, at intervals of from two to six days. He points out that the Esmarch bandage may lead to displacement of fragments in the forearm and leg, so that judicious circular padding may, under such circumstances, be substituted. The local accumulation of blood leads to a rapid formation of callus. " Greenstick Fracture" is the term applied to the bending which bones in children are prone to undergo in place of fracture. Treat- ment is that of fracture. During the forcible replacement the bone may give way completely. The collar-bone and forearm are most commonly affected. Dislocation versus Fracture.—It is convenient to consider dislocation along with fracture. The general characters of disloca- tion are fixation and distortion of the joint involved, due to a change in the relative position of the bones which form the articulation. Fractures, on the other hand, display abnormal mobility and distortion as regards the relation of certain parts of the bone to each other at the seat of injury. It is only when fractures occur in the vicinity of joints, more especially if of the nature of diastasis (epiphyseal detachment with no true crepitus), that there is difficulty in coming to a definite conclusion. By manipulation and support, we may restore the outline of a broken bone. Deformity again occurs when we remove the support. On the other hand, a disloca- tion is difficult to replace ; but, when once reduced, tends to maintain its position. Naturally, there are numerous exceptions to such generalisations, as when, for example, dislocation occurs at some shallow ligamentous joint presided over by powerful muscles, in which case, although reduction be easy, retention is even more difficult than in fracture. The sooner a dislocation is reduced, the better. This can in many instances be effected by rapid manipulation if one takes the patient unawares. Failing this, the administration of an anjEsthetic will remove all difficulty. The limb is then to be kept at rest, and after a suitable period of quiet, passive motion is carried out. B. Special Fractures—Upper Extremity. (l) Fracture of the Clavicle is an exceedingly common injury. The typical displacement of the shoulder downwards, inwards, andA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 136 forwards, occurs when the break lies at any point internal to the coraco-clavicular ligament. There is generally some irregularity at the seat of fracture, unless it lie between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, in which case locahsed tenderness on pressure, taken in conjunction with the history of the case and the condition of the limb, affords ground for a positive diagnosis. _ If the fracture lie external to the coraco-clavicular ligament, there is httle tendency to downward displacement; but forward rotation becomes gradually well marked, should suitable treatment not be adopted. Treatment.—Restore and retain the outer fragment. If the patient be confined to bed with a pillow between his shoulders, the weight of the limb no longer causes downward displacement, and the forward and inward distortion is remedied by the gravitation of the shoulders backwards, counterbalancing and exhausting the muscular action. Although satisfactory results may be obtained in this way, few people care to submit to such restriction and confine- ment, so that generally the patient is not treated in bed. Authori- ties diflfer as to the measures to be adopted for obtaining satisfactory union. The necessary indications are fulfilled by the following plans, which may be used and modified as circumstances indicate. Fracture of the left clavicle at the junction of its inner and middle thirds. (a.) First Method—by Pad and Triangular Handkerchiefs. Materials.—Two triangular handkerchiefs ; oblong pad of wadding • Domet roller; safety-pins. Treatment.—Pad a sling with wadding in such a way that one end of the sling is longer than the other ; thus the knot, when tied, will lie in front of or behind the sound armpit, as in P"ig. 82. The second sling is arranged as in Fig. 72, so that its base lies beyond the elbow. The surgeon should now flex the forearm, carry the hand to the opposite shoulder, and brace back the shoulders, so as to restore the outline of the broken bone. He now raises the dependant angle of the sling, and ties it round the neck (Fig. 82); in doing so, he can bring the elbow as far across the chest as is needful to maintain correct apposition. The apex of the sling is now carried behind the arm, and the three folds there secured by a pin. Finally the circular bandage (Fig. S3) binds the elbow to the side, and all is fixed by pins. The axillary pad acts as a fulcrum, and thus the shoulder is carried outwards, supported, and steadied; while the sling serves to remedy the downward and forward displacement. The pad is, however, seldom necessary, and as it may be overdone, is liable to cause oedema from pressure. {b.) Sayre's Method—by Plaster Sirips.—ln this plan the chief factor is support exercised on the elbow. Materials.—Two strips of strong adhesive plaster, 2% inches broad ; boracic lint, or antiseptic wool.A SURGICAL handbook: 138 Treatment.—Set the fracture. Fix a loop of the plaster (adhesive side out) around the middle third of the humerus by stitching, and carry it backwards around the trunk (Fig. 84). 1 his serves to pull the shoulder backwards, and is said to give a fixed point for the second strip. Interpose lint or wadding between the chest and limb, wherever they are in contact. Lay the second strip of plaster against the sound shoulder, and carry it obliquely across the back to the elbow, where a slit should be made to receive the olecranon, and then ascend over the forearm to the starting-point so as to support and draw forward the elbow (Fig. 85). The injured shoulder is thus left free and exposed. It may be inspected at any moment without disturbing the dressing. There is no pressure Fig. 86.—John Duncan's Method Fig. 87.—John Duncan's Method for for Fractured Clavicle—Initial Fractured Clavicle—Completion by Turn of the Bandage. Acting on the Elbow. exercised at the seat of fracture, a most important matter when the skin is at all injured, or a simple fracture threatens to become com- pound. Another method similar to that of Sayre, in which a bandage is employed, is seen in Figs. 86 and 87. \c.) Use of Padded Axillary Handkerchiefs.—In fractures beyond the coraco-clavicular ligament and in others which are not attended with marked forward displacement, or where the patient is rather m- tractable, the shoulder may be braced back by means of two padded axillary handkerchiefs (Fig. 88). The presence of knots bclund may be obviated by interlacing the ends and tying m front (Fig. 89).ON FRACTURES. 139 Should the handkerchiefs threaten to mount over the neck and so relax, they m:iy be secured to a pelvic band by intermediate slips. Fig. 88.—Fracture of the Clavicle—Treatment by bracing back the shoulders with knotted handkerchiefs. The ends, A and £, to be tightened and tied in the middle line behind. This is a better plan than using a series of figure-of-eight turns. At the end of three weeks the arm may obtain a little freedom. Fig. 89.—Method of bracing back the shoulders with Interlaced Handkerchiefs. (2) Fractures of the Body of the Scapula are caused by extreme violence, and hence are commonly associated with other injuries of an even more serious character, such as fractures of the ribs.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 140 fofdtinosisr'^''" ""^"''^ °^ fragments, crepitus, and pain serve Treatment consists in retention by means of figure-of-eieht turns wuh a Domet roller. The rarer fractures which are met wfth at the neck are only diagnosed by excluding the possibility of other injuries. Where the hne of the fracture passes at the omo-hyoid notch, marked tenderness, with perhaps crepitus and abnormal mobility, is felt on manipulating the coracoid pro- cess. Where the glenoid alone is detached, a dislocation is sim- ulated ; but the contour of the shoulder is restored by merely supporting the elbow, and lost again on withdrawal of support- conditions which we do not ob- tain in dislocation. Treatment is similar to that of fracture of the clavicle; a light axillary pad, sling to support the elbow, and retention-bandage, 3 2 1 Fig. go. — Gooch-Splints shaped for Fracture of the Humerus—Nos. i and 2 are cut to avoid pressure on the internal condyle, 3 is used to command the rest of the arm as in Fig. 91. (3) Fractures of the Humerus may involve the extremities or the shaft. Shortening is one of the main features when the shaft Fig. 91.—Treatment of Fracture of the Humerus. gives way. Displacement is due to the direction of the force, character of the fractured surfaces, and the relation of the break to the deltoid and muscles attached to the region of the bicipitalON FRACTURES. 141 Groove. The musculo-spiral nerve may be injured, or involved at a fater date in a mass of callus, thus giving rise to wrist drop from extensor paralysis. Trea'nunt—General.—Reduce by means of extension and local manipulation. Well-padded Gooch-splints should be applied, cut so as to avoid pressure on the prominent internal condyle (Fig. 90). Secure with slip knots. Bandage the forearm to prevent oedema, and let it be carried in a sling, with the elbow free, so that the full effect of extension may be obtained from the weight of the lower fragment (Fig. 91). Many surgeons advocate with reason the appli- cation of a rectangular splint, which commands the elbow, wrist, and fingers, thus ensuring complete rest and fixation. Should this not be employed, the patient must be cautioned against using the fingers or hand in any way. (a.) Fractures at the upper end of the Humerus are rather more difBcult to diagnose than those which occur at a lower level. Fracture at the Surgical Neck is common. It is generally rather oblique. The lower fragment is pulled upwards and inwards to the axilla, while the upper remains unaltered. Deformity and crepitus are marked features. Separation of the upper Epiphysis from the shaft, a diastasis above the level of the surgical neck, is seen in young people up to twenty years of age. Here also the upper fragment remains in situ; the diaphysis is carried upwards and inwards, and its smooth rounded extremity lying in relation to the coracoid process gives rise to an appearance which exactly simulates sub-coracoid dislocation. Dislocation of the shoulder is, however, not frequent in youth ; the glenoid is felt to be occupied, there is no true crepitus; the outline of the shoulder is restored on manipulation only to become again abnormal on removal of support, and so the nature of the lesion is rendered evident. The results of such epiphyseal injuries must be kept in mind, as regards their effect on the growth of the limb and relation to the joint in causing future stiffness. In adults and old people, complete separation at the level of the anatomical neck sometimes takes place. It is generally associated with severe falls on the hand or shoulder, and is characterised by swelling and tenderness or pressure above the tuberosities. The length of the limb undergoes no appreciable change. By fixing the upper fragment and rotating the lower, deep-seated crepitus may be elicited. This symptom is of course absent if the fracture be impacted, and it is better to arrive at a conclusion by eliminating other injuries, and avoiding such rough means of establishing a diagnosis. Somewhat allied injuries—such as splitting of the head of the humerus, detachment of the great tuberosity, &c.—are recognised by noting any broadening of the head and by a careful comparison of both shoulders. Treatmenl.—All the above injuries may be treated on one plan. Set the fracture; lightly pad the axilla; apply an external rectangular »plint with a shoulder-cap, and bandage carefully from below up-142 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. y Fig. 92. — Shoulder-cap Shaped from Cardboard, a, and Moulded, b. wards as far as the elbow. Finally, secure the arm to the side with a second roller, which may also support the forearm, or use a sling for this purpose. Some authorities dispense with a sling, and (more especially in the case of fractures above the level of the surgical neck) are content to fix the parts by means of the bandage (Fig. 61). Others, again, lay stress on the use or non- use of the sling in fracture at the surgical neck. Where the fracture is very oblique, it is better not to support the elbow, but to let it hang, as in Fig. 91. In any case an external shoulder-cap and axillary-pad may be used (Figs. 92 and 93). It sometimes though rarely happens that in fracture of the surgical neck the upper fragment is tilted outwards, and cannot be replaced. Under such circumstances the lower fragment should be brought in line with the upper till union is obtained. Middeldorpf's splint secures this end conveniently (Fig. 94). Stromeyer's triangular pad makes a comfortable and steady splint for fractures of the humerus. The parts are carefully adjusted on the cushion, and secured to it by straps. (b.) Fractures of the Shaft are recognised with ease. Shortening is generally pro- nounced, the fracture being commonly oblique, with the fragments carried past each other. Gooch's splints, padded and cut away so as to avoid pressure on the bend of the elbow or internal con- dyle (Fig. 90), should be applied with slip-knots. The arm bandaged from the finger- tips to the bend of the elbow, is carried in a sling, leaving the elbow dependant, and a circular roller steadies all (Fig. 91). In the case of untrust- worthy patients, it is safer to use a rectangular splint in addition, so that the joints ^. ^. ,, ,• j • r . , J u 1 .u i- . Fig. Q-!.—Shoulder-cap applied in fracture above and below the fracture S 93 ^^^^ of the kumerus. may be commanded. This splint should also include the hand, since movement of the fingers has been known to cause non-union (Fig. 91). Fractures of the humerus immediately above the condyles, or which implicate the joint, must be carefully diagnosed from disloca-143 ON FRACTURES. tioDS. Should great swelling obscure the bony relations and render this difficult, one may either at once give an anaesthetic, and make sure of the nature of the injury, or wait for a couple of days till, by the use of eva- porating lotions and rest, the swelling disappears. In treatment, it is well to place both limbs in the ex- tended supine posi- tion. The normal limb is then the model. Fragments are now to be re- placed, and a pad of wool laid in the bend of the elbow. Fig. 94.—MiddeMorpf s Triangle (al"ter Esmarch). The limb is then to be flexed, and bent at an acute angle, and secured with figuie-of-eight turns and a sling, as in Fig. 96.144 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. cases where the joint is implicated, the surgeon retaining the fragments while he moves the forearm. This is done every third day, the limb being rebound at a different angle of flexion. After the sixteenth day, daily motion should be employed. Any subse- quent stiffness of the joint will disappear through time under the effects of massage and suitable exercise, such as weight-carrying, rowing, &c. Many surgeons prefer to treat the fractures implicating the elbow joint with rectangular and boat-shaped or gutter splints and do not adopt early passive motion. (4) Fracture of both Bones of the Forearm should be reduced by extension made from the hand, while some one fixes the arm above the elbow. Here also the supine position may be adopted with advantage during reduction. Anterior and posterior Gooch- splints should be cut and shaped on the normal arm. They should be broader than the limb. The posterior reaches from the elbow to the finger-tips; the anterior from the bend of the elbow to the palmar flexure, with a space cut out for the ball of the thumb. They should be well padded on their convex—z.e., wooden surface, so that they will not mould to the limb and narrow the interosseous space (Fig. 97). The surgeon now lays them in position, the wooden Fig. 97.-DiaKram of Section Fig. g8.—Gooch-splint cut away to avoid pres- of Forearm, showing pre- sure on the ball of the thumb, servation of interosseous space by means of suitable pads and board splints. face inwards, flexes the forearm to a right angle, and lays it midway between pronation and supination. He secures the splints with a couijle of slip-knots, makes sure that there is no injurious pressure exercised at the bend of the elbow or ball of the thumb (Fig. 9»). and bandages from below upwards. Due care is taken that the circulation is in no way impeded. Many surgeons prefer to hx the limb by means of a rectangular splint. , , , r ^i. Such treatment is suitable for all fractures of the bones of the forearm, with the exception of the olecranon, Colles fracture, and fracture between the insertions of the biceps and the pronator teres. This last requires the forearm placed in the attitude of flexion and supination, so as to bring the lower fragment in hne with the upper flexed and supinated fragment, which on account of its shortness we cannot hope to influence. • , • j „;,v.r h« This position, supination with flexion, may be mamtained either by145 ON FRACTURES. an ordinary rectangular splint," or else by a piece of straight splint laid across the angle formed by the forearm splints and the upper arm. Either of these appliances when secured in position will prevent pronation. The latter method will fix the elbow in fracture of the upper arm. (5) Fracture of the Olecranon, when transverse in chara-cter, with separation of the fragments, is readily distinguished. When the fracture is comminuted, more care is required in diagnosis. Marked tenderness on pressure, with broadening of the bone, is always suspicious, and when complicated with an injury to the bones, or with bruising of the skin, demands circumspect treatment, lest the fracture become compound. Where there is much displacement, the following method may be adopted :—Cut an oblong piece of plaster with horseshoe-shaped extremities, to which stitch two extension tapes. Fashion from Gooch material a splint to fit the antenor aspect of the limb, so that the angle of the upper and forearm may be well marked (Fig. 99, i). Bandage the forearm (Fig- 99. 2) ; lay the limb supine, and apply the plaster to the postenor aspect of the humerus, so that the upper fragment of the olecranon lies in the horseshoe, and carry the bandage up the arm, avoiding all pressure over the seat of fracture. Place the splint well padded, especially at the elbow, on the front of the limb, and bandage from below upwards, taking care not to include the exten- sion tapes. Finally, an elastic band may be secured to the tapes and fastened to the end of the splint (Fig. 100). In this way, gentle traction is maintained, the fragments are brought into apposition and good serviceable union secured. When the displacement is not marked, there is no necessity for the plaster and rubber extension • but a figure-of-eight bandage at the elbow will suffice. The patient 13 advised to have his hand as seldom as possible dependant; and Fig. gg.—Bandaging the Forearm in Fracture of the Olecranon, 2, prior to the application of the anterior splint, i. 100.—Fracture of the Ole- cranon treated with elastic extension. IC146 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. therefore, when at rest, he lays it on a table, and keeps it at a suitable level, so as to avoid oedema as far as possible. (6) Colles' Fracture of the Radius above the wrist is extremely common. A prominent feature, most useful in diagnosis, is afforded Fig. 101.—(«) Gordon's Splints for Colles' Fracture. (*) When applied the short | ■ fraS^nf ^^^^ FiB- "" -Setting a Colles' Fracture. by the examination and comparison of the styloid processes of the bones of the forearm on each side. When this fracture has taken place, the styloids are on the same level, whereas, in the nonnal limb that of the radius is always much more prolonged downwards. In the absence of this symptom and of all typical displacement, it is advisable to treat as CoUes' fracture the cases where marked tenderness on pressure exists, distinctly localised, just above the wrist, and associated with a history of a fall on the palm. Treatment.—TVe^ great essential of treatment is careful and accurate setting. FoUowing this, early passive motion is equally necessary. Special splints present no advantages. Reduction should be carried out at once, and with thoroughness, giving an anesthetic, if needful. By using powerful extension and counter- extension, and flexing the wrist over the knee in cases of jreat difficulty, the fragment is restored to. its normal position It sho^«s no great tendency to become agam displaced. ^/^dded Gooch splints are then applied. The dorsal reaches to the knuckles, the anterior to the palmar flexure {see Fig. 98). . The bandage may fnclude the fingers for the first week. After this date, da. y pass.ve motion of the fingers should be carried out, and every third d^y the splints may be removed, the fracture fixed, he wnst genUy moved. At the end of three weeks, remove all the sphnts.ON FRACTURES. 147 (7) Fractures of the Metacarpals are associated with displace- ment due to a drooping of the head of the bone. By placing a small pad of wool in the pahn of the hand, to prevent the finger- nails from irritating, and bandaging the closed fist over this, fixation is ensured, and union results in three weeks, ^^^len the first or fifth meta- carpal has given way, it is, perhaps, better to secure the extended ^'S- lo;^.—Anterior Gooch-splint used by s CoUes Fracture. It is cut away in front ■ some ia - .0 a.way in front of the lower fragment of the radius, and only reaches the middle of the palm. hand and fore-arm to an anterior padded Gooch-splint This method may also be used in all cases. Fractures of the Fhalaftges are treated by binding the injured fanger and its fellows, in the extended position, to a splint, wh ch ia prolonged up the forearm. Bennett's fracture of the base of the metacarpal of the thumb is by no means rare, according to Miles and Struthers, bein? com- monly taken for a sprain. It is caused by a force acting along the aas of the metacarpal, whereby the palmar projection of thi base of the metacarpals chipped off, and the bone is shortened as t passes on to the back of the trapezium. Reduction is effected by Thnr^h S '• / poroplastic splint applied over the thumb and wnst. Passive motion and massage may be employed after two or three weeks. cmpiuycuA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 148 CHAPTER XV. ON FRACTURES—Cw^z«M«^. Contents.—C. Special Fractures of the Lower Extremity—General Treatment—Prevention of Bed-Sores—Application of Extension— Treatment of Fracture (i) of the Femur—in Children—(2) of the Shaft of the Femur—(3) of the Patella—(4) of both Bones of the Leg—Various Forms of splint: Lateral, Dupuytren's, Macintyre's, &c.—General Remarks. C. Special Fractures—Lower Extremity. General Treatment.—A patient suffering from fracture of the lower limb requires treatment in bed. Prolonged recumbency can only be carried out on a suitable mattress such as has been already described (p. 133); it should be firm, even, and unyielding. Prevention of Bed-Sores.—The formation of bed-sores must be carefully prevented. They occur wherever pressure is kept up over bony prominences, such as the sacrum, heel, region of the buttocks, and popliteal space. Moisture is their chief causation—be it due to urine, sweat, discharge, or lotions. In old and weakly patients, extreme watchfulness can alone combat bed-sores. The patient must be kept absolutely dry. The skin exposed to pressure niay be strengthened by daily sponging with some hardening antiseptic lotion, such as spirits of wine and corrosive sublimate I -2000, after which it must be carefully dried. In women it is advisable in man)- cases to draw off the water with a carefully purified catheter three times a day, and in both sexes the perineum may be dusted with finely-powdered boric acid. Bed sores may also be treated with advantage with picric acid (see under "Burns," p. 34). Some difficulty is usually experienced at first in the use of the bed-pan. Where the patient is strong enough, he may assist by flexing the sound limb, and raising his pelvis with the aid of his arms and leg, while the sUpper is introduced from before. Mattresses are also to be had with a movable pelvic segment, which, on withdrawal, permits of the introduction of the bed-pan. Application of Extension—General Features common to149 ON FRACTURES. the tnajority of fractures of the lower extremity are found in the obliquity of the fracture, generally from above downwards and forwards; the shortening, and the tendency of the lower fragment to roll outwards. There is also seen drawing up of the heel. The position of extension is suitable during treatment in most cases, more especially since we can by a glance recognise to what extent eversion of the limb has been remedied. The internal edge of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the ball of the great toe, should always be seen to lie in the same vertical plane when the limb is extended. The application of extension is treated of in detail at p. 203. In the case of fractures, the plasters should stop short just below the seat of injury. We now proceed to apply the necessary splints, buckle the foot-piece to the extension-straps, secure the pulley to the foot of the bed, and put on the weights. From six to eight pounds is about enough for an adult. If spasm ceases and the limb is comfortable, there is sufficient weight. Next raise the foot of the bed on props, and the patient's body acts as the counter-extending force. The limb should be carefully measured every day; and whenever the limbs are of equal length, weight must be decreased. Take off weight also if there be pain in the joints below the fracture. Increase it, if there be starting pains at the site of injury. (I) Fractures of the Femur, like those of the humerus, may be considered according to the portion which they involve. Shortening is sometimes of little value as a diagnostic of fracture of the neck of the femur. This symptom is usually delayed, and may take a day or two to develop when the fracture is intracapsular. It is sometimes inappreciable, if the fracture be impacted. In the latter case, the history and presence of antero-posterior broadening, with flattening laterally, and tenderness of the trochanter major, enable one to come to a conclusion. Impaction should not be released in old people. An altered position of the trochanters is readily ascertained, as follows :— Lay the normal limb in the same position as its fellow. See that the pelvis is straight. Wlien there is any pelvic obliquity, the lines drawn from one anterior spine to the other, and from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis, do not intersect at right angles. Indicate the anterior superior spine and tip ol the trochanter major on each side with ink; then take a couple of strips of stout sheet- lead, as recommended by Chiene, and lay them across the body, joining the above points. If the trochanters occupy the same level on each side, the strips will be parallel. Should they have under- gone any change, the direction will be at once obvious, and a conclusion may be drawn as to the nature of the injury. For a similar purpose we may use Bryant's triangle. With the patient lying supine, indicate the anterior superior spine and the tip of the great trochanter. Join the points by a straight line. From the anterior superior spine drop a line vertically towards the ground, and fromA SURGICAL handbook: the tip of the great trochanter draw a Hne horizontally (in the atient's position) to meet the first line at right angles. The orizontals denote the amount of shortening if compared with similar figures on the normal side. Treatment and prognosis depend largely on the age and strength of the individual. In the case of old people, where the fracture is Fig. 105.—The Long Splint, showing the sheet, thoracic binder, and the perinseai band. frequently intracapsular, prognosis should always be very guarded An attempt at treatment should be made. It fails where the strength or condition of the patient cannot stand the demands of the confine-O.y FRACTURES. ment required. The chest should be examined ; and care as to the state of the circulation, and renal secretion, may save much initial trouble. The difficulty attending expectoration in bronchitis, the tendency to hypostatic congestion, and the embarrassment to breathing, swal- lowing, defecation, and micturition, which attend the dependant position of the patient's body, have to be combated, till there be some degree of tolerance to the new state of afTairs. The adminis- tration of digitalis, ammonia, and bark; the use of enemata, the catheter, and massage of the body will do much to improve the general condition, but in feeble old people we are content with a false joint and get them out of bed into a chair rather than court a dangerous attempt at bony union. (a.) First Method— The Long Splint with Extension.—In using the long splint with extension, the following articles are required :— Materials.—Extension-plaster and tapes ; three Domet bandages; a splint 4 inches broad, of suitable length, to extend from the axilla to beyond the foot, and a sheet; safety-pins; a broad Domet roller for the chest; a foot-piece for the long splint: fine wadding; bed props; weights, cord, and pulley. Apply the extension - plaster as described (Chap, xxi.) Roll the splint in the sheet or tablecloth, leaving enough free to envelop the limb: lay it alongside the patient, and slip it under the leg as in Fig. 105. The loose end is then folded over; the weight for extension adjusted, and the bony prominences being suitably padded, the sheet may be secured to the splint with pins (Fig. 106). The thoracic binder is now passed under the patient (Fig. 105) and pinned. Finally, raise the foot of the bed as in Fig. 107. {b.) Second Method—The Long Splint with Perinaal Band.—It sometimes happens, owing to the form of the bed or other circum- stances, that extension with weight and pulley cannot be carried out. We may then employ the long splint with the perinaeal band. With this a couple of large handkerchiefs folded en cravatce takes the Fig. 106.—-The Long Splint used with extension.152 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. place of the extension apparatus. The splint and sheet are laid in position as formerly. The surgeon next secures one handkerchief to the foot (Fig. 105), and passes the other round the perinaeum, so Fig. 107.—Extension by Weight and Pulley. that the two ends may be through the holes in the top of the splint. He next secures the foot to the end of the splint, and now pushing it downwards, firmly with his hand, thus makes extension at the foot, while he maintains counter-extension from the perinaeum by tying the top handkerchief (Fig. 108). Obviously before long Fig. 108.—The Long Splint, showing how it must be pushed down in order to obtain extension before securing the perinasal band at the upper end. the tension relaxes as the handkerchiefs give. The perinaeum is apt to suffer and become excoriated: hence, although good results have been obtained with the long splint and perinaeal band, the weight and pulley method is far superior. Where with the tilted position of the bed, the patient is uncomfortable, an attempt may be made, by means of a pelvic or thoracic girdle fixing the patient to the bed, to secure counter-extension. Union may be looked for at the end of ten or twelve weeks. Should the patient's constitution resent this treatment, he must be got out of bed into a chair, and only fibrous union be expected. (2) Fractures of the Shaft of the Femur are also treated with the long splint and extension. They require as well lateral local splints of well-padded Gooch or pasteboard, secured with slip-knots. These splints should not encroach on the patella or groin. In the case of fractures immediately below the trochanter153 ON FRACTURES. minor or above the knee, some bringing the fragments into line; Fig. Tog.—Double Long Splint moreover, well suited for restless adults IT Fig. no.—Vertical Extension for Fractured Femur in Children. difficulty may be experienced in but this is overcome by the use of chloroform, and once re- duction is effected and ex- tension put on, retention is secured. When com- mand of the shorter flexed fragment cannot be ob- tained, the inclined plane, with or without exten- sion, is indicated. (f.) Fracture of the Femur in Children.—It is noteworthy, as stated before, that in children fractures of the femur are more frequently met with than fractures of the leg- bones; they are usually more or less transverse. Children are not easily kept quiet or dry, and therefore treatment is complicated by two con- ditions, imrest and mois- ture. We meet these difficulties by using the double long splint, or vertical extension (Figs. 109 and 110). The double long splint is, and in cases of ununited fracture. It may be used with or without exten- sion. (3) Fractures of the Patella are in most respects comparable with fractures of the ole- cranon. In transverse fractures, there is marked separation of the frag- ments. The upper one is specially displaced by the action of the power- ful quadriceps extensor, and in addition by the filling of the synovial pouch of the joint with exudations and blood- clot. At a later date,A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 154 the ligamentum patellse also begins to contract and aid in the separa- tion of the lower fragment. (a.) First Method—by Weight and Pulley. Materials.—posterior splint with a foot-piece—a Macintyre—will suit; Domet bandages; a piece of diachylon-plaster, large enough to cover the anterior and lateral aspect of the thigh, and cut away in a horse-shoe form so as to fit the patellar region (to the horns of the shoe extension-tapes should be fixed); weight and pulley; wire cradle. Treatment.—Bandage the foot and leg, apply the plaster, and carry the bandage up over it, excluding the knee and extension-tapes. Lay the limb extended on the posterior splint, and incorporate both with a bandage. Swing the limb on the cradle, raising the foot. Fig. III.—Fracture of Patella treated by elastic extension on the inclined plane. and put on the weight and pulley. Should the joint be very tense, careful aspirations may prove beneficial. An ice-bag, or elastic pressure exercised through the medium of a mass of cotton-wool, will also aid in preventing effusion; but, as a rule, this is not required when the case is seen early. Fig. 112.—Fracture of the Patella, treated by the application of two pieces of plaster with elastic bands attached, so that both fragments of the bone are approximated and acted on. The bandage which secures the plaster has not been represented. (h.) Second Method—by Elastic Tubing.—In place of using the weight and pulley, some surgeons attach the two extremities of aON FRACTURES. I5S loop of strong elastic tubing to the extension-tapes, and passing this over the foot-piece, keep up traction (Fig. iii). Others prefer the apparatus (Fig. 112) where both fragments are acted on by elastic force. An attempt should always be made to secure osseous union. Moreover, since we usually only succeed in getting a short liga- mentous uniting medium by the methods above described, and since this is extremely liable to stretch to an almost unlimited extent, if subjected to early strain, it follows that the longer the knee can be kept stiff in the position of extension, the better for the patient. Hence, the limb may be put up in starch at the end of eight or ten weeks. In sixteen weeks gradual attempts may be made to get a little flexion, but nine or twelve months should elapse before full flexion is allowed. The operation of cutting down upon and wiring Fig. 113.—Fan-shaped Plaster for extension. the fragments in order to obtain osseous union need not be dis- cussed here. Stellate and longitudinal fractures are not so trouble- some, and may be treated with a simple figure-of-eight bandage and posterior spUnt. (4) Fracture of both Bones of the Leg.—When both bones of the leg are broken, there is usually marked displacement. This is not so when one alone gives way, as then the other acts as a splint. The customary displacement of shortening and rotation of the lower fragment outwards, may be met by careful setting and by extension with weight and pulley. When the break is very low down, so that It 13 somewhat difficult to get a grasp of the lower fragment, an attempt may be made by incorporating fan-shaped plasters (Fig. 113), with a bandage covering in the foot and ankle. [a.) First Method—In the Extended Position.—Yox all fractures of the leg, there is no apparatus of such universal application as the Box splint. Materials.—Ty/o splints of light wood, % inch thick, 4 inches broad and long enough to extend from above the knee to a hand's-breadth Wow the sole. Three towels; one large, and two somewhat smaller blip knots; bandage; wadding.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 156 Treatment.—Roll the splints in the two ends of the largest towel, and, fitting them on the sound limb, leave sufficient space for it between the splints. Raise the broken leg, and set the fracture, sUp the splints underneath the limb; raise the two sides of the box, and retain them in position with the hands. It is now an easy matter to insert pads where necessary, especially above the malleoli, under the tendo Achillis and near the knee. The two smaller towels are next folded so as to equal in length rather more than half the anterior aspect of the leg. They are then laid over the shin-bone, and all is secured by the three slip-knots (Figs. 114 and 115). The foot is bandaged, and the figure-of-eight turna Fig. —The Box-splint, showing arrangement of Anterior and Lateral Pads. around the ankle ensure that the foot is at right angles. Finally, when necessary, the extension is adjusted. With the box-splint one can at once see whether the foot is at right angles or not, and to what extent rotation outwards exists. The tendency of the heel to pass backwards can be largely avoided by the use of a substantial ring-pad. Second Method—In the Flexed Position.—Many surgeons believe that the position of flexion is one in which a "broken leg may be treated "S-—The Box-splint applied. with most advantage. The principle of relaxing the muscles to pre- vent spasm is an old and good one, but the merits of extension are greater. One may, however, easily conceive cases and circum- stances where the flexion method is preferable. By flexing the legON FRACTURES. 157 and swinging it in a cradle, or laying it on its outer side, the ham- strings and gastrocnemius are relaxed, and the heel is kept at rest. Various Forms of Splints.—In ordinary fractures, lateral splints of wood or pasteboard are used. They should be shaped to fit the limb (for pasteboard, see Chap. XX.) If of wood they may be cut short at the level of the in- step ; the outer should have a foot-piece; if made of pasteboard, both had better be provided also with a sole plate. Wooden splints should be per- forated at the malleoli, to avoid pressure. The foot-piece of the external splint should be well padded to- Fig. 116.-Application of Lateral Splints-Limb wards the toes. After flexed and laid on its outer side. setting the fracture, the splints are buckled or bandaged on, and the limb, laid on its outer side, is secured by slip-knots to a pillow (Fig. 116). In this way pointing of the toes is readily prevented, but eversion of the foot cannot be so readily counteracted. If, however, two lateral splints of wood or pasteboard, each with a foot-piece, be fitted on, and the leg be now suspended from a Salter's cradle (Fig. 117), one can easily see if eversion is thoroughly corrected or not. In cases where back- ward displacement of the heel does not readily yield with the ordinary box-splint, the swinging position may also be taken advantage of. Splints for Pott's Frac- ture.—Special splints are sometimes used in the treatment of Pott's frac- ture and allied conditions, although as a rule such injuries are equally amen- able to the box-splint, (a.) Dupuytren's splint is applied so as to counteract eversion and fix the foot. Although originally plain, as now often modified, it is a long splint in miniature (Fig. 118, A), and is applied with the aid of a bandage, slip-knot, and towel. Fold the towel, lay it against the inner aspect of the splint, and fold up theA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. surplus (as in Fig. 11S, A) to form a pad. Split the ends of the band- age and fasten them through the two holes at the end of the splint; bring it down over the towel, and secure all with shp-knots (Fig. Ii8, A). The splint is now mounted. Set the fracture. Lay the splint along the inner aspect of the leg. Secure it to the leg below the knee with a slip-knot, and then proceed to incorporate splint and limb by four or five figure-of-eight turns (Fig. ii8, B). By so doing, the foot is also fixed at right angles. As the bandage now travels Fig. ii8.—Dupuytren's Splint—A, Ready for use ; B, Fixation to Limb; C, Method of producing Inversion of the Foot. from over the outer aspect of the foot, it should be carried between the forks of the splint, and from that should pass over the firont of the ankle round to the back, embracing the splint." Complete the new series of figure-of-eight turns, by once more reaching the front of the ankle, and descend over the fifth metatarsal to the forks. By this manoeuvre, the foot is forcibly inverted, and the displacement caused by the accident remedied (Fig. ii8, C). The splint should be firmly secured before the latter figure-of-eight turns are made, so that the heel is well fixed against the splint, which must on no account be allowed to slip towards the instep. In correcting eversion, the loops of bandage should act through the medium of the fifth metatarsal. Finally, the leg is laid on its outer side on a pillow. ' (b.) In cases of Pott's fracture with marked tendency to backward displacement of the heel, an anterior horse-shoe splint has been used. It should be well padded to avoid pressure effects. Its application is illustrated by Fig. 119, where the tip of the heel is seen to rest in the handkerchief. Macintyre Splint is extremely useftil in all severe injuries of the foot, leg, and lower part of the thigh. It consists of a trough of sheet iron for the thigh, and one for the leg, both being hinged * N.B.—The turns round the ankle should be kept low, so as not to press on the seat of fracture or resist the effect produced by the firm inversion of the foot.ON FRACTURES. iS9 together, and kept at any required angle by means of a screw. A foot-piece, which may not only be fixed at any angle to the leg-trough. bandage ; E, Supporting the heel with a handkerchief. but which—working in slots—may be slid for a certain distance up and down it, is an important part of the whole. The foot-piece has a Fig. I20.—The Macintyre Splint. concave ending, and is provided with a button for the purpose of giving attachment to a stocking or bandage, which draws forward the heel (Fig. 120).A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. i6o Before the splint is applied, the distance of the foot-piece to the knee-bend must be accommodated to the length of the patient's leg, and the necessary angle of the thigh- and knee-parts determined upon. Folded linen sheets, cotton wool, or other padding, must be laid on the trough, and the hollow between the lower end of the leg- trough, and the foot-piece filled up by transverse pieces of bandage. When the leg has been laid upon the splint, the surgeon begins by fixing the foot with turns of bandage, ensuring comfort by plentiful padding on the dorsum, below the heel, and under the sole of the foot. Then, with a roUer-bandage, he fixes the limb to the leg- and thigh-troughs. Some make the patient wear a sock, to the toe of which a tape is fastened ; this being brought over the concave end of the foot-piece is fixed to the button before noticed. General Remarks.—Fractures of the leg are usually united in from four to six weeks. Prior to this period they may be, however, put up in starch or plaster of Paris, and the patient may leave hospital on crutches. Or, again, the ambulant method (p. 278) may be used from the beginning of treatment. Some cedema itching, muscular and joint stiffness are frequently met with after fracture of the bones of the leg, and may be ver)' persistent. There can be no doubt that the careful reduction of the injury and the early use of massage (p. 187) tend to render such complications less, and, more- over, restore the limb sooner to a normal state. In the same maimer the ambulant treatment tends to a more early use of the limb. Before the days of extension, fractures of the femur were frequently treated in the flexed position. Such forms of apparatus as Earle's bed were made use of when there was marked displacement, as occurs after fracture below the lesser trochanter or above the condyles. Bj' means of chloroform and extension, we now get over the muscular spasm, nor is it necessary to divide the tendo Achillis, as has been sometimes recommended to meet the last-mentioned instance. When patients have to travel a distance, and a temporary dressing is made use of, lashing the flexed limbs together to a pillow is often advantageous. CHAPTER XVI. ON FRACTURES—C(7«^z«»W. Contents—D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis.—(i) Spinal In- juries—Their Gravity—Immediate Treatment—Attendant Dangers— (2) Broken Ribs—(3) Fractures of the Pelvis—Possible Complications. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones.—(i) Scalp Wounds — (a.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures—"Concussion" and "Compression''—(*.) Fractures of the Baseof theSkull—(2) Frac- tures of the Facial Bones—(<r.) of the Nasal Bones—of the Upper Jaw—(c.) of the Lower Jaw—Use of Antiseptics. D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis, (i) Spinal injiiries are extremely grave, as the associated con- cussion, haemorrhage, or sprain, may lead to most serious inflam- matory changes in the cord.i6i ON FRACTURES. Fractures are of common occurrence, and are usually recognised by local irregularity and tenderness of tlie spine, and the sudden development of motor symptoms. The higher up in the spinal coiumn the fracture or dislocation lies—thus affecting the cord—the greater will be the resulting paralysis; and consequently respiration may be carried on by the diaphragm alone, all the other nerves save the phrenic being inactive. Immediate Treatment.—In most cases a plaster jacket should be applied in the horizontal position (see Chap. xxii.). In extreme cases the patient should be laid at once on a water-bed, and the site of the lesion, together with the condition of the bladder and rectum, ascertained. Defective innervation of the parts supplied beyond the seat of the lesion predisposes to trophic changes, bed-sores, and inflammations. The greatest care must be exercised in drawing off the urine, which should be done at regular intervals with a disin- fected catheter. The overflow of an over-distended bladder must not be taken for normal micturition. Attendant Dangers.—The patient is specially liable to pulmonary troubles. Hypostatic congestion, bronchitis, and inflammation may prove speedily fatal, for he may have lost the power of coughing. Death from septic cystitis and surgical kidney is common, hence the value of urinary antiseptics. At points of pressure bed-sores arise; hence the use of cages to protect the toes, and the necessity for shifting the position daily to some slight extent, and keeping the patient dry (p. 148). Carefiil investigadon and records should be made at intervals of the extent and nature of the paralysis—sensory or motor, &c., the condition of the various reflexes, and the existence or development of hyperssthetic areas or zones. Prognosis.—The slightest return of motor power within the first six months, any improvement in the cystitis which is so generally met with, or a more healthy condition and healing of the bed-sores, are favourable prognostics. (2) Broken Ribs arise mostly from blows and squeezes, but may also be caused by violent muscular action on the part of the patient himself, as, for example, in coughing. The patient endeavours to keep the part at rest, and so abstains from taking a long breath, any attempt at which causes severe local pain. If the pleura be wounded, he would fain cough, but dare not do so. If the fragments have injured the lung, he may expectorate blood. On manipulation, local tenderness is manifest, and crepitus may sometimes be madf out; but too active endeavours to elicit this should not he made. The stethoscope may help; as a rule, the methods referred to on p. 133 are most serviceable; and the localised pain on pressing the rib at a distance from the injury indicates the site of fracture. Where fracture exists, a species of plaster cuirass may be formed out of overlapping .strips running from spine to sternum of the whole affected side. In doubtful cases it is always well to give support, and a Domet-roller, disposed in a series of sloping figure- of-eight turns around the thorax, will do what is necessary. 11A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. For great dyspnoea after thoracic injuries, bleeding has been used with benefit. (3) Fractures of the Pelvis are common, as the result of severe crushes. The patient frequently sufiTers from shock. Possible Complicatio7is.—The injury is of moment from the liabihty to damage of the pelvic organs, and hence the question must be asked: Has the patient made water or not? If he has not, a duly purified, soft rubber catheter, or failing that, a gum elastic instrument should be passed and the water drawn off". If any difficulty be met with and blood appear in the urine, the propriety of tying in the catheter may be discussed. This should certainly be done, if on inserting the finger into the rectum any irregularity of the pubic arch denoting fracture be felt. When the urethra has been injured by fracture of the pelvis, the rupture is in the membranous urethra posterior to the triangular ligament, and if extravasation of urine occurs, it will be intra-pelvic, perhaps unrecognised, and liable to do more damage than the familiar extravasation into the perinjeum and scrotum, associated with rupture anterior to the ligament. If one cannot pass an instrument, it is probably better, meanwhile, to aspirate the bladder, and at the earUest possible opportunity put the patient in the hthotomy position, incise longitudinally, and, if possible, suture the ruptured channel, leaving in a tube to drain the bladder, posterior to the site of injury. Prognosis.—If the bladder and urethra have escaped, fracture of the pelvis does not generally give rise to much anxiety. Examina- tion from the rectum and along the crests of the iliac bones will reveal the line of the lesion. Rest in bed and fixation by a roller- bandage and pillows serve as treatment. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones. All head injuries require consideration and care. From lack of attention grave results may follow the simplest lesions, and from want of observation important data may be missed. Wher- ever the skin is broken, the most stringent andseptic precautions should be enjoined. They are absolutely essential when the bone is in any way injured. Should sepsis occur, there is practically no limit to the ulterior consequences, and these may vary from a local redness to a general meningitis. (a.) Scalp wounds are to be treated on general principles. Owing to the great vascularity, every shred of tissue that is not killed outright should be preserved. The hair should be shaved off, and eveiything most rigorously cleansed with antiseptics. By means of acupressure (p. 54) a more rapid arrest of bleeding may sometimes be obtained than by the use of ligatures. (*.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures always require trephining—probably all simple depressed fractures should be elevated or treated in the same way. An exception may be made vidth young children, where, unless the symptoms are rapidlyOA' FRACTURES. progressive and life is threatened, it is legitimate to delay, as the younc; and elastic calvarium usually rises. (f.) Concussion and Compression.—Whenever, as the result of a blow or fall, the patient has become unconscious, a guarded prognosis should be given. Even if the patient have rapidly regained his senses, he requires exceeding care. The unconscious condition produced suddenly by an injury to the head is known as concussion. The patient in this state lies faint and listless, with a weak irregular pulse, and he can be often partially aroused. The breathing is shallow and weak. The pupils react to light and vary as to size. Recovery takes place gradually, and commencing reaction is frequently associated with nausea and vomiting. Treatment. — Keep the patient warm and quiet. He must always be carefully watched, and stimulants should be avoided. Concussion may, however, go on to compression, or there may be an interval between the two. The patient now becomes gradually insensible, and cannot be roused at all. He sinks into a stupor and lies breathing heavily, with loud, stertorous, slow respirations. His pulse is slow and dragging; the sphincters are paralysed ; urine accumulates; the eyes no longer react to light; the pupils ar9 frequently dilated; the condition deepens, and he dies comatose. Such a state of affairs calls for immediate action. An attempt must be made to remove the compressing agent—be it bone, blood, or inflammatory product. In cases where after a simple injury, with, it may be, only slight concussion, symptoms of compression develop, any delay in treatment may be fatal. Such cases are often due to rupture of the meningeal artery, and are characterised by the rapid onset of compression, associated with dilated pupil on the side of he haemorrhage, and general paralysis on the other side of the face and body. Only immediate trephining can then save life. The condition of the pulse may mislead. In some instances it is rapid instead of slow and dragging. In all cases, absolute quiet, cold to the head, and counter-irritation (by means of crolon oil purgation) b to be recommended, as well as bleeding behind the ears. {d. ) Fractures of the Base of the SkuU are characterised by the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the ear, or by bleeding from the ears, mouth, and nose, conjunctival ecchymosis, and occasionally by facial paralysis. Lumbar puncture has been used in diagnosis In addition to general treatment, an attempt should always be made to combat septic meningitis by gently syringing the ear with i-20 carbolic, du3ting in iodoform, and plugging with antiseptic wool. (2) Fractures of the Facial Bones present the peculiarity that they are frequently compound from involvement of the mucous inembrane of adjacent cavities. However, they are not more dangerous on that account, since here sepsis is not so obnoxious because of the great vascularity of the parts and because of theA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 164 free drainage that is afforded when the mucous surface as well as the skin is wounded. The amount of damage is often veiled by swelling, which generally comes on with much rapidity; hence the sooner the patient is seen and his injuries recognised and treated, the better. Diagnosis is favoured by the examination which can be made from the nasal and oral cavities, as well as by external manipulation. [a.) Fracture of the Nasal Bones results from great violence. The fragments must be raised from within by a probe, and the septum restored if need be with dressing forceps, as nasal plugs do no good. The patient must be cautioned not to finger the parts, nor to blow his nose violently for a week. If retention is difficult, it is better to give an anassthetic, and skewer the elevated broken bridge with a stout steel pin. (b.) Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—When the upper jaw is broken, the alveolar margin is usually interfered with, and loose teeth require attention. None should be removed unless they are broken, or their alveoli hopelessly destroyed. Otherwise, they should be replaced, the bone modelled into shape, and the lower jaw bound to the upper by means of a split bandage (Fig. 121); the Fig. 121.—A, Four-tailed Bandage for Fracture of the Jaws; X, Aperture for the Chin. opposing teeth act as spHnts. The patient is enjoined absolute quiet, and fed with slops by means of a tube carried from the mouth behind the last molar, or through a dental gap, or from the nose. As a general rule, injuries of the face implicating the malar bone and jaw are severe and complicated with laceration of the soft parts, but are generally hopeful. Every fragment should be retained and sutured, coagula removed, the parts purified, dusted with iodoform, and treated as special circumstances require. _ (c ) Fracture of the Lower Jaw.—When a patient has sustained a violent blow on the lower jaw, and he is bleeding from the gums with loosening of teeth, care should be taken not to overlook theDISLOCATIONS, SPHAINS, AND BRUISES. 165 possibility of fracture. It is well then to grasp and steady one half of the iaw firmly, and to make forcible movement of the other halt in various directions, as it sometimes happens that the fragments interlock, and there is no evident displacement. When fracture is diacxnosed or well marked, and the fragments readily retained a spHt handkerchief may be applied over a gutta-percha or paste- board chin-cap. After-treatment is similar to that in fracture of the upper iaw. In more difficult cases, interdental gutta-percha or ^-ulcanite splints, with aperture for feeding, can be apphed, with the occasional aid of the dentist. Immediate wiring of the fragments is carried out with much success. Use of Antiseptics.—l-D. all fractures of the facial bones where mucous cavities are involved, marked benefit attends the use ot antiseptic washes. Warm water, having Condy's fluid or bone acid added to it, may be used with a syphon, and frequent irrigation in this fashion gives the patient much comfort and prevents toetor. A continuous purulent discharge denotes a local necrosis of bone, which requires removal as soon as it is loose. CHAPTER XVII. DISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AND BRUISES. Contents.—Diagnosis and General Treatment—Special Treatment for Dislocation of the Clavicle—Shoulder—Lower Jaw—Elbow— Wrist-joint —Thumb—Hip-joint — Patella — Knee, Ankle, or Astragalus-Cautions necessary in old-standing Cases—Treatment of Sprains and Bruises. Dislocations—Diagnosis.—It is obvious that the methods adopted to discover the existence of fracture are equally serviceable in the case of dislocation. As fractures are characterised by preternatural mobility at a part of a bone which is normally rigid, so disloca- tions show preternatural fixation of a movable joint, along with an abnormal relation of. certain associated bony structures. Naturally, the exceptions to this generalisation are many; and—more especially when we deal with impacted fractures in the vicinity of joints—there is sometimes a degree of doubt, only to be cleared away by careful observation. General Treatment.—The behaviour of dislocations after reduction varies much. Where the adjacent bone-surfaces embrace each other closely, or are held in apposition by strong muscles or ligaments which remain intact, the tendency to redisplacement is not well marked ; whereas, if the opposing surfaces be small and ihallow, and the uniting ligaments be greatly destroyed, the slightest motion will bring about the dislocation afresh. This is well seen ifwe compare a dislocation of the shoulder or hip, with one of the clavicle or head of the radius. In reducing the dislocation, we may either by gradually increased and prolonged force weary out the resisting muscular structures, and so effect a cure; or, again, by means of manipulations which tend to relax the tense muscles.'and by making use of the dislocated bone as a lever, we may cause the escaped articular end to retraverse the path it took in leaving iU companion-bone, and so regain its normal position. Subsequent treatment consists in retaining the bones in position till the capsule heals, and using passive motion at an early date in order to obviate the formation of adhesions. (1) Dislocations of the Clavicle occur at either end. They are usually replaced with ease, but retained with difficulty; they are amenable to treatment similar to that used in fracture of the collar- bone. Attempts should also be made by means of a pad to retain the displaced surface; for this purpose elastic bands, strapping, or a hernia truss have been recommended. In dislocation at the acromial end, the arm should be supported in a sling at a right angle, and the separated surfaces kept in position by a few turns of elastic webbing, running round the shoulder and elbow. The elastic is kept from slipping by a thoracic belt. The usefulness of the limb is not greatly impaired even where a good result as regards appearance is not obtained. (2) Dislocation of the Shoulder may be made out from several features. The patient generally supports his semiflexed arm mid- way between pronation and supination. The elbow is tilted from the side. The shoulder is flattened—not rounded, as on the normal side, and the level of the axillary border is lowered. If a measuring-tape be carried around the circumference of the axilla over the clavicle and acromion, it will be found that in dislocation there is an increase of from one to two inches, as compared with the opposite side. If the hand be lifted to the top of the opposite shoulder and held there, it will be found that no force can bring the elbow against the chest-wall. This test may fail in old-standing cases. The great proof of dislocation, however, is afforded by the change in the relative position of the coracoid process, the acromion, and the great tuberosity of the humerus. The first two must be identified; the last should be about an inch below, and outside the former two. If the articular cavity be empty, on rotating the elbow the head of the bone will be found anterior, inferior, or posterior to its normal site. The varied forms of dislocation here are recognised more by direct observation as to the position of the displaced head. There is not much to be gained by measurements as to the length 01 the limb. Reduction—First Method—by Heel in Axilla.—Fix the shoulder- girdle and use extension, with the heel in the axilla. Lay the patient on his back on a mattress or couch (Fig. 122). Take a few turns with a wetted bandage just above the elbow ; over this slip a clove-hitch on a lac of worsted, and fix it with a lew moreDISLOCATIONS, ^ir^Aiiw^, ^i^^ .w/ turns of the bandage. The surgeon now removes his boot and places h,s heel in the axilla, fixing the border of the scapula v^'th it flex^ the patient's arm, and makes steady traction, occasionally slackening Fig. 122.—Reduction of Dislocation by Heel in the Axilla. off. When reduction is effected, he should manipulate the joint to make sure of his success. Good results are also gained by extending Fig. H3.—Kocher's Method—First Part, External Rotation of Humerus. the limb, and carrying it directly upwards. A similar mode is that in which the surgeon stands behind the semi-recumbent patient.1 \JU Fig. 124.—Kocher's Method—Third Part, the arm having been raised forwards, Internal Rotation is rapidly executed.* fixes the shoulder girdle with one foot, and raises the arm above the patient's head. Second or "■Manipulation" Method of Kocher.—Th^ so-called "manijuilation" method of Kocher is performed by flexing the fore- arm to a right angle, and |)ressingtheelbo\v to the side. External rotation of the hum- erus is then performed by pulling the hand outwards (Fig. 123). This movement must be carried out slowly and gently, and may occupy five minutes. The limb is now rap- idly elevated directly forwards, and then rotated inwards, and the displaced bone slips easily into its socket. In every case where this is difficult, chloro- form may be given. Third or Maniptt- latiofi by Abduction and Rotation Inwards is strongly recom- mended by A. G. Miller, who describes it as follows:—" The patient being seated on a chair, the surgeon stands at the injured side (say the right) and takes the arm in both hands ; one (the left) being above the elbow, the other (right) above the wrist, the arm being bent to an L at the elbow. An assistant stands at the patient's other side and steadies the scapula with both hands. "The surgeon then gently and slowly elevates the arm, making trac- tion outwards from the body, at the same time assuring the patient that what he is doing will not be very painful, and that it is not the actual reduction but merely a preliminary. If the patient should resist, then the surgeon may wait for a while or administer an anEesthelic. "When the patient has ceased to resist, the arm will come towards the surgeon; then is the time to rotate the humerus by dropping the hand, and the head of the humerus will glide into position." Subsequent Treatment.—Rest the joint by means of supporting the elbow in a sling, and bind the hmb to the side. Begin gentle passive motion at the end of ten days. (3) Dislocations of the Elbow are most readily diagnosed by finding the condyles of the humerus, noting the relation of the head of the radius to the end of the olecranon condyles, carefully explor- ing the bend of the elbow, and noting to what extent movement is interfered with. In the common backward displacement of both * The humerus has been represented as slightly abducted. It should have been elevated directly forwards.DISLULAllUlS^, i>rKAIl\:>, ^lyu njiuiojLC). toy bones, the cup-shaped head of the radius is readily detected posterior to the condyle, and the bend of the elbow is filled up with the pro- jected extremity of the humerus. By hyper-extension, or extension and rapid flexion, reduction takes place; moreover, this is not attended with crepitus, nor yet with redisplacement when support is with- drawn, as is so well- marked in cases where thehumenjs is broken. After every reduction the surgeon must fully flex the limb, in order to satisfy himself that all is right. Treat- ment is then similar to that for fracture in the elbow-joint (see Fig. 96). It sometimes hap- pens that the radius alone is displaced, and its head is to be found Y\g. iss.-Reduction 01 Backward Dislocation lying in front of or be- of Elbow over the Knee, hind the external con- dyle. In such a case the surgeon extends the forearm, supinating in the first form, and pronating in the second, to get the parts in appo- sition. A special pad should be bound over its head to retain it, and the elbow kept at rest for a longer period than in other dislocations. (4) Dislocation at the Wrist-joint is easily recognised, and as easily reduced. (5) Dislocation of the Thumb is often very stubborn. By forcing the metacarpal well into the centre of the hand, fitting on the Siamese link, making extension in the direction of displacement, and then suddenly and forcibly flexing in the opposite direction, the ligaments and tendons may be so stretched that the reduction takes place. An excellent plan is to hyper-extend the thumb, and then push the base of the phalanx upwards and flex. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis passes to the ulnar side, and sometimes requires to be unlocked by manipulation before reduction can be effected. (6) Dislocation of the Phalanges.—When the phalanges are di.splaced, there is some little difficulty in getting a grip of the small distal extremity. The toy known as the " Siamese link " gives one a good purchase, or somewhat similar methods may be improvised. I7) The rare condition of mallet or dropfinger is one in which there is more or less complete subcutaneous rupture of the extensor tendon of the finger at its insertion, so that the terminal phalanx is displaced and the flexor tendon entangles over the head of the second phalanx. Replacement is effected by means of a splint, but operative treatment may in some cases be necessary. (8) Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—The recognition of this issimple in the extreme. The patient cannot close his mouth or articulate; the glenoid articulation is found to be empty; but the condyle may be felt at the eminentia articularis; the masseter and temporal muscles are tense. The condition may occur on one or both sides. For reduction, the patient sits on a low stool facing the surgeon, who lays his thumb on the last molars of the dislocated jaw, and places his fingers firmly beneath the patient's chin. He then forcibly pushes downwards and backwards with his thumbs, upwards and forwards with his fingers; and as he feels the jaw move, dexterously withdraws his thumbs as reduction is effected. The thumbs may be protected with a napkin. Subsequent retention and treatment are as in simple fracture of the lower jaw. (9) Dislocation of the Hip-joint presents the marked feature of an inverted limb, when the head of the femur has passed backwards or upwards. If it lies forwards and downwards in the obturator foramen, the toes are pointed and the limb abducted and everted. In every case, the leg is so fixed, that attempts to straighten and flex up the knee or hip-joint are always associated with more or less of a rocking motion of the pelvis, which takes place through the lumbar vertebrae—as may be estabhshed if one lays his hand under the back, while he puts his patient through these movements. In direct displacement forwards, the head of the bone is readily felt out of place. The posterior displacements are the more common. Reduction is most readily effected under chloroform. The patient is laid on his back, and as soon as he is deeply "under," the surgeon flexes the leg on the thigh, the thigh on the abdomen. Thus he relaxes the iho-psoas and ilio-femoral band (Y-shaped ligament), and. Fig. 126.—Reduction of Dislocation of Hip. moreover, causes the head to descend and lie rather in relation with the rent in the capsule through which it emerged. He then, grasping the patient's ankle, circumducts the limb outwards and extends, and the head enters its socket. If the dislocation be of the obturator or pubic form, the first part of the procedure is similar, but the surgeon circumducts to the inside. As Prof. Chiene briefly puts it:—Where the head lies to the outsideDISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AJMU £>Kui^ts.o. i/i of a vertical line drawn through the acetabulum, circumduct oulxcards after flexion ; if it lies to the inside, circumduct inwards. It mav happen that the head travels backwards and forwards between'the obturator foramen and the region of the sciatic notch, in place of entering the acetstbulum, while one attempts reduction. If the surgeon will, however, execute the movements, while he lifts the patient by the leg, as it were, it will be found that the head usually clears the rim of the cotyloid cavity, and becomes replaced. After-treatment consists in tying the patient's legs together in bed, and putting on a pelvic band. If necessary a long sphnt may be used. i j j (10) Dislocations of the Patella are not unfrequently reduced by the patient himself. They are easily recognised, and yield to flexion-movements, combined with rotation and extension. (11) Dislocations of the Knee, Ankle, or Astragalus are commonly compound. Cautions to be observed in old-standing Cases-.—Reduction of old-standing dislocations should not be lightly undertaken, and the whole circumstances of the case must be carefully reviewed. Treatment of Sprains.—If seen immediately after the accident, the injured part should be held for a few minutes under a cold tap ; the limb should then be raised, wrapped in cotton wool, and firmly bandaged, a sphnt being put on to keep the parts at rest. These measures aim at limiting the subcutaneous bleeding. The great pain which often follows a few hours after a bad sprain, especially when not treated at once, will be most relieved by hot fomentations, but as these increase the after-swelling, they should be limited, and as far as possible avoided. The pain which may appear eight or ten hours after the injury, and which may continue for a day or two, is due to inflammation, and is best treated by rest and elastic pressure, and by cold applications—such as an ice-bag, or a bandage or cloth wetted in cold water, or in an evaporating lotion, and exposed to the air. As soon as acute symptoms have subsided, the swelling should be treated by firm elastic pressure and rest, with occasional gentle rubbing in the course of the nerves and lymphatic channels. In most cases, simultaneously with the subsidence of swelling, gentle passive and active movements should begin. It may, how- ever, be necessary for the joint to be supported for some weeks after the injury. The risk of chronic inflammation beginning should always be kept in view, especially in patients of a strumous constitution (see Johtt fixation). In gouty and rheumatic subjects constitutional treatment is required. ^\'here much thickening results after a sprain, the joint as well as the muscles which act over it should be steadily treated by massage (Chap, xix.) Bruises must be treated much in the same way as sprains—by re- straining sui,cutaneous hasmorrhagfe at first, giving rest to the injured tissues, and afterwards promoting absorption. The domestic remedy of a piece of raw meat bandaged over a bruised part is an example of a good means of ensuring cold and pressure. Hence its value.CHAPTER XVIII. EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES AND CIVIL AMBULANCE-WORK. Contents. — Extemporary Appliances in Civil Life — Accidents — Fractures—Extemporary Splints—How to lift and carry an Injured Person—Extemporary Stretchers and Slings—Bleeding Wounds —Domestic Antiseptics available—Bleeding from an Artery- Extemporary Tourniquet—Rules for Bearers of the Wounded— Formation of Ambulance Classes. In time of war, the necessities of the case demand that use should be made of whatever comes first to hand for the extemporary manufacture of splints and stretchers. As no amount of precautions and no organisation can ever entirely obviate the difficulties of attending to the Wounded in war, the utilisation of arms and accoutrements for making splints and stretchers, and the possible applications of a triangular handkerchief as a simple fonn of bandage and retentive apparatus, have been made the special study of military surgeons in civilised countries. In recent years it has been recognised that circumstances much resembling those of war very frequently occur in civil life—in so far, that accidents of all kinds happen when no trained assistance is at hand, or special apparatus is available. On this account. Civil Ambulance classes have been formed all over the country in order to train non- professional persons to give " first aid " to the injured with such apparatus as may be generally available. So much attention has been given to this subject by lay-people, that few medical men—far less medical students—could, without having specially studied it, put up an ordinary fracture on the street so neatly or so well with umbrellas, sticks, and handkerchiefs, or other extemporary apparatus, as a well-trained member of one of those classes. Considering that many of these men are skilled mechanics, and that they enter upon this practical work with the keenest interest, we need not be surprised that their standard of exceUence is very high. It, therefore, becomes the profession to see that they are not out- stripped in this matter by their lay brothers. We shall here briefly indicate the chief points requiring attention; practice must do the rest. Fractures—(A.) Of the Lower Limb.—It isof gieat importance to decide at once whether or not a fracture is probably or possibly present, because fixation of the broken bone should be ensured before the injured person is lifted or disturbed. The Diagnosis must be made chiefly firom the helplessness of the limb, the pain, and the distortion, as it is not always advisable to test for crepitus, if it should not be manifest on the first gentle handling. In doubt, treat as if a fracture were present.EXTEMPORARY AFFLlAJM^Ji^. lyj The great secret in handling a fractured limb is to keep up extension upon it, until the splints be applied. (a.) ExUmporary Splints, it is needless to say, may be of any material that fvill give the necessary stiffness. For shorter sphnts a n.ass of folded paper of any kind does very well, or a folded coat^ ^cSng, or other stout cloth. Nothing is better than the straw «velo|es used for packing bottles. Pieces of fire-wood, old wooden or pasteboard boxes broken up, walking-sticks, and umbrellas, are also generally available. . , A capital spUnt may be made by knotting together pieces of wood, w'dsps of hay or straw, or bundles of twigs. This used m Vhe army, and makes a splint which closely imitates Gooch s, adapting itself easily to the limb (Fig. 127). For bmdmg the Fig. i27.-Extemporised Splint made from Twigs knotted together. splint in position, handkerchiefs, cravats, twine, or rope, may be '^^'will be found an additional security (especially in fracture of the thi<^h, or where the patient has to be carried a long distance) to utilise the sound limb by fixing it to the injured one after the sphnts have been applied. Three bands are generally enough-one at the ankle, another at the knee, and the third round the thigh.. In addition, a board may be fastened below the legs, to make aU secure (Fig. 128). A long splint may be extemporised from a Fig. 128. —Steadying the Lower Limb broom-stick, or any other piece of wood or metal which is about the right length. {b.) How to lift and carry the /'a/zVw/'.—Supposing a fracture to have occurred on the street, and the injured limb to have been secured with temporary splints—the next matter is to lift the patient, and carry him to his house or the nearest hospital. A patient thus injured may be carried (i) in the arms; (2) on a blanket; (3) on an extemporised stretcher.(l) In the Three or (if available) four bearers are required to carry a patient in the horizontal position. Getting into position.—While the patient is still on the ground, the bearers range themselves on his sound side (say, his right), and stooping down, put the left knee (in every case) on the ground with the right foot near it. No. I is opposite the shoulder, and placing his left arm beneath the right shoulder, leans across and passes his right arm under the patient's left axilla, and tries to meet his hands beneath ; the patient at the same time, if able, clasps No. I round the neck and shoulders. No. 2, also on the right side, passes 6oiA arms well below the patient's pelvis. No. 3, still on the same side, passes one arm below the thighs, and the other below the legs. 11 there be a No. 4, he goes to the opposite side, and helps to lift the tnmk and thigh, by passing his arms below. First Stage. —When all are ready, No. 4 (or whoever is taking the lead) gives the word to lift. The patient is then raised from the ground, and supported on the right knees of the bearers, which, from the position assumed, project as a convenient support. Second Stage.—A stretcher, if available, should now be placed beneath the patient by No. 4, who then assists in lowering the patient into it. Should there be no stretcher, the bearers, having adjusted their hold in the first stage, can then more readily rise to the erect position in the second, and carry the injured person to a place of safety. As this is a fatiguing mode of carrying to all concerned, it should not be attempted for more than one or two hundred yards. Where only two bearers are available, the patient must be carried in the sitting position, by the two-, three-, or four-handed seat The four-handed seat is best when the patient can clasp his bearers round the neck ; the two-handed seat is available when two bearers have to carry a nearly unconscious patient; and the use of the three-handed seat is for an intermediate condition. Four-handed Seat (Fig. 129).—The bearers place themselves on each side of the wounded person, facing obliquely towards him, and stooping down. Each grasps his own left wrist with his right hand, and with his left hand grasps the right wrist of the other bearer. The patient places himself on the seat thus formed, and puts an arm round the shoulders of each bearer as they rise to the erect position. Three-handed Seat. —The bearers having placed them- selves in the same position relative to the patient, the pig. lag.—Four-handed Seat, one on the right (No, i) grasps his own left fore-arm with his right hand, and with his lefthand he grasps the left fore-arm of the other bearer, No. 2, who at the same time uses his left hand to take hold of the nght fore-arm of No. I.' The patient is placed on the seat thus formed, and steadying himself as well as he can with his arms (as in the four- handed seat), he is still further supported by the free right hand of No. 2, placed behind him, and grasping the back of the coat of No. I. , a Two-handed Seat (Fig. 130).—The bearers havmg placed them- selves as before, kneel on the knee which is to the front (nght of No. I, and left of No. 2), and placing their hands beneath the patient's arm-pits, raise him into a half-sitting posture against their other knees. They now pass their front arms beneath his thighs, and locking the fingers to- gether with the palms upper- most, form a support for him. Their other hands are now made into a back-support, each grasping the other wrist. Rising together, they lift the patient, and proceed to carry him off. The great secret of all these seats is for the bearers to press strongly together, by so doing the ease of carrying is greatly increased. 2. Oti a Blanket, Hug, or strofig Sheet.—Two bearers on each side are required; the blanket having been spread out below the patient, its side edges are rolled on themselves, close up to his body. The con- tiguous hands of the bearers on each side grasp the rolled blanket about opposite the patient's loins, while with their other hands they seize it, opposite his shoulders and knees respectively. They can now easOy lift him. If he be unable to support his own head another person must attend to this, or the blanket must be seized higher up. A stiff rod or pole, if rolled into the edge of the blanket, increases the facility of lifting. 3. On a Stretcher.—Where a regular stretcher is not available, a substitute is easily made. If a shutter or a board is not to be had, a short ladder, wooden gate, or part of a fence, does very well. If two stout poles can be found, it will not be difficult to supply the necessary material to stretch between them. Ordinary ropes, or those made from twisted hay or other material, may be laced across from side to side, or holes may be made in the ends of sacks and the poles pushed through. Or again, cloth, sacking, &c., may be nailed to the poles. Coats may be used by turning the sleeves inside out, and buttoning the front of the coat over the poles. Two or three ordinary coats are required for this purpose. If an ulster be available, it will be still better. If a transverse bar to keep the Fig. 130.—Two-handed Seat.lllUIUl.*WIIJtWIKII||l 111 poles apart can be supplied, it will much facilitate the ease oi carrying (Fig. 131), Should it not be possible to find suitable single poles, strong walking-sticks or umbrellas can be used-if tied together with handkerchiefs or rope. Two extra assistants, however, will then be required. The handled ends of the walking-sticks are to be placed Fig. 131.—Stretcher made with Poles and Cloth. together, and each firmly looped on to the end of a handkerchief. The coats or other material are then slipped over the sticks, the middle of the handkerchiefs being left out to be grasped, while (Fig. 132) the ferruled ends of the sticks project in front and behind Fig. 132—Mode of utilising Sticks. &c., as Stretcher Poles. to be grasped by the front and back bearers. No attempt is made to splice the sticks, and so assistants must lift their attached ends. B. Fractures of the Upper Limb—Fore-arm, or Upper Arm.—Any thick fold of cloth or paper, or a piece of wood or metal, will keep the bones steady until regular appliances can be obtained. A sling is very easily made from two ordinary pocket-handker- chiefs, by tying one loosely round the neck, and after laying the fore-arm diagonally on the other, tying its two side corners within the first (Fig. 133). Other slings may be made by folding up the side of a coat, and pinning or buttoning it in position, ripping up the seam of the sleeve, and folding it over the arm, or suspending the limb with a cravat or sash.EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES. 177 If the clavicle be broken, all that is needed is to support the elbow well by an extemporary sling, and bind the arm to the side. Should the handkerchief round the neck press upon the broken bone, the two ends of handkerchiefs must be knotted together. One handkerchief is then placed over the sound shoulder, while the other, spread out, and passing below the elbow of the injured side, is carried to the back to be fastened there to the free end of the first handkerchief. A fractured Icnuer jaw requires to be supported by pressure from below against the upper jaw. A handkerchief round the chin will be found sufficient. C. Bleeding Wounds.— In the extemporary treatment of bleeding wounds, whether with or without a fracture, there are three objects to be kept in view, viz.:—(i) Stopping the bleeding; (2) Covering up the wound; (3) Fixing the part to ensure rest. The first and second indications may often be combined by fixing a firm pad over the wound. As dry absorbent wool charged with an antiseptic is not likely to be avail- able, any clean dry piece of cloth may be used instead. If an anti- septic be not at hand to cleanse the wound, should it be evidenily dirty, boiled water will be at least a-septic, as will be any rags or Fig. 133.—Pocket Handkerchiefs used as Sling. cloths wrung out of boihng water; if applied hot to the wound, Fie. 134. —Digital Compression of Femoral Artery. 12178 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. they will have, in addition, a haemostatic effect, and should replace the dry rag. {N.B.—Although a recently washed and clean cloth is not necessarily aseptic, it will be more nearly so than one which has been collecting dust from all sides since it left the washing-tub.) Domestic Antiseptics are :—Turpentine (also an excellent haemo- static), and alcohol in the form of spirits, strong wines, or methylated spirits of wine; treacle or golden syrup, or a syrup of ordinary sugar; glycerine. Powdered charcoal, or sulphur, is also efficacious, and is often to be had. In some country-places peat-turf is abundant. This has been largely used in Germany for wound - dressings. It should be crumbled fine, freed from lumps, and applied to the wound in bags of muslin, if possible. Bleeding from an Artery.—When a large artery is wounded, and direct pressure upon it is not possible, the bleeding must be con- trolled by digital compression (Fig. 134*) by a tourniquet or by forced flexion. Forced flexion maintained by a bandage is most easily carried out at the elbow and knee. It may be aided by a pad in the flexure of the joint, but this is not essential. A simple way of fastening the bandage, which is to keep up the forced flexion of the knee, is to pass it through two slits in the patient's boot just above the heel. The femoral artery may also be com- pressed by forcible flexion of the thigh on the trunk. While any one can stop the pulse at the wrist by voluntarily forcing his arm down behind his back, as Braune showed, it is practically im- possible to control the circulation in another person by bandaging the limb in this position. In an emergency Keene's method (p. 48) would be indicated where digital compression could not be continued, as in carr)ing a patient in an ambulance. In the case of the thorax or abdomen firm circular compression over the seat of an injury where internal hajmorrhage was suspected, would be of two- fold service. It would ensure rest, and it would, in the abdomen especially, restrain hemorrhage. An extemporary tourniquet may be made from any scarf or piece of rope, as follows (Fig. 135) : — Knot the band round the limb so loosely that the fingers may easily pass beneath the band ; take a piece of strong stick and twist it into the loose band : then take a piece of paper and lay it on the skin just below the stick, to prevent the skin being nipped in ; now, twist the stick round until the band is sufficiently tight. If a hand- kerchief or scarf be used, a stone or other firm substance may be * See also p. 65- Fig. 135.—Extemporised Tourniquet.EXTEMPORAR V APPLIANCES. 179 folded into it to form a pad over the main vessel of the limb. It should never be forgotten that the pressure of a tourniquet, though sometimes necessary, is always more or less injurious, and in five or six hours is likely to damage seriously the tissues below the point where it is applied. (3) The third object, fixation, should be ensured in the limbs by applying an extemporary splint after the bleeding has been stopped and the wound occluded. Rules for Bearers of the Wounded.—The rules given in militar}' works for carrying wounded men on stretchers are :— (1) To place the patient towards the injured side, in a wound of the chest or lower limb. (2) Towards the sound side, if the upper limb be injured. (3) On his back with legs drawn up, if the abdomen be wounded. These indications may also be of service in carrying hospital patients to and from the operating-theatre. The front bearer in carrying a stretcher should be out of step with the rear bearer, to prevent a disagreeable swing. It is better generally to carry the patient feet foremost; but in going on a hill, the patient's head should be towards the top, unless the injury be a fracture of the thigh, in which case the injured limb should be uppermost. Formation of Ambulance Classes. Practitioners in country districts are frequently asked to undertake a course of Ambulance Lectures, and from want of special training in ambulance work are often at a loss to know how to proceed. If they can arrange the matter with their pupils, practitioners in such a position should form a local branch of one or other of the existing Ambulance Associations — e.g., of the St. John Ambulance Association in England, or of the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association in Scotland. If they put themselves in communication with the secretary of either Association, they will be furnished with full instructions " how to form a class," and will be able to get the loan of a Skeleton, a Stretcher, Diagrams, and the other necessary apparatus. should no such formal work be desired, the practitioner cannot do better than take as his basis the Syllabus laid down by one or other of these Associations, and make such modifications as the circumstances ol his case may seem to indicate. The following is the Syllabus of Ambulance Lectures as laid down by the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association:—i8o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. SYLLABUS OF AMBULANCE LECTURES. Pirst Lecture.—A. Introductory remarks, explaining clearly the scope and object of lay help in ambulance work, special attention being drawn to the need for it, as well as the usefulness and simplicity of it. B. Short sketch of the general anatomy ol the human body, including a briet description of the functions of digestion, absorption, circulation, respiration, e.xcretion, secretion, and innervation. C Uses of a bandage—Of the two kinds of bandage, the roller not needed for ambulance work—Description of Esmarch's triangular bandage, pointing out (i) its advantages, (2) method of folding it and fastening it, (3) its application in different ways —Hints as to the "first dressing" of wounds by ambulance pupils. Second Lecture.—A. Short account ol the skeleton, with brief description of the structure and varieties of the joints. B. (l) Fractures—Their varieties, causes, symptoms, and dangers— Their temporary treatment and the apparatus necessary for it. (2) Dislocations—How they difier from fractures, and the first aid in such cases—No necessity for immediate reduction, and the dangers of attempted reduction by non-professional persons. C. Illustrations of the temporary treatment of the following simple fractures—(i) collar bone, (2) upper arm, (3) fore-arm, (4) the hand, (5) thigh, (6) leg, (7) foot, (8) lower jaw. Third Lectxire. — To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the use of the triangular bandage and the temporary treatment of the different fractures mentioned in the previous lecture. Fourth Lecture.—A. (i) General description of the circulation of the blood, and the mechanism by which it is carried on— {2) Distinction between arterial, venous, and capillary hasmor- rhage— (3) Names of the main arteries of the body, with their situations — (4) Points where arterial circulation may be arrested by pressure—(5) Dangers of hasmorrhage. B. General treatment of haemorrhage:—I. Internal licunorrhage— First aid in cases of (i) bleeding from the nose, (2) spitting ol blood, (3) vomiting of blood. II. External hemorrhage— (1) Application of cold, either by water or exposure to air— (2) Elevation of part—(3) Local pressure—(4) Distant pressure on main artery supplying wound, either by hand or tourniquet —{5) Three kinds of tourniquet: elastic, screw, and improvised. C. Show mode of applying elastic or screw tourniquet, and of making an improvised one —Give illustrations ol arrest of hemorrhage from (i) scalp. (2) neck, (3) armpit, (4) upper arm, (s) fore-arm, (6) hand, (7) thigh, (8) ham, (9) leg, (10) foot —Give illustrations of temporary treatment ol a covifound fracture, with haemorrhage in upper or lower extremity.Fifth Lecture.— To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the arrest of hsemorrhage in various situations, and in the temporary treatment of compound fractures. Sixth Lecture.—A. Short account of respiration, its objects and mechanism. B. Fainting, its causes, symptoms, and treatment — Immediate treatment of those apparently drowned, or suffocated by (i) hanging, (2) poisonous gases, (3) choking—First aid in cases of (i) burns and scalds, (2) bites by animals possibly rabid, (3) tears from machinery, (4) crushed and bruised parts, (5) stabs. C. Show mode of performing artificial respiration (Sylvester's method) and also the temporary featment of fractmed ribs. Seventh Lecture.—To be devoted to practical work, when the members will exercise themselves in performing artificial respiration, and in the arrest of haemorrhage from supposed cases of ruptured varicose veins, stabs, tears from machinery, and g^shot wounds. Eighth Lecture.—A. Short account of the nervous and digestive systems. B. Svmptoms and first treatment of shock or collapse. C. First aid in cases of (i) those stunned by a fall or injury to the head, (2) of convulsions, (3) of epilepsy, (4) of sunstroke, (5) of persons found insensible, (6) of suspected poisoning, (7) of frost-bite, (8) of lime in the eye, (9) of supposed death. Ninth Lecture—for Males only.*—A. Removal of Injured by means of stretchers, special attention being directed to (1) the proper carriage of the stretcher, (2) the manner of placing it, (3) the loading and unloading it, (4) the position of the patient on it, (5) suggestions as to overcoming difficulties on the road, (6) hints as to the conveyance of stretchers by rail or country carts. B. Short account of some of the improvised methods of removing injured persons when no stretchers or regular conveyances are available, as by the two-handed, three-handed, and four-handed seats. C. Give illustrations as to how to prepare and fold up a stretcher. Tenth Lecture—for Males only.*-Stretcher drill in presence of and under direction of Lecturer. • In Ladies' Class, Lectures on Sick Nursing will take the place of these Lectures.■n ^ i\\j A \^^ -i-i-.1^U \J\Jn.. SYLLABUS OF LECTURES TO WOMEN ON HOME NURSING AND HYGIENE. 1. The Sick-Room.—Introductory Remarks. The Sick-Roora—ita Selection, Preparation, Cleaning, Warming, Ventilation, and Furnishing—Bed and Bedding. H, Infection and Disinfection.—Infectious and Non-Infectious Cases—Quarantine of Patient—History of a Fever Case Disinfecting and Disinfectants. IIL Details of Nursing.—The Nurse: Management of Nurse's own Health—Regulation of Visitors—Washing and Dressing Patients—Bed-making—Changing Sheets—Lifting Helpless Patients. IV. Details of Nursing.—Sick Diet: Administration of Food, Medicines, and Stimulants—Observation of the Sick as to ji) Rigors, (2) Sleep, (3) Pain, (4) Posture, (5) Skin, 6) Appetite, (7) Vomiting, (8) Cough, (9) Expectoration, (10) the Effects of Remedies. V. Details of Nursing.—The Pulse—Taking of Temperature- Baths—Bed-Sores—Delirium—Nursing Sick Children—What to prepare for the Physician's and Surgeon's visit. VI. Application of Local Remedies.—Poultices—Fomentations- Blisters— Ointments—Leeches—Padding—Splints—Bandaging —Personal and Family Hygiene—Management of Convales- cents. Should more information be desired, consult one or other of the numerous Handbooks in existence.* * Such as A Manual of Ambulance, by Dr. J. Scott Riddell, Examiner to the St. Andrew's and St. John Ambulance Associations (Charles Griffin & Co., Limited); The Ambulance Pupil (Crosby, Lockwood & Co.); Aid to the Injured and Sick, by Dr. Gill (Allman & Son); Common Accidents, by Dr. Andrew Wilson (Chatto and Windus) • A mbulance Handbook, by Dr. G. T. Beatson.CHAPTER XIX. MASSAGE. Coiitents.-UtiHty of Massage-Physiological effects P^of "^ed t)y H- Objects aimed at in the use of Massage-Movements employed ^T-StabUe" (Pressing, Hacking, Thrusting, Tapping, P>nching) -i) ■■LabUe" (Stroking. Kneading, Rubbing^Time to be occupied at each fining-The E_^eurage.P^irusag^^^^ sequence-Surgical conditions in which Massage will be beneficial- Caution. ALTHOUGH the term "massage" has been objected to, as now meaning more than merely "kneading," still it is a convenien word to express those manipulations of muscles, joints, and other parts, which are often so very useful as a means of treatment. It seems right in a work of this sort to explain the methods employed, and indicate generally their applications to surgical disease, for there can be no doubt that "massage is mvaluab e in certain cases, and no well-educated surgeon or physician should be ignorant of its general principles. ^. , , ^, „ .t,,^ Many are deterred from studying the subject by the assertion that no one can learn it without special personal instruction. Schreiber, however, in his eminently scientific Manual of Treatment by Massage, =ays as to this, that " the necessary knowledge and skill can very weU be mastered without an instructor, if, with each manipulation, the final end, namely, the physiological effect, be kept strictly in view Physiological Effects.—What, then, are these physiological effects I. Soothing and gentle stimulation of cutaneous nerves by stroking the skin. . . , . 2 Encouraging venous and lymphatic circulation by stroking tow'ards the heart. The vessels reached will depend on the part and on the depth of pressure. Following from this, there results increased activity of the circulation of the part so treated, i.e., dilated arteries and capillaries, and a more rapid current of blood, and, m consequence, increased waimth, more active nutrition, and the removal of effused material. Muscles after massage have their electrical conductivity as well as theu" voluntary motor power greatly increased, and they recover from exhaustion much more rapidly than when left to themselves. 3. Mechanical stimulation of the tissues, leading, probably, to molecular changes, and resulting in increased activity of circulation and of metabolism. The tissues most usually affected besides the blood-vessels are the muscles, nerves, and in pathological conditions, inflammatory exudations. There is no reason why gland-tissues might not be affected in a similar way.Objects aimed at in Massage.—These effects of massage are applied— 1. To stimulate the circulation locally or generally; increase metabolism, and encourage nutrition, whether in the skin, in glan- dular organs such as those of digestion, in special groups of muscles, or in the body as a whole. Also to equalise the circulation, and draw blood away from congested areas {e.g., shampooing to induced sleep). Eccles* points out that light friction of the skin increases the pulse rate, probably through the agency of the nervous system ; while deep muscular shampooing generally slows the pulse, probably by dilating the vessels in the muscles. 2. By exciting molecular changes to remove certain neuralgias, e.g., some forms of sciatica, and myalgias of the recent rheumatic or lumbago type. Fig. 136.—Pressure—Rapid Lateral Movements. Fig. 137.—" Hacking." Although an almost endless number of methods of manipulation have been advocated, the chief ones only need be described here. The Movements employed.—The simplest subdivision of the movements is that adopted by Schreiber, who classifies them as "stabile" and "labile." Under the first he includes pressing, tapping (or beating), hacking, pinching, and concussing; under the second, stroking, rubbing, and kneading. (a.) Stabile Movements.—(i) " Pressing" may be done with the tip of one or more fingers, with their phalanges (especially 2nd), or with the knuckles. The simple pressure may be modified by lateral or rotatory movements, or by passing into a rubbing or kneading movement. The amount of pressure employed will vary with the depth to be reached, and the object to be attained (Fig. 136). (2) " Tapping, thrusting, hacking" (i.e., " Tapotement") indicate sudden effects produced more or less forcibly. " Tapping" is done • The Practice of Massaet.MASS Alia., with the pulp of the fingers from the wrist, as in percussing the chest, or by knocking, as at the door, with the knuckles. "Thrusting" is poking up the deeper parts with the tips of the extended fingers, knuckles, or closed fist. " Hacking is striking the muscles xvith the ulnar edge of the opened hand or fingers, according as more or less force is required. It is used m dealing with the lar<^er groups of muscles, and with deep nerves (i-ig. 137)- Under this head may also be included "shakings" of various parts, and ' • \abrations," or more rapid and finer '' shakings. Both are methods of producing mechanical stimulation. (3) "Pinching" is a grasping of the soft parts, either with the tips of the thumb and fingers, or with the pulp of the same, applied specially to muscles and groups of muscles. A series of pinches following one an- other along the muscles in a centripetal direction is said to force onwards the venous blood and lymph. This may result to a certain ex- tent. Those who insist most, however, on the neces- sity for anatomical know- ledge in the masseur, seem to forget that to a certain extent in all muscles, and very markedly so in some, the blood-vessels enter the muscles at certain central points from which they after- wards radiate. We would, therefore, believe that the chief value of this manipula- tion is the mechanical dis- turbance produced. A modification of pinching consists in "squeezing' the tissues between the ball of the thumb and the tips of the fingers, after the fashion of what schoolboys term a " Horse bite "—one of their numerous forms of mild torture. {b.) Labile Movements comprise stroking, rubbing, and kneading. (I) Centripetal stroking or " milking," when applied to the veins and lymphatics, is known as " effleurage." This increases the circulation, and aids absorption. It precedes and follows most other movements to clear out the main trunks and prepare for their being filled, and afterwards to sweep away accumulations within them.* It is carried out either with the flat of the hand or with the edges of the spread-out forefinger and thumb, followed up with the palm of the hand. Muscles and groups of muscles are to be so treated as well as the subcutaneous textures. * Grant, Edin. Med. Journal, Aug., 1887. Figs. 138 and 139.—" Pinching."186 A iiUKUJCAL HANVBUUK. (2) Friction, "kneading" (/V/rj'«<2^«), or rubbing proper, consists in firm pressure moved over special spots. It is specially applicable to inflammatory thickenings, in and round joints and tendon sheaths, and in the substance of muscle. It may be done with the finger- tips or knuckles: but the pulp of the thumb will be found specially useful. The operator tries to dispel the thickening, as if by his own efforts, although he knows that probably the chief benefit will result from the after-vital changes which he sets up. Time Necessary.—The time to be occupied at each sitting is a matter of opinion. Dr. Grant, writing after a visit to von Mosengeil's Clinique, believed that in Britain the period is generally too much prolonged. His view was " That when once the muscles have been fairly and completely emptied of venous blood, lymph, and waste products, and when once an active afflux of arterial blood has been established, nothing more can be done for the time." In general massage, " every muscle should be subjected to two successive processes of effleurage-pHrissage-effl-eurage" and this should be done by rapid movements in from 10 to 15 minutes. In local massage, about the same time may be occupied, except where inflammatory thickenings have to be got rid of, when a somewhat longer time may be taken. Once a day is generally sufficient. The Commoner Surgical Conditions in which Massage is applicable, are:— (1) Stiff Joints, resulting from prolonged fixation for any reason, or following simple inflammation in and round the joint. (Caution.— The stiffness following sti-ufnous" arthritis is getierally in old, and always in recent cases, best left alone, lest the original mischief should be re-excited.) In these cases, the massage is applied to get rid of inflammatory thickenings, and to stimulate the growth and activity of muscles, which have been atrophied from disuse. Greater benefit results if, before the massage, the joint or limb is subjected to a local bath of hot air or vapour, or to a stream of hot dry sand repeatedly applied. Failing these, hot water may be employed. Progressively increased passive and active movements, and faradisation, are also useful. (2) Inflammatory Thickenings in any accessible part—e.g., round urethral strictures, in callous ulcers, in the testis after orchitis (non- tubercular), after neglected injuries to joints, &c. (3) Rheumatic Contractures and Thickenings, where similar applications are made upon the affected muscles and the skin over them. (4) Recent Effusions, to promote absorption of blood and serum by effleurage. In this lies the great value of massage in sprains and after reduction of dislocation. The effleurage is cautiously applied at first only to the limb on the proximal side of the injury. By the emptying of the veins and lymphatics they more rapidly absorb the effusions from the sprained part and so relieve tension, and permit of early movement. As the tenderness subsides the nutri- tion of the muscles can also be maintained by a deeper massage which reaches their substance, and before long the massage can be Ulli.4U.mV 111* HPapplied directly to the injured area. The time at which these stages in the process will be carried out will vary with the seventy of the injur)- and the skill and judgment of the masseur. Some also advise the promotion of absorption of other forms of synovial distention in the same way. (5) In Fractures.—Thtre can be no doubt that recovery after almost all fractures will be much hastened by massage. The splints where the nature of the case requires them should be carefully taken down every 2 or 3 days ; the hmb, which must be steadied, should then be bathed with hot and cold water alternately and a method similar to that recommended for sprains be put into action. By this means not only is the swelling rapidly reduced, and the nutrition of the muscles maintained, but also the stagnation of the circulation, due to the splints and their fixation, is greatly obviated, and the healing process is encouraged. Union of the broken bone and a return of the function of the limb generally, are thus simultaneously hastened. The massaging process must not cause pain (Lucas Championierre).CHAPTER XX. SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. Contents.—Various Forms of Electricity Employed—Mode of Pro- ducing the Electrical Current—The "Galvanic," and the "Faradic" Current — Electro - Diagnosis — Electro - Therapeutics — Caution — Selection of Current—Duration of the Application—Motor Points— Mode of Application—Electrolysis—The Galvano-Cautery. Compared with its uses in Medical practice, the applications of Electricity to Surgery are less extensive, besides being chiefly of a different kind. For full information on " Medical Electricity," we must refer our readers to some of the special works on the subject. In the present chapter we shall only attempt a brief explanation of some ol the more important applications of Electricity to Surgical practice. The Forms of Electricity employed are the Galvanic, or Chemical, current, allowed to remain continuous, more or less slowly interrupted, or occasionally reversed, and the rapidly interrupted induced Faradic current. The terms " Galvanic and "Faradic" are derived from the name of the discoverer of the special form of current in each case. Electricity is the same thing under all circumstances, but it differs in its effects according to the way in which it is produced. Before we speak, however, of the applications of current elec- tricity, we must understand the mode in which it is produced. Mode of Producing the Electrical Currettt.—The Galvanic Current is obtained from some form or other of " cell" or " element." This depends for its construction on the fact that when two dissimilar metals, or a metal and carbon, are immersed in a corrosive fluid, and either touch at one point or are united by a connecting-wire, an electrical current is established in the "Circuit," which is the term used to express the combination of metals, fluid, and connection. One such arrangement is called a palvanic cell or galvanic element, while a number of cells coupled together form a battery or pile. The metal more easily attacked by the fluid is corroded, while bubbles of hydrogen gas form on the other. The current is said to begin at the corroding metal, pass through the fluid to the other metal or carbon, thence throueh the latter, and back to the first metal by the point of junction or by the connectmg-wire. The outer por- tion of the current—i.e., that which flows along the connecting-wire, is that which is used for medical and other purposes. The points of attachment of the connecting-wire to the metals are known as the Poles of the cell. That Pole towards which the current flows in the outer part of the circuit is called the negative () pole, while the other from which it comes, is called the positive (-t-)SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. 189 pole. -Metals have been arranged in order according to the ease with which they are attacked. Thus, in dilute sulphuric acid, the order would be amalgamated zinc, ordinary zinc, iron, tin, lead, copper, silver, platinum, and carbon. The further apart the metals are in the series, the greater the difference in their "potential"—i.e., the greater the tendency for a current to flow from the one to the other in a "cell." Electro-Motive Force is the magnitude of the cause which produces the electric flow. It will, of course, vary with the metals chosen, and with the fluid in which they are immersed. Amalgamated zinc is generally chosen for the negative pole metal or negative plate ; copper, silver pure or platinised, or carbon, for the other or positive plate. As the cell works, a layer of hydrogen gas tends to gather on the positive plate, a process which is called polarisation, and which is important because its effect is to interfere with the original current bv sending one in the reverse direction. Polarisation is a frequent cause of disorder in batteries. To obviate it (i) the positive plate is made rough, so that the hydrogen may form air-bells and escape by rising to the surface. (2) Some substance which absorbs hydrogen by uniting with it is interposed between the two plates—e.g., binoxide of manganese in the Leclanche cell, bichromate of potash in the Grenet cell, sulphate of copper in the Daniell cell, &c. The electro-motive force is always the same for the combination of any two metals immersed in a given fluid to form a cell, however large or however small the surface of metal exposed to that fluid be. It has been likened to the '' head " of water, which is always the same for a given height to which a quantity of water may be raised, how- ever any other conditions as to size of pipe, &c., may vary. The electro-motive forces of a number of cells can he superposed by coupling the cells together in series—i.e., connecting the positive plate of one cell to the negative of the next, and so on ; thus multiplying the electro-motive force by the number of cells em- ployed. The flow of Electricity is always more or less resisted, both within the cell (internal resistance), and there especially in the corroding fluid, which acts as a conductor; and also outside the cell {external resistance), in the wire or other conductor, which unites the two poles. The resistance, like that of a pipe to the flow of water through it, is in inverse proportion to the cross-section of the con- ductor, and in direct proportion to its length. Thus, the smaller the cross-section of the conductor, and the longer it is, the greater will be the resistance which it offers to a current of electricity, and vice versd. Hence, the larger the "plates" of a cell, the greater the cross-section of the fluid conductor between them, and so the less the "internal" resistance of the cell—a factor which can be still further diminished by bringing the " plates" nearer together. When the cells of a liattery are united, not "in series," but in sttrface"— i.e., with all the positive poles, and all the negative poles joined to one another, the electro-motive force remains as that of a single cell, butin a conductor of i ohm resistance. the internal resistance is diminished just as if the plates of a single cell had been enlarged as many times as there are cells in the battery. In such a case, any one of the coupled-together positive poles, and any one of the coupled-together negative poles, will serve as the positive and negative pole of the battery. When desired, the cells may be united "in surface" into groups of so many cells, the electro- motive force will then be multiplied by the number of groups, while the internal resistance will be diminished in proportion to the number of cells in each group. Thus, a battery of 30 cells may either be arranged entirely "in series," entirely "in surface," or into groups, say into two groups of fifteen cells each, into three groups of ten each, and so on. The current strength (<:) of a cell or battery, according to Ohm's law, varies directly with the total electro-motive force (E), and inversely with the total resistance [internal (?>), and external (er)], and is usually expressed thus — E c = er -)- ir When the electro-motive force is multiplied, say, 10 times, by coupling together lo cells in series, the internal resistance, which belongs to each cell, is also multiplied to the same extent ; but when the external resistance to be encountered by the current is very much greater than the internal resistance of the cell, this increased internal resistance may be neglected in comparison to the gain in electro- motive force attained by multiplying the cells in series. Hence, in passing currents of Electricity through the human body, where the "external" resistance is enormous, the cells of a battery must be multiplied in number and arranged in series. On the other hand, when external resistance is comparatively slight, as in electrolysis of aneurisms, or of vascular tumours, or in the galvano-cautery wire, advantage is gained by diminishing the internal resistance ; and this, as we have seen, is to be attained by increasing the size of the plates of the cells, or arranging the cells of a battery into groups, where like poles are united. Hence, for ordinary surgical electrolysis opera- tions, or galvano-cautery work, as well as tor the incandescent lamp of the cystoscope, a few large cells, or a few large groups of small cells, are what are needed. For electrolysis of uterine fibroid tumours by Apostoli's method, great electro-motive force, and conse- quently a large number of cells, in series, are needed. In order to compare the strength of various currents, certain stan- dards have been agreed upon by electricians. These are expressed as Volts, Ohms, Amperes, and Milliamperes. A Volt is the unit of electro-motive force. The electro-mOlive force of a single Daniell's cell is about I volt. An Ohm is the unit of resistance to electric currents. It is the resistance of a column of mercury about I metre long and I square millimetre in section. An Ampfere, the unit of current, is that which i volt producesSURGICAL A.fi^i.JL-Ji Jluxyo ur jz.j^i^'^^ ^^^'^a ± ^. »yi A MilliampSre is the thousandth part of an ampere. Milli- ampires are the standards usually referred to, when currents for medical or surgical purposes are spoken of. A Galvanometer is an instrument used to measure the current which flows in any circuit. By its means, we are enabled to dis- tin<niish between the theoretical power of a battery and the actual cur'rent which at any given moment it is able to send through a conductor in the face of resistance. Its construction depends upon the fact, that a finely-poised magnetic needle, if surrounded by a coil of wire, is deflected from its position, pointing north, when an electric current flows through the coil of wire. The stronger the current, the greater the deflection. By careful experiment, the degrees of deflection can be marked as equivalent to so many milUampSres. Except for the electrolysis of superficial tumours (as afterwards explained), this instrument should be interposed in the circuit whenever the continuous current is applied for any purpose to the human body, as by its use alone is any approximation possible to the dosage of Electricity employed. A perfectly accurate measure- ment of the amount of Electricity which passes through the tissues does not seem attainable, owing to polarisation within the body and other sources of loss, which cannot be correctly estimated. With a galvanometer, however, we get the best possible approximation. Electrodes are the terminals, connected with each pole of the cell or battery, which are applied to the body. They may be in the form of tubes holding a piece of sponge, or of variously shaped and sized pieces of carbon, covered with wash-leather. The larger the electrode, the more diffused the current which it transmits, and vice versA. Since the epidermis, when dry, is an extremely bad con- ductor, electrodes applied to the skin must be thoroughly moistened with water, plain, acidulated, or with a small quantity of common salt dissolved in it. For ordinary electrolysis, the electrodes should be in the form of needles insulated with vulcanite to within half- an-inch of their points. Rheophores are the two connecting-wires between the poles of the battery and the electrodes. They are generally made of copper wire, and are insulated wth guttapercha or with silk. Sometimes they are differently coloured, so that a glance may tell to which pole they belong. .\ Rheostat is an instrument employed to resist a current of electricity in a given and known way. Rheostats are made so that a known number of ohms' resistance may be interposed in a current. They are used as a means of gradually altering a current, since it will become either stronger or weaker as less or more resistance is interpiosed. A steadier current also is obtained from a number of cells strongly resisted, than from a few cells with little or no resis- tance. Induced or Faradic Current.—This depends upon certain physical laws by which (i) when a current of electricity from a cell or battery flowing along a coil of wire is suddenly interrupted, an instantaneous reverse current is at once " induced," and runs throughthe wire in the opposite direction to the first. (2) When a second coil of wire is placed outside the first, and when in the latter a current is alternately allowed to flow and is interrupted, sudden currents are " induced " and run through the second coil in the reverse direction to those in the first or inner coil. The intensity of the induced currents in the second coil increases with the number of turns of wire which this coil contains and with its proximity to the first coil. In the faradic apparatus a special mechanism is provided for automati- cally and rapidly making and breaking the first current. By adjusting the rheophores the induced current from the first, or both currents from the second coil, may be passed through the electrodes. When the rheophores are attached to the first coil, only the induced current passes through them—for reasons that we need not stop to discuss. The current thus utilised is therefore rapidly interrupted in one direction. When, however, the rheophores are connected with the outer or second coil, both currents—i.e., those in opposite directions —are passed through the electrodes. For this reason (and also because these currents are generally intensified by numerous turns in the second coil) the physiological effects produced by the currents from it are greater than those produced by the first coil. A Magneto-faradic machine is sometimes used instead of the farai lic current. The construction of this apparatus depends on the fact (i) that alterations in a magnet are produced by a bar of soft iron being brought near and then removed away from it, while at the same time the iron bar is itself magnetised and demagnetised in the process. And (2) that if the poles of the magnet and the iron bar are each surrounded by a coil of wire, each of the above changes is accom- panied by the development of an induced current of electricity in the surrounding coils. By turning a handle in one of these machines, two iron bars are made to revolve rapidly past the poles of a fixed magnet, and, by special arrangement of coils of wire, the currents thus induced in them can be led in to the rheophores to which electrodes are attached. The apparatus requires no galvanic cell, but needs some one to turn the handle, and for this reason, as well as because the shocks are found to be rougher, it is less used than the faradic apparatus. It is, however, not liable to go out of order, and may be used in hospitals where assistants are generally easily procured. Electro-Diagnosis is based upon variations which, in certain diseases of the nervous or muscular system, occur in the kind and extent of response of muscles to stimulus, applied by electricity either to the nerve alone or to the nerve and muscle together. As the subject mainly belongs to medical cases, we shall not do more than thus merely mention it in passing. Electro - Therapeutics. — In many cases of partial muscular paralysis, such as that from infantile paralysis, nerve lesion, or which follows long disuse from rheumatism, joint disease, or fracture, the apphcation of Electricity may with advantage be combined with Massage (Chap. xix.) and hot and cold douching. Caution I—When any lesion of the brain or spinal cord has causedthe paralysis, no electrical treatment should be employed until all central inflammation has subsided, because it has been found that peripheral stimuli to the nerves are transmitted in a greater or less degree to the centre, and so are apt to aggravate existing inflamma- tion there. Selection of the form of Current suitable for each particular case is, of course, greatly a matter of experience, but the general indication available to beginners has been simply and briefly stated by Wood (Therapeutics), thus:—" Ahvays select that current which produces the greatest number of contractions with the least amount of pain." In order to do this, we are then told to begin with " the rapidly interrupted faradic, or the rapidly interrupted chemical current, and always when these fail to elicit response the slowly-reversed chemical current, which, if necessary, may be increased in strength until the patient can no longer bear the pain." The rapid interruptions are made automatically by the interrupting apparatus, the slow inter- ruptions and the reversal of the chemical current must be made by the operator's hand working the special mechanism provided for the purpose in the batteries as now sent out for medical purposes. Ex- perience has shown that during the continuous passage of a current of electricity of moderate strength through a motor nerve, or through a nerve and muscle, no appreciable effect is produced ; but that when the current is suddenly interrupted, or suddenly allowed to pass again, a sudden contraction of the muscle takes place. This explains why a rapidly interrupted current produces more contraction of muscle than the same current flowing continuously. Further, it has been found that a "descending" current—i.e., where the negative pole is applied nearer to the periphery than the positive pole- produces a greater effect than an "ascending" current, when the circuit is completed or closed—z.^., when the current begins to flow; but that, on the other hand, an ascending current produces a greater effect than a " descending" current, when the current is suddenly interrupted. Also, it has been found that an alternately reversed current produces a greater effect than a current (even though inter- rupted) which flows always in the same direction. Hence the rules given above. Although it is probably not the actual contraction produced which is beneficial to an impaired muscle, still it has been found in practice that the currents which elicit contractions, as above stated, are those from which greatest benefit is obtained— while strong stimuli, which have ceased to elicit contractions, should be given up, as they have been found to do more harm than good. In many cases, the first signs of returning motility are slight voluntary contractions, even when electrical stimuli are powerless to produce Duration of Application.—will depend on the number of muscles to be stimulated, and on their condition. The weaker they are, the shorter time should they be treated with electricity. Fatigue of the muscle is always deleterious, and should be avoided. It is usual to stimulate for a few seconds each muscle of an affected group in succession. No one muscle should have more than five minutes in 13all at the outside, and generally less. The sitting, which should only last for from ten to twenty minutes, may be repeated daily, or once or twice a week, according to circumstances. Motor Points.—Duchenne, followed by Erb and others, has shown that on the skin over all superficial muscles there exists a special spot which yields the maximum of contraction, when an electrode conveying a given current is applied to it. These spots are called the ''motor points" of those muscles, which respond to the stimulus thus applied. They should always be utilised in the application of electricity to muscles.* Mode of Application.—For the galvanic current, one electrode, of large size, and for preference the anode (positive), should be placed against the patient's sternum or back, whilst the other electrode is pressed against the part to be stimulated. The size of the latter electrode will vary according to the concentration of stimulus re- quired : thus, a single fine nerve, on the motor point of a small muscle, will require a small electrode firmly pressed down, and larger areas will need larger electrodes, but somewhat stronger currents. For the faradic current, one electrode (either will do) is usually placed over the main nerve supplying the muscle, while the other is applied over its motor point. Electrolysis is the term applied to the decomposition of water, or other fluid or soft solid medium, by the passage through it of a strong current of electricity. The medium decomposed is known as the electrolyte, and when this happens to be water, hydrogen gas is found to gather round the negative pole, and oxygen round the positive pole. When the electrolyte is an organic fimd, such as blood, small quantities of strong alkali are found round the negative pole, and small quantities of strong acid round the positive pole. These minute quantities of acids and alkahes produce their characteristic effects upon the tissues, but have never been found carried into the general circulation. . It is to this their local action, especially that of the negative po e, that T. Duncan attributes the benefit of electrolysis for vascular tumours and goitre, while the destructive effect of the negative pole has also been recommended for the dissoluUon of urethral and other The cases in ordinary practice, for which (accordmg to J. Duncan) electrolysis is best suited, are—subcutaneous nsevi on exposed parts of the body, where therefore a scar is undesirable, cirsoid aneurisms, and intra-thoiacic sacculated aneurisms not amenable to other treat- ment. The same authority has also obtained good results in many cases of goitre. , The methods employed are similar in the above cases. The battery should consist of from three to six large cells, such •Although their relative posiuon will vary slightly in different individu^s still with a'^few trials they .w'^U soon be fo.md at or -.^x^r^- '^^tBlk o/ are indicated in the following diagrams .n L^^ois & f'i'^''°8^^^^7,f Human fhynology, 4th Edition, vu.:-F.gs. 505, 5o6, 507. 5o8, and 5". » see.as Eunsen's for hospital work, or large Grenet cells, or of a similar number of groups of smaller cells. Duncan generally uses from 40 to So milliamperes of current, but since he advises the operator to be guided by the touch as the process proceeds rather than by the amount of current passing, he does not consider the galvanometer of any use except perhaps for sacculated aneurisms, where palpation is more difScult. The needles should be insulated with vulcanite to witliin a short distance of their point, depending on the size of the nasvus, and both should be thrust into the tumour or aneurism. Although the positive-pole needle, if made of steel, will be attacked by the acids which it sets free, the resulting salts are non-poisonous, and the needle can be easily re-sharpened. However, gold or platinum can be used for the positive needle, if so desired. Mode of Procedure, say for a nfevus, cirsoid aneurism, or goitre. The patient, especially if a child, is to be anssthetised. The skin over and round the nzevus is first cleansed and purified. The needles, unattached to the battery as yet, are then thrust through the skin an inch or two from the iisevus, and are pushed subcutaneously into its substance, so that at the first sitting the deeper parts are chiefly attacked. As soon as the needles are placed in position they are connected with the battery, and the process begins. Soon a soft coagulum and crepitation from bubbles of hydrogen gas are perceptible round the negative-pole needle, while a firm hard coagulum is felt to form more slowly round the positive-pole needle. The latter is allowed to remain for the most part in one place, while the negative needle is moved from place to place as the desired effect is produced in each. During these subcutaneous alterations in position, the non-insulated part of the needle must not be allowed to reach the aperture in the skin. An entire coagulation to about the size of a walnut is sufiicient for any single sitting. Care should be taken to prevent the cauterising effect from penetrating the skin to the surface. From twenty to thirty minutes is sufficient for one sitting. To obviate bleeding from the needle-punctures, the current should be maintained while they are being slowly withdrawn, so that a coagulum may block their track. Either needle, as soon as its non-insulated part reaches the skin, should be entirely withdrawn, and its aperture at once covered with collodion and wool. The other needle having been withdrawn and its aperture similarly dealt with, the whole of the surface of the part electrolysed should be covered with cotton wool and collodion, and be left alone for a fortnight or three weeks. For the Galvano-Cautery platinwn wire point or loop, a battery like that for electrolysis is required. Platinum is selected because It can be heated and cooled again any number of times without becoming oxidised, and because its fusing-point is so high. A current too strong to pass easily is sent through the wire, and heats It m proportion to the resistance which the wire, in virtue of small cross-section, offers. With either loop or point, a non- conducting handle is supplied, provided with a trigger whichcan be pressed with the foiefinc;er so as to turn on or off the current. For lighting the interior of the Ijladder or urethra, with the endoscope or urethroscope, small incandescent lamps with carbon filaments are employed. Failing a reliable storage battery, such as that issued by the Lithanode Company, a " Schall's 6-cell chrom- sulphuric plunge battery" is recommended by Fenwick,* fitted with a rheostat, which he considers indispensable, or a rheostat may be intercalated in the current from the main. * " The Electric Illumination of the Bladder and Urethra," i88q, which see for further particulars.JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. lO)-] CHAPTER XXI. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. Contents. — Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest — Local Sources ot Irritation obviated by Rest—General principles of Treatment by Fixation, Extension, and Venous Congestion—Treatment of Cold or Tubercular Abscess—(A.) Treatment of Special Joints:— (i) The Hip-joint—(2) Knee-joint—(3) Ankle-and Tarsal-joints— (4) Shoulder—(5) Elbow-joint. Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest.—In certain chronic diseases of the joints—of the type known as strumous or tubercular—the appropriate treatment in the early stage seems chiefly to be pro- longed rest. The tubercle bacillus, though associated with, and probably the cause of, these chronic inflammations, may often be destroyed by the tissues under the conditions of improvement of the patient's general health, and rest to the affected part, aided by counter irritation, by venous congestion of the part (Bier's method), ana by the local injection of iodoform.* The rest, to be efficient, must be complete and prolonged for weeks, months, or even years— so long, in fact, as signs of disease continue, and for weeks after they have disappeared. Although in most of our General Hospitals, patients suffering from these chronic joint diseases may not be re- tained dvuring the whole period necessary for their treatment, still the time allowed is often sufficient for improvement to begin, after the careful application of the immobilising apparatus which is necessary to complete the cure at home. Local Sources of Irrilation obviated by Rest.—The local sources of irritation to an inflamed joint which are obviated by ensuring its perfect rest, are:— (1) Voluntary Movements.—These cause friction of the synovial and cartilaginous surfaces within, and of the fascia and tendons around the joint, besides compression of the joint-surfaces by the necessary muscular action. (2) Muscular Spasm.—This indeed limits movement, and fixes the joint in the position of greatest ease; but continuous muscular action is involved, which helps to cause rapid muscular wasting, and continuous compression of joint-surfaces. (3) Transmission of Body-Weight (in spine and lower limb), which, besides involving compression of articular surfaces and of bones, necessitates, reflexly, some action of surrounding muscles, however rigidly the joint may seem to be steadied. Joint rest is obtained by (a.) Absolute fixation, which not only obviates the first, but also the second source of irritation, for when a joint is steadied in its position of greatest ease without the muscles, they, being no longer needed, relax. As a result, joint-compression * For a full discussion of the subject of Iodoform injection, see " Translation of Henle'i Account of Mikulicz's Conservative Treatment of Tubercular Joints " Published by E. (fc S. Livingstone, Edinburgh.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. is relieved, the inflammation subsides, and a return to the natural position of the joint is soon possible. [b.) Extension.—This is specially called for in acute and subacute cases, and to be efficient the extension must not tend to directly undo any deformity that may exist (Marsh). This caution is especially necessary where there is acute distention of the synovial membrane, or where there is disease of the bone or articular surface. To prevent the evils attendant on bearing weight, the patient must either be kept in bed, or be supplied with an immobilising apparatus, which takes the body-weight off the affected joint. The latter method is preferable in the less advanced chronic cases, since it allows the patient to enjoy some open-air exercise ; the former is necessary in acute or in severe chronic cases. In subacute and chronic tubercular cases Thomas latterly reduced the deformity rapidly by bandaging the limb into his hip-splint, kept straight, and by tightening the bandage as soon as it became slack. Robert Jones, who continues the practice and methods of the late Mr. Thomas, holds that " the lumbar spine readily curves when there is flexion at the hip sufficiently to allow the limb to be brought down to the splint when there is as much deformity as fifty degrees; but if the deformity be very great, as much, perhaps, as ninety degrees, it may be necessary to bend the splint just enough to get the limb in contact with it when the fullest possible lordosis has been obtained." It is probable that the cases which permit of this direct reduction of deformity will be chiefly chronic and sub- acute affections of the synovial membrane. It is well to note that when a joint has to be kept absolutely quiet, other joints must also be fixed whose muscles either pass over the affected one, or are in co-ordination with its movements. Thus, in bad cases, the knee should be fixed with the hip, the ankle with the knee, and the elbow and the hand with the shoulder. Bier's Method.—Passive venous congestion has been introduced by Bier of Bonn for the treatment of tuberculous joints and testicle. It is based on the rarity with which lungs, congested because of chronic heart disease, are attacked by tubercle. For all joints below the hip and shoulder the method is as follows :—Above the joint a piece of elastic webbing bandage is wound round the limb, sufficiently tight to produce a distinct bluish-red discoloration of the parts below. It Martin's solid rubber bandage is used, the skin is protected by a few turns of ordinary bandage or of lint. The congestion should be kept up for one or two hours out of the twenty-four for several months. It is well to restrict the degree of congestion to that which can be comfortably borne. The position of the constricting bandage should be altered from day to day. A watch must be maintained to recognise early foci of suppuration, which are to be treated by puncture and injection of iodoform emulsion. Treatment of Cold or Tubercular Abscess with Iodoform 'KraxilsioVL.—Apparatus required.—A fine trochar and canula, with small syringe to fit the latter, or a large-sized serum syringe and hollow needle. These must be purified by boiling or by soakmg in 1-20 carbolic lotion. A few ounces of a lO per cent, emulsion ofJOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED AFFAKAI U^. 199 iodoform in glycerine (this does not require to be sterilised). Some bicyanide gauze or sublimated wool, and a bandage. The operator's hands and^the skin over and round the abscess must be purified. The puncture must be made through sound skin, and the course of the needle should be oblique. The contents of the abscess having been partially evacuated, the iodoform emulsion is injected. A pad is laid over the point of puncture as the needle is withdrawn, and is held in position with the bandage while a slight pressure is main- tained over the abscess cavity. The quantity injected will vary from 10 cc. (2^ drachms) to 100 cc. (3i ounces), according to the size of the abscess and the age of the patient. iV..5.—Had the abscess cavity been previously scraped out the larger doses would be dangerous. The abscess first increases after the injection and then contracts. A second injection, if needed at all, is not required for six weeks. For parenchymatous injec/ioti smaller quantities must be used as absorption is greater. For small children the maximum quantity at one sitting is 4 cc. (i drachm), for adults 30 cc. (8 drachms). A. Treatment of Special Joints. (I) The Hip-joint—(a.) By Thomas's Hip-splini.-'Th^ hip may be fixed by Thomas's hip-splint in all cases where fixation is needed, whether the patient be going about, or be confined to bed. The splint may be applied to the hip at any an^de, and this may be altered as required. One great advantage claimed for this sphnt by its inventor is, that surgeons at a distance from large centres can with its aid treat their patients at home " with no more mechanical assistance than can be rendered by the village blacksmith and saddler, and the poorer class of suft'erers will, at a small cost, be assisted as effectually as the wealthier classes."—Thomas. The following description* will serve to explain the apparatus and its mode of application :— The Splint consists of an upright bar or stem of flat malleable iron moulded to the body, and furnished with three transverse pieces or crescent " wings," to grasp respectively the chest, the thigh, and the leg (Figs. 140 and 141). The upright "should extend from the lower angle of the shoulder-blade, in a perpen- dicular line downwards over the lumbar region, across the pelvis slightly external, but close to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the prominence of the buttock, along the course of the sciatic nerve to a point slightly internal to the centre of the extremity of the calf of the leg."—Thomas. The material should be the best malleable iron. According to Jones the upright should be x | in. in breadth and thickness for an adult of 6 feet; for one of about S feet 6 inches it should be 'i X -ir. in. ; for a boy of ten years of age, | x ^ in. ; for a child * Taken partly from Thomas'.? own book and from conversations with himself, partly from an article on the uses and application of the splint by Jones, in the British Medical Journal for Oct. i, 1887.2 or 3 inches before being brought back to its former direction. of five years of age, ^ x ^ in. ; for one of two years, i x in. The wings should be of the same width, and about a third of the thickness of the body wings. Fig. 140.—Thomas's Hip-joint Fig. 141.—Thomas's Hip-joint Splint Splint applied for a convales- applied for a convalescent patient cent patient {after Thomas). (after Thomas). N.B.—The walking splint differs from the bed splint in coming down only to the lower part of the thigh ; in being somewhat stronger, and in having its lowest cross-bar longer (see Fig. 143). Unless where there is marked deformity, the first moulding of the upright is to be made from the sound side ; and for this purpose the patient is made to stand upright, the affected limb being raised by supports until the pelvis is horizontal. For ordinary subacute and chronic cases the trunk and lower-limb portions of the upright bar are each quite straight and parallel to one another, only not on the same plane. At the level of the buttock the Ijar is rounded forwards at an angle of about 145° forThus the plane of the lower part will be about I inch or inch in front of that of the upper part (Fig. 142). For acute cases with Fig 142.—Diagram of Thomas's Hip Splint, side view, to show the bend on the upright and the position of the wings (after Thomas). distinct angular deformity, the upper and lower portions of the splint must be kept at an angle so as to fit the patient's abnormal position. As the acute stage subsides, the splint may be gradually straightened. Position of Cross-pieces.—The upper end of the main stem is forged flat and bent over the chest-band, and the two are made fast by a single rivet. The calf-band is fixed to the lower end of the main stem in the same way, and the thigh-band, '' being placed on the surface of the main stem next to the patient, is joined to it by one rivet at a point about i inch below the lower bend " (Jones). (See Figs. 140, 141, and 143.) Length of Cross-pieces. — Each cross-piece should be long enough to embrace more than two-thirds of the patient's trunk, thigh, and leg respectively. In practice, Thomas re- commends the top cross-piece to be 2 inches less than the full length of the vertical bar, the mid cross-piece to be about inch more than half the length of the vertical bar, and the bottom cross-piece to be two-thirds of the length of the mid cross-piece. In the walking splint, however, the lowest cross-piece is equal in length to the mid-piece. Mode of Attachment of the Cross-pieces.— For hospital practice each cross-bar is riveted at its middle point to tne upright bar. Thus the splint as it leaves the blacksmith's hands is adaptable to either side of the body. When the splint is made for a special case, the inain stem is fixed to the chest band on one side of the middle line—z.^., towards the diseased side, because the mam stem lies on this side of the patient's chest. The surgeon with his wrenches only requires to give a slight rotation to the °" "^^'^ gi^^" above the buttock bend, and has the effect of making the upper or trunk portion of the vertical bar look obliquely towards the opposite side, while the lower part looks straight forward. Thus for a left splint, the upper part of the vertical bar will look obliquely towards the right, and vice versd. Fig. 143.—Thomas's Walking Hip Splint applied.202 In adapting the sphnt after its application, a rotatory tendency to any particular side is to be met by opening out the portions of the cross-pieces on the same side, and bending in those on the opposite side—i.e., if there is rotation towards the right, relax the right parts and tighten in the left parts of the cross-pieces. A bandage on the leg and thigh, applied in a direction contrary to that of the rotation, is also recommended for keeping the splint in its place. These directions apply to the fitting of splints to patients in whom there is no deformity other than that of flexion. Where there is also adduction or abduction an additional half wing should be fixed on to the upright bar between the level of the patient's iliac crest and last rib. For adduction, this wing will be on the same side as the disease, for abduction, on the opposite side. Where the extra wing cannot be obtained, one-half of the top cross-piece may be bent downwards instead. Sometimes children whose condition requires rest in bed, try to get up and walk, when they are not being watched. To prevent harm from this, Thomas fixes on his "nurse," consisting of a piece of iron screwed on to the lower end of the upright, so to project below the foot, and make walking more difficult and less harmful. I n When the more acute symptoms have subsided, 1 ' l|j and the patient is deemed well enough to be out of bed, the boot on the sound side is raised on a patten, and crutches are provided. The affected leg thus hangs, and extends the hip-joint by its weight. Owing to the artificial rigidity of the hip- joint, the patient cannot easily sit, and prefers either to stand or to lie. Where a patient suffers from double disease, or where there is marked deformity, a double splint is recommended. The distance between the two uprights will then be i inch more than the interval between the two posterior superior spines. A cross-bar joining the two uprights, just above the lowest cross-pieces, will add much to the strength of the double sphnt. This cannot, however, be easily applied when the two hip-joints are at markedly different angles. Thomas urges surgeons to learn how to mould the splints to fit the patient, and figures wrenches made by the Lowel Wrench Company, Mass., U.S.A., which he uses for the purpose (Fig. 144)- ^wo are needed. The surgeon when he has seen that the blacksmith has nghtly made the general proportions of the splint, sends it to the saddler to be padded with a single layer of boiler-felt (No. I, t.c, about i mch in thickness), and covered with basil leather. Fig. 144. Wrench {flfter Thomas). IJOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 203 The ends of the body-crescent are to be united by a strap fixed to one side, and buckling or buttoning on to the other. A brace over the shoulder of the sound side supports the splint This brace and the secondary straps to steady it are illustrated in the diagrams (see Figs. 140, 141). For his poorer patients Thomas used a simpler plan. Each end of the uppermost cross-piece terminates in a hole about half an inch in diameter. The middle of a Diece of bandage is passed below the upper cross-piece, where it is attached behind to the upright bar. The ends of the bandage, after having been twisted together for a short distance above the splint, are brought over the patient's shoulders, and are passed through the holes in the upper cross-piece before being tied together. Thus the bandage fulfils the double purpose of keeping the splint up, and fixing together the ends of the cross-piece. The thigh and leg may be either bandaged to the corresponding part of the splint, or be fixed there with shields similar to those described for the knee-splint. Figs. 140, 141, and 143, after Thomas, illustrate the application of the splint. [b.) By Extension.—V<rhe.Yi it is decided to apply Extension, the patient must be kept in bed, lying on a firm mattress. The first thing to do is to see what position the thigh assumes when the patient's pelvis is made to lie even—i.e., when the line joining the two anterior superior spines is at right angles to the axis of the trunk, and when the lumbar region of the spine rests against the bed. Whether the position of the femur be one of flexion and adduction, flexion and abduction, simple flexion, or without defor- mity at all, it is the one in the line of which traction is to be at first made. _ Where there is marked flexion, the lower limb must be raised either on pillows or on an inclined plane. One objection to the inclined plane is the necessity of extending the knee while the thigh is flexed; but inconvenience from this results only when the flexion is great. Where abduction is combined with flexion, the inclined plane lies by the side of the other limb. Where there is adduction, the inclined plane should be arched to allow the sound hmb to pass under it. Should the patient be restless, a long splint may be applied to the sound side. The plan of raising the affected limb on pillows is simple and often effective, but may fail to ensure sufficient steadiness. Having made provision for supporting the leg, the surgeon must next adjust weight and pulley at the proper level. After the foot of the bed has been raised (on blocks, &c.) to allow' the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force, the pulley must be fixed. Por this purpose an apparatus may either be attached to the bed or be independent and stand separate. In either case it must be movable—not only up and down, but also laterally, as may be required. (a.) In the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, an apparatus, easily204 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. apijlied to the bars of a crib, is used in some wards. It is said to have been introduced from Liverpool (Fig. 145). (b.) In others, an upright bearing the pulley is lashed to the bed, or fits into a scaffold which hooks on to the end of the bed. The scaffold can be moved laterally, and the upright raised as desired by adjusting iron pins (Fig. 146). (c.) Marsh figures in his work on Diseases of Joints a simple stand, with a projecting arm, which can be moved up and down as required. To the projecting arm the pulley for the extending cord is fixed. Other apparatus, probably equally simple and effective, might easily be devised. (a".) Where the child is laid in a crib with long uprights, the pulley may be made of an empty cotton reel, running on a pencil or penholder, made fast to two bars at the proper level, or suspended from above. Fig. 145.—Attachment for weight and puUey. Materials for Extension. —For applying extension we require strong mole^^kin plaster, broad tape, scissors, stout needle aad thread cotton bandages, and a piece of wood a little longer than the breadth between the malleoli, or a square of wood of these dimensions with a hole in the middle, and having short straps and buckles nailed to any two of the opposite sides (see Fig. 145)- Bricks or wooden blocks 3 or 4 inches high, on which to raise the bed are dso needed, and a weight, either in the form of a bag to be filled with sand o^ shot, or in that of J-lb. or i-lb. masses of lead or iron, bored in the centre for convenience in takmg off or putting on The plaster strips (one for each side of the leg) must be long enoughto extend from bevond the foot to the middle of the thigh, and l)e as broad above as about half the circumference of the limb. They Fig. 146.—Extension with weight and pulley applied. may be cut from one rectangular piece (as shown in Fig. 147). or each may be rectangular, with the edges of the lower part folded in, to give greater security to the tapes which are sewn to it (Fig. T48). T 1 1—1 1 r -J I I I I Fig. 147.—Two-plastered cut from Fig. 148.—Single plaster from rectangular rectangular piece. piece. Snips at the margin permit more accurate fitting of the plaster to the limb. Mode of applying Extension. —When everything is ready, begin byshaving off hairs. Then with a cotton bandage make a few turns round the ankle, to protect the malleoh. Next heat the plaster- strips, apply them evenly to the limb, making additional snips where necessary, and cover the whole with the roller-bandage. At the upper end, turn down a few inches of the plaster so that the sticky side presents to the bandage ; this helps to give greater security. Another method of avoiding trouble with hairs is to carry up the leg a layer of bandage, to which, and not to the skin, the plaster is applied, the whole being fixed by a second layer of bandage. When the plaster is secure, fasten the tapes to the buckles which are fixed to the square of wood below. Next pass a strong cord through the hole in the wood, and knot it to prevent its slipping out. The other end goes over the pulley, and carries the weight. * Place the limb now in the desired position, supporting it with pillows, or on an inclined plane; adjust the pulley, and attach the weight. The amount of weight for a child of five or six years of age should be 3 or 4 lbs., and more in proportion for an adult. It is best, in all cases, to begin with a light weight and gradually increase it, till the muscles are relaxed and the patient feels comfortable. The plaster is carried above the knee, to prevent the ligaments of the knee from being relaxed by the continuous extension. As a general rule, children in hospitals lie very quietly and make no efforts to get up. Should they be restless, besides a long splint applied to the sound limh, the following chest-band maybe used:—"The chest- band consists of a piece of webbing, passing across the front of the chest and ending in two loops, through which the two arms are passed, and through which is threaded another piece of stout webbing, which runs transversely across the surface of the bed, under the child's shoulders, and is fastened at its two ends to the sides of the bedstead " (Marsh). In some cases, where distortion is not an obstacle, fixity of the hip-joint may be attained by the single or by the double long splint, extension being produced either by the perinreal band and foot- extension, or by the weight and pulley. (2) The Knee-joint.—The principles of treatment which have been discussed for the hip-joint apply equally to the knee, where they are more easily carried out, owing to the greater accessibility of the joint. When left to itself in a state of strumous disease, wherever this has begun, the knee-joint tends to become more and more flexed, till in some cases, it can flex no more. The lateral and crucial ligaments are at first softened so as to allow the tibia to be gradually dislocated backwards and rotated outwards by the flexor tendons, but, if the disease subsides, they contract and oppose the return of the bone to its old position. The primary cause of the-de- formity is therefore muscular. On the other hand, the deformity wliich occurs in acute synovitis, depends mainly on mechanical dis- • The object of the wood is to keep the tapes from pressing unduly on the malleoli. A simpler way than the above is to unite the two tapes below the foot to the ends of a piece of stick, and extend by fixing to the centre of the stick fc cord which carries the weight.go 7 or 8 inches above and below the knee, and an inch or two Fig. 149.^Extension applied to a flexed knee. tension of the capsule by effused fluid. The joint assumes the position of greatest capacity of the membrane, which is that of slight flexion. Although anchylosis of a joint is always a disadvantage, there is in every joint a position in which anchylosis is least disadvantageous, and there are some joints in which anchylosis is less of an evil than it is in others. Those which can, so to speak, best permit of an- chylosis are the Knee, and—owing to the great mobility of the Scapula - the Shoul- der. The knee, when anchylosed, should be slightly flexed; if quite straight, it is apt to be in the way, while not more use- ful ; if much bent, it is a useless encum- brance. Hence, and also because slight flexion is the natural position of repose of all joints, we should fix diseased knee- joints in this position, or gradually bring them back to it, if they have already left it. Reduction of too great Flexion—{a.) By Fixation and Extension. —In reducing too great flexion of the knee, the same means must be taken as were indicated for the hip. Whether fixation or extension be employed, the deformity in acute cases must be respected in the first instance, and no effort made to overcome it until irritation and muscular spasm have subsided. Hence, instead of extending the limb by weight and pulley towards the laottom of the bed, the sur- geon should first support the thigh, so that the downward line of traction on the tibia is in the line of the deformity (Fig. 149). By degrees, as irritation subsides, the line of traction may be more and more altered until it comes to correspond with the axis of the thigh [Marsh). (b.) By Lateral Splints.—Where there is no great deformity, some surgeons prefer well-padded lateral poroplastic, pasteboard or leather splints. In order to limit movement it is not always necessary to shape the splints quite accurately—a broad, straight strip down each side is often enough, if well bandaged (Fig. 150) ; but if the greatest rigidity is needed, the side-splints must be cut to the shape of the bent knee, and made to extend from the ankle to the hip. A simple way is to take a doubled piece of paper, long enough to wider than half the circumference of the thigh. Place the limb Fig. 150.—Straight pasteboard splint for knee.in tlie desired position ; lay the edge of the up])er half of the paper along the line of the thigh, and cut the lower half of the paper to correspond with the line of the leg. This gives the anterior edge of the splint; the posterior edge can easily be trimmed nearly parallel to it at a distance equal to half the circumference of the I'mb (Fig. 151). When the halves are opened out, the pattern for each side will be ready. After the millboards have been cut to the required size, each half must be softened by pouring boiling water first Fig. 151.—Pattern for l.ncrai on one side and then on the other. Tear pasteboard splints, the edges thin to make them lie evenly, and make slight transverse tears at the bend of the knee. Then, having padded the limb well, bandage on the splint, and let it dry in posi- tion, or, having removed it carefully while in the soft state, dry it at the fire. Poroplastic Felt, when used, requires to be softened belore the fire or over the gas before being applied. Undressed Ccnvhide may also be used. It has to be softened by soaking in cold water before being moulded to the part. (c.) By a Posterior Splint of metal, Gooch, or straight wood, reaching from the top of the thigh to the calf of the leg, and especially well padded behind the knee. (d.) By Thomas's Knee-splint.—For all cases of strumous knee- joint disease, unless where there is very marked flexion, there is no better splint than Thomas's Knee-splint. The objects of its in- ventor are to ensure immobility without external compression of the joint, and in suitable cases to permit of out-of-doors locomotion for the patient without allowing the joint to bear much weight. The mechanism of the splint is extremely simple (Fig. 152). Two light iron bars pass up the sides of the leg. Above they are fixed to a padded iron ring (Fig. 153), on which the patient sits when erect ; and below they end in an ovoid ring (Fig. 154, b), which rests on the ground beyond the foot. * Pieces of leather between the bars support the leg and thigh behind. The limb, after being placed in * Latterly Thomas introduced for synovial joint disease, a " caliper " ending to the knee-splint, instead of the ovoid rin^. In this arrangement, the lower ends of the vertical bars are bent abruptly in towards one another just below the patient's heel, and are cut off short so that they may fit into a piece of brass tubing, which is sufficiently long to make the vertical bars clear the malleoli. This tube is let into the heel of the boot, by boring a hole for it in children, but in adults by cutting out a slot for it so as to allow of some rotation in walking. The upper leather must be sht in front down to the toes, and the heel part of the "upper" leather must at the same time be cut down the middle and latterly at Its attachment to the heel, otherwise the patient's heel will be unduly pressed upon The patient's heel is kept about an inch above the heel of his boot, and his weight is distributed between the splint and the balls of his toes. The sole of the boot on the sound side is thickened to equalise the length of the limbs. For patients confined to bed the staple endmg (Fig. 154, a) is required. 'The former method of ending the splint with the patten for the foot of the sound limb (Fig. 155), was latterly used by Thomas only for ankle-joint disease. In such cases a posterior splint to fix the ankle was also used. (Fig. 158).JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED AFFAKAFUS. 200 position, can be easily fastened to the splint by bandages above and below the knee. A patten on the boot of the sound side makes both limbs equal (Fig. 156). The inventor, intending that this splint also should be made by any blacksmith and saddler, has given minute directions for its con- struction :— The splints are to be made out 01 three sizes of best round bar iron, i.e., 5 inch thick for patients up to 4 years old ; inch thick for patients between 4 and 8 years old ; f inch thick for patients from 8 years old onwards. 153.—Padded Ring—a. For Bed Splint. b. For Walking Splint. INNER STEM OUTER STEM Fig. 152. —Thomas's Caliper Knee-splint. Fig. 154.—(a.) Staple ending. (3.) Ring ending for Thomas's Knee - splint (after Thomas). Fig. 155.—Angle of Ring on Stems. The shape of the upper or groin-ring Thomas latterly made differently for bed and for walking splints. Thus the ring of the bed splint was symmetrically ovoid, and the vertical bars were atUched midway from front to back at the out- and in-side (Fig. 153, a). For the walking splint the ring was flattened in front and on the inside, and bulged at the posterior and inner side, where the Lschial tuberosity is situated. The vertical bars are also attached much nearer the front than the back (Fig. 153, b). The posterior part of the ring was also made slightly concave upwards. Thomas 142IO gave no reason for these directions. The upper ring is set by the blacksmith at an angle of 120° with the inner stem (Fig. 155). The padding is made thicker on the inside than on the outside of the ring, but the angle has been fixed upon to allow of this. Jones now recommends the unsymmetrical ring for all cases; he describes the slope between the plane of the ring and the inner bar as forming an angle of 135°, and advises also an antero-posterior slope, so that the ischial bulge of the ring forms its lowest point. Fig. 156.—Thomas's Knee-splint applied—a. Original pattern, seldom used now except for ankle disease, b. and c. Front and back views of Caliper ended Splint with improved method of fixing. If looked at from the inner side the anterior part of the ring would thus be set at an angle of 145° with the anterior surface of the inner bar. fixtm; the Splint in Position.—Tht long leather apron between the vertical bars for the limb to rest on, and the method of fixing the limb to the splint with a bandage, had latterly been given up byThomas. He used instead between the bars two pieces of leather, each about 2^ inches wide. One is placed so as to support the back of the calf, while the other comes behind the lower end of the thigh. After the splint has been placed in position with the ring encircling the thigh at the groin, the limb is fixed to it at two points only—i.e., just above and just below the knee. A well- padded shield of block tin or zinc is laid over the limb at these points, and is then fastened backwards by a loop of bandage, which passes round the vertical bars on each side. The shield is per- forated in two places to allow the bandage to pass through it (Fig. 157)- BARS b Fig. 157. —Diagrams to illustrate Thomas's latest mode of fixing his Knee-splint—a. Side view showing the position of the shields in front and leather straps behind (after TJwnias). b. Sectional view showing how the shields are fastened. The splint is prevented from slipping down by a strap and buckle over the opposite shoulder. If the knee be bent when the Thomas knee-splint is being at first used, and if it be thought advisable to overcome the deformity directly, the posterior piece of leather behind the knee might be omitted. The anterior pressure strap above and below the knee would be gradually tightened till the leg became straight. In attempting this, however, it must be remembered that the tibia212 has to slide forwards on the condyles of the femur as the two bones come into line. Consequently if this sliding movement is resisted by adhesions, &c., while the straightening process is continued, the posterior part of the tibial articular surface will leave the femur, and the tibia will be forced into a plane parallel with that in which the femur lies, but posterior to it ; as if, in fact, there had been a partial dislocation of the tibia backwards in the straight position. Gradual straightening, preceded by extension in the line of the deformity, would obviate this ; and even with a Thomas splint, the tendency to dislocation would be less if the backward straightening pressure were applied to the femur only. Materials for covering and padding are the same for the knee as for the hip-splint—/.tf., basil leather for covering the splint and for supporting the leg and thigh, and No. i boiler felt for paddmg with. When there is unusually great swelling of the knee, the mner bar may require to be bent inwards, so that it may not press upon the swelling. When the thigh ring cannot pass the knee, owinfT to its being swollen, the ring may be cut or sawn through, opened out, and, after it has been passed over the knee, bent m again with a wrench. Thomas's Knee-splint has been used for fractures and other con- ditions besides those of knee- joint disease. Extension, when required, can be applied to the foot by means of the lower staple (Fig. 154, a). (3) The Ankle- and Tarsal- jolnts. — For the ankle- or tarsal-joints lateral pasteboard or leather splints vviH ensure fixity and compression. The foot must not, however, be put to the ground. [a.) In many cases Knee-splint, with a foot-splint to steady the ankle, will be found useful. He used it constantly for this purpose. (b.) Tlwmas " Crab"-splint for the A nkle. —This consists of a piece of sheet iron bent hol- low (Fig. 158), so as to fit the upper two-thirds of the calf of the leg. " To this is riveted a bar of flat iron 4 x y',,, or such size as will hold the part firmly, and it is bent to approximately follow the outline of the back Fig. 158.- -IhoiiKih " Crab"-splint for the Ankle. of the ankle and heel, and the middle of the sole of the foot" Uon^\ A the level of the ball of the toes and of the pomt of the heel ire fixed cross pieces sufficiently pliable to be bent w.th the fingers, andwhich nearly encircle the foot in the one case and extend to the tip of the malleoli in the other. With sticking-plaster and a bandage the leg and foot can then be made secure to the splint after it has been padded with wool or leather (/ones). ic ) (Jawfc-t;':; OT^/Zwrf of cutting lateral pasteboard splmts for the ankle is both simple and economical of material. It may be described as follows:—Take a rectangular piece of mill-board,* which measures in length from the knee (above or below as required) to the middle of the sole of the heel, and half the circumference ___ of the foot at the instep, more; and in breadth is equal to the circumference of 1 the leg at the ankle. Along the middle of | I— this, lay a line which extends to within jjg.—Pattem for paste- half the circumference of the foot from the board .splints for foot, ends ; and from the extremities of this line, draw others at right angles to it, each running in an opposite direction to the other. The pattern of the two splints will now be complete isee Fig. 159). With a penknife make cuts in the board along the lines, and, by bending, break off the two pieces, which can be softened and applied in the usual way. [d.) When the toot has to be fixed while room is left for dressings at the ankle, a wire-splint should be made to fit the calf of the leg, and support the bones of the leg well. To this a foot-piece is attached, but bulging laterally or posteriorly to give room for dressings at the ankle. The foot is rixed to the foot-piece by figure-of-eight turns passing under the heel, which has been previously well-padded. The leg can be easily secured to the leg-piece by turns of a bandage. [e.) In Esmarclis iron "stirrup-splint," the leg-part fits on to the front of the leg, and the connecting rod of strong iron arches over the dorsum of the foot to the sole-piece (Fig. 160). (/.) Volkman's anterior wooden splint is similar in principle (Fig. 161). Macintyre's splint (see Fig. 120) may also be used for some cases. ^4) The Shoulder-joint can only be completely controlled when the whole arm with the hand is fixed. The simplest way is to put * Gamgee advised the use of that which had not been finally pressed. Fig. 160.—Esmarch's stirrup- splint. Fig. 161.—Volkman's anterior wooden splint.a good layer o( cotton-wool next the skin of the trunk, and bandage the arm to the side—the hand being placed on the opposite breast When additional steadiness is required, a shoulder-cap of paste- board or poroplastic felt must be fitted to the shoulder, and bandaged in position. It must be shaped as shown in the diagram (Fig. 92). ^ (5) The Elbow-joint.—When absolute rest is required, the hand and fingers should be fixed as well as the elbow, for not only is the whole elbow-joint more or less involved in pronation and supination, but since the flexors and extensors of the fingers arise near the elbow-joint and pass across it, their contraction must involve some stimulation of the parts near the joint, as well as excite it by movement. A rectangular splint is the form most usually chosen. It may be of wood, of which a set of different sizes may be kept ready vnth advantage. Many, however, prefer to cut the splints, as wanted, from paste-board or poroplastic felt. The following is a simple method of doing this :— Cut out a square of paper, viath the sides equal to the distance from the acromion process to the point of the elbow 'Fig. 162). A D F P O E Fig. 162.—Pattern for paste- Fig. 163.—Jones's Elbow-splint, board Arm-splint. Measure off A D, equal to half the circumference of the upper-arm, and D F, C E, and E G equal to half the circumference of the wrist. Draw DO, E O : F P, G P parallel to the sides, and cut out the pieces so marked out. These splints have next to be fitted to the arm. The larger one fits on the outside of the arm and shoulder, AD being at the acromion. The inner splint is reversed, G E being in the axilla, and D F on the fore-arm. If these paper splints seem suitable, copies of them are to be cut in pasteboard or poroplastic felt, and after having been softened applied to the limb. When, along with fixation, the elbow is to be left free for the application of dressings, some form of bridge splint must be used, such as that advocated by Robert Jones of Liverpool (Fig. 163). Thomas's method of fixing the elbow consisted in flexing the fore-arm acutely and tying the hand up to the front of the neck. He fastened a band round the wrist, and another round the neck, and drew them together till the angle between the thumb and the index finger lay against the front of the neck.JOlNT-FIXAllUiM Aiyjy CHAPTER XXII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS— Contents —B. Tie Spinal Column—General Treatment—Caution !— Artificial Supports in Spinal Disease-(i) Methods for ensuring Ri<ridity and Support to the Spine - The Plaster-jacket- (a'S Objections to its use considered-(*.) Materials for making the Iacket--{f.) Methods of Application-(2) Methods of ensuring Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries—The " Jury-mast — Pneumatic and other Special Collars, &c. B. The Spinal Colmnn. In acute cases, especially where accompanied with considerable pain, patients suffering from disease of the spmal column should be treated in bed, as this is the only way of giving complete rest to the spine. Extension by weight and pulley is often of service. Professor Chiene advises that— r i j i. u v.„ When the lumbar region is affected, the foot of the bed should be raised, and extension plasters applied to both legs. _ v ,j v When the mischief is in the cervical region, extension should be applied to the patient's head, while the same end of the bed is raised to allow the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force. The patient's head in this case must rest on a low pillow, and be steadied laterally by sand bags. , , ^ When the mid-dorsal region is affected, the bed may be kept horizontal, and extension applied to the patient's legs and head. Extension-plasters may be fixed to the legs in the usual way ; to the head, the apparatus may be fixed to a cap fastened round the forehead and below the occiput, and, if need be, secured below the "^'^Fleming of Glasgow recommends an apparatus for carrying out spinal extension, which Hilliard, Instrument - maker, patented. Attachment to the head is taken from a strap passing below the occiput and above the eyebrows. Just above the ears two side straps lead up from this to an elastic cord fixed to the head of the bed. Instead of drawing on the legs, Mr. Hilliard extends down- wards from the pelvis—from the back of a belt fixed above the crests of the ilium. This method allows of more turning in bed than Professor Chiene's, but increased mobility is a disadvantage. /—When the di.sea.se involves the first two cervicalvertebra the risk is greater, because of the importance of the corresponding part of the spinal cord, should it become involved ; and because of the probability of the ligaments which keep the odontoid process in position becoming softened—in which case, at any moment, instant death may be caused by the compression of the cord against the odontoid process, as the head is dislocated forwards. It is generally considered safe, when disease in this part of the spinal column has been diagnosed, to recommend at first rest in the horizontal (supine) position, the head being steadied as above, whether extension also be deemed necessary or not. Afterwards, lome efficient head- and neck-splint, such as will be presently described, should be used. Benefit of Artificial Supports for Spinal Disease.—It is well to recognise that there are four possible ways in which supports may act beneficially while the patient is going about. (1) By preventing movements. This seems to be one of the most important, because it must necessarily involve (2) Prevention of fuitlier displacement, and so the saving of the affected parts from continuously foUowed-up pressure. It is moreover possible (3) To relieve the anterior parts of the vertebral bodies from pressure by bracing back the spine, and causing the weight to be transmitted through the articular processes and through the posterior parts of the bodies ( Walsham). (4) Relieving the affected part from pressure altogether. In the dorsal and lumbar regions this has been attempted by trying to transmit the weight from the axilla to the pelvis by means of crutches. In the neck also Sayre has attempted the same thing by his " Jury-mast" (Figs. 167 and 168), which takes its fi.\ed point on the thoracic plaster-jacket, and then arching over the head partly suspends it. Fleming's india- rubber air-bags (Fig. 169) also partly transmit the weight of the head to the shoulders, without its passing through the spine. Still, the value of iDOth of such forms of apparatus is probably as much from '.heir steady- ing power as from the support they give. In the cervical, and still more m the regions of the spinal column below it, any apparatus which really took all the weight off the vertebrae would be unbearable. 1. Methods for ensuring Rigidity and Support to the Spine Plaster Jackets.—Most surgeons agree that when the patient is able to go about, rigidity and support of the affected part of the spine are what are most needed. The kinds of rigid support most easily made and applied are those made of plaster of Paris and those formed of bar iron with appropriate straps. Many different modifications of Sayre's original plaster-jacket have been suggested. We may, however, group them all together as either vertical (Sayre's), or as the horizontal methods in which the supposed dangers of suspension are obviated by applying the splint while the patient is in the recumbent position. Of the latter we shall only describe Furneaux Jordan's and Davy's methods. {a.) Anszvers to Objections urged against Plaster Jackets.—Before taking up any method, however, it may be well to consider some ob- jections which have been urged against the use of plaster jackets :—JUIl V J. -* ■* ' iaiklts q dte ai porous as the material of any other efficient jacket. ^ V^ UMuTy, in certain patients, for the accumulaiton of vermin. This' may be obviated by the thorough cleansing of the PaUent s skm before^he splint is applied, by steeping the semet .n a saturated solution of boracic add and letting it dry before applying the plaster. Provision may Sso be mkde for changing the semet without disturbing the jacket ^Nvo h-htly tacked togetlier, instead of one, are put on at firs . When a ch mie is needed, the clean semet is fastened to the inner of the two. and on°the latter being withdrawn the clean one is pulled into its place. The outer semet is held in position by the plaster. lp=epnpd (•,) Interference with Respiration.-In so far as there is essened thoracic and increased abdominal respiration, this is an advantage for the spinal column. Respiration, as a whole, does not seem to be notably affected in well-applied jackets. . (.) Tendency to produce ulceration by pressure on the prominences. Th^ is due to insufficient padding. Where there are unopened ab- scesses the jacket should only be applied if infrequent aspiration is to be employed, as antiseptic dressings cannot be efficiently applied through the fenestra, which Sayre recommends for the purpose. Where a sin'os akeady exists, however, unless the quantity of discharge is very great, a jacket with an opening may be applied with advantage. [b ) Material of the Plaster Jacket.—Thi material with which the plaster is to be incorporated, whether as bandage or in layers, is "some loosely-woven material, such as cross-barred muslin, mosquito-netting, or crinoline." There is nothmg better than the white " butter cloth " used for dressings. For bandages, cut it into strips 3 yards long and Irom 24 to 3 inches wide. To work in the plaster, lake a quantity of Ireshly- baked plaster of Paris in a bowl; spread a newspaper over any Hat Uble or board ; now lay one end of the bandage on the table, and hav-ing sprinkled plaster freely over it, rub it in with the hand ; roll up loosely with the fingers the part of the bandage thus treated, and proceed with a new part, which is to be in turn rolled up. Repeat this until the bandage is finished. Several may be done at the sanie time. Unless the roll is quite loose, the water will not enter freely into it when it comes to be soaked for immediate use. [c.) Sayre's Method of Applying ike Plaster Jacket-Preparation of the Patient.—M\y markedly prominent spinous process is to be well padded round about with well stuffed glove-fingers {Sayre), or pads of lint or absorbent wool. In thin subjects, the iliac crests also may be protected by several folds of cloth put on until the plaster has set; when removed, they relieve from undue pressure. " If the patient be a female, and especially if she be developing at the time, it will be necessary to appiy a pad under the shirt over each breast before the plaster bandage is put on. These pads should be removed just before the plaster sets, and at the same time slight pressure should be made over the sternum for the purpose of indenting the central portion of the plaster jacket, and ol thus giving form to the body, and removing pressure from the breasts."— Sayre.2l8 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (Sayre's " dinner pad," is a folded towel placed temporarily over the abdomen to make room in the jacket for expansion after a meal ; it has been found unnecessary by many surgeons.) The inner semet chosen should consist of thick flannel, fitting closely to the skin without wrinkles, reaching from the axilla to the trochanters ; it is supported by tapes over the shoulders, and is fastened below by tapes tied over a perineal pad. Over this a second semet may be fitted, but still better a piece of woven webbing (procurable from Turnbull & Wilson, Edinburgh), which extends from the axilla to the knees, and is thus long enough to be doubled back over the outside of the jacket when it is finished. The advantage of a double semet has been already pointed out (p. 217). Instead of buying a woven flannel semet, and cutting off the sleeves, it is often more convenient to make one of thick soft flannel. This can be easily done by drawing the flannel round the body and " basting" it together in front. It should be sufficiently wide to extend from the trochanters to the shoulders, and should be snicked under the arms and well drawn up. How to put on the Jacket—The Suspension Apparatus.—When the semet and the padding have been adapted, the patient must be partially suspended while the plaster is being applied. Sayre urges surgeons to notice that the sus- pension is to be only partial—up to the point at which the patient feels comfortable, and no further. This generally means raising the heels slightly off the ground, while the toes touch it (Fig. 164). The suspending apparatus recommended by him consists of a " curved iron cross-beam, to which is attached an adjustable head-and- chin collar with straps, and also two axillarj' bands.* To a hook in the centre of the bar is fixed a pulley, the other end of which is secured either to a hook in the ceiling, or to the top of an iron tripod about 10 feet in Fig. 164.—Application jjejo-j^t" jLkf Ka/z^r Sayri). When by this or similar means the patient has been carefully suspended, the rolled plaster bandages must be applied as follows:—Each bandage as required is placed end uppermost in a basin containing water enough to cover it. As soon as the air-bells have ceased to rise, the bandage must be taken out, and gently squeezed to remove any superfluous water, it is then " applied round the smallest part of the body, and is carried around and around the tnmk downwards » Dr. J. Taylor advises that these should be made rigid—pieces of curved and well-padded iron tubing would serve the purpose well.JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APFARATUS. 219 to the crest of the ilium, and a little beyond it, and afterwards from below upward in a spiral direction, until the entire trunk from the pelvis to the axillae has been encased. The bandage should be placed smoothly around the body, not drawn too tight, and especial care taken not to have any single turn of the bandage tighter than the rest. Each layer of bandage should be rubbed most thoroughly Nvith the hand by an assistant, that the plaster may be closely incorporated in the meshes of the crinoline, and bind together the various bandages which make up the jacket, thus making it much stronger than if attention is not paid to this particular. If you notice any spot which seems weak, or likely to give way, pass the bandage over it, and then fold it back on itself, and do this until you have placed several thicknesses of bandage over this point, being careful to wet all well together, and then pass a turn completely around the trunk to retain any ends which may have a tendency to become detached."—Sayre. As soon as the plaster has sufficiently set, lay the patient down on a sofa, mattress, or air-bed ; meanwhile remove the dinner and ihac pads, and press gently in front of each anterior iliac spine to widen the jacket laterally. For a child with a narrow pelvis, Sayre advises to mould a waist to the jacket by pressing it in '^'^ at the sides above the ilium, and in front and rear above the pubes."_ Should a window be required for dressings, it should be cut while the plaster is still damp. The position of the window may be indicated by a pin left projecting while the bandage is being apphed. Although the plaster sets in 10 or 15 minutes, it is not thoroughly hard until quite dry—not for 24 to 36 hours. Unless unavoidable, keep the patient horizontal for this time. Fumeaux Jordan's Laminated Plaster Method, as described by the author in the British Medical Jottrnal, July, 1882, is as follows :— " The surgeon first determines how much of the limb or trunk it is well to cover. A pattern is then cut—one of the layers of checked muslin does very well for this purpose, as it is stiff enough to keep its shape, and is easily marked with a pencil. Afterwards, other pieces of musUn are cut of the same size and shape. Six or seven layers make a good average splint; three or four will do for a child ; eight or nine may be needed for a heavy, restless, or delirious patient. The first layer is laid flat on the table, and sprinkled with a layer of good dry powdered plaster, which is smoothed over with a spatula or paper-knife; on this, with its margins corresponding, is placed the next layer of muslin, which in its turn is sprinkled vrith plaster. The process is repeated until all the layers are in place. The splint is then slowly and carefully folded or rolled up and kept dry, ready to be dipped in water when wanted. The water—let this be well understood—immediately passes through any number of layers of muslin and plaster, thoroughly drenching them both in less than sixty seconds. " The part to be encased is drawn into position, and held so until the plaster partially sets. If the fingers of the extending hand be in220 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. the way, as when the foot is included in the spHnt, a temporary sHng of webbing or plaster over the instep and heel may be used, which can be drawn out or relaxed afterwards. A flannel bandage, or layer of wadding or jersey, is next applied without traction. The splint is now dipped in hot water (hot for comfort and for more rapid setting) for a minute or so. When taken out, it is very gently squeezed, being still quite sloppy and limp. When the water is pressed out too freely, the sheet will be sandy, friable, and difficult to apply. The splint is then unfolded, and drawn out in a perfectly soft and smooth sheet; it is next put under the ailing part, and simply folded over. The overlapping margins instantly and firmly adhere to each other. Traction should be most carefully avoided ; perfect neatness is enough. The layered plaster splint is applied with as much ease, as regards limpness and adjustability, as is a Fig 165.—Furneaux Jordan's laminated Plaster Splint for the spine {after F. Jordan). Fig. 166.—Furneaux Jordan's laminated Plaster Splint for the leg and thigh (after F. Jordan)- fomentation ; but it is a fomentation which sets, and, with rock-Uke firmness, lastingly holds the part in any given position. " In the upper limb, the laminated sheet should be large enoiigh to overlap two or three inches ; in the lower limb, the overlapping should extend to three or four inches; in the trunk, to five or six. A pair of strong sharp scissors easily trims the splint while it is stillJOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 221 wet . . Windows, scollops, or openings of any kind do no weaken a splint; and it is better to make '"^^^ ^^^^^^^^^l prominences, breasts, and other compressed parts, as well as op posite abscesses, wounds, and compound fractures, to \fter this general description a very few words are necessary to explain the spinal splint. This, as the drawing (F.g. 165) shows is made of three pieces of laminated plaster, two ^^^J^f^.^^^ another, and one overlapping the.r margm, external to thetn (this is brought out on the pieces shown in draw ng as folded on to the patient's chest, but it is not properly illustrated on the Datient's ri<iht side). This method is admirably adapted tor sup- porting th" back in cases of recent fracture of the spine where suspension is inadmissible, although support is greatly needed, i he Fig. 168.—Sayre's Jury- mast (after Sayre). Fig. i6g. —Jury- mast applied {after Sayre). Fig. 167. —Furn-aux Jordan's laminated Plaster Splint for the thigh and pelvis \after F. Jordan). patient is carefully rolled over on to one side ; the splint, after being soaked, is rolled half up and laid against his back he is then rol ed over the splint on to his opposite side and the rolled up part of the splint is opened out. He now lies on the splmt and the surgeon hal only to draw the ends over and smooth them down^ The method is exactly like that of changing a sheet under a helpless patient. The other applications of the same method have been mtroduced at the same time to prevent the need for repetition after- wards (Figs. .65, 166, and 167). He further states that while he prefers to apply his spinal splint while the patient is recumbent, the222 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Figs. 170 and 171.—Thomas's Modification of Bauer's Cuirass {q/Ur Jones).JO INT-FIX A TION AND FIXED APPARA TUS. 223 method is equally applicable when the patient is suspended verti- cally, and is more easy to carry out than Sayre s. {e) Davys Method.—Ur. Davy advocates the application of the CaUe piaster bandage while the patient is slung prone in a hammock made of coarse towelling. He uses a soft woollen hand-knitted vest as a semet The hammock, as broad as the patient s chest from axilla to axilla, is fastened in front to a stout wooden rod, from whose pro- iecting ends the supporting stays are made fast. The other end of the hammock, extending beyond the feet, is gathered mto a knot, and fixed to a rope with a pulley. „ ,u„ The patient being laid prone on the hammock is made to grasp tne ends of the rod with the hands ; the forehead is supported against a band stretched between the two stays. While thus suspended the patient remains quite comfortable during the application of the plaster bandage, and until the plaster has set. He is then taken down, and the edges of the hammock are trimmed off with scissors. Tnomas's Modification of Batter's Cuirass .—lYA?, is essentially a ricrid back support extending from the pelvis to the shoulders and fastened on with straps. It is simple and cheap; any blacksmith and saddler could make it under the surgeon's directions. Its straps can be modified to suit the needs of a growing child, and it readily permits of attention to cleanliness (Figs. 170 and 171). The frame is of bar iron, A of an inch thick by | of an inch broad for a child of from four to eight years, and thicker in proportion for older people. It is welded into a single piece, and lies against the patient's body as follows:—At the bottom it reaches as low as the sitting posture will allow, and thus extends across the sacrum_ from the space just posterior to the great trochanters. From this point on each side it passes up on the outer side of the posterior superior spines of the ilium, and thence inwards, to lie close to the spinal column in the lumbar and lower dorsal regions. As it ascends further it diverges sHghtly outwards towards the posterior fold of the axilla, and is then bent inwards till it runs across to meet its fellow of the opposite side about the level of the 7th cervical vertebra. As the figure shows, the frame is slightly broader above than below. It is forged so as to lie flat against the patients back. J , 1 .u To measure for the splint, the patient sits upright, and the length of a perpendicular, dropped from the level of the 7th cervical vertebra to the seat, is first taken, as giving the length of the upright bars. The cross measurements at the wider and narrower parts, as already described, can then be noted. The patient is next laid on his face, and the outhne of the spine recorded by means of a flexible tape of pure tin or lead. It is, of course, to be remembered that the angle is greater over the spines than at the sides where the bars run. When the blacksmith has made this frame to lie flat against the patient's back, the services of the saddler are called for. A piece224 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of fairly rigid leather is placed beneath the frame and extends beyond it all round. Beneath the leather, and extending a little beyond it in turn, is a piece of saddler's fell. The felt and the leather are sewn together, and the frame, and afterwards the strai>s and buckles, are fastened to both. The whole is then covered with basil leather. Straps and Buckles.—The cuirass is fixed to the pelvis by a broad leather strap lined with felt, which passes round between the great trochanter and the crest of the ilium on each side. Perineal straps are fixed behind, just below the attachments of the pelvic belt, and they pass between the thighs to fasten to buckles on the pelvic belt, about opposite the middle of Poupart's ligament. From the middle of the cuirass a strap of webbing is fixed on each side. This passes round the lower part of the chest and buckles on one side. The shoulder straps on each side are fixed at the junction of the neck and shoulder and at the lower border of the axilla. The shoulder and perineal straps are made of leather lined with felt, and covered with basil leather. If the angle of curvature projects sharply, the leather and felt over it may have to be split, so as not to press on it. The angle may also be protected from pressure as the patient lies by a longitudinal bar of iron over the spines. Where it is necessary to fix one or both thighs, additional bars can be fixed on to the lower part of the frame with cross pieces to encircle the thigh above the knee. Where neck has to be fixed, a Thomas, or other neck collar, may be worn in addition to this cuirass, or an additional piece may be fixed to the upper part of the frame. This piece bears a cross bar curved to fit the occiput and ending in straps which pass from just above the back of the ears round the forehead. (The account of this splint is taken from Jones and Ridlon's article in the Provincial Medical Journal, December, 1892.) 2. Methods of Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries.—As the upper limit of the ordinary jacket is determined by the axilla, it is evident that diseased vertebrae in the upper dorsal and cervical regions must have some other and special means of support. To some of these a brief allusion has already been made ; further details are, however, here necessary. {a.) Sayre's "yz<rj/-;//aj/."- Sayre describes his "jury-mast" as follows :—"There are some cases of spondylitis in which the cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae, or both together, are involved. In these cases treatment by the plaster jacket alone can do but little, if any, .good. It then becomes necessary to treat the disease by the use of an instrument which I call the 'jury-mast' (Fig. i6b). This consists of two pieces of malleable iron, bent to fit the curve of the back. To the lower portion are attached three or more strips of tin, long enough to go nearly round the body. These strips are roughened like a nutmeg-grater, by having holes punched out through them in both directions, in order to firmly fasten the strips to the jacket. The tinsJOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 225 must be rough on both sides, else the layer of the jacket on the smooth side will not hold the tin, and the jury-mast will slip up and down. " From two cross-bars at the upper extremity of the curved iron pieces, springs a central steel shaft, carried in a curve over the top of the head, and capable of being elongated at will. To this is attached at its upper extremity a swivel cross-bar with hooks, from which depend straps supporting a head-and-chin collar. This cross- bar must be placed above the curved steel arm, or it will be liable to become detached, owing to the constant traction on the screw by which it is held in place. "The apparatus is thus applied (Fig. 169) :—The patient having been encased in the usual manner in a few thicknesses of plaster- roller, the jury-mast is put on over this, care being taken that the malleable iron strips are bent so as to conform to the surface of the plaster, on each side of the spine, and that the shaft over the head be kept in the same line with the spinous processes. The extremity to which the swivel cross-bar is attached should be over the vertex of the head, so that when the straps are applied the line of traction shall be neither too far forward nor too far back. The perforated tins are carried partially round the body. The apparatus having been thus carefully adjusted, fresh layers of plaster bandage are apphed over it in order to hold the instrument firmly in its place, the assistant being careful to rub the bandage into all the inequalities caused by the instrument. " After the jacket is thoroughly hardened, the chin-piece is to be applied round the patient's neck, so that it supports the chin and occiput comfortably, and the straps attached to it are hooked on to the cross-bar, the degree of traction made upon them being regulated by the feelings of the patient " [Orthopadic Surgery, p. 463). [b.) Walker &> Eusseirs Modification of the " lury-mast."—A modifi- cation of this appliance was introduced by Drs. T. Walker, of Peter- borough, and Frank Russell. Instead of arching a steel rod over the back of the head to carry the cross-bar, they brought up the sides of the head two prongs of a fork from which to take the points for suspension. The lower part of the fork was fixed indirectly to a plaster jacket. The following details have been kindly supplied by Dr. Russell:— The fork is fastened by screws to the chest-piece. The latter is a slightly curved piece of iron, 5 or 6 in. long, % in. broad, and ^ or ^-^ in. thick. Lateral pieces of roughened tin give it greater security in the plaster jacket, and projecting from the from of it are two screws, % in. thick. These, when passed through corresponding slots on the handle of the fork, are fixed there with nuts. The screw should project in. beyond the end of the nut. The fork consists of a flat plate (handle) about 8 in. long, K in. broad, and in. thick, ending above in a fork large enough to pass across the patient's throat, and whose prongs, terminating in hooks turned outwards, reach to a point either above or below, but not opposite to the ear. The prongs of the fork are necessarily bent, at first back- wards and then upwards. Each of the two slots cut in the handle should be about 1% in. long, and should be just wide enough to admit 15226 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK.JOINT FIXATJO^ AND FIXED APPARATUS. 227 the screws without side play. The fiat piece of iron " is fixed under the last layer of the jacket, during its application, great care being taken to place it exactly in the median line of the body, and to bring its upper end to within ij< in. of the top of the sternum." The nuts are removed and the screws are protected by an envelope of lint while this piece is being fixed to the jacket. When the plaster is hard, the slots of the fork handle having been passed through the projecting screws, and the level of the prongs adjusted, the whole is made fast by screwing home the nuts. Straps round the chin and occiput, from the hooks of the prongs, are used to suspend the head. (iT.) Thomas Neck Collar.—This is "made by using sheet tin as a base wrapped in boiler felt and covered with leather, as shown in Figs. 172, 173, 174." These are copied from Thomas's hgures, but the rings in Fig. 173 seem too near the ends of the collar, at least when compared with his other illustration of the collar in place. (d.) Davy uses "plain cyhndrical collars, much like swimming collars. In country practice, a dry piece of inflated gut answers Fig. 175.—Moore's Collar. N.B. — The lower extra turns have been lately added. Fig. 176.—Moore's Collar applied. very well, but in towns india-rubber is best, and is easily covered w ith fur, so as to imitate a victorine" (British Medical Journal, July 4, 1885), while Pughe has found very serviceable for poor patients "a collar made of soft leather filled with sawdust" Horsehair would be lighter and more elastic. U.) Moore's Collar.—A steel collar (Fig. 175), the invention of a blacksmith for his own little girl, is described by Clark, of Glas- gow (Fig. 176) "It consists of two incomplete rings, the upper for .supporting the head, and the lower to rest on the shoulders Being formed of one piece of steel, the two rings are continuous at the back; and the upright portions, passing from the lower to the upper support the latter, and, when in use, support the head also. The lower ring is formed of round steel; but it is flattened for the upper, the flattening commencing about the middle of the vertical .supports. The upper ring being formed of the endsA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 228 place when in use. a poroplastic collar, of the bar is incomplete in front; but the extremities are joined by means of wire, or are loosely clamped, their ends being turned down to form flanges, so as to facilitate this connection. On the upper ring is placed a piece of millboard, and this serves to support a pad, sufficiently broad and thick to form a comfortable rest (Fig. 176). At the back there is a tie to keep the apparatus in It is, in many cases, found to be best to use to give a firm resting surface for the shoulder ring, or sometimes it may be desirable to employ a Sayre jacket, carrying it over the shoulders, and placing the apparatus on this." The support being on the vertical bars be- hind, the amount of elasticity depends on their thickness and shape. If need be, lateral supporting bars can be added to prevent the "give." Hilliard & Son, of Glasgow, supply them. Two other collars have been advocated, and seem specially useful in giving rest to diseased vertebrae in the cervical or upper dorsal regions. (/) Owen's Leather Collar. — One de- scribed by Owen has been long used in the great Ormond Street Hospital (Fig. 177). It is made of "undressed cow-hide, and is moulded on after being soaked in a pail of hot water. The hardened case is afterwards lined with chamois leather, and the front and back halves are made to overlap on the shoulders, and are fixed together by straps and buckles." —j5;-?VmA Medical Journal, Oct. 31, 1885. {g.) Walsham's Combined Jacket and Collar of Poroplastic Felt (Fig. 178), described in the same number of the Journal, is somewhat similar to the above, but encloses the head and chest more completely. It is like a combined helmet and cuirass, and has been used with success. \h.) Jordan's Cervical Support. — We cannot omit mention of Furneaux Jordan's "laminated plaster jury-mast (Fig. 165), which fixes the head and neck in one im- movable block—so immovable that, if the finger move the spine of the ilium, the head is moved at the same time ; or if the head be turned, the trunk is turned with it. The jury- mast is a layered strip (eight to ten layers) about 45 or 50 inches long by 2^ or 3 inches wide. The deformity, if any, of cervical caries should be alleviated by horizontal mid pulley- extension, maintained by a chin and occiput sling for some weeks Fig. 177.—Leather Collar for supporting head (after Owen). Fig. 178.—Poroplastic support lor head and neck {after IValsliam).JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 229 or months before the jury-mast is put on. It is applied thus :— The patient reclines on a narrow table and a mattress, with no pillow, pulley-extension with webbing being kept up until the plaster sets. The prepared multiple strip, rolled up at each end, alter being dipped a few minutes in water is unrolled, stretched, and smoothed; its centre is then applied to the forehead, well away from the eyes; the two ends are next carried to the back of '.be neck ; when they cross, one end being carried under the neck nrst, then the other. They are drawn firmly enough to closely embrace the head and back of the neck ; the ends are then brought lorward and cross each other again in front of, or near, the sternal notch, where they are lastly fastened by a plaster jacket laid ready to be put on in the manner I have just described (p. 220). Before the laminated strip is applied, the hair is cut short, and a double strip of flannel, with cotton wool about the ears, is applied by the same method as the plaster strip. Before the strip sets, its upper margin should be partially everted from the angle of the jaw to the sternum, giving thereby much ease to the neck, especially when the jaw is ■a^o^e.A.."—British MedicalJournal, July 15, 1882. With regard to the disputed relative merits of plaster of Paris or poroplastic felt, the latter if well fitted, is neat, light and strong, and is also porous ; but it must be fitted on by a skilled workman, and often requires a model, or cast of the part. The former is much cheaper, nearly as light, equally strong and porous, and perhaps more lasting. Every surgeon or house-surgeon can apply a plaster of Paris jacket for himself. Splint for Steadying the Neck in cases of enlarged cervical glands wounds of the neck, &c. In the Lajicet for 1886 (vol. i.), Treves drew attention to the importtince of giving rest to the neck as a factor in the treatment of such cases. He figured and described a splint, which he had had made by an instrument maker, to limit the movements of the head and neck. The principle is an excellent one, and may be carried out in several ways without the aid of an instrument maker. I. By means of a splint of strong galvan- ised wire. This splint which the surgeon can make for himself is a modification of that recommended by Treves. The wire for adults should be "size 8," for children "size 10" (wire-gauge) in thickness. It should at first be shaped out of one piece, as shown m the diagram (Fig. 179). The length of wire required is measured as follows:— With a piece of string, tape, or bandage, begin at the centre of the forehead and pass round one side to the occiput, thence follow- '•'g- •79- ing the contour of the body to the 7th cervi- cal spine, behind the shoulder to the outer Id of the clavicle, vertically downwards to the waist, and across to e opposite side. This gives the length for one side—double it,A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 230 and add a few inches for twisting the neck part and cut off a corre- sponding length of wire. The wire is then to be bent into shape with the hands and a pair of strong pliers as follows:—Find the middle of the wire by balancing it on the forefinger, and put a mark there. Now at a point on each side of this, equal to the distance of the occipital protuberance from the back of the ear, bend the wire back on itself to form the head rest. Twist the two ends together where they meet again opposite the central mark. Continue the twisting for a distance equal to the length of the patient's neck, then bend the ends out separately so as to follow the line of the shoulders, and at the level of the outer ends of the clavicles turn them vertically downwards. At the level of the patient's waist, bend them across towards one another and end by a whipping with cord or wire. At first the splint is made in one plane. It has next to be shaped to fit the patient. The first time this is done a little patience is required, but with ordinary handiness the necessary bending will be easily carried out. The splint is next to be padded by wrapping domet bandage round it, for hospital patients, or more elaborate padding material for private patients. (This padding is not shown in the drawing). Pieces of bandage are fastened to it as follows: —One at either end of the head- J) piece, and one at each of the four corners of the body-piece. When the splint is applied it is fixed to the head by the bandages from the head-piece, while the other bandage ends tie obliquely across the chest—i.e., from one shoulder to cross the front of the chest to the opposite waist end of bandage, and the same on the other side. A jacket or bodice is worn over the splint and helps to keep it firm. It is removed at night. 2. By a piece of poroplastic felt, cut as in the diagram (Fig. I So). The part a is moulded round the back of the occiput, the parts b b are shaped to come over the shoulders, and the part c lies against the back. The felt is padded and fastened with a bandage. This splint, however, is cumbrous and hot. 3. By a high collar or stock of leather or poroplastic felt. This, however, is apt to press against the tender enlarged glands.JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 231 CHAPTER XXIII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS— Contents.—C. Treatment of Joints after Excision—(i) The Hip- joint — (2) Knee-joint—(3) Ankle-joint — (4) Shoulder-joint — (=;) Elbow-joint—(6) Wrist-joint. D. Various Forms Of Fixed Apparatus—Applications and Uses of Plaster of Pans—Various Splints (Watson's, The Bavarian, Croft's, &c., &c.)—Various Bandages (Starch, Water-glass, Paraffin, &c., &c.)—How to finish the Surface of Fixed Bandages. C. Treatment of Joints after Excision. After excision joints require to be fixed in different ways, according to whether (in the lower limb) anchylosis or (in the upper limb) mobility is desired as a final result. "Thus, while rigidity is essential for an excised knee or ankle, mobility is as important for an excised elbow or wrist. In the shoulder mobility, and in the hip rigidity, is less important. It is well to remember, however, that in any case for the first fortnight, the surgeon's chief care will be to secure the kindly healing of the operation wound, by ensuring for it rest and a-septicity. (1) After Excision of the Hip, light extension applied to the thigh, in addition to the local support given by the dressings, is all that is needed. Extension is usually maintained for a month or six weeks after the operation ; after which the patient may wear a Thomas' hip-splint for six or eight weeks longer before trying to walk. Some surgeons prefer a long splint bracketed opposite the hip- joint, instead of extension as the treatment immediately after the operation. (2) After Excision of the Knee.—Watson's splint has been much used (Figs. 181, 182). Many surgeons either wire or peg the bones together at the operation to give them greater fixity. Preparation of Watsons Splint.—Watson's splint for use after excision of the knee is made of " Gooch " long enough to extend from the ischial tuberosity to beyond the heel, and wide enough to surround the leg and thigh for two-thirds of their circumference, or less. At the knee it is scooped away laterally to a breadth of about inches, and opposite the heel and tendo Achillis it is cut away in the middle so as to <-nd in two prongs, which pass down the side of the foot. (Esmarch "nds the splint off where the prongs begin, and finds that he can steady the foot without them.) The upper end is sometimes prolonged upwards at the outer side. The splint is to be padded with lint or wool, except opposite the knee (where movable padding will form part of the dressing), and it is then covered with mackintosh cloth sewn on. Besides the splint, a suspension-rod of iron wire (No. 5 trade-wire-A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 232 fh."i^i7'" ■T'^'* ""^^ °^er the knee, bent up at tne foot, and provided with one or more hooks for suspension. Figs. i8i, 182.—Gooch's Splint and Wire, ready for Watson's splint. When the operation for excision has been completed and the dressing applied, the limb is wrapped in wool or boracic lint, and laid on the splint. A layer of plaster bandage is then applied, and after the wire has been placed in position, successive layers are added until sufiBcient thickness is attained. While most surgeons immobilise the limb in a fixed apparatus at the operation, others wait until the wound has partly healed before so doing, and meanwhile steady the parts in a box-spHnt (see p. 156). (3) After Excision of the Ankle, some form of interrupted splint must be employed (see Figs. 160, 161). A Macintyre splint may also be used with advantage (Fig. 120). (4) After Excision of the Shoulder, no splint is required, the arm being bandaged to the side with the hand laid across the opposite breast. (5) After Excision of the Elbow, it is usual to lay the arm on a pillow, and to steady it midway between pronation and supination. Some advocate a form of interrupted splint, while others put on a light extension. Passive movements should be omitted for from ten to fourteen days, or more, after the operation, and should then be slow and gentle—one such movement being sufficient at each dressing. Any movement which excites inflammation or causes bleeding wdll increase the danger of after-stiffness. Later on Professor Chiene advocates drawing up the arm to the head during the day, by causing the patient to wear an elastic bandage, while at night extension with weight and pulley gradually draws it down again. (6) After Excision of the Wrist, the hand and fore-arm should be laid on a splint with a prominent pad under the palm ; for the first two or three days the fingers may be confined, but after that they and the thumb should be left free, while the hand and fore-ann are steadied on the splint. D. Various Forms of Fixed Apparatus. In the sections on Joint-fixation, we have described Sayre's plaster jacket, F. Jordan's laminated plaster method applicable to the spineJOINT-FIXATION AAW FIXED APPARATUS. 233 and elsewhere and the methods of cutting and applying pasteboard or poroplastic splints to the elbow, knee, and ankle. There are, however, additional methods and forms of apparatus, thus :— (i) Plaster of Paris may be used as for the spinal jackets. {a.) Gemral Af-plication.—After cleansing the skin and applying a layer of absorbent cotton-wool, or a bandage of flannel or boracic lint, the part must be wrapped with the open gauze bandage charged with plaster, and soaked in water just before use ; eight or nine plies are needed for an adult, five or six for a child; or successive layers of ordinary bandage and plaster-cream may be laid on thus:—After a layer of bandage, a layer of plaster is smeared on, and so on till i thickness of J to f in. is attained; or layers of jute or absorbent wool may be soaked in the freshly-made plaster, and applied to the part, or be used to strengthen the weak places of any plaster splint. The simplest way to remove these plaster splints is with Gigli's wire saw. A piece of stout string is laid along the bandaged limb before the plaster is applied. When the splint is finished, the ends of the string are drawn backwards and forwards to ensure its being loose. They are then made secure. When the splint has to be removed, the loop of a wire saw is fastened to one of the ends of the string and drawn through, and made to cut from within outwards by a see-saw movement. The position of the string must be regulated so that it does not pass over any convexity on the limb, otherwise the skin will be injured by the saw. The bandage must otherwise be cut with pUers or saw, or the plaster must be softened by pouring a few drops of hydrochloric acid upon it, when it may be cut with a knife. To obviate the difficulty in removal, several methods have been advocated in which the part along the front of the limb is left free of plaster. Neudorfer's plan is one of the simplest. Compresses of linen or of lint (we may add of tow, jute, or wool) are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of cream. These are then placed longitudinally on the hmb, first on the upper, then on the under part. A few turns of a bandage keep them in situ till the plaster is set; to prevent contiguous edges adhering, they are slightly greased, or a slip of greased lint is placed between them. If the pieces were made lateral, with an interval on the front and back, the spHnt when set would thus be in two halves, and could be removed by merely cutting the binding bandage along the front. Instead of mixing the plaster with water before it is incorporated with the lint or tow, dry plaster may be first worked into folds of iint, layers of gauze, absorbent wool, jute, or tow (see F. Jordan's !::minated plaster splint, p. 219), of the required size. These are then to be soaked in water, gently squeezed, and, having been laid on to the part, are to be bandaged into the shape of the limb. {b.) A very simple plaster bandage for the leg and foot may be made as follows:—Make two equal laminated plaster strips of nine layers of gauze each. Length, from dorsum of foot under the sole and up opposite side of leg to above or below knee as required ; breadth, half circumference at ankle, after allowing for padding. See that •he limb is steadily held in the required position by assistants. Now234 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. wrap it evenly in absorbent wool, boracic lint, or flannel. Next soak one of the two laminated pieces, and apply it down one side of the leg, under the sole and round to the dorsum. The assistants who maintain the leg in position can keep this piece in its place while the other is applied in like manner. In order to facilitate after removal, the parts on the dorsum which overlap should be separated by a few folds of paper (the overlapping on the sole is an advantage). A roller-bandage is now to be applied over the whole while it is still soft. When the pkster has set (ten minutes) the assistants may let go ; next day when it is dry, the splint will be perfectly firm. In the interval no unnecessarj' strain should be put upon it. When a window has to be left for dressing a wound, the separate pieces in many of the above methods can be easily ranged round it; but when plaster bandages are wrapped „. „ „ , „ , .• 1 J 1- u Fig.i8^—<». Pattern kingraans contmuously round a hmb, the \, -Bavarian Splint (a/z^r site of the window must be in- Splint. Gamgee). dicated by placing over the wound a ball of wool, on which the plaster is afterwards cut out. {c.) The Bavarian Splint is made of a double layer of strong flannel, stitched along the back, and shaped as in the diagram (Fig. 183, a). The leg being held in position, the flannel is applied with the stitch behind. The inner layer is brought over and pinned in front, while the outer layer lies back. Plaster of Paris is next mixed, and spread over the outer surface of the inner layer, to the thickness of about half an inch; the outer layer is then brought over, and a firm roller-bandage is applied. (d.) Croft's Splint. —A double pattern for each side of the leg and foot is cut from washing flannel. Beginning with one half of the splint, one piece of it is taken, and that face which is to lie next the leg is laid on any convenient flat surface. Plaster of Paris is then mixed, and the other piece is soaked in it, while plaster of Paris is also spread on the upper or outer face of the first piece. The soaked piece is then laid over the plastered face of the first piece. A similar procedure is meanwhile being executed by assistants with the other half of the splint. The two halves are then laid against the limb, and bandaged into position. The plan, however, now adopted at St. Thomas' Hospital is to protect the leg and foot with an evenly ap- plied flannel bandage, and then to apply a piece of coarse flannel shaped like the Kingman splint, and soaked in freshly made plaster. It is bandaged on in the same way. It may be strengthened with bar iron bent to the shape of the leg and foot, or with extra pieces of flannel, as required. (e.) Kingman's Posterior Laminated Splint (described by Gamgee). —The shape of the layers of gauze is obtained thus—" The leg being bared, a piece of the gauze is placed beneath it, long enoughJOIXT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 235 to reach from the knee to a point about 10 inches below the heel, and wide enough to encircle the calf. Upon this gauze, mark out with a lead pencil a pattern similar to the outline of the accompany- ing sketch (Fig. 183, b) of such size that it shall cover the posterior two-thirds of the limb. Place the pattern upon six or eight layers of the same material, and with a pair of shears cut them together." He lays these layers on one another, with freshly-mixed plaster between (the plan with the dry powder, afterwards wet, would seem better), and then places the soft mass beneath the limb previously padded, and after folding it up applies a roller-bandage. This splint is open in front. Flannel or lint, soaked in plaster, of the de- sired shape, would probably do as well. {f.) Pasteboard or Poroplastic Splints.—These, besides being shaped to the sides of the limbs, may be applied from the back, making a trough opposite any bend in the limb. The material must be incised at right angles to its long axis. When the splint is then moulded into position, there is an over-riding at the place of the cut, which gives greater strength than if the piece had been cut out (see also pp. 213 and 214). (o-.) Starch Bandage.—This is seldom applied by itself. More generally it is used over a pasteboard (or poroplastic) splint, which gives it greater rigidity, especially as the starch takes about twelve hours to dry. There are required—household starch, a bowl and spoon, kettle of boihng water, some cold water, roller-bandages, and pasteboard. First wrap the limb in lint, wool, or flannel, then soften the paste- board splints, and mould them into place with the fingers. Make the starch by first thoroughly breaking it down into a thick paste with cold water in the bowl. In this stage it will be white. Pour in now boiling water, and stir well. The starch will swell up and turn of a bluish tint. Add more water till the whole, being thus changed, pours easily out of the spoon. As it cools it will set into a jelly, but it may be used in either the hquid or the jelly state. Powdered boracic acid, about 10 per cent., may be added along -R-ith the boiling water with advantage. A layer of roller bandage having been now firmly applied over the pasteboard splint, is then smeared over with starch. A second layer of bandage is in turn smeared over, and so on for three or four layers. To dry the starch, lay the limb near the fire, or place hot bottles alongside of it. ih.) Water-glass Bandage.—This is a silicate of soda, dissolved in excess of caustic alkali (according to Wagstaffe, silicate of potash is not so good). It may be used instead of starch, and dries more quickly, although it does not harden completely for two or three days. It is light, strong, and cheap (4d. to 6d. per lb.) May be ordered from most wholesale druggists. Water-glass may be used with or without pasteboard. When extra hardness is needed, whiting, powdered chalk, slaked lime, or magnesia should be mixed with it to the consistence of batter. As in the starch bandage, after a layer of roller-bandage, the water-A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 236 glass alone or mixed with whiting should be smeared on with a brush or sponge, then another layer of bandage, and so on for three or four layers. (Esmarch advises the use of a freshly-made con- centrated solution of neutral silicate of potash.) By moistening the water-glass, it may be softened previous to cutting it for removal. (z.) Gum and Chalk.—A mixture of mucilage and powdered chalk of the consistence of paste may be used instead of starch or water-glass; but it has no advantage over these, and is dearer. (k.) Paraffin Bandage.—Paraffin may be applied with a brush in the melted state in the same way as starch. Although not so rigid as water-glass, it has the advantage of being waterproof; and though more expensive than most of the above, it may be boiled out of old bandages, and used over again. (/.) Finisliing the Surface of Fixed Bandages.—Plaster of Paris may be glazed with switched white of egg or with size. Its surface may be rendered waterproof by a layer of paraffin, or by several layers of boiled linseed oil, damar, or shellac varnish. In a similar way, a waterproof coat may be applied to any of the other fixed bandages, and is especially needed for children. In the neighbourhood of a window cut for dressing a wound, Esmarch advises a packing of wool saturated with collodion to prevent the soaking in of discharge. In the absence of collodion, some of the other waterproof materials above mentioned might be substituted.THE URINE. 237 CHAPTER XXIV. THE URINE. Contents.—Importance of a Knowledge of the State of the Urine in Surgical Cases—A. General Conditions to be Noted—Quantity of Urine, Pain associated with Micturition, Odour, Colour, Tran- sparency, Reactions, and Specific Gravity of Urine. B. Presence of Abnormal Substances In Solution—Albumen; Bile; Sugar; Blood; Pias—Urinary Deposits. C. Examination of the Urine— Preliminary—For Abnormal Substances—For Deposits. Importance of a Knowledge of the State of the Urine in Surgical Cases.—Although the investigation of the Urine is more usually considered as forming a part of the duty of the Physician, yet there can be no doubt whatever that a careful examination of this excretion, and a due appreciation of its various abnormalities, is of the utmost importance to the Surgeon. Apart from the necessity of studying the urine in " surgical" affections of the genito-urinary tract, there are many cases where the state of the kidneys as indicated by the urine may determine the advisability or not of an operation, and may very materially affect its prognosis, if it be undertaken. As a report of the urine is a necessary com- plement to most surgical " cases," a chapter devoted to the investigation of the urine from an especially surgical point of view seems to be called for in the present work. A. General Conditions to be Noted. The general questions involved in the examination of the urine will be briefly discussed before the methods of investigation are given in detail. (i) Quantity of Urine.—This is estimated by collecting and measuring the urine passed in twenty-four hours, and is important— {a.) because deviations from the normal are alone often indications of disease; {b.) because without a knowledge of the quantity, no reliable conclusions can be drawn from a knowledge of the specific gravity. The normal amount of urine for an adult varies from about 35 to about 65 ounces in twenty-four hours—on an average, about 50 ounces. The quantity will vary with that of the fluid drunk and with the extent of its excretion by the skin, lungs, and bowels. These factors must be taken into account before any conclusions as to abnormality can be arrived at, although, of course, an insatiable thirst and appetite are themselves symptoms of Diabetes Mellitus.238 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Variations In the Normal Excretion.—An important matter is the varying rate ai which urine is excreted during the twenty-four hours by the kidneys. Roberts has shown* that the solid and fluid constituents of urine are much increased after meals, and diminished during fasting and sleep. From this two deductions may be drawn, which might be of service in surgical cases—(i) That the urine, like the faeces, may be reduced by a sparmg solid as well as liquid diet, in cases where it might be thought necessary; and (2) that where urine had to be repeatedly drawn off by the catheter, the meal-hours might be so planned to suit the surgeon's time, that his visits an hour or so later would relieve the bladder after the increased flow had occurred. Urine is diminished in feverish conditions, especially those associated with sweating ; in cirrhosis of the liver ; in heart-disease, when it results in backward venous congestion, or lowered arterial blood-pressure ; in acute Bright's disease, or in the acute interstitial nephritis reflexly caused by irritation to the urethra, or in the later stages of all forms of chronic Bright's disease ; in rapid removal of fluid from the blood, as in severe hemorrhage, extensive serous effusions, persistent vomiting, or violent diarrhoea; in peritonitis, and in severe irritation of the splanchnic nerves, as in strangulation of the bowel, and in renal or hepatic colic ; also in blockage of the ureter by a calculus or by the pressure of a tumour. Complete Suppression of Urine—A condition of the utmosi danger—may occur not only in severe forms of Bright's disease, and in the course of any violent fever, but also in the congestions and inflammations of the kidneys which are apt to follow even the simplest operations on the urethra or bladder, especially when there has been long-standing backward pressure in the pelvis of the kidney from obstruction to the outflow of urine, due to stricture or enlarged prostate. Suppression may also be caused by an overdose of turpentine, nitric acid, or other irritant, or by the absorption of cantharides from a large blister. An increased quantity of urine may be due to diabetes insipidus or mellitus; to the early stage of any degeneration of the kidneys, of which it is sometimes the first symptom, and to waxy disease in particular ; to the intermediate stage of cirrhotic kidney associated with increased arterial tension ; to irritation in the prostate acting reflexly as in an early stage of tubercular deposit or senile enlarge- ment ; in certain degrees of backward pressure, as in the partial or intermittent obstruction of the ureters which leads to hydro-nephrosis; or to cystic degeneration of the kidney. It is also caused by nervous excitement, and is often a symptom of hysteria. The frequency of micturition should always be noted, as, taken along with other symptoms, it is an important detail in diagnosis. Like the quantity of urine, the frequency of micturition may be * Oh Urinary and Renal Diseases,239 THE URINE. relative, but when there is an increase from the patient's previous habit, or when the frequency is manifestly above the normal, some cause must be looked for. The increase in frequency may be attributed solely to a larger quantity of fluid passed, but besides, its explanation may be sought (1) In the irritating quality of the urine, when highly concentrated, charged with acid, or loaded with sugar. (2) In irritations of the genital organs and perinseum, as in congenital phym sis and adherent prepuce, and occasionally in gonorrhcea and piles. In children, and occasionally in adults, from worms in the rectum. (3) In obstruction to the outflow of urine, as in stricture of the urethra and enlargement of the prostate (mostly at night). (4) In irritation of the bladder from cystitis, presence of a calculus or foreign body, ttmiour or tubercular deposit in the bladder-wall, or celluStis near the bladder. Also in pressure against the bladder-wall from tumours, misplaced uterus, or pelvic accumulation of fluid—i.e., pus or blood. {5) Irritation of the kidney, as in renal calculus, or tubercular pyelitis. N.B.—The most sensitive parts of the urinary tract seem to be the prostatic portion of the urethra, the floor of the bladder in and near the trigone, and the pelvis of the kidney, a gradual deposit of tubercular matter, a quietly growing tumour, or a slowly forming calculus, may for a time escape notice, especially when they affect the less sensitive part* of the urinary tract, (2) Any Association of Pain with Micturition should also be observed and recorded. Pain before micturition indicates sensi- tiveness to stretching of the bladder-wall, generally from cystitis, but sometimes from an ulcer, or new growth ; also from pressure on the vesiculae seminales when they are distended a?nd inflamed; during micturition, some obstruction to the flow, as stricture, also irritating quahty of the urine, a highly sensitive urethra as in urethritis, or a caruncle in women ; after micturition, generally some irritation at the neck of the bladder as from a calculus or tubercular deposit there, or from an inflamed prostate. Almost all irritations of the neck of the bladder and in the urethra cause referred pains at the point of the penis, or at the orifice of the urethra in women, and those in the kidney and ureter often cause similar pains shooting down to the testicle and scrotum in men, and towards the groin in women. Occasionally penile pain has been caused by irritation in the kidney; pain in the perinaeum is chiefly due to affections of the prostate and vesiculse seminales, while pains in the loins and thighs are felt in various conditions, and may be reflex or due to direct involvement of nerves when an inflammation or new growth has extended beyond its original seat in the urinary tract. (3) The Odour of Urine is peculiar to itself; familiarity with it is necessary for the detection of abnormalities, .and for diag- nostic purposes, as it is often important to.know whether certainA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 240 doubtful fluids contain urine or not. Urine alkaline from decom- position smells of ammonia, while, when alkaline from fixed alkali It has a sweetish aromatic odour like that of the fresh urine of the' horse or ox " {Roberts). Blood or bloody discharges, when decom- posing, give it a stale offensive odour; turpentine, one like that of sweet violets; while copaiba, cubebs, and sandalwood oil, communi- cate their own peculiar odour which is easily recognised. (4) The Colour of Healthy Urine varies from a pale straw tint to a full amber-yellow in different individuals, and is generally darker in the morning than at other times ; the colour is deepened when the total quantity of urine is diminished while the solids are unchanged or increased, as in feverish or rapidly-wasting conditions, after muscular exercise or severe sweating. Pale urine occurs when the iluid part of the urine is relatively increased, as after much fluid has been drunk ; following a hysterical paroxysm ; also in diabetes and chronic forms of Bright's disease. A pinkish-red pigment is found in the urine of patients when feverish, and when suffering from severe organic disease—especially of the liver; it has a strong affinity for uric acid and urates, and gives them their familiar brick-red colour. A black pigment—melanin—sometimes only a chromogen, or pigment-forming substance, accompanies sometimes melanotic tumours. Indican, also chiefly a chromogen, when in excessive amount darkens the urine. Such excess is found in such con- ditions as obstruction of bowels, diarrhoea, peritonitis, and cancer of abdominal viscera. Blood Pigment,-when first added to urine, colours it red. Should the reaction be acid, the haemoglobin is soon split up and the acid hasmatin gives a dark or smoky tint to the urine ; in a urine alkaline from fixed alkali the colour is said to be unchanged. In ammoniacal decomposition of urine it is soon changed with the formation of alkaline haematin. Bile Figments in the blood are excreted by the kidney, and give a dark yellowish or greenish hue to the urine, which froths easily and shows a corresponding tint on the bubbles. As bile pigments can be detected in the urine both before and after any recognisable changes in the colour of the skin, their presence may be of great service in detecting or tracing obstructive jaundice, as from gall stones or pressure on the bile ducts. Certain Drugs and Dyes, when taken into the system, colour the urine ; thus carbolic acid, salol, sulpho-carbolate of soda, creasote, resorcin, or naphthalin, produce an olive green or brown colour ; santonin, or chrysophanic acid, yellowish-brown ; sulphonal, dark red ; antipyrin, clear blood-red ; beetroot and prickly pear, red ; methyl blue, blue ; logwood, reddish, &c. (S) Urine is normally quite transparent. In an acid urine, an opacity which only appears after cooling will be due to excess of urates, while an opacity seen at first may be due to oil-globules, asTHE URINE, 241 in chylous urine or fatty embolus, to the effect of copaiba or cubebs taken internally, to excessive mucus, or. most frequently, to pus. In an alkaline urine, turbidity may be caused by earthy phosphates, but it generally indicates decomposition. A ropy deposit of altered pus and mucus, and an ammoniacal smell will be present in the latter case. (6) The Reaction of Urine in health is generally acid, due to acid phosphates and urates. After food has been absorbed, the reaction becomes more or less alkaline as it leaves the kidney, although after mingling with the acid urine in the bladder, it may never be actually alkaline when passed from the urethra. The secondary effect of a meal, especially of animal food, is to increase the acidity of the urine. It has been pointed out that the acidity of the urine varies inversely with the secretion of the gastric juice. When there is much acid in the stomach, a less quantity is excreted by the kidneys, and vice versd. Urine may be permanently alkaline (i) in patients when in an anaemic and depressed state. (2) From the internal use of alkalies (caustic and carbonated) and alkaline salts ot acetic, tartaric, citric, malic, and lactic acids. (3) From ammoniacal decomposition where, through the agency of micro-organisms, urea unites with water to form carbonate of ammonia. The reaction of urine often throws great light upon clinical symptoms. An unduly acid condition seems chiefly to excite the mucous membrane of the urinary tract, and over-stimulate its nervous and muscular activity; producing symptoms very like those of calculus in the kidney or bladder. In some cases it may be the cause of small quantities of blood and pus in the urine, which still further complicates the diagnosis. An alkaline condition, from any of the above causes except the last (decomposition) seems to have no effect on the urinary passages, and is not liable to form any calculus. On the other hand, urine alkaline from ammoniacal decomposition is a strong irritant of the mucous lining of the whole urinary tract, sooner or later inflames it, and tends to deposit phosphatic salts. An important relation has been traced by Lister between the state of the mucous membrane and the action of micro-organisms. If the former be healthy, the urine seems ab!e to withstand the action of micro-organisms even when implanted wiihin the bladder; but if it be already irritated or inflamed, the fermentative process is easily started, and, once begun, it still further destroys the resisting power of the mucous lining, and decomposition goes on unchecked. In most cases, contamination of urine by micro-organisms is pro- duced by the use of dirty catheters, the risk of contamination being greatest in those cases where instrumentation is most required—i.e., in stricture, prostatic enlargement or paralysed bladder, or when a calculu.s is present. Besides the irritating effect of decomposing urine, the tendency to deposit ammonio-magnesium phosphate adds greatly to the patient's danger; a previously existing calculus will be 16A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 242 increased, or a new one formed, or the lining membrane of the bladder be encrusted with phosphates. Although uric acid calculi are slightly soluble in urine rendered artincially alkaline, no method of dissolving phosphatic calculi has yet been discovered, either by injections into the bladder, or by the administration of drugs, hence a phosphatic coating stops any attempt at removing a calculus by other than surgical means {Roberts), An unduly acid state of the urine may be caused by (i) constitutional causes. This is clinically important as indicating a liability to the formation of a calculus in the urinary passages, or as causing symptoms like those due to a calculus. {2) Muscular exercise. The Speciflo Gravity of the urine, taken along with the total quantity passed, is a direct indication of the activity of the kidney- substance and of the quantity of solids excreted. Necessarily, it will vary with the amount of fluid drunk, and of that removed by the skin and bowels. As the relative and absolute amount of solids excreted varies from time to time according to meals, fasting, and exercise, an average can only be arrived at by mixing together the whole urine passed during twenty-four hours. The average specific gravity has been found to be about 1,020, taking water as 1,000 ; variations, however, from 1,006 10 1,030 are not uncommon. Apart from varying quantities of fluid drunk or excreted by other channels, a high specific gravity., with a pale urine, points to diabetes mellitus with sugar in solution, with a dark urine to feverish condi- tions with excess of urea in solution ; while a law specific gravity, with a pale urine, leads to a suspicion of chronic kidney disease, and possibly albumen. Even where no albumen can be detected, a persistently low specific gravity should always make a surgeon anxious. The kidneys in such cases are not doing their work properly, and hence not only impair the patient's general health, but are apt to fail should an operation involve a strain upon their functions, and to break out into active disease on slight provocation. As the kidneys may be considered one of the chief means of purifying the blood, any sei'tic condition is apt to throw a severe strain on their functions. Indeed, in such cases, micro-organisms and their products have been seen w hen looked for in the urine, and large quantities of micro-organisms have been found post mortem in the kidneys. Hence the special importance of healthy kidneys in septic wounds, as well as in operations on the genito-urinary tract. When pressure within the ureter is increased, the excretion of solids is lessened before the current of fluid is affected—hence a lowered specific gravity may sometimes point to an obstructed ureter.243 THE URINE. B. Presences of Substances in Solution not found in Healthy Urine. (1) Albumen is to be detected by some of the methods to be a'.ierwards described. Although traces are occasionally found in the urine of healthy persons, the presence of albumen is always to be looked on with suspicion, and demands an investigation into its cause. The harmless forms of albuminous urine have been classified as those due to diet, excessive exercise, or special paroxysms {Stewart). Other causes are various—[a] Chronic renal disease. If the urine be paie. of low specific gravity, and normal or deficient in amount—espe- cially, also, if there be a deposit of tube-casts—chronic renal disease must be suspected and reckoned upon. (b) Acute renal inflammation. A scanty, high-coloured urine, with a considerable quantity of albumen—especially if there be also a deposit of blood-corpuscles and tube-casts, as well as general fever and pain in the loins—will point to acute inflammation of the kidney. This condi- tion may come on in the com'se of a case which is under surgical treatment. It may be found in any form of acute blood-poisoning, such as diphtheria, erysipelas, septicaemia, or pyaemia. \c) Congestion of renal veins from mechanical obstruction. (d) Pus, blood, or serum, poiu-ed into the urinary tract from any cause. Even after blood-corpuscles have ceased to leave the vessels, the presence of albumen in the urine may show that serum still escapes. It is often very difficult to calculate how far the albumen in any urine is due to the pus and blood mixed with it, and how far to diseased kidneys. [e] To leucor.-hcEal discharges, or the menstrual flow, which may be followed by albumen in the urine for some days after every other recognisable trace of blood has disappeared. (2) Bile in the urine may be due to obstruction to some of the bile-ducts within, or outside of, the liver. It may be suspected in a greenish-brown coloured urine, with a tinted lasting froth. To distinguish between bile-pigments and those caused by rhubarb or santonin, an alkali may be added, when the former will be changed to a dirty brown, and the latter become a deeper red. It is well to remember that, although the presence of bile in the urine may point to temporary or permanent obstruction of the hepatic or common bile-ducts by gall-stones or otherwise, the absence of bile by no means excludes a blocking of the cystic duct, a filling-up of the t'all-bladder with gall-stones, a former temporary obstruction of the other ducts, or even the permanent lodging of a gall-stone in the common bile-duct, because the gall-stone may act as a ball-valve and only cause obstruction occasionally. In all cases of doubt, the test for bile-pigments to be afterwards given must be applied. (3) Sugar in the urine may be temporarily present in small quan- tities, or be found there as a constant ingredient. In the latter case, it indicates diabetes mellitus, which sometimes has important surgical aspects.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 244 In some cases an intractable eczema is caused by it on the parts near the meatus urinarius (in both sexes); in other cases it is associ- ated with numerous boils or carbuncles, and sometimes with gangrene. More recently sugar in urine has been found temporarily present in many acute inflammations, and may be considered an indica- tion of commencing suppuration, so as to help in the diagnosis of obscure cases. Temporary glycosuria has often been observed after inhalation of chloroform, and is of no importance. {4) Blood in the urine—hsematuria—often of the greatest import- ance in surgical diagnosis, may be due to lesions of, or inflammation at, any part of the urinary tract, from the kidney to the orifice of the urethra. When blood gets immediate access to the urethra, it may be passed independently of any urine, or be mingled with the first few ounces of it only, the rest being clear. Such a relation would be seen in a. partial rupture of the urethra (if complete, there would be no subsequent flow of urine) ; in rupture of the vas deferens through muscular strain (Hilton); or in the course of severe gonorrhoea. Vesical haemorrhage is mostly seen at the end of micturition ; while in renal haemorrhage the blood, unless in very large quantity, is uniformly mixed with the urine and darkened in colour. From the colour, an idea may be gained as to the source of the blood; because the longer it has been mingled with the urine, the more will it be changed, and vice versd. Bright-coloured blood in an acid urine must, therefore, have come from the urethra, or from the bladder or kidneys just before it was passed ; while darkened blood pigment will have been shed from the kidneys or ureters, or from the bladder some time before being passed. Clots from the ureter, urethra, or pelvis of the kidney, when floated out in a basin of clean water (Hilton), will resemble casts of those parts, or of calculi which caused the bleeding (in the latter case particles from the calculus may adhere to the clot), while from the bladder they will be irregular. Blood in minutest quan- tity can be detected with the microscope by its corpuscles, when no change in the colour of the urine can be traced. Following an injury to the loi?t, or a strain, hsematuria may indi- cate one or other ol the following renal conditions (A/ort is) :— (a.) Contusion of the kidney. (b.) Congestion of the kidney, similar to that produced by turpen- tine or cantharides, following the injury, or owing to the displace- ment of a previously encysted calculus. (c.) Congestion due to an embolus, or thrombus, the result or accompaniment of the injury. (d.) Kidney uninjured at first, but secondary inflammation Spread- ing to it from surrounding damaged tissues; here hematuria appears late. . . (e.) Shaking of the kidney. This may cause hsematuna in some persons without, but generally indicates, a renal calculus. Other sources of renal hxmorrhage are calculi, new growths, tubercular or putrefactive pyelitis. In addition, hematuria, apartTHE URINE. 245 from an injury or from an embolus, may be expected in acute nephritis of whatever kind; in the course of chronic nephritis, from direct or indirect efiect of a calculus, or from excess of unc or oxalic acid in the blood. When the source of bleeding is the bladder, a calculus, a simple or malignant tumour, cystitis, tubercular ulceration, or (after a severe injury) a rupture may be traced as its cause. Bleeding often comes from dilated veins about the prostate in old men, and as the blood may easily pass back into the bladder, the diagnosis may be difficult. Haematuria and serious lesions of the urinary tract are sometimes traced to a parasite (bilharzia haematobia), and bleeding occasionally follows the sudden evacuation of an over- distended bladder. From the urethra, besides the causes of bleeding already noticed, a new growth, urethral calculus, or chancre, may be accountable. In women the menstrual flow or blood from a tumour at or near the cervix, escaping by the vagina, may contaminate the urine and simulate hsematuria, (5) Pus in the urine—pyuria—like blood, may have its source in anv part of the urinary tract. When pus is detected, its source should be ascertained, if pos- sible. That from the urethra will be swept out with the first few ounces of urine, which should therefore be collected separately. If the remainder of the urine comes away clear, the diagnosis is pretty certain, but if not, an effort may be made to distinguish between pus from the kidney and that from the bladder. By first washing out the bladder and then tying in a catheter, a suffi- cient sample may be obtained. If it be uniformly turbid, the source of pus will be above the bladder; if clear, probably in that \-iscus {Thompson). When the urethra has been localised as the source of the pus, we may require to know whether the pus comes from the anterior or posterior urethra (in front of or behind the compressor urethra), and if from the latter, whether from the mucous membrane or from a collection opening on to it. The follow- ing method may then be adopted :—The patient having retained his water for some time, the surgeon passes a small sized soft catheter down to, but not beyond, the triangular ligament, and through this washes out the anterior part of the urethra with sterilised water, boric lotion, or per cent, of salicylic acid. If the patient then micturates into two beakers, the first will contain the sediment which has been lodged in the posterior urethra. Should we wish, however, to know if discharge is being poured into the posterior urethra, three beakers will be needed. The anterior urethra is washed out as before, then the patient passes some water into the first beaker, the surgeon then passes his finger into the patient's rectum, and tries to press out fluid from the prostate and vesiculae seminales, some may escape at the meatus and settle the question, but if not, the patient micturates into the second beaker which will then contain whatever the surgeon has pressed into the posteriorA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 246 urethra; the remainder of the urine is now passed into the third beaker to make sure that the deposit has not come from the bladder. Coming from the kidney, pus may indicate pyelitis (by extension of septic mischief from the bladder, from tubercular deposit, or from the irritation of a calculus), a tumour, suppuration within the kidney or acute nephritis. When the bladder is its seat, it may be due to cystitis, tumours, tubercular ulceration, a stone, or bilharzia. ' From the urethra, gonorrhoea or gleet is the usual source of pus; more rarely a urethral abscess, and occasionally a tumour, urethral chancre, or secondary syphilitic ulceration. Bilharzia hsematobia is said to lodge most frequently in the prostatic urethra. The cystoscope in practised hands is often of the greatest use in ascertaining the source of pus and blood in doubtful cases. The condition of the bladder wall can be observed and the flow from the ureters watched, while the condition of the vesical orifice of the ureter often indicates that of the ureter or kidney above. In many cases it is necessary to examine the uiine collected separately from each kidney, either by a urine separator (see p. 255) or by the catheter cystoscope. The Occurrence of Urinary Deposits. —After urine has been allowed to cool and stand for several hours, a deposit is generally seen, varying from a delicate cloud of mucus in health, to distinct sedi- ments in disease. The naked-eye and microscopic characters of these must be noted. The materials of some of the deposits are formed in the urine before it cools, while those of others only appear after cooling. Those which appear before, are pus, and occasionally crystals of uric and oxalic acid, when in excess, entangled in mucus, also amorphous phosphates. In an alkaline urine, crystals of ammonio-magnesium phosphate may be seen. Where a deposit occurs before cooling, there will be greater risk of calculus formation within the body, although, as V. Carter has shown, it is probable that calculi are not the result of aggregation of the ordinary crystalline forms of the various substances, but of the com- bination of a modified crystalline form with mucus in a way not as yet clearly understood. After cooling the commonest deposit is one ot amorphous urates of soda, ammonia, lime, or magnesia. These may be seen under many conditions—such as excessive mus- cular exercise, congestion of the liver, any feverish condition, errors of diet, and from dyspepsia. When visible continuously for some time they indicate liver derangement, and being premonitory of gout and uric acid formation, require treatment (Murchison). If co-existent-with piles they would call for an improvement in the hepatic circulation. Besides urates, crystals of uric acid or oxalate of lime may be deposited, one or both, generally with urates also. Their deposit will depend partly on the quantity of acid present, partly on the acidity of the urine. In an alkaline urine, phosphate of lime in an amorphous or partly crystalline form may be seen, also crystals ofTHE URINE. 247 triple phosphate; in ammoniacal decomposition the triple phosphate " MorrorS".- is always associated with any of the above deposits, and holds them together. After urme has stood for a time, a .am often appears on its surface. This may consist of urates phosphate of lime, triple phosphates, micro-organisms, or of oil- globules. The latter may be seen after severe fractures attended by crushing of the medulla knd according to some authors, to a certain extent in most fracSr^ 6n-globules ar? present in the circulation, and are excreted bv th^Sidneys They occasionally give rise to the severe symptoms a;.ocfated "^th fatty embolus, in the later stages of diabetes, and in the rare and obscure disease caUed chylous urine. (The obser^-er must, of course, exclude the possibility of the 01 having been introduced into the urine by the lubrication of instruments.) C. Examination of the TJrine. Where possible, for reasons already given, the whole urine passed in the preceding twenty-four hours should be collected and measured ; failing this, morning and evening urine may be mixed when the specific S^vity is wanted. Urine after fasting is most acid; that after meals Sa^4the highest specific gravity; and will reveal the smallest traces ""^WTiTe^^pus is present, urine from a single micturition should be collected in separate vesseb. Preliminary Examination.—After the total quantity of urine for twenty-four hours has been measured, a portion should be placed in a narrow cylindrical jar, holding about a pmt, and be allowed to stand; in an hour or two afterwards the examination may be made, noting:— 1. Colour. 2. Odour. . \ t 3. Froth, whether permanent {i.e., indicating albumen) or not, or if tinged with bile. 4. Deposit. 5. Reaction.—'Y\as is to be tested with litmus paper. The ordinary blue colour will be changed to red if the reaction be acid ■ and if previously reddened, wiU be turned blue again by an alkaline rraction. Where ammonia is the cause of alkalinity—as in decomposition—it may be driven off with gentle heat so as to allow the red colour to re-appear. With other forms of alkalinity, this is not possible Violet litmus paper available for either acid or alkaline reaction is sometimes used, while instead of reddened litmus paper, yellow turmeric paper —turned brown by an alkah —is sometimes employed. 6. Specific Gravity is generally ascertained by means of a urino- meter, or hollow glass cylinder, weighted with mercury below and having a graduated stem above. In water the stem should sink as248 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. low as the mark 1000; the more the solid matter suspended in any flnid, the higher will the stem rise. As the fluid lends to rise up around the stem, the figures should always be read oflT by placing the eye on a level with the surface of the liquid in the jar. The urinometer should be entirely immersed once or twice before beiny read oflf, and should not be allowed to rest against the sides of the vessel. Examination for Substances in Solution.—Next, we test for substances in solution. 1. For the quantity of a substance normally present—t.<f., urea— the hypobromite of sodium method, with the instrument kr-wn as Southall's ureometer, is the best. As directions are sent with the instruments it is unnecessary to detail them here. 2. For the presence of substances normally absent, i.e.— _ (<z.) Albumen—i.e., serum albumen and globulin, which for prac- tical purposes are the only forms whose presence is important. (a) By Boiling after Aciduiaiion.—'' A test tube is charged with about 3 fluid drachms (10 c.c.) of urine. To this is added a single drop of acetic acid. The upper half of the column is then heated to ebullition. If albumen be present, the upper boiled portion of the column will show opalescence in contrast with the lower hall, which remains unchanged. If the urine be alkaline, it should be carefully neutralised by adding successive drops of acetic acid, until the litmus paper shows a distinct, but slight, acidity, and then the final drop of acid is added before boiling. Even il the urine possesses its natural acidity, it is better to add a drop oi acid, ii you want to bring out the maximum sensitiveness ol the boiling test. When performed with these precautions, the boiling test is the most sensitive and the most reliable of all albumen tests" {Roder/s). If the urine be alkaline cautiously add dilute acetic (2 per cent.) till there is a distinct acid reaction with blue litmus paper; then proceed to boil. If urates be present, boiling alone is suflScient, as the urates indicate acidity. Heat re-dissolves the urates, and as the boiling-point is ap- proached a cloud of albumen will appear, if present. Should the urine have been alkaline, or faintly acid, when boiled, a cloud of phosphates is likely to appear. This cannot be distin- guished from albumen until a few drops of nitric acid are added, when the phosphates will be dissolved, and albumen, if present, coagulated. (/3) Nitric Acid. — "Nitric acid is an extremely delicate test for albumen, and is the test to use first in all cases except when the urine is turbid from urates. The best manner of applying it is to fill a test-tube to the depth of about an inch ; then, inclining the tube, to pour in strong nitric acid in such a manner that it may trickle down along the side of the tube to the bottom, and form a stratum some quarter of an inch thick below the urine. Added in this manner, there is scarcely any mingling of the two fluids, and if albumen be present, three strata or layers will be obser\'ed—one249 THE URINE. perfectly colourless, of nitric acid at the bottom; immediately above this an opalescent zone of coagulated albumen ; and at the top the unaltered urine. If there be only a trace of albumen, twenty^^or thirty minutes elapse before the opalescent zone becomes visible." Cautions!—" In concentrated urines, and especially in febrile urines, the addition of the acid is apt to precipitate the amorphous urates, and thus to occasion a turbidity which might be mistaken for albumen. " .\lburaen begins to coagulate immediately above the stratum of acid, and the turbidity spreads upwards ; but the urates first appear at or near the surface of the urine, and the opacity spreads downwards. Heat also readily resolves the doubt; for urates speedily disappear when the urine is warmed, but turbidity from albumen is not affected bv heat." .■\lburaoses are precipitated by nitric acid, but not by heat. 1 ne clinical import of albumose is uncertain, but it sometimes alternates with albumen. Nitric acid may increase the opalescence conrimonly present in the urine of patients who are taking cubebs and copaiba. When e.xcess of urea is present in the urine, nitric acid produces a cr}-stalline deposit of nitrate of urea after the fluids have been some time in contact. Too small a quantity of nitric acid will fail to coagulate the albumen; a large quantity, it mixed with the urine, will re-dissolve it. (i.) Sugar. JSI.B.— ^ Before Testing for Sugar, albumen must be removed by boiling and filtering the acid urine" (Bedford). By ."'ofranine Test, described by Bedford, as follows :— (1) Take equal parts of—• (a) The albumen free urine. (b) Liquor potassae (B.P.), which must be iiee from lead, and not too old. ic) i-iooo solution of safranine [i.e., '35 gramme, or about 5 grains of safranine dissolved in 33 cc. of distilled water). The resulting mixture is dark blood-red and opaque. (2) Boil this mixture in a test-tube, but avoid as much as possible shakirff up the mixture. Then cool; if more than i-ioth per cent, of glucose be present the opaque RED colour disappears, a yellow colour taking its place. '• This test is the simplest, and, fortunately, also one of the surest tests for glucose, and is not interfered with by the presence of uric acid, hippuric acid, creatinin, nor apparently by glycuronic acid. The solutions required keep well, and are much more readily prepared than Fehling's or other reagents." By the Reduction of Oxide of Copper [with Fehling's Solution). —" Pour some of the prepared test - liquor into a narrow test- tabe to the depth of three-quarters of an inch ; heat until it begins to boil ; then add two or three drops of the suspected urine. If sugar be abundant, a thick yellowish opacity and deposit of yellow suboxide are produced, and this changes into a brick-red at once if the blue colour of the test remain dominant. If no such reaction ensue, go on adding the urine until a bulk nearly equal to the test250 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. employed has been poured in; heat again to ebullition ; and, no change occurring, set aside without further boiling. If no milkiness is produced as the mixture cools, the urine may be confidently pronounced free from sugar, for no quantity above a fortieth of a grain can escape such a search, and any quantity below that is devoid of clinical significance" {Roberts). Caution!—Certain drugs, such as copaiba and chloral, also glycuronic acid, which may be present in health, mucin, uric acid, and other nitrogenous matters, often present in urine, likewise reduce cupric oxide-hence, in doubtful cases, it will be necessary to employ the following :— By Fermentation Test.—Fill two similar test-tubes two-thirds with mercury. Fill up one with the suspected urine, and the other with healthy urine. To each add a little tartaric acid and a small piece of well washed yeast, invert them over mercury, and leave in a warm place. A slight fermentation occurs in healthy urine, but it will be marked if sugar is present. (f.) Bile.—A test for bile is equivalent to a test for bile-pigments. Tes' for Bile-pigments.—Place a few drops of urine on a white porcelain plate, and near it lay a few drops of nitric acid. Bring the two fluids in contact by inclining the plate, and if bile be present, a play of colours will appear violet, green, red, which rapidly passes away. In doubtful cases a more delicate mode of applying this test is to filter repeatedly through white blotting-paper and apply the acid to the pigments deposited on the paper. The Test for Bile Acids is less certain. {d.\ Melanin.—Take some urine in a test-tube; incline the tube and allow a few drops of strong nitric acid to flow gently down the side—the development of a dark purple band at the junction of the urine and nitric acid will show the presence of melanin. (e.) Indican.—Add 5 cc. of strong hydrochloric acid to an equal quantity of urine; heat, and the presence of indican will show itself by the develdpment of a reddish-violet colour. (/) Pus and Mucus.—Take any of the doubtful sediment, and treat with concentrated caustic potash ; pus will become a tough muco-gelatinous mass, mucus a thin flocculent fluid. Blood-pigment.—This is described by Bedford, as follows :— " If the urine be neutral or alkaline, acidify it. Then pour some tincture of guaiac (made with rectified spirit and preserved in a brown or blue glass bottle) into a test-tube, and add about an equal bulk of ozonic ether or of turpentine which has been ozonised by leaving it exposed to the light for some time. Note any trace of blue colour. If absent, the reagents are satisfactory. Then pour some urine gently on to the surface of the guaiac, and ozonised ether or turpentine solution, inclining the test-tube to do so. A blue zone forms at once at the plane of contact = blood. If the blue colour is diffused through the urine an iodide may be present. Now heat, and 7/the blue colour goes ihe colour is due to pus." Examination of Deposits.—Before minutely examining any urinary deposit with the microscope, its "naked eye" charactersTHE URINE. 25' should be carefully noted. When the deposit, after standing is small and yet where its microscopic examination is important, he clear urine at the top of such a jar should be decanted off, and the remainder poured into a conical glass. After a second decanting some of the subsequent deposit may be removed with a pipette, and placed on a glass slide under a cover-glass. Sir Heniy Thoinpson advocates thi simple expedient of allowing the urine to stand in a corked bottle placed with the cork downwards. The deposit which afcer^vards adheres to the cork can be easily examined. ,, , , WTiere a centrifuge is available, the deposits can be collected more rapidly and efficiently by its use than in any other way. For our purpose deposits may be divided into two groups— I Unorganised Substances (soluble in moderately strong solutions of either acids or alkalies)—amorphous urates or phosphates, crystals of uric and oxalic acids, or of triple phosphate. II. Organised Substances (more or less altered by weak acids or especially alkalies)-epithelial cells, pus, blood, or mucus, sper- matozoa, tube-casts, micro-organisms, and foreign particles, which have obtained access to the urine. For the examination of all these deposits, magnifying powers of 50 and 350 will be found sufficient. I. Unorganised Substances.—A. In an Acid Urine. —(\) Urates form a loose deposit mingled with mucus, varying from a brick-red to a dirty yellow colour. They are distinguished from all other deposits (a) by being completely soluble by heat, (^) by forming a film on both the surface of urine and on the sides of the vessel in which the urine has cooled (Roberts). They may be combined with other deposits. Under the microscope they are amorphous and granular. (2) Uric Acid.—lmo\\i\i\e. in dilute acids, soluble in caustic alkalies. May form a film on the surface, sink as a dense red deposit to the bottom, or appear as reddish granules on the sides and at the bottom of the vessel. Under the microscope the crystalline forms are numerous, but referable to combinations or modifications of a lozenge shape, or of a rhombic prism (Fig. 184, a, b, and c.) Their deep yellow colour under the microscope is an important character. The murexide test for uric acid or urates may be useful in confirming the microscopic examination ; evaporate a few drops of urine in a porcelain basin nearly to dryness, or moisten some of the crystals, add a drop of strong nitric acid, heat till quite dry, and a reddish-brown deposit will be left ; cool, and if a drop of strong ammonia be now added a reddish-purple colour will be developed. Uric acid in the urine indicates a gouty tendency, while oxalates seem chiefly derived from the oxalates of the food. Oxaluria is often associated with dyspepsia and mental depression, but by no means necessarily so. (3) Oxalate of Lime (soluble in mineral acids, insoluble in water or vegetable acids) forms a characteristic deposit to the naked eye— i.e., lines on the side of the glass, due to crystallisation along the252 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. inequalities left after towelling; these differ from similar ones formed sometimes by uric acid in being finer and in being colourless ; also a sediment with the following features:—An upper layer, while, hummocky, and sharply defined above ; and a lower layer, softer and gelatinous in appearance, and greyish in colour. It is found in an acid urine, and is often associated with uric acid and Fig. 184.—<r, i, c. Uric acid; d, g, Micro-cocci and bacilli; f. Yeast-fungi; g, e. Mould-fungi (from Landois and Stirling's Physiology). amorphous urates. Microscopically, it shows a crystalline form, referable to combinations of four-sided prisms (Fig. 185, a and b). A dumb-bell form {Fig. 185, d) of deposit which often accompanies the oxalate lime crystals, used to be considered another form of the substance. It is now recognised to be a carbonate of lime. B. In an Alkaline Urine.—(4) Ammonia-magjiesium or triple phosphate is most frequently associated with decomposition of urine, either within the body as in some cases of cystitis, or out of it, as the invariable result of exposure to the organisms of the air. In the former case, the turbidity and deposit due to altered pus will be the most striking naked eye feature; in the latter it will be the turbidity—scum and deposit—due to the fermentation. When deposited by itself, the triple phosphate has a snow-white appear- ance, with bright sparkling crystals on the sides of the glass, and forming a film on the surface (Roberts). Most frequently, however, it is associated with a deposit of amorphous phosphate of lime. Under the microscope, the crystals are seen to be relatively large, pris- matic with bevelled ends, and having forms modified from this by the bevelling of the various sides and angles (Fig. 186, b). Associated with the triple phosphate, there is generally a deposit of amorphous phosphate of lime, although it is often present alone. a Tj Fig. 185.—Oxalate of lime, a, b, Octahedra ; c. Compound forms; d. Dumb-bells of Carbonate of lime (from Landois and Stirling's Physiology).253 THE URINE. where fixed alkali produces the alkalinity. To the naked eye it forms a lieht flocculent deposit, paler than the supernatant urine, and often forming a film on the surface. It is increased by heat and dissolved in acids. In rare cases this substance is deposited in a crystalline form-stellar phosphate-and then, when in any quantity is'considered as usually associated with grave disorder in any part ol the body [Roberts). n Organic Deposita.—(i) Epithelial Scales and Mucus (taken tot^ether because the latter without the former would generally not be"visible). The light flocculent deposit found in healthy urine consists of epithelial scales shed probably from all parts of the urinary tract, and held together by the mucus ; in women, flattened scales Fig. 186.—Deposit in amraoniacal urine (alkaline fermentation), a. Acid ammonium urate ; b. Ammonio-magnesium phosphate ; c. Bacterium (from Landois and Stirling's Physiology). from the vagina will probably be added. In men, especially after gonorrhoea, the epithelial deposit from the urethra and prostate often appears as whitish flakes and shreds, which, although indicative ot no serious derangement, may occasion much groundless alarm. The epithelium from the bladder, ureter, and pelvis of the kidney, is so like the irregular cells of cancer thai no deduction can be safely drawn from its presence either for or against malignant disease. Renal epithelium, generally more or less altered, is often seen in the urine when the kidneys are diseased, and accompanies a deposit of tube-casts. (2) Tube-Casts consist of either fibrinous or blood-casts of theA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. tubules, or of the more or less altered epithelial lining of the tubules, still holding together and shed as a whole. The recognised varieties are, epithelial (Fig. i88), opaque granular (Fig. 189), transparent or waxy, fatty, and blood-casts (Fig. 187). As several varieties may occur together in the same urine, conclusions must be cautiously drawn from the prevailing types, rather than from individual specimens, and only after repeated examination. With these precautions and with the patient's previous history in view, Roberts says that "the following conclusions are generally warranted:—(a.) Epithelial casts and blood-casts indicate a disease of recent origin, lb.) Transparent large waxy casts, mi.Ked with dark granular casts, indicate a chronic disease, (c.) Epithelium and casts containing much fat, indicate fatty degeneration." ■Fig. 187.—Blood-cast; Fig. 188.—Epithelial casts. Fig. 189.—Finely altered corpuscles granular casts, lying near it. (Figs. 187-189 from Landois and Stirling's Physiology) These tube-casts are generally present in albuminous urine, and take a long time to settle. Twelve hours should be allowed. The methods indicated before for collecting deposit should be adopted, and are specially necessary. (3) Pus Cells can be recognised under the microscope in urine without much trouble. When in large quantity their presence may be inferred from the naked eye appearances alone. (4) Blood- Corpuscles are not quite so easily recognised, owing to their liability to alteration (Fig. 187).THE URINE. 255 Their bi-concave character is very soon lost by imbibition in most urines In some cases ihev are found shrunken. Where there is a doubt! they may be recognised by "the extreme tensity of their outhne, the absence of visible cell-contents, and especially ol a nucleus, and their feeble refractive power" [Roberts). Their colour also soon disappears. , . , , , While in an acid urine both pus cells and blood-corpuscles remain visible for several days, in an alkaline urine they are rapidly dissolved and disappear. (5) Spermatozoa are easily recognised by their characteristic tadpole appearance. They are physiologically preserit in the urine after connection or a nocturnal emission, but in certain cases, as the result of masturbation or excessive intercourse—more rarely, how- ever, than is popularly believed—they may be seen after straining at stool or at the end of micturition. The whitish fluid passed in many of the cases of so-called spermatorrhoea has been lound to be more often prostatic than seminal. Con'.rary to the statement of many quacks who practise upon the bad consciences ol their dupes, spermatozoa are \ery easily recognised in urine, even after it has begun to decompose, and are little liable to be confused with any- thing else. (6) Micro-Organisms in urine are frequently found, and may be divided into three groups: {a.) Those which get access to the urine after it has left the body—torulte, sarcina, and various forms of bacteria, {b.) Those which have gained access to the urine alter it has left the kidney, but while still within the body—/.<?.. those associated with ammoniacal decomposition, {c.) Those which are excreted as foreign matter by the kidney from the blood. In this group are numerous forms, frequently micrococci, associated with septic conditions and various zymotic diseases. (7) Parasites—Of these the one most likely to prove of surgical interest is the ovum of the bilharzia hsematobia, associated with hasmaturia, of three kinds. (a.) A few drops of blood at the end of micturition. When the parasite lodges in the prostatic part of the urethra (most frequent). (i.) Whole of urine bloody. Parasite in bladder (or higher in urinary tract). (c.) Blood always flowing. Parasite low down in urethra. (8) Foreign Particles vAi\<:!a. have gained access to the urine after it has been passed, such are particles of flax, cotton, hair, wool, wood, or feathers, the source of which it is easy to trace. Collection and Examination of Urine from each Ureter.—The most serviceable instrument for this purpose is the separator of Luys(Figs. 190 and 191), which, from its simplicity and efficiency, replaces the more difficult procedures of catheterisation of the ureters. The separator has the " B^niqu6 " curve. It consists of a central stem fitted with a sliding rod and chain in its concavity, over which a rubber covering is slipped, A. On turning a screw in the handle, B, the chain is put on the stretch, and so raises the rubber in the form of a crescentic partition, C. To each side of the rod a some-A SURGICAL handbook: 256 what flattened catheter is applied, D. The two catheters and central rod, chain, and rubber are secured by a terminal screw cap, E. Mode of Use.—See that the instrument is in working order. Plunge it into boiling water (no soda) for five minutes. Draw oft the patient's urine and wash out the bladder (avoiding the entrance of air) with sterilised boric lotion. Leave i oz. in the bladder. If there be any doubt as to the capacity of the urethra, pass a large- sized bougie. Thoroughly lubricate the instrument and introduce, making certain that the curve is fully within the bladder and beyond the prostate. The lubricant of Krauss is to be recommended (see Appendix, p. 288). Examine, if necessary, from rectum or vagina. The patient is now propped up, with his feet supported over the end of the table, the separator Fig. 190.— The Luys Separator detached. — A, Central stem with rubber membrane concealed ; B, milled head, by the turning of which the chain is tightened; C, cap • which keeps the end of the membrane in position ; D D, lateral catheters, which fit against the central stem. Fig. 191. — The Luys Separator mounted.— E, Instrument with tubes attached, but membrane concealed ; F, membrane drawn up by tightening chain. being steadily supported in the middle line by hand, parallel with the thighs. The membranous partition is now to be raised with a few turns of the screw. The boric lotion runs off rapidly, and a couple of collecting tubes, re- spectively labelled right and left, are introduced on the movable frame, beneath the catheters, and receive the urine. The tubes are changed every ten minutes, and the collected urine is set aside for examination as to specific gravity, urea, cryoscopy, &c., and may be centrifuged for microscopic deposits. The functional activity of each kidney may also be determined if we inject into the glutei 4 cc. of a 4 per cent, solution of indigo carmine, sterilised, with a hypodermic needle. The colour normally shows itself in the urine within ten minutes. Where there is a difference in the activity of each organ, the different hue of the urine gives a striking demonstration of the efficiency with which the partition acts as it lies in the grasp of the bladder. On withdrawing the instrument the bladder may again be washed out with boric lotion, and the patient sent to bed. There is rarely difficulty in passing the separator, and so little pain that an ana;s- thetic is not required. Some potash water may be given during use. The separator should now be cleansed by plunging it into boiling water, taking it to pieces, and carefully drying. The rubber cover serves five or six times, and is readily slipped on again if it be well dried and plentifully dusted inside with powdered talc. The parts ot the instrument should now be fitted together, and replaced in the box.257 THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. CHAPTER XXV. THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. Contents.—Principle and Description of the Syphon and Water-head Apparatus in Surgical Treatment—Various Applications—Douches, Vaginal, Nasal, &c.—Syringing the Ear—Washing out the Stomach and Bladder—Thread-Syphons—Syphon Pump—Adaptable Funnel for Waste Fluids—T)dng in a Catheter. The object of the syphon or other apparatus on the water-head principle in surgical treatment, is to obtain a continuous stream of fluid, and the ways in which they may be utilised are almost endless. Description of the Apparatus.—(i) A Syphon is an inverted U-shaped tube, with one arm longer than the other. Both being filled—if the short arm be placed in a jug of water, with the long end allowed to hang over the edge of the basin, the water will flow out of the end of the longer arm with a force proportionate to the distance between its lower end and the level of the water. An india-rubber tube, 5 or 6 feet in length, will serve all purposes. It should be weighted at one end to keep it under water, and may be provided with a curved metal tube to prevent it from " kinking " as it comes over the edge of the vessel. A thicker piece of rubber tube slipped over it at the bend (Foulis), or a piece of sheet lead wound spirally round it there, will serve the same purpose. If need be, when ready, it may be tied to the handle of the vessel. To start the syphon (a), sink the greater part of the tube below the surface of the \yater, which then, of course, fills it. Compress part of the long arm firmly, and while still holding it tight, bring it quickly over the edge and below the level of the water in the vessel ; now let go, and the water will flow down. Pinch the long arm till the syphon is wanted. (3) Suck the fluid into the tube with a syringe. (2) A modification of this is made by substituting cotton or worsted threads for the tubes. If the thread be wet, one end diuped in a basin or jug and the longer end brought over the edge, fluid will drop from the longer end exactly as if it were a syphon tube. (3) The difference between the "syphon" and the "water-head" principle is, that the latter requires a vessel with an outlet pipe below. Instniment-makers supply special vessels for the purpose, with stop-cocks and gauges. Dr. Foulis has recommended as a cheap substitute a common tin handled mug, into the side 17258 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of which, near the bottom, a stop cock has been soldered. When the vessel is raised, the fluid it contains will flow out by the tube. Modes of Using the Apparatus.—Either a "syphon" or " water-head " apparatus may be used :— (1) Instead of a syringe, for irrigating wounds or abscess cavities, or for washing out the mouth (after operations), the nose ("nasal douche"), the ear ("syringing the ear''), or the vagina ("vaginal douche"). Nasal Douche, though possible with a syrmge, can be best appued with a continuous stream from a syphon or water-head of about a foot's pressure. The per- forated terminal nozzle should be large enough to completely plug the nostril. The patient, who must lean over a basin, should be instructed to keep his mouth open and breathe through it, while he raises the soft palate so as to en- able the fluid entering by the one nostril to flow round the upper part of the pharynx and leave by the other (Fig. 192). Warm 1^ percent., saline solution answers very well, or a weak antiseptic. In Syringing the Ear , .-, the pinna should be drawn steadily upwards and backwards while the stream of warm fluid is directed along the roof of the canal. A funnel fitted to the ear should guide the returmng fluid into a basin. Care must be taken not to force a sUong stream against the membrane, lest it be ruptured. rr ■ . r t (2) When provided with a simple nozzle, as an etfacient iorm ot enema apparatus. , j ,.,\ U) For washing out the Stomach or Bladder (see pp. 9 and 10). The Thread-Syphons are chiefly used to irrigate wounds hy mois- tening a cloth kept over their surface. A bottle containing the irrieating fluid (water or antiseptic lotion) is fixed to a cage over the wound. The amount of irrigating fluid is regulated as above. Below the limb, a mackintosh must be placed to catch superfluous ^°The following application of syphonage will be found to .be of service in withdrawing the urine in cystitis with or without en arged prostate ; after operations for extroversion of the bladder; or after suprapubic cystotomy, to the comfort of the patient and relief of the nursing staff. Besides a douche can, some india-rubber tubing and a pail, we require a screw-clamp, a small glass Y- or T-tube, a Fig. 192.—The Nasal Douche.THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. 259 second piece of glass tubing bent like a capital letter S, and a third piece tent at a right angle to go into the bladder. These are joined together as illustrated in the diagram (Fig. 193), and the apparatus works as follows :— The douche can, filled with water, is fixed above the head of the patient's bed, the Y-tube is fastened with a large safety pin to the edge of the mattress opposite the patient's pelvis or loins, and the part below the Y is made to hang over a pail on the floor. The screw clamp which controls the rubber tubing between the douche and one arm of the Y-tube is then relaxed, so as to allow the water to flow very slowly, in fact, only by drops. It accumulates in the S-tube, and as it tends to run out produces a negative pressure in the other arm of the Y-tube—that is, the one which is connected with the tube in the bladder. It thus withdraws urine from the bladder, and this in turn, as it runs down the S-tube into the pail, increases the nega- tive pressure in the bladder arm of the Y, and so on. The amount of negative pressure obtainable depends on the distance between the branch- ing point of the Y-tube and end of the india- rubber tube above the pail ; about a foot will generally be found sufficient. A very small outlet at the clamp is all that is required, and at the fastest the flow into the clamp arm of the Y must be less than the possible outflow through the stem below, otherwise there could be no negative pressure in the bladder arm of the Y-tube. This will be better understood by considering what would happen if the conditions were reversed. If we were to diminish the outlet below the Y-tube and increase the inlet on the douche arm, the water would flow up the bladder arm of the Y into the bladder. Thus nothing is gained by increasing the rapidity of the flow beyond a steady dropping from the clamp. The accumula- tion in the S-tube will transform this into a rapidly intermitting flow with which the urine from the bladder is mingled. In an emergency the want of the S-shaped glass tube might be supplied by bending the rubber tube round on itself, to form a single loop a-s Dawbum recommends, or into a large S-shape as Keen advises. Keen also recommends a simple way of making a sub- stitute for the T-tube. He takes a small piece of glass tubing, softens the end in a gas flame, and opens it out with any convenient piece of metal. He then cuts a small hole in the side of a piece of rubber tubing, and stretches it over the expanded end of the glass. When there is no screw clamp at hand a piece of bandage tightened in a single knot may be used instead. None of these substitutes are, however, as convenient as the very simple apparatus advocated. Fig. 193.26o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. There is much advantage in interposing a bottle in the course of the tube leading from the bladder to the Y-tube. By its use the urine is collected separately, and not mixed with water, as it must otherwise be. A large-necked bottle is fitted with a rubber stopper, into which are inserted two pieces of short glass tubing. The rubber tubing leading from the bladder is cut, and each cut end is attached to one of the tubes in the stopper of the bottle. When the con- nection has been made the bottle is placed on a stand by the ^'^Apparatus for Carrying-off Waste Fluids.—It is often a great convenience when any cavity is being washed out to catch the- returning fluids and carry them directly away by a tube into a pail on the floor. As the shape of the parts to which the receiving vessel may be applied varies in different cases, an adaptable carrying- off funnel can be easily made as follows :— Take about 4 feet of copper wire (plain or, preferably, tinned), guage No. 10—i.e., about )/% inch thick—bend the middle part into a circle about 10 inches in diameter, and twist the ends together to form a handle. Now draw a circle on a piece of paper with a radtus which is equal to the diameter of the wire ring; cut a quadrant out of the circle, and we have a pattern for the mackintosh funnel. A piece of mackintosh cloth of this size and shape is then stitched together along the edges cut by the removal of the quadrant. Now fold the wide end of the funnel over the wire and stitch it in position, leaving room for its sliding easily over the wire. In fixing it, see that the stitched part of the wall of the funnel lies under the handle of the wire circle. The funnel has now to be fastened to the exit tube. Slip about an inch of glass or other firm tubing inside a piece of rubber tubing, 3 or 4 feet in length, and }i inch or ji inch in diameter. Place this end of the tubing inside the lower still open end of the mackintosh funnel and tie a piece of string firmly round the whole. The copper wire which stiffens the top of the funnel can be bent with the fingers to any desired shape, but is ngid enough to retain that shape while being firmly pressed agamst the patient's body. When used in aseptic cases, a piece of hnt soaked in antiseptic lotions should be laid over that part of the rim of the funnel which is brought in contact with the patient s skin. The important points of the apparatus are, the degree of pliability ol the wire rim, the relatively large size of the mackintosh funnel, and the slack hold which it has on the rim. Upon these depend the facility with which the rim can be altered to fit accurately agamst any part of the body. ^ , „ Tying a Catheter into the Bladder.—In almost all cases it is for the male bladder that this operation is required. The conditions rendering such a procedure necessary are various -such as to produce "vital" dilatation of a stricture to establish the urethral channel after perin^eal section, or to drain the bladder In the latter case it is not advisable to keep the same catheter in lor more than three or four days at the outside, nor to maintain the7JiUSS£S AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS (lraina>'e for much more than a lew weeks at a time. For stricture iwelve^'hours, or alter perinseal section loriy-cight hours, is generally long enough. To minimise irritation, a soft instrument (soft rubber or gum- elastic) should be chosen, if it can be passed into the bladder. The instrument, when there is difliculty in passing it, may be inade temporarily rigid by the insertion of a bougie which fits its calibre. After the bladder has been reached, the bougie may be withdrawn. The eye of the catheter should be just within the bladder—i.e., just at the point where urine begins to flow when the instrument is pushed in. Unless means were taken to secure it, the catheter woLild very soon be forced out of the bladder. Moreover, a soft instrument, unless fastened to the penis itself, should be kept rigid with a stilette as far as the bulb of the urethra, otherwise, though fixed beyond the meatus, it is apt to double on itself and come out. Tlie stilette of a gum-elastic catheter, if cut to the requisite length, and wrapped with silk at its upper end, may be made to act as a plug and as a stifiener at the same time. A soft rubber catheter mav be transfixed with a safety-pin, to the ends of which fixing threads may be attached, while to a gum-elastic catheter loops of wire or silk may be made fast for a similar purpose. These fixing threads must in turn be themselves made fast, and many ways of so doing have been advocated. Sir Henry Thompson advises that they should be looped round the penis, and finally tied to a bundle of pubic hairs on each side. This is easily done. Perhaps the simplest and most convenient method is to fix either the threads or the catheter itself to the penis with sticking plaster. CHAPTER XXVI. TRUSSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. Contents.—A. Trusses—Various Forms—For Adults—For Children. B. Artificial Limbs—"Bearing" Points after Amputation—Sites for .Amputation most suitable for the adaptation of Artificial Substitutes—Artificial Limbs, their Nature and Mechanism— General Hints. A. Trusses. {a.) For Adults.—A very great number of patterns of truss and of truss-pads have been introduced. A. Trusses.— In dealing with inguinal and femoral hernia, the .sup[X)rt should be given by means of a pad fixed upon a steel spring passing obliquely round the pelvis a little below the iliac crests. No reliance should be placed on pads fastened merely to soft straps. Two forms of steel truss are in common use—(i) The spiral, which may be used for inguinal and femoral hernia;; and (2) the Salmon and Ody, which is chiefly used for femoral hernia. Either may be used for single or double hernia.262 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (1) The Spiral Spring Truss. — The Spring is fashioned from tempered steel. In length it should extend from the pad-plate, which lies on the hernial opening, round the back of the pelvis to nearly the corresponding point on the opposite side. At the hernial end it is rivetted to the pad-plate, and the other end is tapered oflF for a single hernia. In a double hernia there is a plate-pad at each end of the spring. The spring has two curves—one is on the flat, by which it takes a slightly crescentic or scimitar shape ; the other curve adapts the spring to the shape of the pelvis, and near the pad- plate the curve is increased. This, together with the scimitar bend, gives the "spiral" appearance to the spring. The pelvic curve should be not much greater than that of the pelvis, so that the pressure is not strong on the hernial opening so long as there is no protrusion, but the spring should be so firm that if any protrusion occurs it meets with effective resistance. The strength of the spring should vary with the muscular development of the patient and with the size of the hernial opening. As a general rule, the strength of the spring increases with its length— i.e., with the size of pelvis for which it is designed. The spring for a femoral hernia is weaker than for an inguinal hernia. The Pad is fixed to a pad-plate of soft iron, which is secured by two rivets to the end of the spring. The substance of the pad should be unyielding, and may, therefore, be of wood, ivory, vulcanite, or metal. Many makers use cork, and some employ a firmly stuffed bag of horse-hair. With regard to size and shape, the firm part must never press against the pubes under any circumstances, although the soft prolongations of the pad which are sometimes necessary for large scrotal hernise, must necessarily lie against the bone. For a bubonocele the shape of the pad is somewhat pyriform, slightly convex in front, and not so large as to interfere with flexion. For a scrotal hernia (which dilates the external opening), a rat-tail termin- ation of the pad is recommended to help in closing the external opening, but in very bad cases this is not enough—the hernia escapes on the inner side of the pad. For such cases Macready recommends the use of Kingdon's "forked tongued" truss. In this "the pad is carried inwards for a considerable distance and forms a tongue, which is fixed by a thong to the cross-strap near the anterior superior iliac spine of the sound side." The other fork is the downward continuation forming the rat-tail already mentioned. For a femoral hernia the pad is bent more abruptly downwards from the end of the spring than for an inguinal hernia. Macready advises that for large femoral hernise, Aslley Cooper's " thigh belt" should be added. "The thigh belt should contain a triangular extension of the pad downwards, which, when firmly stuffed, dips into the groove which the hernia has made for itself in the thigh, and prevents the escape of the viscera below." Should the hernia escape above the pad, or should there be also an inguinal hernia on the same side, an "inguinal fulness" must be added to the upper part of the pad. (2) The Salmon and Ody Truss (single), has a pad behind at theTA'C/SSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 263 spine as well as one in front. It is also called the " opposite-sided " truss, because its spring passes from the spine round the front of the body on the side opposite to the hernia, and thus crosses the middle line in front to reach the hernia. _ This gives it great security. It is chiefly used for femoral herma, though it may be applied for inguinal hernia also. ^ , , • u The/arf is Ssually circular in shape, fixed to the spring by a ball and socket joint. A perineal strap is generally worn. A double Salmon and Ody truss has a double pad behmd, with ttie spring passing round each side to end in a pad on its own side. It is thus, when double, not an opposite-sided truss. To Measure for a Truss.—It is better to allow the instrument maker to see and measure the patient for himself, but for those who are in the country this is not always possible. Some_ makers measure while the patient is standing, others while he is lying. In any case the hernia should be reduced. The tape should be drawn firmly if the patient is standing, more slackly if he is on his back. Young gives the following directions :—" Place the end of the measuring tape on the opening of the rupture, pass it in a sloping direction upwards to about two inches below the ihac crest, across the back to the corresponding point on the other side, thence xlopino- down again to the starting point. Measure for a double truss the same as for a single—from and to one rupture. Give this measure in inches.'^ In addition the maker must be told the kind of rupture—single or double—and on which side of the body, if single. If an inguinal hernia it may be well to specify whether a bubonocele or a scrotal hernia, as the latter generally requires a stronger spring and larger pad. The sex of the patient should be stated. If the occupation of the patient or other circumstance requires a strong or a light spring this, too, should be noted. One or two sizes of truss should be sent when the patient is in the country. How to Fit on the Truss.—To avoid opening the spring too much in putting it round the body, bring it up from the thighs or slip it on sideways. Reduce the hernia in the horizontal position, put the pad over the hernial opening, and adjust the spring to the pelvis. Now support the pad in its position while helping the patient to stand erect without much exertion. See if the spring is shaped so as to fit the patient, and if the pad is directed so as to control the hernia without much traction on the straps. If not, he should try another truss or get the spring modified by the maker to suit the requirements of the case. The straps may then be adjusted, first the cross-strap, then that for the perinseum, it being borne in mind that if the spring fits properly, the straps do little more than keep it in its place. The patient should then stoop and flex the thighs, to see that movement is not hampered ; and lastly, he must cough and perhaps lift a weight to make sure that the hernia is efficiently retained. Directions for using a Truss.—The truss must always be taken off or put on in the horizontal position, and it should be always worn264 A SURGICAL handbook: while the patient is in the vertical position, night or day. If he has a cough he should also wear a truss at night, otherwise it may be removed when he lies down, but it must be re-applied before he gets up. The object is to prevent the hernia from ever showing itself again after the treatment by truss has been begun. Many cases of strangulation occur by patients taking off their truss at night and coughing down the rupture, or rising to relieve the bowels without applying the truss. A spare truss should always be kept in readiness, as well as a bathing truss covered with indiarubber. Umbilical hernise must be treated with a spring truss and a flat pad. For Children.—In children, trusses similar to those used for adults are generally indicated. For umbilical herniae the spring may be replaced by a belt. In male infants the form of hernia almost exclusively met with is the inguinal. If the skin will not bear the pressure of a pad with the ordinary spiral truss, a pad of wool kept in place, with the looped (p. 124) or a spica bandage (plain or elastic) will often suffice; or the worsted truss re-advocated by Lund {Hunterian Lectures, 1885) should be employed. A skein of Berlin worsted (Pye recommends "Alloa yarn," or "five-ply or four-ply finger- ing"), 22 inches long, and consisting of twenty threads, is passed round the child's waist (Fig. 194). The end passing round the side opposite from the hernia is held at the seat of the hernia, while the other end is passed through it, and after encircling the thigh is fixed with tapes or a safety-pin to the waist part. Two such trusses may be kept in use, each being washed alternately. Umbilical hernia in infants, when not very bad, is best treated by two strips of plaster crossing at the umbilicus, and drawing the abdominal walls together at that point. The opening may be further supported by a pad formed by wrapping a penny in boric lint, and held in position by the strapping. For irreducible hernia in an)' region, where an operation is not indicated, Bryant recom- mends a hollow metal pad lined with wash- leather, and made to fit exactly by being moulded over a cast of the hernial protrusion. Fig. 194. —Skein of Worsted Truss for Infants.265 T/CUSSJSS AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. B. Artificial Limbs. The subject is important, not only because certain stumps are said to be better suited than others for artificial limbs, but also because a surgeon should at least be able to advise his patients as to the form of artificial limb available for their particular case and circumstances. We shall accordingly consider the following heads :— (1) The " bearing" points in the lower limb after amputation. (2) The sites for amputation in the upper and lower limbs most suitable for the adaptation of artificial substitutes. (3) The nature and mechanism of artificial limbs. (4) General hints on the use of artificial limbs. (i) "Bearing" Points—After Amputation.—As might have been expected, the best "bearing" points are the natural ones; at the heel first, then that on the bent knee. Thus, in a favour- able case, after Hey's or Chopart's amputation (and there is no reason why, as a general rule, cases should not be favourable), the patient walks on the heel, and on what remains of the sole, without trouble. Also, in amputation just below the knee, the joint may be kept bent, and the patient can then generally bear his full weight upon it, although with the risk of developing a "housemaid's knee." After these come amputations in which the skin of the heel and that of the front of the knee, respectively, are folded over the sawn surface of the corresponding articular end of the adjacent bone. Thus, in most, but not in all, of Syme's amputations, the full weight can be borne on the face of the stump. In a Garden's or a Gritti's a certain but variable amount of the weight only can be borne. Next in order of "bearing" power would come amputations through the same articular ends of the femur or tibia, but where the covering skin had, from the nature of the case, to be taken from the lateral or flexor aspects of the limb. When the shaft, instead of the (lower) articular end of the femur or tibia, is sawn through, little, if any, bearing can ever be taken on the resulting stump, however favourable in other respects the amputation may be. Fortunately, however, the instrument-maker has other points of bearing to depend on besides the face or end of the stump. Beloiv the knee a considerable part, if not the whole, of the patient's weight can often be borne on the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. Above the knee a considerable proportion can be borne on the muscles of the thigh by means of a lacing shield, and there are few cases ■where, if need be, the whole weight cannot be borne on the tuber-ischii and trochanter, by the adjustment of a padded ring like that used for Thomas's knee-splint (p. 210). The lower in the limb the bearing can be taken, the greater the advantage to the patient in walking. The instrument-maker requires to adapt his points of bearing to the particular case, sometimes distributing the weight over several parts, sometimes confining it to one.266 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (2) Sites for Amputation.—(a.) In the upper limb thtit is no question that above the fingers (seep. 102) the greater the length of the natural parts left—other things being equal—the better for the patient in every way. Artificial parts, more or less efladent, can always be adapted to the stumps. The surgeon's way is, therefore, clear—he must leave as much as he can. (b.) As regards the lower limb there is much greater difference of opinion. Some instrument-makers go so far as to say that a jump is to be made from the ball of the toes to the level of a " Syme" or *' Pirogoflf," and that if 4 inches below the knee cannot be left to allow of a strong control of the artificial limb by the stump, the surgeon should amputate 4 inches above the knee to give room for the mechanism of an artificial knee-joint. From these views we entirely dissent.* After a careful examination of the whole subject, our conclusion is that the surgeon should take "the least sacrifice of parts" as his guide, and amputate as low as the circumstances of the case permit. He should spare as much bone as he can, and he may be satisfied that artificial limbs can be made for the stumps. The longer the limb left, the better the walking power. (3) Artificial Limbs.—We cannot, of course, attempt more here than a discussion of general principles :— (a.) For Partial Amputations of the Foot (Hey's or Chopart's), if during healing of the wound care be taken to bandage the stump well and keep the knee flexed, section of the tendo Achillis is seldom necessary. When the stump has healed, the patient bears his weight on what remains of the sole of the foot. At first there may be aching and weakness as the arch of the foot sinks down. After this has occurred there will be no further trouble, and the only artificial limb required is a stiff soled boot, lacing well above the ankle, and having cork or other stuffing to fill the place of the parts of the foot which have been lost. For a Syme's or Pirogoff's amputation, a cheap and useful, though not ornamental, artificial limb consists of a bucket ending in a rounded leather end, sufficiently long to equalise the two limbs, and taking its bearing either on the face of the stump or at some of the points, before mentioned, above it. When an artificial foot is desired, the axis of movement of the artificial ankle should not be below the level of the stump, as it is usually made, but is more naturally placed slightly above it. Moreover, and what is of greater importance, the face of the stump should rest not on the foot-portion—but on the leg-portion of the artificial limb, which should then be jointed to the foot-part. If this be done, the face of the stump has weight to bear, but has no friction. By the usual method—where the stump rests on the foot-piece—friction on the face of the stump is inevitable, and probably explains why so many otherwise good stumps are comparatively useless for the " bearing " of an artificial limb. (b.) Artificial Ankle- and Foot-Joints.—Of these there are no end. The first point to understand is—What can an artificial ankle- * SteEd. Medical Jourtial March, 1888, and 1889.TRUSSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 267 and foot-joint not do, that a natural one does? Next, what may it be expected to do? A. minute's reflection will make it plain that no artificial joint can imitate active muscular contraction—, forcible extension of the foot as in rising on the toes, and that the active balapcing lateral movements of the foot can never be replaced if the natural mechanism be lost. What can an artificial foot and ankle then do ? It can imitate the appearance and some of the movements of the original, and permit of a more or less halting gait. Marey in his analysis of the human step in walking, has shown that the trajectory I i Fig. 195.—Analysis of the Step in Walking.—CC, Trajectory of the Hip ; G G', Trajectory of the Knee (after Marey). of the knee of the supporting leg is nearly in a straight line—i.e., that the knee joint neither rises nor falls as the leg passes from the position directed obliquely backward (as the heel comes down), through the vertical, to that sloping obliquely forwards as the toe leaves the ground (Fig. 195). Owing to the active muscular changes at the ankle-joint, this is attained with a longer stride than would be otherwise possible. Without such an actively changing ankle and foot, the stride must be less, but the same straight-line-trajectory of the knee can be obtained by ensuring that the leg from the knee downwards rolls forward on a sole, curved in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the knee-joint, and whose radius is equal to the distance between the knee and the sole of the boot. This produces the same effect as if the knee were the axle of a wheel and the sole of the foot part of the circumference. This curve of sole is practically that empirically advocated by Count Beaufort in his cheap limbs for the working classes. The effect of this close imitation of nature explains why it is that, in amputations below the knee, the gait of the patient with a Beaufort limb is so good, equal to, if not better than, that attained by a patient with the most expensive limb ever made. While this form of curved sole gives208 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. such good results and is so simple, two secondary objections may be raised against it:—(i) That it is awkward in appearance. (2) That it does not yield laterally so as to accommodate itself to a side slope. To obviate the first objection, when desired a spring might be arranged so as to flatten down the fore part of the foot when not actually pressed upon, and the second may be met by allowing a slight lateral play in the foot controlled by strong springs. These objects are not necessary, however, and besides increasing expense might introduce a source of weakness into the limb. Whatever else instrument-makers may do to obtain an appearance, they should ensure that the trajectory of the knee is in a straight line as the foot rolls forward. However, an artificial foot which pivots at the ankle, or on the balls of the artificial toes, must make the knee pass through the arc of a circle, and not continue in the desired straight line. A slight amount of lateral play in the foot may be per- mitted if desired. When a stump ends shortly above the level of any joint, the new joint may be in the form of a transverse rod working in a socket <hinge joint). When the stump comes below the level of the new joint, the axis must be made to work on two* " rule " joints, one on either side of the stump. This form of joint is said to be less lasting than the other, but is very often unavoidable. (c.) Artificial Knee. —According to circumstances, a rule or a hinge-joint may be employed ; but, to avoid friction, the bearing must always be taken on the upper of the two pieces forming the joint (see p. 267). When the artificial limb is straightened, the line ot downward strain should pass in front of the axis of the knee-joint, which should then be locked so that it cannot over- extend. This imitation ot nature permits the patient to bear full weight on the straight knee without any fear of its giving way. The knee will bend easily enough as the thigh flexes to lift the leg off" the ground, and the swing forward will again straighten the knee for the next step. In some cases a slight straightening spring is needed. By the artificial tendo Achillis mechanism with appropriate springs, the artificial knee- and ankle-joints are always extended and always flexed together. The latter combination is useful in clearing the ground as the leg is carried forwards for a fresh step, but the double extension makes the lower limb, when supporting, pivot forwards on the fore part of the foot, and this, as we have already seen, is a disadvantage to the gait. For cheap limbs, the knee is kept rigid while the patient walks ; but in most it is made to bend by the relaxation of a spring for convenience when the patient sits down. On these general principles it is not difficult to see how efficient and yet cheap limbs may be constructed, of which the Beaufort limbs may be taken as the type. The old-fashioned bucket and pin legs, and kneeling legs will, it is hoped, soon be replaced by as cheap but more efficient substitutes. (d.) Artificial Arms.—Many expensive patterns are in vogue, but * Like the joint of a foot-rule.PLASTER- CASTING. 269 for cheapness and efficiency the Beaufort arm is the best. Thi, below the elbow, consists of a closed hand with movable thumb closincr with a spring, which is opened out as the ami is moved from the side When an object is to be grasped, the arm is moved away from the side, and the opened thumb is made to surround the object. If the body be now brought up to the arm, the spring is allowed to close the thumb, and so to secure the object. For amputations above the elbow, besides this thumb-movement, an elbow-joint is provided, which can be either kept extended or tirmiv locked at a right angle, as required. (4)' General Hints.—An artificial limb may be ordered as soon as the stump has healed. As, however, stumps are apt to atrophy at first from disuse, then to regain somewhat as they are put to a modified use, the wearers of artificial limbs must be cautioned that alterations in the new limb and its padding will be needed to correspond to those changes. . It is better not to allow a patient to use crutches, or an intenor form of artificial limb at first, lest bad habits of walking should be learned which cannot be afterwards broken off without great trouble. CHAPTER XXVII. PLASTER-CASTING. Contents.—Use of Plaster-Casting to the Surgeon—How to prepare the Plaster—How to take the Mould—How to make the Cast— How to remove the Cast from the Mould—Casting in Gelatine and Glycerine. Plaster-casting is often useful to obtain a permanent record of abnormahties, and as a means of enabling instrument-makers at a distance to fit apparatus accurately. The stages of casting may be divided into—(l) Mixing the plaster; (2J taking the mould; (3) making the cast. (i) Mixing the Plaster.—The plaster of Paris used is of good medium quality, about gd. a stone ; not the extra fine kind used by dentists, nor the coarser sort for rough castings. It should be thoroughly dry, and can be baked in an oven, or by the side of the fire, if at all damp. Take, in any common bowl, half as much water as is required of the mixed plaster (warm water causes more rapid setting than cold ; and in winter the chill should be taken off the water lor the patient's comfort, when the cast is from the living person), sprinkle lightly into the visXtt—without stirring—spoonful after spoonful of the dry plaster until it rises up through the water, and shows just beneath the surface all over. There is now enough. Stir the whole rapidly, working it up frorn below and from the sides.A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. ^Vllen mixed, it is ready, and, although quite fluid at first, soon becomes thick. It will be found that nearly an equal bulk ol plaster and water are used, and that the mixture is only a little less than twice the bulk of water taken. When a plaster-cast is to be taken from the mould, ink or some other colouring-matter should be added to the plaster for the mould as If is being mixed. The reason for this will be afterwards explained. (2) Taking the Mould.—\{ the amount of surface to be cast is such that it can be pulled out of a one-piece mould, the process is so much the snnpler. Although the phable soft textures can be withdrawn from a plaster mould, which partly surrounds them, the extent to which this can be done will vary with the part, and must be learned by practice. A plaster-cast and mould, on the other hand, being both rigid, can only be separated when, besides not sticking, they do not enclose one another. Suppose the back of a man's hand is to be cast. Shave off all hairs from the dorsum of hand and first phalanges—the soft hairs on a woman's or child's hand may be smoothed down with soap and vaseline—next lay the hand, fingers and thumb together, prone on a board spread with a piece of paper. Partly fill up the hollow under the wrist to prevent the plaster from getting too far round. See that the hand is well smeared with oil or vaseline. Mix sufiScient plastar of Paris to cover the hand all over with a half-inch thick layer. When first made, the plaster will be too thin to lie on the hand; very soon, however, it will become like cream. In this state lay it over every part of the back of the hand and fingers, and, as it thickens, plaster it on more and more. Care must be taken to see that every part is uniformly covered; there is a risk that some parts will be as thin as egg-shell and break very easily, while others have more than their share. When every part is satisfactorily covered, jeaye the plaster for five or ten minutes to set. This process will be indicated by its giowing distinctly, though not uncomfortably, warm. Before the mould is ready to lift, any small projection, when tested, should crack off as a whole, and not crumble under the finger. When sufficiently hard, it should be cautiously lifted from the hand. When both sides of an object (say, the hand) are requured, the mould must be taken off in two pieces. There are many ways of doing this, but the " thread " plan is perhaps the best. Mix plaster as before, but in two portions, one after the other— one is to be laid down first as a bed—and when it is thickening and can be heaped up into a level layer, the hand is allowed to sink a very little way into it. Next make a fresh quantity of plaster, and as it thickens take a piece of strong pack-thread or thin twine, and by means of the plaster make it stick to the skin all round the most prominent part of the hand, and at the tips of the fingers if extended. Now, rapidly cover over the whole of the rest of the hand as before. The thread will remain in its position, unless disturbed. When the plaster has thickened to the consistence of cream-cheese, draw the thread steadily out through it all round.PLASTER-CASTING. 271 If the right state of the plaster has been chosen, the track of the thread should remain open. Should the plaster be too sof It will fall in on the thread's track; should U be too frm, it wil crack and break rather than let the thread come through. Do riot touch the mould otherwise until it has set. By cautiously inserting a knile into the track of the thread at various parts, the top U^e mould may be lifted off, and the hand withdrawn from the lower ^'^The foot is a little more difficult to manage. Two threads must be taken whose tracks overlap, and the ends of each thread must be drawn out only until it meets the track of the other. One loop ot thread passes below the sole and up the leg over the malleoli, the anas beinc^ held at first above and parallel with the axis of the leg. 1 he othe? parallel with the long axis of the foot passes round the back of the heel, and coming round the sides of the foot at its most prominent part, crosses in front of the great toe, where the ends hancT forward. Having covered the foot with plaster, the caster must heap up the plaster on the ankle and lower part of the leg while it is soft enough to mould itself to the skin, yet firm enough not to run down when placed in position. The threads are to be drawn out as before—in this case from above, and from the front until their tracks cross, below the malleoli. The two pieces of the mould thus mapped out are, one covering the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot, and the other covering the back of the leg and sole of the foot. (3) Makmg the Coj/.—The chief points requinng attention are, how to prevent the cast from sticking to the mould, and how to obviate air bubbles in the cast. Freshly-made plaster, if poured into a mould which has not been specially prepared, will assuredly stick to it. The simplest and best way to prepare the mould is to soak it in water for an hour or two before it is needed. To test for sufficient soaking, watch, after the mould is taken from the basin, whether water remains on the plaster, or dries in. If the latter, the pores of the plaster are evidently not yet filled with water, and further soaking is needed. If the mould be quite soaked, the fresh plaster wiU lie in the most perfect contact with every detail of its surface without uniting to it. In addition to thorough wetting, the surface may be painted over with olive oil or be dashed over with soap-suds, and then again with pure water (olive oil painted over the surface of a dry mould is almost at once sucked in and becomes useless, unless by many repeated coats the plaster is filled with it. Boiled linseed oil after two or three coats will form a varnish on the surface, but it is apt to impair the sharpness of the cast, unless care is taken to limit the amoimt). The only way to prevent air bubbles from forming between the mould and the cast is to pour the plaster slowly and by instalments into the mould, and to keep constantly shaking and turning the mould round and round all the time. .Sometimes it is an advantage to pour the fluid plaster into and out of the mould once or twice, in addition to turning it round and round. If plaster be poured in272 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. without these precautions, air-bells will certainly disfigure the cast when the mould is nearly full, a loop of string should be pushed into the plaster to hang the cast by afterwards. (4) Removing the Cast from the Mould. —Except in almost flat casts, this must be done at the expense of the mould. In all ordinary casts' only one copy can be made from the original mould. Additional copies can be taken from this by making either an elastic gelatine mould or a plaster "piece-mould." The plaster-cast, which has been filled into the mould, should be set aside for twelve hours. With a chisel and hammer the mould must then be chipped away piece-meal, care being taken not to let the chisel cut into the cast. The advantage of staining the plaster of the mould will now be apparent. It will be found an advantage to begiii at the edges, and special care must be taken of any projecting or thin piece of the cast'lest it be broken off with the mould. To harden the plaster of Paris it should be slowly dried, then soaked in a saturated solution ol alum, and slowly dried again. This improves it greatly. Boiled linseed oil softens the surface of the plaster. If the cast is to be painted, one or two coats of Damar varnish or ot size, as a preliminary, will prevent the paint trom being absorbed too quickly by the porous plaster. (a.) A Gelatine Mould is made by suspending the cast, bone, or other object to be copied, in a wooden box large enough to give an interval of at least an inch between the object and all sides of the box. Into this is poured strong melted gelatine, or the gl)'cerine and gelatine mixture (p. 273). When the mould is cold, the sides of the box are taken off', and a cut made in the gelatine all round, half way up the most prominent parts of the object. After lifting off the top half of the mould, the object can be pulled out of the lower halt. The two halves should then be laid together, and a hole cut out of the upper one, opposite its highest point. The sides of the box are now replaced and bound in position, and, in addition, the top ol the mould must be held down to prevent the plaster from escaping, leaving, of course, the top aperture free, A plaster-cast can then be run into this gelatine mould, which, from its fiexibihty, can be lifted off from the rigid cast without injuring it. For small objects a small bowl serves well. The gelatine can be lifted out, cut as desired, and replaced in position. (b.) A " Piece-Mould" is made of plaster of Paris, and being rigid as well as the cast, must b.e made of many pieces, each of which can be lifted off without going round a comer. The object to be copied is first mapped out into areas where casts will lift off; the first area is banked round with clay, the second and succeeding pieces are ranged round the first-^blank sides being banked up, and already made " pieces " being smeared with vaseline to prevent succeeding ones from sticking to them. When the whole is complete, the inner surface is covered with boiled linseed oil; and the pieces having been fitted together are bound with string, and the^cast is made through a.hole left for the purpose.273 PLASTER- CASTING. Casting in Gelatine and Glycerine is done as follows :— (1) Preparation 0/the Material.—Take of "No. i" gelatine (this is like strong clear glue), say 6 ozs. (by weight), soak, it till quite soft and swollen, afterwards dry it slowly until just pliable. As it has now the minimum of water necessary, melt it in a water bath, and add 6 ozs. (measure) of clear glycerine (not necessarily purified). When the two are thoroughly mixed, the material is ready. To render it opacjue, add, while it is still hot and therefore fluid, small quantities of a thick paint made by rubbing up oxide of zinc in glycerine. . When a skin colour is wanted, a little vermilion is required to give a warm life-like hue. Should tumours or other objects be cast, the prevailing colour can be given with water-colour as required (tubes of moist water-colour sold at 2d. each will be found convenient). Several pounds of this mixture may be made at once. A cook is a good ally to have for the purpose. (2) Preparation of the Mould.—From the part to be cast, a mould in plaster of Paris must be taken in the ordinary way. It will be found best to limit the casts to those whose moulds can be removed from the organ or living body in one piece. When both sides are moulded at ^nce,, the gelatine cast is by no means easy to extract from the mould. After the mould has been removed from the body the cast may be taken from it at once, provided that the cast be taken out as soon as it is cool, i.e., in about 2 hours. If it be left longer the gelatine mixture becomes softened by the moisture of the plaster mould. Where a cast of a path- ological specimen has to be coloured from nature however, the sooner the colouring is done the better. The mould if not required at once should be slowly dried, soaked in alum solution, and dried again before being put away. Wten thus dried and hardened any number of casts may afterwards be taken from it without further preparation. The gelatine mixture cast then does not come off quite so easily as when the mould is moist but prolonged contact does no harm. It will be found convenient to bank up the mould with clay before pouring in the heated mixture. (3) Making the Cast.—Melt the gelatine and glycerine previously prepared, and pour it into the banked up mould, being careful to roll the melted mixture backwards and forwards well over the face of the mould, so as to get rid of air bells. As the heated substance tends at first to run into the hollows and leave the raised parts of the mould with a very thin coating, the operator must keep ladling up from the hoUovt's, and as the substance cools, it will become suflSciently tenacious to remain on the upper part. (4) Making a Plaster Bed for the Cast.—WtiA^ the cast is still in position in the mould, its reverse side must be covered with lint or wool, and this in turn covered with plaster of Paris, either pure or mixed with cotton wadding, oakum, lint, wood-wool, &c. This must be made to fit into the hollows and elevations of the back of the cast, and when set it is to be removed so as to be dried. The cast, when cold, can be easily drawn, or rather peeled, out of the mould, and it will be found to b^ an elastic cast of what is wanted. When placed upon its plaster of Paris backing, it will preserve the shape which it had while in the mould. '5) To Paint the Cast as required.—water-colours when a dry surface is to be imitated, oil-colours when the surface has to appear moist. The water-colour may require several coats. Finally, arrange an edging of black velveteen or Other material to hide the irregular margins and give a finish. ^.B.—'Vae: advantages of this method of casting are its likeness in . - ■ ■ . '18274 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. appearance and texture to flesh, and the great number of copies which may be taken from the same first mould. The disadvantages are, the possibiHty that it will not keep really good for more than eight or ten years, and the greater time required to make a cast in this than in plaster of Paris. Price.—The cost of the materials amounts to about is. 6d. per lb. of the mixture. Clay which remains always moist and ready for use may be made by mixing powdered pipe-clay with glycerine instead of with water. It should be kept in a damp place. Casting A natomical or Pathological Specimens in Papier-machd. —The ■moulds are of plaster of Paris, and the objects must be such that each mould can be lifted off from it in one piece. The interior of the mould must be well smeared with vaseline, tallow, or other greasy substance to which paste will not stick. The casts are made either of cellulose or of tough absorbent paper, such as "drying" paper. Cellulose very suitable for the purpose is sold as a surgical dressing (Robinson's cellulose dressing). This material is worked up into a thick pulp with strong flour or starch paste. The pulp is then pressed with the fingers or a spoon into the well-greased mould. When the sm-face of the mould has been uniformly covered with a layer of cellulose pulp about j of an inch thick, strips of absorbent paper moistened with starch paste are laid over the cellulose pulp, till there are several layers of paper. The last layer should consist of mushn or " butter cloth " moistened with the starch paste. If paper be employed throughout, a piece of Robinson's (Liverpool) " Robosal" blotting-paper is laid on a flat plate, and the paste is rubbed into it on both sides till the paper is limp and soft. While the softened paper is still lying flat on the plate, scraps are torn from it, so as to leave their edges frayed and thin. If necessary the paper can be torn into thin films where finer surface markings are to be cast. Beginning at the margin of the mould on one side, the operator lays on a piece of the torn softened paper, and presses it with his finger or a stiff brush firmly into the irregularities of the mould. Overlapping this, he puts on another piece, and another, and so on until the whole of the mould is covered, being careful to avoid wrinkling the soft paper. Over the first layer a second is laid, and sometimes a third. For small casts this will suflRce, but for larger casts an additional layer of " rope" brown paper or of muslin, soaked in paste as before is to be applied in the same way. It is advisable to put on all the desired layers at once, so that in drying they may shrink uniformly. It is also important to let the paper stick to the margms of the mould bv leaving them ungreased. This insures a good shape, men all the reouired layers have been put on, the cast is dried. Slow drying in free air and warmth is preferable, and takes from twenty-four to forty-eight hours but quicker drying in a slow oven may be used if need be. When the cast is dry, the inside is painted over with a coat of spirit varnish ; he paper is then cut from the mould at the margins, and the cast w-iU be found to have shrunk away slightly from the surface and thus to be loose With care it can then be worked out from the crevnceS and corners The rough edges are next trimmed with scissors and bound w° h blue paper. A thin layer of size is then laid over the cast. As Toon as this is dry the necessary painting can be carried out. Oil cotours should be used, mixed with turpentine if a dry surface is ^yanted, or mTxed wkh plenty of megilp and afterwards varnished if a moist sur- fec^ s tn be imitated. The time required for making each cast is about the same with papier-mach(5 as with other materials.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. 275 CHAPTER XXVIII. POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. Contents.—Preliminaries—Special Examination: the Head—Neck and Thorax—Heart and Lungs—Abdomen—Spinal Cord. The practitioner may be called upon to make a post-mortem examination, either in private or in a mortuary. In private practice it is well to be provided with a plentiful supply of newspapers, a couple of old sponges, mackintosh, cotton wadding, twine, and one or two jars, in addition to the usual case of instruments. One or two stoppered bottles, containing a saturated solution of corrosive subli- mate, are required to receive portions of tissues for microseopic examination, and one filled with Muller's fluid for nerve and brain preparations. Preliminaries.—It is always advisable to have an assistant to take notes as the examination proceeds, more especially in medico- legal cases. Should viscera or portions of structures be removed in such cases, they ought to be conveyed in sealed cases. The body should be lifted from the coffin, and laid on a long table. The grave- clothes should be most carefully removed, and laid aside in due order, and the pins with which they were secured retained in position for re-insertion. The general appearance and state of nutrition, rigor mortis, and hypostatic congestion should be noted, and the length of the body and its thoracic circumference ascertained. Local peculiarities, such as oedema, birth marks, deformities, cicat- rices, wounds, and the condition of the pupils should be described. Newspapers are now to be packed under and around the body. The part on which interest chiefly centres should be first examined. Special Ezaminatlon—The Head.—To reflect the scalp, the knife should be entered deeply behind the ear with the back directed towards the bone and the edge towards the skin. It is now firmly pressed against the skull-cap, and carried across the vertex to the opposite point. The two flaps thus formed are to be thrown well dpvim, detachment being effected by means of the handle of the knife, aided by a few touches with the blade. The pericranium and attachments of the temporal muscles are now divided by sweeping the scalpel around the skull, about three-quarters of an inch above the upper angle of the orbit, and half-an-inch above the occipital protuberance behind. The saw is more easily managed if the table be low. It is advisable either to stand on the left side of the cadaver, and grasp the frontal flap with the left hand, or to stand on the right side, and steady the head with the left hand wrapped in a towel. The saw is now carried, at the marked out level, lightly through the outer table, except at the temporal ridges and occipital bone, where the entire thickness of the skull-cap should be divided, care bemg taken not to injure the dura mater or the brain. The chisel may now be inserted and detachment completed by means of a few smart strokesA SURGICAL HANDBOOK. with a mallet; or by merely rotating the chisel in the saw-cut, the skull-cap may be prised off. [/« Medico-legal Cases, and where fracture of the cranium is suspected, the saw should divide the entire thickness of the bone everywhere, as the chisel is apt to make cracks and fissures. If the skull-cap be firmly adherent, as in children, the dura mater must be carefully divided all round with a probe-pointed bistoury, and the anterior and posterior attachments of the falx severed.] On removal of the calvarium, the tension and condition of the dura should be noted ; the great longitudinal sinus slit up and examined ; the anterior end of the falx cut; and the dura divided all round, so that it may be raised and its under surface studied. The pia mater and cerebral surface may now be investigated, after which the brain has to be removed as in the dissecting-room, viz. :— by raising the frontal lobes, dividing the nerves seriatim, carefully cutting the tentorium along its attachment to the temporal bone, and severing the medulla and vertebral arteries as low as possible. The brain may now be laid aside in the skull-cap, while the base of the cranium is carefully examined, its sinuses opened, the dura stripped off in a search for fractures, and the condition of the middle ear ascertained. . ^, , , • , Attention is now directed to the bram. The lateral ventricles may be laid open by horizontal slices from above downwards, and the basal ganglia exposed by transverse sections. The cerebellum is cut into vertical and transverse sections, but the nature of the examina- tion must largely depend on the character of the special lesion. Neck and Thorax—The viscera of the neck and trunk are reached by a mesial incision which extends from the chin onwards, by the left side of the umbilicus, to the pubes. By entering the peritoneal cavity at the ensiform cartilage, the fingers may be intro- duced and used as a director, so that the bowels are shielded while the abdomen is opened. The cage of the thorax is exposed by bold sweeps of the knife on the sternum and ribs. The sterno-clavicular articulations should be opened, the costal cartilages divided rather obliquely inwards close to the ribs, and the diaphragm separated below We are thus able to throw the sternum and cartilages up- wards, and to complete its disarticulation. The position and condition of the thoracic viscera may now be studied and before they are handled we should also note the condition of the abdominal organs. The skin and pectorals should be tucked over the ends of the ribs, so that the hands are protected as they are introduced to explore the pleural cavities. The pericardium is now to be opened, and the heart examined in siHi. r , Heart and Lungs.-By following the course of the blood through the heart, we arrive at a conclusion as to the amount U contains, the state of its walls, valves, and cavities. Jhe ngh auricle is opened by an incision, throwing the superior and inferior ven« cavx into one. The right ventricle is next to be laid open by an incision immediately to the right of the septum ; the left auricle by cutting from the entrance of the pulmonary veins downwards andPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. 277 forwards, in front of the appendix ; the left ventricle by an incision along its anterior surface, immediately to the left of the septum. The heart may be now removed by dividing the great vessels, and the competency of the valves and state of the coronary arteries ascertained. The lungs may next be separated, and cut in section from base to apex. If necessary, all the organs of the neck and chest may be removed en masse. This is done by dis- secting back the skin of the neck, and then thrusting the knife through the floor of the mouth, so as to divide the mucous membrane close to the jaw all round. When this is done, the tongue may be puUed downwards and outwards, and as the larynx, trachea, cesophagus, and great vessels, are pulled forwards, they may he stripped from off the prevertebral muscles and cervical vertebrae. The vessels passing over the first rib are next divided, the contents of the posterior mediastinum, as far as may be, detached from the vertebrae, and the structures piercing the diaphragm cut; whereupon we may lift out everything — and examine the parts in detaiL The larynx, trachea, bronchi, and oesophagus should be slit up. The Abdomen.—An inspection having been made prior to re- moval of the thoracic viscera, the abdominal organs may be now more carefully examined, and, if necessary, removed. For this purpose, double ligatures should be applied to the cardiac and pyloric extremities of the stomach, the beginning of the jejunum and the sigmoid flexure. The bowel may be removed for complete examination by cutting between the ligatures and dividing the omentum and mesenteries. The stomach, liver, duodenum, and pancreas may now be removed together. The duodenum should be laid open, and the patency of the bile-passages ascertained by pressing upon the gall-bladder, and by introducing a probe-pointed knife and slitting them up. Sections may be made of the liver and pancreas, and the stomach opened. The kidneys, ureter, and bladder, together with the rectum and ovaries in the female, may now be removed. The size and consistence of the kidney should be noted, and also the thickness and adhesion of the capsule. It should then be laid in halves with a knife, the pelvis opened, the ureters followed up, and the bladder incised. Tiie Spinal Cord, is reached by laying the body prone, and making a mesial incision from the ligamentum nuchae to the sacrum. The arches of the vertebrae should now be exposed, divided with saw and chisel, and removed as in the dissecting-room. At the conclusion of the autopsy the organs may be carefully replaced, and the incisions closed with a continuous suture. The body should be left exactly as found, the grave-clothes replaced, and the most scrupulous care exercised to avoid leaving even the trace of a stain. The operator's hands should be held from time to time in running water from a tap, if possible, or washed with turpentine and carbolic lotion.278 APPENDIX. A. Ambulant Treatment of Fractures. This method, extensively used in Germany and America, enables a patient to use a recently broken leg in walking, by transferring the "bearing" to a point above the seat of fracture. Although many apply the "ambulant" dressing at once, we prefer to wait until the swelling has subsided. Massage, in the form known as "effleurage," will greatly hasten this, and in two or three days the parts will be ready for the ambulant splint. During the interval the injured limb must, of course, be steadied with a "box," " Cline," " Maclntyre," or any other splint which the surgeon may be accustomed to use. Required—[l) Plaster of Paris bandages (see p. 217). (2) *A pad of cotton wool, \% to 2 ins. thick, to fit under the sole of the foot. (3) Flannel or domet bandages, some spare cotton wool and gauze. (4) A pail of water, and old sheeting or mackintosh cloth to protect the bedclothes. Two assistants are required in order to hold the leg in position. Some think that the foot should be steadied with the fingers of the assistant, some prefer to apply pieces of gauze, one to lift the heel, one to produce extension. These are afterwards included in the bandage. The surgeon begins by fixing the pad of cotton wool to the foot with a domet bandage ; in so doing he may with advantage fill up the hollow below the malleoli with cotton wool, so that the plaster bandage cannot carry the malleoli upwards when the patient is walking. The domet bandage is then carried evenly up the limb, and extends a little beyond where the plaster of Paris is expected to come. This bandage is to act as padding ; some apply the plaster of Paris next the skin, and some put on a thin layer of wool; the flannel or domet bandage, however, seems to us preferable to either of these methods. When the limb has thus been prepared for the plaster of Paris bandages they are placed in a pail of water, one or two at a time. Each must be laid vertically—with one end of the roll at the bottom, and the other towards the surface to allowAPPENDIX. 279 the air bells to escape as the water sinks in. As it is taken out, the bandac'e is ^txA\y pressed to get rid of the superfluous water, and it is then ready to be applied to the limb, which is now being held in position for the purpose. Experience has shown that the plaster case is especially apt to give way on the sole and at the ankle, and at these places an extra number of turns must be put on. The sole is thickened by bringing the bandage many times backwards and forwards from the toes to the heel, with occasional turns round the foot to keep these in position. When this part has been well begun the bandages should be carried up the leg, taking care to avoid, creases and wrinkles in the deeper parts, and especially just below the knee where the weight is to be borne. As the knee is to be left free to bend, the bandage must either stop short of the back of the knee, or, if carried up there at first, it must be afterwards cut away behind ; the first method is easier and is quite as efficient as the second, although some prefer the latter. The bandages are then laid on layer after layer until it is about nine ply thick all over, and about twelve or fifteen at the ankle and on the sole. The splint must be as tough and light as possible, therefore the various layers should be rubbed in upon one another, but no extra plaster should be added beyond what can be incorporated in the fibres of the gauze. WTien sufficient bandages have been applied, the surgeon should see that everything fits nicely about the knee ; there should especially be no pressure in the popliteal space, and the colour of the toes should be looked to. The splint can be easily moulded with the hands before the plaster sets. It is better not to put any strain on the spHnt till the plaster is not only set but dry. The patient may, therefore, with advantage be put to bed for twenty-four hours, the spHnt being meanwhile exposed to the air. At the end of this time, the patient gets up and begins to walk on the leg now encased in the sphnt. At first, of course, he can only limp and needs support, but before long he can move about with comparative freedom. A cover of felt or leather should be made to protect the case as much as possible from tear and wear. The weight of the apphance, the rigidity of the foot, and the increased length of the limb caused by the foot-pad, all taken together, make some patients despair at first of being able to walk with the splint; but in a few days they get used to the new condition of things, and in about a week they can move about with surprising activity and freedom. The splint is allowed to remain on until the fracture has had time to consolidate. When it is removed, the condition of the limb is carefully examined, and if union has taken place the patient is encouraged to use the leg more and more. The same principles may be carried out in Fracture of the Thigh.APPENDIX. 2S0 B. The Microscopical Examination of Secretions and Discharges. The microscopical examination of secretions and discharges has now become almost as much a matter of routine as the examination of the urine. The presence of organisms in wounds, blood, or pathological products is of great significance and mterest. An Abba's condenser and high magnifying powers are to be employed. The fluid should be obtained fresh, and spread on very fine cover-glasses. It is ob\'ious that cover-glasses and instruments must be absolutely pure. The glasses, if dirty, should be soaked in nitric acid, and may always be kept for use in strong acetic acid, from which they are removed and dried with a clean cloth before use. A drop of the discharge to be examined is lifted on the point of a needle—which has just been purified by heating to redness—and spread in a fine film over the surface of the cover-glass. A couple of films may be obtained by placing a drop between two glasses and pulling them asunder. The film is then carefully and thoroughly dried by holding it for a little while above the lamp. Finally, just before staining, the cover-glass should be drawn thrice through the flame of a Bunsen burner at the rate of a long pendulum swing; this fixes the film, and makes it stain more readily. Staining.—Place on the film for sixty seconds a drop of a 2 per cent, watery solution of methyl aniline blue, with 20 per cent, absolute alcohol added ; wash off with a gentle stream of distilled water, and examine. In the case of blood, the stain should be a half-saturated alcohohc solution. Gram's Method.—Prepare a watery solution of aniline oil by putting a few drops of the oil into a test-tube, adding about half an ounce of water, and after shaking, filter. Add to this, in the proportion of 1 to 10, a saturated alcoholic solution of gentian or methyl blue. Let the cover glasses stain in this for fifteen to thirty minutes. [Sec- tions require twice as long.] Then at once place, them in Gram's-fluid —Iodine, i part; iodide of potassium, 2 parts ; water, 300 parts ; or as a substitute for this, add tincture or liniment of iodine to water, till of a dark-sherry colour. They should remain in this till of a dark-brown or black colour. They should next be transferred to absolute alcohol to decolorise, and then placed in a weak watery solution of Bismarck brown or eosine for the contrast stain, after which they should be washedAPPENDIX. 281 in distilled water, laid to drain on blotting-paper, end on, and, before mounting, held about ij^ foot above the lamp to dry. A drop of Canada balsam dissolved in xylol serves for mounting. The bacilli of tubercle may be stained after the manner of Gibbes, with whose reagents full instructions are supplied. The following method, a modification of Neelsen's, has also been recommended :— Fuchsine, 2 grammes = 2 per cent. Absolute alcohol, 20 cub. cent., . . = 20 ,, Water, containing 5 per cent, of carbolic acid, 80 cub. cent., . . . . = 80 ,, Place some of the solution in a watch glass over a spirit-lamp, and float the cover-glasses; film downwards, on the stain. Heat gently, till steam rises, for five minutes. Place in 25 per cent, sulphuric acid for one second; transfer to absolute alcohol till decolorised. A contrast stain is now got by placing the cover-glasses in watery solution of methylene blue for half a minute, after which they must be washed in distilled water and mounted. The tubercle bacilli come out pink, and other organisms and structures blue. In order to obtain satisfactory evidence of the presence of tubercle bacilli in the urine, it is best to have a catheter specimen. The catheter should be boiled and lubricated with glycerine, while the meatus should be washed with corrosive lotion and then with sterile water. The urine is then received into a sterile vessel. We thus avoid any external con- tamination, more especially that of the smegma bacillus, an organism which, in appearance and behaviour under staining reagents, so re- sembles the tubercle bacillus that it is not readily differentiated. Gonorrliceal Pus.—The characteristic gonococci are most plentiful during the early acute stage. The film may be examined after staining with methyl blue in the ordinary fashion. Gonococci are distinguished, not only by their appearance, but also by their reaction to staining reagents. Thus, in a case of mixed infection, where other microbes abound, we find that the gonococci become decolorised by the use of Gram's method; and further, if we now treat the preparation with the carbolic fuchsine used for tubercle, only diluted 10 times with water, the gonococci take up this stain, and so present a marked contrast to the other organisms. Diphtlierla.—The Loffler bacillus may be found in quantity on a membrane, and a film preparation is easily made. In many cases, how- ever, a culture is necessary to make a definite diagnosis. Valuable information on this point will be found in the Handbook of the Clinical Research Association, and where practitioners are not in touch with some of the well-known laboratories of the medical schools, they will do well to avail themselves of the services of the Association.* Antitoxins of various kinds have been administered for the purpose of conferring a more or less enduring immunity against certain diseases or of curing them when they have been contracted. The beneficial action of the diphtheria antitoxin is well established. Its use should be begun early. The preparations issued by Haefliger & Co. of Bern (Prof Tavel's), by Schering (Aronson's), and by the British Institute of Preventive Medicine are to be had at most leading dealers, and directions for use are issued along with the drug. The value of the tetanus antitoxin is not so apparent. * Address, i Southwark Street, London Bridge, S.E.282 APPENDIX. Streptococcus antitoxin seems to have been useful in certain pyaemic cases, and Watson Cheyne believes he has had excellent results from its employment prior to operations on the throat and mouth where absolute antiseptic precautions were, of course, not possible. It is obvious that it cannot effect any good where the staphylococcus is the noxious agent, and a reliable staphylococcus antitoxin is still a desideratum. The preparations used should be clear, sterile, and procured from a reliable source. There are special hypodermic syringes used for administration, which can be sterilised by boiling before and after use. C Instruments and Appliances for various Operations. Previous to an operation, and preferably the night before, it is well to lay out the necessary instruments and, in addition, others which are likely to be required, should any complications or emergency arise. If the steps of the operation be gone over seriatim, and each instrument selected as it would come into use, there is little chance of any omission. In the following lists, the requirements at the more common major operations have been mentioned; but in order to avoid repetition, the first two lists on Anassthesia and General Requisites have been given separately, and must be added to each of the others. Immediately after iise, the instruments must be carefully cleansed and dried, and again inspected before being put away. I. For Anaesthesia (see page 12).—Chloroform, ether, h}'podermic syringe, strychnine, artery forceps (Fig. 19), towel or inhaler, gag. II. General Requisites.—Forceps—dissecting, dressing, artery, com- pression (as Kocher's, &c.)—aneurism needle, director, retractors and blunt hooks, scissors, needles, silk, catgut, drainage tubes, sponges, syringe, lotions, dressings, bandages, safety-pins, mackintosh, razor to shave with. III. Amputations.—Tourniquets ; amputating knives—these, if to be used for transfixion, should be half as long again as the diameter of the limb to be removed; saws, bone- and lion-forceps, splints; also I. and II. IV. Excisions.—Tourniquets, strong bistouries, periosteum detachers, butcher and ordinary saws ; bone-, lion-, and necrosis-forceps; gouge, sharp spoon, splints ; also I. and II. V. Necrosis.—Tourniquets, probe, bistouries, periosteum detacher, gouge, mallet and chisel, bone- and necrosis-forceps, splints; also I. and II. VI. T7-ephi7iing.— Bistouries, periosteum detacher, trephines, Hey's and Gigli's saws, elevators, gouge-forceps, fine aspirator needle, sinus forceps, tooth-picks ; I. and II. VII. Operations on Jaws and Excision of Tongue.—Tooth forceps, m6uth gag, bistouries, metacarpal saw, bone-forceps, lion-forceps, strong scissors, vulsellum [bradawl and wire]; small sponges, firmly secured to holders, or tied on sticks, are required ; and if a preliminary tracheotomy be employed, or a tube passed into the larynx, the suitable instruments must also be provided ; I. and II. VIII. Tracheotomy (see page 96). IX. Excision of Breast, Ligature oj Vessel, Hernia, and Operations on Rectum and ^/zmj.—Bistouries, and I. and II.; Macewcn's hernia needles.APPENDIX. 283 X Operations on Urethra.—boracic lotion, and syphon or svrint'e' catheters, silver and gum-elastic; grooved staff, grooved probe, Syme^'staff, instruments for internal urethrotomy, bistouries, gum- elastic catheter; carbolic oil, i'20 ; I. and II. XI. Operation for Stone.—WsLvm boracic lotion, and syphon or syringe; sound, catheters. CrajA;>/°-.—Bougies for dilating urethra, tenotomy knife, lithotrites, set of evacuators and washer out, extra pillow for pelvis. C2^//i«'^.—Lithotomy knives and staff, bistouries, lithotomy-for- ceps and scoop, Petersen's rectal tampon, blunt hooks and retractors, lithotomy tube ; also I. and II. XII Operations involving the Peritoneal Cavity and Colotomy.— Intestinal clamps, Paul's tubes, Murphy's buttons, intestine silk, fine needles, needle holder. Where a cyst has to be removed, an aspirator or ovariotomy trocar must be in readiness; also numerous large cyst and pressure-forceps, and pedicle clamps. In every case, the instruments and sponges are to be carefully counted before and after operation. The lotions should be heated, and the sponges and towels also wrung out of warm lotion. A long mounted needle is often useful in dealing°with renal and biliary calculi; also I. and II, D. Various Practical Hints and Suggestions. Extraction of Teeth.—The two chief points requiring attention in the extraction of teeth are (i) to get a firm hold of a strong part of the tooth as far up the fang as possible ; {2) to loosen the tooth before trying to draw it out. (1) Since many teeth which require extraction have their crowns more or less softened with decay, the need of taking a firm deep hold will be all the more apparent. The forceps must first be fitted accurately round the neck of the tooth, but not tight enough to hold it; they must then be pushed firmly, and often heavily, between the tooth and its sur- rounding gum and alveolus before the grasp is tightened. In the upper jaw, while the patient leans well back with the mouth open, the operator can easily press his forceps upwards. In the louver jaw,_ how- ever, a different manoeuvre is necessary. After the forceps, held in the operator's right hand, have been fitted on to the neck of the tooth, the operator presses them down with the thumb of his left hand placed upon them within the mouth, while the rest of the fingers of this hand are outside the mouth and grasp the lower jaw from below. (2) As soon as the operator has, in either of these ways, taken a firm grasp of the tooth, he begins to rock it in its socket, pressing always more forcibly outwards, towards the cheek, than inwards. When, by this lateral movement, the tooth has been "started" from its socket, a drawing movement must be added, and, by a combination of the two, the tooth will be extracted. The outward pressure is more effectual than inward pressure would be, partly because the outer wall of the sockets is much thinner than the inner wall, and hence more easily yields, and partly because the fangs of the teeth are broader externally than internally, and hence would resist pressure inwards more effectually than pressure outwards. Instruments Rtquired (according to J. Smith).*—"Five pairs oJ • Not?? on Dental Surgery, by J. Smith, M.D., LL.D., &c, 1887 : Maclachlan & Stewart, Edinburgh.APPENDIX, 384 forceps will be found serviceable for most purposes, and fewer will not. These are a straight pair, and a pair with the blades nearly at right angles with the handles, both of which will be required for upper and lower roots, and single-fanged teeth; a pair adapted for the lower molars, and two pairs for the upper molars—one for the right and one for the left sides. Many other forms would be desirable, and may be collected, but these five pairs will be found absolutely necessary. It has been stated that the blades at their extremities should fit that part of the tooth they are intended to grasp. In this way it will be seen that for single-fanged teeth these blades will merely require to be adapted for the oval form presented by a transverse section of such fangs hollowed out, in fact, so as to apply themselves more closely to their surface. For multiple-fanged teeth, the forceps must also be on the same principle, adapted to the form of the surface to which they are to be applied. One pair will be found to answer for the double-fanged molars of the lower jaw ; but for the three-fanged molars of the upper jaw, two pairs will be necessary, as these three fangs are always so placed that two of them are next the cheek and one towards the palate; consequently, the forceps which would fit one side will not at all fit the other. With this number of forceps, properly constructed, almost any case of extraction may be undertaken where forceps can be used at all." How to give a Hypodermic Injection.—To avoid the risk of mis- take, the amount of the drug injected should always be calculated rather than the number of minims of solution. This is necessary, because the same drug is often prescribed for subcutaneous injection in solutions of different strengths. Having determined the quantity of fluid to be injected, the operator either leaves only that amount in the syringe, or, having filled the syringe, adjusts the screw on the piston, when that special form of instrument is used. Next, he raises the needle end of the syringe, taps it to cause air-bells to rise, and gently expels them. Then, with the left forefinger and thumb, he pinches up a fold of skin, and, after dipping the needle into carbolised oil, boldly plunges it through to the loose subcutaneous tissue, into which he slowly and steadily drives the fluid. Finally, laying his left forefinger over the point of entrance, he with- draws the needle, and gently rubs the injected fluid into the surrounding tissue. Before use, an antiseptic lotion should be run through the syringe and needle. After use, the syringe and needle should be washed out with warm water. Then the wire should be inserted into its interior. One or other of two forms of syringe are used—one where the number of minims is marked on the glass barrel of the syringe, the other where an adjustable screw is fitted to the piston rod, so that it may be brought to a stop at any desired point. The measurement markings are in this case made on the piston rod, so that by adjusting the screw any given portion of the fluid may be injected from a full syringe. Lumbar Puncture.—This procedure is employed either for diag- nostic purposes or as a means of treatment. After injuries to the head the presence of blood-stained fluid under abnormally high tension in the lower part of the spinal subarachnoidAPPENDIX. 285 space may help the surgeon to decide in favour 01 trephining. In nieninsitis the fluid drawn oft" by lumbar puncture should be examined by sfiTnino- and culture for micro-organisms, and by staining for the nature of°the cells present. "In health ... the cerebro-spinal fluid contains scarcely any cellular elements, no polynuclear leucocytes, and verv scanty, sma'll mono-nuclear cells or lymphocytes. ... In acute m'icrobic aftections of the meninges, large polynuclear leucocytes are found, whereas in sub-acute or chronic affections, including tubercle, small mono-nuclear lymphocytes occur" [Pun>es Stewart). In meningitis from any cause, the relief from headache and torpor, and even from unconsciousness, which is afforded by drawing off fluid by lumbar puncture is often most striking. ' In tuberculous and many septic cases the relief is only temporary, but in others it is followed by progressive improvement. Method of performing Lumbar Puncture.—The patient, bending the spine forwards as much as possible, so as to open up the space between the laminEe of the lumbar vertebrae, may be either in the sitting or the hnng posture. The skin over the lower lumbar region is thoroughly cleansed first with soap and water, and then with 1-20 carbolic or other antiseptic solution of similar strength. For an adult a hollow needle from 3 to 6 inches in length, and rather thicker than a hypodermic needle, is selected, and boiled. A "serum " needle or large hypodermic needle will suffice for a child. Since the fluid flows out as soon as the cavity is reached, the needle need not be attached to its syringe. The interval selected is usually that between the fourth and fifth lumbar lamina which corresponds with a line drawn between the highest parts of the iliac crests. The spot selected is either exactly between the fourth and fifth spines, or about K an inch on either side of the spines. Iodine painted on the selected spot is a useful guide. Freezing with ethyl chloride or ether is an advantage. The needle, after piercing the skin, is pushed steadily inwards and slightly upwards. Lessened resistance indicates the arrival of the point within the canal, and after the dura mater has been pierced the fluid drops from the needle. How to give an Enema.—Enemata or clysters are used for many purposes:— (ij For Clearing out the Rectum.—For this purpose a large amount of fluid, a pint or more, is required, of warm water, either plain or made more stimulating by the addition of soap-suds, common salt (2 table- spoonfuls per pint), castor oil to i oz.), turpentine (i oz.), sulphate of magnesia (i oz.). Glycerine in small quantity also acts most rapidly and efficiently, and may be employed as an enema (1-2 drachms injected with a small syringe), or as a suppository either of strong glycerine jelly or saturated on a plug of cotton wool about the size of a filbert nut. Some patients, after a soap and water enema, are troubled with an erythematous rash of the skin, which may cause considerable irritation, and last some days. It may cause alarm, but is not serious. (2) For Cleansing the Mucous Membrane, when it is ulcerated or diseased.—For this purpose, although an enema of Condy's fluid or other weak antiseptic solution may be employed, a better way is toAPPENDIX. 286 irrigate the rectum. Two tubes or large-sized catheters should be passed into the rectum—one to carry in the fluid, the other to lead it away. A douche can or Iligginson's syringe may be used. (3) For Nourishing the Paiient.—When the stomach cannot retain food or drink, or where complete rest to the alimentary canal is required, the absorptive power of the rectum must be utilised. As the rectal mucous membrane cannot digest, all nutrient enemata should be pre- digested. Moreover, to ensure retention, the amount at each injection should not exceed 2 ounces. When this form of alimentation is continued for long, the rectum should be cleaned out every second or third day by a large enema of hot water (see also p. 11). When, with intense sickness, great thirst is complained of, frequent 6 ozs. enemata of warm water will give much relief. (4) For Stopping Diarrhoea.—An enema of 6 ozs. of starch, in which J4 drm. of tinctura opii is suspended, will sometimes be successful when the mucous membrane of the lower end of the bowel is involved. In Receiving an Enema, the patient should recline on the left side with a towel or mackintosh below him to catch any drippings. As Symington has pointed out, the lowest portion of the rectum is always firmly closed by the immediate contact of its walls. For from half to three-quarters of an inch, therefore, the injection nozzle, preceded by a well-oiled finger, must be firmly and steadily pushed upwards and slightly forwards, until it gets through this elongated barrier. It is then to be directed' somewhat backwaids. After it has got through the outer barrier, the nozzle can be retained with ease ; but short of this, it will be ejected at once. The same applies to the introduction of sup- positories. Some patients prefer to introduce the enema nozzle them- selves. The form of instrument most frequently used is a Higginson's syringe. With this, by working a ball, a continuous stream can be produced in one direction. A syphon, or funnel with tube attached, would, however, serve the purpose equally well, and be much simpler (p. 254). As soon as the nozzle is in position, the fluid must be slowly and steadily pumped in, or allowed to flow in. How to make Poultices.—Poultices are now much less used than they were. When required, the material chiefly used in hospitals for making them is linseed meal; but oatmeal, starch, bread, bran, &-c., may also be employed. Care must be taken in making poultices that they should turn out neither too dry nor too moist. (i) To make a Poultice of Lijiseed.—Have a kettle of water boiUng, linseed meal, two kitchen bowls (i large, i small), a spatula, old linen, 1 or 2 heated plates. First put some boiling water into the laigcr basin, into this basin place the smaller one, which must have previously been heated by allovi-ing boiling water to stand in it for a minute or two. Put the linseed meal required into the smaller basin, pour in boihng water gradually, and beat with the spatula into a thick paste. Now take one of the heated plates, lay out on it the linen in which the poultice is to be placed, and spread over it quickly with the spatula the mixture from the basin. Dip the spatula into the larger basin of boiling water, otherwise the mixture will stick to it, and not spread freely on the linen. The poultice should be about Yi, inch thick all over,APPENDIX. 287 and a margin of about inch should be left all round the linen to llOTi up over the edge of the poultice. If the poultice has to be carried some distance to the patient, it should be placed between two heated plates. The poultice should be gently applied, and, in the event of there bein" much discharge from the wound, lay some absorbent cotton wool round it • over the poultice a piece of waterproof matenal; and then cotton wool or flannel to retain the heat better. The poultice should be n.'ied in its place by a bandage or handkerchief. Poultices should be applied as hot as the patient can bear them, without any material between the sore and tlie mixture, otherwise their value is diminished. They should be changed at least every three hours. The poultice should at once be burned after removal. (2) Oatmeal Poultices ai'e made in the same way as linseed, but some authorities recommend that the meal should be previously boiled. (3) Bread Poultices. — Boil some stale bread with water for five minutes. Drain off the water, and spread the bread on a piece of hnen. A few drops of warm oil should be placed on the poultice, and so prevent it from sticking to the patient. (4) Bran Poultices are made by pour-ing boiling water on to the re- quired quantity of bran, and stirring well. Antiseptic Precautions.—To any of the above poultices there may be added powdered charcoal, powdered boracic acid, or. iodoform, to diminish foetor and fermentation. The material should also be freely dusted over the surface of the sore, before the poultice is applied. (5) Mustard Poultice.—?^S!ang mustard leaves, either spread mustard, prepared as if for use at table, on hnen, or simply shake dry mustard over a Unseed poultice, and then apply it to the patient. 16) Boric Starch Poultice (CoW).—Add a teaspoonful of powdered boric acid to four tablespoonfuls of cold water starch, mix with a little cold water, ihen pour in a pint of boiling water, and stir till melted; let stand till cold ; spread the cold sta»ch thickly on pieces of cotton, cover with muslin, and apply to the part, changing the poultices every few hours, before they become hard. How to Cleanse and Purify Sponges.—Sponges, when new, are to be repeatedly washed out of hot water, dried, and beaten until the sand is shaken out. Some recommend that they should then be steeped in an 8 per cent, solution of hydrochloric acid, until all calcareous particles are dissolved. They are then to be stored in 1-20 carbolic acid, and kept ready for use. After having been used at Operations for some time.—(i) Free them from grease by steeping in a concentrated solution of washing soda. (2) Then soak for twenty-four hours in permanganate of potash i gr. to I 07.., and wash again in clean water. {3) Soak in i per cent, solution of commercial salt of sub-sulphite ol soda with 8 per cent, pure concentrated hydrochloric acid (in 24 ozs. of water, 3i of the soda, and .5ij of the acid) until (in about a quarter of an hour) they have become white. (4) Again wash in water until scentless, and store in 5 per cent, carbolic acid. Sponges used in abdominal surgery should be stored apart, and u.scd for nothing else. (In ordinary cases, after operations, the second and third directions may be omitted.) During an operation sponges should be squeezed dry of blood, and wrung out of 1-40 carbolic or 1-2000 corrosive sublimate lotion.288 APPENDIX. In all cases where putrid discharges have to be soaked up, masses of absorbent wool should be used instead of sponges. How to Fill a Water-bed —This should be done after it has been laid on the bed. The water must be warm, and should only about half fill the water-bed. To avoid the disagreeable rumbling, so often noticed when the water-bed is moved in any way, we must get rid of the air as follows :—After the water-bed has been filled, lift up the part to which the filler is attached, either by tilting the bedstead or by lifting the water-bed with the hands. Now partially roll up the other end of the water-bed ; as this is done the air will be pressed out, and when there seems no more to come, screw on the cap and let the water-bed return to its place. About once a month a little water should be added to the water-bed. Directions for Using a Catheter when the Patient can pass it himself.—Required—K bottle of 1-2000 corrosive sublimate or bin- iodide of mercury lotion ; carbolic oil 1-30, or eucalyptus oil 1-20; a clean glass syringe, holding 3 or 4 ozs. ; a scalded bowl or dish ; boric lint; long paper envelopes ; soap and water, and clean towel. (1) Arrange the apparatus in a convenient way. (2) Wash the hands well with soap and water, then with the lotion. (3) Syringe lotion through the catheter, and let it lie in the lotion. (4) Wash the orifice of the urethra and glans penis with a piece of the lint dipped in the lotion. (5) Remove the catheter from the lotion, shake off superfluous fluid, and after smearing it with the lubricant insert it along the urethra into the bladder. (6) After withdrawing the catheter, wash it well with soap and water, and run first water then lotion through it. Dip it in the lotion, then wrap it in a clean piece of boric lint, and lay it in an envelope till required. It is a good plan to order about 4 ozs. of the lubricant, along with an empty ounce bottle of long shape. The smaller bottle only is used for lubricating, and its contents are thrown away and renewed at least once a week. A red rubber catheter should be employed if possible, as it can be boiled. This should be done at least once a week as an e.>£tra precau- tion. Gum elastic catheters are spoiled by boiling. Lubricant of Oscar Krauss for Urethral Instruments:— Gum tragacanth, 2 grs. 50. Glycerine 10 granmies. Carbolic lotion, 3 per cent 90 ,,APPENDIX. 289 E. Various Formulae (for Lotions, Caustics, &o.) Uretliral Injections.—[a.) Antiseptic.—Watery solution of pro- targol, ■< to I per cent. Watery solution of siilpho-ichthyolate of ammonium, 2^ to 5 per cent. Sulpho-carbolate of zinc, 2 grs. to i oz.; corrosive sublimate, }^ gr. to i oz. (nearly 1-4000); chloride of zinc, to I gr. to the i oz.; boracic acid, saturated. {b.) Astringent.—Acetate of lead, i to 2 grs. to i oz. : sulphate of zinc, 2 grs. to 1 oz. ; nitrate of silver, gr. to i oz. ; alum, 5 grs. to I oz. Evaporating Lotion.—R. Ammonias chloridi, §i; spirit, rect., §1; water, 5.x. To this gi of dilute acetic acid may be added. Caustics.—(i) Vienna Paste.—Caustic potash, 5 drms.; slaked lime, 6 drms.: rectified spirit sufficient to make a mass. Spread on the part to be cauterised, and allow it to remain for 10 or 15 minutes. Sur- rounding skin protected by adhesive plaster {Squire). (For epithelial surfaces.) (2) Sulphuric Acid,—Made into a paste with charcoal or sawdust applied to the desired place for 8 to 10 hours in a guttapercha tube softened and fitted close. (For sloughy and hasmorrhagic tumours.) (3) Bougaris Paste.—Mix in a glass or china mortar, wheat flour, 60 grms. ; powdered starch, 60 grms. ; powdered arsenic, r grm. ; cinnabar, 5 grms. ; sal ammoniac, 5 grms. ; corrosive sublimate, 0-50 grm. ; add slowly solution of chloride of zinc at 52° (C.), 245 grms., stirring well. In a covered jar this may be kept for months. (4) Chloride of Zinc, d'.;liquesced and made into a paste, with equal parts of flour, may be applied directly, or in lint or gauze, and kept on from 3 to 24 hours. (5) L-unds Styptic Discs.—Steep blotting-paper in alcoholic solution of tannic acid—45 grs. to absolute alcohol i drm. ; dry, and cut into small pieces for application to bleeding points. (6) Lunds Application for Strumous Glands.—iod., 3iv; amm. bromid. 3ij; glycerini, 3i; aq. rosae, gi. Mix and add sp. vin. rect. q.s., ad. giv. Paint on " many times during 24 hours." (7) Horsley's Wax.—Cerae alb., 3ij; ceras flav., 3iv ; acid, carbolic, 5s3 ; vaselini, ,3iv. Used as a styptic, to be rubbed into bleeding bony surfaces. Mouth Wash, recommended by Mr. Guy.—Phenol, 5'; sodii hydroxide, grs. x; glycerine, 3iv; aq. rosae, ad. giv. If colouring is required add tr. lavand. co., otxx. Two teaspoonfuls in a wine-glass- ful of water to be used as a mouth wash, 19APPENDIX. Sawdust Bags as an Antiseptic Dressing.—Drs. A. and E. Neve, of Cashmir, have used bags of sawdust for many years in their extensive surgical practice. They are pupils of Lister, and thorough anti- septicians. As adapted to this country, the following method has been used with much succe-ss in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. The bags are made of opened bleach gauze, such as is used for swabs, and are in three convenient sizes—4 x 6 inches, 6x8 inches, and 10 x 12 inches, or thereabouts :— The sawdust should be of pine wood, the softer the better, so as to •'et absorption into the wood as well as between the particles. The coarse fragments are first removed by means of a sieve. The bags are partially filled {i.e., so that they may adapt themselves easily), and stitched up by a convalescent patient or a nurse. They are then sterilised by steam, and removed from the "kettle" or packet by the surgeon when the wound is being dressed. The sawdust diffuses the discharge better than absorbent wool, or, in fact, than any other dressing with which we are acquainted. Its cheapness is self-evident. The objections to it are its bulkiness and weight in certain positions. In most instances, however, these qualities are an advantage in causing the dressing to act as a splint. A layer of bicyanide gauze is laid next the wound; then the bags are fitted in position, and secured with a bandage. The preliminary soaking in corrosive sublimate recommended by Dr. Neve is probably unnecessary, because the mercuric salt will be decomposed by the sterilisation in steam. The risks of discharge soaking beyond the aseptic area would certainly be much less with sawdust than with cotton wool.APPENDIX. 291 Fig 198.—Metal box or casket used for the Dressing &c in the Steam Steriliser.292 APPENDIX. Appendix F. L Steam Sterillaer« for Dressings and Instruments,—Steam sterilisers, on the pcinciple introduced by Schimmelbusch (-Fig. 197), are managed as follows:—Kill ihe boiler by means of a filler through the tube E, to the level of the arrow mark — x. Place the leaden steam exit pipe in She bucket K, which should be half filled with cold water. Fill the metal boxes (Fig. 198) With the dressings, aprons, and towels required. See that the perforations are open, and place the boxes within the steriliser. Put on the heavy lid and screw it down. Plug the lid with cork and thermometer T, cork the tube E. Light the large gas Bunsen beneath the boiler G. The temperature should be maintained at about 100° C. for one hour. During this time the steam penetrates the dressings thoroughly, -and the steam escapes, condensing, into the bucket. Now extinguish the light, and remove the cork. Let the steam escape, and proceed to remove the lid. This should be done by liartiaUy loosening all the screws S, seriatim, and then freeing thetn completely. The boxes are now lifted out; the perforations closed, and the contents are ready for use. II. Simple Form of Steriliser.—This, which is much cheaper, is quite as efficient, and in some ways more useful than Schimmelbusch's pattern. It consists of an oval tin pot (A) like a fish kettle, measuring Fig. 199.—Cathcart's Steriliser. 16 inches long, by 9 inches wide at its' broadest part, and 10 inches deep. It IS .<;urrounded, except where the lid fits on, by a larger vessel (B) of similar shaoe. an inch of space being left between them, in the outer chamber there are (i) the hole for filling in the water, or letting out the steam when so desired, a cork to plug the hole being chained beside it; (2) an exit tap for emptying out the water; (3) a stop-cock which, when turned on, opens steam communication between the upper part of the outer chamber and the lower part of the inner one half way Slong one side (the pioe which conducts the steam is shown by a dotted line in the diagram); and (4) a water gauge, not shown in the d^gram^ The hd fits firmly and closely into the top. but no attempt is made to make the junction steam-tight. In order to reduce as far as possible the condensation which is apt to occur on the under surface of the ud it is made double with an air space of about K of ^^'^f^^f^^^^^^^^ layers, and over the top is spread a loose cover of non-conducting "^The^size of the apparatus permits of its being placed on any kitchen293 APPENDIX. range, the steam escaping by the chimney ; but if desired it can be heated by a gas or paraffin flame. When heating the contents of the inner chamber (before and after sterilisation) the cork is left out of the filling hole (i) and the stop-cock (3) is closed. When steam is to be introduced the stop-cock is opened and the fiUing hole plugged with the cork. Should by mischance the stop-cock be closed while the hole is also plugged there will be no exit for the steam in the outer chamber, but the cork will be blown out before the pressure gets very high. In order to hasten the drying of the contents of the steriliser after the steam has been shut off, it is advisable to loosen and slightly raise the lid. A "kettle" or dressing box could be adapted to this form of steriliser, but is not necessary. When used to prepare dressings in a private hospital, or in the patient's house, the steriliser itself can be used as a " kettle," wuth the advantage of keeping everything hot if the hot water be allowed to remain in the outer chamber. For ordinary private work, however, another method is preferaole. Instead of sterilising for each Fig. 20O. —Instrument Steriliser, with Lift-out Tray and Spirit Lamp, to carry in Surgeon's bag. Interior size, 13 x 14 in. operation the articles required for it, sterilise what we may call dressing or operation "imils," and keep them ready, wrapped in packets. These units can be put together in any proportion at a moment's notice. Thus sets of artificial sponges of various kinds, for big or small operations, nail-brushes in pairs, balls or lengths of gauze, operation cloths, aprons, and so on, are laid in the steriliser, each on a piece of strong kitchen paper large enough to wrap it up in securely, everything being, of course, kept open and free to allow of the circulation of the steam. After sterilisation the contents are dried for thirty or forty minutes, and then, with surgically purified hands, the parcels arc wrapped up, and the contents indicated on each with ink. The packages, if sealed with wax, and laid away in a drawer with a clean cloth over them, are quite safe against contamination. By adopting this plan the surgeon not only avoids the trouble of frequent sterilisation, but is able to start for an operation at any moment294 APPENDIX. —night or day—with ihe sterilised articles ttiat he may require for any particular case. The maker of both is Mr. A. Gilchrist, 22 Nicolson St., Edinburgh. Nurse Ibbotson has a simple plan for bandages or towels used in dressing cases in private houses. She wraps the articles to be sterilised in two cloths or towels, and steams them in a potato steamer for an hour, over the kitchen fire. She then places the whole parcel to dry in the oven with the door not quite closed. When the articles are dry. she removes the outer of the two towels, and keeps the articles wrapped in the inner one till they are needed. Other forms of portable sterilisers for instruments are in the market, such as Fig. 200. The lamp, supports, and instruments required may all be packed within the steriliser together with reels of silk. The pan should be filled with hot water to which carbonate of soda has been added (a tablespoonful to the quart), in this the instruments are boiled for ten or fifteen minutes immediately before use, and are then transferred in the lift-out tray to cold carbolic lotion. If they ai-e carefully cleaned and dried after the operation there is little trouble from rust, and if they be nickel-plated there is none at all. Substitute for Glass Instrument Cases.— With the object of preserving surgical instru- ments from dust, it is now the fashion to keep them in cases made entirely of glass and iron, and furnished with doors which fit air-tight. A simpler and much cheaper plan consists in keeping groups of instruments in separate glass jars. Confectionery jars are the best for the purpose, because they have no neck or constric- tion at the top, and being largely used for their own purpose, are sold very cheaply. The lid fits loosely, and by pasting a layer of cotton wool along the part where it comes against the rim, we can ensure that the junction is practi- cally dust-proof (Fig. 200a). A ground glass stopper, while not more efficient as a pre- ventive against dust, is much more expensive, and not so readily taken out and put in. A number of jars, of various sizes, having been cleaned and provided with the cotton wool fitting, can be sterilised and dried in the steriliser just described, if so desired, although rinsing with 1-20 carbolic and drying before the fire seems sufficient. In these jars the instruments are placed in sets, those required for similar purposes being kept by themselves as far as the size will allow. Big. 200^1.APPENDIX. 295 G. Us& of the Cystoscope. It is well to ascertain some time before the examination that the lu-eihra is not contracted. If necessai-y bougies should be passed. The patient should drink at least half a pint of water or weak tea half an hour before the examination, to ensure a free flow of urine from the ureters. The bladder should be washed out if pus or blood be present. In men it is generally advisable to instil a few drops of 20 per cent, solution of cocaine into the prostatic urethra a few minutes before the examination. Adrenalin chloride may be of use in several ways. Thus, 20 to 30 drops of the i-iooo solution instilled into the membranous and prostatic vu-ethra will check the bleeding which is sometimes set up by the passage of the instrument; if there is oozing from the bladder wall so as to obscure the field of vision, filling the interior of the bladder WTth a weak solution of adrenalin for a few minutes generally enables the examination to be made without difficulty. Bleeding into the ' bladder in spite of the adrenalin probably comes from the kidney. The cystoscope should be tested before use. By looking through the tube in daylight objects should be quite distinct at distances of from J< to 2 inches from the prism. Whatever battery is employed (see p. 193), the current should be gradually turned on (the cystoscope being immersed in fluid) to a little beyond the point when the glow prevents the eye from recognising the threads of the lamp. Thus, besides the cystoscope and battery, we should have ready— (1) Soft catheter, warm boric lotion, and funnel or syringe for washing out the bladder (see p. g). (2) Acorn-headed catheter (the same catheter as was used for washing out will suffice if the acorn-headed kind is not available) and small syringe for instilling cocaine or adrenalin solution. (3) Bottles of adrenalin solution and of 20 per cent, cocaine solution. (4) Glycerine as a lubricant.296 APPENDIX. Appendix H. Preservation of Pathological Specimens with Natural Colour Retained.—The method of lores which is a modification of that introduced by Melnikow Raswedenkow has been tested by T. Shennan, in Edinburgh, and has given most excellent results. Solutions required:— (1) Sodium Chloride, i part. Magnes. Sulphate, 2 parts. Sodium Sulphate, 2 ,, Water, 100 ,, (2) Formalin as sold {i.e., a saturated solution of Formalde- hyde gas (40 per cent.) in water. A. is a 5 per cent, solution of (2) in (1). B. Methylated spirit—i.e., about 94 per cent, alcohol and water. C. Equal parts of glycerine and water. First wash all free blood and blood clot from the specimen, then, if possible, cut specimen into slices of about i inches thick, and steep in solution A for 48 hours (according to size of specimen 24 to 36 hours), change the solution if it gets turbid. The specimen at this stage will be blanched. Now lay it in a dish or plate and pour B over it to wash off A, but no water must be used. Next steep specimen in B till the colour returns, this will take about 24 hours; to prolong the stay in spirit only bleaches the specimen again. Transfer into C, in which the specimen will float until the spirit is replaced by the glycerine. After 2 or 3 weeks mount in a fresh supply of C and seal down. Before the permanent mounting it is sometimes an advantage to take a thin slice off the surface of the section—a brighter colour and better differentiation of Darts are thus obtained.297 APPENDIX. Appendix I. Preparation of Catgut.—Catgut is made from the intestine of the sheep by scraping away the mucous membrane, and the peritoneal and muscular coats, thus leaving only the delicate sub-mucotis co?inective tissue. This is twisted and dried, as a whole, or in strips according to the thickness required. Sterilising Deliydrated Catgut in Absolute Alcohol in a closed Brass Vessel {Jellctfs).—(\) Roll the raw catgut w«7/ocjf/y on glass plates. (2) Place in absolute alcohol for three or four days to ensure dehydra- tion. (3) Transfer to one of the metal sterilising cylinders (Fannin & Co., Grafton Street, Dublin; Reynolds, Branson & Co., Leeds; &c.) made for the purpose; fill it three-quarters full of absolute alcohol, and screw the Hd on tight. (4) Place the cylinder in a sauce pan of cold water, but interpose some wool or lint between the bottom of the sauce-pan and the cylinder to prevent over-heating. (5) Bring the water to the boil, and continue the boiling for fifteen minutes. (6) After it has cooled, transfer with sterilised forceps to the storage jars. The gut contracts about 1 per cent, of its length during the heating, hence the reason for its being wound loosely. The contrac- tion does not, however, affect the formation of a ball if the catgut has been pre\iously rolled in this form instead of on a plate or spool. Ether and Corrosive Sublimate Method.—(i) Soak the raw catgut for a week in commercial sulphuric ether. (2) Then for a week in 1-4000 solution of perchloride 01 mercury in ether. (3) Transfer to storage solution. Iodine Method.—This is strongly recommended by A. S. Barling, who has used it for ten months with complete satisfaction. The dry catgut as it comes from the makers is soaked in water containing i per cent, of iodine and i per cent, of potassium iodide. After soaking for eight days it is ready for use, and is stored in the same fluid in which it is prepared. Unless, however, the bottle in which it is stored has a well-ground stopper, the iodine escapes and the gut rots. Before use the catgut must be rinsed in boiled water not warmer than tepid. The catgut thus prepared is sterile, tough, knots easily, and is not quickly absorbed. No. 00 lasts about six days in the skin and is recommended for sutures. No. 2 lasts from ten to fourteen days and is recommended for muscle and fascia. Lister's Chromic Acid Catgut.—Pure carbolic acid (absolute phenol), I part dissolved in 20 parts of a solution of chromic acid in water (i in 4,oooj. As soon as the solution has been made, introduce into it catgut equal in weight to the phenol used. Steep for forty-eight hours ; take out the catgut and dry it on. the stretch. When dry, sleep it in 1-5 carbolic oil, and it is ready for use.298 APPENDIX. To Cliromicise Catgut without making it too hard.—(i) Prepare the following solution :—Dissolve 15 grains of bichromate of potash in I oz. of boiled or distilled water; add this to 15 ozs, of absolute alcohol. (2) Steep the catgut (sterilised as above) in this solution for 15 hours. (3) Transfer to storage solution. Storage Solutions for Catgut. (i) Absolute alcohol, Glycerine,. Corrosive sublimate. 90 10 pts. (2) Olive oil containing 20 per cent, of carbolic acid—z.e., 1-5 car- bolic oil. (A^. 5.—Since tt was shown that carbolic oil is slow and unreliable for sterilising catgut, surgeons have been afraid to use it as a storing fluid. There is, however, no real ground for this fear, and the advantages of strong carbolic oil as a storing fluid are many and great.) Storage Solution for Silk.—i-iooo of corrosive sublimate in absolute alcohol. Methods of Drawing off Catgut during an Operation.—The requi- sites are ease of obtaining the catgut thread, preservation from con- Fig. 201. lamination of the catgut not used, choice of different thicknesses, and facility in replacing new supplies when a given quantity has run out Many more or less complicated vessels fitted with sets of spools or reels have been introduced, but none have proved quite satisfactory in all of the required particulars, and we have to fall back on a choice of tNvo simpfe methods. One is to have yard or metre lengths of catgut rolled on s^eparate spools, which are removed fi'om the bottles during an opera- tion ind laid on the instrument tray, but not "^ed ^^^J" f°;j^"> operation. This necessitates a considerable waste of catgut. 1 ne orher method is to roll the catgut balls like those of twme. The e pull out from the middle and are used as follows :-Keep two or tnrce299 APPENDIX. balls of catgut—different sizes—in a small wide-mouthed bottle, or use several small bottles each containing balls of catgut of the same size. Before the operation begins remove the cork or stopper, placing it on an aseptic surface, and draw out a few inches of each thread of catgut; now pack round them into the mouth of the bottle a plug of cotton-wool, firmly wrung out of some antiseptic lotion. The threads will thus pass through the plug. When catgut is required, the surgeon steadies the plug with his left hand, while he draws at what he wants of any of the threads with his right and cuts it off (Fig. 201). After the operation the plug is thrown away and the stopper replaced. As soon as a ball is finished, another can be put in the bottle from a stock which, of course, will be kept ready. T us, the requirements laid down are fulfilled with no apparatus exxept a bottle, and the operator can help himself to catgut during an operation without contaminating his hands. How to Roll Catgut in Balls.—Take a surgically clean glass rod and tube varying from tV'o 1^ inch in diameter for different thicknesses of catgut. If the catgut is dry, damp it in antiseptic lotion to take off some of its springiness. Keep it lying loose on a plate or in a bowl. Holding the rod in the left hand, fix the end of the thread with the fingers of this hand against the glass (this will be the end which draws Fig. 202. Fig. 203. out). Grasping the thread with the right hand, wind it once or twice round the rod near its free end. Now begins the special method. The thread is wound obliquely round and round the glass rod, each com- plete turn touches the rod twice, and every turn overlaps the previous one (Fig. 202). When a good-sized ball has been formed it is fi.\ed thus;—As the thread passes from below it is steadied with the left thumb halfway up the ball (Fig. 203); it is then fixed there by being looped on itself and drawn tight, and lastly is secured by laying down the end and being whipped in position by two or three turns. The loop is then drawn through and the end cut short. Meanwhile, the first end has remained under the operator's left hand. The ball is now finished, and it has only to be carefully pulled off the rod to be ready. Twisted ligature silk can be easily rolled in the same way, especially v/hen wet. Although the very finest silk can also be put up this way, the balls are soft and collapsible and spools are better. Like most things this process seems more difficult from the description than it is in reality. Let any one try it with a piece of firm twine on a }4-inch diameter rod, and with a little practice it will become quite easy. The winding must not be too tight, else the ball when finished will not slip off the rod.Fig. 204. APPENDIX. 300 Gauze Dressings in Balls.—The same method may with advantage be used for gauze dressings. Fold a length of gauze across its breadth till it is an eighth of its original breadth. Wind it on a glass rod about of an inch in diameter. .'Vs the muslin passes through the hand it forms itself into a loose cord. Finish the ball by tucking the end under the last turn. The ball may then be sterilised. Prepared gauze, such as bicyanide or iodoform gauze, is usually sent out by the manufacturer in rolls folded to one-eighth of the breadth of the " piece." It is thus ready to be made into a ball. When finished, the ball should be fitted into a surgically clean jar or box, and the inner end brought up through a plug of cotton wool (Fig. 204). When required for dressings, portions can be drawn up and cut off as required without disturbing the remainder. Iodoform gauze should have a stoppered jar. Messrs. J- F. M'Farlan & Co. will send out any of their prepared gauze dressings in ball form if requested to do so, and can supply suitable celluloid boxes to hold them.301 APPENDIX. Appendix J. Shorthand in Medicine.—" The service ot shorthand in medical work is most extensive in the ability it confers to secure notes of cases, which could not otherwise be talven. The practitioner, by its means, can keep useful records even through a busy life, and the notes which the physician has to take, can be made twice as good in half the time and wi'th less than half the labour. In all scientific medical work, and indeed in all scientific work which rests upon observation, it enables, in a civen time, the amount of record to be doubled, and yet leaves twice the time for observation, which must be more precise and accurate for the greater record. It has thus a special influence on the quality of the work. To the student also it is of extreme value in taking reports of cases. It enables him, moreover, to take perfect epitomes of lectures, and yet to give to the subject as much attention as if he took no notes. It enables him also to secure notes of the bedside teaching, the most precious he receives, which can seldom be obtained with longhand, and yet leaves him adequate time for all necessary observation of the facts. '' Nothing that is worth having can be acquired without some time and labour. Shorthand may be so learned that it can be used with advantage if one hour a day is given to its study for three months. In the case of many students with well-trained minds, three-quarters of an hour a day will suffice, or half an hour a day for four months, if the practice in writing is supplemented by reading in various spare moments. At the end of three months it can be used : it can be written at about twice the rate of legible longhand, and read with ease. A few minutes of study each day, to secure accuracy, enables its use to be adequate for further progress during the second three months. During the second six months, all the time that has been given to its study is regained by its use. At the end of the year there has been no actual loss of time, and afterwards all is pure gain. Shorthand is a lever which, unlike mechanical levers, increases alike the value of time and the power of work."* Arrangement of Notes of Cases.—It is essential that the notes of cases should be so arranged as to be easily referred to. Many methods may be employed, but the following seems the best in our judgment:— For private work the cases should be taken in separate sheets of thin tough paper, 6J by 4J inches. These can be carried in a parchment envelope in the breast pocket. As soon as the case is finished, or during its progress, if the case is seen only in the consulting room, it is put away in a partitioned and alphabetically labelled portfolio (8vo size, to be had for is. or is. 6d. at any large stationer's). At periodical intervals the cases are taken out of the portfolio, arranged according to the disease and indexed in a book according to the name of the patient. The system of diseases adopted must be drawn up beforehand, and will probably vary with the line of practice of each individual ;t but for most people, and especially for students, the headings of the Chapters of Standard Text-books will give a basis to start with. The method * From a leaflet i.ssued by the Society 0/ Medical Phono^-rapliers (Pitman's System). t Messrs. A. & D. Padon, 13 St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh, publish Cath- cart's Index for Surgical Cases.302 APPENDIX. recommended for indexing according to name is that described in Todd's Student's Manual. A good thick notebook is taken, and the pages are marked as follows :—Each letter of the alphabet has lo pages allotted to it—i.e., two for each of the vowels, a, e, i, (y), o and ii. The patient's name is then entered primarily according to the first letter in the name and secondarily according to the first vowel. Thus, J. Smith or Simpson would be entered on page S, i; Sloan, on page S, o; Anderson, on page A, e, and so on. Following the name there would be a reference to the disease and the number of the case. Thus, against J. Smith's name might stand " Knee, Tuberculosis, 15"—i.e., the 15th of the tubercular knee cases. There still remains to be described the method of storing the cases, which are grouped together according to the disease. Nothing seems more suitable for a practitioner than an adaptation of the " Ceres" system. A number of separate cardboard slips is placed in a box. They lie slanting against one another, steadied by a support which can be moved along at will as more space is required. Instead of the letters which are sent out fixed upon the slips the practitioner pastes the names of the diseases fixed on in his plan. Between the slips go the cases—arranged either in direct series or preferably with several pinned or gummed on to a broad sheet (a student would find one or two of the portfolios before-mentioned would sufficiently suit his purpose, if the partitions had names of diseases pasted over the letters). The advantages of the method now recommended are that (i) full use is made of the admirable business expedient of simultaneously storing and indexing. While a patient is still in attendance his name gives the index to his case-sheet. Afterwards when the medical man wishes to refer to similar cases of a given disease he finds them grouped together. Should, however, he wish to find the case through the prtient's name, he has the book index for reference. (2) Notes of the same patient's case are kept together. (3) He has no bulky note-book to carry about with him. In hospital practice the only difference is that the cases are usually taken on larger sheets of paper than those recommended for private work.APPENDIX. 303 K SICK-ROOM COOKERT RECEIPTS. By Miss A. M. Griggs. Since the proper cooking and serving-up of food are so important in- the nutrition of patients, we mal<e no apology for adding a series of well-tried sick-room cookery receipts to oiir Surgical Handbook. For these we are entirely indebted to Miss A. M. Griggs, who has tested their value, and makes frequent use of them in her classes. Soups and Beef Tea. Chicken Soup. Required—A young chicken (the remains of the chicken, of which the breast was used in the chicken panada, p. 305, may be utiliied). 2 pints fresh cold water. Yolks of 2 eggs. % teaspoonful salt. i gill of cream. 12 peppercorns. Slice of dry toast. I blade of mace. Small "bouquet garni" {i.e., a sprig of thyme, parsley, and bayleaf). Cut the chicken into small joints, remove the skin, and put the joints into a basin with sufBcient boihng water to cover them, and allow to stand for 10 minutes to remove all fat. Pour away the water, and wash the chicken joints in cold water, then put them into a china-lined saucepan, with 2 pints of cold water, the salt, peppercorns, mace, and the bouquet garni. Let the mixture boil, skim thoroughly, and then simmer for about 3 hours till the meat is parting from the bones; strain and set aside to get cold. Take the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar and pass through a hair-sieve, then mix with the yolks and the cream. Carefully remove every particle of fat from the liqmd strained from the bones, and pour the liquid gradually over the pounded chicken mixture. Stir over the fire until quite hot, but do not allow to boil or it will curdle and the soup be spoiled. Serve with toast cut into neat pieces. Mutton Broth (Inexpensive). Required— I lb. lean mutton. 1J4 pints cold water. K teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful of rice or i tablespoonful of pearl barley. Thin dry toast.304 APPENDIX. This broth should, if possible, be made the day before it is required. Cut the mutton into small pieces, take away all fat and skin, put the mutton into a china-lined saucepan, with i pint of water and the salt. Cover with a lid and bring slowly to the boil, and then skim carefully. Simmer for two hours, and skim occasionally. Add the rice (which must previously be well washed in cold water) and pint cold water, and allow the broth to simmer for one hour more. Strain and put aside for twelve hours to become cold. Remove the fat. Heat as required, keeping back the sediment. Serve very hot with a slice of thin dry toast. [The flavour may be varied by the addition of a small carrot, a piece of onion, or a few herbs. The rice or barley may be omitted, and the broth will be perfectly clear.] Fish Soup (inexpensive). Required— 1 haddock (medium sized). i gill milk. I pint cold water. i teaspoonful of com flour. 1 small potato. ,, ,, salt. 1 oz. butter. '% ,, ,, pepper. 2 leeks. Wash the fish thoroughly and remove the scales; cut it into pieces, and put it into a very clean china-lined saucepan, with the cold water and salt. Allow to come to the boil, with the lid off, and skim thoroughly. The perfection of the soup depends greatly upon this first skimming. Add the potato and white part of the leeks thinly sliced. Boil up once, skim well, and cover with a lid, and let the soup simmer slowly for I hour. Pass the fish, &c., through a sieve, keeping back the bones. Return the soup to the pan. Mix the corn flour with the milk, and keep free from lumps; pour into the pan, stir until boiling, and serve the soup very hot. At the end, % teaspoonful of lemon juice and i tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley may be added to vary the flavour. Beef-Tea. Required— I lb. freshly-killed lean beef. I pint cold water, teaspoonful salt. Remove all skin and fat. Cut the. beef into small pieces < dp not chop it or a good deal of the juice will be squeezed out and lost. [A stiU better plan is to scrape or shred the beef, as this breaks it more thoroughly down and allows the water to mi.\ better with it.' This plan takes a long time.] Place the beef, with the water and salt, in a stone jar, with a tightly- fitting lid, and allow to stand for lo m.inutes. This soaking in "cold water and salt will draw out the juices of the meat. Then place the covered jar in a saucepan (with a lid) half full of Hoiling water, and cook thus for 6o minutes. If the water in the saucepan boils away, add more. The reason beef-tea is put into a jar, and not directly mto a saucepan, is to prevent it from boiling, which is considered to diminish its digestibility.APPENDIX. 305 [If more convenient, the jar containing the beef, &c., may be placed in a moderately hot oven and cooked there.] WTien the beef-tea has been cooking for 30 minutes, open the jar, and with two forks separate the beef, which is apt to cake together into lumps ; cover and return the jar to the saucepan. When the beef-tea is sufficiently cooked, pour it off from the meat, but do not strain it, at least not through a fine strainer, as that would keep back the sediment, which is a valuable part of the beef-tea. Pour into a basin, and squeeze the meat with the back of a spoon so as to get out all the juice. If there is a suspicion of anv fat floating on the top, remove it with porous paper; or better still, let the beef-tea, if not required at once, become cold and remove the fat with a heated spoon. If the patient is allowed to eat the fibre of the meat, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve and thicken the beef-tea with it. As patients quickly tire of beef-tea, it is advisable to alter the flavour occasionally. By the addition of a sprig of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf tied together and put into the jar for about 15 minutes, and removed before serving, a pleasant flavour will be obtained. If the flavour is liked, a small piece of onion, previously scalded, may be placed in the jar for a few minutes while the beef-tea is cooking. Any vegetable or herb palatable to the invalid may be used for a change. A tea made of equal quantities of lean beef, veal, and mutton, in the proportion of i lb. of mixed meat to i pint of water and % teaspoonful salt, is often palatable. Serve beef-tea hot, in a cup or bowl only ^ parts full in case ol spilling, with thin dry toast cut into small neat pieces upon a plate. Place the cup and plate upon a tray, with a clean and neatly-folded napkin. Beef-Tea quickly made (inexpensive). Required— 4 ozs. of freshly-killed lean beef. i gill cold water, teaspoonful salt. Cut the beef into small pieces, sprinkle the salt, and pour the water, over it. Cover and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Pour into an uncovered saucepan, place over a slow fire, and beat with a fork until the meat changes colour. On no account allow the tea to boil. Pour the tea off the meat, remove the fat, and serve. Beef-Tea with Oatmeal (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of fine oatmeal. pint of cold water. I pint of beef-tea. Put the oatmeal into a basin and cover it with the cold water, let it stand for 30 minutes, stirring continually, and then strain it through a fine strainer, pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible. Pour the clear part oT the beef-tea on the strained oatmeal and water, boil for 10 minutes, stirring continually. Pour on to the sediment of the beef- tea, mjx thoroughly, and season. &aw Beef-Tea. Required— ^ 2 ozs. freshly-killed lean beef. 2 tablespoonsful of cold water. \i teaspoonful salt. Scrape the beef, over it sprinkle the salt and pour the water. Cover and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Stir and pour off the tea, and it is ready. 20APPENDIX. 3o6 [A few drops of browning or ketchup will improve the colour of the beef-tea, but be careful to serve it in a coloured or opaque glass as its appearance is not appetising.] Beef Essence. Required— 1 lb. freshly-killed lean beef. % teaspoonful salt. Cut the meat into very small pieces, sprinkle the salt well over it put it into a jar and cover with a lid. Place the jar in a covered saucepan of boiling water, or moderately hot oven, for 5 or 6 hours. Press the beef, and pour off all liquid. Remove the fat with a piece of porous paper, and serve a teaspoonful of the essence at a time. [To hurry the process a tablespoonful of water may be poured over the beef and salt, and two hours will then suffice to draw out a good deal of the juice from the meat.] FlBh. ^.5.—White fish, such as haddock, whiting, cod, or turbot, should always be preferred for invalids to oily fish, such as salmon, herring, or mackerel. Boiled Fish and Sauce (inexpensive).—Have a very clean fish- kettle, with a strainer, with salted water (i teaspoonful salt to i pint of water), just enough to cover the fish. Too much water will wash away the flavour. Remove the fish from the water directly it is cooked, or it will become soft and broken. It may be kept hot over the water, on the strainer, covered with a cloth or flannel. A whole fish should be put into cold water ; a slice or piece of fish into boiling water. Do not poiu- the water over the fish, but place the fish in the water, directly after it has been well washed in cold water and salt. The time for cooking will depend upon the thickness. Whiting or floimder requires about . . 5 minutes. Sole, „ „ . . 7 .. Haddock, ,, ,, 10 to 15 Slice of cod or skate, ,, ,, 12 to 15 Put a skewer or fork close to the bone, and, if the flesh feels tender and will leave the bone, the fish is cooked enough. If the flesh feels hard, the fish must be cooked longer, for underdone fish is not only unsightly but most unwholesome. Sauce for boiled Fish. Required— A piece of butter size of half an egg. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. I small cupful of milk. % teaspoonful of lemon juice. I tablespoonful of the water in which the fish was boiled. % teaspoonful salt. Melt the butter, add the flour, and mix over the fire until there ore no lumps, pour on the milk and fish liquor, and stir constantly until boiling. Cook for 3 minutes, add the seasoning, and serve \vith the fish in a separate vessel. Broiled Fish.—This method of cooking fish is most suitable to small flat fish, or a slice from a thick fish. Have ready a very clear fire, throw on a little salt to allay the smoke. Put on the gridiron, and, when it is307 APPENDIX. quite hot, rub all the bars on either side with suet, so as to prevent the fish from sticking. Wash well, and dry the fish; rub it with oil, pepper, and salt. Place the fish on the gfridiron, and turn it constantly for from 5 to 9 minutes, according to its thickness. Serve hot. [A more delicate way is to wrap the fish in an oiled paper before putting it on the gridiron. This way requires great care to prevent the paper from becoming charred, and to cook the fish thoroughly.] Fried Fisi. Required- Flour. Bread crumbs. I egg. Fish (sole or haddock). Place on the fire an iron saucepan three-quarters filled with clarified fat or dripping, to become hot while the fish is being prepared. Remove the skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into pieces about 2 inches square. Wash and dry the fish, then dip it into flour to absorb all moisture, next cover the fish with the egg (yolk and white well beaten together), then toss the fish in bread crumbs. It is advisable to have the bread crvunbs in a paper, as then the fish may be tossed without being handled. Try if the fat is hot enough by throwing in a tiny piece of bread. If the bread becomes brown at once the fat is ready. The fish may be fried for about 3 minutes, but too many pieces must not be put in at once or the fat will be cooled. On no account put the fish in before the fat is ready, or it will become a greasy sodden mess, instead of a crisp brown appetising morsel. Lift the fish from the fat on to a piece of porous paper to absorb all grease, and serve hot on a folded napkin or fish-paper. meats. Lamb Chop (for a Convalescent). Required— 1 lamb chop from the loin. Very smaU piece of butter. White pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonsful of cream. (Yt of a teaspoonful of each). Trim the chop neatly, and lay it upon a well-buttered, enamelled dish that win stand the fire. Sprinkle over the chop the pepper and salt, lay on the top a very small piece of butter, and place the dish in a moderately hot oven and cook for about 7 minutes, then baste and turn the chop. Cook for 5 minutes more. Lift the chop on to a hot dish, add the cream to the dripping in the enamelled dish. Place the enamelled dish over the fire, and stir the sauce briskly until it boils and thickens. Pour the sauce over the chop, and serve very hot. Chop—Grilled, Toasted, or Fried. Required— I nice chop, cut and neatly trimmed. T0 Grill,—Make ready a good clear fire, have a gridiron perfectly clean and very hot, rub both sides of it in every part with mutton fat, and put it over the fire. Lay the chop upon it, and cook for from 7 to 10 mmutes, turning constantly, counting slowly i, 2, 3, 4 between e^h turn. This will allow the chop to be nicely browned on the out- side, and juicy inside. Serve at once on a very hot dish.APPENDIX. 3o8 To Toast.—When the fire is not bright on the top, the chop may be toasted in front of the fire, turning frequently. To Fry.—Make a little butter very hot in the pan, put in the chop and cook, turning frequently. [This method entails less trouble than grilling, but is not nearly so satisfactory.] Time, 7 to 10 minutes. Steamed Mutton Chop. Required— I nice loin chop. Small piece of butter. White pepper and salt (of a teaspoonful of each). Have ready over the fire a saucepan of boiling water, with a deep plate fitting tightly over the top and touching the water. Select a nice chop, remove all skin and superfluous fat, and trim the chop neatly. Butter the plate, and when it is quite hot place the chop upon it. Cover tightly with a saucepan lid, or another plate, being careful that it fits closely. Let the water boil rapidly under the plate for from 7 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the chop, then lift the lid or plate, turn the chop, cover again, and allow to cook 7 to 10 minutes more, filling the saucepan with more boiling water if necessary. When the chop is cooked lift it on to a clean hot dish, add the white pepper and salt to the liquid in the plate, mix thoroughly, and pour over the chop. Serve with snow-flake potatoes (see p. 305). [Any small piece of meat, chicken, or fish may be steamed and served in this manner.] CMcken Panada. Required— Breast of a young chicken. About 2 tablespoonsful of cream. Yolk of 1 egg. Small slice of toast. H teaspoonful of salt. Remove the skin from the breast of a young chicken, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Put them into a jar, and sprinkle a little salt over them, cover the jar with greased paper, place it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half way up the jar. Cover with a Ud and cook for 60 minutes, as the water in the saucepan evaporates, add more, which must be boiling. Remove the chicken from the jar, pound it in a mortar with the yolk, and pass through a hair sieve. Add cream to the juice left in the jar until there are 3 tablespoonsful of the mixture. Pour this on to the pounded chicken, and stir over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil. Dip the toast into hot milk, and pile the chicken mixture on to the toast. If liked, squeeze a little lemon juice over it. Serve hot. Vegetables. Snow-Flake Potatoes (inexpensive). Required— Freshly boiled potatoes from the pot. Pass the potatoes quickly through a wire sieve, and lift them with a slice on to the hot dish, on which they are to be served, without press- ing them in any way. . , , j .v [If preferred, the potatoes may be heated or slightly browned on the top, after they have been passed through the sieve.]APPENDIX. 309 To boil a Cauliflower. Required— I cauliflower. i tablespoonful of vinegar. Water. Salt. Remove all the coarse outer leaves from the cauliflower, but let the small close leaves remain to protect the flower. Wash, and place the cauliflowet in a basin, with cold water to cover it. Add the vinegar, and let the cauliflower lie for 30 minutes. The vinegar will draw out any insects that may be secreted in the leaves or flower. Wash the cauliflower again in fresh cold water, and plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, containing i teaspoonful of salt to i quart of water. Let the water boil rapidly till the cauliflower sinks to the bottom of the pan, and the stalk is tender, about 20 to 30 minutes are required. Lift into a hot vegetable dish, and pour sauce over. Sauce. Required— I oz. butter. M pint milk. \i oz. flour. '% teaspoonful salt. Make in the same manner as directed for sauce for boiled fish (p. 303). Puddings and Jellies. Custard Pudding. Required— 3 eggs. Vi pint of miUc. I teaspoonful of sugar. % oz. butter. Take the yolks of three eggs and i white, beat well with the sugar, add the milk. Butter a pie-dish, strain the milk, &c. into the dish, and place it in a moderately hot oven to cook for about 10 minutes. The dish must not be moved in the oven until after the eggs are set, or the custard will curdle, and not become firm. Bread Crumb Pudding (inexpensive). Required— r heaped tablespoonful of bread crumbs. }4 oz. of butter. I giU of miUc. 3 lumps of sugar. I egg. A grate of nutmeg. Heat the milk, and pour it over the bread crumbs, butter, and sugar, in a basin, beat with a fork until quite smooth. Whip the yolk and white of the egg together, and mix all well together. Butter a small basin, pour m the mixture, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam for 20 minutes. [For steaming, see beef-tea custard p. 307,] Turn the pudding from the basin on to a hot plate, and serve plain, or with a little jam. Eice Pudding (Inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of rice. i egg. M pint of milk. Water, r dessert-spoonful of sugar. Wash the rice in several waters, put it into a saucepan with just enough water to cover it, and, when the water boils, stir with a fork and add the milk. Continue to stir occasionally until the rice is tender. Butter a pie-dish, pour the rice into it. Beat the egg with the sugar, and add to the rice. Mix well, and bake in a moderate oven for about 7 to 10 minutes.310 APPENDIX. Arrowroot Pudding. Required— K pint milk. 2 teaspoonsful of arrowroot Sugar to taste. i egg. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with about 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk. Warm a cupful of milk, and pour on to the arrowroot, stirring all the time, return to the saucepan, and stir until the arrowroot has boiled 2 or 3 minutes. Sweeten to taste. Allow the arrow- root to become cold, mix in the yolk of egg. Beat the white to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the arrowroot. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for about 5 minutes in a moderately hot oven. Semolina Pudding (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of semolina. i oz. butter. 3 gills of milk. I egg. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. Put the semolina, milk, butter, and sugar, into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling, and continue to stir for about 5 minutes longer while the semolina boils. Take the saucepan from the fire to cool a little, drop the yolk of egg into the mixture. Drop the white upon a plate, and beat to a sticf froth. Mix well with the semolina, place in a greased pie-dish, and bake for about 5 or 7 minutes. Tapioca Pudding (inexpensive). Required— 1 tablespoonful of tapioca. 3 gills of milk. 2 eggs. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. % oz. butter. Well wash the tapioca, and cover it with the milk, and allow to stand for 2 hours, stirring occasionally. Then place in a saucepan by the side of the fire, and cook very gently for about 60 minutes, stirring oc- casionally. [Tapioca must be cooked slowly, or it vnW become tough and hard. Each particle should be soft and perfectly clear after it is cooked.] Draw the saucepan away from the fire to cool a little, add the sugar and butter. Mix the yolks well with the tapioca. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir lightly into the tapioca. Pour into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for about 7 minutes. Beef-Tea Custard. Required— Yolks of 2 eggs. I gill beef-tea (free from fat). White of I egg. Vi teaspoonful salt, to season. Ya teaspoonful pepper, to season. Whisk the yolks and white till quite frothy, add the beef tea. Add the seasoning, and cook by steaming. Pour into a buttered basin. Butter a piece of paper, tie this tightly on to the basin, and place it in a sauce- pan of boiling water, taking care that the water only comes three- quarter parts up the basin. If the water boils away, more must be added. Cover the saucepan with a tightly-fitting lid, and let the custard steam thus for 20 minutes. Do not let the water boil too rapidly, or the custard will become honey-combed instead of being firm and smooth. Wlien cooked, remove the paper, reverse the basin over a hot plate, take away the basin, leave the custard standing, and serve.APPENDIX. 3" [For convenience in tying on the paper, it is advisable to use a pudding basin with a rim at the top.] Beef-Tea Pudding, steamed (inexpensive). Required— 2 tablespoonsful of fine bread crumbs. I gill of hot beef tea. I egg. Pour the beef-tea over the bread crumbs, mix thoroughly, add the e<^<^ well beaten and the seasoning. Pour into a buttered basm, and sfeam for 20 minutes. See directions in beef-tea custard. Beef-Tea Pudding, baJsed (inexpensive). Required— 3 tablespoonsful fine bread crumbs. A piece of butter about the size of an egg. 1 gill hot beef tea. 2 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Pour the hot beef-tea over the bread crumbs and the butter, beat with a fork till the butter is melted, then add the 2 yolks; whip the 2 whites to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the mbcture; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Port Wine Jelly. Required— 2 wine glasses of port wine. i teacupful of warm water. I oz. of isinglass. 3 ozs. of white sugar candy. 01, of pounded gum arabic. Put all these ingredients into a jar. Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water reaching half-way up the jar. Cover and let the water simmer for about 6 or 8 hours, adding more as it evaporates. Stir the contents of the jar from time to time; when they are all mbced and quite dissolved, pour the jelly into saucers and allow to become cold. Portable Jelly. Required- 2 ozs. gum arabic. 2 ozs. isinglass. 2 ozs. of white sugar candy. i nutmeg, gi-ated. I pint of port wine. Put all into a jar standing in a saucepan of cold water, and stir the contents of the jar until all are mixed and dissolved. Pour upon a plate and, when cold, cut into lozenges and preserve in a tin box. [Milk may be used instead of port wine, but the lozenges will not keep so well] Orange Jelly. Required— 6 oranges. 1 lemon. 1 oz. gelatine or isinglass. 3 gills of water. 4 ozs. of sugar. Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon and add, with the water, to the gelatine and sugar in a clean china-lined saucepan. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain through a. hair sieve of piece of muslin, and pour into a mould previously dipped in cold water. Let stand 12 hours to become quite cold. Turn on to a clean dish, and serve with, or without, whipped cream.312 APPENDIX. Bread Jelly (Inexpensive). Required— 2 penny rolls. i pint hot water. 2 ozs. sugar. i stick cinnamon. Cut the rolls into thin slices, and toast or dry them very thoroughly Put them into a basin, with the sugar and cinnamon stick broken ' Pour the hot water over them, cover tightly, and let the basin stand by the side of the fire for 30 minutes. Pass through a hair sieve or coarse muslm mto a mould or small basin. Set aside to become cold, and serve with cream. Chicken JeUy. Required- Legs and wings of a young chicken. teaspoonful of salt. About I pmt cold water. 6 pepper corns. A blade of mace. Remove the skin from the legs and wings of the chicken. Pour boiling water over them, and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Drain and put the meat and bones into a pan with the water; add the mace, salt and pepper corns. Put the lid on the pan. [If liked, a small piece of flavourmg vegetable (uncooked), such as carrot or turnip, may be added.] Bring to the boil, skim well, and let simmer slowly till the meat falls into shreds. Strain through a piece of muslin, and set aside to become cold. Omelets, ice. A Plain Omelet. Required— A piece of butter the size of a small egg. 3 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs briskly, add pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a small omelet pan over the fire, skim the butter, and pour the beaten eggs into the pan. Hold the handle, and keep the pan revolving over the fire until the omelet mixture looks nearly the consistency of cream; let the pan then rest over the fire for i minute, swiftly slide a broad pliable knife imder one half of the omelet, and fold it over the other half to form an oval shape, trim the edges neatly, and tilt the pan so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden brown colour, and it will then be ready. Reverse the pan over a hot omelet dish, and serve the omelet quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. iNote.—'&c most careful to keep the omelet pan clean, and to use it for nothing but omelets.] To Poach an Egg (inexpensive). Required— I egg. 1 slice of toast. Have a shallow pan with boiling water ; to i pint of water allow 1 tea- spoonful of salt and i tablespoonful of vinegar. Break the egg into a cup, and, when the water is boiling very fast, pour the egg into the pan and let it cook gently for 2 minutes ; lift it out, with a perforated slice, on to a piece of nice hot buttered toast, and serve at once.APPENDIX. Drinks. Coffee (inexpensive). Required— 1 tablespoonful of coffee. K cupful hot milk. 1 cupful of boiling water. The °-ood quality of the coffee will very much depend upon the way in which it is made, and upon the fresh and thorough roastmg of the berry Good coffee should always leave a coloured stickmess round the cup, and should never be boiled, but made with boiling water, and served very hot. . A simple and plain method to make coffee is m a jug. Heat the jug and dry it, put in the coffee and pour the boiling water over it. Cover tightly and allow to stand on the hob, or by the side of the fire, for 5 minutes. Pour a little coffee into a cup and back into the jug. Repeat this, cover again, and leave for lo minutes to become clear. Serve with hot milk. iNoie.—\-a cooking milk, watch it constantly, and remove from fire just before it boils.] Tea (inexpensive).—Have a kettle of fresh water, and infuse the tea directly it boils. The long boiling of the water causes the tea to have a fiat insipid taste. Make the teapot very hot, and dry it thoroughly. Allow I teaspoonful of tea for each person, and i teaspoonful over (this is allowing 2 cups of tea for each). Pour on the boiling water, let the tea stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes, never longer. Pour off the tea into a fresh hot teapot or jug. On no account allow the tea to remain longer on the leaves, or it will become bitter. A Cup Of Chocolate. Required— 2 ozs. of chocolate. % pint milk. I egg. Sugar to taste. Put the chocolate into a saucepan with the milk, and, when hot, work with a spoon into a smooth paste free from lumps. Stir over the fire and boil for 5 minutes. Beat the yolk and white of the egg to a stiff froth, and strain into a jug, strain on to this the chocolate, and beat with a whisk for 5 minutes, or until the chocolate is quite frothy. [A small teacupful is sufficient to give at a time with a Uttle sponge- cake or finger biscuit.] Cocoa (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of cocoa nibs or flakes. 3 pints cold water. Put the cocoa into a very clean saucepan with the water, and simmer, •a,nth the lid on, by the side of the fire for S or 6 hours. Strain. Add 54 cup of milk to }4 cup of cocoa. [Cocoa nibs are cheaper and purer than many of the prepared powders.] Barley Water (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of pearl barley. K lemon. I oz. of loaf sugar. i quart of water. Wash the barley, put it into a clean saucepan, with i pint of cold water, allow to boil for 5 minutes, throw away the water and wash the barley again. Return the barley to the saucepan with a quart of cold water, the sugar, and thin yellow rind of the lemon. Simmer for about314 APPENDIX. 2 hours, strain through a pieci; of line muslin, squeeze the lemon and ^fvP ^^JT"^' ^^^""'^ "^"^'"e- Be most careful nofto give the sediment; a good plan is to strain oft" the barley water when It IS cold into a second jug. •' Rice Water (Inexpensive). Required— 1 02. whole rice. 4 large raisins. 2 pints water. [i tablespoonful of brandy, if ordered.] St ''^^.''i'^^.^^l'' cut the raisins into pieces, but do not remove the fnH K -1 f I nee and raisins into a clean saucepan with the water, and boil for abou 1 hoiu-. Skim occasionally. Strain through mS and serve cold, with or without the brandy, L ordered. Apple Water (Inexpensive). Required— 4 firm apples. i pint water. 2 ozs. lump sugar. 3 cloves. Wash and wipe the apples, cut into slices, but do not pare or core them f clean saucepan with the water, sugar, and cloves, and let them come to the boil. Strain through muslin, and serve when cold Toast Water (Inexpensive). Required— I slice of bread. i quart of cold water. Take a slice of bread, about inches thick, dry it slowly, either in a slow oven or about i foot away from the fire. Then slightly brown the bread close to the fire, but do not burn it, put it into the^water in a jug MXfrTsS Jver/S ' '''^^ "^■'""^^'^ Wine Whey. Required— % pint sweet milk. i wineglassful of sherry. Heat the milk, pour in the wine, and stir until it curdles. Strain, and it IS ready to serve. If liked a little sugar may be added after it is strained. Tamarind Whey. Required— I pint milk. 3 ozs. tamarinds. Heat the milk, stir in the Umarinds, and continue to stir imtil the milk has boiled 3 or 4 minutes. Strain through muslin, and it is ready to serve. ' Treacle Posset (Inexpensive). Required— I pint milk. 2 large tablespoonsful of black treacle. Warm the milk, add the treacle, and boil for 5 minutes. Strain through muslin, and serve hot. Linseed Tea (Inexpensive). Required— 1 oz. whole linseed. i lemon. 2 tablespoonsful of honey. 1 quart of water. Wash the linseed, and put it into a saucepan with the water, simmer slowly for i hour, skim occasionally. Put the honey into a jug, and squeeze the juice of the lemon over it. Strain the linseed and water on to this. Stir well, and serve a tablespoonful at a time warm.315 APPENDIX. Camomile Tea. Required— I oz. camomile flowers. i quart boiling water. Put the flowers into a jug, and pour the boiling water over them. Cover, and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Strain, and serve cold. Dose, % a teacupful. Lemonade (Inexpensive). Required— 3 lemons. ^i. pint of boiling water. 2 02S. of loaf sugar. Put the thin yellow rind of fresh lemons into a jug with the sugar. Squeeze in the juice of the lemons, being careful to keep back the pips, pour on the boiling water, cover, and set aside to become quite cold. Strain, and bottle, but do not keep longer than 3 days. Serve 2 tablespoonsful of lemonade in a tumbler, with potash, soda, or fresh cold water. A Warm Egg Drink (inexpensive^. Required— I egg. K pint of hot milk. I teaspoonful of sugar. Nutmeg (a grate of). Beat the egg and sugar until frothy, strain, and pour the hot milk upon them, stirring briskly. Beat with a fork for 4 minutes, season with nutmeg, pour into a clean tumbler, and serve at once. A Warm Egg Drink with Wine. Required— I egg. I gill of hot water. I teaspoonful of sugar. 1 wineglass of good port. Nutmeg (a grate of). Beat the egg and sugar together, strain, and add the hot water, stirring all the time, then mix in the nutmeg and wine, pour into a clean warm tumbler, and serve with fingers of toast. A Eefreslilng Egg Drink (inexpensive). Required— 1 yoUc of egg. i teaspoonful of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of milk. Soda or potash water. Beat the yolk of egg and sugar together, add the hot milk (or i table- spoonful of sherry not heated). Strain into a tumbler, and fill the glass with soda or potash water, and serve while effervescing. Egg Drink for a Dyspeptic (inexpensive). Required— 1 white of egg. i gill of milk. Whip the white of egg to a very stiff froth, and stir lightly into the milk. Serve with thin dry biscuit.3i6 APPENDIX. Egg Cream. Required— 1 gill milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. 2 lumps sugar. White of i egg. I gill cream. 1 gill bramble or black currant syruo (».«. % gill hot water poured over i gill of jam and strained.) Whip the cream until stiff. Warm the milk and sugar, pour on to the yolks and white, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan and continue to stir until thick, but do not boil or the eggs will curdle. Strain on to the syrup, and when cool add the cream bvalid 5""^'" any mixture containing eggs before giving it to an Oatmeal Gruel (inexpensive). Required 3 tablespoonsful of medium oatmeal. Sugar to taste; I pint milk. Small piece of butter. Put the oatmeal into a basin with the milk, and let it stand for minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain the milk into a saucepan pr4s the oatmeal as dry as possible, and stir over the fire until boiUng and boil for 10 minutes, still stirring. Pour into a basin over the butter and sugar, and stir imtil the butter is melted. Serve hot. [To make gruel from prepared groats—Mix i tablespoonful of groats with 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk, add these to nearly i pint of hot milk. Boil 10 minutes, and serve hot.] Rice Gruel (inexpensive). Required— Va. lb. of whole rice. i pint of water. 2 lumps of sugar. i inch of cinnamon stick, [i tablespoonful of brandy.] Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and cinnamon; let boil, and skim well. Put the lid on the pan and simmer for 60 minutes, when the rice ought to be soft and pulpy, Take out the cinnamon, beat the gruel with a fork to make it of uniform thickness. Serve a little warm, with or without the brandy. A Cup of Arrowroot. Required— H pint milk. Sugar to taste. 2 teaspoonsfid of arrowroot. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste, with about 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk. Warm a cupful of milk and pour on to the arrowroot, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan and stir until the arrowroot has boiled 2 or 3 minutes. Sweeten to taste and serve. [When wine or brandy is to be served in arrowroot, water must be substituted for the milk, otherwise the mixture will curdle; and the wine added after the arrowroot is removed from the fire.]3^7 INDEX. Abdominis, paracentesis, 107. Abscess, treatment of cold or tubercular, 198. Accidents, street, dealing with, 172. Acupressure, 54. Adrenalin in arrest of hasmorrhage, 57. 63. , . „ local anaesthesia, 19. „ shock, 66. ,, stricture in enlarged prostate, 19. Air in veins, 108. „ -passages, foreign body in, 83. Albumen {serum) in urine, 243. „ test for, ,, 248. Albumose, 249. Alcohol, poisoning by, 96. Alimentation, rectal, 11. Ambulance, civil, importance of, 172. „ classes, formation of, 179. „ lectures, syllabus of, 180. Ambulant treatment of fractures, 278. Ammonio-magnesium phosphate associated with decomposing urine, 252. Ampere, 190. Amputation, sites for, 266. ,, of fingers and toes, 103, 105. „ at hip, 49. ,, at shoulder, 47. Anaesthesia by injection into theca vertebralis, 19. ,, general, 12, „ local, 18, Ankle, artificial, 266. ,, joint, splints for, 212. „ splint forwounded, 213. Ankle, splint for, after excision, 232. Antiseptic ligatures, 297. Antiseptics, 20. domestic, 178. Antitoxins, 281. Anus, operation on, treatment after, 7. Aorta, abdominal, compression of, 46. Apostoli, 190. Arm-bath, 31. Arms, artificial, 268. Arteries, digital compression of, 65, tying, 51. Artificial arms, 268. knee, 268. ,, limbs, bearing-points for, 265. ,, Beaufort, 267. ,j „ varieties of, 266. ,, respiration, Schafer's method, 86. ,, Silvester's method, 85. Aseptic surgery, 26. Aspirator, 108. Axillary artery, compression of, 65. Balls of catgut or silk, 297, 299. Band, elastic, for haemorrhage, 44. Bandage, ,, <i 44- ,, fixed, to finish the sur- face of, 236. „ for foot. III. „ „ groin, 116. „ hand, 113. ,, head, 118. „ heel, 114, 121. „ jaw, I2S „ ,, knee and elbow, 115. ,, „ "lithotomyposition," 125:3i8 INDEX. Bandage for mamma, 117. mammary excision 123. ,, perinasum, 124. „ gum and chalk, 236. ,, many-tailed, 125. ,, paraffin, 236. „ spica, 114. ,, starch, 235. ,, stump, 121. ,, suspensory, 127. ,, T-shaped, 125. ,, water-glass, 235. Bandages, preparation of, no. Bandaging, rules for, in. Bath, arm, 31. ,, foot, 31. Battery, choice of, 190. Bauer's cuirass, 223. Bavarian splint, 234. Bearers of wounded, rules for, 179. Bearing-points after amputation, 265. Beaufort artificial limbs, 267. Bed sores, prevention of, 148. Bell, Joseph, 53, 81. Belloc, 62. Bennet's fracture, 147. Bier's passive congestion, 198. Bile in urine, test for, 250. Bladder, aspiration of, 76. ,, bleeding from, treatment, 63. ,, method of washing out, 9. „ possible rupture of, 78. „ tying catheter into, 260. Bleedmg, e.xtemporary treatment of, 177. ,, from leech-bite, 71. _,. »> .) the bladder, 244. Blistering, 72. Blisters, 38. Blood-corpuscles in urine, 254. Blood-pigment in urine, 250. Bloodless operation, 45. Blood letting, 71. Bone, bleeding from, 60. Boracic acid, 24. Bougard's paste, 289. Bowel, injury of, treatment after, 8. Bowels, after operation, 7. ,, ,, strangulated hernia,8. ,, before operation, 6. Brachial artery, compression of, 65. Bruises, 171. Burn-Murdoch's method, to Burns, 32. Button suture, 25. Calcium chloride, 58. Calculus, urethral, 77. Carbolic acid, 22, 94. ,, pure, for hydrocele, 107. Carotid artery, common, compres- sion of, 49, 65. ,, tubercle, 49. Case-taking, i. Cast, gelatine and glycerine, 273. „ how to make, from mould 273- ,, how to remove, from mould 273- 1, to paint, 273. Catgut, balls of, 299. ,> chromic acid, 297. ligatures, 25, other methods, 297. Catheter, how to pass, 74, 288. tying into bladder, 260. Caustics, 289. Cautery, actual, 56. „ button, 73. galvano-, 56. )i Pacquelin's, 56. X thermo-, 56, 72. Celloidin, 29. Cervical caries, support for, 224. „ support, Jordan's, 227. Chiene, Professor, 81, 104, 170, 215, 232. Chloroform, administration of, 13. „ dangers, 14. Chopart, 265. Circumcision, 108. Clavicle, dislocation of, 166. „ e.\temporary fi.xation of broken, 177. ., fracture of, 135. Clay, moist, 274. Closure of vessels, temporary, 43. Clove hitch, 125. Clover, 17. Cocaine, iS. Coins in oesophagus, 84. Cold as a haemostatic, 55, Collar, Moore's, 227.319 INDEX. Collar, Owen's, 228. Walsham's, 228. Colles' fracture, 146. Compression, digital, of main ar- teries, 65. Congestion, passive, for acute in- flammation, 37. Cookery, sickroom, 303. Coronary artery of the lip, com- pression of, 50. Corrosive sublimate, 22. Counter-irritation, 72. Cradle, Salter's, 157. Croft's splint, 234. Croton oil, 73. Croup, 82. Cupping, 71. Cut-throat, 88. Cvstoscopic examination, appli- ances for, 295. Davy's hammock, 223. Deep cavities, bleeding from, 61. Delirium tremens, danger of, after operation, 6. Deposits in urine, examination of, 253. ,, organic, in urine, 253. Diphtheria, 82, 281. Discharges, microscopical examin- ation, 280. Dislocation, compound, 79. ,, diagnosis of, 165. „ of clavicle, 166. ,, „ elbow, 168. „ hip, 170. ,, „ lowar jaw, 169. „ „ patella, 171. „ „ phalanges, i6g. ,, „ shoulder, 166. ,, thumb, 169. ,, „ wrist, 169. Dorsal caries, support for, 224. Douche, nasal, 258. Drainage of wounds, 21. Dropfinger, 169. Drowned (apparently), treatment df, 87. Duncan, J., 194. Dupuytren's splint, 157. Durham's tracheotomy tube, 98. Ear, foreign body in, 81. „ syringing, 258. Eccles, 184. Effleurage, 185. Elbow-joint, dislocation of, 168. fixation of, 214. fracture into, 142. „ Jones's splint for, 214 ,, pasteboard splint for, 214. Elbow, splint for, after excision, 232. Electricity, surgical application of, 188. Electrode, 191. Electro-diagnosis, 192. ,, -motive force, 189. ,, -therapeutics, 192. Electrolysis, 194. Emergency apparatus, 92. „ cases, 73. Emetics, 93. Enema apparatus, 258. „ before operation, 6. „ to administer, 285. Enemata, nutrient, 11, 286. Epistaxis, treatment of, 5i. Epithelial scales in urine, 253. „ tube-casts in urine, 253. Ergot as haemostatic, 58. Erysipelas, 37. ,, contagion of, precau- tions against, 37. Erythema, 37. Esmarch's bloodless operation, 45. „ stirrup-splint, 213. Ether, 16. ,, spray, 20. Excision of joints, treatment after, 231. Extemporary appliances, 172. Extension, application of, 205. ,, with weight and pulley, 204. Extraction of teeth, 283. Eye, injury to, 80. Facial arteries, compression of, 49. 65. „ bones, fracture of, 163. Fainting, treatment of, 69. Faradic current, 191. Feeding by mouth-tube, 11.INDEX. 320 Feeding per anum, ir. Femoral artery, compression of, 65- Femur, fracture of, 149. Fibrous textures, bleeding from, 60. Finishing the surfaces of fixed bandages, 236. Food, difficulties in administering, II. Foot, artificial joints of, 266. „ bath, 31. „ how to cast, 271. „ pasteboard splints for, 213. Forceps, artery, various forms of, 5°- Forearm, fracture of bones of, 144. Foreign particles in urine, 255. Foulis' apparatus for washing out bladder, 10, 257. „ catch, 44. Fracture, ambulant treatment of, 278. ,, Colics', of wrist, 146. „ compound, 79. ,, examination for, 131. ,, greenstick, 135. „ into elbow-joint, 142. ,, material of splints for, 134- ,, of bones of forearm, 144. „ „ bones of leg, 155. „ „ clavicle, 135. „ ,, facial bones, 163. ,, ,, femur, neck, 149. „ „ „ shaft, 152. „ humerus, 140. ,, „ lower jaw, 164. „ „ metacarpals, 147. „ nasal bones, 164. „ „ olecranon, 145. „ „ patella, 153. „ „ pelvis, 162. „ „ phalanges, 147. „ ribs, 161. „ „ scapula, 139. „ „ skull, 163. ,, „ spine, 160. „ „ upper jaw, 164. setting of, 132. „ treatment of, 133. I Galvanic current, 194. Galvano-cautery, 195. Galvanometer, 191. Gamgee's method of cutting paste- board splints, 213. Gauze dressings in balls, 299. Genito-urinary tract, operations on, after treatment, 8. Gibbes' method of staining tubercle bacilli, 281. Glucose, for intra-venous injection, Gonococci, 281. Gooch's splint, 134. Gram's method of staining micro- organisms, 280. Granny knot, 52. Granulations, 35. Greenstick fracture, 135. Gum and chalk bandage, 236. Gunshot wounds, 29. Hacking, 185. Haemophilia, 60. Hagmorrhage, artificial arrest, 41. „ from punctured wound, 32. ,, natural arrest, 41. „ primary, 43. process of arrest, 39. ,, reactionary, 59. ,, secondary, 58. Hammock, Davy's, 223. Hand, how to cast, 270. „ purification of, 24. Handkerchief, triangular, 126 Hazeline as styptic, 57. Head, capeline bandage for, 120. „ injuries (severe). 87. „ knotted spica bandage for, 119. Heat as a haemostatic, 55. Heath, C, 50, 64. Hernia, direction of truss pressure for, 262. J, irreducible, treatment of, 264. „ strangulated, 78 ,, bowels after, 8. umbilical, truss for, 264. , ,, treatment of, in children, 264. Hip, dislocations of, 170.INDEX. 321 Hip, treatment after excision, 231. Hip-joint, extension for, 203. Thomas's splint for, 200, Horse-shoe splint, 158. Horslev's wax, 60, 289. Howard's method of artificial re- spiration, 85. Humerus, fracture of, 140. Hydrocele, 106. Hydrocyanic acid, poisoning by, 96. Hydrogen peroxide, 23. Hj-podermic injection, to give, 284. Iliac artery, external compression of, 47. Injection, hypodermic, 284. Injections, urethral, 289. Instruments for various operations, 282. Intestines, injury to, 78. Intubation, loi. Iodoform, 23, 198. Irrigation, 31. Jacket, plaster of Paris, 216. Jaw, lower, dislocation of, 169. „ fracture of, 164. Jaws, fracture of, 164. ,, operations on, after treat- ment, 10. Jones's splint for elbow-joint, 214. Jordan's plaster-jacket, 219. Junker's inhaler, 16. jury-mast, modification of, 225. „ Sayre's, 224. Kidney, bleeding from, 63. Kidneys in relation to urine, 242. Kingman's splint, 234. Kneading, 186. Knee, artificial, 268. treatment after excision, 231. Knee-joint, best position for an- chylosis of, 207. „ lateral splints for, 207. posterior ,, 208. ,, Thomas's ,, 208. ,, reduction of flexion of, 207 Knee-joint, treatment when dis- eased, 206. Kocher's reduction of dislocated shoulder, 167. Lacerated wounds, 30. Laryngo-tracheotomy, 99. Leeches, application of, 71. Leiter's ice-coil, 56, 71. Ligature of vessels, 50. ,, mode of action of, 41. Ligatures, 25. antiseptic, 297. Lime, amorphous phosphate of, 252. Lingual arteries, compression of, SO. Lister, 21, 25, 20, 45. Lister's bloodless operation, 45. chromic acid catgut, 297. Lithotomy, bleeding after, 63. ,, position, bandaging in, 125. Long splint, double, 153. single, 151. Lower jaw, bandage for, 125. fracture of, 164. Lubricant for catheters, 288. Lumbar puncture in fracture of skull, 85, 161. 1 method, 28^. Luy's urine separator, 255. IVIacewen's compression of ab- dominal aorta, 46. Macintyre's splint, 158. Mallet-finger, 169. Magneto-faradic machine, 192. Many-tailed bandage, 127. Massage, applications of, 186. dm-ation of, 186. movements employed in, 184. „ objects of, 184. ,, physiological effects of, 183. Menstruation in relation to opera- tions, 6. Mercuric chloride, 21. Metacarpals, fracture of, 147. ! Micro-organisms, varieties of, in ' urine, 255. 21INDEX. 322 Micturition, causes of frequent, 239- „ pain with, 239. Middeldorpf's splint, 142. Milliamp6re, 191. Moore's collar, 227. Morphia after operations, 7. contra-indications for, -j. „ poisoning, 95, Motor-points, 194. Mould, gelatine, 272. ,, of plaster of Paris, 270. „ piece, 272. Mouth, bleeding from, 63. ,, operations on, after treat- ment, 10. ,, wash (Guy's), 286. Mucus in urine, 247. ,, and pus in urine, tests for, 251- Miinchmeyer's transfusion, 68. Murray, Milne, on artificial re- spiration, 84. ,, on hot water as haemostatic, 55. NARES, plugging of posterior, 61. Nasal bones, fracture of, 164. ,, douche, 258. Needle beneath skin, 80. Neelsen's method of staining tubercle bacilli, 281. Nerve injuries, 32. Nose, bleeding irom, 61. Nostril, foreign body in, 81. Nourishment, general hints on, 12. Nursing lectures, syllabus of, 182. Nutrition in feverish conditions, 12. Occipital arteries, compression of, 65. O'Dwyer intubation, loi. (Esophagus, foreign body in, 84. Ohm, 190. Olecranon, fracture of, 145. Operations, preliminary treatment, S- ,, subsequent treatment, 7. Opium poisoning, 95. Organic deposits in urine, 253. Ovariotomy, treatment after, 8. Owen's collar, 228. Oxalate of lime deposited in urine Oxalic acid, poisoning by, 95. Pacquelin's thermo-cautery, 56. Pads for trusses, 262. „ form of, 262. Palmar arch, bleeding from, 64. Paraffin bandage, 236. Paraphymosis, 109. Parasites in urine, 255. Parker's tube, 97. Paste, Horsley's, 60, 289. Pasteboard splint, 23:;. Patella, dislocation of, 171. ,, fracture of, 153. Patients, carrying, 173. ,, treatment of, before operation, 5. Pelvis, fracture of, 162. Perchloride of iron as styptic, 57. Peritonitis, 8. Petersen's bag, 283. Petit's tourniquet, 43. Petrissage, 186. Phalanges, dislocation of, 169. ,, fracture of, 147. Pharynx, foreign body in, 84. Phosphates of lime, amorphous, 252. ,, stellar, 253. Phymosis, 109. Picric acid, 34, Pinching, 185. Plaster cast, 270. ,, casting, 269. ,, laminated splints, 219. „ of Paris jacket, 216. „ ,, mode of mixing, 269. ,, splints, various forms of, 233. Plasters for extension, 204. Plastic operation, preparation for, 7. Poisoning, diagnosis of, 91. „ symptoms of, 91. ,, treatment of, 93. Poisons, classification of, 91. ,, most frequent in suicide, 89. Poroplastic felt, 230. „ splints, 235.323 INDEX. Post-mortem examination, how to make, 275. Pott, 144. Poultices, antiseptic, 70. methods of making, 286. various, 287. Pressure, 54. graduated, 54. Prostate acutely inflamed, 77. „ bleeding from, 63. ,, enlarged, causing reten- tion, 76. Prussic acid, poisoning by, 96. Pulse-indications, in wound-fever, 69. Pump, constant suction, 259. Punctured wounds, 32. Pus-cells in urine, 254. ,, and mucus in urine, test for, 2^0. Radius, fracture of, 146. Rectal alimentation, 11. Rectum, bleeding from, 62. irritable, treatment of, 12. ,, operation on, treatment after, 7. Reef knot, 51. Respiration, arrest of, 15. artificial, 84. ,, obstruction to, 81. Rest, benefits of, 197. Rheophores, 191. Rheostat, 191. Ribs, fracture of, 160. Rolling bandages, 110. Sabine ointment, 73. Salt solution, sterile, 27, 66. Salter's cradle, 157. Sawdust as a surgical dressing, 290. Say re, 136. Sayre's jury-mast, 224. plaster jacket, 216. Scalds, 32. Scapula, fracture of, 139. Schleich on cocaine, 18. Seats, hand (for carrying patients), 174. Secretions, microscopical examina- tion of, 280. Sepsis, 28. Septic wounds, 28. Shaving before operation, 6. Shock, 66. Shorthand, uses of, i, 301. Shoulder after excision, 232. „ -joint, fixation of, 213. Sickness, chloroform, 17. Sinuses, cause and treatment of, 37- . , , ■ . Skin, cleansing before operation, 6. „ grafting, 36-. ^, „ Thiersch s method, 36. ,, transplantation, 37. Skull, fracture of, 162. base, 162. gunshot wounds of, 29. Sleeplessness after operations, treatment of, 7. Sling extemporary, 176. Smith, J., 283. Southey, 107. Spasm of constrictor urethrse, 77. Specimens, to preserve colour of, 296, Spermatozoa in urine, 255. Spica bandages. 114. Spina bifida, 105. Spinal column, disease of, treat- ment, 215. Spine, fracture of, 160. Spiral truss, 262. Splint, Bavarian, 234. „ Box, 156. „ Croft's, 234. Dupuytren's, 157, „ Gooch's, 134. ,, horse-shoe, 158. „ Kingman's, 234, „ long. ISO- ,, Macintyre's, 158. neck, 229. „ pasteboard, 235. ,, plaster, to remove, 233. ,, Watson's, 231. Splints, extemporary, 173. ,, materials for, 134. Sponges, to cleanse and purify, 287. Sprains, 171. Square handkerchief, 127. Staining of micro-organisms, 280. Starch bandage, 235.INDEX. 324 Starch poultice, 287. Stay-knot, 42. Sterilisers, 292. Stomach, method of washing out, 258. „ pump, 92. Strapping the testis, 129. ,, wounds, 28. Stretcher, extemporary, 175. Stromeyer cushion, 142. Strychnine, 95. Stump, bandaging of, 121. Stumps, management of old-stand- ing, 269. Styptics, application of, 57. „ external action of, 42. „ internal ,, 42. „ various, 57. Subclavian artery, compression of, 48, 65. Sugar in urine, test for, 249. Suicide attempted by poison, 89. Suppositories, peptonised, 12. Suspension for plaster jacket, 218. Suspensory bandage, 127. Sutures, 25. Sylvester's method of artificial re- spiration, 85. Syme, Professor, 7, 48, 63, 265. Syncope, treatment of, 69. Syphon apparatus, explanation of, 258. „ and its uses, 258. „ stomach pump, 92. „ thread, uses of, 258. Syringe, hypodermic, 284. Tamponing, method of, 61. Tannic acid as styptic, 57. Tapotement, 184. Taxis, 79. Teeth, extraction of, 283. Temperature, high, in erysipelas, 38. „ indications in wound- fever, 69. Temporal arteries, compression of, 49. 65.. Tendo Achillis, artificial, 268. Tendon, suture of, 32. Thiersch grafting, 36. Thirst, 8. Thomas's crab splint, 212. Thomas's hip-splint, 200. ,, knee-joint splint, 208. ,, neck collar, 227. Thoracis, paracentesis, 107. Thorax, gunshot wounds of, 30. Thrusting, 184. Thumb, dislocation of, 169. Toe nail, 105. Tonsil, bleeding after removal of 64. „ removal of, 103. Torsion, method of applying, 53. ,, principle of, 41. Tourniquet, Petit's, mode of apply- ing. 43- Tracheotomy, 97. Transfusion, 65. Treatment, constitutional, before operation, 5. ,, constitutional, after operation, 7. Trendelenberg position, 61. Trephining, 87. Triangular handkerchief, 126. Truss, directions for fitting, 263. ,, Salmon and Ody's, 262. „ single and double spiral, 262. ,, when removable, 264. Trusses for adults, 261. Tube-casts, varieties of, 253. Tubercle bacillus, 281, Tubercular abscess, 198. Turpentine as styptic, 57. Ulcer, to strap, 35. Ulcers, callous, 35. ,, tertiary syphilitic, local treatment of, 35. ,, tertiary syphilitic, constitu- tional treatment of, 36. ,, treatment of, 34. ,, varicose, 35. Urates, their variety, 246, 251. Urethra, pus from, 245 ,, rupture of, 77. Uric acid deposited in urine, 351. Urinary deposits, occurrence of, 246. „ deposit, before and after cooling, 246. Urine, albumen in, test for, 248. bile in, 243.325 INDEX. Urine, bile in, test for, 250. ,, blood-stained, 244. „ collection of, from each ureter, 255. ,, colour of healthy, 240. ,, diminished, 238. discoloured by carbolic acid, 240. ,, examination of, 247. deposits in, 253- \ for dissolved sub- stances, 248 ., foetid, treatment of, 9. „ its importance in surgical cases, 237. increased quantity of, 238. ,, mucus and pus in, test for, 250. ,, odour of, 239. ,, pus in, 243, 245. ,, and mucus in, test for, 250. ,, quantity, 237. ,, reaction of, 241. ,, retention of, 74. after operation on anus, 7. ,, sources of blood in, 245. „ specific gravity of, 242, 247. „ sugar in, 243. ,, ,, test for, 249. ,, suppression of, 238. transparency of, 240. variations in normal excre- tion of, 237. Vagina leeching, 71. Varicose veins, bleeding from, 63. Veins, air in, 108. Venesection, 72. Vessels, ligature of, 50. Volkmann's ankle-splint, 213. Volt, 190. Vomiting, 15, 18. Wagstaffe, 235. Waist-band for tying in catheter, 261. Walsham's collar, 228. Waste fluids, carrying off, 260. Waterbed, to fill, 288. Waterglass bandage, 235. Waterhead, uses of, 258. Watson's splint, 231. Whitlow, 38. Wound-fever, pulse - indications, 69- ,, temperature mdica- tions, 69. treatment of, 70. Wounds, extemporary treatment of, 177. ,, gunshot, 29. ,, lacerated, 30. ,, punctured, 32. Wrist, dislocation of, 169. ,, splint for, after excision, 232. Wyeth's pins, 47, 49- X-RAY in removing foreign bodies, 80, 83. for diagnosis of fractures, 131- Zinc chloride, 24. Bell & Bam, Limited, Printers, Glasgow.