ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY AT HOME: A SHORT TREATISE FOR RETURNED EXILES. THE WIFE OF A RETIRED INDIAN OFFICER. London: HORACE COX, “The Queen” Office, Windsor House, Bream’s Buildings,E.C. 1895. {ALL lUailT& REHERVED.\f5Sl<^ IC? LONDON: PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. (SlTPREFACE. Inasmuch as the demand for books on Anglo-Indian cookery and housekeeping still exists, in spite of the many excellent works already published on these subjects, I am induced to compile this little volume with a hope that it may prove acceptable to those Anglo-Indian ladies who are not too proud to sTipplement their experience with mine. It is my endeavour, therefore, to give in these pages the result of knowledge gained during twenty-three years of married life in India, and which, I sincerely trust, may be of service to those who, having finally quitted the East, may still hanker, now and again, after the fleshpots of the land of their exile. As I have resided in various j)arts of India, I submit I am in a position to strike a fair average, whereby my wrinkles and recipes may be acceptable to those whose lots may erewhile have been cast anywhere from Peshawur to Cape Comorin; from Kurrachee to Calcutta. My aim being to supply a cookery book for “ Old Indians ” in England, I have not, as a rule, given vernacular terms, weights, or quantities, endeavouring to adapt my instructions to the conditions ruling here, which ar(> somewhat different to those olffaining out yonder. I could give many more recipes on all culinary subjectsPREFxlCE. IV and yet be witliin my profession—i.e., tlie furnishing of a guide to Anglo-Indian Cookery in England—but the many difficulties to contend with in producing all but the plainer styles of dishes are so obvious, that 1 feel sure my fellow Anglo-Indians and the general Public will pardon the small dimensions of the book wherewith 1 seek to gain their favour. HENRIETTA A. HERVEY, The Wife of a Retired Indian Officer. Hammersmith, W., November, 1894.MCLOflDlJl COOKERY IT HOME, SOME HINTS. Provide yourself with a set of agate or enamel ware utensils, with, preferably, flat-handled lids. I brought home ray “Dekehies”—tinned just previous to embarking at Bombay—but, in due course, they required the atten- tions of the “ Kalai Man,” and I looked for him and his grimy assistant in vain. I was told to try Whiteley; but his prices for “ Kalying ” I found to bo so prohibitive, that my “Dekehies” have been consigned to the kitchen cupboard as useless. I strongly advise the purchase of a mincing or sausage machine, to be firmly fixed to the dresser. English kitchens, as a rule, are boarded, and in close proximity to the dwelling-rooms. More, they are resonant, and the average English servant, be she cook or “general,” is not light-handed. Chopping, therefore, is inconvenient; the noise is not mellowed by di-stance, as is the case in India. So, if there be any objection to a machine, provide a corner of the dresser or kitchen table with a small stone slab. By placing a thick board on the slab, and chopping thereon, the sound will be minimised. By keo])ing the kitchen door shut as much as possible, o]»euing the BANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 2 window when feasible, that objectionable feature of English domestic life, to wit, the “smell of dinner,” will be ap])reciably ameliorated. To those of ns who have a weakness for the soft fresh bread of the Indian “ Eoti Walli,” the dryasdust London jirticle is an infliction. I find the only way to keep l)read from drying up altogether is to deposit it in an earthen }>an and cover the mouth with a clean damp cloth of several folds. Though butter, lard, and drij)ping are substitutes for “ ghee,” still, for Indian cookery there is nothing like this last. I intend giving a recipe for the making of “ghee,” and I very strongly advise its adoption when making up anything from this little book. The English servant, I find, is open to instruction. Ours, a raw country Essex girl, has learnt to boil rice as well as any old “ Thnnnikurchi ” or cook-boy out there, and I am hopeful of being able to entrust her with curries, &c., at no very distant date. Patience is a virtue and—everything.SOUPS. Mock Turtle Soup.—Take a calf’s head, and remove the skin hy soakiug it for a couple of hours in cold water. When thoroughly cleansed, put the head into a large saucepan, pour on cold water sufficient to cover, and place on a moderate fire till it boils. Now take off the lid, and remove the scum. Let the soup simmer gently for seven hours, or until the bone and meat separate, when strain off through a clean toAvel, and set aside till quite cold. The grease will now have come to the surface, and must be carefully removed. Replace the soup on a slow fire for five minutes, again set aside to cool, add a little sweet herb, a shred of celery, the peel of half a lemon, the whisked whites and crushed shells of two eggs. Pour the mixture from one saucepan to another, which greatly helps the process of clearing, replace on fire, allowing the whole to boil; then let it settle for a few minutes, after which strain through another clean towel. Before serving, add sufficient “broAvning,” salt to taste, and, at the last moment, a glass of good sherrv. Have ready in the tureen some thin slices of the soup- meat and tongue, and on which pour the boiling soup. Mulligatawny Soup.—A tables[)Oonful of “ ghee,” or butter, and an onion sliced. Put both into a saucepan, B 2ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 4 with a few curry leaves (if procurable). Fry till brown. Add a large tablespoonful of curry paste or powder, and fry. Take a fowl or chicken, already jointed, and the back cut in three portions: add this to the above with a large teacup of cold water. Cover the saucepan, and boil slowly till the meat is tender. Now add tamarind to taste (or vinegar), and liaK a cocoanut, ground to a paste, or the extracted milk. Boil all together till the grease is seen to rise to the surface, and, just before it comes to table squeeze in a little lime or lemon juice. Pea-Fowl Mulligatawny Soup—Having cleaned and jointed the fowl, boil in about three quarts of water with some black peppercorns and a small quantity of mixed spices. Continue boiling for three hours, removing the scum frequently. Now strain and keep aside. Fry some of the fowl meat with sliced onion, to a deep brown with butter; throw it into the liquor; replace on the fire, and boil gently for some minutes. Now put in a table- spoonful of curry-powder or jjaste, and let the whole boil gently till the meat is tender. Lholl or Split Poa Soup.—Soajc about a pint of them in water for some hours ; then boil till they are sufficientlv soft to bo easily mashed. Put the mass into some stock with a little lean bacon or ham bone, and a piece of celery. Boil for half-aii-hour. Accompany the soup with some bread, cut in dice, and fried crisp. Plain Pice Soup.- Thoroughly wash a handful of rice (Bengal preferably), parboil and dry it. Having already made some good gravy soup, well seasoned, add your rice,5 SOUPS. and give the whole a boil till the rice is thoroughly done. The making of the gravy soup is sufficiently well under- stood in this country to need any instructions from me. Pepper Water Soup.—This is such a favourite with most old Indians, especially those who have lived in the Madras Presidency, that I must be excused from dwelling at some length on the subject. No. 1. Plain Pepper Water Soup.—Gret together the following ingredients : Coriander, cummin, and mustard seed, mixed, one dessertspoonful. Dried capsicums or chillies, from one to six. Saffron powder, half a dessertspoonful. G-arlic, three cloves. Tamarind, two ounces. Barring the last two, dry (in the oven) and thoroughly pound the others; then put the whole in a saucepan with a quart of cold water, mix well, cover close, and boil for forty minutes. After allowing the liquor to settle, strain it through a clean rough towel. Into another vessel put a dessertspoonful of “ ghee ” or butter, in which fry half an onion to a dark brown ; over this pour your soup, previously strained, and give it a boil np. It can be drunk like tea from a cup or eaten like curry or mulligatawny with boiled rice. An ex- cellent remedy for a “ sick headache.” No. II. Dhall, or Eed Pulse Pepper Water Soup.—In two pints of water, boil a large cupful of the grain till sufficiently soft, and strain it. Into the same water put the following, well ground: A small piece of saffron or turmeric, one or two chillies or capsicums, a few cloves of garlic, and a teaspoonful of each of the following,G ANGLO-Ils^DIAN COOKERY. pepper, mustard, cummin seeds, also a tablespoonful of either tamarind water or vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes. In another pan, fry half an onion in “ ghee ” or butter well brown, j:)Our in your pepper water, and give the whole another boil. To be eaten in the same wav as the last. No. III. Dhall, or Red Pulse Pepper Water Soup.—Preferably in an iron j3an, fry an ounce of the pulse and an ounce of black pepper with a dessertspoonful of “ ghee ” or butter ; having done which, grind or pound the mixture to a paste. Add two tablespoonsful of tamarind water and two teacuj)s of water, and as it boils add a teasi^oonful each of cummin, fenugreek, and mustard seed, previously fried in “ ghee ” or butter. Eat in the same wa.y. No. IV. Prawn Powder Pepper Water Soup.— Make your soup as in No. I. ; add two dessertspoonsfuls of l>rawn powder and a little lime or lemon juice ; give it one boil and serve. To be eaten as the others.Fried Fish.—The Indian method is somewhat different to the ordinary English one, so I give it. Having first washed yonr fish, dip it in a “ pigment” of saffron powder and water, which will have the effect of giving the fish a yellow colour. Powder it over with a little salt, and then dab it lightly with a dry cloth. Having beaten up an egg, and got ready some breadcrumbs, dip the fish into the egg and then into the breadcrumbs. Fry till light brown, in plenty of “ ghee,” lard, or dripping. Fish Molee ,—This is best made of fish that has previously been fried. Put it in a saucepan with one small sliced onion (of the size ordinarily procurable here), a couple of ounces of sliced green ginger, three or four cut gi’een chillies or capsicums, and a little saffron or turmeric powder. Stir in the milk of half a cocoanut and the juice of a lemon. Keep over a slow fire for ten minutes. This makes a favourite breakfast dish, essentially Indian. It can be eaten like curry with boiled rice or with bread. Tamarind Fish.—Take four or five pounds of good fish (salmon or cod are the best for the purpose in this country), scale, clean, and cut into inch-thick slices. Rub each piece well with salt, and let the whole stand for a day, or even longer. Then dry with a cloth, and place on8 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. a clean disli exposed to the air for several hours, turning the fish occasionally. Take a pound of dried tamarind, plunge it into boiling vinegar (about two quarts), and having mashed it well, extract the juice, which should be of the consistency of pulp. Take three ounces of dried red chillies, and two ounces of garlic; grind both with vinegar into a paste. Add a tablespoonful of saffron or turmeric powder and mix all into the tamarind juice. Then souse your fish, piece by piece, in the mixture, and put into wide-mouthed bottles, pouring over the residue of the mixture. To be eaten, fried in “ ghee ” or butter, either as a relish with curry or by itself, with boiled rice or bread and butter. Salted Fish Roe. Homo Made.—This is another Indian delicacy one misses so much in England. The roes must be quite fresh. Eub them thoroughly with common salt, and let stand for twenty-four hours. Dry them with a soft cloth, and put them in the sun or near the fire, till all the semblance of moisture has disappeared. Wrap them separately in paper, and keep in large mouth glass bottles. To eat them, fry as you would fish. They give a zest to curry and rice, or bread and butter. ’Ware cats if you dry your roes in the sun! Salt Fish Pie—I give this recipe with some difiidence, inasmuch as the pecuhar piquant flavour of good Indian cured fish, and which alone renders this pie so attractive, is wanting in the home production. At least, such is my humble opinion. However, I may possibly be wrong. Having soaked your fish the previous night, boil it, remove the skin and bones, and set it aside to cool. HaveFISH. 9 ready six hard-boiled eggs, three raw onions, and some boiled potatoes, all sliced thin. Now commence to build up your pie dish with successive layers of jjotato, onion, fish, and egg, introducing a little pepper (no salt) between the layers. When the dish is full pour in two tablespoon- fuls of anchovy and any other sauce, mixed; put in a lump of butter, lard, or dripping; crown all with potato crust, paint with yolk of egg, and bake till brown. Twice Laid.—Here is a favourite way of disposing of any fish “remainders” out yonder. Take a pound of cold boiled or fried fish; bone it, and mash it up with six or eight well-boiled potatoes. Add a dessertspoonful of salad oil, a dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce, a table- spoonful of vinegar, a pinch or two of red pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix all well together, put it into a buttered pie dish, cover with beaten egg, and bake till brown.CURRIES. Note ,—Here in England, I find Crosse and Blackwell’s the nearest approach to the real article in the way of curry powder. It will be understood, therefore, that in this chapter, when curry powder is mentioned, 1 allude to that supplied by the above-named well-known firm. The concoction of curry powder, however, is greatly a matter of individual taste, both as regards flavour aud pungency ; but to procure it exactly in accordance with one’s own ideas of fitness, would, in this country, be a matter of much expense, if not difficulty. I brought home a small supply, made on my own recipe, but, alas! it soon ran out, and the fall back on Crosse and Blackwell’s (for we are inveterate curry eaters !) is a pis aller at the best. Tliose to whom time and ex]oense is of no consequence, I could not better advise than to procure their curry powder, paste, &c., from Messrs. Spencer and Co., or Messrs. Oakes and Co., both of the Mount Road, Madras. The “ Benighted Presidency,” remember is, par excellence, the home of curry and rice, and where the ingredients are produced and blended to perfection. There is an on (lit down there that when the Prince of Wales was on his Indian tour he was actuated into wishing to visit Madras solely by a desire of tasting a Madras prawn curry at our famous club. True, Bengal and Bombay have tlieir resi>ective especial l>rands, but their curry-making is ])oorCURRIES. 11 in eoniparison to that of the Madrasees. On the P. and 0. they ring the changes on the three Presidencies with reirard to their curries, serving Madras, Bombay, and Bengal day after day in monotonous sequence; but the strangest j)art of it is that the curries are all made with the same powder; your own palate proves this beyond a doubt. But now to my task. Chicken Curry.—Take a chicken or a yomig fowl; skin, clean, and joint it, dividing the back bone into three. Put a tablespoonful of “ ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping into a stewpan with one shredded onion, and fry till brown. Now add a few cloves of garlic, and a table- spoonful of curry powder ; and fry all together for some minutes, taking care that the mixture does not “ catch ” at the bottom of the pan. Throw in your meat and fry for several minutes, stirring briskly. Next pour in a breakfastcup and a half of water with a little salt, give it a thorough stir ; cover, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Now uncover, and as soon as the gravy thickens (be., the water has boiled away), add a teacupful of cocoanut milk, or cow’s milk, and again boil for five minutes. As soon as the grease rises to the surface, pour in a tablespoonful of tamarind water, vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon. Keep on the fire for a few minutes longer, then serve. Fresh Mutton Curry.—The neck is undeniably the best part. Cut up and wash one pound of meat, fry your onion (as above), add your garlic and curry powder, fry all well together, then ])ut in the mutton; fry it in thc> mixture, and, when well amalgamated, add two breakfast-12 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. cupfuls of water and a little salt; cover, and let it simmer gently for about fifteen minutes, or until you find the meat tender and the liquid perceptibly diminished. Now add a teacupful of cocoanut or cow’s milk; go on simmering till the grease appears at the surface and the gravy thickens, when add a tablespoonful of tamarind water, vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon, and serve. Cold Meat (any kind) Curry—Cut it up into dice, and proceed exactly as if you were dealing with fresh mutton (as above), only omitting the two breakfast cupfuls of water and its attendant fifteen minutes boil. Ball Curry.—You will fiud a mincing machine handy in making this, our noisy Indian method of chopping and mincing being impracticable in this country. Any description of meat will do ; mince a pound of it. Grrind to a paste the following : A piece of green ginger, a little allspice and salt, half an onion, half a garlic. Mash this paste with the mince meat and the yolk of one egg. Fashion the mixture into balls, the size of large cherries, and fry them in “ ghee,” butter, dripping, or lard. Your balls now being ready, take them out of the grease, which utilise by frying therein one sliced onion till brown; then add a tablespoonful of curry powder and fry, after which pour in a teacup of cocoanut or cow’s milk and give it a boil, when add the balls, cover, and allow to simmer for ten minutes. Now uncover, stirring occasionally till the gravy thickens, when add a tablespoonful of tamarind water, vinegar, or juice of half a lemon, and serve. Malay Curry.—Called also Ceylon Curry. A delicious preparation, and an agreeable change. Chicken, mutton.13 CURRIES. or fisli can be used. The following requisites are indis- pensable, and should be all at hand before commencing operations :—A whole cocoanut, a tablespoonful of coriander, a tablespoonful of poppy seed, an ounce of green ginger, six green chillies or capsicums, a tea- spoonful of powdered saffron, one onion, a little garlic, allspice, and salt. Pound or grind the coriander and poppy seed into a paste. Mix the saffron powder with a little water. Peel and slice the green ginger and onion. Peel and bruise the garlic. Cut your meat or fish into small pieces (if chicken, joint it), put it into a saucepan; add all the above ingredients, and pour in a breakfast- cup of cocoanut milk (of course extracted from the nut aforesaid; cows’ milk will not answer for this curry). Grive the whole a stirring, put on the lid, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Now uncover, and pour in half a cupful more of co**oanut milk, then a tablespoonful of lemon juice; and finally allow it to simmer gently for fifteen minutes. The addition of vegetable marrow or cucumber with the meat is a great improvement. “Khoormah” Curry.—This is a Mahometan dish, and, if made successfullj, constitutes an agreeable change from our “English” curries. Get together the following ingredients;—Two tablespoonfuls of coriander, six cloves of garlic, six red chillies, one onion, half an ounce of green ginger, one tablespoonful of salt. Pound or grind all these into a paste. Take two pounds of mutton, cut into small pieces, and mix with the paste till both are tho- roughly amalgamated. Now mix in two tablespoonfuls of fresh hutter, two breakfastcups of milk curds, a little allspice, and an onion thinly sliced. Put all into a sauce-J4 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. pan, and allow to siininer gently till the liquid almost all disappears. Eat with “ Chiipatties ” or flour cakes (whi(;h S(!e further on). Kabob ” Curry.—For this you require skewers. Ordi- nary metal knitting needles, cut to about four inches long, looped like a key head at one end and sharpened at the other, will answer admirably. To make up a dozen skewers of “ Kabob ” you will require as follows : — One pound of mutton from the leg, some small onions about the size of cherries, some green chillies or capsicums, a root or two of green ginger, some cloves of garlic. Cut the meat in small pieces, halve the onions, slice the green ginger and the green chillies or capsicums. Now skewer on the meat, the onion, the chillies or capsi- cums, the green ginger and garlic alternately; lacking close from hilt to point. Put a tablespoonful of ‘‘ ghee,” lard, butter, or dripping into a rather large stewpan, add a tablespoonfiil of curry powder, and fry well. Now ]iut in your skewers, carefully rolling them in the pan for five minutes ; pour in water enough to cover the skewers, add a little salt, and boil for ten minutes. Now add a break- fast cupful of cocoanut or cows’ milk, and b 'il gently for another ten minutes. As soon as the gravy thickens, add a tablespoonful of tamarind water, vinegar, or juice of half a lemon, and serve. Note, that by lubricating the skewers with a little grease, previous to charging, the curry is easily detachable by means of a fork; otherwise, as any old Indian knows, the consequences may be disastrous ! Fish Curry.—Soles and cod are, I think, the most suitable. Get two pounds filleted at the fishmonger’s. AVash the fish and s])rinkle wuth a little salt. Put it intoCURRIES. 16 a stewpaii with weak tamarind water enough to covei’, and let it simmer on a slotv fire for fifteen minutes. In another vessel, in a tablespoonful of “ ghee,” lard, butter, or dripping, fry a sliced onion and a little gailic; to which, when brown, add a tablespoonful of curry powder; fry for two minutes, and then add the contents of the other stewpan; cover and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Now uncover, stir gingerly, and as soon as the gravv thickens, serve. Prawn Curry.—Immerse a soup-[dateful of small prawns into boiling salted water; shell, head, and tail them, put into a stewpan, and add weak tamarind water sufficient to cover; then mix in two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, and add a green chillie, a clove of garlic, a little allspice, and sliced ginger. Stir, and allow to stand for half an hour. In a second pan brown a sliced onion in the usual manner, add the contents of the other pan, and boil gently for half an hour and serve. Crab Curry.—Boil a good sized crab, and break tlie meat as little as possible while taking it out of the shell. Take two tablespoonfuls of “ ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping, put it in a pan, and bring to a boil. Throw in a sliced onion, a few cloves of garlic, and a tablespoonful of curry powder; fry well; then add the crab meat, and continue frying for two minutes longer. Now pour in half a breakfast cupful of cocoanut or cow’s milk and serve. Eemember your crab is already cooked. Dry Cuny.—Cut up a pound of any meat very small, almost minced. Put it in a pan with a large tablespoon- ful o! “ gluM',” butter, lard, or drl])}»ing, a clove of garlic,ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 16 a tablespoonfiil of cuny powder, and one onion sliced. Fry all together over a slow fire. As soon as the grease disappears, add salt and a tablespoonful of tamarind water, vinegar, or lemon juice, and serve. Egg Curry .—Hard-boil some eggs ; shell, cut in half, and keep aside. Into a pan put a tablespoonful of “ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping, and a sliced onion, some garlic, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and fry for two minutes; then add a breakfast cupful of cocoanut or cow’s milk and a little salt. As soon as the liquid boils away, add half a cup of tamarind water; give one boil and pour this gravy over your previously prepared eggs, and serve. Tomato Curry with Prawns.—Prepare your prawns as shewn in recipe (above) for plain prawn curry, and have ready the following :—Six green chillies sliced, a teaspoon- ful of salt, one whole garlic, one sliced onion, a small piece of green ginger sliced, and a tablespoonful of coriander with two red chillies reduced to a paste. Put a dozen large tomatoes in boiling water. Place in a stew- pan two tablespoonfuls of “ ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping; add the prawns with the salt and fry well. Next put in the green chillies, garlic, onions, green ginger, and coriander-chillie paste. Continue frying for some minutes longer, then throw in the tomatoes, previously halved, and the milk of a whole cocoanut or a breakfast- cupful of cow’s milk. Let the whole simmer over a gentle fire till the gravy gets thick, when serve. “ Ehall/’ or Split Lentils Curry.—Take a lueakfast- cu]) of lentils and sift it free of gravel or small stoiu's;CURRIES. 17 then partially j^arch it in a dry pan over a clear fire. Tb is done, put it in a stew})an ; add cold water with a little saffron ; simmer gently till the grain is soft and the water has nigh boiled away. In another ])an, fry one sliced onion till brown ; throw in a chillie, also the boiled lentils, and fry the whole together, seasoning with salt and cayenne pepper. The curry should be of the con- sistency of mashed potatoes. Cold Fowl, or “ Country Captain ” Curry.—Fry an onion till quite crisp in a tablespoonful of “ ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping. Remove the onion and place by the fire. Joint your cold fowl, it well with curry powder, then fry in the same grease you used for the onion; continue this, stirring briskly, till the grease disa])pears. Now place the meat in a dish and scatter on your crisped onions and a little salt. Be careful to prevent the meat from burning while being fried. cAXGLO-INDIAN CnOKER V. 18 \{\VK. To Boil Plain Eice.- T ako, say, a ])()uiid of Patna rice, wash well in cold water, and drain it. Have ready a sonie- wliat large vessel of boiling water, throw in the rice, and stir occasionallv. To know if done, trv a grain between the finger and thumb. When sufficiently soft, add a cupful of cold water, and give a good stir; then drain off all the water, shake the vessel, and })lace near the fire to strain. Another Method ,—First spread it on a tal)le or cloth, and pick out all the stones or gravel; then wash in two or three different waters, rubbing the rice well between the hands ; add a little lemon juice, or alum j^owder to whiten it; drain and throw it into a large quantity of water; let it boil gently, and continue until it is tender,or onlv a small core in the centre remains ; throw it in a cullender and let it drain for a few minutes; then return it into the saucepan and ]dace it near the fire, so that it may steam quite dry. ‘‘Kitcherry” Eico.—Take half a pint of “dhall,” or split lentils or dry peas, and steep them in water ; to this add half a pound of clean rice, a little sliced green ginger, salt and allspice; Iwil gently till the grain is tender and the water evaj)orates. Previously prepare six hard boiled eggs, cuf in two, am! some cris]>(‘d onions. Heap tlielUCE. 19 rice and “ dhall ” on a dish, and garnish with the eggs and onion. To he a success, every grain of both rice and “ dhall ” should be separate. Cocoanut Hice.—Steep, say, a pound of fine rice in water for half an hour, after which drain it thoroughly. Take the milk of two cocoanuts and pour over the rice, adding cold water if necessary till the grain is fully immersed; throw in a little saffron powder (this last to tinge the rice), cover, and allow to boil very gently. When done, and in order to steam or dry it, proceed exactly as per directions for boiling plain rice. Mutton “Pullow” nice.- Take a pound of fine rice and wash it well, allowing it to soak till yon are ready for it. Bruise a whole garlic, an ounce of green ginger, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and throw all three into a large cupful of butter milk or whey; stir well and put this mixture over a couple of pounds of young mutton. Now heat a breakfast cupful of “ghee,” or butter (lard and drip])ing wmn’t do) in a good sized vessel, fry in it one sliced onion till brown, add the meat, and continue frying for ten minutes. Now pour in a large cup of rich milk, then your rice, with an eggspoonful of powdered allspice, and add water sufficient to immerse the rice and meat ; this last if necessary. Cover and boil gently till the rice is nearJy done, when remove the pan from the fire, uncover, and place it by the side or on the top of the boiler or oven for half-an-hour. A little lemon juice, added on removing from off the fire, is an improvement. This dish is called “ Ukhnee pullow” by the Mahometans, and is made to the greatest ]H'r- fection in TTyderal)ad Peccan. C 2ANGLO-INDIAN COOKER Y. 20 Fowl ‘‘Pullow” Bice .—Clean, truss, and boil a balf- grown fowl. Take a pound of thinly sliced mutton and one whole onion, place in six quarts of water, and boil till reduced to one-third. Now remove from the fire, and, with a wooden spoon, mash the meat and onion in the broth ; strain through coarse muslin and keep the “liquor” l>y. Now wash half a ]>ound of fine rice and dry it well. Melt half a pound of “ghee” or butter in a large saucepan, and in it fry a teacupful of shredded onion till crisp and brown ; take out the onion, and in the butter that remains slightly fry your previously Ijoiled fowl. Take out the fowl, and again in the same butter slightly fry the rice. As soon as the butter evaporates, add your “ liquor” and boil the rice in it; add a teasj)oon- ful of allspice, a little salt, and a few slices of green ginger. When the rice is done, considerably reduce your fire, and place some red-hot embers 07i the cover. Let it be for a few minutes, when introduce the fowl, with a view to imparting a flavour of the bird. Let it stand for another five minutes, and serve, heaping the rice over the fowl, garnishing with halved hard-boiled eggs and the crisped onions. “English” Pullow .—This is the recipe for the dish as is generally seen on Anglo-Indian tables. The same process is observed, with but little variation, throughout the empire. Wash and soak in cold water for twenty minutes a ])ound of Patna or other fine rice. In a larg(' stewpan bring to a boil half a pound of “ghee” or butter, in which fry a finely shred onion to a crisp brown. Remove the onion, but not the butter, and into which last put a small handful of allspice, frying briskly for a21 RICE. iiiimite; then add the rice, keeping it stirred till the gi'ciiu turns colour. Now j>our in some previously prepared stock, sufficient to more than immerse the rice ; stir in a little salt, cover, and boil gently. As the liquid evaporates, uncover and stir constantly till the rice is cooked. Now let it steam by the fireside for ten minutes, stirring frequently, till the grains separate, when serve; garnishing with hard boiled eggs, your crisped onions, and some lightly fried raisins and sliced almonds.ANCILO-INDIAN HOOKER T. 9*> SAVOUliY DISHES. Ballachow.”—Wasli, liead, tail, and shell a poiiiid of small sized prawns fif possible, not larger than those we get out yonder), and pound or grind them to a paste. Take six dry chillies or caj)sicnms, a tahlespoonful of salt, one whole garlic, two ounces of green ginger, and a pint of tamarind water. Mix these ingredients with half a pound of butter; add the prawn paste, and amalgamate the whole mass. Keep in glass bottles. When required for use, fry the paste with chopped onion and a little lemon peel. To be eaten as a zest with curry, or with bread and butter. Indian Eamakin Toast • .A.ny hind of plated cheese, butter, and flour in equal quantities; measiu’e with a tablespoon, and, for each spoonful of the ingredients, add the yolh of an egg ; mix the whole well together, spread thickly on toast; brown in the oven, and serve hot. A sprinkling of cayenne pepper, mustard, j^epper, and salt is an improvement. Indian Mutton Cutlets.—Most old Indians, will, I think, admit that the cutlets out yonder are far superior to the home production ; so I give the folhnving recipe, which I always find successful, not only with mutton, but with23 SAVOURY DISHES. Iteef and chicken. In a machine, mince a i:>oimd of lean meat; mix with a finely chopped onion, a table spoonfed of chopped sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Then mix in the yolks of two eggs ; shajee into flat discs, about three-cpiarters of an inch thick ; dip each first into egg, then into breadcrumbs (on one side only), and fry till brown, turning occasionally. Baked “Brinjar’ Cutlets .—Prepare a pound of minced meat as if for above cutlets. Take j’ix good sized “Brinjals” or egg vegetables, and boil them in salt and water. Divide them evenly—stalks and all—with a sharp knife; carefully scoop out the insid'^, which mix with your meat, and fry together for five minutes. Now refill the “ Brinjals ” with the mixture; dust with flour, and either bake in a slow oven or fry in “ ghee ” or butter. Grreen chillies or capsicums, finely chopped, may be added to taste. “ BhoiDie,” or Washerman Pie.—I am not prepared to state why this dish is so named, but I know it to be a favourite with us out there, especially where there are “ young mouths ” to fill. Cut your mutton—say two pounds—into convenient pieces; dust with pepper and salt, and partially l>roil the meat in a frying-pan. Now transfer it to a stewpan, pour on a little water, and let it simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Mash some ])Otatoes—sufficient for the pie-dish you propose using— line the dish with the mash ; put in your meat and gravy ; add two tablespoonfuls of any sauce or ketchup ; fit on a potato crust, paint over with yolk of egg, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. An onion, sliced, is approvedANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 24 of bv some. Note.—In making your jjotato crust, mix in a little flour to give consistency and ])revent sticking. “Poofadh” or '‘Buffadh.”- A dish peculiar to the Eurasians, or Indo-Britons, but one by no means to be despised. Kill, clean, and truss a duck. Get a capacious stewpan ; put in a cabbage, divided into four, then the duck, entire. Mix a little saffron powder in a large cup of water and pour over the contents of the pan. Now add two onions, a taldespoonful of “ ghee ” or butter, a little sliced green ginger, three green chillies or capsicums, half a clove of garlic. Cover and let simmer for an hour; then uncover and let it go on simmering till done, but taking care that the duck is not boiled to “ rags.” Shortly before serving, add two tablespoonsfnl of tamarind water, vinegar, or lemon juice. Chillie-Fry or “ Vuddays.” —Make a batter of two eggs and a teaspoonful of self-raising flour. Chop fine two spring onions—stalks and all—two green chillies or caps! cums, and a little salt and pepper. Mix in the batter and pour—a tablespoonfid at a time—the mixture into a frying-pan of “ frizzling ” butter. As each cake is done l)rown, take it out with a broad knife, and pour in more batter, sufficient for another, and so on, till the whole is finished. Very nice eaten alone, or as a zest with currv, &c. Goanese Tasta.”—To be had in perfection in the Boml:»ay Presidency, when your cook is a native Portuguese. Froth the whites of three eggs till the mass “stands” of itself. Take a small-sized frying-pan, and in it bringSAVOURY DISHES. 25 two tablespoonsful of butter to the boil. Put in euougli ot‘ the previously prepared white of egg till it occupies the whole area of the pan; place on a slow tire, and, A\'heu “ set,” drop in the yolks of the eggs, doing this very gently, so that they do not sink or break. Allow a little of the butter to run over the yolks to cook them. Garnish with fried sweet herbs, and serve hot. “ Ding Dong.”—Keduce to a paste four red chillies, a small piece of satfron, and half a garlic. Cut a pound of fat beef into thin slices, and rub into the meat a table- spoonful of moist sugar; then smear it with the paste, sprinkle with salt, and let it be for twelve hours. Thus prepared, the meat will keep for some time. When required, fry in a little “ ghee ” or butter, and eat with curry, or bread and butter. Foogard.”—Shell, head, and tail a dozen prawns {i.e., according to size). Take a cabbage and steep it in salt water for half an hour, after which, drain and shred it finely; then place it in a saucepan, sprinkle with salt, and steam for a few minutes, or until the cal:>bage is parboiled. ISow drain it. In a frying-pan heat a tablespoonful of “ ghee ” or batter; throw in some onion, sliced, two green chillies or capsicums, and four cloves of garlic, chopped fine ; also the prawns Fry the whole together for some minutes, stirring often. Now add your cabbage ; mix it well with the other ingredients, pour in the milk of a Avhole cocoanut, previously extracted ; give one boil, and serve with rice.2() ANGLO-lM)JAN COOKER Y. PUDDINGS, Nc. “Bombay” Pudding ,—This is a misnomer; for, strangely enough, din ing our stay in the Bomhay Presi- dency, we never had a cook who understood the making of this dish. Make a good sweet milk and egg custard, and in it soalc some moderately thick slices of stale liread, and fry in “ ghee ’’ or butter to a light brown. Make a syrup of lemon juice and sugar; serve with the “ fry,” grating a little nutmeg and sifting a little white sugar over the whole. CoCOanut Pudding.—In n pie-dish mix half a pound of grated cocoanut; the same weight of white sifted sugar; two tablespooiifuls of fresh butter ; the whites of three or four eggs, whisked ; a tablespoonful of brandy, and a teaspoonful of either orange or rosewater. Bake in a moderate oven. Plantain or Banana Pudding.—In hot ashes roast a dozen of the fruit in their skins ; then peel and cut them in slices; add sugar to taste; lialf a wine-glass of lemon juice, a little lemon peel finely chopped, a glass of sherry, a few cloves, and a lump of butter. Confine this in ordinary pudding paste and boil. To be served with ri’i'am.SAVOUR!' DISHES. Plantain or Banana “ Poorrtles ” or Fritters.—Take half a dozen ri;pe fruit, cut them down the centre, fry till brown in “ g’hee ” or butter, and sift with white sugar. The plantains must be very ripe, otherwise the astringent acridity of the fruit will render the dish uneatable. Another Method.—Mash a dozen ripe fruit. Make a sweet custard of milk and eggs; mix it with the mash; gradually add a teaspoonful of flour; sweetening to taste ; grate in a little nutmeg, and fry a tablespoonful of the mixture at a time in boiling butter. When nicelv brown, sift on a little sugar, and serve hot. Pndding.—In these days I have no doubt that “ Raggi ” is procurable in London ; but under what name I regret my inability to say. Grind half a pound of the grain to flour, and have ready the followingA pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the same quantity of butter, a whole cocoa nut, quarter of a pound of almonds, ditto of raisins, a little salt. Make a break- fast cupful of cocoanut milk; mince the almonds very fine; set the milk on the fire, and, having mixed the sugar and “ raggi ” flour with the cocoanut milk, add it to the cow’s milk as soon as it boils, stirring briskly. Give it another boil, and, when done, mix in the butter, almonds, and raisins. Pour into a dish previously buttered, and bake till brown. Bice Pudding without Eggs.—Butter a dish and place in it a teacupful of fine washed rice. Fill the dish with cow’s milk, add sugar to taste; put a lump of butter and grate a little nutmeg on the top; and bake till brown in a moderate oven.28 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. “ Kulla-Kulla.” —Take half a cocoaiiiit, a breakfast cupful of butter, half a j^ouiid of moist sugar, three pounds of rice hour, three eggs, and a little salt. Extract half a break- fast cup of cocoanut milk ; whisk the eggs—yolks separate from the whites ; mix the eggs, hour, and salt with halt the butter, adding cocoanut milk just sufficient to make the mass into dough. Now shape the dough into portions the size of small gingernuts, placing them gently On a well houred board, the compound being starchy and glutinous. Bruig to a boil the remainder of the butter, and fry several of the kulla-kullas at a time, till of a light brown ; on removing, dust on some white sugar, and so on till all are done. “ Komalunga.”—Take a pound of sugar, and boil it to a tliick syru]). Grate a pound of pumjhvin, or vegetable marrow. Mix l)oth together, and simmer over a gentle hre till the moisture disappears and the “ confection ” begins to show the sugar; pour in a few dro})s of any havouring essence and lemon juice to taste; set out in hat dishes, previously buttered. If done well, it will be of the consistency of good Turkish Jleliglit, and not stick to tlie knife when being cut.•29 SWl^JETS. Cocoanut Tablots.—Extract the milk from two cocoa- nuts, and l)oil it to a syrup with two pounds of moist sugar. Scrape two more cocoanuts, which add to the syrup; also a pound of “ kussa-kussa,” or poppy-seed. Keep on a slow tire, till you find the mixture harden on being dropped in water. Butter a shallow tin, pour into it, and, before it cools, divide it off into squares with a knife. “Ulva” or “Hfflwa.” —Take a pound of “ soojee,” or semolina, and, with a little water, work it well, and set it by for the night. In the morning pour a little warm water on the mass, mash thoroughly with a strong wooden spoon, strain through a coarse cloth, and let the milk-like liquid thus extracted stand for half the day. Kow, with a spoon, carefully remove any clear water you may find standing.-on the surface of the extract. Have ready a teacupful of almond paste (make it yourself), two pounds of sugar, one pound of “ ghee ” or butter, and a phial of strong rose water (not “utthur” of roses). Melt the butter in a stewpan, pour in the “ soojee ” or semolina extract, keep it on a gentle fire, and stir constantly for five minutes. Now add the sugar, and continue boiling and stirring for another five minutes, when put in the almond paste, and go on boiling till the mass becomes translucent, assaying frequently, until you find that a small portion of the mixture, cooled on a plate, does not adhere to the knife when cut, this being a sign that it is done. When about half cooked, add the rose water to taste. (Some people prefer a few drops of rose essence, obtainable at the chemist.) Pour into small saucers, well buttered, and, when cool, wrap in tissue paper, ]<eeping iu a dry place.80 A NGLO-INDIA N COOKER F. Dola-Dola.”' Make a thick syrup of a pound of sugar, and mix it with a pound of Bengal rice i)Owder. Give it a gentle boil, after which add half a pound of sliced almonds, the milk of two cocoanuts, and a pint of melted butter. Boil all together till drops of the mixture harden in watei’, when pour into fiat dishes. Mango Fool.- The green fruit, I beheve, is procurable at Whiteley’s. Peel, stone, and shred a dozen green mano’oes. Boil in water sufficient to cover, till the fruit is C[uite soft. Mash with a wooden spoon, and pass through a coarse sieve (the wires of which should be silvered). Sweeten to taste, and add any quantity of fresh milk, pouring it gradually and stirring briskly. Serve in custard glasses, topping each with grated nutmeg. Flummery of Rice Flour.— To a teacupful of the flour add nearly a quart of fresh milk, sugar to taste, and a little lemo i peel. Mix all smoothly together, avoiding lumps ; boil until it thickens, when pour it into a blanc- mange or jelly mould, and turn out when quite cold, pouring over it some thick cream or sweet custard.FRESH SUMBALOOS” OR CHUTNIES. FllESH “ SUMBALOOS ” oil CHUTNIES. These are made for any meal, where there is curry and rice. To obtain most of them to perfection, the grindstone and roller of the Indian menage are sine qua non. det them from a stone-mason, made according to your directions, taking care the stone is not of a friable or doury con- sistency. Necessity has no law, and you will find, with a little lU’actice, that you or your cook will be able to handle the “curry stone” as deftly as the “ ThiiQuikurchi,” or cook boy you haye left behind you. I often sigh for either, or both. Howeyer, we can’t get eyerything in this world, can we ? The curry-stone once established, and its use mastered, you will find it inyaluable in the practical work- ing out of almost eyery recipe giyen in this little book. Putcha “ Poolsoo,” or Brinjal “ Sumbaloo.”—Take two medium sized brinjals, or egg yegetables, roast them in hot ashes, skin and seed them. In a little “ ghee ” or butter fry a teaspoonful each of cummin and mustard seed, and half a garlic, reducing all three to a paste. In half a teacu[>ful of tkicJc tamarind water mix two red chillies, finely chopped; add the Brinjal pulp and the paste. Mix well together, and serye with the curry and rice.32 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. Tomato or Love Apple “Siimbalco.”—Plunge two large tomatoes into Lolling water. Take them out, peel them, and mash with a little salt. Slice thin two green chillies or capsicums, one onion, and chop up a little lemon peel. Mix all well together, squeeze in the juice of a lemon or add a tablespoonfnl of vinegar, and serve with cnrry and rice. Shrimp Sumbaloo.”—Pull two dozen shrimps (more or less, according to size, if prawns), head, tail, and shell them; cut up into three or four, and mix with a little salt; add an onion finely chopped up, two green chillies similarly treated, a teacupjful of cocoanut milk, a tahlespoonfnl of lemon juice. Mix well together, and serve with any hut meat curry, and rice. Mango “ Sumbaloo.”—Mince up a half ripe mango very finely, one onion, and two green chillies or capsicums; add a little salt, half a leaspoonful of moist sugar, half a wine- glassful of tamarind water, vinegar, or lemon juice, and a teacupfnl of thick cocoanut milk. Mix all t<igether, and serve with cnriw and rice. Mint Chutney .—Take half-a-dozen sprigs of fresli mint, half an onion, half a ga.rlic, twm green or dry chillies or capsicums, an eggspoonful of salt, and a wineglassfnl of thick tamarind water. Grrind all to a paste, and serve with curry and rice. Cocoanut Chutney. — This is an universal favourite throughout India, and, if made well, is delicious. Take half a small sized cocoanut, ras]-> or ]>are off the inner33 FBE8H '' 8UMBAL00S” OB CHUTNIE8. rind, and soak in boiling water; then crush it on the curry stone; add a teaspoonful (more or less according to palate) of cayenne pepper, salt, half a small onion, a few cloves of garlic, and the squeeze of a lemon. Grind all together to a paste, and serve with curry and rice. “Dhall,” or Split Lentils Chutney.—Having sifted a small cup of the grain free of imj)urities, dry it in a pan over a little fire, and then pound it in a mortar to a powder, or flour; convert it to a dough by mixing it with a little weak tamarind water; add salt, a little cayenne pepper, and half a garhc. Grind all together, and serve with curry and rice, or Mulligatawny soup. Tomato Chutney.—Plunge four ripe tomatoes into boiling water; keep them there till soft. Then remove the skin and seeds. To the pulp thus left add a teaspoonful of vinegir or lemon juice, an eggspoonful of sugar, ditto of salt, two chillies or capsicums, and half an onion finely minced. Mix well, and serve with curry and rice. I)84 . 1 NO L().INDIAN COOKER Y. BOTTLED CIIUTNIES. You can procure these ready-made in many varieties, but unless coming from friends, or European houses of Imsiness such as Spencers, or Oakes of Madras, and others in Bombay and Calcutta, they are rarely to be relied on. Our Aryan brothers are under the influence of the spirit of the age, equally with the dishonest English tradesman, and the tendency to adulterate is as strong out there as it is here. Griven, then, that the ingredients are procurable, and an Oriental “ connection ” is wanting, the subjoined recipes will, I hope, prove useful. Tomato Chutney.—Select a dozen flne ripe tomatoes, scald them in boiling water, take olf the skin, and seed them. Set aside the pulp, and scjiieeze all the debris through a coarse cloth. Now boil the pulp in the juice till thick, when add a tablespoonful of salt, ditto of moist sugar, and the following, finely chopped :—one garlic, six green or red chillies or capsicums, two medium-sized green ginger roots. Continue boiling till the mass becomes quite stiff, using a slow fire, and stirring assiduously with a wooden spoon. Now take another utensil; in it melt a teacupful of “ ghee ” or butter, and fry a sliced onion ; when well fried, add the contents of the other pan, and goBOTTLED CHUTNIE8. 35 on simmering and stirring occasionally. As soon as the grease rises to the surface, you will know it is done. Cool and fill into chutney bottles or jars. Some add vinegar or lemon juice. Sweet Lime, or Lucknow Chutney—Take one dozen limes, or in their stead half a dozen fresh lemons ; cut up the fruit into small pieces; mix with half a pound of salt, and place in the sun for half a day. Take a quarter pound of green ginger and a quarter pound of garlic, half a pound each of stoned plums, currants, almonds, and dry dates. Chop all rather fine, and mix with one pound of chillie powder. In a quart of vinegar boil the hmes or lemons, and when the fruit turns brown add all the other ingredients, bottling when cold. Dry Fruit Chutney.—Take a quarter pound of garlic, half a pound each of currants, dried apricots, dates, dried chillies, moist sugar, and dry ginger; one pound each stoned raisins, almonds, and figs, one tablespoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of powdered allspice. Place all in a soup tureen, or other large vessel (crockery), pour on vinegar sufficient to moisten the whole mass; allow it to soak for a whole day, after which grind to a paste, and put away in bottles or jars. Sweet Bengal Chutney. — Take the following in- gredients : quarter pound each of raisins, currants, chillier, and garlic, half a pound of almonds and dates, two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a root of ginger, one dessertspoonful of salt. Gi-ind all to a smooth paste, mixA NGLO-INDIA N COOKER Y. 36 in a bottle of vinegar, and put away in chutney bottles or jars. Kashmsr© Chutney.—G-rind to a paste the following:— quarter pound each of mustard seed, stoned raisins, chillies, and salt; half a pound each of green ginger and garlic. Dissolve one pound of moist sugar in two quarts of vinegar; mix with the paste; bottle and use after having been kept in the sun for three weeks.37 PICKLES. PICKLES. Indian Onion Pickle.—Take two pounds of small white onions (the size of cherries), strip off the outer skins, and '])ut into a wide-mouthed jar with two tablespoonfuls of salt; place in the sun for a week, daily removing any water that may be secreted. Now add an ounce of sliced green ginger, two whole garlics, two table spoonfuls of moist sugar, and fill up with vinegar. Again place out in the sun, when you will find the onions to eat short and crisp, and be far preferable to the English-made article. Lime or Lemon Pickle.—Take two dozen limes or one dozen lemons; cut in four, but not quite through; intro- duce salt into the cuts, place on a flat dish, and set out in the sun for ten days. In an enamelled pan mix a table- spoonful of mustard seed, ditto of cummin seed, a quart of salad oil, and a quart of vinegar. Then throw in the fruit, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and chillie powder to taste. Stir and boil till the fruit is tender, and bottle when cool. Mango Pickle in Oil.—Take a dozen green mangoes, free of “ string ” and turpentine. Peel, stone, and cut in four. Place on a flat dish, plentifully sprinkle with salt.ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 38 and set in the sun for ten days. (Note :—Wipe your knife after each cut, otherwise the fruit will turn black.) Then bruise a tablespooiiful of cummin and mustard seed mixed. Pour a quart of salad oil into an enamel saucepan, add the seed, and give it a boil. Now add an eggspoonful of chillie jjowder; then pour in a quart and a half of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of sugar; take the pan off the fire, and throw in the mangoes. Let it stand till cool, when bottle. The older this pickle is the better.MISOhJLLANEOUS. 89 Chief Requirements for Indian Ccokery. Implements, &C.-The grindstone and roller; a mincing and sausage machine ; a cocoanut scraper (any working ironmonger can make it under your directions) ; several wooden spoons of sizes; an “ iyappah,” or basket work lid to your “ rice pot,” for drawing the “ cunjee ” water (to be made to order by a basket weaver) ; a kitchen clock; a slate, suspended at a convenient height by the clock, with a slate pencil secured with twine, to chalk up the “ times ” necessary for the different processes ; a mill. Ingredients, &C.—Curry powder; curry paste; tamarind in any form but unsweetened; cocoanuts; dry chillies; green chillies or capsicums ; “ ghee,” butter, lard, or dripping; limes or lemons ; rice of sorts ; green ginger; dry ginger; a well-filled spice box ; “ dhall” or split lentils ; saffron; mustard, coriander, and cummin seeds; onions; garlic. Attributes.—Patience and a sunny temper, both on the part of yourself and cook. Ho "AT to Make Madras Curry Paste.—Take one pound coriander seed, quarter pound saffron, quarter pound dry40 ANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. chillies, half a pound black pepper, quarter pound mustard seed, two ounces dry ginger, two ounces “ vendium,” two ounces garlic, half pound salt, half pound sugar, two ounces cummin seed, half a pound dried pea flour, half a j>ound cardamon and cinnamon mixed. Clean, dry, pound, and sift the whole; place in a large pan, and while over a slow fire mix in as much salad oil and vinegar by alternate wineglassesful as wall convert the mixture to a stiffish paste, when bottle and cork well. This paste is used chiefly for mulligatawny soup, but it makes delicious curries as well. How to Make Madras Curry Powder.—Take three pounds coriander seed, three-quarter pound saffron, three- quarter pound dry chillies, three-quarter pound pepper, three-quarter pound mustard seed, six ounces dry ginger, four ounces “ vendium,” three-quarter pound salt, three- quarter pound sugar, six ounces cummin seed, quarter T ound poppy seed, quarter pound mixed spices, one pound dried pea flour. Clean, dry, pound, and sift the whole, and keep in well-corked bottles. How to Make Bombay Curry Powder—Take three ])Ounds coriander seed, half a pound cummin seed, one and half pound turmeric, four ounces fenugreek, half a ])Ound mustard seed, one pound pepper, one and quarter pound dry chillies. Clean, dry, pound, and sift the wliole, and keep in well-corked botdes. ^ How to Make Bengal Curry Powder.—Take three I)ounds coriander seed, three and half pounds turmeric, twelve ounces fenugreek, three pounds dry ginger, three j)Ounds black pe])])er, two ])ounds dry chillies, one ])OundMISCELLANEOUS. 41 ciiiiiciiiioii, ouG pound cardauion. Clean, diy, pound, and sift the whole, and keep in well-corked bottles. How to Make “ Ghee.”—Use a large pan. Take any quantity of butter (so long as it does not more than half fill the pan), place on a slow fire and boil. When it threatens to bubble over, sprinkle with cold water. After several boils, throw in a handful of bay or mint leaves; give one more boil, allow to cool, and, before it congeals, pour it into wide-mouthed bottles or jars, cork down, and keep dry. How to Make Tamarind Water.—Take, say, a teacupful of the dry or preserved fruit, put it into a bowl, and pour over it a large breakfast cupful of boiling water ; break up the tamarind with a wooden spoon, and allow it to soak for five minutes. Now with your fingers mash the fruit well, pass the mixture through a coarse cloth, and use the juice. This quantity is about enough for a family curry or mulligatawny. If you have the preserved tamarind, to avoid over sweetness wash away the syrup, and scrape the fruit a little before immersing it in the hot water. How to Extraot the Milk from a Coooannt.—Break the nut. —shell and all—into halves, and, with your scraper, serape out the contents, stopping just short of the rind. Place the scrajDings into a bowl, and pour on boiling watei' sufficient to cover the mass. After letting it stand for five minutes, work it well with your fingers, and, when the water assumes the appearance and consistency of rich milk, take up “ fistfuls ” of the scrapings, squeeze well, ami l)ut aside; then strain the milk through a coarse clotli. If EANGLO-INDIAN COOKERY. 42 you want it to be very rich let it stand for a couple of hours, when you will find the pure cocoanut milk at the top and the water beneath. Some mabe a second “ brew,” ]30uring more water over the recovered husk, but there is no strength in it, at least none to be appreciated. How to Make Madras “Apums” or Hoppers—I have never tried these in this country ; an important ingredient, viz., fresh cocoanut “ toddy, ’ being an impossibility. However, yeast, they say, is a good substitute, so with it the attempt may be made. Take, then, a pound of any rice, four cocoanuts, an ounce of white salt, and a teacupful of yeast, which, I presume, is stronger in its action than “ toddy.” Eediice the rice, half to very fine and the other half to coarse flour ; put this last in a pan, pour two teacups of hot water, and set aside for ten minutes ; then stir in the fine rice flour, half the yeast, and the salt; sprinkle a little wheaten flour on the top. Having done all this in the evening, cover the pan containing the mixtui’e and set by for the night. Early in the morning milk the four cocoanuts, stir into the mixture, and j)our half a teacupftil at a time on a flat ]>an containing a little butter, and standing on a clear but low fire ; cover the pan with another one containing hot embers, and let cook for three minutes. The alx)ve quantities should make a dozen cakes. How to Make Madras “Apums” or Hoppers. (Another Way ,)—These cakes make such delicious eating, especially tor “chota hazri,” or early breakfast, that I am induced to give another recipe, which, however, is not mine. “Wash ami clean a pound of rice very nicely, and lay it ujjon a48 MISCELLANEO US. cloth in the smi; when qnite diy pound it to a fine hour ; then put it in a pan and mix it to a paste with sweet ‘ toddy ’ or yeast, letting it remain for at least twelve hours, or all the night. Next morning take two cocoanuts, scrajje the ins des, and squeeze the juice into the rice paste, mixing well; then place an iron or earthen pan on a rather slow fire, rub the inside of the pan with “ ghee ” or butter, and put as much as you please of the mixture in it; cover it over with a similar pan, and place some embers on the top. In a sliort while it will be baked, which can only be known by lifting the toj); if not done enough let it remain a little longer, but do not turn it. To make the variety called Egg Hoppers, the yolks of three eggs and a tablespoonful of moist sugar, mixed with the “ toddy,” or yeast, is added to the rice flour. This makes the cakes yellow and sweet. The addition of a few cake sc'eds sprinkled over each, as it cooks, is an improvement. How to Make “ Clmpaties.”—Mix flour (wheaten) and water with a little salt into a stilf dough, kneading it well. Butter or “ ghee ” may be added to taste. Milk, too, may bo substituted for water. Boll the dough very thin, or flatten it out with the hands, and smear on Loth sides with “ ghee ” or butter, and bake in a flat pan on a moderate fire. These cakes form an agreeable change from rice with cuiry.1805. A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS RELATING TO §0a:tra0, Crirkt, farming, (Sarbcnmg, lunting, USEFUL FOR COUNTRT GENTLEMEN, TRAVELLERS, ETC., PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX, rr H e: “E'ieilo” office:, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C Orders for any of the folloioing works, luith 'postage stamps or post-ofice order {payable at the Money Order Office, Chancery-lane, W.C.) for the amount, should be sent to Horace Cox, Publisher, at the above address, or they may be obtained, by order of any bookseller. AGENTS. IN AUSTRALIA;—Qeorge Robertson A Co., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,and Brisbane; W. C. Rigby, 74, King William-street, Adelaide, South Australia. IN INDIA:—Thacker & Co., Limited, Bombay; Thacker, Spink, <te Co., Calcutta; A. J. Combridge .fc Co., Bombay. IN CANADA: — Qrafton & Sons, Montreal. IN AMERICA:—Brentano’s, Union Square, New York; Forest and Stream. 318, Broadway, N.Y. IN CAPE TOWN ;—J. C. JUTA & Co., Port Elizabeth and Johannesburg.JSrOTZOE. rjlHE attention of Country Gentlemen, Travellers, Sportsmen, Farmers, and others is called to the works quoted in this Catalogue. Each volume is written by an author who is well known and an acknowledged authority on the respective subject. The illustrations have been intrusted to competent artists, and neither pains nor expense have b^en spared to make the works as complete as possible. HORACE COX, 1‘itblMter.A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS PUBUSHED BY HORACE COX. Second Edition, Greatly Enlarged. Royal 4fo., bevelled boards, gilt edges, price 15s., by post 15s. 9d. THEIR Natural History and Practical Manacement. BY W. B. TEGETMEIEE, F.Z.S., {Memher of the British Ornithologists’ Union.) Author op -‘Thk Natural History of the Cranes,” &o., &c. Illustrated with numerous full-page engravings drawn from Life by T. W. WOOD. DAY’S BEITISH AND lEISH FISHES. In two volumes, imperial 8vo., cloth, price Two Guineas, by post £2 3s. 6d. THE FISHES OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. By FRANCIS DAY, F.L.S., F.Z.S., &c. The Standard Work for Zoological Students, Fishculturists, Fisher- men, and the public ; the value of this grand work is much increased by nearly Two Hundred Plates and Woodcuts. Mr. Day has personally delineated every species from nature, and incorporated many discoveries of recent times. WINDSOR HOUSK, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. a 2A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS 4 WINDSOR HOUSE, BBEAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. DAY’S SALMONIDJl. In one volume, imperial 8vo., cloth, price One Guinea, by post 21s. 6d. With Twelve Coloured Plates and many Woodcuts. KBD miSH J^ALMONID.®. By FRANCIS DAY, C.I.E., F.L.S., and F.Z.S. This work is an exhaustive treatise on the Salnionidse of the British Islands, and will be interesting to the fisherman, as well as a text-book to the scientific icthyologist. The reduced price will place it within the reach of all. A few Copies to be had, beautifully bound in Whole Calf Full Gilt, price 35s. Third Edition in the Press, super-royal 8vo., price £2 2s., by post £2 3s. YACHT ARCHITECTURE. By DIXON KEMB, .Associate of the Institute of NaraJ Architects and Member of the Council. This work enters into the whole subject of the laws which govern the resistance of bodies moving in water, and the influence a wave form of body and wave lines have upon such resistance. It also deals comprehensively with the subject of STEAM PROPULSION as applied to yachts. An easy SYSTEM for DESIGNING is provided, and every necessary calculation is explained in detail. The latter part of the work is devoted to YACHT BUILDING, and engravings are given of every detail of construction and fitting, including laying off, taking bevels, &c. The List of Plates (exclusively of over thirty devoted to the elucidation of the text, and nearly two hundred woodcuts) exceeds fifty, and comprise the LINES of some of the most CELEBRATED YACHTS AFLOAT by the most successful builders and designers.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 5 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. EIGHTH EDITION IN THE PRESS, A MANUAL YACHT AND BOAT SAILING BY DIXON KEMD, A.I.N.A., Associate Institute Naval Architects (Member of the Council). Authorof “ Yacht Designing” and “Yacht Architecture.” (Ihe Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty have ordered this work to be supplied to the Libraries of the ships of the Royal Navy.) Price 5s., by post 5s. 4d. THE YACHT RACING CALENDAR AND REVIEW for 1894. BY DIXZOI^ KEHyCE’, Author of “ Yacht and Boat Sailing,” <^-c. CONTENTS: Regattas and Matches. Abstract of Matches Sailed IN 1894. General Review. Yacht Racing. Cruising. Launches and Trial Trips. Obituary. Index. Croicn 8i'o., Illustrated with Maps and Plates, price Is. 6d. REVISED EDITION. DOWK CHAKNKU. By R. T. McMullen. With Introduction by DIXON KEMP, A.I.N.A. CONTENTS. The First Mishap. The “Leo’s” First Cruise, 1850. The “Leo’s” Last Cruise, 1857. To Scilly in the “Orion,’’ 1868 To Scilly and Ireland in the “ Sirius,” 1861. Round Great Britain in the “ Sirius,” 1861. Voyage of the “ Orion” to Bantry, 1869. Visit to the Bull Rock. From the Thames to the Forth, Ac., 1871. From the Clyde to the Thames, &c., 1871. From the Thames to the West Coast of Scotland. 1875. How I came to Sail Alone in a 19-ton Yacht, 1877. From the Thames to the Wolf Rock with an Amateur Crew, 1882. Experimental Cruise.A CATALOGUE OF BOOEfS 6 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS. LONDON, E.C. 8vo., pp. 463, with 32 illustrations, price 10.«. 6d., by post 11s. ESSAYS ON SPORT AND NATURAL HISTORY. By J. E. H ARTI N G. CONTENTS. Shooting — Hawking — Fishing — Training Hawks — Lark Mirrors — Plover Catching—Fishing with Cormorants—Decoys—The Irish Wolfhound—The Badger —Wild Turkeys—The Great Busta'd—Seals—Wild Swans, Ac. Thirty-eight Essays: concluding with Practical Hints on Bird Preserving for the use of Travellers and Collectors. ILLUSTRATED WITH FULL-PAGE ENGRAVINGS DRAWN PRINGIPALLY FROM * LIFE BY HARRISON WEIR. In Imperial Mo., bevelled boards, gilt edges, price 18.s., by post 18.s. THE CATTLE OF GREAT BRITAIN: BKING A SERIES OF ARTICLES ON THE VARIOUS BREEDS OF CATTLE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, THEIR HISTORY, MANAGEMENT, &c. Edited by the late JOHN COLEMAN, Editor of the Farm Department of " The Field,” and formerly Professor of Agriculture at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. ILLUSTRATED WITH FULL-PAGE ENGRAVINGS DRAWN PRINGIPALLY FROM LIFE BY HARRISON WEIR. In Imperial ito., bevelled boards, gilt edges, price 18*'., by post 18.'<. 9tL THE SHEEP AND PIGS OF GREAT BRITAIN; BEING A SERIES OF ARTICLES ON THE VARIOUS BREEDS OF SHEEP AND PIGS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, • THEIR HISTORY, MANAGEMENT, &c. Edited by the late JOHN COLEMAN, Editor of the Farm Department of “ The Field," and foi-merly Professor of Agriculture at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSF,, BRKAM.S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C NEW AND CHEAPER EDITION OF THE CATTLE, SHEEP, AND PICS OF CHEAT BRITAIN. ^Yilh IHiisIrations from the Original Drawingx by Ilarrifon Weir, in 1 voL, price Pi.'!. M., by post The Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs of Great Britain: Being a Serie.s of Articles on the Various Breeds of the United Kingdom, their History, Management, &c. Edited by the late JOHN COLEMAN, Editor of the Farm Department of “The Field.” and formerly Professor of Agrioullere at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. THE I. II. III. IV. V. VI VII. VIII. IX. X XI XII XIII XIV, XV. XVI, XVII XVIIl XIX XX XXI. CO N TE N TS III.- CATTLE OF CHEAT BRITAIN. —Introductory. ,—Breeding and General Manage- ment. —Principles of Feeding, and Value of Different Kinds of Food. Buildings, and the Manage- ment of Manure. ,—Dairy Management, the Milk Trade, &c. —Shorthorns. By John Thornton. —The Hereford Breed of Cattle. By T. Duckham. —Devon Breed of Cattle. By Lieut.-Col. .1. T. Davy. ,—The Longhorns. By Gilbert Murray. .—The Sussex Breed of Cattle. By A. Heasman. .—Norfolk and Suffolk Red-Polled Cattle. By Thomas Fulcher. .—Galloway Cattle. By Gilbert Murray. .—The Angus-Aberdeen Cattle. .—The Ayrshire Breed of Cattle. By Gilbert Murray. ,—West Highland Cattle. By .lohn Robert'on. .—The Glamorgan Breed of Cattle. By Morgan Evans. .—Pembrokeshire or Castlemartin Cattle. By Morgan Evans. .—The Anglesea Cattle. By Mor- gan Evans. .—The Kerry Breed of Cattle. By the late R. 0. Pringle. .—The Jersey Breed of Cattle. By John M. Hall. .—The Guernsey Breed of Cattle. By “ A Native.” THE SHEEP DF CHEAT BRITAIN. I.—Introductory. II.—The Management of Ewes up to Lambing. IV.—: V.- VI.- VII.- VIII.- IX.- X.- XI.- XII.- XIII. - XIV. - XV. XVI.- XVII.- XVIII.- XIX.- XX.- XXI. - XXII. - XXTIL- XXIV.- XXV.— THE I.- II.- III. - IV. - V.- VI.- VII.- VIII.- ■Preparations for and xYttention during Lambing. ■Management from Birth t'< Weaning. From Weaning to Market. On Wool. -Leicester Sheep. ■Border Leicesici's. By John Usher. ■Cotswold Sheep. Long-Woolled Lincoln Sheep. ■The Devon Long-Wools. By Joseph Darby. -Romney Marsh Sheep. -Southdown Sheep. -The Hampshire or West Country Down Sheen. iiy E. P. Squarey. -Shropshire Sheep. -Oxfordshire Down Sheep. By Messrs. A. F. M. Druce and C. Hobbs. -The Roscommon Sheep. By the late R. 0. Pringle. -Negrette Merino Sheep. -Exmoor Sheep. -The Black-faci d or Scotcii Mountain Sheep. -Cheviot Sheep. By .1 ohn Uslier. -Dorset Horned Sheep. By Joseph Darby. -Welsh Mountain Sheej). B> Morgan Evans. ■The Radnor Sheep. By Morgan Evans. Herdwick Sheep. By H. A Spedding. PICS OF CHEAT BRITAIN. ■Introductory. ■The Berkshire Pig. ■Black Suffolk Pigs. ■Large White Breed of Pig.s. ■Small White Pigs. ■Middle Bred White Pigs. ■The Black Dorset Pig. -The Tamworth Pig.8 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. In crown 8vo., price 5s., by post 5s. 4d. BO-A.T-K.JAOIIsra-; OR, THE ARTS OF ROWING AND TRAINING. BY EDWIN DAMPIER BRICKWOOD (EX-AiUTKUR CHAMPION OF THE THAMES). Published Annually. Price Is., by post Is. id. rHE ROWING ALMANACK AND OARSMAN’S COMPANION FOR 1895. Edited by E. D. BRICKWOOD (EX-AMATEUR CHAMPION OF THE THAMES), Author of “ Boat-Eacing; or, the Arts of Sowing and Training.” CONT Preface. Calendar, and High Water Tables at London Bridge. Notes for the Year: Law and University Terms. High Water Table. Thames Conservancy Table. Eeview of the Season 1894. Eecord of Eaces. Index to Eecord of Eaces. Amateur Sowing Association. The Laws of Boat Eacing. Eules for Eegattas. ENTS. Henley-on-Thames Eegatta. Length of Eacing Courses. The Sowing Directory. Tradesmen's Clubs. Sea Coast Clubs. Distance Clubs. Distance on the River Thames. Headway of Bridges on the Thames. Oxford to London. Trip on the Arun and Eother. Eule of the Road on the River. Tables of Winners of all the principal Eaces and Eegattas. SECOND EDITION. Price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 8d., in limp cloth. RABBITS FOR PROFIT AND RABBITS FOR POWDER. A Treatise upon the New Industry of Hutch Rabbit Farming in the Open, and upon Warrens specially intended for Sporting Purposes; with Hints as to their Construction, Cost, and Maintenance. BY M. J, LLOYJ) lUlICE,PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 9 Published Annually. Price 5s., by post 5s. 4d. THE GOLFING ANNUAL Edited by D. S. DUNCAN. The attention of golfers is called to this work, which differs from kindred publications in many respects. It contains Original Articles, not merely Keprints ; and its Club Directory is the only Complete and Accurate List of Golf Clubs and Descriptions of Golf Greens ever published. Price Is. Golf Greens of England and Wales. A MAP SHOWING AT A GLANCE THEIR POSITIONS AND NEAREST RAILWAY STATIONS. THIS WORK CONTAINS ABOVE 700 PAGES, AND NEARLY 400 ILLUSTRATIONS. Second Edition, with additions, price 15s., by post 15s. 9d., cloth gilt. Shifts and Expedients OF CAMP LIFE, TRAVEL, AND EXPLORATION. BY W. B. LORD, Royal Artillery, AND T. BAINES, F.R.G.S. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. bA CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 10 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Large post 8vo., price 3s. 6cZ., ly post 3s. 9d. PRACTICAL PHEASANT REARING; WITH AN APPENDIX ON GROUSE DRIVING. By .TOmsr BI^OYX) PRICK, Author of “Babbits for Profit and Rabbits for Powder,” &c. CONT CTiap. I.—The General History of the Pheasant — Treating of the Pheasant and its Egg. II.—The Barn Door Hens. III. —The Eggs and the Appliances necessary for Hatching. IV. —Hatching Out—The Incubator. V.—The Rearing Field — Protection from Vermin. VI.—Moving of the Coops and Treat- ment of the Young Birds. APPENDIX.-HINTS C Chap. I.—Practical Hints on Driving Grouse. II.—Practical Hints on Driving Grouse (continued). ENTS. Chap. VII.—Reeiijes for the Preparation of and Instructions for the proper Administration of the Food to Young Pheasants. VIII.—The Diseases of Young Pheasants and their Cure. IX.—Catchin g up, Moving into Coverts, and the proper Food for Older Birds. X.—Miscellaneous Remarks, and a few Words on Turkeys. GEOUSE DRIVING. Chap. III.—The Working of the Drive, and the Duties of the Drivers. In handy pocket size, price Is. 6d., hy post Is. 7d. THE GAMEKEEPER’S SHOOTING MEMORANDUM BOOK FOR TUB REGISTERING OF GAME SHOT, MEMORANDA OF SALE, Ac. By I. E. B. C., Editor of “ Facts and Useful Hints relating to Shooting and Fishing,” “ The Game- keeper’s and Game Preserver's Account Book and Diary,” Ac. Third Edition, Enlarged and Revised. Large post Svo., with Illustrations, price 5s. cloth, hy post 5s. 4(Z. THE COUNTRY HOUSE. A COLLECTION OF USEFUL INFORMATION AND RECIPES, Adapted to the Country Gentleman and his Household, and of the greatest utility to the Housekeeper generally. By I. E. B. C., Editor of ‘‘Facts and Useful Hints relating to Fishing and .Shooting,” and "The Gamekeeper’s and Game Preserver’s Account Book and Diary.”11 PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. In royal 8vo., with Maps, Photographs, and Drawings, price 21s. net. MAN-HUNTING IN THE DESERT. BEING A NARRATIVE OF THE PALMER SEARCH EXPEDITION, Conducted by Sir Charles Warden. Jiy CA.PT^Ilsr Hj^YISTHS, R.E. Demy 8vo., ivith numerous Illustrations, price 15s. HORNS AND HOOFS; OR, CHAPTERS ON HOOFED ANIMALS. By R LYDEKKER. Second Edition. Bound together in cloth, gilt edges, price Qd., hy post Id. THE RULES OF PIGEON SHOOTING. PUBLISHED BY SPECIAL PERMISSION, THE HURLINGHAIVI CLUB AND THE GUN CLUB RULES OF PIGEON SHOOTING. Large post 8vo., price Gd. A REMEDY FOR BAD TIMES a “FARMER.” In crotcn 8vo., price 3s. Gd., by post 3s. 3d. ANGLING REMINISCENCES. By the late FRANCIS FRANCIS. CONTENTS.—A Christmas Eetrospect; Luck; Loch Tay; The Angler's Wish; Spring Salmon Fishing; Grayling Fishing; Barbel Fishing; Cover Shooting Fly Fishing for Ladles; Saint Mayfly; My First Salmon; The Mayfly Mess; A Month in the West; Trout Fishing; In and Out Dales; Up and Down; Tom Bowers’s Christmas. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. b 2A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS XlJ AVINBSOIt HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS. LONDON, E.G. T9 Demy 8vo., 'price 2s., by post 2s. 2d. THE SPORTSMAN’S VADE-MECUM FOH THE HIMALAYAS. CONTAINING ]SrOa^ES ON SXIOOT^IN^G, LIE’E, &c. FULLY ILLUSTRATED. By IC. G. J-. Third Edition, demy 8ro., handsomely bound, 240 pages, 9 portraits,, with many vignettes, price 5s., by post 5s. 4d. A HISTOEY AND DESCRIPTION, WITH REYEINISCENCES, OF THE FOX TERRIER. BY DT B. LIE E, Kennel Editor of “ The Field.” THE ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARTHUR WARDLE. A FEW COPIES ON LAKGE PAPER. Price 10s. 6d., by Post 11s. Demy 8vo., printed on plate paper, with Illustrations by Arthur Wardle, price 3s. 6f7., by f>ost 3s. lliZ. A HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION OF THE COLLIE OR SHEEP DOG, IN HIS HIUTtSH YAIHETIES. BY RAWDON B. LEE, Kennel Editor of “The Field,” and Author of “The Fox Terrier. A FEW COPIES ON LARGE PAPER. Price 10s. 6d., by post 11s.13 PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON. E.C. Demy 8vo., in Two Volumes, price 15s. each, hy post 15s. Qd. each. THE MODERN SPORTSMAN’S GPN AND RIFLE, INCLUDING Came and Wildfowl Guns, Sportinc and Match Rifles AND Revolvers. IN TWO VOLUMES. Vol. I.—Game and Wildfowl Guns. Vol. II.—The Rifle and Revolver. By the late J. H. WALSH, “ SioNEHENaE,” Editor of “The Field," Author of “Dogs of the British Islands,” “The Greyhound,” “British Rural Sports,” Ac. Demy 4(o., with 12 full-page IUmtrations, some of which contain Portraits of Sporting Celebrities, and 24 vigixettes, price 10s. Cd., by post 11s. SPORTING SKETCHES WITH PEN AND PENCIL. BY THE LATE FRANCIS FRANCIS and A. W. COOPER.14 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM S BUILDINGS. LONDON. E.C. In crown 8vo., with Thirteen full-page Plates, price 2s. 6d., hy post 2s. 9d. The Swimming Instructor: A TREATISE ON THE ARTS OF SWIMMING AND DIYING. By WILLIAM WILSON. Author of “Swimming, Diving, and How to Save Life,” “The Bather’s Manual," Hints on Swimming.” Demy 8ro., xeith Illustrations by Arthur Wardle, price lbs., by post 15s. Gd. A HISTOEY AND DESCEIPTION OF THE MODERN DOGS OF Bi’itain anb Htlanb. BY RAWDON B. LEE. Kennel Editor of “ The Field,” Author of the “Histories of the Fox Terrier,” “Collies,” &c. SPORTING DIVISION. Price 10s. 6d., hy the same Author, THE N0N = 5P0RTINQ DIVISION OF THE iodern Dogs of Great Britain & Ireland. Illustrated in Collotype, from Drawings by Arthur Wardle. Price 10s. Gd., by the same Author, The TERRIERS of GREAT BRITAIN & IRELAND. Illustrated in Collotype, from Drawings by Arthur Wardle. The Volumes are well printed, the Illustrations are full page on plate paper, and the binding and general arrangement are of the highest quality.PUBLISHED BY HOKA.CE COX. 15 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM's BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Published Annually. In large post 8vo. THE KENNEL CLUB STUD BOOK: CONTAININS A COMPLETE RECORD OF DOG SHOWS AND FIELD TRIALS, With Pedigrees of Sporting and Non-Sporting Dogs. Vol. 1., from 1859 to 1873, price 12s. 6d. by post 13s. Price 10s. 6d., by Post 10s. lOd. each— Vol. V., 1877: Vol. VI., 1878: Vol. VII., 1879; Vol. VIII., 1880; Vol. IX., 1881 ; Vol. XL, 1883 ; Vol XII., 1884 ; Vol. XIII., 1885 ; Vol. XV., 1887 ; Vol. XVI., 1888 ; Vol. XVII., 1889; Vol. XVIII., 1890; Vol. XIX., 1891 ; Vol. XX., 1892 ; Vol. XXI., 1893. Now read]!, price os., Vol. 77. '^PHE COUESING CALENDAR, for the Winter Season *- 1894-9-5, contaming Returns of the Principal Public Courses run in Great Britain and Ireland: a revised List of Addresses of Cour.sing Secretaries. Judges, Slippers, and Trainers ; Winners of the Waterloo Cup, Kempton Park Champion Stakes, and Gosforth I’erk Gold Cup; Greyhound Sales, and Waterloo Cup Nominators for 189.5. Edited by B. C. EVELEGH (“ Allan-a-Dale "). Price os. PUBLISHED UNDER THE AUTHORITY" OF THE N.YTIONAL COURSING CLUB. THF GREYHOUND STUD BOOK. (Vol. xiir.) CompHecI by W. f. LAMONBY (Keeper of the "Stud Book”). CONTENTS. Index of -434(! Greyhounds registered, and Addresses of their Owners—Register of Litters under the Rule which came in force on Jan. 1 last—List of Sires and the Bitches that have whelped to them under the same Rule—Review of Last Season’s Coursing, by "Dromns,” interspersed with several portraits of leading coursers—Statistics of Winning Strains—Tabulated Pedigrees, and Index of Winning Greyhounds—Hevised Rules of Coursing—Sales of Greyhounds— Winners, Dividers, and Runners-up for all Stakes during the preceding season, and other important matter.16 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS Crown 8vo., price Is., hy post Is. Id. ; in cloth, Is. 6d., by post Is. M. THE IMPROVEMENT OF CRICKET GROUNDS ON ECONOMICAL PRINC/RLES. ByJ. A. GIBBS. Pocket size, price 6d., post free. THE LAWS OF GOLF, AS ADOPTED BY THE EOYAL AND ANCIENT GOLF CLUB OF ST. ANDEEWS. Special Rules for Medal Play. Etiquette of Golf. Winners of the Golfing Championship. Winners and Runners-up for the Amateur Championship. Published Annually. In post 8vo., price Is. 6d., by post Is. 8d. THE ANGLER’S DIARY AND TOURIST FISHERMAN’S GAZETTEER CONTAINS A Record of the Rivers and Lakes of the World, to which is added a List of Rivers of Great Britain, with their nearest Railway Stations. Also Forms for Registering the Fish taken during the year; as well as the Time of the Close Seasons and Angling Licences. By I. E. B. C., Editor of “ The Gamekeeper’s and Game Preserver’s Account Book and Diary," &c.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX 17 VOLUMES I. and II. (containing Parts I. to VI.), in crown 8vo., red cloth, price 6s., hy post 6s. 6d. each vol. THE HUNTING COUNTRIES OF ENGLAND, THEIR FACILITIES, CHARACTER, AND REQUIREMENTS. A GUIDE TO HUNTING MEN. By ‘‘BROOKSB Y.” CONTENTS. PART I.—Introduction—The Belvoir—The South Wold—The Brocklesby— The Burton and The Blankney—The Fitzwilliam—The Quorn—The Cottesmore— The Puckeridge—The Old Berkeley. PART II.—The North Warwickshire—The Pytchley—The Woodland Pytchley —The Atherstone—The Billesdon or South Quorn—The Meynell—The Bicester and Warden Hill Hunt—The Heythrop—The Old Berkshire—The South Oxfordshire— The South Nottinghamshire—The East Kent—The Tiekham—The Vine—The South Berkshire—Mr. Garth's—The H. H.—The Tedworth—Lord Ferrers’—The Warwickshire. PART III.—The Dulverton—The Stars of the West—Mr. Luttrell's—Lord Portsmouth’s—The Essex and the Essex Union—The Hertfordshire—The Whaddon Chase—The Vale of White Horse—The Cheshire and South Cheshire—The Black- moor Vale—The Cambridgeshire—The Duke of Grafton's—The Holderness—The Oakley—The North Herefordshire—The Duke of Buccleuch's—The Tynedale— Lord Percy’s—The Morpeth—The Eufford. ' -4Iso (VOLUME II.) PART IV.—The Badsworth—The Southdown—The East Essex—The Bram- ham Moor—The East Sussex—The Essex and Suffolk—The York and Ainsty—Lord Fltzwilliam's—The Crawley and Horsham—The West Kent—Sir Watkin Wynn’s —The Hursley—TheHambledon—Lord Coventry’s—The Grove—The West Norfolk —The Bedale—Lord Zetland’s—The Craven—The Surrey Union. PART V.—The Old Surrey—Mr. Richard Combe’s—The Burstow—The Hur- worth—The Cattistock—The Suffolk—The Shropshire—The Earl of Radnor’s—Capt Hon. F. Johnstone’s—The South Durham—The Worcestershire—The Ledbury The South Herefordshire—The South Staffordshire—The North Staffordshire Tho Duke of Beaufort’s—The Cotswold—The Dumfriesshire—The Albrighton The North Cotswold. PART VI.—Lord Middleton’s—The Sinnington—The Wheatland—The United Pack—The Chiddingfold—Lord Fitzhardinge’s—Hon. Mark Eolle’s—South-and- West Wilts—Lord Portman’s—The Cleveland—The North Durham Braes of Derwent—The Radnorshire and West Hereford—The Monmouthshire. Each Part is published separately, price 2s. 6d. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. C18 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Second Edition, demy 8vo., with Illustrations, price 2s. 6d. hy post 2s. Qd. POULTRY FOR THE TABLK AND MARKET VERSUS FANCY FOWLS, WITH AN EXPOSITION OF THE FALLACIES OF POULTRY FARMING. By W. B. TEGETMEIER, F.Z S. Price 6d., stiff covers. The Cottager’s iianual of Poultry Keeping. BRING CHAPTERS FROM THE SECOND EDITION OF W. 8. TEGETMEIER’S POULTRY FOR THE TABLE AND MARKET VERSUS FANCY FOWLS. This psmphlet consists of the practical chapters on Feeding Fowls, Hatching and Rearing Chickens for the Market, and the Production of Eggs. On Fattening. Trussing, and Showing Dead Poultr.v, and on Improving Ominary Stock, from the last edition of Mr. Tegetmeier's well-known work on Table and Market Poultry. New Edition in the Press, price Is., hy post Is. Id. THE SCIENCE AND ART OF TRAINING. A HANDBOOK FOE ATHLETES. By henry HOOLE, M.D. (Loud.), Medical Officer to tho Stock Exchauge Clerks’ Provident Fund. CONTENTS. Introduction. Chap. I.—The Preparation for Athlc ticism. Chap. II.—The Formation and Develop- ment of the Human Body. Chap. III.—Food. Chap. IV.—The Nutrition of the Body. Hunger and Thirst. Diet and Digestion. Chap. V.—The Muscular System. Chap. VI.—Exercise and Rest. Chap. VII.—Personal Hygiene. Appendix.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 19 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDTNOS, LONDON, E.C. Crown 8vo., price Is., hy post Is. 2d., in Coloured Wrap>p>er, and Page Illustrations drawn by Whymper. TiHir.8|]( fEARS' liEMIIIISCEiES OP W. .A.. CONTENTS. Seasons 1863 to 1888—A Hare Day—Remarks on the Outcome of Disease—Heather-Burning and Draining—Surface Draining—Dogs— Disease—Wildfowl—Conclusion—Summary. Demy 8vo., luith folding plates and full-page Illustrations printed on toned paper, price 10s. 6d., hy post 11s. MODERN WILDFOWLING. BY LEWIS CLEMENT, “ WiLDFOWLER.” Opinions of the Press. “An excellent work indeed, and full of capital illustrations, is ‘Modern Wildfowling; ’ to recommend it aright I should have, if I were clever enough, and it did not already exist, to invent the famous phrase, ‘ a book no gentleman’s library should be without.’ ’’—Truth, March 17,1881. “ This book deals not only with the various modes of approaching, or decoying, and killing wildfowl of all kinds, hut enters into minute details upon the construc- tion of punts, both single and double handed; sails; punt guns, muzzle-loading as well as breechloading; recoil apparatus; and shoulder guns of all patterns, with the varying loads required for different bores. In addition to this are several chapters devoted to a narration of the adventures of the author while in pursuit of wildfowl, both at home and abroad—which are very pleasant reading With the addition of a good index, sportsmen vEill have in this work a capital vacle nieci/m on the art of wildfowling.”—The Zodogist for November, 1880. Crown 8uo., price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 8d. HARE HUNTING. BY “ TANTARA.” (A MASTER OF HARRIERS.)A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. 2U Crown 8vo., price 5s., by post 5s. 4ed. ‘ THE AKOHER’S REGISTER. PUBLISHED ANNUALLY. EDITED BY P. T. FOLLETT, Archery Correspondent of “The Field.” Royal 8vo., price 10s. 6d., by post l]s. HORSE BREEDING RECOLLECTIONS. BY COUNT G. LEHNDORFF. Containing : Notes on the Breeding of Thoroughbreds—In-breeding and Out- crossing—Pedigrees of all the Principal Sires—and Genealogical Tables of Celebrated Thoroughbreds. Crown 8»o., profusely Ulustrated, price 2s. fid, by post, 2s. 9d. GIPSY TENTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. By G. R. LOWNDES. In post Svo., ivith Illustrations, price 3s. Gd., by post 3s. dd. THE PRACTICAL MANACEMENT OF FISHERIES, A BOOK FOR PROPRIETORS AND KEEPERS. By the late FEANCIS FRANCIS, Author of “Fish Culture,” “A Book on Angling," “Beiiorts on Salmon Ladders,” »fec. CONTENTS. Chap. I.—Fish and Fish Food. II,—How to Grow Fish Food and how to Make Fishes’ Homes. III. —On the Management of Weeds and the Economy of Fishing. IV. —The Enemies of Trout and how to Circumvent them. V.—The Artificial Incubation of Ova. Chap. VI.—On the Rearing of Fry and the Conduct of Ponds, Stews, (fee,. VII.—Some Hatcheries. VIII.—Coarse Fish. IX.—On Salmon and Trout Ladders and Passes. Appendix.—Notes, Ac.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 21 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAm’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Fcap. 8vo., cloth lettered, price 3s. Qd, LETTERS FROM A COUNTRY HOUSE. By THOMAS AHDEIITOH. Price '2d., by post 3d. RULES OF THE GAME OP HOCKEY AND OF THE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION. Crown 8vo., limp cloth, price Is. 6d., by post Is. 8d. HINTS. TO HORSEWOMEN. By Mrs. HARRY ALLBUTT (ANNIE BLOOD-SMYTH). CHAP. I.—Ladies’ Horses. II.—Side Saddles. III.—Hiding Habits. CONTENTS. CHAP. IV.^—Hiding Hats — Whips — Gloves—Spurs. V.—Biding. VI.—Bridles. Price !«., by post Is. \d. NOTES ON THE PROOF OF GUNS. TOGETHER WITH THE NEW RULES AND SCALES OF PROOF PASSED BY THE SECRETARY FOB WAR, AND COMMENTS THEREON. OFFICIAL EDITION OF THE LAWS OF LAWN TENNIS. Now ready, price 6d., by post 7d. n^HE LAWS of LAWN TENNIS; together with tlie RULES of the LAWN TENNIS ASSOCIATION. Issued under the authority of the LAWN TENNIS ASSOCIATION. OFFICIAL EDITION OF THE REGULATIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF LAWN TENNIS PRIZE MEETINGS. Now ready, price 6d., by post 7d. ■REGULATIONS for the MANAGEMENT of LAWN TENNIS PRIZE MEETINGS and INTER-COUNTY nnd INTER-CLUB MEETINGS, issued under the authority of the LAWN TENNIS ASSOCIATION.A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. oo Crown 4to., j)rmted on toned paper, j>rice 15s., by post 16s. THE ANNALS OF TENNIS. BY JULIAN MARSHALL. This work will be found very complete, and. it is thought, justly entitled to take its place as the standard work on Tennis. It has cost its author much laborious research; and, independently of its great value to tennis players and all lovers of the game, it is trusted, from the vast amount of curious lore it contains, the volume will be found not unworthy of a place on the shelves of the scholar. The author, himself a well-known amateur, is fully competent to speak with authority on the game, having had the opportunity of studying the play of the best Continental, in addition to that of the best English, masters, and, therefore, may be taken as a safe guide by learners. CONTENTS. I.—Tennis Abroad, II.—Tennis in England. III.—The Court and Implements. IV.—The Laws and their History V.—The Game. VI.—Appendix. Second Edition. Large post 8vo., price 5s., by post 5s. 3d. JA 3^ a- L I 3Sr C3-. BY THE LATE FRANCIS FRANCIS. Author of “ A Book on Angling," “ By Lake and Eiver,” “ Hot-Pot,” &c. CONTENTS. Preface. Chap. I.—The Art of Angling. II.—Mid-Water Fi.shing. III. —Surface or Fly Fishing. IV. —The Gudgeon, the Pope or Ruff, the Bleak, the Roach, the Rudd, the Dace, the Chub, the Barbel, the Bream, the Carp, the Tench, the Perch. Chap. V.—The Pike. VI.—Trout Fishing with Bait. VII.—Fly Fishing for Trout. VIII.—Trout Flies. IX.—Grayling Fishing, X.—Salmon Fishing. XI.—Salmon Flies. XII.—On Tackle Making. Addenda. In crown 8vo., price 2s., by post 2s. 2d. THE POTATO AND ITS CULTIVATION. BY A.. 'W. CBEWS. Author of " Guano : Its Origin, History, and Virtues," "Manures: their Respective Merits,” &c. CONTE NTS. Derivation — History — Constituents — Varieties — Sprouting - Soils — Planting— Manures—Earthing up—Disease—Scab—Storing—Forcing—Producing New Varieties—Substitutes for the “ Potato "—Mi.sccllaneous Information.23 PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. One Vol., cloth, price 7s. 6d., by post 7s. 9J.; 2 Vols., flexible morocco, price 10s., by post 10s. 3d. FIGURK-SKATING, SIA^F^XjIE J^lSriD C OAdZBIITEX) : BEING AN ENLARGED EDITION OF “COMBINED FIGURE SKATING.” Arranged as a complete text-book of the Art of Skating as practised in the leading Skating Clubs of Great Britain. BY MONTAGU S. MONIER-WILLIAMS, M.A., Oxon; WINTER RANDELL PIDGEON, M.A., Oxon; and ARTHUR DRYDEN, B.A., Cantab. Fourth Edition (1894). Price 5s. 6cl., by post 5s. 9d. A SYSTEM OF FIGURE SKATING. By T. Maxwell Witham This is the Fourth Edition of a work which has been the text-book of all Figure Skaters since 1869. The present Edition is practically a new book, all the letter- press having been revised and brought up to date, and all the diagrams, 276 in number, having been redrawn. The diagrams of the “ Skating Clubfigures are drawn in accordance with the manner of skating them authorised by the Com- mittee of the Skating Club, and a new departure in diagrams has been made by illustrating the “ Hand-in-Hand” figures with little diagraniatic representations of the skaters, thus clearly showing their relative positions iu the various changes. THE “FIELD” SKATING CARDS. Noiv ready, price Is., by p>ost Is. Id. COMBINED FIGURE CALLS. Skating- Cards, giving the Calls of Fifty Combined Figures, alternating. By R. H. FULLER, First-Class Badge Holder, N.S.A.A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS 21 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON E.C. Post 8vo., in cloth, price 5s., by post 5s. 4ci. SIOT-I^OT- MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS By the late Francis Francis, Author of “A Book on Angling,” “By Lake and Eiver,” “Angling,” &c. In demy 8vo., price 2s., by post 2s. 2d. VALUATION OF PROPERTY (CORPOEEAL AND INCORPOREAL). By CHARLES E. CURTIS, F.S.I., F.S.S. In crown 8vo., price Is., by post Is. Id. CATECHISM OF ESTATE MANAGEMENT. SECTION I. LETTING AND LEASES. By OHAS. E. CURTIS, F.S.I., Professor of Estate Management at the College of Agriculture, Principal of the School of Estate Management, Author of “Estate Management,” &c. Demy 8vo., price 5s. 6d., by post 5s. lOci. THE ROTHAMSTED EXPERIMENTS ON THE GROWTH OF WHEAT, BARLEY, AND THE MIXED HERBAGE OF GRASS LAND. (B.Sc. Lond., F.L.S., F.G.S., F.S.S.) Price 6d., by post Id, SHORT NOTES ON SILO EXPERIMENTS AND PRACTICE. (Extracted from “Silos for Preserving British Fodder Crops.PUBLISHED Br HOKACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Price 6d,, by post 7ci.; or 2s. 6d. the half-dozen, by post, 2s. llcZ. “The Field” Duplicate Judging Book 'Facilitates the work of the Judges at Poultry and other Shows, by a very simple method of entering and preserving a duplicate judging list. Price Is., by post Is. If?. THE CHKSS MOKTHLY. Edited by L. HOFFER. In croiun Svo., price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 8c?. MANURES: THEIR RESPECTIVE MERITS FROM AN ECONOMICAL POINT OF VIEW. BY- "W. CBBAATS, Author of “ Guano: its Origin, History, and Virtues,” *• The I’otato and its Cultivation,” &c. CONTENTS. PART. I.—Definition of the Word ‘‘Manure”—Nature's Modes of Applying Fertilisers—History—Classification. PART II.—The Value of Ploughing Down Green Crops—Weeds—Sea-weed— Straw—Sawdust—Tanners’ Bark—W^ood Ashes—Peat—Rape Cake—Hemp— I’oppy? Cotton, andCoeoa-nut Cakes—Bran—Malt Dust—Brewers’ Grains—Coal— Soot—Charcoal. PART III.—Dead Animals—Fish—Blood—Animalised Charcoal—Bones—Horn —Woollen Rags, Hairs, Feathers, &c.—Night-soil—Farmyard Manure—Guano. PART IV.—Salts of Ammonia—Salts of Magnesia—Salts of Potash—Salts of Soda—Common Salt—Lime and its Compounds—“ Ooze.”A CATALOGUE OF BOOKb WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. 2() “PASTIME” SERIES. Price Is., post free Is. THE LAWN TENNIS HANDBOOK FOR 1895. Contains Portraits of the All England Champions, and Messrs. W. 11. Collina and Herbert Chipp, hon. secretary and ex-secretary Lawn Tennis Association; numerous Articles, including “Tbe Service,” ‘-Lawn Tennis Courts,” “ IIow to Mark a Court,” &<•. Laws of the Game; Laws of the Lawn Tennis Association ; List of Champions; Fixtures for the Season; Eegulations for County and Inter- Club Matches, anti the County Challenge Cup; List of Lawn Teniiis Prize Winners, and Directory of Lawn Tennis Clubs and Tournaments. t'riee Gd., post free Id. THE CRICKET HANDBOOK FOR 1896. Containing Numerous Portraits of Prominent County Cricketers : Notes on the Counties, and much other useful information. Note ready, price Gd. each, post free 7^d. THE RUGBY AND ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL HANDBOOKS. Containing Articles by N. I.. .Tackson, J. Conway-llees, T. C. Graham. P. Maud, and others, with several Portraits; the Laws of Football; the Bye-laws and Rules of the Rugby Union and the Football Association: Complete Lists of International Players and the Results of Principal Matches; Interesting Curiosities and Records; Club Directoiy, Ac. PENNY EDITION OF THE LAWS OF FOOTBALL (RUGBY and ASSOCIATION). In Stiff Paper Covers. Suitable for the Waistcoat Pocket. Price Id., pest free l^d.27 PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON. E.C. In 8vo., jn-ice Is., by 2>()st l.<. 3d. THE Manifestation of Disease in Forest Trees, TMIi: CAUSKS A]N L) KlilAlKOIKS. BY' CHARLES E. CURTIS, F.S.I., F.S.S., Professor of Forest Economy, Field En^'ineering. and General Estate Management at the College of Agriculture, Downton, Salisbury; Member of the American Aeadem3' of Political and Social Science; Consulting Forester to the Right Honourable Lord O'Neill, Shanes Castle, Antrim, Ireland; Author of “Estate Management" (3rd Edition; Fie/d Office); -Practical Forestry” (Office of Land Agents' Record), “Principles of Forestry " (R. A. Society's Journal), “ Y^aluation of Property ” {Field Office), Ac., &c. Price Is., by post Is. Id. TATTEKSALL’S RULES ON BETTING, WITH EXPLANATORY’ NOTES AND COMMENTS, Containing an Account of Cases decided by Tattersall's Committee, with a Copious- Index, and the Rules of Racing appended. By G. HERBERT STUTFIELD, Barrister-at-Law, Author of the “Law Relating to Bhtling, Time Bargains, and Gaming." Price 6(7., inj jto-si 8(7. THE IMPROVED “PASTIME” LAWN TENNIS SCORE BOOK. Contains Score Sheets for Sixty Sets, arranged so as to further simplify Scoring in Handicaps; together with Table for adjusting odds under the Si.XTii System. It is used at all the principal Tournaments, and is the most complete Score Book ever published.A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM's BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. ■28 ■Second Edition, demy Soo., price 3s. 6(/., by post 3s. 9c/., Illustrated with several Diagrams. THE PRACTICAL SURVEYOR: A TREATISE UPOM SURVEYING. iSPECIALLY AREANGED FOR THE GUIDANCE OF PUPILS, STEWARDS, THE SCHOLASTIC PROFESSION, AND INTENDING EMIGRANTS. BY THOMAS HOLLOWAY. Pcap. 8vo., price Gd., by post l\d. BOfiES AND LOADS FOR SPORTING GUNS For British Game Shooting. By W. A. ADAMS Published Annually. Demy -Do., jo ice Is., hy post Is. 3c?. AND SPORTSMAN’S ILLUSTRATED CALENDAR FOR 18‘.»5. Demy 8ro., Cloth Boards, price 4s., by post 4s. 4d. A DAY at MONTE CARLO. BY W. .1. A. STAMPS It, Author of “ Dolce Napoli,” &e.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAm’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, K.C. 29* Royal 8vo., price IGs. net. ^porting iq ^outfiern India: BEING REMINISCENCES OF TWENTY TRIPS IN PURSUIT OF BIG GAME, CHIEFLY IN THE MADRAS PRESIDENCY. BY Lieut.-Col. a. J. O. pollock, Royal Scots Fusiliers. With numerous Illustrations by Whymper and others. Post 8vo., with Illustrations, price 3s. 6d. SPORT IN ENGLAND: Past and Present. BY COLONEL E. C COJNTT*' Useful Hints to Young Beginners. Young England as a Sportsman. The Poaching of Paired Birds. The Egg Season and its Enemies. Landlord and Tenant Eights. Crop Cutting. “ St. Grouse ” : Past and Present. “ St. Partridge ” : Past & Present. “ Longtails” : Past and Present. “ Covert Shooting.” Good Shots, ai.d others. Funny Facts in Sport. A Few Hints on Shooting Kits. Ferrets and their Management. Trapping, Netting, and Smiting. Poaching, and How it is Done. . C. HARTOPP. ;u:n'h*'s. Small Days and Pot Hunting. Turning Down Live Bought Pheasants. How and Where Babbit Farming can Pay. Tlie Gamekeeper and his Duties. Guns and Gun makers. Sport, as I have Found It. The Woodcock. The Partridge. The Cat. The Stoat. The Weasel. The Eat. Eecipes for Diseases in Dogs. Eetrievers of tlie Present Day.30 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS WINDSOR HOU.se, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Price 5s. net. HOESES, ASSES, ZEBEAS, MULES, AND MULE BEEEUmG. BY W. B. TEGETMEIER, F.Z.S., AND C. L. SUTH ERLAND. This work, which is profusely illustrated, includes a detailed description of all the animals of the horse tribe, and a demonstration of the advantages of mules for agricultural and draught purposes, as shown by their utilisatioii in Europe, America, and India. Price 3s. Gd. net. LYRA PISCATORIA. Oi*i<>:in.a,l Ti^oeixis oia tlae Z>^'atiTX*e, Hal>its, aaatl JNioclo or C’a])tu.r-e ol‘ all tlie Xlritisli JUvesli-watei’ JTislie^^, ora X^lies, X'"i«laiixg:, aixcl Fis-^liei’iiieia. By COTSWOLD ISYS, M.A., Author of “A Handj’^ Guide to Dry-fly Fishing,” &c., and Hon. Member of the Fly-Fishers’ Club. Price 6(7., paper covers, or Is. in cloth. SERVANTS AND MASTERS. THE LAW OF DISPUTES, RIGHTS, AND REMEDIES, l.V PJ..Ai:sr By ^ CONTENTS. Introductory Chapter - Engagement of Servants — Character of Servant—Duty of Servant - Duty of Employer—Employer’s Liability for Servant’s Negligence—Employer's Liability for Orders given by Servant—Dismi.ssal of Servant—Right of Servant to Leave Service— Wages—Commission Paid to Servants—Concluding Chapter.31 PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Demy 8fo., with Illuslrations and Map, price 12s. net. SIX MONTHS IN A SYRIAN MONASTERY, Being the record of a visit to the Headquarters of the Syrian Church in Mesopotamia, with some account of the Yazidis, or Devil Worshippers of Mosul, and El Jilwah, their sacreil book. By OSWALD H. PARRY, B.A. (Of Magdalen College, Oxford.) Illustrated by the Author. With a Prefatory Note by the Right Reverend the LORD BISHOP of DURHAM. Demy 8vo., cloth hoards, price 7-s. 6d. net. BRITANNIA’S BULWARKS: .A.]sr ITIS rOIilCAcT^ POEiAI, Descriptive of the Deeds of the British Navy from the battle of Sluys to the present day. By CHARLES R. LOW. The metre is that of Scott’s “ Marmion,” which is considered effec- tive for a poem of action. The work is di%'ided into two books, consisting of ten cantos, and contains, beside the history proper, a record of the services of distinguished seamen, and of historic s^ips of war. In the case of those bearing the names of classical celebrities, a sketch of these is given. The work is made easy of reference by a copious index. In paper covers, price Is. BY A FORIVIER ASSISTANT MASTER. My First Chief: Rev. Evan Jellicle, M.A.— My Second Chief : Herbert Strong, M.A.—My Third Chief : Eev. Uriah Meek, B.A.— My Fourth Chief : Rev. Algernon Fitzport, M.A.—My Fifth Chief: Frank Beaton, LL.D.—“ De Rebus Scholasticis ” : Looking Backward and Forward.A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 32 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Crown 8ro., cloth hoards, in'ice 5s. TljB and I^ingd of Cjedd, CONTAINING Biographical Sketches of Steinitz, Blackburne, Zukertort, Mackenzie, <&c. C A 1 S S A ]Sr A and A N K O 1) O T K S. BY THE REV. G. A. MACDONNELL, B.A. With Portrait htf A.rtJnir Hacher, A.R.A, Price 5s. net, hy post 5s. M. THE ART OF CHESS. By .TAAIKS MASONT. CONTENTS. I. The End Game.—Pawns v. Pawns—Minor Pieces, &c.—liook v.. Pawns—Rook, Sole or Supported, Against Various Forces — Queen v. Various Forces. II. The Middle Game.— Combination in General. III. The Opening. Introduction King’s Knight’s Game—Centre Game — King’s Gambits—King’s Gambit Declined-—French Defence—Centre Counter Game—Sicilian Defence—Fiancbetto, &c. — Queen’s Knight’s Game — Queen Pawn Opening — Appendix—The Problem Art. Crown 8vo., limp cloth, 2s. 6d. net; bevelled hoards, gilt edges, price 5s., hy post Sd. extra. THE PEINCIPLES OF CHESS IN THEORY AND PRACTICE. By CTjATvTBS NT-A.SOTT. Contents. — I. Elements of Chess —- II. General Principles — III. Combination—IV. Exposition of Master Play Complete.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 33 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. Grown 8vo., cloth boards, price 6s., by post 6». 3(7. IN MARKET OVERT. By JAMES PAYN. Author of ’‘By Proxy,” “The Confidential Agent,” “A Stumble on the Threshold,” &c. With Illustrations by Walter Paget. Crown 8vo., price Ss. 6(7., CHEAP EDITION OF A STUMBLE OU THE THRESHOLD. By NEW NOVEL BY GWENDOLEN DOUGLAS GALLON. Now ready, in Three Vols., croivn 8vo., price 31s. 6(7. “A STEP ASIDE.” BY' GWENDOLEN DOUGLAS GALTON (Mrs. trench GASCOIGNE). Author of “ La Fenton.” In Two Vols., crown 8vo., price 21s. AT CENTURY'S EBB. By CYPRIAN COPE. “A novel containing a good deal of strong incident, much variety of character and a love interest of an unforced and natural kind.’ — Daily Telegraph. “An ambitious novel.”—Manchester Guardian. “A capital novel. A love story of considerable incident, and strikingly varied characterisation. A novel that will be widely and appreciatively rco,d.."—Kentish Observer. “ A novel of great excellence, tvill be perused with great interest, not a single dull page.''—Dewsbury Importer.A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ;u Royal 8vo., cloth, VTofusely Illustrated, price 12.*;. 6J. net. TEXAN RANCH LIFE; WITH Three Months through Mexico in a ‘‘Prairie Schooner.” By MARY J. JAQUES. Third Edition in the Pre.'<s. Price lx. A GIRL’S RIDE IN ICELAND. BY MRS. ALEC TWEEDIE (N|':E HARLEY). Author of “ A Winter Jaunt to Norway ” (with ])ersonal accounts of Nansen, Ibsen, Bjornson, Braudes, Ac.). Fully Illustrated. REVIEWS OF THE FIRST EDITION. •“A Girl’s Rule in Iceland ’ is a most attractive little volume, wherein !Mrs. Alec Tweedie gives a spirited account of a spirited jaunt. . . . Mrs. Tweedie has persuaded her father, Mr. George Harley, F.R.S., to add a chapter on Geysers, which forms an instructive and valuable appendix to this charming little book."— At/ienscum. “ A. very pretty and clever 1 ttle volume. . . . Altogether the imi)ression her excellent book gives is that the land of the Sagas is more interesting than many a stock holidaj' report, while many tourists should be. obliged to Mrs. Alec Tweedie for showing how conveniently Iceland may be explored with the help of a little courage and cheerfulness."—Pailii Tclcijrajih. Crown 4fo., cloth, herelled edges, price 6s ; hy post Gs. Gd. TJAXjES. BY BASIL FIELD. Jicjuitiliilly IllutstratcHl ])V K. Fi'ipxj, Associate Member of the Reeyal Society of I’ainters in Water (,'olours. WIXDSOK HOUSE, BREAM .S BIT! EDINe.S. EOM>oX, E.U.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 35 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAm's BUIRDINOS, LONDON, K.C. NOVEL BY ESME STUART. In Two Vols., crown 8vo., price 21.«. MAERIED TO ORDER, By ESME STUART. Author of “Joan Vellacot,’ “A Woman of Forty," “ Kestell, of Greystone,” .fee. Crown 4fo., ^vith Illustraliovs, price 10s. nei. by post 10,s-. Gd. OLD ENGLISH EMBROIDERY: ITS TECHNIQUE AND SYMBOLISM, OR Ecclesiastical and Domestic Embroidery of the Middle Ages: ITS TECHNIQUE AND SYMBOLISM. By FRANCES and HUGH MARSHALL. In Ato., printed on toned paper, with plates, price by post os. Ad. THE QUEEN LACE BOOK: AN Historical and Descriptive Account of the Haul-made Antique Laces of all Count’ies. BYT L. YAT. This work contains the whole of the series of articles on .Xiitique Point Lacc which have been i)ublishefl in “ The Queen." It will prove an invaluable guide and book of reference to ladies interested in Antique Lace, and, with its highly ornamental embossed cover, will form a handsome oimament for the drawing-room table. Price One Shillin'); by Post, Is. 3J. THE QUEEN ALMANAC AND LADY’S CALENDAR for 189S.A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 36 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAm’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. In cloth, price 2s. 6d, THE METROPOLITAN HOUSEHOLDER’S GUIDE: BEING AN ATTEMPT TO OUTLINE, IN PLAIN LANGUAGE, A METEOPOLITAN HOUSEHOLDER’S LEGAL POSITION. By ROLAND ELLIS DE VESIAN (Solicitor of the Supreme Court of ./udicature). With Illustrations, price 2s. 6d. THE C O T I L L O : DETAILS OF ALL THE NEWEST FIGURES WITH AND WITHOUT ACCESSORIES. By ARDERN holt. Author of “Fancy Dresses Described; or What to Wear at Fancy Balls,” and “ Gentlemen’s Fancy Dress.” Crown 8vo., cloth boards, price 2s. net. FAST DAY AND VEGETARIAN COOKERY. BY IE . dvn . CO W E (“Fpicure,” late of the “Gentlewoman.’') AND S. EE A-TE - E O TAT TsT Ij Xj. POETRY AND THE DRAMA. SONGS GRAVE AND GAY. By F. B. Doveton, Author of “Snatches of Son^,’’ “ Sketches in Prose and Verse,’’ “Maggie in Mythica, &c. In cloth lettered, gilt edges, 5s. LYRICS. By Dr. J. A. Goodchild. Cloth lettered, price 5s. TALES IN VERSE. By Dr. J. A. Goodchild. Cloth lettered, price os. SONGS OF THE CASCADES. By Erl Viking. Fcap. 8vo., cloth boardfi, 6s. THE FAIREST OF THE ANGELS, and other Verse. By Mart Colborne-Vekl. Fcap. 8vo., cloth boards, .8s. (>d. THE WANDERER IN THE LAND OF CYBI, and other Poems (1886-9.3). By Cliffoud Brooks. Fcap. 8vo., cloth boards, .3s. 6d. POEMS. By Lewis Brockman. Crown 8vo., cloth boards, 5s. POEMS. By Thomas Barlow. Crown 8vo., bevelled boards, gilt edges, price .Is.PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 37 WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. New Novel by Mrs. ALEC TWEEDIE. Second Edition. Price 6s. WILTON, Q.C.; OR Life in a Highland Shooting Box. BY MRS. ALEC TWEEDIE (NEE HARLEY). Author of “ A Winter Jaunt to Norway ” (with Personal Accounts of Nansen, Ibsen, Bjornson, Brandes); “ A Girl’s Ride in Iceland,” &c. Crown 8uo., price 6s. WHEN FORTUNE FROWNS: BEING THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF G-ZI_i OOSWOZ^TZZ, A GENTLEMAN OP CORNWALL, How he fought for Prince Charles in the years 1745 and 1746, and what befell him thereafter. By KATHARINE LEE (Mrs. henry JENNER). Author of “ A Western Wildflower,” “ In London Town,” “ Katharine Blyth,” •“ An Imperfect Gentleman,” “ Love or Money,” “ In the Alsatian Mountains,” &c. Crown 8vo., with Illustrations, price 3s. 6d. THE MAETYRDOM OF SOCIETY. By QUILLIM RITTER New Novel, price Is. CAUGHT BT A COOK. By EDITH E. CUTHELL, Author of “ Only a Guardroom Dog,” “ Indian Memories,” “ A Baireuth Pilgrimage,” &c.A. CATALOGUE OF BOOKS. VVIXBSOK HOI'SK, BREAM S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C. :^s IN THE PRESS. In post 8vo., ''loth, ^rith Map and Illustrations. THE COASTS OF DEVON AND LUNDY ISLAND: THEIR TOWNS, VILLAGES, SCENERY, ANTIQUITIES, AND LEGENDS. BY JOHN LLOYD WARDEN PAGE. Author of ’‘An Exploration of Dartmoor and its Antiquities,” “An Exploration of Exmoor and the Hill Country of West Somerset,” “ The Rivers of Devon from Source to Sea,” “ Okehampton: Its Castle,” Ac., Ac. fn crown 8no., cloth. A BEING SOME REMINISCENCES OP IX. Xj I ^ nvc o’xtexxjX.. Captain Yacht “ Iverna.” Edited by CHARLES BESLEY. In demij Sro., vith Map and Illustrations. An Australian in China: BEING THE NARKATTVE OF A QUIET JOURNEY ACROSS CHINA TO BRITISH BURMA. BY G, E. MORRISON, M B.C.M. Ediii., F.R.Ct.S.INDEX TO BOOKP. PAGE. A L>ay at Monte Carlo ... 28 A Girl’s Ride in Iceland ... 84 An Australian in China ... 38 Angler’s Diary 16 Angling 22 Angling Reminiscences ... 11 Annals of Tennis 22 Archer’s Register 20 Art of Ches.s 32 A Remedy for Bad Times ... 11 A Step Aside 33 A Stumble on the Threshold 33 At Century’s Ebb 33 Betting Rules 27 Boat Racing 8 Bores and Loads 28 Britannia’s Bulwarks 31 British and Irish Fishes ... 3 Catechism of Estates 24 Cattle of Great Britain ... 6 Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs ... 7 Caught by a Cook 37 Chess Monthly 25 Coasts of Devon 38 Collie or Sheep Dog 12 Cottager’s Manual of Poultry 18 Country House 10 Coursing Calendar 15 Cricket Grounds 16 Cricket Handbook 26 Disease in Forest Trees ... 27 Down Channel 5 Essays on Sport 6 Fairy Tales 34 Fast-Day and Vegetarian Cookery 36 Figure-Skating 23 PAGE. Football Handbooks 26 Fox Terrier 12 Gamekeeper’s Shooting Book 10 Gipsy Tents 20 Golf Greens 9 Golfing Annual 9 Greyhound Stud Book ... 15 Hare Hunting 19 Hints to Horsewomen 21 Hockey Rules 21 Horns and Hoofs 11 Horse Bleeding 20 Horses, Asses, Zebras, &c.... 30 Hot-Pot 24 Hunting Countries 17 In Market Overt 33 Judging Book 25 Kennel Club Stud Book ... 15 Knights and Kings of Chess 32 Lawn Tennis Laws 21 Lawn Tennis Handbook ... 26 Lawn Tennis Regulations ... 21 Law'n Tennis Score Book ... 27 Laws of Football 2'6 Laws of Golf 16 Letters from a Country House 21 Lyra Piscatoria 30 Lyrics 36 Management of Fisheries ... 20 Man Hunting 11 Manures 25 Married to Order 35 Martyrdom of Society ... 37 Metropolitan Householder’s Guide • 36 Modern Dogs 1440 INDEX TO BOOKS. PAGE. Modern Sportsman’s Gun and Rifle, Vols. I. & II. ... 13 Modern Wildfowling 19 My Chiefs 31 Old English Embroidery ... 35 Pheasant Book 3 Pheasant Rearing 10 Pigeon Shooting Rules ... 11 Poems (Lewis Brockman) ... 36 Poems (Thomas Barlow) ... 36 Potato Cultivation 22 Poultry 18 Practical Surveyor 28 Principles of Chess 32 Proof of Guns, Notes on ... 21 Queen Almanac 35 Queen Lace Book 35 Rabbits 8 Rothamsted Experiments ... 24 Rowing Almanac 8 Rural Almanac 28 Salmonidae 4 Science and Art of Training 18 Servants and Masters 30 Sheep and Pigs 6 Shifts, &c., of Camp Life ... 9 PAGE. Silo Experiments 24 Six Months in a Syrian Monastery 31 Skating Cards 23 Songs Grave and Gay 36 Songs of the Cascades ... 36 Sport in England 29 Sporting Days in S. India ... 29 Sporting Sketches 13 Sportsman’s Vade-Mecum... 12 Swimming Instructor 14 System of Figure Skating ... 23 Tales in Verse 36 Texan Ranch Life 34 The Cotillon 36 The Fairest of the Angels ... 36 Twenty-six Years, &c 19 Valuation of Property ... 24 Wanderer in the Land of Cybi 36 When Fortune Frowns ... 37 Wilton, Q.C 37 Yacht and Boat Sailing ... 5 Yacht Architecture 4 Yacht Racing Calendar ... 5 Yacht Racing Record 38