16 I'm-73476 MEDICAL LIBRARY NJlO^Y- ft/ r AJDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21448085[Price Gif. PART I. SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS, BEING A <Qu«tttcrl|» Hrport CASES IN SURGERY. BY CHARLES BELL. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN, PATERNOSTER-RUM'. 1816. V Biraai’il *nd I'avlny, Skinner-Mrce!, London.«*7 *D 2. 4~o«,# The Publishers think it right to inform the Purchasers of this Work, that the Letter-press of this Number has unavoidably extended Forty-four Pages beyond the estimated Quantity for each Number, for which, however, no additional Charge is made. Paternoster-Row, August 31, 1816.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS; BEING A <£}u*irtrrli> Report CASES IN SURGERY; TREATED IN THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, IN THE CANCER ESTABLISHMENT, IN PRIVATE PRACTICE. EMBRACING AN ACCOUNT OF THE ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN THE SCHOOL OF WINDMILL STREET. — • BY CHARLES BELL. Uonlum: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PA TERNOSTER-RO W. 1816.♦ . • :'A fc.tfrtface. The object of this Work is to illustrate the Prin- ciples of Surgery by Observations made in a Public Hospital and in a School of Anatomy, where every thing is open to inspection, and where, conse- quently, the statements are made in the presence of many observers. The Author does not intend to publish more than Three Volumes of Cases. These he hopes will embrace the whole Practice of Surgery, and supply a Book of Reference for the History of Surgical Diseases, and the minute Account of Symptoms. This work was suggested by observing, that published Cases contain only what is new and mon- strous, and but few examples which may serve to initiate the young Surgeon into the business of his profession. But although the Author began to take his Cases with the intention of illustrating the common matters of practice, he now hopes that they may sometimes have the interest of novelty also; since the close observation of what are called common Cases has led to new views and improve- ments of practice, as well as to the illustrations of the acknowledged principles of the art. Every one must be convinced that there is room for a Critical a 2IV PREFACE. Inquiry into the present state of Surgery, and it cannot be more safely undertaken than in the form of Observations made at the bed-side of the pa- tients. In published cases, a very common defect is too much consistency—matters proceed so smooth- ly, that when the young Surgeon enters on the actual duties of his profession, he is troubled with adverse occurrences, for which he is quite unpre- pared : and he wonders to find his experience so different from what he has been led to expect from the perusal of Cases. The utility of Cases arises from the confessions of the Surgeon which exer- cise the reader’s mind, and enable him to antici- pate the harassing difficulties of practice. Who- ever proposes to publish useful Cases, must have a full dependence on the candour and liberality of his readers, and forget those who lie in wait for oc- casions of rancorous criticism. He has to draw two parallel histories—the history of symptoms, and the history of his own mind, with his doubts and anxieties during the course of the disease. Just so far as the observer’s mind is active, and the communication of his thoughts free, will the Cases be useful. The Author wishes to avoid that distortion which love of system produces in Cases which are given in illustration of particular doctrines. He hopes to combine the interest and usefulness which arise from the perusal of Cases, classed so as to enforce practical results, with the genuine and un-PREFACE. V coloured statement which belongs to the records of an hospital. With this view the details are noted in their progress, in the form of a journal, but the practical lessons are given in accompany- ing remarks; being selections from the Clinical Lec- tures delivered to the Students of the Middlesex Hospital—remarks made to those who have wit- nessed or assisted in recording the facts on which those lectures form a commentary. Cases naturally connected are thrown together under the head of Report; but the subject of these Reports will be brought forward repeatedly in the course of the work, and it is to be hoped, therefore, that they will not be judged of as com- plete dissertations. In a work which is to be published in parts, it is necessary to make this statement of the Author’s views; and these explained, and the extent of his opportunities being known to beat least as great as the most industrious man can use to advantage, the Author dares venture no further in stating what is to be contained in these volumes. Those who feel interested to inquire, may find security for the ful- filment of this undertaking in a life hitherto given up to the improvement of the younger members of the profession—where the labour and the pastime have been only a variation in the manner, not in the object of pursuit,—namely, the improvement of Anatomy, and its application. The Author now enters on subjects of higher interest, and greater magnitude, as relating to questions of lifeVI PREFACE. and death. In judging of his motive it will per- haps be recollected, that upwards of twenty years have been given to Anatomy, and to the teaching of the acknowledged Principles of Surgery, with- out aiming at improvements in practice; that be- fore he has entered critically on matters of practice, he has waited until half a life, spent in the labori- ous duties of teaching, together with the possession of the fullest opportunities, may be supposed to have matured his judgment. He is happy in thinking, that by this under- taking, he shall prolong the term of his connexion with his pupils, and continue to afford to them, though in the country or on service, the advantages of Hospital Practice and an extended experience, which at a distance from the capital are not easily obtained. London, Solio-Square, September 2,1816-CONTENTS OF N°. I. Page First Report on Cancer 1 Opinion of the Medical Committee of the Middlesex Hospi- tal on the Effect of Compression in Cancer 4 Additional Observations on the Effect, of Compression 6 Seoo>::> ]• . Containing Cases of Diseases and Wounds of itie j rynx, and of the Operation of Laryngotomy 14 Of the Membrane in Croup 15 Operation of Laryngotomy unsuccessful from Delay 17 Distinct Diseases enumerated under the term CynanclieLa- ryng’ca. 18 Example of Phthysis Laryngea in the Case of Weymouth.. 18 Further Examples of Ulceration in the Larynx and Trachea 20 Suffocation from Disease of the Larynx 22 Operation of Laryngotomy 24 Second Case of Suffocation 32 Third Case of Disease of the Larynx—threatened Suffo- cation averted 34 Ulcer of the Throat which opened the internal carotid Ar- tery, and which was supposed to be a Case of Htemoptoe 39 Symptoms of Ulcer in the Glottis imitated in Hysteria 40 Death of a Suicide from wounding the Thyroid Gland 42 Observation of the third Lobe of the Thyroid Gland 43 Wound of the Thyroid Cartilage with a Pen-lcnife fatal.... 43 A Portion of the Arytenoid Cartilage cut, and hanging- in the Glottis, causing Suffocation 44 The Division of the Rings of the Trachea fatal 44 Remarks on the Operation of Laryngotomy 45 Third Report. Being Cases of diseased Pharynx and CEsoplia- gus 52 Scirrhous Contraction of the Pharynx 53 Catalogue of Preparations, illustrative of the same Subject.. 59 Remarks on these Examples 01 A Preternatural Bag formed in the Pharynx, which ob- structed the Bougie 64 How formed 69 Abscesses communicating with the Pharynx 70viii CONTENTS. Page Stricture of the (Esophagus, cured by Caustic 72 Stricture of the (Esophagus fatal 70 Obstruction to swallowing from fungous Tumors in the (Eso- phagus, fatal 77 Remarks on the Cases of difficult Deglutition 79 Of Spasmodic Stricture... „ 8b Fourth Report. Containing Cases of Fistula in Perineo Bursting of the Urethra and sloughing of the Scrotum—Pa - tient saved Bursting of the Urethra, sloughing of the Scrotum, sive Sinuses around the Belly—Patient saved Remarks on the preceding Case . 9/ Extravasation of Urine into the cavernous Body of the Pen. fatal 98 Bursting of the Urethra, with Extravasation of Urine, where the sloughing of the Scrotum was prevented 99 . Bursting of the Urethra, with Extravasation of Urine, fatal 100 Bursting of the Urethra, where Punctures were made in the Scrotum, but ineffectually, from being too small and su- perficial 102 Urinary Abscess confounded with Hernia, and the Patient lost by Delay 105 Review of these Cases 108 Cases of Urinary Abscess 110 Abscesses of the Perineum, where no Breach of the Ure- thra took place Ill Another Example, from Stricture of the Orifice 113 Another Example, from the Use of the Bougie 114 Abscess of the Perineum communicating with the Urethra.. 115 Stricture, with Abscess in the Perineum—the Patient in the first Instance saved, but worn out with Irritation 117 A similar Case, with remarkable Destruction of the Urethra 122 Fistula in Perineo of 20 Years standing 125 The Operation ... 129 After Treatment 131EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE I. ¥ 'J'HIS Figure represents a Back View of the Pharynx and (Esophagus, disordered by a Scirrhous thickening and Ulcera- tion. A. The Velum Pendulum Palati & Uvula. B. B. The Tonsils much enlarged and tuberculated. C. The Glottis and Epiglottis rough with Ulceration. D. The Pharynx tuberculated by the Disease of its glandular Structure. E. A Stricture formed in the inner Membrane of the (Esopha- gus. F. The (Esophagus below the Stricture. G. The Thyroid Gland much enlarged. PLATE ir. This Figure is presented as an Example of a very common Appearance of those Parts. Fig. 1. The Larynx and Pharynx. [Sec Page 67.] A. Pharynx. B. Os Hyoides. C. Epiglottis. bEXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. X D. Thyroid Cartilage. E. Thyroid Gland. F. Fibres of the Constrictor Pharyngis. G. A Preternatural Bag, formed by the inner Membrane of the Pharynx, being thrust betwixt the Muscular Fibres. H. QE-ophagus. I. Trachea. Fig. 2. The CEsophagus which has suffered Stricture in conse- quence of swallowing Soap Lees. A. CEsophagus above the Stricture. B. The Stricture. C. The Membrane of the CEsophagus drawn into Folds. D. The lower Part of the Stricture, which is distinctly formed by a Layer of coagulable Lymph. E. CEsophagus below the Stricture. PLATE IV. - • • - • i.: w, Fig. 1. A Stricture of the CEsophagus. See page 77. A. Epiglottis. B. B. False Glottis. C. C. The Pharynx in Outline. D. The Stricture into which a Hog’s Bristle is introduced. E. The Bristle. F. The CEsophagus below the Stricture. G. The Trachea. Fig. 2. Refers to a Paper of Mr. Shaw’s not published: it shows the Beginning of the Disease of the Prostate treated of by Sir Everard Home./y./A- /Bate ff. Fig. 2. Ftp. s. 1JPtoh /)/ PuhHihrti Xth o i rtf A.. /THEATRE OF ANATOMY, <®mt a&JinUtmll £tmt. TWO Courses of Lectures are given during the Winter and Spring Seasons, by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Bell; one Course beginning on the ls£ Day of October, and terminating on the 1Oth Day of January ; the other Course beginning on the 19th Day of January, and terminating towards the middle of May. A Lecture is given Daily, from Two until near Four o’Clock. A Room is opened for Dissections, from Nine in the Morn- ing till Two in ihe Afternoon, from the 10th Day of October till the 20th Day of April, where regular and full Demonstra- tions of the Parts dissected are given ; where the Application of Anatomy to Surgery is explained; the Methods of operating shown on the dead Body; and where also the various Arts of Injecting and making Preparations are taught. The Demonstrations in the Dissecting Rooms will be given by Mr. Shaw, who will attend during the Forenoon to assist the Students. Mr. Shaw will examine the younger Students on Anatomical Subjects, as formerly, once a Week. Two Courses of Surgical Lectures will be delivered by Mr. Bell, during the Season. Once a Week, during the Course, a Review will be made of the Occurrences and Practice of the Hospital. Particulars may be known by applying to Mr. Shaw, at the Museum, Great Windmill Street; or at Mr. Beli/s, Soho Square, during the Morning; and at the Hospitals of the West End of the Town.' . « . • ' ; . • L .• V . « • - .VOL. I. PT. I. B gjurgtcal ©liscrtoations. &c. &c. FIRST REPORT. ON CANCER. A Report on Cancer is offered in the Com- mencement of this work as a pledge for the fulfil- ment of one of the objects which I had in view in undertaking it, which was to give the history of this disease and of those which most resemble it. It is a field hitherto so little cultivated, or so barren of improvement, that it requires a pledge to pre- vent the relinquishment of so painful a subject. But were there no hope of improving our practice in this disease, it is still a duty, especially incum- bent on a Surgeon of the Middlesex Hospital, to turn others from the errors which he may himself have committed, and to shew, by his experience, what is injurious or unprofitable.2 FIRST REPORT. For a long time the patients in the Cancer Establishment of the Middlesex Hospital were taught to return thanks to an unknown benefactor. The late John Howard brought a sum of money to the hospital from one who desired the benefac- tion to be concealed. This money was given for the purpose of supporting a certain number of women, victims of cancerous disease, and for afford- ing an opportunity of investigation. On the death of the late Mr. Whitbread’s father, it was ascertained that he was the benevolent founder of this institution. The late Mr. Whit- bread himself took a great interest in the estab- lishment, and in every attempt to discover a cure for cancer. I witnessed his unwearied attention to this subject, as he consulted me on some of the many schemes which were offered to him ; and I am in- debted for the great exertions which he made on the occasion of my election to the Middlesex Hos- pital, to his belief that I would endeavour to make this institution useful to the utmost of my power. The humane attention of the governors who con- stitute the board of the Middlesex Hospital, to the objects of the charity, is well known ; and on this particular subject of cancer they have shewn great zeal and liberality. Many proposals are an- nually received by them for the cure of cancer, and always with that consideration which the motives of those who offer them deserve. But while our governors have shewn themselves most3 ON CANCER. desirous of promoting inquiry on the subject of cancer, they have remained uncontaminated by that love of quackery which is so common among the gentry of England, and have referred these pro- posals to their medical officers. Of the subjects brought into notice during the last year, two have principally engaged attention : the treatment of cancer by regimen, and what is said to be a successful mode of curing cancer, by compression. The recommendation of the plan of compression by Mr. Whitbread, called the attention of the surgeons of the hospital to the subject. The fol- lowing report gives the result of their practice. I have only to observe, that the essential part of this new plan of cure is the compression of the cancer- ous tumor, gently at first, and with a force gra- dually increased, till at last it is augmented to a very great degree : and that the means are these—if the cancer be open, the various holes and cavities are filled up from the bottom with chalk, finely levigated, and all the surface is thickly covered with hair powder ; over this, long plaster straps are put, so as to cover the whole surface of the tumor, over this again are placed linen com- presses, bound down with the turns of a roller, firmly applied, and of six yards in length ; or over the first straps are laid a second set, bracing the parts more firmly than the first, over this a plate of lead, and lastly, the long roller is carried round the chest, compressing the whole. n 2FIRST REPORT. 4 REPORT OF TIIE iliflelrical titommitte* of tije OF THB 22D JUNE, 1816, ON THE RESULT OF THEIR EXPERIENCE IN CASES OF CANCER TREATED BY COMPRESSION. The Medical Committee having met, pursuant to the resolution of the Board, to take into consi- deration the result of their experience in the cases of cancer, treated by compression, report as fol- lows :— That eight cases of open cancer [as it is com- monly called] and eight cases also of the scirrhous kind, have been submitted to the treatment by compression ; some of them for several months, and others for a shorter period. That in some of the cases of open cancer, com- bined with considerable oedema, the pressure was useful in lessening the volume of the tumor : but that it had not, even in a single instance, any salutary influence upon the specific nature of the disease. It frequently gave so much pain that the patients could not, after repeated trials, endureON CANCER. 5 it, under any modification whatever; and often it appeared to hasten the fatal event. That in the scirrhous tumors, the disease ad- vanced, rendering extirpation necessary in two instances: in six others the disease passed into ulceration, assuming the usual malignant appear- ances, and terminating in death. Two cases still remain under the care of the respective medical officers. Your Committee have therefore to lament, that compression cannot be regarded as a remedy for cancer. Your Committe, however, although they can not Jay claim to the discovery of a specific, have still the consolation to believe that they have in many cases succeeded in obtaining great alleviation of suffering ; such alleviation as might, perhaps, induce some speculative minds, less disciplined by experience, to conclude, that they had at length succeeded in discovering a cure for cancer. Your Committee can only express their deter- mination to continue the attention which they have always given to the object of your establish- ment.6 FIRST REPORT. ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS, ON THE SUBJECT OF THE FOREGOING REPORT, DELIVERED TO THE STUDENTS OF THE HOSPITAL. In the end of a season, when most of you are going into the country, you ought to be made acquainted with the effects of compression on Cancer, as exhibited in the practice of this hospital. And having heard the above report of our experience, I would now have you to examine the subject further, by reasoning and the compa- rison of what is proposed, with the principles of surgery, which it has been your business to learn. And in the first place, permit me to say, that the question is not whether pressure be of service in cancer ? but whether or not a very great degree of pressure is equal to the destruction and eradica- tion of cancer ? It is known to every pupil within the walls of this hospital, that regulated pressure is one of the most powerful means that can be used for the alleviation or cure of a great many local diseases: and in this lies the source of error. Pressure is sometimes attended with visible advantages even in cancer, which has given rise to unreasonable expectation, and as these must be disappointed, what has taken place in other instances is in danger of happening here, where a remedy extra- vagantly extolled, is, on the appearance of failure,7 ON CANCER. altogether discarded. Let me therefore remind you, 1. That rest and support are necessary to the cure of surgical diseases. Of this the venereal ward at this time furnishes you with two pertinent examples. Mercury is the specific for venereal ulcers ; yet without com- pression and rest the sores in the groin, and the fistulous sores on the side of the chest and around the clavicle, in the case of Basset, would have propagated themselves, or remained a source of irritation upon the constitution. You have seen that simple dressing with the compress, like a ball placed in the groin, and the spica bandage, has very quickly amended the aspect of the buboes: and the sores upon the breast, though of long standing, have healed under pressure, and the binding down of the arm, so as to restrain its motion. And here let me remind you of an observation, too little attended to, that when the mamma is fretted with an open ulcer, or when there is much disease of skin with sinuses, or disease in the axilla, it is necessary to bind both the chest and the arm. Some of you must remember the ex- ample that I have offered to your notice on an- other occasion. A gentleman had sores with sinuses on his chest, which resisted every means of cure, until the attendants concluded that they were habitual to the constitution, and irremedi-8 FIRST REPORT. able : at length, by a lucky accident, he broke his arm, and under the necessary bandaging and confinement of motion, his sinus quickly filled up. Do not therefore be satisfied with pressure, though it be extolled as a sovereign remedy for ulcers : but give rest. Remember how the same ulcer differs on the ancle joint and on the leg : how an ulcer on the lip, or on the tongue, will, by the same cause, (namely, incessant mo- tion) be irritated into the appearance of a malig- nant disease: how an inflammation or abscess about a joint or in the tract of muscles, will be aggravated by motion. Further, your lessons of anatomy teach you, that in order to give rest to a suppuration on the side of the head, the jaw must be kept still : if in the loins, the thigh must be kept still : if on the breast or back, the arm must be kept still. In applying a bandage to an ulcer or sinus, two things are to be attended to, that the diseased parts be supported, and that they have rest. So far as the practice we are examining effects those two purposes, it is beneficial : when carried fur- ther, it is injurious. That it is carried by much too far, I have no hesitation in affirming. In the work which has been recommended by the letter of Mr. Whitbread, the case in which the cure is most satisfactory (indeed, if I recollect, the only instance of cure) is of a cancerous lip. It is easy to prove that.9 ON CANCER. 2. They are anticipated in the method of curing what is called cancer of the lip. A short statement of the progress of my opinion on this subject, will be the best illustration of the principle. I had seen the excision of a part of a cancerous lip, [or rather, such as was supposed to be cancerous], where a part of the ulcer was necessarily left, it being impracticable to cut away the whole diseased portion ; notwithstanding this, the operation succeeded ; that is to say, the wound united, and the remaining ulcer healed. Reflect- ing on this occurrence, two things seemed evident —1. That the disease which appeared so malig- nant in its aspect, was in reality not cancer, but an ulcer, aggravated by the motion of the lip—2. It was made manifest that the pinning and strapping of the lip after the operation, to keep it still, and procure adhesion, had the further effect of remov- ing the cause of irritation, and healing the remain- ing ulcer. The practice obviously deducible from this rea- soning was, that if by the straps, or what are called the dry suture, we could keep the lip perfectly still, and prevent it from moving in the act of speaking, laughing, swallowing, &c. we should in- fallibly cure malignant ulcers of the lip without excision. This I put in practice with success, twelve years ago, and have since uniformly recom- mended it. 3. Specific action is not subdued by pressure,10 FIRST REPORT. and therefore this method, can not he a cure for cancer. According to my experience, pressure does not subdue specific action. It will diminish the size of tumors: it will produce a wasting even of natural parts ; but that specific action which is the essential character of cancer, and that which is the cause, or which precedes the morbid accretion and growth, will continue under pressure while there is life in the part. This we might expect from the revival of the cancerous action, in cir- cumstances nearly resembling the means now pro- posed to destroy it. When it has been supposed that all the tumor of the cancerous mamma has been extirpated, the cut surfaces brought into contact, strapped and covered with lead to keep them smooth, with compress and bandage over all —at the time the natural action of healing prevails, and when the parts are kept at rest and compress- ed, the edges of the incision become tuberculated, * and the cancerous action is propagated, and recom- mences its ravages in the cicatrix. This is a fact familiar to the experience of most surgeons in their early practice, and was one rea- son among many, why I never could allow myself to hope for success from this new mode of com- pression. In point of fact, in no one instance has compression retarded the progress of the disease, nor subdued, even for a time, the specific action of cancer.ON CANCER. 11 4. Nor is it desirable that the absorption of the matter of cancer should take place. In true cancer there is a peculiar matter un- like the original structure of the body, produced by the specific action, and deposited in the tex- ture of the tumor. Now, were it proved, that the compress and bandage did actually excite the lymphatics, to absorb the cancerous deposition, and carry it into the circulation, it does not appear to be a thing desirable. As this, however, is merely matter of opinion and speculation, I shall not dwell upon it further than to say, that in the cases in which the effect of pressure was mani- fested by the diminution of the tumor of the breast, it certainly did not retard the course of the disease, nor change the nature, nor diminish the severity of the last fatal symptoms. 5. Pressure accelerates the coming on of the last fatal symptoms in scirrhus of the breast. Women labouring under cancerous mamma die of an affection of the chest, generally with great collections of serum in the cavities of the chest. In the case of Davidson, there was a circumstance which marks very strongly the oppression which those patients have to suffer: more than a gallon of fluid was in the cavities of the chest, which had so impeded the course of the blood from the right to the left side of the heart, that the blood had oozed from a small chink in the cava, and dis- tended the pericardium.FIRST REPORT. 12 It cannot therefore have been surprising to you, that this woman and many others, on whom the bandage has been firmly applied, have thrown their trappings off as an insufferable load. 6. Pressure brings the diseased mamma earlier into contact with the muscles and ribs, and thereby accelerates the fatal affection of the chest. By a great degree of pressure upon the large scirrhous mamma, a very rapid change is produced upon the bulk of the tumor. But the absorption is principally of the interstitial fluids and sur- rounding fat, and a condensation of the cellular membrane takes place. By this wasting and com- pression of the subjacent cellular substance and fat, the mass of disease is brought nearer to the muscles and ribs, and adhesion of the tumor to the ribs is the consequence. It has been stated that compression loosens the tumor, but in one instance the application of the straps and bandage had the effect of fixing the tumor of the breast in the proportion of its diminution. Certainly in that case the disease is now incorporated with the ribs, and effusion into the cavity of the chest must soon take place. The late Dr. Denman greatly improved his de- partment of practice, and was justly esteemed in the first rank for independence and knowledge, as well as beloved for his many virtues. He fell into the belief that pressure would prove a remedy for cancer, and lent the influence of his name to re-13 ON CANCER. commend this practice. He, in a particular man- ner, expressed a hope that it would prove a means of suppressing the fungus haematodes. But you have seen two cases of that disease in which pres- sure aggravated the pain, and had no power in subduing the tumor. 7. The idea is not new. And now it only remains for me to state, that the idea of destroying by pressure, dangerous tu- mors, which could not be extirpated with the knife, is familiar to me from my first entering upon the study of our profession. Mr. John Bell had an opinion, that it was possible to suffocate and subdue the action of vessels in tumors by the com- press and bandage. This he was wont to illustrate by the effect of that bandaging of the limbs, by which mendicants reduce the substance of their limbs to a third part of their natural bulk; by the example of the feet of the women of China, and other ingenious analogies. He argued, that if the natural structure of the body could be moulded by pressure, why should not these formidable tu- mors ? When tumors have been of the nature of aneu- rism or varicose enlargement of vessels, I have seen advantage from the application of the roller and cold solution, but I have never seen any oc- currence now or formerly, to encourage the hope of curing cancer by pressure.r 14 i SECOND REPORT. CASES OJ miscast anti 3l&lounti0 of ttje fLatpnf, AND OF THE OPERATION OF LARYNGOTOMY. This subject is introduced on the very first occasion, from a conviction of its importance, and from the persuasion that it has not met with the attention it deserves. Very early in life I witnessed the death of a student, from suffocation. He had dined abroad, and being a careless, dissipated young man, he had reeled home through the streets in a severe winter night. The following day he was attacked with shivering and fever, and sore throat, and died, in three days, from suffocation. On dissec- tion, no obstruction in the larynx was to be ob- served, but only an inflammation of the membrane of the larynx, and a spot like a small pox* pus- * Without meaning to say that this was a small-pox pustule, yet it proves a fortiori, that the small-pox pustule forming in theCASES OF DISEASES AND WOUNDS, &C. 15 tule upon the margin of the glottis. Sudden death, from a cause seemingly so trifling, made a strong impression upon me, and from that time I have omitted no opportunity of searching into the diseases of the trachea. On this, and on many other occasions, it will be necessary to refer to the preparations in my collection, both as authorities on which to ground my reasoning, and in order to keep the reader’s attention to the facts of morbid anatomy. We shall commence our observations on the most secure grounds, having before us the catalogue of what is most useful to be known of the appearances on dissections* *. XI. 1. M. 1, 2,3,4. In these four examples of disease of the larynx, we see the nature of the membrane of croup. It is formed by inflamma- tion of the membrane lining the larynx and tra- chea, by which a proportion of coagulable lymph larynx will cause suffocation. See an example in “ Bulletin de la faculty de Medicine, 1814, par M. Chaussier.” * And here I may observe, that those practitioners, who only occasionally visit the capital, will ever find a ready admission to the Museum in Windmill-street, and a gentleman to direct them to the objects of inquiry, in reference to this work. To those members of the profession who reside iu town, the Mu- seum will be open, during the winter, from eleven till twelve in the forenoon, twice a week. By this arrangement I shall find myself more at liberty to refer to those things which are open to public inspection, without overloading the work with engrav- ings.SECOND REPORT, 16’ [more or less, according to the violence of the in- flammatory action] is added to the mucous secre- tion. Accordingly, it assumes in one instance, [N0' 1], the appearance of concreted mucus ; in another, [N°‘4], the character of coagulable lymph. In contemplating these preparations, it must be particularly gratifying to reflect, that by the im- portant communicaton of Mr. Chevalier, we are authorized in recommending an operation which, in such cases, promises perfect relief. I have seen much of this disease, and have examined the parts in not less than fifteen cases ; it has not ap- peared to me that it was the violence of the inflam- mation which destroyed the patient, nor the irrita- tion directly from the inflamed membrane, but that the presence of this secreted membrane, acting like a foreign body, at the same time occasions spasms in the glottis, obstructs the passage and confines the mucus. But I am bound to state, in the strongest terms, that death is ultimately a con- sequence of effusion in the lungs, occasioned by the continued struggle and difficulty : for on open- ing the chest, I have uniformly found that the lungs did not collapse, and that the bronchi were full of mucus ; this corresponds with the symp- toms ; for, before death, the violence of the cough and struggle has given place to coldness and insen- sibility, with a pale swelling of the face and neck ;CASES OF DISEASES OP THE LARYNX, &C. if and when the child has fallen into this state, giving freedom to the trachea will be of no avail. XI. 1. M. 5. The next example is the larynx of a gentleman who died of Cynanche Lauyn- gea, and on whom the operation of laryngotomy was performed, without giving relief. I did not attend the patient, but received the trachea whilst still fresh. The membrane lining the larynx was swoln and inflamed; the whole membrane, which is now pale and shrivelled, was tumid, so that the sides of the passage were in contact. The friend who gave me the preparation, and who performed the operation, not aware of the rapid course of the disease, permitted it to run too far before he thought himself authorized to operate. The stage of redness of the face, and protuberance of the eyes, and of great struggle and difficulty of breathing, had been succeeded by a pale turges- cence of the face ; a certain degree of insensibility; and the head lay upon the shoulder. The opera- tion was therefore too late; effusion had already taken place in the lungs, and perhaps it may ap- pear in a latter part of this paper, that a different manner of operating from that employed here, viz. thrusting a tube into the larynx, might have had better success in relieving the windpipe. XI. 1. M. 6, 7, 8. These preparations ex- hibit the effect of a more chronic inflammation of the epiglottis and inner surface of the larynx, in VOL. i.—px. i. cSECOND REPORT. 18 the adult. The membrane is thickened, and the the surface covered with an irregular crust of coagulable lymph. Thus we already distinguish distinct diseases under the common term of Cynanche Laryn- gea. 1. The croup of children, N°* 1, 2, 3. The same disease in the adult, N0> 4. The acute inflammation of the larynx in the adult, N0’ 5, and the chronic or less acute inflammation of the same parts, N0> 6, 7, 8, 9*, 11> 12. XI. 1. M. 13, 14, 15. These three prepara- tions exhibit the chronic inflammation and ulcer of the larynx and trachea, in the disease which de- serves the name of Phthysis Laryngea. XI. I. M. 16. An ulcer within the Sacculus Laryngis. This preparation is very interesting, as it explains several others of the series. In passing through the physician’s ward my attention was arrested by the manner of breathing of one of the patients, and I took the following note : First note. Weymouth, a woman 55 years of age, has been ill of what she terms an * We must take care to distinguish facts from opinions. I believe, however, that these are examples of the inflammation of the epiglottis, described by Sir Everard Home. Also, by Dr. Robt. Watt, of Glasgow.CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 19 asthma and hoarseness, for three months. Having been a patient of a dispensary, she had her throat at one time blistered; on another occasion she had her throat and neck covered with pustules by the use of an ointment. She has at present a short cough, which occasions her to spit to the amount of half a pint during the night. Her difficulty of breath- ing is continual ; but at intervals she has a more violent paroxysm, and then she struggles to get at the window gasping for air. She speaks in a whisper, the sound being husky or reedy, and very feeble. There is pain in the throat, and in describing its seat she puts her finger on the thyroid cartilage—the pain is increased when this cartilage is pressed, and she swallows with difficulty. Second note. This woman died last night; I saw her an hour before she died: she did not seem in more distress than I had witnessed many times before in passing to the patient presently to be described, who was in the agonies of suffoca- tion. She was very pale, was anxious, but lay reclined upon her pillow with nothing of the stir or struggle, or gasping of her neighbour. I was surprised to find in the morning that she had died, and without any struggle to occasion parti- cular remark, from the nurses or patients in the ward. Dissection. The larynx around the chorda vocales was ulcerated, and strings of coagulable c 2SECOND REPORT. 20 lymph passed across the part; a bony portion of the thyroid cartilage was necrosed, and hung loose in the remains of what had been the sacculus laryn- gis, and such accretion of coagulable lymph had taken place, that the passage of the larynx was near- ly closed. Marks of chronic inflammation were upon the inside of the trachea; the lungs did not collapse when the chest was open : when their substance was cut into, much frothy mucus es- caped, and the fluid continued a long time to flow from the bronchi. Some tubercles were distin- guishable in the lungs, and the pericardium con- tained water. XI. 1. M. 17. This preparation exhibits an ulcer in the sacculus laryngis, very much resem- bling the former. The patient was worn out by a purulent cough. XI. 1. M. 18. An ulcer of the sacculus laryn- gis, which has eat deep with a sharp defined edge. It is like a venereal ulcer. XI. 1. M. 19. An ulcer of the glottis, sup- posed to be venereal. The circumstances of the case are very interesting. See p. 32. XI. 1. M. 10. Ulcer in the glottis, and ab- scesses around the thyroid cartilage. Laryngo- tomy was performed betwixt the thyroid and cri- coid cartilages. •CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 21 From these preparations it may be inferred, that ulceration of the glottis is a frequent complaint, and by the circumstances of cases presently to be detailed, it will be made evident that this is a fatal disease, if not remedied. Further, it appears that there are two kinds of ulcer, affecting this part: 1. A slow chronic ulcer, probably scrofulous. 2. And another venereal. These preparations exhibit the ravages of a disease which is much more frequent than practi- tioners seem to be aware of, a disease which deserves the name of Phthysis Laryngea, for it has all the consequences of true phthysis. The glan- dular structure of the trachea and larynx is the seat of this disease, the glands become enlarged, then ulcerate, and throw out purulent secretion. When the trachea only is affected, the disease is protracted; when it affects the larynx, it more rapidly exhausts the patient. This disease makes its attack gradually ; there is a wheezing and troublesome cough; a purulent, and sometimes a bloody sputum, succeeds, with painful spasm in the throat, frequent spasmodic cough, breathless- ness, and loss of voice. These primary symptoms are succeeded by pain in the chest, from the labour of respiration, and finally, the lungs are op- pressed by effusion *. * There is a preparation [belonging to another series, XIII. 2. M. 3.) which exhibits a singular example of a bone in theSECOND REPORT. 2* It is most worthy of remark, that these patients die from disease of trachea or larynx, in truth, from suffocation, without the nature of their disease being adverted to. It is considered as mere debility. The cause of this mistake is, that there is not the usual character of suffocation. A cold leucophlegmatic state, with paleness, insen- sibility, and langour, ushers in death ; instead of the violence and struggles which usually charac- terize suffocation. This however is not always the manner of death of such patients, of which the following is an example. SUFFOCATION FROM DISEASE OF THE LARYNX, TN WHICH THE ; Operation of ILargitgototni? toas performed. August 3d, 1815.—I was called up to the Hos- pital last night, to a patient of Dr. Latham’s, who throat, which proves to be the Os Ili/oides, dead and projecting through the pharynx. This woman was 35 years of age; she had been troubled with sore throat aud cough for sixteen weeks. For six weeks before her death she had au incessant cough, and expectorated a veryCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 23 was suffocating. I found a woman sitting up in bed, breathing with great difficulty, and with a noise which was heard over all that side of the house. She could speak in a whisper. I asked her the seat of her distress and difficulty of breathing; she put her fingers on each side of her throat, high up;—had she pain any where ? she put the tips of her fingers to the pit of her stomach, bending forward in a manner sufficiently expres- sive. I observed that there was great labour of the muscles of the chest; that her breath came whistling as through a reed, and that, when agi- tated, her breathing had a harsh sawing sound. She had been received into the Hospital in the morning, her neck was sore with blisters. Leeches had been applied, and the blood was still flowing. Of the history I could obtain nothing, but only that the difficulty of breathing had been increas- ing for three weeks; that it was progressively worse, with no intermission. I was impressed with the necessity of giving this woman imme- diate relief. She was exhausted and pale with suffering, anxiety, and watching ; and the respi- ratory machine was in such violent and incessant operation, that effusion into the lungs must soon great quantity of offensive matter. In this latter period she could not swallow solids, not even a bit of bread, but lived en- tirely on fluids; she died three days after delivery of a child at the seventh month. She breathed easily, and was supposed to die from excessive weakness and inanitionSECOND REPORT. 84 have taken place ; my fear was, that this had hap- pened already. Having prepared what variety of apparatus the time admitted of, I made an incision two inches in length, on the fore part of the throat ; she was sitting up, for she could not lie down, and the blood fell upon her breast, leaving the wound clear. I stopt and encouraged her; not without hopes that this effectual bleeding would be of service : and she did breathe with somewhat more ease. I now dissected on the fore part of the trachea, cutting very deep, and much blood flowed. At this time an appearance presented itself, which should be taken notice of, and if authors had written only after actual experience of opera- tion, it would have been pointedly observed. The sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles were powerfully in action during each inspiration; and they raised themselves into an appearance of two round columns, and by their starting forwards gave an unusual depth to the trachea. Every touch of the knife on the front of the trachea, brought a flow of blood, and I saw that it would be most inconvenient, if not dangerous, to open the trachea. Although I had cleared the trachea on the fore part, just below the isthmus of the thyroid gland, 1 did not choose to perforate here ; the breathing was rapid, and at each inspiration the muscles of the throat started out, and the trachea was drawn backward and downward, so that the variation inCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 25 depth of the trachea was not less than an inch in inspiration and expiration. This motion I fore- saw would baffle my endeavours to adapt tubes or other instruments to the perforation of the windpipe. I therefore enlarged the wound a very little upward, laid down the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and exposed the space betwixt the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. I then pushed a sharp bistoury into the membrane, which closes the interstice betwixt these cartilages. As soon as this was done, the air in expiration came forcibly and audibly out, spurting the secretion from the hole; nothing could more forcibly shew the ne- cessity of the incision. I turned the bistoury upwards and downwards, enlarging the slit as far as possible without cutting the cartilages. I next introduced a spatula, and turning it round, opened the slit ; immediately the harsh sawing sound of the air in the contracted glottis ceased, and the air played easily with a siffling sound through the wound. Very soon the woman relaxed all her exertions, and her eye-lids closed. I thought she had fainted or was dying ; but the poor exhausted creature had dro.pt into a sleep where she sat, relieved from the necessity of exertion and from the sense of suffocation, even the novelty of her situation did not prevent her from falling asleep. Having remained a very considerable time hold- ing the instrument in the opening of the larynx, I proceeded to execute my final purpose. I made a transverse slit in the membrane, and introducedSECOND REPORT. 26 the tube, being such as is commonly found in the shops, but the breathing was instantly stopt, a struggle commenced, and the tube was thrust out like a cork from a bottle. I saw this would not do, and I was forced to bend a catheter wire, so that the middle part of it lay in the wound, and kept the parts open, while the ends of the wire were bent round her neck, and tied by a ligature behind. I left her at two in the morning, the house surgeon and apothecary remaining in attendance. She slept calmly, supported by pillows : this sup- port being more required, from the precarious nature of the apparatus, than from the state of her suffering. 4th August. She breathes well, though not so softly ; much bloody mucus is expectorated through the wound. Further attempts to adopt a more secure apparatus were now made. I had the tube perforated with large holes to let the air pass freely through it in all directions ; but on intro- ducing it, it was still unsuitable, it did not give freedom to the respiration ; she forced me to desist, thrusting every thing from her: to let her breathe freely, I introduced the dressing forceps, and extending them, the lips of the opening were kept asunder, and she breathed again with com- posure.' The wire was again adjusted and introduced, and it had this advantage, that in introducing it,GASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 27 the air was not interrupted ; while every attempt Avith the tube gave obstruction to the breathing, and confined the mucus. 5th August. She has passed a good night; her pulse has fallen considerably ; her breathing is with less effort and less hurried. 7th August. The wire has hitherto done its business very well ; but now it is too sharp upon the side of the wound, and I have adopted a proper instrument. This instrument consists of two flat pieces of steel, connected at one end by a hinge, and by means of a screw passing through them near the hinge, the further extremities are separated; the extremities of the branches are averted a little, so that when introduced into the opening of the larynx they are not apt to fall out ; and being expanded by a turn of the screw, they open the Avound to a due degree, and by the same means the instrument is fixed ; it is very light, and requires no bandage round the neck : with this introduced she breathes very freely. 10f/i August. Yesterday she Avas breathing with difficulty: on going to her she held up her hands imploringly. I leant with my ear close to her lips, and could hear her say—wind, wind ! On looking into the wound I saw that the granu- lations had shot across, so as to diminish the aperture, I took out the instrument, and with aSECOND REPORT. 28 fine hook and scissors snipt off the granulations, which restored the free passage for the air, and again she breathed inaudibly. This morning she is better than I have seen her at any time. She sleeps with her head upon the pillow ; she eats raw eggs, milk, and tea; her face is pale but natural ; she breathes freely; there is not the slightest amendment in the original disease in the larynx, although the purulent and bloody expec- toration has ceased : now she brings up a pure mucus. 1 \ th August. She continues easy. She is thin and pale, which is the natural character of her visage, but she is very contented. When I saw her to day, my dresser had withdrawn the instru- ment, notwithstanding which she breathes with- out noise. I made him put his thumb upon the wound, and found that she could speak better than formerly. 12tK August. I withdrew the instrument to- day, and cut off two projecting granulations ; they projected so as to play in the wind, and make a noise as she breathed. 13th August. This morning I took out the in- strument, and said that in future she should do without it. On this I saw her in a great agita- tion, lifting her eyes and wringing her hands. I thought she was grateful for the relief; but, by theCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 29 nurses’ interpretation, I discovered that it was horror at the suffering she anticipated from the want of it. In the evening I found that the in- strument had not been taken out a few minutes before, she became restless and anxious to have it replaced. Just now, on coming to her, she makes me understand that she is breathing with great difficulty. I took out the instrument, and found adhering to it a mass of firm concreted mucus, which nearly closed the trachea. 18th August. After an absence of three days, on returning to town, I find my patient much better; the instrument is still in the wound ; she walks about the ward, holds her tea kettle on the fire, makes her tea, and is attentive to all her little comforts, which is in strong contrast with her for- mer wildness of manner. I closed the passage to-day, and made her try to breathe through her mouth: she forced the air through her mouth, but with such exertion, that she would have suffocated in five minutes, had she not had the artificial passage. 21,5* August. This woman’s original complaint is not essentially better, and all our endeavours will be useless. This afternoon she was nearly suffocated, but she is again breathing easily: these occasional obstructions are owing to the quantity of mucous secretion which plugs up the trachea ; the air drawn through the natural pas-SECOND REPORT. JO sages of the nostrils and the mouth comes softened into the windpipe : but here it is drawn into the opening so directly and so dry, that it inspissates and hardens the mucus. 24tli August. She looks still better ; her face natural ; putting my finger on the wound, I bade her blow out a candle, which, after a trial or two, she did with much delight. The granulations being troublesome, a new instrument is intro- duced, through which she breathes softly : it is a curious exhibition to observe a patient let fall a few drops of water into the windpipe, in order to breathe more freely ! but this confirms my remark that the dryness of the air distresses her. She wraps a little lint about the probe, dips it into water, and then plays it in the wound, thrusting it into the windpipe, that the water may drop into the tube, and facilitate the expectoration of mucus. 28th August. Finding no amendment in the disease, and aware that this state could not con- tinue, I passed a bougie from the wound upwards into the glottis ; she could not bear it an instant, and it produced a violent fit of coughing. I thought of introducing an elastic tube from the mouth into the trachea, but as I suspected, the bougie could not be borne for an instant. Her danger is still from an accumulated load of mucus. A funnel having been placed inverted over theCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 31 wound, I have made her breathe through an inhaler, which has given much relief. This poor woman is dead, after living seven weeks breathing through the artificial opening; for the last two or three days there has been more irritability of constitution and temper exhibited. She has complained much of want of breath, and shown unusual impatience. Last night she was seized with great difficulty of breathing, ran frantic about the ward, lay or fell down upon the floor, and with much violence tore the instrument from her throat, and was suffocated. Her usual careful attendants, Mr. Dehane and Mr. Heath, were called from their beds, and at- tempted to restore her by the apparatus of the Humane Society, but she was dead. The larynx of this woman is preserved, and ■ already enumerated. XT. 1. M. 10. A loose spongy granulation sprung from the sacculus laryngis of the left side, and lay completely closing the chink of the glottis ; beneath this there was a deep ulcer; and within the thyroid cartilage were several ulcers ; on both lateral faces of the thyroid cartilage there were abscesses, these abscesses communicated with the ulcers within, the centre part of the cartilage on both sides, being destroyed by absorption. The lungs were free from disease, but having been blown into in the attempt to recover the woman, I could not form a just estimate of their condition.SECOND REPORT. 32 SECOND CASE OF SUFFOCATION, vaoyt SJIccr of tt)t Mary Ann Mellon. Mr. Heath, our apothecary, the same intelligent gentleman who so kindly at- tended the last patient, heard this unfortunate girl in the street, calling to her companion, or rather attempting to do so. He was familiar with the peculiar husky sound, and by that, knowing her condition, he spoke to her, and desired her to come to the Hospital. Some days afterwards she took his advice. On the 6th of March she came to the Hospital, and was seen by Dr. Southey. On the 12th of the same month she returned, and was taken into the house. The day before this she was walking in the streets, at her usual pace. She walked to the Hospital, carrying her bundle; in going up stairs she stopt to recover breath ; she was full of anxi- ous inquiries, and said that she must surely die. Half an hour after coming into the Hospital, and sitting on her bed, she fell suddenly back, and died without a struggle. The apothecary and house-surgeon were imme- diately called. They perforated the larynx, and introduced the pipe of the apparatus of the Hu- mane Society, but their efforts were unavailing.CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 33 It was remarked, that when the incision was made into the larynx, the air rushed out with great viol- ence from the hole. . On Dissection it was found, that the epiglottis was destroyed by ulceration, and there was a deep foul ulcer within the false glottis. [XI. 1. B. 37.] On inquiring into this girl’s condition, her friends said that her sore throat began about fifteen months ago, like a quinsy ; that it was not treated as a venereal sore throat; that before this she could sing, but never afterwards. She had a hacking cough, and expectorated a great deal. Further, it appeared that she had been in the Lock Hospital six months, six years ago ; a year after this she had been in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; and eighteen months ago she was in the Middlesex Hospital ; and lastly, she was under the physi- cians in St. George’s Hospital, about six months before her death. If I had had an opportunity of performing laryngotomy in this case, I would have done it, and then have proceeded as in the following in- stance. VOL. i. PT. i. D \second REPORT. out the sound. This 1 imagine to be produced by 34- THIRD CASE OF DISEASE OF THE LARYNX. Threatened Suffocation averted. Fanny Murray, set. 25, Regent’s Ward. A few days ago Dr. Southey sent this girl, then ail out-patient, to be examined, and as a case de- serving to be watched. I immediately recognised the symptoms in the case of Mellon. She spoke in a whisper scarcely audible, and with great effort; when desiring to be heard, she made an effort like a cough; I put my finger into the glottis, and felt it rough. April 18th. I was requested by Dr. Southey to visit his patient. She has been brought into the Hospital very unwillingly, and is in imminent danger of suffocation. Her sense of danger has led her to the Hospital. Since Christmas she has been ill ; she was at that time attacked with cold and sore-throat, and from the beginning she could speak only in a whisper. Her voice has never returned, and at present her whispers are scarcely audible. She coughs in a very singular manner; she says it is an inward cough ; it is the exertion of coughing with-CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 35 the want of action in the slit of the glottis, by which the air should be somewhat impeded, and thereby more forcibly sent through the glottis. She has pain at the pit of her stomach and in the loins, which I attribute to the exertion and fatigue of coughing. For this three nights she has not been able to lie down in bed. She expectorates a great deal: it is mucus and pus. Pulse 63, br. 42 in the minute. Her breathing has a harsh sawing- sound. Evening of the 18th. The Hospital attendants becoming alarmed at the condition of this woman, I was sent for at li o’clock. She was sitting up in bed, breathing with much difficulty ; but her countenance was of a red colour, the violence of the fit had subsided, and the blueness had been succeeded by redness and fullness. Dr. Southey came in. We wished to see her swallow : she tried a little broth ; much of it went into the wind- pipe, and she had a great struggle in recovering. We concluded that the epiglottis was eaten away by ulceration. I proposed mercurial fumigation, but my col- league did not expect benefit from it, as the pati- ent had been three weeks under salivation without the slightest advantage. Having ascertained, by putting my finger over the root of the tongue into the glottis, that it was rough and irregular with ulceration, I proposed to touch the surface with d 236 SECOND REPORT. the argentum nitratum. It was considered hazard- ous, but something was necessary, and I was con- fident that the application would allay irrita- tion. I made a small pad of lint, and attached it to the ring of a catheter wire, and bent the wire so as to pass over the root of the tongue and epiglottis ; I dipped the lint in a solution of twenty grains of the caustic to half an ounce of water, and touched the glottis with it in this manner. With the fin- gers of my left hand I pressed down the tongue, and stretched the forefinger over the epiglottis, then directing the wire along my finger, I removed the point of the finger from the glottis, and intro- duced the pad of lint into the opening, and pressed it with my finger. On withdrawing the lint, instead of coughing she began to speak more audibly than usual, and had neither cough nor spasm from this rough ope- ration. I repeated the application four times, and her breathing was sensibly better when I left her. . 19^. This morning, at the visit, I found her considerably better. I touched the chink of the glottis again with the same solutions. I recom- mended issues to be made on the sides of the throat. 20th. The issues not made. Last night it wasCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &TC. 37 reported to me that she was not so well, but this morning I find her remarkably better. I again touched the glottis with the solution of caustic, notwithstanding she complains of soreness of the mouth from the former applications ; it had the same good effect, improving her breathing as for- merly. A pill of belladonna is ordered, and she is to smoke the stramonium : she is to put her feet and legs in the nitro-muriatic bath twice a day. 22d. She has had the acid bath to her feet seve- ral times, and has been twice in the sliper bath, with the acid more diluted, and the fluid reaching to her loins. She speaks with more force, coughs less. Still she does not swallow better. 26tli. At Dr. Southey’s request I again touched the glottis with the caustic solution. I applied it as strong as it could be made. The girl is fright- ened, but better. 99th. This girl is remarkably better; she has taken the bath twice a day; her gums are sore, swollen, and of a dark red colour. Her counten- ance is much amended; she breathes without noise, and can swallow better than she did. May 4tli. She can swallow better; she breathes easily: but she is full of complaints and uneasi- ness. Her mouth and throat are much inflamed, the gums dark, coloured, and spongy.SECOND REPORT. 3S She is to take the nitro-muriatic bath every se- cond night. 5th. The bath to be altogether omitted. Dr. Scott visited this patient; he never saw the mouth so sore from the operation of this remedy. 30th. I examined this girl yesterday, and find her almost well. She says that she has not been so well for years as she now finds herself. Her countenance is indeed that of health. In swallow- ing, she takes five or six draughts in rapid succes- sion ; but when she swallows leisurely a single mouthful, as I made her do to-day, she does it without coughing. Some weeks after this Report, Fanny Murray placed herself in the way of the surgeon’s round, and gave me her thanks in a very eloquent manner, to the amusement of the pupils; and next day she took an unceremonious leave of the Hospital*. * Although her physician had watched her with the most hu- mane attention, my desire of witnessing the effects of the new remedy had won upon the girl’s gratitude.CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 39 AN ULCER OF THE THROAT, WHICH OPENED THE Internal dtarotia Artery The last preparation of the series of ulcers of the glottis may be noticed as emphatically closing this account, and sufficiently exposing the danger of disease here. I received this specimen from Mr. Golden of Maidenhead. In the winter, 1S03, a woman, thirty-five years of age, was admitted into the Hospital; she was spitting blood, and coughing in a manner that left no doubt of the case being liemoptoe. She died three hours after being admitted. In dissecting, to display the anatomy of the neck, Mr. Golden discovered that the internal carotid artery communicated with an ulcer of the throat. The preparation exhibits a very deep and ragged ulcer, making an irregular cavity, which communicates with the throat by an opening at the root of the epiglottis, and with the internal carotid artery, at the place it bends in to hide itself by the side of the throat. These facts drawn from morbid anatomy, and these cases, will perhaps lead my reader to con- clude with me, that venereal ulceration of the larynx is a more frequent and alarming symptomSECOND REPORT. 40 than is generally believed. Further examples of sudden death, from the same cause, in those of a higher rank might be given, but I do not feel my- self at liberty to make the statement. My reader will have guessed upon what analogy I proceeded in applying the caustic to the sore within the chink of the glottis. — 1. The relief from the solution in common sores: 2. the relief in ulcers of the cor- nea: 3. the relief from the application of caustic to irritable spots of the urethra. Of the use of the nitro-muriatic bath I shall hereafter have occasion to speak; the fact is here forcibly enough announced, that it is a powerful agent; and of the other means to be employed in disease of the larynx, see the case of Nichols. SYMPTOMS OF * ULCER IN THE GLOTTIS, IMITATED IN HU’flteria. When I delivered my clinical lecture on the ulcer of the glottis, I took occasion to draw the attention of the students to the following case, in the way of precaution, and in order to lead them to make accurate distinctions of diseases. It may be useful to my younger readers.CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 41 22d March. “ Last night one of the gentlemen of the Hospital came to me with great urgency, requesting me to come up quickly to the Hospital, as there was a young woman suffocating. As we had lost a young woman by suffocation only the week before, I partook of the gentlemen’s anxiety. “ I found a young woman, about one-and- twenty, lying in a state of torpor, with her mouth open, and breathing with a crowing sound as in croup, and appearing indeed as if she 'would suffer instant suffocation. “ The difficulty was in drawing the breath, and it exactly resembled the breathing in inflammatory, croup; and the glottis appeared strictured in some way, for the air was evidently impeded in a re- stricted orifice. For a moment I thought an ope- ration would be required. But when I more at- tentively observed the manner in which the girl lay, reclined on her back, with the countenance of a natural colour, and the vermilion in her lips ; when I found that she was not quite sensible, and that there was no catch or struggle of the muscles of the chest, I saw that it was a hysterical affec- tion, and on making the pupils refer to the physi- cians’ books, we found that she had been treated as for a spasmodic disease. “ Next morning I visited her more from curio- sity than the idea that she wanted my assistance. Her difficulty of breathing had quite left her, but42 SECOND REPORT. she could not pass a drop of urine. The spas- modic affection of the muscles of the glottis had shifted to the neck of the bladder. “ This, gentlemen, may remind you of what Sydenham has said, that there is no character of disease which hysteria will not occasionally as- sume. And Jet it be to you an example of the necessity of guarding your judgment from the bias of two recent impressions. You have been so im- pressed with the late occurrences, that you have made a case of imminent danger out of the casual symptom of an hysterical girl I ' « Here I should have added a case of aneurism pressing upon the bifurcation of the trachea, be- cause the symptoms resembled those of the c//- nanche trachealis chronica; but upon the whole, the facts fall to be arranged under another report. I owe the valuable preparation and the case to my colleague, Dr. Latham, XIII. M. 21. Before entering critically on the consideration of the operation of laryngotomy, I shall present some short observations, although in an insulated man- ner, on the wounds of the trachea and larynx. XI. 1. B. 40. The larynx of a suicide. This * This young woman was also under my colleague, Dr. Southey, and presented altogether an interesting case. She was dismissed cured*CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 43 young man made six cuts on the fore part of the larynx: so many notches are seen upon the car- tilages. The arteries have been injected, and all the branches are entire ; notwithstanding that none even of the considerable branches of the thy- roid artery are cut, yet he bled in secret for three hours and died of hcemorrhage. There are two things in this case worthy of no- tice. 1. It ought to be recollected that in all ope- rations of the fore part of the neck, the thyroid gland ought to be avoided ; for such is the activity of its vessels, that when touched with the knife it bleeds with surprising activity. 2. In the next place, surgeons, and I believe many anatomists also, are ignorant of the superior lobe of the thyroid gland. This lobe certainly is not always to be met with, but it exists so frequently as to make it an object, in operation. This lobe is at- tached to the anterior and lateral part of the gland, and stretches upwards on the side and fore part of the cyrcoid cartilage. It was this part of the thy- roid gland which was cut and notched in this in- stance, and from it this great quantity of blood flowed. Since I have been drawn to mention this lobe of the thyroid gland, I may take notice that there is a muscle (which I believe is not described) to be met with here. It descends from the os hyoides, and expands upon the great lobe of the thyroid gland. I have a preparation before me, which by theSECOND REPORT. 44 kindness of my colleague, Mr. Cartwright, I have an opportunity of placing in this series. A young- woman in phrensy plunged a penknife into her throat. The point of the knife pierced the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, so that it entered at the union of the chorda yocales. Yet it is worthy of notice that she died not in consequence of the inflammation and irritation from the wound. She was suffocated at the distance of some months by the granulations which arose from the edge of the wound, and which filled up the passage of the glottis. This is a circumstance of great interest, and in the case of laryngotomy which I have de- tailed, it will be seen how much the granulations*- endangered the patient’s life. In the present ex- ample we have a simple wound of the larynx where there was no disease, finally causing suffo- cation after the patient was enabled to go about her usual occupations, and at the distance of some months from the infliction of the wound. This instance of death by suffocation in the suicide, re- minds me of the necessity of performing the opera- tion of laryngotomy or bronchotomy on those who have cut their throats, as well as in some cases where they have perpetrated the act by firing a pistol into the mouth. Within these few months a man was brought into the Middlesex Hospital who had cut his throat. There were times when he suffered vio- lently from difficulty of breathing, and then a flap- ping of something in the throat could be heard..CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 45 He died ; and it was discovered that the knife had gone so critically that it divided one of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the portion hung by the membrane so as to vibrate in the chink of the glottis like a pea in a cat-call: and acting as a fo- reign body caught in the rima glottidis, it occa- sioned suffocation ; nor is this a singular occur- rence. Another instance of death from a wound of the trachea occurred in the Middlesex Hospital, which is very interesting, as it shews the consequences of dividing the cartilages of the trachea. A young woman resolving to destroy herself pushed a pen- knife into the fore part of her throat, and drew it downwards, cutting through five of the rings of the trachea. She survived the first effects of this wound—but was suffocated by the retraction of the cut edges of the cartilages, and the swelling of the inner membrane, which thereby diminished the capacity of the tube. This patient was also under Mr. Cartwright’s care, and by his kindness the preparation is before me. REMARKS ON THE (Operation of fiatimgotomp. W e may perceive that the occasions for opening the larynx or trachea are very frequent; and that46 SECOND REPORT. the time of affording relief is lost by the surgeon entertaining too formidable a notion of the opera- tion. I therefore conceive it to be of the first consequence to make this operation simple, and to divest it of its terrors, in order that it may be had recourse to in good time to be of use. For the most part it requires only a small scalpel to cut into the membraneous space betwixt the thyroid and cyrcoid cartilages. And having slit up the membrane, substituting the handle for the point of the knife, and turning it round so as to open the slit, immediately the patient breathes freely. There is here nothing to alarm the most timid operator. No great turgid veins are opened* he is above the thyroid gland, and above the anas- tomosing branch of the thyroid arteries. The part is strongly marked by the prominence of the thyroid cartilage above, and the ring of the cyrcoid cartilage below. If the occasion be temporary a simple .slit of the membrane will be found sufficient. If necessary a transverse cut will afford any degree of opening. If a round hole be desired the four corners left by the incisions may be snipt off, and then there is sufficient gap ! or such an instrument as I have used may be introduced. I see it observed in the last volume of the Transactions of the Medico-chirurgical Society, that in my operation I was obliged to enlarge the opening. A further incision was made after the woman had breathed through the opening for sixCASES OF DISEASES OF TIIE LARYNX, &C. 47 weeks ; and what is more it was insufficient when done : for as experience proved, the enlargement of the opening did not relieve her distress ; the diffi- culty proceeded from another cause, the progress of the disease itself. Objections are also made by Mr. Lawrence to the instruments which I employed. But my pa- tient was often by accident reduced to the state of Hannah May, p. 228, vol. 6, of the same Trans- actions ; and would have died, but she was im- mediately relieved by the introduction of the in- strument, and was most grateful for the relief. That the operation ought to be performed be- twixt the cartilages in cases of threatened suffoca- tion from husk of fruit, cherry stones, and the like, drawn into the glottis, is obvious both because it gives immediate freedom to the respiration, and because it permits us to extract the body, or to push it up into the mouth. Whatever other part of the throat we cut upon much blood must flow. If we cut through the cyrcoid cartilage, we come upon a branch of the thyroid artery, and perhaps the superior lobe of the thyroid gland ; a very little lower we cut upon the isthmus of the thyroid gland, which pours out blood like an artery, but cannot be secured by a ligature like an artery. If we cut on the fore part of the trachea further down than the thyroid gland, we are confined in a narrow space. The trachea is deep, and the thy- roid veins as they descend are found so turgid,SECOND REPORT. 48 owing to the difficult respiration, that they bleed very freely. The bleeding makes the operation bustling instead of being done quietly ; and there is considerable danger in opening the trachea while the bleeding continues, lest it fall into the trachea, and with the accumulated mucus suffocate the patient. I have objections to cutting out a portion of the cartilage, because it commits more injury to the parts than appears to me necessary, and be- cause it makes a hole which it requires a process of granulation to fill up, and especially, because it affords a greater facility for the granulations to project into the larynx, and to obstruct the canal. Anatomy and experiment give us very distinctly the great principle to be attended to in these dis- eases of the larynx. All obstructions have a spas- modic character; coming in paroxysms, whether the cause be irritation or mechanical pressure. An aneurism of the carotid, or a disease of the thyroid gland, or a foreign body sticking in the pharynx or larynx, is attended with a difficulty of breathing, which returns after intervals of ease, betraying its source to be an excited muscular ac- tion, a contraction of the muscles of the arytenoid cartilages. These muscles, by their operation on the chordce vocales, close the rima glottidis, and impede the issue of the air. By the operation of laryngotomy, or tracheotomy, the air gets free passage, but the mischief remains: the acute andCASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 49 peculiar sensibility enjoyed by the glottis, not only governs the muscles of the glottis, but also combines into action the whole muscles of respira- tion, and affects the lungs. Thus, though we give freedom to the trachea, if the cause of irrita- tion remains; though the patient be saved for the time there is an influence, which, by continuing to disturb the office of the lungs, will ultimately destroy the patient. All that can be expected from bronchotomy is a temporary relief: if the dis- ease continues, I think the patient must ultimately fall a sacrifice, in whatever manner the opening may be made. It has a natural disposition to close, and the means of opposing that disposition must produce irritation. My incision through the inte- guments was very large; yet in six days it began to contract, and granulations sprung out from the sides, which it was necessary to cut off again and again. Besides, the cut edge of the cartilage itself will, if not soon consolidated, throw out granula- tions, which may prove still more destructive, by diminishing the passage of the trachea. These Observations may he summed up in the following Queries. 1. Are there not diseases of the larynx which have, in these latter periods, all the characters of pure pulmonic affections ? VOL. I. PT. I. E50 SECOND REPORT. 2. Are we enough aware of that progress of suffocation, in which the last train of symptoms, and the quiet manner of death, afford no indica- tion of the nature of the disease, yet where spas- modic stricture of the glottis is the real, though the remote, cause of death ? 3. Have surgeons always attended to the proper time for performing bronchotomy, and have they not thought of relieving the trachea, when already the lungs were irretrievably oppressed with mucus in the bronchi, and effusion in their cellular tex- ture ? 4. Has not the introduction of a tube into the larynx or trachea, sometimes defeated the object of the operation ? >5. Are practitioners sufficiently aware, that the operation may be done with a lancet and the end of a tea-spoon, and in circumstances when the more complicated apparatus of a tube will cause suffocation ? 6. In cutting out a portion of the larynx, or cutting the rings of the trachea, have we duly considered the danger of granulations projecting from the cut edge of the cartilage into the tube; or of the cartilages being curled or drawn in so as to diminish the calibre of the tube ?CASES OF DISEASES OF THE LARYNX, &C. 51 7. By one example it is proved, that a patient may breathe through an artificial passage for six weeks. But has not this wound, like all others, a disposition to heal? and will not the necessary counteraction of this tendency, by whatever means, produce irritation? Is not the operation therefore only a mode of giving temporary relief ? S. Since the exquisite sensibility of the glottis is bestowed, not only to excite the muscles of the arytenoid cartilages, and to close the glottis, but also to influence the lungs and to draw the respi- ratory muscles into action, may not a continual excitement of the glottis at last produce effusion in the lungs, although the windpipe be free for the transmission of air? e 2r 5s ] THIRD REPORT. CASES lUljavpttT antr ©e^opfjagu^ WITH OBSERVATIONS. It would be a natural arrangement to class the diseases of the pharynx and oesophagus under the head of the alimentary canal; and perhaps this might conduce to the better illustration of the principles of pathology. But in my collection I have found it necessary to class together the na- tural and morbid anatomy of the neck; and when, as now’, we consider the subject with a view to sur- gical practice, the pharynx and oesophagus stand closely related to the subject of the foregoing re- port on the diseases and wounds of the larynx. My reader may, perhaps, have the same difficulty in arranging the following case, that I myself, during the progress of the complaint, had in un- derstanding to which division it should belong.53 CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. CASE OF SCIRRHOUS CONTRACTION OF THE pSarpny. May 3d, 1816. Jane Nichols, aged 35. This woman was in the Hospital three weeks ago, and left it on some domestic occurrence. She is worse, and has returned in expectation of the same relief she formerly experienced. Her complaint was an obstruction to swallowing, attended with much pain during the effort, and a tumor of a bony firmness could be felt projecting from the larynx into the bag of the pharynx. Leeches were ap- plied, and repeated blisters on the sides of her throat. She had a gentle vomit, and a course of the Plummer’s pill. Under this course of treat- ment there was a very considerable amendment. Neither formerly nor now can this woman give any intelligible account of the cause or beginning of this complaint. She thinks that she must have hurt her throat in swallowing ; but there is no fur- ther evidence of this than the pain she has expe- rienced in swallowing. She is married, has a fa- mily, and is decent in her appearance. At present she complains of great difficulty of swallowing, and of something rising from her54 THIRD REPORT. throat towards the ear and back of the head. But she speaks very ignorantly, desiring to have some- thing to bring down the substance to her throat, so as to give her ease. I have made her attempt to swallow a little warm milk; she made great efforts to get over a little, pressing her hands against her ears expres- sive of great pain. This pain is obviously from the distention of the pharynx, and the consequent affection of the Eustachean tubes; for, she says, the pain flies to her ears. But as the left ear is most affected, and as the disease is felt most dis- tinctly upon the left side of the pharynx, we may conclude that it is the pressure against the dis- eased part w hich communicates pain to the ear. When I put my finger into her throat I can dis- tinctly feel the epiglottis, and pushing the finger beyond this I can distinguish the left side of the false glottis to be irregular and tuberculated; but I think not ulcerated. Still further back I can feel a tumor projecting into the pharynx, having its root on the back part of the larynx. Finding so much disease of the pharynx, and that the patient was weak from defect of nourish- ment, I thought of introducing a tube into the oesophagus, so that she might be fed without pro- ducing the irritation consequent on the frequent action of swallowing. But on attempting the in- troduction of the tube, I found that it was ob- structed, and that it gave too much pain and irri- tation to answer my intentions.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 55 Ordered that six leeches be immediately applied to the neck, and after them a blister to both sides of the throat alternately. To-morrow evening six or four leeches to. be applied as may then seem best, and the blister to be repeated. She is to smoke the stramonium. Her bowels to be opened by the house mixture, and the Plummer’s pill to be given at night. May 10th. She is considerably worse. She swallows with more difficulty and pain. The fluid she tries to swallow comes back by the nose, and during the attempt the pain shoots violently into her ears. The stramonium increases the se- cretion from the mouth, but she thinks it also in- creased the pain of the throat. It has been omitted. Calomel and white sugar have been rubbed into the sides of the pharynx. With the forefinger of the left hand I press down the tongue and pull it forward, and wetting the finger of the right hand, and touching a powder of equal parts of sugar and calomel, I push it back into the throat, and rub it into the rough diseased surface. This has made her spit, and she is so sensible of the benefit which she derives from this practice, that she will not permit me to pass through the ward without entreaties to renew the operation. Yet I am not sure that this application is doing more than taking off the mor- bid irritation from the part. 29t/i. The calomel having made her mouth sore,56 THIRD REPOltT. without producing permanent amendment, it was omitted. On each side of the throat, near the up- per horn of the thyroid cartilage, a small issue has been made by caustic. Four hours after the ap- plication, there was an alarming attack of spasm . in the throat which threatened suffocation. 31s/. By the application of the cold solution to her neck, and an opiate draught, she was relieved ; but being in the Hospital to-night, she sent for me to urge her great distress, and the necessity of having relief. I find her breathing remarkably affected. She complains of pain in the scorbiculus cordis. She draws her breath with a stridulous sound. I should be inclined to sajr that the sound is more indicative of a spasmodic or muscular stricture than of tightness from swelling of the membrane. On examining with the finger in the throat, I think the tumor of the glottis is sensi- bly increased. Leeches to be applied to the neck. The head and neck to be kept cool. An expec- torant mixture of squills and gum ammoniac is ordered, as there is a deficiency of secretion about the throat. 5lh of June. She says her swallowing is worse since the application of the caustics. Her breath- ing is short. She cannot lie down. There are frequent returns of the spasms, with rattling of secretion in the throat.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 57 7th. This woman is much better to-night. I find her walking about the ward. Her voice no longer a whisper, but with the natural strength and reverberation of the voice. She swallows with more ease ; and, on the whole, expresses herself very much relieved, and as enjoying an unusual comfortable feeling. l6th. Being asked to compare her present state with what she formerly suffered, declares herself much better. She breathes easily. When she attempts to swallow milk, I observe that she makes many gulps or efforts before she can succeed in forcing it into the oesophagus. 23d. The issues are dressed with the blistering ointment, and kept very active. She is sensible of the relief they have afforded her. She is much better in all respects, and has undoubtedly been greatly benefited by the issues. 12th of July. Although relieved, she now makes no improvement. The alterative course has been persevered in. The issues have been kept active, and the oesophagus bougie passed with great care twice a week. Although by this means the swal- lowing is improved, and she has been able to take more regular nourishment, yet the trachea seems more affected. 16th. After being so long relieved, she has fallen58 THIRD REPORT. into a much worse condition. When I introduce my finger, I feel the tumor larger, harder, and more irregular. Her distress is more in breathing than in swallowing. No effort of mine can save her long. The passage into the stomach I could, perhaps, keep open, but the disease is making pro- gress towards the glottis, and this I have no means of counteracting. She cannot lie down. She breathes with difficulty ; and it has been well ob- served by one of the pupils, that she does not breathe with the sound of debility and increased secretion of the throat, as one near her end, but more as if the air was drawn through a restricted passage. True, there is no rattle of secretion, but a siffling sound of the breath. She has requested to have a blister put to the pit of her stomach. She thinks it will ease the pain there ; but that pain is from the labour of respiration, and cannot be so relieved. Afternoon. The cough is frequent, and throws her into deliquium. Her countenance, long very thin, is now full of anxiety and great suffer- ing. It indicates that she cannot long survive, but must sink from imperfect nourishment, and the labour of impeded respiration. 17th. Respiration 26. Pulse 120, very irregular, weak, and small. 18 th. Died at six in the evening.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &c. ,59 On Dissection it was found, that the disease had its seat in the membrane of the pharynx, and from thence had spread to the oesophagus, on one side, and the larynx on the other. Scirrhous tu- mors of great firmness and whiteness, so studded the pharynx and beginning of the oesophagus, as to occupy and nearly close that part of the tube ; one or two smaller white masses further down, betrayed a general disposition of the membrane. Where the membrane was reflected over the glottis into the trachea, it was found much thickened, white, and dense. And on looking through the larynx from below, two white tumors were seen project- ing from the sides of the tube : these left a trian- gular opening so small, that it was wonderful this poor woman could breathe so long. The lym- phatic glands on the side of the throat had par- taken of the disease, and an abscess, with firm scirrhous Avails, had formed in one of the lobes of the thyroid gland. The parts are numbered XIII. 2. M. 13. PREPARATIONS IN THE COLLECTION, Illustrative of the same Subject. In the Collection, XIII. 2. M. distinguishes the specimens of disease in the pharynx and oesophagus. The thirteenth number of the series belongs to the last case.60 THIRD REPORT. XIII. 2. M. 4. Is a preparation exhibiting on one side a morbid thickening of the pharynx, with a degree of stricture at the commencement of the oesophagus; on the other, a large ulcer of the trachea with lymph on the larynx. XIII. 2. M. 5. A preparation similar to the oesophagus of the last, presented by my friend Mr. Brodie. XI. 1. M. 13. Exhibits the membrane of the pharynx thickened, with a degree of stricture ; the trachea and larynx are rough with ulceration. XIII. 2. M. 9. An example of scirrhous ulce- ration of the oesophagus. The disease occurs in this instance opposite the division of the trachea. XIII. 2. M. 12. The oesophagus having soft pendulous tumors, growing from its inner surface. This preparation is engraved. Plate III. XIII. 2. M. 11. The oesophagus obstructed by a tumor which has formed within its coats. XIII. 2. M. 3. Example of obstruction to swallowing, from a singular cause : an ulcer of the pharynx has laid bare the os hyoides, so that the horn of the bone projects into the pharynx. XIII. 2. M. 2. Through the pharynx a hole isCASES OF DISEASED PHAItYNX, &C. 61 made by ulceration, which gave exit to the matter of an abscess, connected with the vertebrae of the neck .* XIII. 2. M. 10. The thyroid gland being scirr- hous, and enlarged, has pressed upon the lower part of the pharynx, so as to obstruct the tube. XIII. 2. M. 14. An abscess on the thvroid */ cartilage, which communicates with the pharynx. iirnurfcs on tfjr foregoing ©Tnmpleo. The Whole extent of the alimentary canal is subject to such diseases as I have here described, but it is only in the pharynx or oesophagus, or in the rectum, that they become interesting to the surgeon. The case of Nichols will convince you of the dreadful sufferings of the patients under these diseases, and the catalogue I have made will inform you of their variety. The disease of Nichols was an exact parallel with the scirrho-contracted rectum, when it is extended to the neck of the bladder [of which ex- amples will be given hereafter]. Instead of the difficulty of excluding the faeces, you have here the difficulty of swallowing: and for the spasms and obstruction of the neck of the bladder, there is * See further, under the head of Injuries of the Spine.62 THIRD REPORT. here the spasms of the glottis, and the impediment to respiration. It is a disease to which the glandular structure of the tube exposes it, and, as the glandular struc- ture prevails most at the extremities of the canal, and as both the pharynx and rectum are more subject to injury than the other portions of the tube, so this disease most frequently occurs in those parts. The scirrhous thickening of the coats of the pharynx produces so great a change, that they become incapable either of contraction or of re- laxation. Although there be no stricture of the tube, it becomes incapable of transmitting the food into the stomach. In such a case as that, XIII. 2. M. 9. where the scirrhous ulceration has made the oesophagus much more capacious than natural, yet the continuity of the muscular action, by which the food is transmitted to the stomach, is interrupted, and a disease very different from stricture resembles it in the most essential circum- stance—the incapacity of swallowing. The scirrhous thickening of the pharynx or oesophagus, may certainly be much relieved by the use of the bougie, and frequent application of leeches to the side of the throat. The issue in the sides of the throat, and the bougies, will effect a cure where there is a mere thickening by com- mon inflammation or scrofulous action. But where the disease, as in Nichols, is of a cancerous dis- position, the relief must be very transitory. You will not have failed to remark, that al- though the issues gave much relief in the end, yetCASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 63 in their first application, and on the rising of the inflammation, they occasioned violent spasms in the muscles of the glottis. In this we see another point of analogy betwixt the throat and neck of the bladder, for by the severe application of caustic to the urethra, we have with the rising in- flammation, spasm in the bladder, and inability to make water. And, independently of the effect of the issues, or any other application, you must have observed that there was a singular alternation of the affection of the pharynx and of the trachea, for at one time the swallowing was relieved, and the breathing worse : and when deglutition was performed with most pain, the breathing was easier. These changes serve to shew you how much of spasm there is in the affection of these parts, even when the disease is of a permanent and unchangeable nature. We are apt sometimes to increase the difficulty of breathing and of swallowing by the very means we take to allay it. I was requested to come down to a surgeon a few miles in the country. He had written a very few emphatic words, declaring him- self suffocating, and desiring me to bring down the instruments for bronchotomy. I found him lying in bed with an inflammatory sore throat, with a blister on each side of the neck, and his head wrapt in flannel. He breathed with exceed- ing difficulty. His face was tinged, he was in a high fever, and exceedingly alarmed. The rising of the blisters, his position, and the heat, had so driven the blood to the head, that I64 THIRD REPORT. really thought he might have suffocated. But by lifting him up, and throwing off the covering from his head and neck, and sponging his face and neck with vinegar and water, and assuring him there was no danger, his breathing immediately became easy, and there was no longer thoughts of opening the wind-pipe. I have repeatedly seen this in- crease of arterial action from the application of a blister to the throat ; and we have just seen the same effect take place from the application of caus- tics in the case of Nichols. There is another circumstance which deserves my reader’s attention, that is, the state of preg- nancy and labour : for the exertion during the la- bour pains, sends the blood with such force to the head, that if there be any cause of difficult respira- tion, it will be greatly aggravated at such a time. A PRETERNATURAL BAG, dFovinflr t)i> tijr iilcmtiranr of ttjc isHjarimy, WHICH IMPEDED THE INTRODUCTION OF THE BOUGIE. A considerable time ago a gentleman called to consult me about a disease in his throat, which gave him great uneasiness, and occasioned diffi- culty of swallowing. In the course of conversa- tion I found his anxious hopes rested on my beingCASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 65 able to pass a bougie into his stomach, by which he said he was always relieved of his uneasy sen- sations, and I could learn from him, that some ineffectual attempts had been lately made. He sat down before me rather with the confi- dence of a man who was to be gratified, than one who was about to suffer a painful and disagreeable operation. I made many ineffectual attempts to pass the bougie into the oesophagus. In carrying the point towards the back part of the pharynx, I found an obstruction so absolute, that I could not venture to press with force. In introducing the bougie much curved, so as to avoid the ob- struction on the back part, I still found it inter- rupted. I at last succeeded, by giving the instru- ment a twist laterally, which brought the point to pass by the side of the throat, and move along the lateral part of the pharynx. I observed, with some interest, that when the bougie was intro- duced, it was not grasped, nor were there any im- pressions on the soft wax. Having got the way of introducing the bougie into this patient, he often returned to me, at the distance of a fortnight, and was always relieved by the passing of the bougie. It was not till a year after this, and not indeed till after his death, that I found he was a gentle- man of large fortune, who had his medical attend- ants at home, and that in delicacy to them he came in some measure clandestinely to me. Be- fore his death he had said that I had taken great VOL. I.—PT. I. F1 66 THIRD REPORT. interest in his case, which induced the friends to request me to examine his body. His death was not to be ascribed to the complaint in his throat, yet there was something there deserving notice. I found a bag projecting from the lower and back part of the pharynx, and pushed into a space be- twixt the oesophagus and spine. The bag was not covered with muscular fibres, but may be described as a hernia or protrusion of the inner coat of the pharynx, betwixt the strong fibres of the muscular coat. Reflecting on former experience, it was evident that this bag was the cause of obstruction by re- ceiving the end of the bougie. For when the in- strument was directed backwards, the point of it must have entered the bag; and when carried in an opposite direction it must have passed into the chink of the glottis. When the bougie was di- rected laterally it escaped both these holes, and went down into the proper canal. While this gentleman visited me his principal complaint was flatulence of the bowels, accompa- nied with spasm, which seemed to affect the whole tract of the canal, but principally the oesophagus. So distressing was this flatulence, that it prevented him from going into company. The necessity of passing the bougie he ascribed to the gradual ac- cumulation of mucus, which the passing of the instrument enabled him to discharge. In fact there was such a deposit found in the bag; it was of aCASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. G7 consistence as if chalk in fine powder were mixed with the natural secretion. The parts are represented in plate IT. The pre- paration is marked XIII. 2. M. 1. In the 3d volume of the Medical Observations and Inquiries there is a case of obstructed deglu- tition from a preternatural bag formed in the pha- rynx. The case is given in a letter addressed to Dr. Hunter, who by his many important commu- nications, but above all by the influence of his su- perior mind, made that collection creditable and useful above all others. Mr. Ludlow, the author of the paper to which I now direct your attention, states the case with great judgment, and proposes his conjectures of the cause of this derangement with much ingenuity. It appears from his description that he believed the bag to be muscular; for he says, “ When the bag “ was full it was immediately irritated probably by “ the weight of its contents ; and as the bag was “ nothing more than a perfect continuation of the “ coats of the pharynx, this irritation would be “ instantly communicated upwards,” &c. If the proof of its muscularity was the act of rejecting the morsel from the bag when an attempt was made to swallow, I would object to the statement; for I conceive that the muscles of the neck, and espe- cially the platysma myoides and the muscles at- tached to the larynx would have the effect of pressing the larynx and pharynx against the spine, so as to squeeze and empty the bag. Indeed it is68 THIRD REPORT. not easy to conceive how a bag should form, being muscular, and therefore capable of resistance.— Although it be hazardous to form a conclusion from a single example, yet in saying that the bag is not muscular I am supported by very strong analogies. * I think that the bag is produced by a protrusion or hernia of the inner coat of the pha- rynx, through the fasciculi of the constrictor pha- ryngis. Mr. Ludlow accounts for the formation of the bag by the accidental falling of a cherry-stone into the rugae, or betwixt the loose folds of the pha- rynx. He supposes the cherry-stone to have been forced deeper by every successive morsel after its lodgment, and that by little and little, food also was forced into the bag, until at length it was enlarged so as to occupy a great space betwixt the oeso- phagus and spine. He proceeds more correctly to state, that when the food was carried backwards in the act of deglutition, the margin of the bag acting in the office of a valve, received the food ; and the bag being thereby distended, it compressed the oesophagus, and made the descent into the stomach still more difficult. The question is not, as I conceive, one of mere curiosity, but of practical importance ; I shall therefore offer another explanation. This gentle- * See examples in a future Report on the sacculi of the blad- der.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 69 man, whose case I have shortly related, was sub- ject to a spasmodic difficulty of swallowing. In that state it often happens that the force of the voluntary muscles remains, while they are unable to overcome the spasm in the top of the oeso- phagus. There are then repeated ineffectual gulping or efforts to swallow, which distend the pharynx; and although by such excitement the muscular fibres acquire strength, yet their strength is like that of the bladder when stimulated by frequent nisus, the fibres form stronger and more distinct fasciculi, betwixt which, the inner mem- brane is permitted to be protruded. When a patient is in the situation of this gen- tleman, the membrane may be protruded either by those ineffectual attempts which are followed by the regurgitation of the morsel; or by that action, which belongs to the complaint, the swallowing of air which is refused passage into the oesophagus, and which occasions a painful distention of the pha- rynx. During such efforts the distending fluid thrust the inner membrane of the pharynx betwixt the fibres or fasciculi of the muscular coat. If a case were to occur in which I had ascer- tained the existence of such a bag before death, I should attempt the cure by syringing the sac with such astringent injection as would prove innox- ious to the stomach if they happened to be swal- lowed, and by feeding the patient through a tube, so as to prevent the distention of the bag.THIRD REPORT. 70 The Subject continued. Since we have been led to consider the subject of sacs formed in connexion with the pharynx, it is my duty to remind you, that they may be formed in a very different manner from that ex- plained above. We hear of abscesses bursting in- to the throat, and occasioning suffocation; but it is a mistake to suppose that it is the matter which suffocates; it is the irritation of the ulcer, by which the communication is formed with the la- rynx, that causes spasm, and consequent suffoca- tion. When suppurations about the throat open into the pharynx, they also produce great incon- venience and distress. I have already noticed a preparation in my collection, which shows a com- munication betwixt an abscess around the spine and the pharynx. Other scrofulous suppura- tions, may open into the pharynx, and then there is increase of the suffering and danger. I re- member to have seen a remarkable example of abscesses in communication with the pharynx, where I had afterwards an opportunity of examin- ing the parts by dissection. The velum palati adhered to the back of the fauces, and at the same time a hole Avas opened in the palate by ulcera- tion. From the pharynx two holes led into ab- scesses, which had become large sacs reaching by the side of the oesophagus and trachea, and be* twixt the former and the vertebrae of the neck.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 71 Here the mechanical operation of these sacs and their valvular openings into the pharynx, had even a more unfavourable effect than in the examples mentioned above; for whilst the food could not reach the stomach it fell into the sacs and increas- ed the inflammation. In this case, the attempts to relieve were made too late, and the miserable patient died of irritation and inanition. The cure in such cases might be conducted as hinted above, with the addition of opening the abscesses externally, so that no lodgment might be permitted in them. It must be admitted, however, that the difficulty and danger of the case is such as to make it very desirable to prevent abscesses from forming in communication with the throat, either by inflammation of the membrane produc- ing them, or by suppurations bursting into the tube. I cannot conclude this subject without leading the pupil to remark, that there is something in common to all the tubes of the body; in as far as irritation within them will produce abscess on their sides, and sometimes these abscesses will commu- nicate with the tube affording an additional source of irritation and mischief. Thus from inflamma- tion in the fauces we have abscess in the folds of the arches of the palate, and behind the amyg- dalae ; from inflammation of the pharynx we have abscess external to the bag. So have we ab- scesses around the larynx and in the thyroid gland, produced by irritation and inflammation in' theTHIRD REPORT. 72 glottis. In inflammation of the urethra, produced by gonorrhoea, or the caustic, or the bougie, or injection, we have abscess also. So have we ab- scess from irritation in the rectum. Even external to the lacrymal passages we have abscesses, which, as in all the other instances, will turn to fistulas, if attention be not paid to soothe the inflammation of the neighbouring canal. I shall enter more fully on this subject in treating of fistula in ano. STRICTURE OF THE lESOPHAGUS, €urcti fit) tfic Application of (sTansdir. William Hawkins, aged 40. This is a tall man, thin, but with a countenance which indicates health. He is a farmer: he says he has enjoyed uninterrupted good health until May last, when he was suddenly seized with a difficulty of svvallowr- ing. Before this he had not been subject to spasms, or eructation, or flatulence; nor does he acknowledge having had any of the usual symp- toms of disordered stomach, tie had not natural- ly a narrow swallow, nor had he before this time experienced any difficulty in swallowing his food.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 73 Whilst sitting at supper eating his bread and cheese, the morsel stuck in his throat, a crust of bread was returned, and he could not take the rest of his meal. Next day he experienced the same difficulty of swallowing. He tried to take broth, but could get down only a very small quantity, and with much difficulty and exertion. The obstruction in the throat has continued with very little variation until the present day, and he says, that he is now thin and weak from absolute want; for he has had no bad health nor trouble to reduce him. He does not suffer by sickness: he has no retchings so common in this complaint: he suffers no sense of suffocation nor distention of his stomach, nor borborygmus. The only complaint he makes, in addition to the diffi- culty of swallowing, is of slime or viscid matter, which collects in his throat, and which is dis- charged, when he returns the morsel which he can- not get down. He can swallow liquids, but any thing solid, as a crust of bread, comes back, work- ing its way upwards without effort, that is, with- out volition or voluntary action of the muscles of the throat; but just before the morsel is returned, he feels a shivering through his frame. When the fingers are put around the throat while he swallows, there is neither bagging or distention of the pha- rynx to be felt, nor reiterated effort of the part. He thinks the obstruction is at the lower part of his neck. He had, what he calls, sickening medicinesTHIRD REPORT. 74 given him for this complaint before he came into the Hospital, but no instrument has been passed into his throat, although he has been getting worse, that is, experiencing more and more diffi- culty of swallowing since August last. Thursday 3d. A bougie passed into the pha- rynx, and an obstruction met with behind the cri- coid cartilage. Evening. Since the bougie was passed he has found himself much relieved. He explains this by saying, that he eats with more comfort, and without any part of his food coming back. Friday 4th. His difficulty of swallowing has returned. Saturday 5th. The caustic bougie was employ- ed ; he suffered no pain; he says it produced a tingling sensation. Evening. Immediately after the operation of the caustic, he thought he could swallow, but on making the trial the food returned. On after trials, however, and during the remaining part of the day he has been much better, and has not returned any of what he attempted to swallow. Tuesday 8 th. The food has not returned sinceCASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 75 the application of the caustic. He says he never was better in his life. Thursday 10th. The caustic again applied. Sunday 13th. He has been quite well. He swallows his bread and tea with ease, and nothing is returned. He is very desirous of returning home, as he affirms that he is well, and his wife about to be confined. While the patient feels no inconvenience, and is quite satisfied of his recovery, the bougie is still obstructed.—Dismissed. This man remained well for a considerable time, and had no return of the stricture; but dying of some other disease, the surgeon in the country reported, that he could discover no marks of dis- ease in the oesophagus. I shall make no remarks upon this case, until I have put into your hands a pure specimen of the stricture of the oesophagus. By this I mean a case where the stricture was a consequence of inflam- mation, without the interference of the surgeon either to mar or to mend. I am indebted for this specimen of disease to Mr. Goolden, of Maidenhead, a gentleman whose professional character bestows an additional value on what he communicates.THIRD REPORT. 76 STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS FATAL. Drusilla Champ, resident in the parish of Bray, Berks, ascribed the commencement of her com- plaint to a cold and sore throat, which attacked her twenty-four years ago. After this she had dif- ficulty of swallowing, but it was not attended to till the inconvenience becoming more consider- able, in the year 1792, four years after its first occurrence, she made application to a surgeon. But as a superficial examination afforded no evi- dence of disease, very little was directed for her. She had an acid gargle, and a volatile liniment to rub her neck. After this she did not apply for medical assistance. The disease gradually increas- ed, she still experiencing more and more difficulty in swallowing solid food of any kind, at length liquids produced great distress. For the last ten years of her life it required an effort of many hours to swallow a small teacupful of thin fluid. On the 29th of May last she died, evidently from starvation, occasioned by the im- possibility of swallowing, even fluid nourishment, sufficient to support life. Hearing of the case, Mr. Goolden requested the husband to allow him to examine the part; heCASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 77 found [what you also have an opportunity of see- ing], a stricture of the oesophagus, so narrow that it would admit no more than a horse-hair or bristle to pass ; the stricture is situated at the lower part of the pharynx, and opposite to the cricoid carti- lage. We cannot now be surprised that when Mr. Goolden put his finger into the pharynx, he could no where find a passage ; it appeared a cul de sac. See plate IV. fig.l. The preparation is in the col- lection, XIII. 2. M. 8. OBSTRUCTION TO SWALLOWING, VMM dFungmts Cumor# of tlje ©eaoptjagus, dFatal. The following case refers to the preparation XIII. 2. M. 12. of my collection; I owe it to the kindness of Mr. Hamerton, apothecary of St. George’s Hospital. Every one who visits Windmill Street must see how much I am indebted to the liberality of the surgeons of that Hospital. This case bears on the subject we are considering ex- actly in that degree, which makes it interesting, so like in symptoms to the cases of stricture, yet so different in reality. John Terry, aged 70 years, was admitted into the hospital on the 22d of November, 1815. HeTHIRD REPORT, 73 was unable to swallow either solids or fluids, and pointed to the cricoid cartilage as the part where the food stopped ; and he complained of an un- easiness about his stomach, and suffered much from hunger. His tongue was foul, and his bowels constipated. He slept well, notwithstand- ing great weakness. He said that he had been in health till within two months of his coming into the hospital. On a sudden, he found great difficulty in swallowing, and this without any previous pain or difficulty. This obstruction continued for three weeks, and only some days he could swallow thin gruel or beef tea. After this period he was enabled to take his food, and this power of swallowing returned as suddenly as the inability had come upon him. About ten days ago the difficulty of swallowing returned, and now he is again equally incapable of swallowing either solid or liquid food. He never felt pain in the throat. His suffering has been more from hunger than thirst; yet, of late, the craving has diminished. At present what he attempts to swallow is re- turned by vomiting, after remaining in the throat a few seconds. He expectorates a white phlegm, which he complains is of a bitter taste. He has also within these few last days a pain and weight at the scrobiculus cordis. An oesophagus bougie of a common size has been passed into the stomach, without any obstruction being felt.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 79 About three weeks after his reception into the Hospital, he could swallow liquids without much . difficulty; but he continued, notwithstanding, to sink until the 31st of January, when he died. Before his death, a large abscess had formed under the left arm, which contained a pint of pus. Upon examining the body, the lungs were found generally adhering, but were otherwise sound. The heart was natural. Chalky matter was found within the coats of the aorta. The oesophagus was observed to be distended just where it entered the posterior mediastinum. It was of three times the natural size, and of a dark purplish hue. On opening it, a large irregular tu- mor presented, soft spongy and pendulous, from the inner coats of the tube. The viscera of the abdomen were natural, with the exception of an appearance of inflammation on the peritoneum of the liver. The preparation is engraved. Plate III. REMARKS UPON THE (Casse0 of difficult Deglutition. In forming an opinion on these complaints in the pharynx and oesophagus, it is much to be de- sired that we should proceed only on matters de- monstrated, and not trust to the feelings and ex-80 THIRD REPORT. pressions of the patients. The example of true stricture in the oesophagus, corrects the notion we should otherwise form. We see that inflammation will produce stricture, that the stricture will be progressively worse, because obstruction produces pain, pain inflammation, and inflammation in- crease of the stricture. So that here as elsewhere, a stricture necessarily gets worse and worse, until the canal is almost totally closed. We perceive that in the stricture of the oesopha- gus, the derangement is in the inner membrane of the tube, that there is no apparent disease of the tunica vaginalis gulae, nor any degree of thicken- ing of the glandular structure of the oesophagus. We owe our knowledge of this complaint to Sir Everard Home, tie has given an engraving and description of it, and has described its exact place to be immediately behind the cricoid cartilage. To see it delineated, he observes, appears in some measure necessary to force upon the mind a belief, that the area of the oesophagus can be so much diminished, while there is so little thickening of the surrounding parts, and so very small an ex- tent of the tube occupied by the disease. It will be further observed, that in the engrav- ing, which I have given, the stricture is not formed by a membranous partition, but by a general and somewhat irregular puckering of the whole mem- brane of the oesophagus. In the next place, we find no ulceration near the stricture, as in someCASES OP DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 61 examples recorded. So that even in the very- worst stricture possible, and where it is the cause of death, it does not necessarily follow, that ul- ceration shall take place. The state of parts exhibited in the instance of Drusilla Champ, and the progress of the disease when left to itself, will prove the necessity of inter- ference. And I may venture to suggest, that the proper course is the use of the bougie. But in the stricture of the oesophagus, as in the stricture of the urethra, cases will occur, where the attempt to dilate will bring on spasm and obstructions, and where the caustic becomes necessary ; so that I am very sensible of the great benefit which the profession has derived from the example of Sir Everard Home. We may observe, that in the case of Hawkins, both the simple bougie and the caustic bougie gave relief, when introduced into the oesophagus, and here again the analogy betwixt the urethra and the oesophagus recurs. The very satisfactory effect produced by the caustic, in the cage of Hawkins, might lead us to prefer this mode of treatment ; yet I confess that the very circum- stance of the obstruction yielding so quickly to the means employed, appears to me a reason why the caustic, though happy in its effects, was not in this case necessary. And in similar affections of the throat, I would advise the pupils to be con- tented with the introduction of the bougie; and reserve the use of caustic for more formidable VOL. I. PT. I. GTHIRD REPORT. 82 cases, where the stricture is obstinate, and the disease of longer continuance. From the specimens before us, as well as from the recollections of the natural structure, we shall be convinced of the propriety of introducing the oesophagus bougie with a gentle hand:—it re- quires dexterity, not force. The true stricture, which belongs to the inner membrane of the oeso- phagus only, is weak, and must be easily over- come. The circumstance of the natural thinness of the coats, the possibility of the instrument being engaged in a bag, or obstructed by a tumor, and not a contraction, should teach us to press lightly. But there is another cause of difficulty in the introduction of the bougie, proceeding from the natural form and connexions of the pharynx and oesophagus. This subject I propose to treat at large on another occasion, but I may notice it here as an additional reason for operating with precaution in the introduction of the bougie into the throat. I believe that common inflammatory sore throat will sometimes, be the foundation of stricture in the oesophagus, and certainly inflammations of the tube, from violence done to it, will have this effect; for example :— XIII. 2. M. 6. Is a specimen of stricture so remarkable, that I have engraved it in a plate. Twenty years before this woman’s death, she swallowed soap lees. This produced inflamma- tion, which terminated in stricture. She died literally starved.CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 83 XIII. 2. M. 7. Exhibits another stricture of the oesophagus, from the same cause. The child, in her mother’s absence, swallowed soap lees, which produced inflammation, and stricture, and death, from total obstruction of swallowing. It is singular that such a cause of injury to the tube should have occurred so often. A young woman was brought into the Middlesex Hospital, who had swallowed soap-lees ; she died of morti- fication of the gullet. The Subject continued!, in Reference to Spasmodic Stricture of the (Esophagus. There is a mistake, into which the most dili- gent are apt to fall, that is, apprehending the worst on all occasions, and mistaking symptomatic derangement for more formidable organic disease. In swallowing, many muscles are called into co-operation, which are occasionally employed in other functions, or belong also to other combina- tions. It is in this manner that the muscles of the tongue or pharynx may become deranged in- dividually, because of their relation to remote parts. In fact, the pharynx and oesophagus much more frequently suffer from disordered action, which is appropriately enough called nervous, than from organic injury; and it is quite obvious, that the source of such symptoms, however formidable their appearance, is in the disorder of the stomach and bowels. When we have the dissection of the G 2THIRD REPORT. S4 nerves of the tongue, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, before us, and when we see distinctly these numerous connexions of nerves reaching in a complicated net-work from the abdomen to the tongue, we then receive the true impression of the prevailing nature of these disorders. The succession of actions necessary to deglu- tition are these: 1. The retraction of the tongue and the rising of the larynx. 2. The distention and contraction of the pharynx. 3. The succes- sive contractions of the oesophagus. 4. The yielding of the passage of the diaphragm and simultaneous relaxation of the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Spasmodic difficulty of swallowing, for the most part, takes place at the termination of the lower constrictor pharyngis, or at the termina- tion of the tube in the stomach. From which it would appear that the derangement consists in the one set of muscular fibres refusing to enter upon the succession of actions, which should be propagated from the other. There are two diseased actions which may be mistaken for stricture or scirrhous ulcer of the passage, viz. spasms of the muscular coat and paralysis, for they equally prevent the passage of the morsel. These affections are transitory, and merely symptomatic. Their cause is in the stomach, or more remotely in the liver or uterine system. Thus in the youth of both sexes the disorder may be introduced with a spasmodic cough, attended with cold and weight in the pre-CASES OF DISEASED PHARYNX, &C. 85 cordia, darting pains, and convulsive fits. Or the patient has eruptions on the face, indicative of dis- order in the stomach, with pain and weight there; \ or the catamenia are irregular, the pulse small, the feet cold with craving of the stomach, and con- stipation of the bowels. Even in adult males we meet with spasmodic difficulty of deglutition, coming suddenly in the middle of a meal. The food is retained for some time with a painful distention of the tube, before it is permitted to pass into the stomach, or it is rejected by a kind of rumination. When authors speak of a spasm continuing for days, or during months, they surely mistake the paralysis for the spasm of the tube. Thus the case of Mathews, in Dr. Monro’s valuable work [on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines] was a case of paralysis. 1 attended the process of her feeding, and saw the dissection ; the tube had resumed its function previous to her death, and the appearances were quite natural. The next consideration I shall offer is, that in obstruction of the oesophagus, from a cause per- manent in its nature, there is always more or less attending spasm. Hence, in the case of Nichols, although the cause was permanent, the symptoms varied ; so they did in the case of Terry. There- fore, in considering what is to prove beneficial in spasmodic difficulty of swallowing, we are pre- paring ourselves to alleviate the suffering, from causes in their nature incurable, or which are re-8<) FOURTH REPORT. moveable by operation only. The remedies are either such as tend to correct the visceral disorder, and give activity to the gastric and hepatic organs, or they are more directly anti-spasmodic, by having an influence on the muscular action of the tube. 1. Mercurial friction on the neck. 2. Mercurial pill to the extent of salivation. 3. Valerian in draughts, and volatile anti-spasmodic liniments. 4. Stimulating vapors, as of assafoetida inhaled. 5. Laudanum taken in small quantities, so as to rest in the oesophagus; anodyne clysters, &c. &c. FOURTH REPORT. CASES OF FISTULA IN P ERIN EG. I have divided these cases into three series: I. Sudden bursting of the urethra, and extra- vasation of urine. II. Urinary abscesses of the perineum. III. Fistula in perineo, properly so called. The first six cases prove the alarming nature of this sudden bursting of the urethra, and extrava- sation of the urine into the cellular membrane;87 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. the necessity of giving the urine immediate issue and of preventing the recurrence of the evil; of soothing the local irritation, and supporting the system against the influence of the extensive mor- tification which ensues from the infiltration of the urine. In the detail of these cases some useful distinctions will be observed. BURSTING OF THE URETHRA, AND ploughing of tljc £ctotuw. THE PATIENT SAVED. Robert Cole, twenty-eight years of age, Sept. 6th. Clayton’s Ward. This patient has long been subject to stricture in the urethra. He says that he never had an instrument passed, except on one occasion, a bougie. The disease has made this progress without his attaching blame to any body. He has no idea that he has fallen into his present con- dition from obstruction to his urine, and attributes all his suffering to cold and ague. About three weeks ago he was seized with this ague and fever, as he describes it. “ He dropt down for dead, and when he recovered his senses, he was shivering violently;” for this his friends recommended warm brandy and bark, and he be- lieves they induced him to drink a full pint. And he adds, “ there was the mischief, for after thel-OURTH REPORT. 88 shivering I was in a flaming fire.” The hot fit lasted for about three hours, then for some hours he had an interval of ease, after which the shiver- ing recommenced. During all this time he could not pass a drop of urine, and the obstruction continued until he was on his way to town in the Ramsgate Iioy, and this was altogether for a period of six days. While in the boat he felt as if he could make water, but he saw none come away, and after this the parts became enormously swelled, so that his scrotum was as large as his head, and much in- flamed. It was when on the river that the scrotum became black, after which the urine dribbled away continually. He got a hackney-coach, and came directly to the Hospital. The scrotum is much distended, and from theflac- cidity of the skin, it would appear that it must have been still more swelled, and has somewhat sub- sided. It is quite black, and must all slough away. At the lower part of the scrotum the "black slough already shows a disposition to separate. On the point of the right hip there is an abscess, which gives him more pain than the scrotum; it is pointing. The urine comes in drops through the natural passage. The countenance is haggard, and he looks much older than he says he is. There is an anxiet}'-, with something of w'ildness in his countenance. Yet he is perfectly collected, and gives me the account of his sufferings rationally. His pulse isCASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 89 frequent and weak, conveying a creeping wiry sensation to the finger. A sharp bistoury has been introduced into the lower part of the scrotum, so as to cut the slough and cellular texture; urine issued. A fomentation cloth is applied after being dipped in decoction of poppies, and sprinkled with camphorated spirits. An enema with starch and laudanum has been given. 10th. The process of sloughing is going for- ward ; a large portion of dead cellular membrane has been cut away to give free vent to the urine and matter. The abscess of the hip has been lanced ; no urine escaped from that abscess. He is very low, and fears are entertained that his con- stitution will not stand the shock and the conti- nued irritations. R. Cinchon. Pulv. Jvi. Rad. Serpent. Virg. 3 vi. Coque in aq. fontis oct: i. ad f xii. Liquoris collati 3 x. Tinct. Cinchonae comp. 3 ii. et adde Tincturae Opii gutt. x. f: h : et re- petatur ter in die. 15th. This man’s countenance is better; his pulse is firmer, the oppressive feelings at his breast have left him. The right testicle is uncovered; a mass of slough still encumbers the left; the lower part of the penis is bare, and the integuments of the pubes are undermined. Much sloughy cellular membrane has been withdrawn from under them. The penis is inflamed and tumid.90 FOURTH REPORT. %5th. The scrotum has entirely sloughed away and left both testicles bare. They preserve their vaginal coats. 26th. The right testicle is more retired, and consequently more covered. A spongy tumor of the tunica vaginalis already shews itself, which is destined to form the regenerated scrotum. The patient bears up well, with the assistance of wine and his bark decoctions. 97th. He is not so well to-day ; he says, he feels faint and giddy ; the pulse is weaker ; thesurfaceis cold, and his bowels are relaxed. Capiat haustum salinum et spiritis aetherisvitriolicicomp. gutt.xxx. This derangement was owing to an accumulation in his bowels, and was removed. After this the case book is defective. When the parts had put on a disposition to granulate and heal, and no irritability of parts or of constitution re- mained, the attention was more particularly direct- ed to remove the obstruction of the urethra. The testicles granulated and covered themselves ; the wound contracted from day to day, and the patient was discharged well. BURSTING OF THE URETHRA, SLOUGHING OF THE SCROTUM, EXTENSIVE SINUSES AROUND THE BELLY, iirtticnt sabetr. Tuesday. A professional gentleman called upon me and expressed considerable uneasiness on ac-CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 91 count of an cedematous swelling of the fore skin and scrotum, which he had observed in one of his patients. On our way I inquired into the circum- stances, and learned that the patient was fifty-live years of age, and had spent thirty years in India. On returning to London he had put himself under a surgeon of eminence, for the cure of strictures in the urethra, and afterwards submitted himself to this gentleman’s care, who was at this time in course of dilating the stricture by the use of the bougie. On Sunday he had used a bougie of a middle size, and had passed it without violence into the bladder. No blood followed this intro- duction of the bougie, but during the night there occurred a very considerable haemorrhage from the urethra. Next morning a swelling appeared, which was supposed to be extravasated blood, and the following day I was requested to attend. I found the patient lying on his sofa in a state of fever and tremor. He said he had shiverings in the night, and the fever now upon him had succeeded. I observed that the urine came away with difficulty, and required him to strain a great deal. It now only came in drops, although before the attack the stream had been free. The swelling which had occasioned apprehension was indeed very like oedema; but on the right side and upper part of the scrotum there was a tumor which pitted and evidently contained fluid. I had therefore no doubt that the appearances were owing to extra- vasated urine. A moderate sized gum catheter was92 FOURTH REPORT. passed into the bladder. The parts were fomented, and after the bowels were opened he had an opiate. I requested to be sent for on the slightest change taking place. Wednesday. I find a very serious change to have taken place. Having a sudden call to make urine, in his agitation and in drawing out the plug of the catheter, he withdrew the instrument itself and made water from the urethra. He expressed himself pleased with the large stream, but soon after he found the swelling of the scrotum mate- rially increased. The scrotum has become generally and greatly distended. I immediately opened the scrotum with the abscess lancet very freely; there came full eight ounces of blood, and watery fluid drained away, so as to occasion a very great reduc- tion of the swelling even while I remained with him. A catheter was introduced, and particular injunctions given. Dr. Babington being expected, I did not prescribe for him at that time. Thursday. He is better ; he has less heat, and the scrotum is diminished. A black spot is on the front of the scrotum. He has a draught with five drops of laudanum every two hours. Friday. The scrotum is of a dark red colour, a blush of erysipelas extends to the bottom of the belly; the black spot is not larger, but a slough will take place there. The cellular membrane within the incision is white and dead; I have broken down the cellular membrane, to give free passage to the fluids. The pulse is calmer ; there isCASES OP FISTULA IN PERINEO. 03 not the same degree of tremor, nor is the tongue so dry. He is ordered a draught of decoction of bark with a few drops of laudanum and diluted sulphuric acid. The fomentation to be extended to the belly. Saturday. No moisture on the skin ; tongue dry ; pulse 90 ; more taciturn. Dr. Babington has approved of more support. A pint of port wine to be taken in small quantities in the course of the afternoon with soup and jellies. Sunday. The slough is very extensive, and the testicles will be laid quite bare. I have dissected away a great quantity of the ragged cellular mem- brane with the forceps and scissars. The wound is dressed with pledgets of lint dipt in camphorated li- niment, and the carrot poultice covering the scro- tum. Fomentations are continued to the belly. H is bowels are moved every morning by clysters. January 3d, Wednesday. I have now no fear for my patient’s life ; P. 80 ; skin more moist; he has taken more nourishment, and the sloughs begin to separate from the edge of the suppurating skin. I fear the urethra may be included in the slough, and then the case will be lamentable. 5th. Friday. The putrid mass is very large. I dissected off a large portion to-day. The redness on the belly is gone ; but a hardness and caking of the skin above the pubes and groin remains. A milky fluid exudes from the integuments ; we have urged him to live better. 8th. Monday. The slough is separated and theFOURTH REPORT. 94 testicles entirely uncovered. Already granulations show themselves. The catheter has been twice withdrawn, and larger ones substituted. This has been an operation of some difficulty, from the length and fulness of the fore skin. But now that the slough can no longer confine the urine the catheter is withdrawn, and he makes urine through the urethra without moistening the dressings be- low ; and the case being much simplified, I have taken my leave. 12th. Friday. The surgeon in attendance has again requested my opinion ; a swelling has taken place round the loAver part of the belly. Above each groin there is an abscess with surrounding hardness. As it is thought possible that the urine has again found its way into the cellular mem- brane, the catheter is introduced ; the integuments of the penis are very much distended ; the glans penis cannot be felt through them, and it is con- sequently difficult to introduce the catheter.— P. 115, skin dry; urine high coloured; no appe- tite. Friday 19th. Since my last note a considerable change has taken place. The inflammation ex- tends around the lower part of the belly, forming a band two-hands breadth in diameter. It has been kept low by cold applications, but a band of har- dened integuments incircles the belly, passing from the pubes round both groins and over the alae iliorum. From this date to the 29th there is no note.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 9-5 The abcesses above the groin became soft and ul- cerated, while the integuments around were caked and hard. The fluid discharged, sunk through all the bed clothes and mattrass. I enlarged the opening, took away some sloughy cellular mem- brane, and gave vent to eight ounces of pus, thin and without smell. This I did several times, for as the cellular substance was washed down to the opening by the flow of matter, it choked the pas- sage and confined the matter. After the sloughs were discharged, the sores were dressed simply, and the sinuses had com- presses laid along them, and supported by a flan- nel roller. The whole surfaces affected were fo- mented morning and evening, and every attention paid to support the patient’s strength. February 1. Another depot of matter has formed on the right side. The quantity of thin inodorous matter now flowing from under the integuments of the abdomen, is very great. He stood to-day while I examined him, and the matter poured in streams from the ulcers. I have great fears for his life. His pulse is quick, his hands dry; he has a great expectoration, and is very much reduced in strength. What is favorable, is that he has a resolute mind to obey his physician, and is not too much alarmed at parting with life ; and that he takes his wine and bark, submits to have the lower bowels emptied by enema, and takes light nourishment. 10th. Called to-day, and finding the sinuses96 FOURTH REPORT. sluggish, advised ail injection of sulphate of zinc. The experiment to be made cautiously on one of the sinuses. March 2Sth. One of the openings still discharges, and 1 find him still confined. The remaining in- teguments have drawn themselves about the testi- cles so as greatly to conceal the ravages which have taken place. He must be sent out of town to re- gain force of constitution for the filling up of the sinuses; they are beco.me habitual. April 2C)th. Being again called here, I find the sinuses still open, and running all round the belly to the loins. The matter has dropt down upon the scrotum on the right side, where there is redness and tumor. I have passed a seton from the open- ing on the left side of the belly to that above the left groin. I have opened the abscess on the right side of the scrotum, and have given a de- pending orifice to all the sinuses and ulcers around the right haunch. The sinuses were injected with solution of zinc, and a more perfect apparatus of compression used; he takes the Islandic moss, and milk diet. 23d. All the sinuses of the right side amended. The seton on the left side has caused some inflam- mation, and a purulent discharge with foetor. I have withdrawn it, and bound down compresses on the tract of the sinus. From this time the patient made rapid amend- ment. The sinuses closed, and he regained his wonted health. »CASES, OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 97 REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. The gentleman who attended this patient was naturally inquisitive to know how far all this mis- chief was to be attributed to the use of the bougie. The cause of this extravasation of blood and urine was not occasioned by the introduction of the bougie, but by erection in a certain state of stricture of the urethra. The occurrence is not singular. A young gentleman, who had a stric- ture torn after painful priapism, found the blood flowing from the urethra next morning; from the swelling of the parts he thought he must have an aneurism of the penis; it was the urine which, escaping from the urethra into the cellular tex- ture, distended the integuments of the penis and scrotum. I am now satisfied that there was no second oc- currence of the extravasation of urine in this case, as suspected, (on the 5th of January). The urine on first escaping had produced an erisipelatous blush over the integuments of the lower part of the belly. This subsided: but the injurious effect of this urine upon the cellular membrane could not be remedied; it slowly inflamed and sloughed; and on the rising of this second inflammation the swelling assumed the appearance of further infil- tration of urine. Having mentioned this sudden bursting of the VOL. I. PT. I. HFOURTH REPORT. 98 urethra, it may occur to my readers to inquire how it is that the urine does not get into the cellular texture, when the urethra is torn by the use of the bougie. The difference is, that in the one case the membrane of the urethra is torn anterior to the stricture. The urine therefore comes upon it with a diminished stream, after passing through the stricture, and where it has a free passage for- ward. In the other case of rupture by erection the breach is behind the stricture (for there is ever the weakest part of the canal) and the urine flows direct into the breach of the membrane, while the stricture is impeding its progress forward. There is still a more formidable rupture than this into the common cellular membrane, as the following example shows. EXTRAVASATION OF URINE INTO THE CAVERNOUS BODY, FATAL. The body of a man, about fifty, was brought into the dissecting-room. The penis was enorm- ously distended, and black with gangrene, but no breach of surface had taken place. On dissecting the parts a stricture was discovered in the urethra, and a breach in the canal which led into the caver- nous substance of the penis. The urine, instead of infiltrating into the common cellular membrane,99 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. had g*ot a passage into the cells of the penis; erec- tion from this cause had taken place and mortifi- cation. Parts preserved XIV. 1. M. The model of the appearance which first presented is in the op- posite cabinet. BURSTING OF THE URETHRA, WITH ©Ttrabasatton of WHERE THE SLOUGHING OF THE SCROTUM WAS PREVENTED. I was requested to visit a domestic of a family of distinction. I found a man of fifty years of age and corpulent, under great apprehension from an obstruction of urine. He was cook, and had prepared a great dinner; had been much exposed to the fire, and had exerted himself to the ut- most. In this state of heat and excitement he had gone to make water, but found himself unable; and as he exerted himself to force the urine he felt a burning sensation, but no urine came. He had been subject to obstruction of urine from an old stricture; but preceding this sudden difficulty, the stream of water was of a tolerable size. On examining the back part of the scrotum, I found it filling with urine; but the tumor had not h 2 •100 FOURTH REPORT. advanced generally into the loose texture of the scrotum. I sounded the urethra with a soft bou- gie, and ascertained the extent of the stricture. 1 judged it possible to introduce a small silver ca- theter into the bladder. I succeeded in this, and drew off some ounces of urine, and let the cathe- ter remain, and thought it sufficient to open his bowels by a dose of castor oil. Next day I had reason to regret, that I had not punctured the scrotum, it was necessary to open it largely to- wards the perineum, for the swelling was diffusing itself. This patient did well at that time, and no sloughing took place; after the pressing danger was over I used a bougie to enlarge the stricture, and the wound of the perineum gradually closed. But having a similar attack, as I understood, some time after while in the country, he died. BURSTING OF THE URETHRA, AND <£ftratoa#atio« of iLlvutr—dfatal. In the early part of last winter I was requested to see a gentleman, who had unexpectedly observ- ed his scrotum enormously distended, after an at- tack of strangury. I found an old acquaintance, who had been three years before under my care for stricture in the urethra, and Avho had left me abruptly. It was a very narrow and irritable stric-CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 101 lure, and I thought he had tired of my slow mode of proceeding, and gone to some more adventu- rous surgeon; but he had only got impatient to be married. I found him now a man upwards of fifty, corpulent, with a young wife and an in- fant. He received me with a smiling face, and ac- knowledged how much he had disregarded my former advice. But his animation was artificial, he appeared like one struck with death. He was too active, and too hurried in his speech. The scrotum was distended to the utmost, the penis was sunk in it, and a tumor presented in the peri- neum. I did not attempt the introduction of an instrument, and only opened the back part of the scrotum with the sharp pointed bistoury, carrying the point towards the place of stricture, and dividing the fascia of the perineum. I ordered tepid ano- dyne fomentations to the perineum, the bowels to be opened with infusion of senna and salts, and an enema of starch and laudanum. I saw him two days after my first visit. The scrotum had not diminished in size, it was of a dark red colour, and the incision was sloughy. He was dozing, and had lost his recollection of me. The next day when Mr. Shaw saw him, the parts had sloughed extensively, and he was sinking. After death there was found a stricture at the bulb of the urethra. Anterior to the stricture, the canal had many irregular bands. Posterior to theFOURTH REPORT. 102 stricture, the canal was dilated; and immediately behind the stricture there was found an ulcerated hole of an inch in diameter. What was remark- able, was an abscess, formed no doubt by irrita- tion, in the cavernous body of the penis : and from the same cause an abscess had formed upon the outer covering of the prostate gland. See XIV. 1. M. 52. BURSTING OF THE URETHRA, W&ffttt repeated ^tincture# tocte mate, INEFFECTUALLY, FROM BEING TOO SMALL AND SUPERFICIAL. In the following case I was occasionally con- sulted:— H. H. aged 60. He acknowledges that in the early part of his life he was often infected with gonorrhoea, and that on one occasion it continued for nine months. In 1783, he first experienced difficulty of making water, and he had a strangury for eighteen hours ; and at that time ineffectual attempts were made to introduce bougies into the bladder. Since that time he has been subject to have bloody urine; and when he has found the urine suddenly stop, he would, by squeezing the penis, force out a small calculus. On Sunday last, the Ll\th, (three days ago), the difficulty of passing urine increased; it came drib-CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. *€3 bling away in small quantities with much strain- ing. On Monday and Tuesday, the difficulty conti- nued; during the afternoon of Tuesday, while straining very much, he felt, as it were, a yield- ing to his effort, attended with great but indescrib- able uneasiness. The penis and scrotum were sud- denly distended, and he became greatly alarmed. On Wednesday T(th, in the afternoon, the scro- tum was punctured near the rapha, and fomenta- tion cloths were applied. In the evening the swelling of the scrotum on that side appeared to be diminished; at this time vesications were observed on the penis. These were opened, and the scro- tum again punctured in several places. At this time the integuments of the belly appeared dis- tended. On Thursday 28th. The scrotum was reduced in size, but the penis was black. The integuments of the penis were this day laid open, which gave freer vent to the urine. At this time, when the patient attempted to make water, he was sensible of the urine passing through the incisions. In the evening of this day his pulse was full, and he had frequent hiccough. The penis was diminished in size, but blacker. Friday 29th. The gangrene is accomplished in all the scrotum and penis; the tongue is brown and dry ; pulse 80. not so full: skin cool. He says he is drowsy. The hiccough has ceased. During the 30th and 31s*, he was becomingFOURTH REPORT. 104 worse, and complained of a heavy dull pain in his loins, and the lower part of his abdomen. He could make urine through the opening on the penis, yet, from the fulness of the abdomen, the bladder seemed distended. On the 1st of the month, the pulse became fuller, and 88. The numbness of the loins and belly was increased ; the belly distended, apparently with flatus; and there was an appearance of more effusion under the skin. On the 2c?, the tension diminished, and a slough hung out from the wound. The next day the countenance altered, the pulse fell to 77, and feeble ; the urine passed off continually. On the 4th, he rallied; pulse 83, and skin cool, and he felt himself better. On the 6th, he fell very low, and the extremi- ties became cold, attended with hiccough. He was convulsed during the night. The convulsions continued at intervals until the morning of the 8th, when he died. In this case, as in the others, it was very diffi- cult to get the patient to take any nourishment. On the appearance of mortification the campho- rated spirit was applied under the fomentation cloths. Afterwards it was dressed with slips of lint dipt in the sp. terebinthinm, and the sour poul- tice over the dressing. He had decoction of bark with wine three times a day, and afterwards his wine was changed for brandy in his gruel: his bowels were moved by the ol. ricini} and he had occasionally an anodyne.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 105 It was not permitted to open the body, but the bladder was drawn out from the perineum. The bladder was dark coloured, and loaded with blood, as after inflammation. The muscular fibres were uncommonly strong, and the muscles of the ureters very large and distinct. The prostate gland was of a natural size, but the ducts or folicules of the gland were much enlarged, and small abscesses had formed on the outside of the gland in commu- nication with these ducts. The urethra, from within four fingers breadth of the bladder was dilated, but there the probe passed out of the canal into the sloughy integuments ; immediately anterior to this hole there was found a stricture of small extent, but firm as cartilage; and to appear- ance the canal at this place was actually stopped. The kidnies had the pelvis distended. URINARY ABSCESS CONFOUNDED WITH HERNIA, AND THE PATIENT LOST BY DELAY. Tuesday, February 9\st. A professional gentle- man called upon me to beg that I should take un- der my care, a man whom he had just carried to the Hospital, and whom he described as being in eminent danger from strangulated hernia. I found the man so ill as to be nearly incapable of giving me any information. I took this note.106 FOURTH REPORT. He had a scrotal hernia on the right side, the inte- guments of the scrotum are much tumefied, and have a blush of redness. There is a swelling on the left side of the pubes, the nature of which would be doubtful, from its being in the seat of inguinal hernia, were I not able to trace it down- wards to a connexion with a swelling in the peri- neum. Behind the scrotum there is a tumor which has burst, and in the hole there is a ragged slough of cellular membrane, I got a tolerable answer to questions put to a man whose eye was dead, whose features were sunk, and who was in a sort of drowsy apathy. He had not been troubled with complaint of the bowels, he had had regular eva- cuations, and there was no fulness of belly. He said that he had had no obstruction of urine, but not trusting him in this I used a bougie. I found a stricture very near the orifice, but forcing that I could pass a middle sized bougie into the blad- der. I introduced my bistoury, and enlarged the opening in the perineum, and fomentations were put to the scrotum and perineum, and an anodyne enema given. Wednesday, 22d. This man is with difficulty roused. His breathing is affected, and nothing can save him. He has had a stool, but the nurse cannot assure me that he has passed urine. Eight ounces of urine have been drawn off by the ca- theter: the urine is purulent and very fcetid.— Let him have a few spoonfuls of brandy and water.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 107 A blister is to be applied to the back of his head and neck. The fomentations to be continued, and the opiate enema repeated. Evening of the same day. He is less sensible. There is subsultus. P. 120, not intermitting. His manner of breathing indicates that he is dying. He is dying of irritation from which the old man in the opposite bed was saved by timely incision. While the wound in the perineum ought to be an incision and not a puncture with the lancet, care must be taken not to touch the substance of the penis or the larger branches of arteries. This patient lost eight ounces of blood from the incision, which certainly tended to weaken him. The hernia gave a fine example of the anatomy of the sac and ring. There had been no mischief there. The cause of death was the shock and irri- tation from the obstruction in the urinary canal, and the sloughing of the cellular membrane. The preparation is marked, XIV. 1. M. 57. The stricture is not narrow, the canal seems rather as if it had been compressed by the abscess. The abscess extends round the urethra, and betwixt the spongy body of the urethra and the cavernous body. It also passes far forward upon the penis, and backward towards the anus. It does not ap- pear that the abscess communicated with the urethra.FOURTH REPORT. 108 It may be necessary to draw the attention of my younger readers to the chief circumstances of these cases. 1. It appears that punctures of the scrotum are insufficient even to empty the cellular texture of the extravasated urine, and quite unfit for prevent- ing the urine taking the same course a second time. If the lancet be used, the shoulder must be moved, while the point is kept at rest, so as to make a large opening in the skin. 2. For the most part the urine bursts into the perineum, and is carried by the fascia of the peri- neum forward into the looser scrotum.* In this case the opening into the scrotum must be at the back part, and the point of the instrument directed backwards, so as to give issue to the urine as it escapes from the perineum. 3. But it will be seen here, that the extravasa- tion takes place sometimes more anteriorly, and the (edema of the preputium is the first sign of the approaching danger. In all cases, therefore, it is proper to sound the urethra with a bougie [and this should be done in the gentlest manner] to as- certain the place of stricture, and that the puncture may be directed with reference to the spot from whence the urine issues from the urethra, and which is always behind the stricture. 4. The urine has a deadening effect on the cel- * Turn to the observations of Mr. Abernethy. 1 say turn to them, for no surgeon should be without that valuable work.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 109 lular membrane, when it is permitted to fill the integuments. When in a smaller quantity, and with diminished force, it produces a blush of ery- sipelas, which subsides and rises again in the form of more phlegmonous inflammation. This was particularly the case in two instances, and the fever and the hard swelling of the skin required cold and sedative applications. 5. In most of these cases, the yielding of the urethra was preceded by a state of much excite- ment and irritation. An ulceration of the urethra is^a consequence of this irritation, and the membrane is thereby weakened. The push of urine bursts through this tender part, before there is consolida- tion of the surrounding parts, or before the cells of the common texture are glued together by the process of inflammation. Hence there is no limit to the flow of urine, and hence the dangerous na- ture of the accident : for the general powers of the system quickly sympathize with the death of the part and fall low, and there is a just appre- hension of the patient sinking. 6. The circumstance of irritation preceding the rupture, teaches us to be particularly cautious either of exciting the urethra by interference with instruments, or of permitting a fever to be raised by imprudence on the part of the patient, in a certain state of stricture with irritation. I need not here repeat what may be the dreadful conse- quences. These cases make it too apparent. This view of the subject enjoins another precau-FOURTH REPORT. 110 tion, that when the accident of bursting does take place, after giving free passage to the urine, it must be one of our principal objects to allay the irritation. r As it is probable, that in the prosecution of the work, I may have new opportunities of describing the effect of injuries to the perineum, I shall not here speak of the extravasation of the urine from the urethra when ruptured by external violence. The Subject continued.—Cases of Urinary Abscess. tlnder this head, we consider all those abscesses which are occasioned either by the irritation with- in, the urethra causing abscess external to it, or by the escape of urine through ulceration of the canal. For it will be remembered by the surgical student, that the urine does not always escape as in these examples just delivered, at once abroad into the cellular membrane. It will now appear, that sometimes it makes its way by little at a time, and by the irritation of its presence produces ab- scess. While the surgeon is inattentive to the differ- ent ways in which the urinary abscess forms, he must be liable to produce them by his improper in- terference with the urethra; and I am inclined to think, that many have produced such abscesses while innocent of the knowledge that they were themselves the cause.Ill CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. ABSCESSES OF THE PERINEUM FROM stricture of ttje SJretfcra, WHERE NO BREACH OF THE CANAL TOOK PLACE. Abscess in the Perineum, produced by the Operation of the Bougie. Holder, 68 years of age. ls£ Day. This old man is taken into the house, because he is in a very miserable and helpless con- dition from stricture in the urethra. He rises many times in the night to make water ; he passes it in small quantity, and in a small stream. The wax on the end of a soft bougie is moulded to a very narrow stricture, and is brought out exhibit- ing a small projecting point. 3d Day. A fine bougie has been passed into the bladder. 4f/i Day. Complains of shivering and fever, and that he is very ill. 5th Day. Was relieved by an enema of starch and laudanum, with a sudorific powder. Says he is much better, and passes his urine more freely. 7th Day. A bougie was passed into the bladder and withdrawn after five minutes. 9th Day. Complains of irritati'on and burning in making water. There is a little hardness in the perineum. The bougie is not to be used again. He is ordered laxatives and tepid bathing of theFOURTH REPORT. 112 hips, and an anodyne draught with the aqua kali. Mtli Day. The tumour of the perineum is con- siderably enlarged and hard. At this time our interest in this man’s situation was considerably increased. He formerly had a hernia, and wore a truss. The hernia came down, and could not be reduced : it became strangulated in three days, and was operated upon. He was in extreme danger, for a small portion of intestine came down under the Poupart ligament, and the delay of a night would have been fatal. The bleeding, the warm bath, the clysters, the conti- nued vomiting, kept him sufficiently low to per- mit me to leave the abscess in the perineum and the stricture of the urethra to nature. The ab- scess broke, an extensive foul sloughy suppuration was established; a cataplasm was applied to the pe- rineum, but nothing further was attempted. While the man was under discipline for the wound made in the operation for hernia, the abscess became clean, healthy, and closed, and not a drop of urine was discharged either at first or in the course of the cure. When the wound had cicatrized, and the ab- scess had closed, I used the bougie again, but with great precaution ; and this patient was dis- missed perfectly well. The particulars of this case will form part of another series. But at present it proves, (what I113 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. \Vish were more generally known than I find it to be) that a very little pressure of a bougie more than is right, into a narrow stricture will bring on irritation in the canal; and that the effect of that irritation within the canal will be a suppuration or abscess on the outside of it. The cellular membrane is so much more prone to fall into suppuration than the part primarily affected, that matter is collected ex- ternal to the urethra, and without any direct com- munication with that tube. It will no doubt also be observed, that the cir- cumstances of the case required rest and forbear- ance, and that the cause of irritation being re- moved, the abscess closed. If the bougie had been persevered in, urine would soon have appeared in the abscess ; that is, the urethra would have be- come ulcerated, and then a fistula would have formed. Another Example.—Stricture of the Orifice of the Urethra, producing Abscesses of the Pubes. There is no kind of stricture which is attended with more distress and spasm, and the consequent irritation, than the verv narrow stricture situate immediately within the orifice of the urethra. The first specimen of stricture of the urethra pre- served in that division of my collection which contains the morbid appearances of the urinary organs, is of one just within the orifice of the urethra, and which with difficulty admits a bristle. In this case the effect of irritation in the canal was VOL. I.—PT. I. IFOURTH REPORT. 114 to form a succession of abscesses around the root of the penis. There was no communication be-* twixt the urethra and these abscesses. A Third Example.—Of Abscess from the Use of the Bougie. At the.breaking out of the war with the United States, I had under my care an American gentle- man, who, in his desire to get home, used the bougie too frequently, and without allowing the excitement of the parts after the introduction of the instrument to subside, before he passed it again. In consequence of this I found him complaining of heat, throbbing and swelling,in the perineum ; and on examination a hardness was perceptible in the perineum. This hardness increased, and was pro- longed towards the anus. The skin caked; I could not resolve the swelling; it became red and sup- purated. But the canal being sufficiently pervious, by making him live very low and quietly, by soothing the part, and by giving mucilaginous drinks, and deferring the use of the bougie, it closed and healed. I might give many other instances of the same occurrence, were it not against the plan of this work to refer to cases of which I have no longer any record, either in notes or in anatomical preparations. A suppuration will take place at the inner corner of the eye, bearing the same relation to the lacry- mal duct that these have to the urinary passage,11.5 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. and without any communication with the duct itself, but proceeding from irritation there. If such an abscess be neglected, it may become true fistula lacrymalis; and then, like the fistula in perineo, it will, by the increasing excitement, sup- port itself. ABSCESS OF THE PERINEUM, COMMUNICATING WITH THE URETHRA. L. B. was proceeding with bougies to enlarge a stricture in the urethra at the bulb, and had suc- ceeded so far that he could pass a bougie of the size of a writing quill, instead of the smallest with which he began. He was about to leave town when he had an attack of shivering and feverish- ness ; and at the same time he felt a hard and pain- ful spot deep in the perineum. When he ex- plained his situation to me, I advised him not to undertake his journey, but to remain very quiet and to live low ; to apply leeches to the perineum, to foment the perineum, and to take a dose of salts. He returned to me with the swelling hard and prominent, complaining of a burning sensation when he made urine, and that after making it there was spasm and drawing of the part attended with great pain. This he said subsided until called again to make water, when the symptoms returned. I had no doubt that the urine had got from the ure- thra into the abscess, and that it was exciting it to unusual inflammation. I therefore introduced the i 2FOURTH REPORT. 116 gum catheter, and let it remain in the bladder ; by this the urine was drawn off without falling into the abscess, and he was easy for two or three days. On visiting him at the end of this time I found him complaining, as formerly, of pains and con- tractions, and a burning sensation when the urine passed. This was explained by discovering that the urine passed by the side of the catheter as well as through it. Upon withdrawing this catheter, and introducing one a size larger, this symptom disappeared. The swelling subsided, the inflam- mation and pain in the perineum was removed, and he appeared quite well, having the additional sa- tisfaction of seeing an unusually large instrument pass easily into his bladder. About three weeks after this, having made pre- parations for his journey, and having dined with a friend in a coffee room to be ready for the mail, he rose to make water, and suddenly he felt his old symptom, an acute burning pain in the perineum. He was aware of what had taken place, and re- turned to his lodgings, and sent for me. We repeated the means formerly employed, but without all the same good effect ; an abscess form- ed,which burst and discharged a feiv drops of urine, and became a fistula. By®the use of the gum catheter, and afterwards by the use of the bougie occasionally, this fistulous abscess diminished and closed; and at length the patient got into the country.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 117 STRICTURE, WITH in ttjc Umitcunt. the PATIENT IN THE FIRST INSTANCE SAVED; BUT ON A RETURN WORN OUT WITH IRRITATION. Pool, a servant of Sir J. St. A. aged 50, •has been taken into the Hospital. I attended him formerly in the following circumstances. He had been subject to strictures in the urethra for many years, and by the kindness of his master he had been placed under the care of more than one surgeon ; the caustic had been applied several times. The occasion of my seeing him was this. In coming up from Brighton he was exposed to fatigue and cold, and hence came a frequent call to make water and a great difficulty in passing it, which was followed by a complete strangury. He told me he had been subject to ague, and that this attack had been preceded with cold shiver- ing. One o'clock. There is a tumor in the perineum, and a little oozing of matter from the urethra ; his pulse is full and strong, the belly is distended, and the bladder can be felt above the pubes. I intro- duced the smallest bougie into the stricture, but it did not reach the bladder ; while I withdrew it, I urged him to try again to make water. He was enabled to pass eight ounces of urine. Leeches were then applied to the perineum, after which he was ordered into the hip bath.FOURTH REPORT. 118 Eight o’clock in the evening. He is not only feverish, but is excessively anxious and perturbed in his mind, and his countenance declares his long suffering. It is a state which must not be long permitted to continue. He has been in great pain, and the bladder is felt above the pubes. He has not passed urine since my visit. He expe- riences a burning sensation in the tumor of the perineum, and the scrotum is slightly swollen, I suspect with urine. A purging draught has had no effect on the bladder, and an opiate clyster has given him no relief. Contemplating these circum- stances there was but one thing to be done. I introduced a metallic bougie down to the stricture. I then took a sharp and narrow bistoury, and pass- ing it into the base of the tumor I directed its point towards the end of the bougie. I then drew the bistoury so as to lay open the tumor—a quan- tity of foetid pus burst out to some distance on introducing the bistoury, and by-and-bye the urine ^dropt freely through the incision. This so effec- tually relieved the urethra of pressure, that the patient was in a short time able to pass a few ounces of urine by the natural passage. On the succeeding day the belly was soft; the bladder was still to be felt, but the feverishness had diminished. I was prepared to puncture the bladder, if this amendment had not been evident. He escaped on this occasion ; the swelling sub- sided ; the urine became more free, and only a small fistulous opening remained in the perineum,CASES OF FISTULA IN FERINEO. 119 from which two or three drops of urine came when he made water. On examining this man’s stricture, I found it to be of the most obstinate kind ; admitting only the end of the smallest bougie; of a cartilaginous firm- ness, being continued some way along the canal, and very irregular. For the cure of this stricture he was under the care of a surgeon for twelve months, with some amendment. But the bougie was never passed into the bladder; he was subject to smart feverish attacks, with aggravation of pain, and difficulty of making water, and on these occa- sions he was also liable to an inflammation of his chest. This man being received into the Hospital, I find him much exhausted, as it were older by some years. He is now suffering under one of his attacks, which belongs, at the same time, to the urinary organs and the lungs. In receiving him, my object is to enlarge the fistulous opening in the perineum, and to get an instrument into the blad- der from the perineum. The attack being somewhat subdued by the warm bath, ipecacuanha joined with opiates and diluent mucilaginous drinks, I thought of gradual- ly enlarging the opening in the perineum by intro- ducing a bougie into it: by this I intended to give more vent to the urine, and thereby to relieve the continued excitement of the bladder. This at- tempt being continued for some days very gently, there came on alarming symptoms, with a crystal-120 FOURTH REPORT. line tumefaction of the prepuce, and a hardness of the scrotum at its connexion with the side of the penis. I thought it necessary, however unwilling, to touch this patient with the knife, to relieve the canal more effectually. I introduced a grooved staff into the urethra down to the stricture. I then took a sharp and narrow bistoury, and introduced the point of it into the opening in the perineum, I carried it for- ward until it grated on the groove of the staff, then moving the handle of the instrument, while the point rested on the staff, I effectually opened the urethra. Next day the tumefaction was abated, and the patient passed urine freely, both by the wound and the urethra. For some time after this, 1 satisfied myself with giving him a saline mixture, with Dover’s powder .and the tepid bath, by which the fever and the dryness of his skin was again abated. But I find in my note of the case, “ time slips away, and no amendment of this man’s condition.” So I endeavoured to make good the passage, and close the wound. After the incision the wound was dressed with a pledget of lint and a poultice, by which it was kept open, so that in my future operations I might have no further use for the knife. Having made him retain his urine, I prepared to pass an elastic catheter into the bladder. The stream had a direct issue from the bladder by the wound. I had little difficulty in introducing a gum catheter from the121 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. wound into the bladder. I gave him liberty to withdraw the instrument whenever it hurt him, or if the urine did not come freely; the urine came freely through it, hut was offensive and dark co- loured. The condition of this man induced me to wait for the favourable moment, and what I did was quickly performed, and without exposing him to suffer either much or long; but his situation did not improve. ITe was subject to cold shivering, he had great pain in his right side, his breathing was much affected. The report was still to the same purport—“ He breathes with difficulty; he has pain in the right side, which cuts him in drawing his breath ; his face is flushed; his pulse quick. There is, at the same time, a dulness and indifference about him, and he is inclined to dose.” After a consultation he was bled, and a blister applied to his breast. Next day he was more op- pressed, and although his friends, who visited him, said he had often been as ill, it was evident to me that he would die. “fie passes his urine freely; and attention has been paid to allay any irritation which may be upon the bladder; but it is to no purpose, his breathing is quick, and his eye tur- bid.” Died the morning after the report. Inflammation was found in the right side of the chest, and the lower lobe of the lungs adhered to the diaphragm, by means of a layer of coagulableFOURTH REPORT. 122 lymph, foul with purulency. The lungs were dark with inflammation. The liver and all the abdominal viscera were sound. The stricture in the urethra was very narrow. The passage from the bladder to the wound of the perineum was free. The inner surface of the bladder was rough, in consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation, and studded with irregular projections, formed by coagulable lymph*. Parts preserved. XIY. 1. M. 56. A SIMILAR CASE TO THE LAST, ATTENDED WITH REMARKABLE DESTRUCTION OF THE URETHRA. — Maxwell, 55 years of age, Clayton Ward, 5th February, 1815. This man has been long subject to strictures in the urethra. He is deaf, and par- ticularly stupid, but the appearances speak for themselves. There is an orifice in the scrotum discharging urine and pus; a discharge flows from the urethra. There is a large tense swelling in the perineum. I introduced a sound into the urethra down to the stricture, which was near the bulb of the ure- thra. I then struck a double-edged scalpel into the prominence of the tumor, in a direction towards * In a future part of this work, the affection of the chest, as connected with local diseases, and the irritation from surgical operations, will be treated of, and illustrated with cases.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 123 the point of the sound. Urine and pus started out with force from the puncture. I drew the knife backward, so as to make an incision, into which I could introduce my finger, and feel the end of the stafT. 1 ordered him an enema of starch and lau- danum. He passed the night in great comfort and free of pain. 6th. I now had a more intelligible account from the patient. Caustic had been applied to his stricture, and the bougie afterwards used. He was relieved, but not cured; and for some time made water pretty freely, but always with a burning sensation in the urethra. The pain became more and more, attended with scalding, whenever the urine reached the part of the urethra where the caustic had been applied. The tumor rose very gra- dually, and was soft the day before it was opened. 9th. Passed a small silver catheter into the bladder. 10th. Catheter withdrawn in the night, because it gave him pain. 15tli. Passing urine freely by the urethra, and some part by the wound. 21sf. The dresser has been dilating the stricture by the use of the bougies. The passage is enlarg- ed, and he is wonderfully contented. March 7th. They are neglecting this man. I find the passage narrower; the urine comes alto- gether by the wound, and a small bougie passes with difficulty through the stricture.FOURTH REPORT. 124 9th. I experienced great difficulty in attempt- ing to pass a small silver catheter into the bladder, and desisted ; taking then a large soft bougie, to ascertain the state of the canal, I found it, unex- pectedly, and without using force, pass out at the wound. 11th. A catheter has been passed into the bladder. 25th. The catheter has been retained till this day; the urine came freely through it, and also by the side of it. No urine has come by the wound, and the swelling and redness of the peri- neum is rapidly diminishing. A larger catheter introduced. 27th. The scrotum is large, but this comes from a swelling of the testicle, not from extrava- sation nor inflammation of the perineum. April \0th. The passage was made perfectly free by the use of the silver catheter, for catheters successively of a larger size were introduced ; but his health did not improve. His evening fever continued, his pulse was always quick, he had no appetite. He had a cough, with purulent expec- toration. He was wasting. A natural question occurred—Could the presence of the instrument occasion or assist in keeping up the irritation ? Accordingly, for some days, the catheter has been withdrawn, and only a soft bougie passed into the bladder, very gently, twice a week. But the symptoms have not mended.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 125 20th. Every attention has been paid to soothe and cherish him ; the urethra has not been touched. His hectic increases ; his pulmonary complaints increase. He is much in the same state with the patient in the same ward, whose death is certain, but of whom it is difficult to say whether he sinks from fistula in ano or ph thy sis. His voice became husky and low; he died on the 2d of May. What was remarkable here, as the preparation exhibits, XIV. 1. M. 54. was a deficiency of the urethra : there was a great vacuity from the orifice of the bladder, to within five inches of the glans. A process of ulceration and absorption had entirely carried away the urethra. From this and some other examples that have fallen under my notice, I have held out a caution to the pupils, against exciting or keeping up a degree of irritation by the continuance of instru- ments in the urethra; for in certain constitutions [I believe scrofulous], such an absorption of the canal may take place, as must render the cure quite impossible. CASE OF FISTULA IN PERINEO, OF TWENTY YEARS STANDING, WITH REMARKABLE DISORDER IN THE PERINEUM. William Huggens, a sailor, aged 45. Clay- ton’s Ward. Oct. 22d, 1814. It appears that he has had gonorrhea several times in his life; thatFOURTH REPORT. 126 about twenty years ago, he had discharge from the urethra, attended with phymosis, so troublesome, that it was necessary to divide the foreskin. For some years after this, he describes himself to have been in health, but he was at sea, and lived a sailor’s life for four years. About this time he be- came subject to obstruction in the urethra, and the difficulty was so great, that he would continue to make ineffectual efforts for twenty-four hours together, before he could pass a drop of urine. For four years he was subject to this distress. It was at this time that he fell from the ship’s side, - and received a violent contusion of his loins, on account of which he was carried to the hospital ship at Sheerness. Here, experiencing some of his old symptoms, with obstruction of urine, the sur- geon attending was led to examine his urethra with a bougie. But he never succeeded in pass- ing the instrument into the bladder. Notwith- standing this, the patient experienced considerable relief, and made water more freely. He was dis- charged from the hospital ship, but ever after at- tributed the discharge from the urethra to the ope- rations he underwent while there. About ten years ago he was taken prisoner, and remained in Valenciennes until the peace. Three years after his confinement he experienced an in- creasing difficulty in making water, and had more frequent calls. He was attacked with fever, ushered in with cold shivering, and followed by inflammation and swelling in the perineum.CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 127 Hence came still more obstruction to the flow of urine, and a severe seal ling pain as it passed. This was attended with a thick discharge from the urethra. A hard tumor now formed in the peri- neum, which they attempted to bring to suppura- tion by poulticing ; but no opening was formed at that time: the pain, irritation, and inflammation subsided, but the tumor in the perineum con- tinued. Two years after he experienced another attack. It was ushered in as formerly by rigors and fever; and now an abscess formed more forward in the perineum than the last. It opened and discharged matter. After this he discharged his urine, in part through the urethra, in part by this fistulous open- ing in the perineum. It was three years after the formation of this fistula that another formed. There was again the cold shivering and fever, unusual difficulty of mak- ing water, and burning in the passage, followed by a new suppurating tumor, which burst in the peri- neum. On examining the parts, with a view to understand these successive abscesses, this last appears to have formed in the scrotum. He remained in this distressing state for several years, passing urine at the same time through the penis scrotum and perineum. While in prison in France, little had been attempted for his relief; at one time he was attended by an English surgeon, from whom he expected a cure, but a misunder- standing arose betwixt the French and English128 FOURTH REPORT. surgeon, by which he was deprived of the latter's assistance. Last June he returned home. This is his present condition. Five inches from the extremity of the penis there is a firm stricture in the urethra. The scrotum is large and irregu- lar, from successive inflammations. There is a fistulous opening on the lower part of the scrotum, through which the urine drops. The perineum exhibits a singular appearance ; it is irregular and tuberculated, and as firm as a board. One tumor more considerable in size hangs pendulous ; it is of the form of a pear, and hard as stone. The whole space is undermined with fistulous commu- nications. The hole through which he has long discharged the greater part of his urine is at present closed. This patient was kept three weeks under re- peated attempts to pass the finest bougie into the stricture in the urethra, the common bougie, the catgut bougie, and the silver sound were ineffec- tually tried to make a lodgment in the contracted urethra. But the canal at the part had partaken of the hardness and irregularity of the perineum, and successive extravasations of urine, and the conse- quent inflammations had consolidated the surround- ing parts to such a degree, that there was not a pro- bability of introducing an instrument. From the ex- tent of the solid portion of the urethra, and its irregu- larity, the use of the caustic was, in my opinion, out of the question. Accordingly, after three weeks experience of the patient’s constitution, and a full129 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. examination of the great extent of parts destroyed, I planned the following OPERATION. The urine to be retained. If possible, ascertain the situation of the testicles in the mass of diseased scrotum, and make an assistant push them up to the groin, out of the way of the knife. Pass a sound down to the stricture, and let it be held steady by the same assistant. Pass the common probe into the sinuses in the perineum. Begin the operation by following the principal sinus with the scalpel. Dissect back the mass of parts so as to expose the spongy body of the urethra. Next -open the urethra so as to ex- pose the end of the sound, which is in the urethra. Having opened the urethra anterior to the stricture, endeavour to find the passage back- ward, through the stricture, with a fine probe: Cut upon that probe so as to make way for the point of the catheter, that it may be passed into the bladder, and there retained. Nov. 12th. Such were my anticipations of the operation, as stated to the pupils; very different was the operation in effect. 1. As to dissecting the bulb of the urethra it was impossible ; it could not be distinguished. The mass cut into was firm and dense, as a scirr- hous tumor, and thus what actually fell under the edge of a sharp knife was cut, but there was no VOL. i.—PT. I. K130 FOURTH report. possibility of using the knife as in dissection, to lay bare a surface. 2. In cutting into the urethra, anterior to the scrotum, I found myself much incommoded by the great size and firmness of the scrotum. Although it was possible to arrive at the catheter, and expose it, by digging into the firm substance of the scro- tum, yet when I came to use the probe and to point it backwards into the stricture, it was impossible to give it the direction. Though the probe could be directed forwards to the penis, it could not be directed backwards to the bladder, because the large unyielding scrotum overhung the opening. 3. Knowing the bad consequences of keeping a patient too long upon the table, who is worn down by much suffering, and that peculiar in- fluence which disease in those parts has upon the constitution, I found it necessary to be decisive. I therefore cut out a portion of the callous urethra, and opened the sinuses which run backwards. 4. Having now cleared the parts, I wished the patient to make water; but I found he had been told to strain hard, to pass every drop of urine be- fore coming into the theatre. This was a disap- pointment, in so far as it became necessary to finish the operation by introducing a portion of bougie into that hole which appeared most like the urethra, and to send him to bed. In the evening of the same day, I took off the dressings, and made him pass his urine; it came in full stream from under the pubes, and without131 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. any difficulty or delay I passed a full sized hollow bougie into his bladder. I drew off a great quan- tity of urine, and such a sight the patient declared he had not seen for ten years. I now passed the silver catheter into the extremity of the urethra, and brought it out at the wound. I then directed it into the hole from whence the urine had been discharged, and passed it home into the bladder. After Treatment. The appearance of the wound in the perineum was not promising; it was of great extent, and very irregular, so that six days after the operation I found it necessary to cut across a firm band of condensed cellular membrane to admit the ca- theter to lie deep enough. The patient, in the mean time, did well, was of good heart, and very much pleased to see his stream of urine come at a call. The wound was dressed simply with slips of lint dipped in oil, and a poultice over them. He was kept on very low diet; had an opiate at night, and decoction of althea for drink. December 1 st. The house surgeon, finding that the silver catheter produced pain, and did not give free passage to the urine, withdrew it. The holes of the instrument were filled up with mucus, so that it required the patient to strain, in order to pass the urine; this, with the presence of the in- strument in the bladder, irritated the bladder, and k 2132 FOURTH REPORT. occasioned a mucous sediment in the urine; an elas- tic gum catheter was introduced. 3d. He makes water so freely through the elastic gum catheter, and the wound has closed to such a degree, and so hides the instrument, that I am inclined to let it remain. 5th. He has been in pain from the wound being dressed with blistering ointment; return to the simple dressings, and the cold application to the scrotum until the tumefaction and redness shall $ have subsided. 10ill. The tumor, which was pendulous, from the perineum, contracts; the irregularity and hardness of the integuments diminish. He retains his urine sufficiently long, and voids it freely. But the wound diminishes very slowly, and an unkindly exudation covers the surface of the granulations. More generous diet allowed. l%th, To-day a large silver catheter was substi- tuted for the gum catheter. The gum was much dissolved by the urine, a shell of concretion had formed on the end of the catheter, and the tube was much stuffed with mucus. 16th. The tumefaction of the scrotum has sub- sided. The pendulous tumor has wasted almost entirely, and the depth of the wound is remark- ably diminished. The surface of the sore is red and healthy. I can still touch the catheter with the probe, although it is hid in the granula- tions. 19th. The instrument being in the bladder,CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. 133 produces some irritation ; but every thing is fa- vourable. 26th, The catheter withdrawn, it was black, but has no crust upon it: it is cleaned and replaced. January 10th. I can touch the catheter with the probe: the wound is dressed with the blister- ing ointment, and a warm poultice over it. It wants activity. 20M. The sore contracts, but the granulations are not inclined to close. Lime water and tincture of cantharides injected ; the sore dressed with the digestive ointment, mixed with red precipitate. February 10th. Let all irritating means be omit- ted. Foment at night, and use the bread poultice to the perineum. March 5th. The catheter to be withdrawn, and only the bougie passed every morning. This was done, from the conviction that the presence of the instrument excited the discharge, and that this discharge kept open the wound. It is hoped, that the passage being clear, and no source of irritation remaining, the small hole which remains may close. To-day I had an opportunity of seeing him make water, which he does in full stream, but a considerable portion comes by the perineum. From this time forward various attempts were made to close a small hole which remained in the perineum, but without success. The gum cathe- ter was left for some weeks without a change being effected; the largest sized silver catheter wa6 left in for a very long time. The occasionalFOURTH REPORT. 134 use of the catheter was tried, by which the urine was drawn off twice a day. Hot and stimulating dressings with poultice were employed: mild dressings and poultices were in vain substituted: stimulating injections of tincture of cantharides and solutions of sulphate of zinc, were thrown in: hot oil of turpentine was used to touch the fistu- lous opening: the edges were touched with a red hot wire. A seton was drawn across the opening. By these means, and many more contrivances, the opening was not diminished of that diameter which it had spontaneously assumed. It was remark- able, that I had at this time under my care three other cases of fistula in perineo, in one of which, there had been loss of substance; in the two others, there had been much disease, but no loss of substance. In the case where there had been loss of substance, I experienced the same diffi- culty as in this case of Huggens; in the others, the fistulous opening and sinuses closed by merely keeping the urethra pervious. For some time this man had been more diverted than interested in attempts to perfect the cure. He was quite well. He had recovered his health, and was no longer subject to cold fits or fever. He did not suffer the least irritation of bladder, and it had so entirely recovered its dela- tability and right tone, that he was never disturbed at night. The perineum had become soft and na- tural, in a degree not to be expected by those who had seen it a few months before: irregular with135 CASES OF FISTULA IN PERINEO. knobs, and pendulous tumors of long standing, and of a stony hardness; by placing his little finger on the perineum he could make a full stream of urine by the natural passage, without a drop coming by the small hole which remained. In this state he n as dismissed. This case will illustrate many points important in practice; but I confess that it left on my mind this reflection, that in no instance is it necessary or proper to cut the smallest portion out of the urethra or perineum; and that the difficulty of closing the breach of the can.al is principally to be attributed to the portion cut out in the ope- ration. This subject will be resumed. END OF PART I.&1 v(i ■ , ... 1 l . . . *■ It ‘ >1 • [Price 6s. PART II. OF SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS, v ' BEING A (QuiU'Rrllj iUjpOl’t OF CASES IN SURGERY. BY CHARLES BELL. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN, PA TERNOSTE R-R 0 IT, 1816. Barnard and Farley, Skinner-street, London.■ oU^s-5. /. ' . ( - Siftnarg ofCONTENTS OF N°. II Page Fifth Report on Fractures of the Bones of the Trunk, being Cases of Fracture and Dislocation of the Spine, and Injury of the Spinal Marrow. Cases of Frac- ture of the Ribs, attended with Emphysema, or with Caries - 138 Case of Fracture of the Spine, fata) 139 Injury of the Spine, with unexpected Recovery of the Patient 141 Fracture of the Spine, fatal 142 Sudden Death from Disease of the Spine 145 Subluxation of the Spine, fatal 146 Observations on the last Case 149 Dislocation of the Processus Dentatus of the second Vertebra, suddenly, fatal 150 Enumeration of Preparations illustrative of the Injuries of the Spine 151 Examples of the lesser Injuries of the Spine 152 Review of the Cases of fractured Spine 155 Of Emphysema from fractured Ribs 161 First Case 161 Second Case, fatal 163 Observations on the preceding Case 167 Third Case 168 Dislocation of the Sternum from all the Ribs. The Patient surviving. Fracture of the Sternum, fatal 171 Fracture of the Ribs neglected, followed by Caries, &nd Abscess on the side of the Chest and in the Thorax, fatal 173 VOL. I.—PT. u, cxiv CONTENTS. Sixth Report, containing Cases of Femoral Hernia 177 Femoral Hernia in a Woman, explaining the Manner in which the Gut fills 181 Remarks on the Case 184 Femoral Hernia in a Man, obscured by an Inguinal Hernia, and the Patient lost by the unimpressive Character of the Symptoms 187 Femoral Hernia allowed to Slough 189 Femoral Hernia, Operation successful 190 Case of Femoral Hernia, expressive of the worst Symptoms, and of the State of the Intestine in Mortification 194 Remarks on the preceding Cases 196 Case of Grace Glover. Femoral Hernia, where stercorace- ous Vomiting continued for ten Days—the Patient reduced to a State of Insensibility—saved by the Operation 198 Femoral Hernia. Adhesion of the Intestine to the Sac. Operation successful 203 Femoral Hernia, the Sac reduced along with the Intestine, the Operation successful 207 Remarks on the Case 209 Mortified Intestine in Femoral Hernia, where it was thought necessary to cut the Ligament, and free the Stricture .... 213 Observations on the Case 215 Of Anus at the Groin, with Remarks on the Operation of uniting the Intestine 219 Some Observations on the Structure of the Prostate Gland, by Mr. Shaw, Demonstrator in Windmill Street 221 Observations on the Amputation at the Shoulder Joint, and on the Excision of the head of the Humerus in Cases of Gun-Shot Fractures 220EXPLANATION OF TOE PLATES. FIGURE 2, PLATE IV. In the First Number. This Figure represents the Prostate Gland, with Part of the Bladder seen from within. A. A. Openings of the Ureters. B. Muscles of the Ureters, very strong-. C. Insertion of the Muscles of the Ureters into the Prostate, the Part into which they are inserted forms a projecting Tumour, hitherto considered to be the third Lobe. D. Op ening of the Urethra closed by the projecting Portion of the Gland. E. Part of the Coat of the Bladder thrown down on the Prostate. F. Prostate slightly enlarged. G. Beginning of the Membranous Part of the Urethra. The back View of the Prostate is not given, but in the Preparation the Portion called Third Lobe, may be seen projecting down- ward, and distinct from the Valvular Tumour, commencing at C. PLATE V. This Plate illustrates the Dissertation on the Ligature of Arteries. Fig. 1. The Femoral Artery dissected from the Stump, after Am- putation. A. A very small Clot. B. A considerable Branch going off very near the Place of the Ligature, and which, by bringing down the Stream of Blood, has prevented the Formation of the Clot. We see here by what a precarious Tenure the Secondary Haemorrhage is restrained. Such a Circumstance has produced fatal, because unexpected and sudden, Haemorrhage. Fig. 2. Represents the Effects of an Experiment—A Ligature was thrown loosely around the Carotid Artery of an Ass; the Effect was to intercept the Course of the Blood. A. The Ligature encircling the Artery, but not drawn; but only in Contact with the Outer Coat. B. B. The Clot formed as a Consequence of the Ligature as a foreign Body irritating the Artery. Fig. 3. The Artery of a Stump. A. The Clot. B. The Hole from which the Ligature was withdrawn. This Preparation shows, that in a healthy Stump the End of the Artery below the Ligature remains; that the Ligature comes away without bringing a Portion of the Coats with it.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xvi Fio. 4. The Artery of a Stump, A. The Remains of the Clot. B. The Ligature remaining three Weeks after the Operation. C. The Coats of the Artery fast degenerating into common cellular Tissue. This Preparation shows the Necessity of twisting the Ligature, to prevent the Threads being entan- gled with the Granulation ; and that, long after the Artery is closed, the Ligature will retain its Connexions to the Gra- nulations, and seem still to be attached to the Coats. Fig. 5i The Section of the Artery of a Stump. A. The Clot divided, so as to show its Adhesion to the Sides of the Vessel. PLATE VI. This Sketch was taken from a Frenchman wounded at Waterloo; the Head of the Humerus and the Acromion Scapuke were fractured by a Musket Shot. It is to illustrate the Question, whether in such Cases, the Excision of the Bone, or Amputation at the Socket, should be performed. PLATE VII. This Sketch illustrates the Second Part of the Paper on Amputation at the Shoulder Joint; it is one of four Cases taken after the Battle of Waterloo, in which the Arm was carried off by a Cannon Shot; where in each the Treatment was different, and in all successful. He belonged to the German Legion; around Shot carried off his Arm on the Field of Waterloo; in this Condition, unsubdued, he rode upright into Brussels, fifteen Miles, and presented himself to Dr. Bach at the Hospital of St. Elizabeth. When put into Bed he fainted, and remained insensible for Half an Hour. PLATE VIII. Fig. 1. Represents a Joint formed after Fracture of the Thigh.—-See the Case of Soane, and Observations on false Joints. A. The superior End of the fractured Bone. B. The Extremity of the inferior Portion. C. A new Capsule formed. D. A Ligament, having a near Resemblance to the internal Ligaments of Joints. Fio. 2. A Fracture of the Femur, followed by soft Cancer. A. The superior Portion. D. The inferior Portion of the Bone. C. C. The new Ossification extremely irregular. B. B. A soft Cartilaginous-like Matter, occupying the Canceili of the Bone.—See the Cases of soft Cancer in the succeed- ing Number.Phi, V. Tia. l. Fill. 2. Tfi. Fill. 1,1 'iMiinmi II' . i •••nxiiidj 1‘uhlishttt Dtr a. JAif> fn l.i'iitvnnii lfurst. Ormr K Rrmnnlint, VI VubtuheA 1)er. SLifjf. fyX ongma/t Jfurst ftres Ortnc AJtrtnvn' * : „ » * *Unit VJL I J\tb1iiIudJ)cc. 2.l8l6. b\‘-Longman Jfitrtl.liees. Orntc tJJrmvn.J\thhshr/i Ver. V. Jii6,TjyZmgtnanJTurjtJlets Omtr A Urtwn. flair VJIL.Surgical ©fcssertoafimtss, SfC. SfC. THE number and endless variety of “ accidents’" received into the Middlesex Hospital, give me daily opportunities of witnessing the house sur- geon and dressers occupied in setting fractures, and the difficulties which they experience at first en- tering on the practice of their profession. And even under the vigilant superintendance of experienced surgeons, fractures sometimes go wrong, and exhi- bit on the patient rising to walk, or using his arm, awkward demonstration of the principles which ought to have directed us. I mean oc- casionally to revert to this subject, and to take notice of some of the lesser cases: but fractures of the bones of the chest form a subject of far greater interest, as they implicate parts of vital importance. Strange as it may appear, this is a subject which notwithstanding the activity of the members of the profession, has been much neglected ; and I am sure that those for whom these cases are chiefly intended have no means cf knowing the true prin- ciples of practice, since the books which are inFRACTURE OF TJIE SPINE. 13 8 FIFTH REPORT. CONTAINING CASES OF FRACTURE, DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE, AND INJURY OF THE SPINAL MARROW—OF EMPHYSEMA, AND OF CARIES, FROM FRACTURED RIBS. Fracture of the Spine is the most formidable injury to which we are liable, without the imme- diate extinction of life. It may not perhaps ap- pear to be very useful to present melancholy ex- amples of this truth ; but the fracture of the spine, great as the injury is, still affords some hope of cure, and that hope may be increased by proper treatment. There are, besides, some vague unset- tled notions which prevail on this subject, and which demand examination. CASE OF FRACTURE OF THE SPINE, FATAL. Sept. 12th, 1816.—Auton, 25 years of age, a plasterer. This young man fell from a height of forty feet, and in his descent his back struck against the corner of a stone stair about eighteen feet from the ground. When brought to the hospital, a swelling was to be felt over the lower dorsal verte- brae. On pressing the finger deep, a depression, or interval, betwixt the spinous processes could be distinguished. He complained of great pain in the part, and all over the abdomen. He breathedFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 139 naturally, and was perfectly sensible: there was no defect of motion or of feeling in the lower ex- tremities. He was bled to sixteen ounces : twelve leeches were applied to his back ; and he had a dose of the house physic. 13th. He has passed a restless night. He is in great pain ; he vomits every thing he takes; the purgative mixture was rejected, and he has had no relief in his bowels. An enema ordered. 14th. He is delirious. His pulse frequent, not full; his skin hot. He passes his faeces and urine involuntarily : but there is no flaccidity of the ab- dominal muscles, and he has the perfect use of his limbs. 15th. This young man’s condition is very threatening; his pulse is 136. He was delirious during the night, and threw himself out of bed. He is now in a state of extraordinary excitement, and although he has full motion of the limbs, yet the spine is undoubtedly broken, or crushed, and he will, I fear, die with the symptoms of the last case, and from the same cause, suppuration with- in the tube Of the spine. Evening. He is delirious, and like a man who is good-tempered in his cups: he talks continu- ally, and invites the nurse to bed to him with very gay discourse. His stools and urine still pass in- voluntarily ; pulse 130 ; weak. 17th. It has been necessary to tie him down in bed. He now appears dying; his breathing is l 2140 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. very quick and laboured ; his pulse hurried ; his countenance is sunk, and his tongue is covered with a brown fur. About an hour before death, a change took place from that happy delirium, and groaning as, in much pain, he fell insensible, and died. The eleventh dorsal vertebra was fractured in its body. The spinous process of the same vertebra was crushed. The spinal marrow did not appear to have suffered mechanically, or to have been crushed. Pus thick in consistence, and of a greenish colour, lay betwixt the sheath and the spinal marrow. There was an effusion of serum betwixt the membranes of the brain. INJURY OF THE SPINE, WITH UNEXPECTED RECOVERY OF THE PATIENT. Sarah Beddoes, 18 years old. Bird’s Ward, Nov. Mr. Joberns’s patient. This girl was thrown from a window two stories high; her back struck the ground. When brought into the hospital, great tumefaction appeared opposite to the lower dorsal vertebra. One of the spinous processes was found to be crushed, and the spine, above and be- low, stood remarkably prominent. The lower ex- tremities were not paralytic, nor the belly tumid ; nor the bladder distended : her sufferings were confined to her back and loins. A wound was found at the bottom of the sacrum, which ran up-141 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. wards, to the extent of four or five inches. It ap_ peared to have been made by her falling on a spike or long nail.—A dozen leeches were immediately applied to the part injured, and repeated for three successive days. It would be tedious to give the unvarying jour- nal of this case. She was long supposed to be in the utmost danger, from the violence of the in- jury ; for weeks she lay complaining and moaning in a pitiable state, in all which time nothing could be done but repeating the leeches, the fomenta- tions, and poultices, which gave some relief, and administering the saline mixture of the house, with occasional laxatives and opiates. She has for three months lain on her side, with her body bent forward, and her knees drawn up. This has been her posture of ease. It is now eight months since this young woman was received into the house. Her lower extremi- ties are contracted ; her back is bent; she is ex- tremely thin, and the knobs of the vertebras are very distinct: two spinous processes stand out projecting, and leave an interval of two inches. She proves to have syphilis, and is sent into Haw- kins’s Ward. 15th Sept. This girl is dismissed from Haw- kins’s Ward, perfectly well, and a most remarkable change has taken place upon the spine ; the extre- mities of the spinous processes have approached,142 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. and she has regained her erect posture ; she has at least recovered her shape in a manner quite extra- ordinary. FRACTURE OF THE SPINE FATAL. Thomas Wills, aged 30, admitted Sept. 24.— Being on the top of a neighbour’s house, extin- guishing a fire, he fell a height of two stories, and came with his back upon the pavement. No injury to the spine was to be felt, but he had lost sensation and motion in all the lower part of his body and lower extremities. The bladder and intestines were insensible to their natural stimuli: he complained of a pain in his back, and referred it to the middle dorsal vertebra. He remained for six days in this condition ; blood was repeatedly drawn, by cupping, from the sides of the spine; his bladder was emptied by the catheter twice a day, and he had a sti- mulating enema thrown up at regular intervals. Liniments were rubbed on the extremities, which, however, could serve no purpose but to ease the patient’s mind. When he had been in the hospital for six days, his breathing became more affected, and he had a slight hacking cough. Emulsions, expecto- rants, and opiates, gave no relief. He was bled freely from the arm. The symptoms continuing, and the blood being huffy, venesection was re- peated: but the relief was not lasting, nor in- deed very obvious. For the pain in the side,143 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. and the difficulty of breathing, a blister was applied to the side. He had a mixture containing the mistura salina, tinctura scillae, and aether. About this time a consultation was held, and I was drawn attentively to observe his condition. He was quite sensible and collected, the lower ex- tremities lay without motion, and quite insensible. The belly was full, but exhibited an unusual flac- cidity; the respiration was performed by the heav- ing of the chest; and there was a catch in his breathing, from pain running round his ribs on a line with the injury of the spine. That the spine was injured appeared, not only from these symp- toms, but also from a certain degree of depression of several of the spinous processes of the vertebrae of the back. Repeated scarifications and cupping on the in- jured part of the spine were ordered. Oct. 8lh. In the evening his respiration became very rapid, being sixty to the minute. Ten ounces of blood were drawn from the arm, but without relief. The faeces passed involuntarily, the respiration became slower, and lie died. Dissection. Much coagulated blood lay over the sixth and seventh dorsal vertebrae, and the spinous processes of these vertebrae were broken, the tube of the spine was forced in upon the spinal marrow, and a sharp portion of the bone had pierced and lay pressing upon the spinal marrow; a rib was frac- tured on the left side, the broken extremity offracture OF THE SPINE. 144- which pressed against the pleura. This side of the chest shewed marks of inflammation.* SUDDEN DEATH FROM DISEASE OF THE SPINE. , about thirty years of age, was brought into the hospital on Monday 22d July. He was found in Portland Road, fallen in a fit; and brought by strangers to the hospital. When brought in he was discovered to be quite dead: frothy blood appeared at his mouth, and it was supposed to have come from his lungs. On examining the body nothing unusual was observed in the abdomen or head, or in the viscera of the thorax: but on turning back the lungs a tumor appeared in the posterior mediastinum, ex- actly resembling an aneurism of the descending aorta. On prosecuting the matter further, how- ever, the aorta was observed running closs upon the tumor, but not making part of it. On open- ing the sac it was found to contain a thick mass of scrofulous matter, in contact with a carious portion of the spine. On clearing the matter away, the bodies of the vertebrae were found eroded, and the inter-vertebral substance also destroyed in part, so that the spinal marrow was exposed. From his sister I learned that he had that day * It is important to observe, that the splinter which crushed the spinal marrow, belonged to the body of the vertebrae. It .could not have been removed by operation.145 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. taken a long walk into the city; that, after such walks on former occasions, he would complain of great pain in his back: that all the complaint which he had was this pain in his back, for which he had taken the advice of many doctors, but no- thing had relieved him. On further question, she allowed that he was subject to a palpitation, which was sometimes very distressing. He had experi- enced no impediment to swallowing, notwithstand- ing the tumor seemed to press upon the oesopha- gus, and no difficulty of breathing. CASE OF DIASTASIS OR SUBLUXATION OF THU SPINE, FATAL. March 9,9th, 1816.—Marshal, a coal waggoner, was brought into the hospital from Edgeware ; the account given by the people, who brought him, was rather confused. They agreed, that he had been riding on the fore-shaft of his cart, and by a sudden jirk was thrown off, and pitched on the back of his neck and shoulders. The man was somewhat intoxicated, and could not give a distinct description of what befel him. When carried into the hospital, he was put upon his legs, but he could not stand; and when supported by the shoulders, he dragged his legs after him. At this time he complained of pain in his loins, but no injury was perceptible there. Between his should- ers, however, there was a degree of swelling and discolouration. Some of the people who wereFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 146 with him said that the wheel of the cart (which was empty) had gone over the small of his back ; but after the first day he never complained of that part. Leeches were applied to the spine betwixt the shoulders, and his bowels were opened. For nearly a week he lay without complaining of any thing, except stiffness in the back part of his neck, and up to this period he had no symptom of paralysis; on the contrary, he could throw his arms and legs about, and retain his faeces and urine, and expel them naturally. On the 8th day he was almost instantaneously seized with convulsions over the whole body. He was relieved, in some degree, by bleeding, and continued sensible though his jaw was locked. His pulse, at this time, was very strong. Two hours after the first bleeding the convulsions were returning with more violence, when he was bled a second time. A few minutes after the second bleeding his lower jaw moved with great rapidity, and continued moving in an extraordinary manner for nearly five minutes, when all at once he ex- claimed, with great animation, that he could speak. From the moment he began to speak he appeared to be maniacal, for his expressions had by no means the appearance of common deli- rium : at this juncture he clearly proved, by his exertions, that he was not at all paralytic, for it required two men to hold him, and he almost sprung out of bed to be revenged on the nurse.FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 147 He passed a great deal of faeces and flatus with singular force, for he evidently had the command of the sphincter, saying, at the time with a smile, beg pardon Dr. , while he indeed used little ceremony. On raising him up to put on the strait waistcoat, he complained of pain in the back of his neck, but as there had been a blister on it we could not, from his description, under- stand whether it was the pressure on the skin, or something internal, of which he complained. In the course of an hour he was perfectly composed, so that from the first attack of the convulsions to his being again sensible, a period elapsed of twelve hours. In the morning he had such marked typ- hoid symptoms that the physicians were called to him; at this time he had so far regained his senses, that he answered questions pretty distinctly, but when left to repose fell into a low delirium. On the third day after the attack of convulsions, he complained of difficulty in using his arm ; and two days after he had total palsy of the lower extremities; he altogether lost the feeling in them, which w^as the more remarkable, as at this time he regained the use of his arm. He lived for a week after this, but continued sinking, and still retaining about him much of the character of typhus fever. The day before his death he was perfectly sensible, and had recovered sensation in his legs ; for he could feel the rubbing of a finger upon them. At this time, though he appeared toFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 148 pass his feces involuntarily, still he passed them with great force, and he was able to reject an enema which was given contrary to his desire. Dissection. The brain was examined carefully, and nothing was remarked except a little effusion between the pia mater and tunica arachnoidea. On cutting the muscles by the side of the last cervical vertebra a little pus oozed out, it was found to come from be- tween the vertebrae. On dissecting up the mus- cles, there was found to be an evident loosening of the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebra. A few of the dorsal and cervical vertebrae were re- moved, and then it was distinctly seen that there was a considerable space between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra, the intervertebral sub- stance was completely destroyed, and an immense quantity of pus surrounded them. On the back part the pus had extended under the scapulae, and on the fore-part was bounded by the oesophagus. On examining the spinal canal the pus was found to have dropped down through the whole length of the sheath to the cauda equina. Observations on the last Case. Authors considering the strength of the inter- vertebral substance have said, that the dislocation of the bodies of the vertebrae from each other was impossible. It is true, that commonly the body of149 FRACTURE OF TIIE SPINE. the vertebra gives way before the ligaments yield. But here is an instance of diastasis or subluxa- tion of the bodies of twb of the vertebrae. From Hippocrates to the multitude of French authors who have touched upon this subject, dislocation has been considered in no other light formidable, than as producing pressure on the spinal marrow. But this case serves well to shew, that luxation will prove fatal, even although the spinal marrow be not bruised. The last writer who treats of this subject is M. Boyer. He observes, that in the violent bending- forward of the spine, the ligamenta interspinalia are sometimes ruptured, but that no bad conse- quence results ; rest restores the part. But the rupture of the ligamentum subflavum (ligament jaune) is followed by paraplegia and death, and without doubt, he adds, it is because the spinal marrow itself suffers distention. The foregoing case will place this matter in another light. It is the progress of inflammation to the spinal marrow, and not the pressure or the extension of it, which makes those cases of subluxation and breach of the continuity of the tube fatal. The alternation of symptoms in this case is worthy of attention. DISLOCATION OF THE PROCESSUS DENTATUS OF THE SECOND VERTEBRA SUDDENLY FATAL. A man was trundling a wheelbarrow in Goodge- street near the hospital ; in wheeling it from theldO FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. roadway upon the pavement he felt some diffi- culty, and had once or twice drawn it back to give it the more powerful impetus. When at last the slight incumbrance was overcome, the barrow went suddenly from under him, and he fell with his chin upon the curb stone : he was instantly motionless, and although it was only a few yards to the hospital, when brought in, he was quite dead. Upon dissection it was found, that the tooth-like process of the second verte- bra, which threads the ring of the atlas, had broken from the hold of its ligaments; and, the transverse ligament yielding, the process had crushed the medulla oblongata. Under the head of Counterfissure, in the First Report on Fracture of the Skull, another example of sudden death from injury to the medulla oblon- gata will be found. This sudden death will remind you of the dif- ferent effects of an injury to the spine, according as it is higher or lower on the column. When the fracture is low it is attended with loss of sensi- bility. and motion in the lower extremities and disorder of the bladder; when the injury is higher up the abdomen suffers more distention; still higher, the respiration is affected; and when the fracture is above, the principal origin of the phrenic nerve, the act of respiration is stopt, and death from suffocation suddenly follows.\5\ FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. PREPARATIONS ILLUSTRATIVE OF THIS SUB- JECT IN THE MUSEUM. \ A pistol ball has passed through the body of one of the vertebrae of the back, and lies press- ing on the sheath of the spinal marrow. A triangular portion of a fractured verte- bra is sunk into the spinal marrow. The vertebra fractured, has united again, and the perfect union shows that the patient must have long survived the accident. Yet he died pa- ralytic of the lower parts of the body, supposed to be in consequence of the pressure of these ine- qualities. The spine fractured, but the spinal marrow not injured. But this appearance is deceitful; for although the spinal marrow was not crushed, it became inflamed, and was the cause of death. The vertebras of the neck having suffered diastasis or subluxation, the intervertebral sub- stance is seen to be wasted in suppuration, and in- flammation being communicated to the spinal mar- row it had extended in the whole length of the sheath. Caries of the vertebra of the back affecting the spinal marrow ; without any token of so for- midable a disease, the man fell down suddenly and expired. Vertebrae and theca laid open, exhibiting a scrofulous tumor similar to what we find in the brain, occupying the spinal marrow.152 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. I shall subjoin two examples of the conse- quence of a lesser degree of injury of the spine. CASE OF INJURY OF THE SPINE, ATTENDED WITH AFFECTION OF THE LOWER EXTRE- MITIES. Finechin, aged 33. It appears that he fell down a shaft full forty feet in depth: he complains of having hurt his back. There is uneasiness and defect of action in the lower extremities. Ordered a laxative mixture, and to be repeatedly cupped by the side of the ver- tebrae of the loins. About eight days after his reception into the hospital he began to complain of languor and universal pain; of sickness and debility. His pulse was quick, and his skin hot. It presently appeared that he had an attack of typhus fever, and he was sent into the physician’s wards. Three weeks afterwards, I was called to him ; he had recovered from his fever, but still complained of pain in his loins, or torpor of his lower extremities. I again ordered scarifications and cupping in the extent of the spine, and stimulating liniments: he was discharged, relieved. INJURY OF THE SPINAL MARROW, FROM A HURT ON THE SPINE. A respectable tradesman, in mounting curtains to a window, fell from the steps, and struck the1 53 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. lower part of the spine against the corner of a table. The bruise was severe, but he got the better of it by the usual remedies, and in the usual time. It was some months after, that he began to feel a want of power over the lower extremities; indeed the nature of this affection being a want of the full power of motion, and a defect of feel- ing, he did not attribute it to his former accident, the more especially as so long a time had elapsed before these symptoms appeared. This man is about fifty: square, and stoutly formed, and of regular habits, seldom exceed- ing his pot of porter; his arms are so powerful that even now he can mount a ladder, drawing his more unwieldy extremities after him. He is active in mind and body, and the only apparent defect is in the exercise of the will over the lower extre- mities, for they have not shrunk nor lost muscular firmness. When I first saw this man, I conceived that these symptoms might proceed from disorder of the lower part of the great intestines. From such a source of internal irritation we have very singular sensations of pain, and numbness about the hips, and stiffness, and spasm of the lower extremities. I therefore gave him calomel, with occasional purges of neutral salts. But when, after a period of two years, I was called in to consultation, and learned that outline of the case which I have de- livered, I advised more moderate living, leeches to be applied along the course of the spine, from VOL. I.—PT. II. M1.54 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. time to time, and issues to be formed by caustic, opposite to the lowest lumbar vertebra. I have no doubt that these means have, and will continue to, prolong his life, and the enjoyment of that limited power of the lower extremities, which he now possesses. These two last cases recal to mind one of the most interesting of the kind on record, that of the Count de Lordat, in the Medical Observations and Enquiries, Yol. 111. He was overturned, and had his neck twisted in the corner of his carriage ; after the accident he served two campaigns, sufficient evidence of the slow pro- gress of that paralysis, which encroached at last gradually on every bodily function. The report is very striking. He appeared stooping, emaciated, and dejected : he could still walk with the assist- ance of a cane in a tottering manner : his left hand and arm were much reduced, and he could hardly perform any motion with them, the saliva was continually trickling from his mouth, and he had neither the power of retaining it nor of spitting it out freely. What words he still could utter were monosyllables, and these came out after much struggle, with a violent expiration, and in a low voice and indistinct articulation. In the last stage the functions were more and more oppressed, and often he was threatened with suffocation. Upon examination the membranes of the spinal marrow were found thick and tough, and the marrow itselfFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 15$ m 2 had acquired an extraordinary degree of solidity. The symptoms of the two slighter cases of palsy, which we have here are, I imagine to be explained on the same principle, viz. the injury to the soft envelope of the spinal marrow and the accession of inflammatory thickening. Such slighter injuries to the spine have produced a scrofulous tumor, which, insinuating betwixt the processes of the bone have at last oppressed the spinal marrow. Med. Obser. Enq. Vol. III. p. 16’0. Review of the Cases of fractured Spine. It is remarkable that a subject of this magni- tude should have so little attracted the attention of the profession. I do not know to what books I can direct you: for authors have treated of the subject very superficially, and we have only some occasional cases in our books. The cases which I have noted for your observa- tion, make it evident that in injuries of the spine the danger to be apprehended is the same with that which accompanies injury to the brain ; viz. the rising of inflammation, and the suppuration within the theca. This indicates the necessity of repeated general bleeding, or constant local bleed- ing while the danger continues. We also see the necessity of controlling the motions of the patient, whether at first as in the state of inebriety ; or afterwards when delirious. The manner of accom- plishing it, I shall not consider in this place. The first question which it is necessary to156 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. agitate is this: how far does the analogy hold in fracture and depression of the skull, and fracture of the spine with crushing of the spinal marrow? 1 have not found a young surgeon who has enter- tained any doubt on this question; and some, who have just proceeded so far in their studies as to know why the depressed portion of the skull is to be elevated, I have found very decisive in their opinions, considering the operation as equally fit to be adopted in fracture and crushing of the spine. They confidently ask; where is the difference? a bone is injuring the brain and it is raised : a por- tion of bone is depressed upon the spinal marrow : let an incision be made and the portion of bone withdrawn ! They are encouraged in this by disquisitions in dictionaries of surgery, and by the discussions of lecturers. M. Boyer, the latest French authority on the subject, objects to the proposal only on this ground, that the indication is never sufficiently clear to authorise the operation, and our English authors object, because Ave might mistake concus- sion for fracture. 1. Now it is my “belief that an incision through the skin and muscles covering the spine, and the Avithdrawing of a portion of the circle of bone, which surrounds the marrow, Avould be inevitably fatal. For it is not sufficiently observed, that the membranes of the spinal marrow are the most sus- ceptible of inflammation and suppuration of the whole frame ; not exceeded by those of the brainFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 157 itself, of which they are prolongations. The cases before us afford indeed sufficient evidence on this head. 2. It further appears, to me that the analogy on which this practice is proposed, is false, and that in truth there is no resemblance in the cases. When a portion of the skull is depressed, a comparatively small portion of the brain is injured bv the intru- sion ; and were it possible to take away the part of the brain bruised by the bone, the function of the organ would remain entire. But when a portion of bone has crushed the spinal marrow, the entire diameter of the cord is crushed; and although it be but a small portion which has suffered, the injury of that portion is sufficient to cut off all con- nexion betwixt the parts above and below. 3. Nay, even if it were a sharp spine of fractured bone which had run into the spinal marrow (sup- posing that the injury then produced were suffi- cient to cause palsy of the lower parts of the frame) before that sharp spine of bone could be with- drawn, the circumstances would be so aggravated by the exposure of the spinal marrow, that inflam- mation, suppuration, and death, would be the inevitable consequence. Instead of diminishing the danger, the unhappy fate of the patient would be accelerated. 4. These cases shew how inaccurately the diagnoses of authors have been drawn. What tyro will not readily answer that paraplegia, dis-FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 15S tentionof the bladder and intestines, are the imme- diate consequences of fracture of the spine. Yet we see here instances of fracture of the entire body of the vertebrae, without such symp- toms as can inform us of the nature of the accident. And in the progress of the case we see symptoms arising, which no one has hitherto pointed out, as proceeding from affection of the spinal marrow. Instead of loss of motion and feeling, you have seen the patient tossing in restless agony; an agony of mind without any definable suffering. Instead of palsy confining his lower extremities, you find him throwing himself suddenly out of bed, and at last rising in a wild delirium, which our observations hitherto would not lead us to expect, as a consequence of that sort of injury which is for the most part attended with loss of sense and motion.. 5. The dissection in those cases proves the nature of this excitement. The great injury done to the spine, to the bone, is followed by inflamma- tion, which is rapidly propagated along the mem- branes of the spinal marrow; and as is the nature of these involving membranes of the nervous matter, when inflamed, suppuration rapidly fol- lows : and in the present example we find the pus dropping out from the sheath when cut across at a part far distant from the fracture. Hence we see the cause of the general irritation, and of the oppression or palsy which follows.FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 159 The inflammation of the spinal marrow i3 attended with an almost universal nervous irrita- tion, which is presently followed by excitement of the brain ; in the mean time, matter is poured out into the sheath of the spinal marrow, and either by its pressure causing palsy, or by its irritation disturb- ing the function of the part, so as to be attended with the same consequences. The excitement of the brain being followed by effusion death ensues. 6. There remains a question of some moment, and on which, in discussion with my learned brethren of the profession, I do not mean my brethren of the hospital, I have had the misfortune to disagree. A man who receives an injury of the spine recovers from the immediate effects of the accident, but at the distance of months, instead of having the full use of the lower extremities re- stored, lie begins to drag them more and more, and at length becomes totally palsied in the lower extremities, and languishes, and dies. I have heard it proposed by very high profes- sional authority, to cut down upon the spine and apply the trephine and raise the bone. This ap- pears to me a most desperate measure. In the first place, it is not proved that it is the bone which presses the spinal marrow. Indeed, I am confident, that in these protracted cases, when the palsy increases slowly, it is the thicken- ing of the membrane which encroaches on the spinal marrow; or a diseased action which isFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 160 gradually more and more affecting the nervous matter itself. It may be said, that although the pressure is produced by the thickened envelope of the spinal marrow, still it is the confinement of the bone which causes the membranes to press in upon the spinal marrow ; and if, by taking away the part of the tube of bone which confines the membranes, freedom were given to them, the spinal marrow would be freed from pressure. But this is an idea too mechanical. On the other hand, 1 offer this view: the palsy is a consequence of the swelling of the membranes, and proceeds from inflammation; and if you cut down upon the bone, and saw it out, and expose these membranes, you will not only increase the swelling and thickening of the involving membranes, but you will most probably raise such direct inflammation and mischief, as to cut off the patient suddenly. What then are we to do nothing in these des- perate circumstances? I do conceive the case to be desperate; but that does not authorise us to attempt a remedy which is not only desperate, but which will not stand examination, and affords to me, I confess, no hope. We are to take up the case as a scrofulous inflammation of the spine, and I am certain, that much may be done by prosecut- ing the cure with energy and perseverance, by local bleeding and deep issues.FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 161 OF EMPHYSEMA FROM FRACTURED RIBS. *1 am happy to meet you again, and especially, because there is a subject on which I wish to address you : and you must excuse me for say- ing, that it is a subject of which you are cri- minally negligent. It is easy to know whether or not a student be properly educated, by observ- ing the things to which he attends in an hospital, just as you may know a gentleman of liberal pur- suits by his conversation, and the objects which interest him. You will presently observe the ap- plication of this remark. There was an old Irishman, one of my patients in the accident ward, when I left town, in whom I took much interest, and often I drew your atten- tion to the case, and made you feel his sides. To many of you I explained his critical situation. Shall I confess I was concerned to observe the little attention that you paid to this subject. He was a man of 65 years of age. He had fallen from a ladder and struck his left side upon the corner of a chair; he remained at home for three days, until his master, having called on me, procured his admission here, to which you know his misfortune gave him a title without my in- fluence. I found him sitting up in bed, suffering much from pain in his side, aggravated by a short cough. On examining the side, it was not possible * From Clinical Lecture.OF EMPHYSEMA, 162 to feel the ribs, but you might perceive other evidence of his ribs being broken in the emphy- sematous tumor which covered them. He was fat, with that looseness of skin which is characteristic of his years; the skin was blown up, forming a tumor extending from the ilium to the clavicle. There was no doubt that' the rib was broken, and the lungs torn. I witnessed his situation with considerable uneasiness; but as he could lie down, and as he repeatedly affirmed he was easy, but for the troublesome cough which he said gave him pain in his side, I was satisfied with ordering him to be bled, and to have a linctus for his cough. I sent to inquire for him in the afternoon : I visited him in the evening: I sent again in the morning: and I saw him at twelve o’clock. The tumor spread further over the breast, and over the hips ; but nothing untoward occurred. He continued better the 3d day ; on the 4th he was still better. On the 6th and 7th day from the accident, the emphy- sema began to dissipate, and by the common atten- tion to confine the motion of the rib, and keep the circulation low, he quite recovered. Here was a case in which more was present to the understanding, than visible to the eye; he who had never studied would pass it with indifference, but the pupil who had read what Dr. Hunter had written on this subject; what Portal had delivered to the Academy of Surgery; what experiments Hewson had made ; or who had felt the interest which Mr. John Bell had given to this subject in 4163 AND FRACTURED RIB. liis book of wounds ; such a pupil would have looked with intense interest on the case. I wish that some among you had so attended to the case, I should not then have had to record the following instances : Wednesday, July 6th, 1816. Lynn, acom- mon labourer, was brought to the hospital in a state of insensibility. He had fallen from a scaf- folding ten feet high, into the area below, and his side struck a cross bar of iron. His head was slightly grazed, but there was no other visible in- jury. He was taken up breathless, and apparently dead, and in this state he was brought to the hos- pital. When received, his breathing had been, in a great measure, recovered ; fourteen ounces of blood were taken from his arm; gradually he reco- vered his senses, and as he grew better he became impatient to return to his home. He walked out of the hospital without assistance, and did not seem to suffer from the accident. The house surgeon had wished to detain him, as one or more ribs were fractured ; he applied a roller around his chest, gave him some opening medicines, with in- junctions to return if he found himself worse. On Friday, the 3d day, it was reported that he was worse, having been delirious all night. The dresser went to visit him, he found him labouring- under great difficulty of breathing, and on examin- ing his chest, he felt a slight emphysema extending over the right side. He re-applied the flannel roller, and ordered the medicine to be repeated.OF EMPHYSEMA, Hi 4? On Saturday, the 4th day, the same pupil visited him; a distinct emphysematous crepitation was to be felt, and the tumor extended widely in every direction upwards, upon the neck, and downwards over the hips, the whole being enor- mously swollen. Owing to the prodigious degree of tumefaction, combined with the deceitful feel- ing of crepitus in the integuments (the reporter adds) we could not detect a fracture. He continues.—He was at this time labouring under great difficulty of respiration : his breathing was short and hurried, and very much like that where there is effusion in the chest, with a rattling in the throat, and constant expectoration of mucus. His countenance was bloated and anxious, his pulse 120, hard and contracted; his skin hot and feverish ; he complained much of pain in his right side. Twenty ounces of blood were taken from him, which, for the time, appeared to relieve him considerably. The same gentlemen saw him at ten o’clock. It is not of want of attention that I have cause to complain. The report continues.—They now told us that the patient had once or twice jumped up quite deranged, and appeared to be suffocating; his breathing was little improved, his pulse was still hard and frequent, and the blood last drawn was deeply cupped, buffed, and firm in texture. We had no doubt of the propriety of taking away more blood; conceiving that active inflammation was going on in the chest, we bled him again to165 AND FRACTURED RIB. eighteen ounces, which as before gave him relief; the bandage was attempted to be renewed, but it could not be borne an instant, on account of the sense of suffocation it produced. The man was now lying panting and struggling for breath ; now and then he moaned, and seemed much exhausted with his exertions to get a free inspiration. The expirations rapidly succeeded the inspirations, he foamed at the mouth and was constantly spitting up frothy and yellow mucus matter. He had been sick and vomited once or twice. We left him relieved by the last bleeding; the pulse had fallen considerably. Sunday, 5th day. Soon after we left the house last night the man fainted, but he soon recovered, and passed an easier night than before. This morning he is very pale, breathes still with great difficulty, and lies half comatose: the pulse is low and quick ; the swelling of the chest, back, and neck, is increased. The blood taken last night is neither buffed nor cupped. During the rest of the day he was low and fee- ble, and seemed quite exhausted. When ques- tions were put to him, to discover the place and nature of his pain, he always referred to his right side, and complained of the oppression in his chest. We observed that his restlessness was greater at one time than another. He had no un- easiness of his head. Monday, 6th day. He passed a bad night; seemed rapidly to be sinking; was now delirious,166 OF EMPHYSEMA, and gasping at intervals; his pulse intermitted: he died at eleven o'clock this morning. Remark. If you did not know that this case occurred out of the hospital, and out of the knowledge of the surgeons, you would no doubt be surprized. If you did not know by whom this case was written, you would be surprized to see a train of symptoms so well described, and yet the nature of the acci- dent so entirely misunderstood. I have made no change upon the expressions, unless to throw out some passages on the operation of saline draughts, injections, and digitalis, which to see, on such an occasion, is abundantly provoking. Dissection. The whole trunk was extremely swollen, with emphysema, but more particularly the right side. In opening the right cavity, we accidentally punc- tured the pleura, and gave exit to a great quantity of confined air. On examining the interior, we found the right lung quite collapsed. The left side was natural, in all respects. From the right side we sponged up about four ounces of blood, which we supposed had come from one of the in- tercostal arteries. On further examination, we found a portion of the lung lacerated, and laying in contact with the rugged edges of two fractured ribs. On moving each rib individually, we saw clearly that they had both penetrated the pleura pulmona-AND FRACTURED RIB. 167 lis, and opened the air cells, making a wound equal to half a square inch. There were five other ribs fractured besides those which penetrated the lungs. The surface of the lungs was red around the part injured. The viscera of the abdomen were na- tural. Observations on the Case. I need scarcely remind you of the true nature of this case. 1. The extremity of the broken rib, wounds the surface of the lungs—2. The enlarge- ment of the walls of the chest in inspiration sucks the air through the lungs, and by successive mo- tions accumulates it in the cavity of the chest—3. The lungs are then compressed, the side is kept elevated, and the freedom of respiration is check- ed—4. The distention of the cavity more and more, is at last attended with a disturbance of the other side of the chest; for the diaphragm is thrust down, the mediastinum pushed aside, and the capacity of that other side and of the lungs conse- quently, is so diminished, that the patient is every moment in danger of suffocation. What are his suf- ferings this case strongly proves. Here then ought to have been the triumph of surgery ; for one touch with the scalpel, opening the side of the chest, and this man’s sufferings would have been instantly relieved. The distention of the right side would have been removed by the escape of the air, the diaphragm would have been free to act, and the mediastinum would have regained its place, and168 OF EMPHYSEMA, the left side of the chest would have resumed the freedom of its action. The following Case is curious, from the degree of injury, and I may say from the absence of all unfavourable symptoms. THIRD CASE OF EMPHYSEMA, FROM BROKEN RIBS. Nov. 18. Donald Riley, 60 years of age. He fell from a height of twelve feet upon some iron bars : when brought into the hospital, he was very pale and agitated, and complained of much diffi- culty of breathing, with a sharp pricking pain in the left side. On examining this part, the seventh and eighth ribs are found to be fractured. A swelling extends over all the left side of the body ; it is soft, compressible, and crepitating. Sixteen ounces of blood to be taken from the arm, and the tumor to be deeply punctured in three diffe- rent places. 19. The tumor has not increased, the air has escaped in great quantity from the punctures; al- though the crepitation can be felt further forward upon the neck, the tumefaction is less prominent. His pulse is calmer; he can now lie down. 20. He has a constant cough, which gives him pain in his side. He breathes with some diffi- culty ; pulse 70; tongue white; his bowelsFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 169 moved by the house mixture: he has an anodyne linctus, for his cough. 21. He has been sick, and vomited; he is purged. The pulse is calm . and regular; his breathing is much easier. The emphysema has not increased, but it has not in any degree dimi- nished. 25. Breathes easily; emphysema diminishing; his cough is better, but he still has pain in the side, on making a long inspiration. 28. Much of the air is absorbed, and now the body is ordered to be swathed. Dec. 4. Discharged. We have here a case intermediate betwixt the first and second, in the degree of distention of the cellular membrane by the air. The punctures were made, not to prevent the air extending further over the body, which, though a frightful looking thing, is not attended with bad consequences, but to let the. air escape more freely from the chest. If it had not had this effect, and if the breathing had not been relieved, I Avould have made an incision through the intercostal muscles, and punc- tured the pleura costalis. I have observed, in common cases, that the air has been absorbed from the cellular texture about the sixth and seventh day. I have in my last number advised my younger readers to keep Mr. AbernCthy’s works always near them. And on this subject of emphysema, it is natural that they should consult the same autho- VOL. I.—PT. II. N170 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. rity. But it is equally my duty to say that they will not, on this subject, find the distinct statement of facts, nor the lucid reasoning which in general characterizes the works of that gentleman. We find him doubting whether the lungs col- lapse when the chest is opened; of opinion that there are two states of emphysema ; and recom- mending the practice of Sir William Blizard, to bandage the chest, in order to prevent the air from escaping; and further, he combats the opinion, that the air collected on one side of the chest, oppresses the action of the opposite side. From the notions which I have heard expressed by very intelligent surgeons, on service, in the cases of wounds of the chest, it is evident to me that these opinions of Mr. Abernethy have had the effect of confounding the students’ ideas upon this subject. I hope to have an occasion of returning to it, and of explaining the experiments on respiration, which have thrown an obscurity on this matter. At pre- sent I shall only add : 1. That in slighter degrees of emphysema, the patient generally does well. The practice is as in a common case of fracture of the rib. He is bled again, as the pulse rises, or when the breath- ing is oppressed; the chest is swathed, that he may be forced to breathe with his diaphragm, and give rest to the rib. 2. That in cases where the air extends far, still it is only frightful, and nothing need be done ; but if with this there be much oppression of breathing.171 ERACtuRE OF THE SPINE. vve puncture and press out the air in the neigh- bourhood of the fractured rib. That if the patient be still oppressed, we re- lieve him by giving free exit to the air, from the side distended, and consequently permit freer action of the other side of the chest. 4. That on all occasions, when emphysema ap- pears, the patient requires to be strictly watched ; for there may come a rapid increase of difficulty of breathing and the patient be suddenly cut off. r i' .s » •* I f ‘ ‘ • . * i DISLOCATION OF ALL THE RIBS FROM THEIR CARTILAGES. Sept. 5. J. Hewing says he is 46 years of age: he appears much older; he is brought into the hospital with his sides squeezed together in a manner truly singular. In running across the horseway of a mill, thinking to take the shorter way, he was caught betwixt the beam and the wall. He was squeezed into a space of five inches, and was so wedged as to stop the horse: it was with difficulty that they got the horse back- ed so as to extricate him. When brought into the hospital, he was pale and breathless, and a cold sweat bedewed his face and body: his chest was to the feeling like a dead body where the thorax had been opened, a'nd the ster- num left loose under the integuments; for on both172 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. sides the end of each rib, at its junction with the cartilages, stood out distinctly marked and promi- nent. I concluded that the heart must have been bruised, and that he would not recover*. The clavicle of the left side was dislocated from the acromion scapulae ; he had cough, with pain in breathing; he was bled to 16 ounces, and a roller was put round his body, and the shoulders were braced back, by means of the figure of 8 bandage. 6. He passed a restless night. At present his breathing is little disturbed—indeed, he is easy, except when moved. The pulse, which was weak and fluttering last night, is now more steady; the bandage to be removed, and twelve leeches to be applied over the sternum. In the evening he felt so much additional dis- tress, from the absence of the bandage, that it was applied, and with evident relief. 12. This man remains quite free of pain; he has been bled again, but it has been in way of precaution, rather than from the presence of symp- toms. 30. He is quite well, only the ends of the ribs, on the right side, still stand prominent.—There is in a case of this kind no means of reducing the dislocation of the cartilages but by causing the patients to inspire forcibly, and no means of relief but by bleeding and by the application of a roller around the chest. * While sending this to the press, I learn that one of iny pa- tients, whose sternum was fractured, has died, after lingering, with more and more oppression, for five days.FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 173 FRACTURE OF THE RIBS NEGLECTED, AND FOLLOWED BY CARIES, AND BY SUPPURA- TION IN THE CHEST AND PERICARDIUM. ' s. ■ ' » j • ■. . .4 William Mark. In a wrestling match he was thrown, and his adversary fell upon him, striking his knee upon his side with all his weight and force. For three months he felt the consequence of this bruise, and a colourless swelling arose upon the right side of the chest, with great pain. He was a shoemaker, and during all this time he had continued to work at his trade. But as he changed his posture, and especially as he stooped and pressed the last to his breast, he felt severely the pain in the parts injured: yet it was not supposed that his ribs were broken. Six months after he re- ceived the injury, the swelling was punctured, and a Scotch pint of matter was discharged. The surgeon who opened the abscess told him that the ribs were broken. This abscess was under the pec- toral muscle, and the matter spouted to a consider- able distance, when the lancet was withdrawn. His breathing became now short and oppressed, with much inward pain. The discharge continued during the whole summer, when another abscess formed near the sternum. It was nine months after the wrestling match (to which he attributed all his sufferings) that I saw him; the following note refers to this period. ....174) FRACTUEE OF THE SEINE. The abscess on the chest has been opened again, and now the several holes on the side of the chest are the mouths of sinuses,communicating with each other, and leading to the surfaces of several carious ribs. Attempts might be made to diminish the extent of these suppurating cavities, by drawing a seton through them, and using the restrictive ban- dage, but the cause would remain in the diseased ribs ; besides, there is reason to suppose that there is abscess within the chest, as well as pn the out- side. Three months after the first Report we have the following. The symptoms are those of confirmed hectic, from suppuration within the lungs. For weeks past he has had incessant purging, and he is now weak, and hardly able to crawl to stool, and the quantity of matter expectorated, threatens to suffocate fum. Dissection. The principal external abscess was found under the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor muscles. The third and fourth ribs were fractured, and their surfaces were bare and carious to some extent; the bones were black, spongy, and immersed in foetid matter. On opening the abdomen, the liver was found to have retreated altogether under the mar- gin of the ribs, and the diaphragm to be drawn up very high. This was explained, when upon open- ing the thorax, the lungs of the right side wereFRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 1?5 found adhering to the inside of the ribs; they were firm, being consolidated by inflammation, and by ■ this means the cavity of the chest was diminished, and consequently the diaphragm drawn up. The lungs were seen adhering to the pericardium, and that sac itself was inflamed and thickened, and distended with a purulent serum. The surface of the heart itself was rough with coagulablelymph and pus. And now it was found that the lungs of the right side contained a large abscess, which wasincon- nexion with the communication betwixt the carious ribs, and it proved to have been from this abscess that the copious discharge of matter had flowed out in the dressing of the outward wound. With this abscess in the lungs, the cavity of the pericardium communicated, by means of an ulcerated hole in that membrane. The lungs of the left side, and what remained of the lungs of the right side, ex- ternal to the line of adhesion, caused by the irrita- tion of the carious ribs, were free from all disease. Remarks on the preceding Case. Some were of opinion that the ribs had not been fractured in this case ; but that the part in contact with the ribs having been bruised,suppurated; that the matter lying in contact with the bones, had made them carious. But, without entering into the ques- tion, whether or not the contact of matter will pro- duce such an effect on the surface of bone, I am of opinion that pus formed by a bruise in the side would not thus propagate itself in succession to176 FRACTURE OF T1IE SPINE. the ribs, the pleura, the lungs, the heart. On dis- section, I found the ribs fractured, and rough with caries, and with irregular projecting points of bone. There was not cause sufficient to account for the fracture of the ribs, but in the first accident: and besides, a surgeon in the country, on first opening the abscess, had declared to the patient, that his ribs were fractured. I have no hesitation in saying, that we have here an example of the formidable consequences of neglected fracture of the ribs. This young man continuing to go about his usual occupations, and work at his trade of a shoemaker, kept the broken ends of the ribs jarring and rubbing against each other. By which continued attrition, an inflam- matory process was kept up, and matter formed around the fractured extremities. This, in process of time, we have seen to have affected the parts both within the chest, and the cellular substance on the outside, subjacent to the pectoral muscles. The cause of the great extent of the suppuration was in the continuance of the irritation. And if it be said that such a consequence would not have arisen, but in a scrofulous patient, I may admit it, and add, do not scrofulous patients break their ribs ? and is it not most necessary, seeing these conse- quences, that the patient be carefully treated and watched in the first two or three weeks, and espe- cially, that the broken extremities of the ribs be kept at rest by the swathing of the chest.177 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. • It was particularly distressing to see, this last week, a child in the waiting room with an abscess on the lower part of its neck, which had burst, and shewn its connexion with a broken clavicle. The careless wretch, its mother, had neglected the child, permitted it to use the arm unrestrained by a bandage, and this abscess and sore over the clavicle was the consequence. SIXTH REPORT. CONTAINING CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The first series of these cases is illustrative of the manner in which incarceration and strangulation of the intestine take place. The succeeding cases explain the nature of the sac in this hernia, and the last refer to the treatment of the mortified in- testine. If the rising class of surgical pupils do not prove to be better practical surgeons than those who have preceded them, it must be owing to their teachers, and the wrong methods we take with them. I have witnessed the utmost anxiety of the students, to acquire a knowledge of hernia. Night and day have I seen them labouring at the dissec- tion of the fasciae. It is an investigation worthy their best endeavours ; it is of much consequence178 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. to follow a description with the edge of the knife ; foritgives a precision to themotionsof the surgeon’s hand. But having made himself master of all the fasciae and ligaments, I would tell the pupil he hap still to commence the study of hernia, which has very little to do with the natural anatomy. What is it that oppresses the mind of the just man and judicious surgeon on this very head? what is it that he revolves anxiously in his mind, is it the difficulties of the operation, the question of what produces the stricture, the thoughts of how many coverings the tumour has, or the place of the epigastric artery ? No, it is this great question, when should the operation be performed ? am I authorized to take the knife now ? and have I not let the decisive moment pass ! These are the ques- tions to which all others are of minor consideration. I have seen the operation of hernia performed rashly, tediously, awkwardly, even ignorantly; but always with effect, if the surgeon were right in the grand matter of time. To be able to distinguish symptoms, we must attend particularly to their cause, which is in the intestine. The changes to which the intestine is subject, has not been inquired into, with all that diligence which has been so happily exercised in regard to the anatomy of the rings. I have in the following cases stated some occur- rences in practice, which reflect light on the pathology of hernia ; a subject which I had longCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 179 since unsuccessfully endeavoured to illustrate, by experiments on brutes. In vain I had endeavoured to noose the intestine of dogs and cats, and pro- duce upon them the effects of strangulation. When the intestine was surrounded with a cord, the cord was in a few days carried within the in- testine, and when the noose of string was made to embrace a turn of the intestine, instead of produc- ing turgescence and strangulation, it was found to c,ut the coats; and, as the cord cut its way into the intestine, a new membrane covered it so that there was no breach in the intestine, and the alimentary matter, continued to be carried in its course, these cruelties were therefore of no avail.* The futility of experiments on animals, when brought in illustration of the morbid changes of the human body, makes even a single fact observed in practice valuable; and I am well convinced by many failures, as well as by what I have observed in my friends, that it is in vain, by experiment on brutes, to anticipate the years of practice and actual observation. We may consider the intestine, in a hernia, as subject to four different conditions: I. It lies in the sac, its function continues, and there is no impediment to the alimentary matter: 2. It is in- cluded in the sac, and retained by adhesion ; but it performs its function without interruption: 3. It is retained in the sac by incarceration, that is, in •’ , •• : . —rs-r • —— ' “ - ,v~ * See preparations in the Museum illustrative of this.180 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. consequence of its distention ; but there is on stricture on the blood vessels of the intestine: 4. The intestine is strangulated, which is that state, when not only the alimentary matter is ob- structed in the canal, but when the blood in the vessels is also obstructed, and there is momentary danger of mortification. Without attending to these last distinctions, it is not possible to comprehend how the circum- stances of cases differ essentially, while they are attended by exactly similar symptoms; or how a patient shall labour under signs of danger for many days, and recover; while another shall be cut off from hope, in as many hours. It is meant to limit the subject, in the first place, to this consideration of the change from incarceration to strangulation of the intestine ; that is, from the state of obstruction of the alimentary matter in the canal, to obstruc- tion of the circulation and consequent mortification of the gut. We often find, in dissecting-room subjects, a small process of the peritoneum, like the finger of a glove, pushed into the abdominal openings, and empty. This is the first stage of the formation of a hernia, and I believe that even in the cases where the gut comes down suddenly, during vio- lent exertion, there is a partial descent previ- ously existing, making a predisposition to a more formidable rupture. The progress of the hernia is probably in this manner: a portion of the intes- tine, or small part of the omentum, is pushedCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 181 into the passage carrying the. peritoneum before it. No bad consequence follows, because the intes- tine is withdrawn by its own action. But after this partial protrusion of the intestine has taken place several times, it is at last urged further, and the peritoneum bursts through the remaining con- finement, and appears without the wall of the ab- domen ; then it forms a sac, for it is permitted to expand; the gut consequently is allowed to dis- tend, and then incarceration and strangulation may succeed. It is the object of the following case to ex- plain the manner in which the gut fills. FIRST CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. IN A WOMAN. A woman of 35 years of age was received into the physicians’ ward, on account of enteritis: the apothecary, after hearing the account of symp- toms, very properly inquired if there were any thing wrong in the groin ; which the patient stoutly denied; but the old mother, who was with her, cried out that there was, and something very bad in- deed ! which proved to be the case. On being called to examine her, I found her pulse quick and weak, her features sharp and ca- daverous, her eyes wild. She moaned, and was182 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. in pain, the expression of it being subdued through complete exhaustion. The belly was tu- mid, not hard: it was tender, and the tenderness was greatest near the groin; she described the pain as rolling from side to side in her bowels. There was a tumor in the groin, and when she coughed, the percussion reached the tumor, al- though she coughed feebly. I learned, wit-la some difficulty, that the swelling in the groin came dur- ing a strain, and that it preceded all the train of distressing symptoms: by her description, she must have had stercoraceous vomitings for some time. Upon examining the tumor, I satisfied my- self that it was a femoral hernia, and I saw plainly that it was not in a state for me to attempt reduc- tion by pressure, without increasing the danger. Although the gentleman who accompanied the patient into the hospital said, very simply, “ I gave it a squeeze myself, Sir, before I thought of troubling you,” yet I believe the parts had not suffered at all by this squeeze, and hernia had un- fortunately never before then, been suspected to be the cause of the symptoms. The circumstances of the operation need not be further detailed than to observe, that there was no- thing of that inflammation of the integunietits and investing membranes, which we find in the last stage of hernia, where repeated attempts have been made to reduce it; and the vessels whichCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 183 were cut across were inactive, and did not bleed freely, although they were of a size that we could discern their orifices. The peritoneal sac was so weak that in pinching it up with the forceps (intending to cut it by car- rying the knife horizontally), it burst, and dark serum was discharged. The portion of the intestine included in the stricture formed a body an inch and a half in dia- meter, and was perfectly globular. It was of a dark reddish, brown colour, and adhered by coagulable lymph to the neck of the sac, on the side towards the ilium ; a lacteal vessel was visible on the sur- face ; it was large and tortuous, and loaded with colourless matter. On separating the neck of the sac from the gut, which I did by drawing up the neck of the sac with my finger and thumb, a little matter exuded, which I hoped, from its consistence, might be pus ; but on smelling it, the deplorable nature of the case was made evident: it was faeculent. This matter came so directly from under the sharp stric- ture, that I could not at first determine whether it came from the gut, or from the cavity of the ab- domen. Having cut the sharp' edge of the stricture, and disengaged the gut from its firm embrace, I drew the intestine gently down. When this was done, there appeared no opening, but only a dark sloughy spot, obscured by coagulable lymph, nor could I find the passage into the gut with the184- CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA/ point of the probe ; I therefore pressed upon the belly, when liquid faeces came out from the" sloughy spot of the intestine, and I knew that the faeculent matter had originally come from this opening. I next pressed the portion of the gut which had been included in the hernial sac, and which till now retained its globular form ; from this portion of the gut there flowed nothing but a clear mucus, of the consistence and appearance of jelly, which had been shaken or broken down. This mucus proved to be the whole contents of this portion of the intestine, and when it was pressed out, the intestine was flat, and could have- been reduced. I brought down the torn part of the gut, so as to prevent the faeces escaping into the abdomen. I saw the patient dying; the dis- charge of faeces showed me there was no immedi- ate occasion to do more. I dressed the parts lightly, waited to see her recover, but she conti- nued to sink *. The nature of the matter contained within the gut gives us proof of the manner in which those very small portions of the gut fill by their secre- tions, and we may follow the changes thus : 1. The portion of the intestine was pushed down when the young woman strained herself: for a time the intestine lay empty, and the stric- ture was so tight that no alimentary matter was admitted into it. 2. But the tightness with * See Concluding Remarks on this subject.185 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA^ which the stricture embraced the intestine was not so great as to stop the circulation of the blood in the vessels of the intestine. The intestine, therefore, remained alive, and in no danger of strangulation, while it remained empty. 3. The vessels, however, continuing to secrete into the cavity of the intestine, such an accumulation of mucus was at last produced, that the portion of the intestine became fully distended, and then there was imminent danger of strangulation. 4. As the included portion of the intestine became filled, the angle of reflection formed over the sharp edge of the stricture, increasing every hour, the coats became so tightly drawn against the edge of the stricture, that they wrere first gorged with stagnant blood, and, finally, the circulation was stopped. Strangulation then took place, and mortification, or the ulceration of the intestine by pressure against the tendon. Thus we may see how an intestine strangulates itself; how it fills by its own secretions, until an effect is produced equal to the binding of the stricture, although the tendon be passive, and of a nature not liable to change. The stricture ope- rates in retarding the free return of the blood by the veins of the intestine, and the consequence i9 not only a distention of the intestine with secreted fluid, but an infiltration into the coats of the in- testine, which produces a thickness in them, and a sensation to the feeling of fleshiness in singular contrast with that part of the gut em- VOL. I. PT. II. O186 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. braced by the stricture. I have observed, that in this case there was a turgid lacteal seen upon the surface of the strangulated intestine. In the state of mere incarceration, no doubt these vessels are active, and retard that perfect fulness which proves so fatal: but by the increasing tightness betwixt the intestine and the neck of the sac, the larger lacteals must loose their office, and partake of the general turgescence. I beg my reader’s attention to one circumstance of this last case. We see here the necessity of drawing down the intestine before attempting the reduction; not only to bring the firmer part of the gut opposite to the stricture, but to examine the part, for in such a case as this, if the intestine were to be reduced, the faeces would be freely discharged into the cavity of the abdomen. In hernia, the signs of danger—the hiccough, the vomiting of faeces, the filling of the belly, the tormina, have not a direct relation to the strangulation of the gut, nor to the state of the gut included in the herniary sac. These signs proceed principally from the state of distention of the bowels within the belly, and are a consequence of the obstruction ; they do not, therefore, accord with the actual danger, in as far as that danger de- pends on the inflammation or mortification of the gut included in the hernial sac* As obstruction and consequent fulness of the intestinal canal are the sources of the more urgentCASES OP FEMORAL HERNIA. 187 symptoms, so we find that when the vomiting is free, and the discharge by this means copious, the other symptoms are in a less alarming degree, of which the following case is an example. II. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA IN A MA# RENDERED OBSCURE BY AN INGUINAL HERNIA, AND THE PATIENT LOST BY THE UNIMPRESSIVE CHARACTER OF THE SYMl'*1 TOMS. A gentleman 63 years of age, and living at the time thirty miles out of London, perceived a small tumour in his groin. This swelling coming in circumstances which, to his confused notions, gave him the idea of its being a venereal bubo, although he had pain and vomiting from the com- mencement, he threw himself into a mail-coach, and came to town. This gentleman first felt the tumour on Saturday morning, he came to town on Sunday, and I was called into consultation on Monday, after my lecture ; I found him sitting in his parlour, drinking a large basin of tea; and as he was receiving his friends, I heard them com- pliment him upon his good looks. There was, to my observation, an unnatural excitement about him. He was animated and restless. I saw him vomit the tea which he had beeh drinking, and the vomiting Was easy, and without distress, or such exertion of retching as accompanies a com- mon fit of sickness. o 2188 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. Still my patient was of opinion that his conv plaint was a bubo. 1 examined and found a tu- mour, which, though occupying the place of in- guinal hernia, I thought came from under the fe- moral ligament; and so certain was I that it was a hernia, that I laid him down upon a sofa, and en- deavoured to reduce it. I desisted, and ordered him a stimulant enema. I returned about three hours after. I became alarmed. I ordered the fa- mily to be informed of his danger, and requested the surgeon, in whose opinion I had nearly an ab- solute reliance, to be sent for. In the mean time, I took my patient in a sedan chair to the hot bath, and there made some further attempts to reduce the intestine. We met in the evening, and the gentleman for whose advice I had anxiously waited, said, that he did not conceive that the case was hernia! the operation was, therefore, at this meeting out of the question. We met again next day at one o’clock. I had, in the interval, seen the patient, and from the continuance of symptoms, the man- ner of his vomiting great quantities of fluid with little distress, I conceived that we would be of one opinion, and I had my assistant, with instru- ments, in waiting. We now agreed that it was a hernia; but my senior consultant saw no occa- sion for the operation. There were no pressing symptoms, no sign of strangulation, no apology for hurry. He was to leave town, and proposed to meet me the second day hereafter. The patientCASKS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 189 died the succeeding day. His strength held up until the tobacco clyster was administered to him, after which he very suddenly fell low, and sunk. Upon examining the body, I found an inguinal hernia, and concealed by it, and under a load of fat, 1 found a small portion of intestine, strangu- lated by the femoral ligament. This was the cause of death ; and the journey in a coach over thirty miles of bad road had been decisive of his fate. This was a great mortification to me, and I need not add, that I felt I should have been more decided. It was not the first example of the kind which I had seen. III. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA ALLOAVED TO SLOUGH. I witnessed a difference of opinion on the oc- casion of an obscure tumour in the groin : some said it was a bubo ; some that it was a hernia. The patient naturally sided with those who were against operating, arose from bed, and contrived to walk five miles with a hernia, in the last stage of strangulation. Hearing that he died, I fol- lowed him, and on dissection found the included intestine a putrid rag! How much happier are the poor, who are ad- mitted to a well-regulated hospital ! how often have we to wish that our rich patients were laid on a pallet and iron bedstead, where the dictates ofJ90 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. sound reason and humanity might have free exer- cise. IV. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA.—OPERATION SUCCESSFUL. Holden. French Ward. See p. 111.—In visit- ing this patient, he tells me his rupture has come down, and that he cannot return it. I find a small soft tumour in the left groin, with a neck com- ing from under Poupart’s ligament. I have not been able to reduce it. I have made the patient continue to press his hand gently against it. He is ordered to be bled, and put into the warm bath, and then the house surgeon is ordered to try gentle and long continued pressure on the hernia. In the evening it was announced to me that the hernia was strangulated, and the patient very ill, I found him in great pain, but without much ten- sion pf belly ; no hiccough, no vomiting, but only pain in the belly. I madp an effort to com- press and reduce the tumour, but did not succeed. P«arge clysters had been repeatedly administered. Aware of his danger, yet considering the short time the tumour had been down, its softness, and the absence of tension and sickness, I thought it bet- ter to let him lie for the night. R. 01. Ricini ^ss, Vitelli ovi, Aq. Menth pep. ^j. Tinct. Opii gtt, viii. Capiat haustus et rep. Enerua,CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 19] June 2Mh. This morning I found he had put on his truss, insisting that the tumour had gone up. He expresses a desire to go home: but the hernia is not reduced. The evacuation he has had is only of the lower part of the gut. He is alarmed, and the truth is no longer to be got from him. Repeat the castor oil. 25th. He has been vomiting ; no relief down- wards. Six o'clock. The tumour is harder: he has had faeculent evacuations, from a large enema of solution of neutral salts and senna. He has vomited a chamber-pot full of fluid. I saw him vomit just now: he does it easily, emptying his stomach with little exertion. I asked him if he was as sick as at some former times, when his sto- mach was disordered. No, he said, he was not very sick. He has hiccough. A consultation being called, and the symptoms still continuing, the operation was determined on, for these reasons—1. The tumour harder, and no hope of reducing it: 2. The countenance more shrunk, and the pulse quicker: 3. The peculiar nature of the vomiting. Operation. The incision was begun an inch and a half above the Poupart ligament*, and continued be- * It is necessary in this operation to have room upwards, and to clear the ligament on the neck of the sac.CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 192 low the tumour*; a small artery was cut, a branch of the epigastrica superficialis : a consi- derable quantity of fat lay over the tumour, which, when it was cleared away, the tumour appeared so distinct and round, that it did not seem to the spectators to have any fascia covering it.—Several successive layers were dissected, by raising the membrane with the forceps, and carrying the knife horizontally, then introducing the directory, and cutting upon the groove; the last layer was so strong and tense, that it was difficult to catch it with the forceps and pinch it up. On exposing the gut, a very small portion of bloody serum escaped, and the gut rose freer from its bed. The colour of the intestine was like a ripe cherryj'; there was a slight degree of fleeciness on the sur- face, but no adhesion had formed. The portion of intestine was so closely embraced that it could not be drawn down, to extricate the part long pressed, and consequently tender from the embrace of the stricture. The stricture being cut with the probe pointed bistoury and directory^, a portion of the intestine was then * Because it was small and deep, and required to be fully disclosed. t When in a degree further advanced, the small knuckle of intestine more resembles, in form and colour, a small plum. t The semicircular connexion established betwixt the Pou- part’s ligament, and the sheath of the vessels of the thigh. Op. Surgery, Vol. I., p. 286. It is more accurately stated in a pupil’s case book. Mr. B. introduced a directory rather on theCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 193 drawn down; and here a remarkable contrast was observable, betwixt the portion long included in the hernia, and that newly brought down, in the paleness of the latter, and the dark red of the for- mer. The intestine being now gently pressed, the' contents went up, and the flat piece of gut was easily reduced. No stitches were used, the inte- guments wTere brought together by adhesive straps, on these a compress was laid, over this a broad strap, then a compress soft and like a cushion, and finally the double headed roller was applied. 6th. The patient’s countenance much improved; he has had two full evacuations. 7th. The evacuations are as they ought to be, but his tongue is parched; he has great thirst; his pulse is frequent; he has no appetite ; he is des- ponding, and “ wishes it were all over." It is needless to follow the account of this case, for the symptoms were mixed, as the patient was at the same time suffering from an abscess in the peri- neum ; he recovered, without a bad symptom re- curring in any way connected with his rupture. When a small portion of intestine is strangulated, mortified and burst, the faeces are freely dis- charged, and faeces being found in the sac, we are led to suppose that they formed the contents of the strangulated portion of the intestine. But the pubic side of the gut, and cut a very small part of the deep fascia, having passed the straight bistoury along the groove, he raised his hand and cut the edge of the fascia ; after this, relax- ing the parts, by raising the thigh, the gut was easily reduced.194- CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. faeces come from the intestines which are within the belly. The circumstances of the first case very well illustrate this fact, that the strangula- tion is from the distention and consequent form of the intestine, not proceeding from the direct conse- quence of the stricture, since as soon as the dis- tended intestine bursts, the contents of the intes- tinal canal have free egress. I shall give another example, although the case be one of familiar oc- currence. V. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA, EXPRESSIVE OP THE WORST SYMPTOMS, AND OF THE STATE OF THE INTESTINE IN MORTIFICATION. Mary Lane, set. 52, is just now admitted into the hospital. She has been subject to hernia for some years ; formerly, when the swelling appeared, she could always push it up ; but last Thursday it came down after a hard day's work at the washing tub, and she has not since been able to reduce it. From the time it came down, she has been sick, and what she has vomited has had a faeculent smell. This is the sixth day, and now, for the first time, she has seen a surgeon. An irregular tumour extends from the pubes to within two inches of the superior spinous process of the ilium of the right side, a blush is over the whole surface of the tumour, and it feels irregularly hard, like the caking of the integuments around aCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 195 diseased gland. There is an appearance, as of the pointing of an abscess, for there is a point more prominent and soft, and evidently containing fluid. On further examination, there is crepitus; it is not a watery fluid, but air which is contained within this part of the tumour. This poor woman’s face indicates that there is no hope. There is a character of the eyes, declaring that she is struck with death ; the features are shrunk. The belly is tumid, but soft and painful on pressure; the pulse is small and quick. She had an evacuation from the bowels last night, which, however, pn inquiry, proves to have been in very small quantity. While preparing for opera- tion, she has one of her attacks, which come in paroxysms ; during it she rolls in bed, and cries aloud, which, with the death-like aspect of her face, declares her extremity; during these pa- roxysms her pulse is not to be felt. In operation, unusual difficulty was experienced in dissecting back the skin from the tumour, for it was thickened and condensed by inflammation. But having exposed the tumour, the soft and prominent part of it was found to be a vesicle, thin and dis- tended with air, and which, both in colour and the character of its vessels, had a remarkable resemblance to a portion of intestine. Layer after layer of this thin membrane being lifted on the directory, it burst, and discharged a fluid of the consistence of cream, yellow, and very foetid, evidently feculent. I laid open the sac, let out more pus and air.196 CASES OF femora! hernia. and faeces, and then appeared the intestine, shrunk and flat, and covered with coagulable lymph. From which latter circumstance, it bore so faint a resemblance, either to the natural intestine, or to what is usually found in strangulated hernia, that I saw the necessity of pointing it out to the sur- rounding pupils. When the parts were sponged clean, I did not discover the holes from which the faeces came; but on pressing the belly, liquid faeces exuded freely, by three small holes in the intestine. I need not carry this case much further. I opened the intestine; the faeces were discharged through the opening; there was no necessity of stitching the intestine; it was adhering. She died next morning. Here was the proof, I sought, of the passage of the faeces being free, as soon as the intestine burst, and therefore shewing that the obstruction to the course of the alimentary matter, as well as the ob- struction to the blood in the strangulated gut, is owing to the distention of the intestine itself, and to the form it assumes, and that in suffering these changes, the stricture is still passive, and that the passage under the ligament remains capable of trans- mitting the alimentary matter as before strangula- tion took place. I have now, I hope, fulfilled my first object, which was to place these points of the pathology of femoral hernia distinctly before the profession. I hope that I have proved that incarceration resultsCASES OE FEMORAL HERNIA. 197 from the sudden angle which the included intes- tine forms. And that when this has taken place the danger is imminent from a cause not hitherto noticed, viz. the secretion of the intestine itself. From the cause of strangulation, being in the secretion of the intestine two consequences are ap- parent, viz. the greater danger attending small her- nia, and the necessary increase of the danger as time elapses. While we are left to suppose that the intes- tine is merely full of faeces, which neither admits of increase nor diminution, we might be inclined to temporise; but if we understand that when a small portion of intestine is retained in a stricture, that it is filling by its own secretion, we see a fur- ther motive to early operation. The next point which I have ventured to urge, is the danger of the rule to wait for symptoms. It has been my purpose to show that the symptoms have no correct bearing to the urgency of the case, and that they do not proceed from the state of the strangulated intestine, but from the general distention and excitement of the canal above the strangulated portion. Tormina-sickness and vomit- ing, and tension of the belly, even the character of the countenance, and the frequency and feebleness of the pulse, depend on the state of the bowels gene- rally, and we find them in excess, while yet the intestine in the sac is natural; on the other hand, we find the whole of these symptoms but little urgent, when the intestine is fast approaching to gangrene. To wait for symptoms is therefore to198 CASES OF FEMORAL ftERNlA. wait for the gangrene of the gut. The conclusion is obvious, we must study the distinctions as they are afforded us in examining the tumour; we must accustom ourselves to determine by the place, shape, sign, and hardness of the herniary tumour, whether an operation shall be required or not; when we have ascertained the tumour to be a hernia, when this tumour can not be reduced by the hand, and when the symptoms announce that the canal is obstructed, the sooner the operation is performed the better. VI. CASE OF GRACE GLOVER. FEMORAL HER- NIA, WHERE STERCORACEOUS VOMITING CONTINUED FOR TEN DAYS THE PATIENT REDUCED TO A STATE OF INSENSIBILITY— SAVED BY THE OPERATION. £.Infirmary of Edinburgh.] The next case of this series Which I shall present to my reader, was the first in which I publickly operated; and as the notes were taken very fully, I am in hopes an extract from them may prove useful in supporting our hopes during the most threatening symptoms of mortification. This woman is thirty years of age. About seven years ago she lay-in of her eighth child ; and three weeks after her confinement, in raising her washing tub, she found something came suddenly down into her groin. It produced pain as severe as a la-CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. I99 hour pain, and continued with this degree of viol- ence for two hours ; and then she says, it went up, and she was as suddenly relieved as on the delivery of her child. About two months after this,she had a return of the rupture, with the same excessive pain. From this time she could not take her infant in her arms without danger of bringing down the rupture. These attacks continued for three years; after which she had a period of the same length without experiencing any inconvenience. But one day, after a long walk, she found the swelling descend again, and she became subject as formerly to its frequent return. When it descended, although it was painful, she could always force it up, until Saturday last. On this day, she was sitting down to breakfast, when she was attacked with pain, and found the old swelling had come into her groin. She tried her usual applications, but they all failed. The pain became intolerable, and it continued night and day; and for a fortnight she was in this state of suffering and without evacuation. This is her condition since she has been brought into the hospital. In the right groin there is a small tumour, compressible, and retaining for some time the impression of the finger ; when touched it gives exquisite pain : purgatives and clysters of the most stimulating kind have been given without procuring stool; and she has had stercoraceous vo- miting for ten days. An operation was immediately undertaken, but without much hope of success.200 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. I shall here transcribe Mr. John Bell's note on the case book. “ I have seen many desperate herniae, but never one where the patient’s death seemed so inevitable, so certainly prognosticated by the symptoms. I expected her to expire even upon the operation table; and as my brother was the operator, and myself the assistant, I was anx- ious that the consultation should be drawn out rather in the form of a protest, representing the operation as a necessary duty, but as a desperate attempt.” She had the symptoms of internal gan- grene ; her voice was quite gone ; her cheeks were hollow ; her visage ghastly ; her eyes turned up, and her eye-lids half open. Her arms lay still by her side, unless moved by the attendants ; her hands were cold : her pulse quite thready, but equal and not intermitting. She was quite sunk and insen- sible, only screamed out deliriously, when she found herself laid amidst assistants. Operation. This poor creature,quite delirious,and apparently dying, was laid upon the table. The carrying her, roused her to that state of wild and disorderly viol- ence, which makes our duty so painful : it had nearly prevented me fulfilling it on this occasion. A Ions: incision was carried over the tumour, be- ginning pretty high up. The hernia now appeared covered with its fascia, and that being divided, the hernia somewhat flattened before, sprung up. The sac and its contents now appeared; but it was aCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 201 tumour which still required a little dissection before it could be understood. It was dissected all around, and still it presented more of the form of a tumour than of a hernia, as described by authors ;* for it hung like a glandular tumour, pendulous by its narrow neck or funiculus of vessels. Proceeding to open the sac, the omentum pre- sented of a dingy straw colour, very hard and con- densed by the pressure; and this mass, so unlike the natural omentum, looked as if we had only got into the heart of a tumour. The omentum being drawn out and unfolded, it seemed to occupy the sac so entirely, that the gut might have escaped my notice ; but on careful ex- amination, I found lurking behind and under the omentum, a small knuckle or single turn of the' intestine. Without the conviction from the symp- toms of there being a portion of the canal strangu- lated, and which led to a careful examination, the gut might have escaped us. It was of a dark colour and gorged with blood. The finger was now pushed up to the neck of the sac, which was extremely narrow ; the bistoury was introduced upon the finger, and a touch, the very slightest imaginable, a nick of the knife, just sen- sible, and which would hardly have appeared on * This is improper; for if the outside of the herniary sac be thus separated, it must slough after the reduction, being deprived of its vessels. VOL. J.—PT. II. P202 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA; dissection was sufficient.* The gut went up easily; and after it the omentum was reduced. The alarming symptoms in this woman, and which indeed continued, or returned at intervals for three weeks after the operation, were as follows: faintings, languor, vomiting, frequent low delirium, the eye being sunk, and the countenance cada- verous. There was much tension of the abdomen, with a tenderness so great, that she could not bear the touch of the clothes: then came diarrhoea, which threatened to extinguish her remaining powers. From this state of abdominal inflamma- tion, she was saved, as it seemed to me, by cover- ing the whole abdomen with blisters. Blisters, with leeches applied around them, and the warm bath, and opiates, are, in these circumstances, the means most to be relied on. * I have again to observe, that it is the acute angle of inflec- tion made by the gut, more than the narrowness of the stricture, which causes the difficulty of reduction in the femoral hernia. When the operation of cutting the stricture is done to no greater extent than is sufficient to let the flatus of the intestine, or the liquid contents of the intestine be returned into the canal within, there is no danger of cutting any important part. When the neck of the sac is cut, and with it, a quarter of an inch of the acute edge of the ligamentous arch, it will be sufficient; though all this ligamentous part may be safely cut up, to the commence- ment of the Poupart ligament. But there is a manner of doing this operation which is so natural and so safe, that I am sure many must have done it though they have not described it: hav- ing cut a little upward, and that proving insufficient, do not prolong the first incision to a dangerous length, but direct the edge of the knife differently, to the inside or to the outside.CASES GP FEMORAL HERNIA. 203 My reader after perusing this case, will perhaps look back to the symptoms described in the second case. The symptoms assigned to mortification were here very distinctly marked ; and the reason is obvious. These signs proceed from the state of general disorder of the intestines within the belly, obstructed and suffering from the accumulation. The portion of the intestine in the sac, was saved by being surrounded by the omentum, which prevent- ed it rising in a sharp turn round the margin of the ligament, and saved it from being cut on the edge of the ligament, as happened in some of the preced- ing cases. VII. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA ADHESION OF THE INTESTINE TO THE SAC—THE OPERA- TION SUCCESSFUL. A Surgeon reported one of his patients to have hernia, wrhich he found was strangulated, and de- sired that she might be admitted. She was not brought into the hospital till the next day, and in the mean time, she had a smart dose of jalap and calomel given to her [* 1]. When received into the hospital, a small Femo- ral Hernia was discovered : her belly was much distended ; she vomited frequently ; she had pain on pressing the belly, within the ligament. Such are the symptoms which would influence me im- p2'CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 204 mediately to undertake the operation. But it was reported that she had evacuation downward. On this account the operation was deferred. Consultation. 10 in the Evening. The symptoms continue: the belly swelling more ; the tumour not harder, but distinctly pinch- ed ; and the neck of the sac exceedingly narrow. The determination depended on the answers to two questions: 1. Had every thing been tried ? Yes, she had been bled and had been put into the bath, and had had large stimulating enemae, and the taxis had been repeatedly attempted. 2. Had she relief in her bowels ? No : the reports had been vague ; but now it appeared there was nothing returned with the enemae. These answers being received, the operation was determined upon immediately; for although the tumour was not hard, yet the vomit- ing continuing, attended with a tense belly, pain on pressure, and that pain felt especially at the neck of the sac ; there was no time to lose. [* 2.] During the operation, * it was remarked, that the fascia [* 3.] was particularly thin, so that being opened, it so much resembled the peritoneum, that the pupils, some of them very conversant with this subject, supposed the peritoneal sac [* 4.] to be the gut itself. But the peritoneal sac being pinched up with the forceps, burst like a bubble, and a quantity of clear serum jetted out. And now * The operation was performed by Mr. Cartwright.CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 205 the gut was found but very little distended ; not at all discoloured, and adhering by means of coagulable lymph to the neck and great part of the inside of the sac. £*5] I think I never saw the stricture on the neck of the sac so narrow. It required time and the ut- most nicety to insinuate the directory. It could only be introduced on the side of the stricture towards the pubes. The probe-pointed bistoury being introduced upon the groove of the directory, and the stricture cut, it was not difficult to reduce the small portion of the intestine ; for the coagulable lymph was as yet soft which formed the adhesion. The moment this was done, the serum rushed from the abdomen, and the stream of fluid catch- ing tbe edge of the sac, made a beautiful exhibition of it; for it appeared like a hydatid, it was so thin and delicate. On the third day, there arose pain and swelling in the abdomen ; it was partial, so that the part she complained of, could be covered with the hand. This yielded to leeches and a large blister; and she is now doing well. Remarks on the last Case. * 1. It is very dangerous practice, to give drastic purges, when the intestine is strangulated ; it overworks the intestines, which have no means of unloading themselves. May we attribute to this, the quantity of serum which was collected in the bel- ly, and which ran out after the reduction of the gut.206 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. *2. When we have ascertained that there is a hernia ; that it produces vomiting ; that it prevents evacuation downward; that it cannot be reduced ; there is danger after this, in every moment of delay. Mr. Cooper has said, that if he were himself the subject of strangulated crural hernia, he would only try the effect of the tobacco clyster, and if that did not succeed, he would have the operation performed in twelve hours. If by strangulation be meant here, that tightness which deprives the gut of circulation, twelve hours is a fearful length of time. The expression seems precise; but from what period are we to count the hours ? Is it from the first coming down of the hernia ? Is it from the time of the last evacuation—Is it from the commencement of pain and sickness ? When symptoms announce the canal to be ob- structed, and when we feel a small hard herniary tumour rising from under Poupart’s ligament; when we have failed to reduce that tumour by the taxis, aided by bleeding, large purgative clysters, and the relaxation or deliquium induced by the warm bath—lose not a moment in performing the operation with the knife, for the danger is immi- nent. * 3. This envelope ought not to be called a fascia. It is the cellular membrane, which the peritoneum pushes before it in its descent, con- densed and become firm ; and accordingly it sur- rounds it on all sides, and has a narrow neck like a bottle. *4, The proper sac of the femoral hernia, isCASES OP FEMORAL HERNIA. 207 purely the peritoneum, and instead of being thick- er than that membrane, it is transparent, and very delicate. It is not easily distinguished from the intestine, unless it be from the conviction of the Surgeon, that he has not previously divided the peritoneum, and by the superficial and long course of the vessels which are visible upon its surface. * 5. My reader will observe that I here state a fact, at variance with the theory which I have offered in the preceding pages. Here is strangula- tion without distention of the gut in the hernia. There are some other circumstances here which may be worthy of attention : viz. the gut was not discoloured, and it was coated with coagulable lymph. I attribute the lesser degree of fulness in this portion of intestine, to the distention of the sac with serum; for although the whole tumour was very small, fully an ounce of liquid escaped from it when the sac burst, consequently the intestine could not assume its usual rounded and distended form. VIII. CASE OF FEMORAL HERNIA, WHERE THE SAC WAS REDUCED ALONG WITH THE IN- TESTINE, THE OPERATION SUCCESSFUL. I was requested to give my opinion on a case of strangulated hernia. I found a woman of 46 years of age, with a tumour in the place ot femoral hernia. It was circumscribed, smooth, elastic, and I could feel the neck of the tumour going under208 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. the ligamentous arch of the thigh. The belly near the neck of the sac was tender on pres- sure [*]. On inquiry I found that she had been subject to a rupture for five years; but that heretofore she 'could always put it up. That on the preceding day, in the morning, she had eat something which had disagreed with her, and made her vomit. Dur- ing the exertion of vomiting the tumour came down, and she could not put it up. This had happened at 12 o’clock, and it was now 7 in the * # y evening of the second day. I had no doubt that the case was hernia. The next inquiry went to what had been done. She had been bled, repeated doses of calomel had been given, she had been put into the warm bath, enemae had been thrown up, and the taxis attempted. She was now in great pain, and under great alarm. The pain came in paroxysms of about six minutes duration; she vomited afoul turbid and foetid fluid. In attempting to reduce the hernia it felt as if it yielded ; it seemed to disappear, but the tumour was only pushed lower or deeper; when the fingers were removed it rose to its former volume, and no part had been reduced into the belly. The neck of the sac was indeed to be felt so narrow, and so distinctly nipped by the liga- ment, that I had no expectation of the woman’s life being saved, but by an operation ; the woman had resolution immediately to accord. The sur- * This is a very important indication.CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 209 geon operated with great deliberation, and very successfully: with the blunt hook the several layers of membrane were raised up and dissected off; at length the sac assumed a transparent black- ness. A gentleman present said it was the intes- tine, which arrested the operator’s hand ; he pro- ceeded to introduce the directory under the liga- ment, and with the bistoury cut the stricture, in a direction upwards and outwards. He now at- tempted to reduce the hernia, and I thought that the intestine at this time went up ; of this, however, I can not be certain ; he resumed the bistoury, cut the ligament a little more, and separating a few adhesions, he then reduced the whole tumour. The same evening the woman had two copious evacuations ; in the morning she was quite com- fortable, having neither pain nor sickness. I visited this woman twice after the operation, and there was nothing remarkable, unless the singular ap- pearance of the wound, which seemed to heal by the first intention; for I must allow that I never saw an operation of this kind look so well, there was a mere line of adhesion. However, it after- wards broke out into suppurations. She had some tendency to disorder in her stomach and bowels, which was relieved, and she got quite well. 1 IT Remarks on the Case. In the femoral hernia, the proper sac, that is to say, the process of the peritoneum, is quite pecu- liar in respect to its thinness and transparency; and210 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. the slighter adhesions which it has to the surround- ing or outer sac ; we have seen in one of the pre- ceding cases, that the membrane left, after the reduction of the gut, was so transparent, that when the serum flowed from the belly, and filled the sac a second time, it appeared like an hydatid ; and in the last example of all, the colour of the intestine was given to its membranous covering, in that de- gree, to make the surgeon reduce both the gut and the peritoneum ; for myself, I must confess, that I was for a moment mistaken, and both the sac and intestine were reduced before I had an opportunity of giving an opinion, which, during an operation, is a'delicate matter, unless it be asked. The success in this operation was perfect, which makes it the more necessary to consider the sub- ject, else, in imitation of this, a practice may obtain which would be very dangerous. In the splendid work of Mr. Cooper, there is an example given, where, by mistake, the sac was returned with the intestine, the symptoms of strangulation continued, and the patient was lost. I have, in my Surgery, stated, that Le Dran reduced the sac with the in- testine, and that the neck of the sac continued to embrace the intestine, and the patient died. It appears then, that it is not uncommon to mistake the peritoneal sac of a femoral hernia, for the gut itself; and who in this are to blame so much as those, who in their works fail to distinguish betwixt the difference of sacs in the several kinds of hernia P It is further evident, that it is possible to reduce both the sac and the intestine in the case of femoralCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 211 hernia; but is it allowable to do so ? certainly not: for the intestine may be strangulated by the neck of the sac, in which it remains included*. But a second question may be agitated, Is it allowable to reduce the intestine without opening the sac ? that it is possible, this case proves : why it is possible in the femoral hernia, the knowledge of the nature of the sac and of the ligaments, in- forms us : but this also must be a very dangerous operation, and if attempted, no sort of violence must be used. What I have called the outer and false sac of the femoral hernia, is by some authors called a fascia. Let us first endeavour to understand what this is, and then to' give it a name. When in the opera- tion, we have cut through the skin and cellular membrane, and pushed aside the bed of the inguinal glandsf, and raised some loose and fine layers of membranes, we come to a dense coat, which, if we dissect it all around, is like a bottle with a narrow neck, which neck is embraced by the ligamentous arch of the thigh. This is an exact covering to the proper peritoneal sac of equal thickness all around, and the cellular adhesions, both to its out- * This seems at variance with what has been delivered on the delicacy of the proper sac of the femoral hernia ; but while the lower and exposed part of the sac is of extreme tenuity, the neck of the sac is some times firm as a cord. t In cutting down upon the fat of the groin, we in fact cut through the fascia superjicialis, which, however, has its fibres scattered and intermixed with the adipose membrane.212 CASES OP FEMORAL HERNIA. side and its inner surface, are so fine and so very easily torn even by using the handle of theknife, that the surgeon, who has not all his recollections about him, is very apt to mistake it for the peritoneal coat; which error leads him further wrong. To call this the fascia, is to confound every thing, and to set a task for our demonstrators, which they never can execute, in shewing all which per- tains to hernia, in the anatomy of the natural body. This membranous bottle, which surrounds the inner sac or peritoneal sac, is made of the cellular texture, external to the peritoneum, and which it meets with as it descends. This loose texture spread oyer the proper sac, being compressed, con- densed, and suffering a kind of inflammatory pro- cess, is moulded into this regular form. It is, there- fore, not a thing to be seen in the natural state of the body; it is a woof, the rude material of which is visible in the natural state; but the manufac- tory is completed by the protrusion of the hernia. For want of a little precision, both in the names we use [calling that fascia which is merely con- densed cellular membrane] and in the description, the dissecting pupil is puzzled in his endeavour to discover parts of which he reads, and the surgeon is prepared for falling into the mistake of taking the sac for the gut, or making a discovery of a lusus: viz. one sac within another; and if we turn to the cases recorded of femoral hernia, where this circumstance occurred, we shall find reason for concluding, that the surgeons have been deceivedCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 213 by the appearance of the outer, or false sac, and inner or peritoneal sac, which I have here de- scribed. There remains a subject of some practical im- portance : viz. the treatment of the mortified in- testine. I assisted a very particular friend in the following case, we were both young to the profes- sion, when it occurred. IX. CASE OF MORTIFIED INTESTINE, IN FEMO- RAL HERNIA, WHERE IT WAS THOUGHT NECESSARY TO CUT THE LIGAMENT AND relieve the gut. [Edin. Injirm.~\ Marion Brown, aet. 50. In the right groin there is an oblong tumour, extending from near the spine of the os ilii towards the labium; it is irregular, and in part compressible, inflamed, and painful to the touch. The abdomen is tense, and she complains of excessive uneasiness ; her pulse is so languid as hardly to be felt; and her counte- nance is sunk. By the account of her friends, she has been subject to rupture for twenty years. Her present sufferings commenced twelve days ago, for then the hernia came down, and from that time she has been obstinately constipated. Notwithstanding that this woman had suffered with symptoms of strangulated hernia, and sterco- raceous vomiting for twelve days, it was remarked214 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA* that “ she was far from being so exhausted as the patient, Grace Glover; her voice was hale; her face was not so pale nor so ghastly.” Yet, from the history, and the continued vomiting, and from the croaking* within the tumour, there was reason to fear the worst. Upon making the incision, which was nearly five inches long, over the tumour, the parts were found adhering, and the cellular substance and fascia were soft, and of a dirty yellow colour. The knife seemed to have penetrated, at particular points, into a foul abscess, from which there was an ooz- ing of matter. My friend, having by a little dissec- tion, exposed the parts, the sac and intestine were found entirely, gangrenous and broken into one mass, over which the firmer fibres of the superfi- cial fascia crossed like strings, and through which the faeces were forced out. The bistoury was now used, and the intestine freely opened. A small quantity of faeces only was discharged from the intestines; a little tepid water was thrown into the intestine, but it was not returned. In the evening, there was no further discharge of faeces, nor were the symptoms alleviated. The succeeding day a majority of surgeons overruled Mr. John Bell’s objections, and the surgeon intro- duced his finger into the intestine, and with the * In a recent hernia, it indicates that the distension of the gut is not great, or that its contents are moving up, but in so late a stage as this, it indicates gangrene.CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 215 bistoury divided the edge of the ligament. After this there was a considerable quantity of foeculent matter discharged, but the patient was not relieved; she continued sinking, and died in the evening. Dissection. On opening the abdomen much putrid air escaped; the whole intestines, but particularly the small intestines, were very much inflamed, and greatly distended; their colour was dark brown. The ileon was traced into a passage under the Poupart ligament: here the two portions of intes- tines adhered together, and to the peritoneum. There was a little coagulated blood at the neck of the sac, and a small nick visible from the abdomen, where the bistoury had passed in the second ope- ration. Observations on the Case. Authors, in treating of the barsten intestine, should have distinguished two cases; the intestine burst by ulceration on the sharp ligament, and the intestine burst after mortification. We have to enquire, whether or not, in such cases, it be ne- cessary to dilate the ring; secondly, in what manner it is to be done; and, finalty, how we are to prepare for the re-union of the gut. When the intestine is burst in this manner by gangrene, the opening is to be enlarged, the surgeon then introduces his finger (within the gut), and passing the point under the ligament, he feels if the stric-216 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. ture be free to allow the faeces to pass, and if he can pass in the tip of his little finger, no further operation is necessary. But if the contents of the intestine be not freely discharged, and if the gut have come through a space so small as to impede the discharge, then the ligament is to be cut. But this ought not to be done by introducing the bistoury on the finger which is within the gut; for then the sound part of the gut is cut, and the abdominal cavity may be opened, which, in this state of parts, is happily closed. The parts must be dissected around the ring or neck of the sac; the edge of the ligament is to be raised without injuring the intestine, and the firm or ligamentous parts only cut; and I have already said, very little cutting will enable the surgeon to pass the finger up the gut, and through the ring or stricture. I have in this Report given ten cases of femoral hernia, and I have seen many without keeping any account of them, and many in which I saw only the fatal result on dissection. But the question which has been so much agitated about the manner of cutting and sewing the mortified in- testine, has never occurred to me in a practical form, unless the first case of this series might be so construed. When there was mortification, there were also adhesions of the gut to the ring and mouth of the sac. That adhesion is not to be un- done for the purpose of tying or sewing the sides of the gut together! Here experiments on brutes areCASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 217 good for nothing, and worse than nonsensical; they mislead. Nor is the practice, though possible, much bet- ter, where the surgeon passes a ligature through the mesentery, to retain the mortified gut from slipping into the abdomen. The manner of accom- plishing every indication, is this : having cleared away the mortified portion of the intestine, attend carefully to the two canals which are left, the one leads to the superior, the other to the inferior por- tion of the intestinal canal. Pass the needle, car- rying a seton cord, deep into the one orifice, and bring it out by the other. This will retain the intestine in its place, if that be necessary, and in due time it will form a communication be- twixt the two portions, by which the continuity of the canal will be restored. M. Dupuytren employs a very ingenious manner , of restoring the continuity of the gut in cases of anus at the groin; he introduces the leg of a pair of forceps (formed for the purpose) into each ori- fice or portion of gut; these, being closed, meet at their extremities only, and first hold the por- tions of the gut together, and by continuing so to keep the instrument shut, by a mechanical con- trivance, mortification takes place in the parts thus compressed, and consequently a communica- tion is in the end, established betwixt the two portions of intestine. This is a very ingenious method, and I have no doubt is practicable. The manner I have offered VOL. i.—PT. II. Q218 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. is in imitation of the process of Nature, and it is always possible to do it. The instrument is a needle, and at hand : an instrument of so peculiar a form, as that of the French surgeon, will proba- bly not be found when it is wanted. Those who think, that to praise a man’s book is to say he is my friend, and to criticise it is to de- clare the author is my enemy, will not compre- hend how I can exult in the true splendour and use- fulness of Mr. Cooper’s work, as an honour to the time and the country, and yet object to parti- cular parts. Nevertheless, this is the only just criticism ; for where the particular advice is wrong, the general merit’ makes the passage more dan- gerous. In his 12th Case, he spread the sphacelated portion of intestine in his hand, and cut off the mortified portion ; after which he made three su- tures upon the intestine, to bring its edges together; the intestine was then pushed as near as possible to the mouth of the herniary sac, p. 31. In the 11th Case, two inches and a half of the intestine were cut off, and the ends of the intestine joined by three sutures, so as to leave a small opening for the discharge of faeces. In the 9th Case, he passed a needle and ligature through the mesen- tery, and fixed it to the mouth of the herniary sac, and then made a large opening into the intes- tine two hours after, he dilated the stricture, and then the faeces rushed down into the mortified in- testine, and were discharged.CASES OP FEMORAL HERNIA. 219 If the cut edges of the intestine are to be joined with ligatures, the intestine should be reduced into the abdomen ; for to keep it without the ring, must make the passage through the intestine too intri- cately twisted, to expect the faeces will take the course of the canal, while this operation does not leave a free opening to unload the bowels of their contents outwardly through the groin. To use a ligature through the mesentery to fix the intestine to the groin, is making no provision for the reunion of the end of the portions of the intestines. The subject will be further illustrated by the following example. XI. ANUS AT THE GROIN* In my Collection there Is a preparation which illustrates this subject. A middle-aged woman had a tumour in the groin, which was soft, cede- matous, and inflamed. From the train of symp- toms, it was obvious that this was a herniary tu- mour : but she would not permit the operation, nor even the approach of a surgeon. In a few days, the tumour burst, and discharged matter and feculence. She lived three weeks from the time we saw her. On dissecting the body, I saw in the labium a bag of matter, and an ulcer, with sinuses in the groin. The portion of the intestine which had been held in the sac was quite slough- ed away, and the sac was no longer distin- Q 2220 CASES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. guishable. An opening, through which the little finger could be introduced, communicated with the gut, and formed an anus at the groin. On opening the abdomen, two portions of the ileon were seen tending to one point, the pas- sage under the femoral ligament; they were in close contact, and agglutinated as they approached the passage, and adhered to the peritoneum. In the preparation, it is still observable that these two portions of the intestine have one opening towards the groin, which is owing to the wasting of the intermediate septum ; and here it appears, that if the opening had been closed outwardly by granu- lations or adhesions, a communication might still have remained betwixt the two portions of the in- testines. When we look to the preparation, it appears an easy matter to pierce or to destroy that septum by either of the means I have spoken of: but let it be remembered, that when the anus at the groin is thus established, the opening is irregular and deep. Although it maybe easy to find the passage by which the fseces came out, it does not follow that the passage to the lower part of the intestine shall be found with the same ease. Here is an ad- ditional reason for passing the seton ligature into the extremities of the gut, in preference to pass- ing it through the mesentery at the time of the first operation. The ligature serves to distinguish the two extremities of the gut, and if it do not prove effectual to the formation of a communica- 3STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 221 tion betwixt them, it will facilitate whatever ope- ration may afterwards be attempted. Before this simple means be rejected, let it be remembered that there is a natural tendency of the two por- tions of the gut to form a communication by ul- ceration, which appears to me to ensure the en- largement of the hole made by the seton, and its continuance. [See further Cases of Inguinal Hernia in future Numbers.J SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. By Mr. Shaw, Demonstrator of Anatomy in Wind- mill Street. The anatomy and diseases of the prostate gland have long been favourite points of discussion ; but of late years they have excited greater inte- rest. For this we are indebted to Sir Everard Home, who, by his book on Diseases of the Pros- tate, has not only shewn the true principles of practice, but by his description of the morbid anatomy of the gland, has incited surgeons to the further investigation of its natural and morbid structure. Trusting to Sir Everard Home’s love of science, and observing that in most of the papers which he222 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. has given to the public, he seems desirous of bringing forward the younger members of his pro- fession ; I have, without fear of appearing pre- sumptuous, given an account of some dissections which I have made of the diseased prostate ; in the course of which I have remarked facts which in- duce me to vary in some points from the usual description of the third lobe. In the demonstrations of anatomy which I have given for some years to the students in Windmill Street, I have always shewn that part of the pros- tate, which is called the third lobe ; and in not less than 200 dissections which I have made of the bladder, I have never failed to find the same part, by following the description of the dissection, given in Sir Everard Home’s book on Diseases of the Prostate. The situation and form of the three distinct portions or lobes of the healthy adult gland are there so accurately described, that were I to describe the parts from the most accurate dis- section, it would appear only as a transcript of the passage. In the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of ' 1812, there is an account given by Mr. Bell of the different opinions of the ancient and modern ana- tomists on the diseases of the prostate ; and parti- cularly of that projection of a part of the gland into the bladder, which produces a valvular ob- stiuction to the passage of the urine, In the in- vestigations of this subject, Mr. Bell discovered that the bodies commonly called corpora carnosa.STRUCTURE OP THE PROSTATE GLAND. 223 which proceed from the mouths of the ureters, were small muscles, and that they were inserted by a common tendon into the prostate gland. In the same paper he gives an ingenious theory, to account for the projection of a particular portion of the prostate into the bladder. In every case which I have examined, of that which is called disease of the third lobe, I have found his idea to be correct; that is to say, the portion of the gland to which the muscles of the ureters are attached, has been the part from which the projecting tumour arose. Though I agree with him in his theory, which I am sure every one who examines his collection in Windmill-street must also do, still there is one part of his essay which I think incorrect. I mean his description of the insertion of the muscles ; but before I notice this more particularly, I shall state the circumstances which gave origin to my more immediate investigation of this subject. About three years ago, I found a diseased blad- der, the appearance of which led me to form the idea that the disease of the prostate, which forms a tumour within the bladder, was not always pro- duced by the enlargement of the third lobe; but from the manner in which the preparation was mangled by a young student, who not only divided the pelvis, but also the prostate, with the saw, I was unable to judge accurately of the state of the third lobe; however it was evidently a portion of the gland anterior to the third lobe that projected into the bladder. I preserved the parts, and the prepa-224 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. ration is now in the section of diseased prostates in Mr. Bell’s Museum. The next opportunity I had of examining this disease, was in a subject where the projection of a part of the prostate into the bladder was in its first stage. The patient had long laboured under fistula in ano, of a very compli- cated nature ; he was worn out with repeated sup- purations, and was at length carried off by diarrhoea. On opening his bladder, I saw the muscles of the ureters particularly strong and very distinct from the other muscular fibres of the bladder ; indeed these were not unusually strong. At the point of the prostate to which these muscles were attached, I found a projection of the size of a bean, evidently the commencement of that tumour which has been called disease of the third lobe. I made a careful dissection of all the parts round the neck of the bladder; and on the back part, I made the same dissection as that described by Sir Everard Home, in his description of the third lobe. I removed the vesiculae seminales and ducts of the testicle, and though there was an evident projection of part of the gland into the inside of the bladder, still that part which is called the third lobe, was as distinct as it is found in a subject the most favora- ble for the dissection. There are two points shewn in this preparation. 1. The commencement of a valvular obstruction to the urine, produced by the projection of a part of the prostate into the bladder, which part is anterior to the third lobe, 2. That the muscles of theSTRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE CL AND. 225 ureters are not inserted into the third lobe, but into that part of the prostate which, when diseased, pro- jects into the bladder. In the works of some of the best anatomists, the muscles of the ureters are de- scribed as two cartilaginous bodies, running from the .mouths of the ureters towards the urethra, and terminating in the caput galinaginis. On a super- ficial examination, they present very much this appearance; but Mr. Bell has shewn that they are muscular, and that they are attached by a tendinous band to the substance of the prostate. He is in- correct, however, in describing them as attached to the third lobe. This is proved by the preparation I have just described, which is at the same time an example of the truth of his theory, viz. that this particular enlargement is produced by the action of the muscles of the ureters. I have very lately dissected another diseased prostate, which, though differing vety much from the two I have already mentioned, is, notwith- standing, illustrative of the subject. The gland was taken from a man sixty years of age. It is enlarged, the opening of the urethra is of great size, and the bladder does not appear to have suf- fered from dilatation ; there are three distinct pro- jections from the prostate into the bladder, but there is no projection in the usual place: the muscles of the ureters are not increased in strength. On the back part, I perceive the third lobe slightly enlarged, and projecting downwards.226 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. From these dissections, the following conclusions may be drawn :—First, that, in many cases the en- larged portion of the prostate, which projects into the bladder, is not the third lobe, but a more an- terior part of the gland. In the second place, it appears, that where there is a valvular projection into the bladder, the mus- cles of the ureters are found to be inserted at the root of the tumour. Thirdly. It appears that whenever there is this valvular projection from the prostate, the muscles of the ureters are found enlarged. It will perhaps be admitted, as in part a cor- roboration of what I have stated, that I cannot find in any book the description of a dissection of the back part of the prostate, where there was a valvu- lar projection into the bladder; nor have I seen any drawing of a perpendicular section of the dis- eased gland, which could give a correct idea of the relation between the third lobe and the portion which projects into the bladder. OBSERVATIONS ON THE AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT, AND ON THE EXCISION OP THE HEAD OF THE HUMERUS, IN CASES OF GUN-SHOT FRACTURES. The consideration of such subjects recals to my mind the cases which I have seen in military prac-AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 227 tice, and the surgeons whose operations I have witnessed with admiration. The many occasions which I have enjoyed of seeing the military prac- tice, have given me a great interest in whatever regards that department of the profession. Some of the gentlemen of the army and navy, originally well-grounded in the knowledge of their profes- sion, have come forward into notice, and given a reputation to their department of the service: and I hope that our common profession will be still more enriched by communications of the result of their experience during the late wars. Some will say, that the subjects here treated of belong to the military surgeon. They have poor notions of the profession, who would suggest this distinction. Surgery has been improved in a re- markable manner during the last fifty years, by the lecturers and hospital surgeons. Their efforts have been ably seconded in the practice of the army and navy ; and especially in operations, some very bold and remarkable things have been there accomplished. But every hospital surgeon and teacher claims the privilege of examining these operations, and the principles on which the mili- tary surgery has been conducted. I have sacri- ficed much to see our navy and army surgeons on duty, and in doing so, I have shewn my respect for them ; but I will not lose the vantage ground which a laborious life has given me, nor yield it to them as a privileged body, to lay down the great228 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. principles of the profession. The patients in mi- litary life are not drawn to their surgeons by their reputation—they have no power of selection—mis- fortune brings them under very absolute practi- tioners ; and this has often struck me as a reason why the army and navy surgeons should confine themselves to rules acknowledged by the general sense of the profession. After the battle of Corunna, I went to Ports- mouth, and lived a short time in Haslar hospital, where I studied, I hope, with all diligence under that excellent surgeon, Mr. Vance. They would joke with me on my picking up the bones shattered by gun-shot, saying these would make fine stories for lecture ! These bones were of much use to me; and although, at first, I sought for them simply as the examples of such fractures as the united navy and army surgeons condemned to amputa- tion ; gradually, as I saw more into the subject! I began to question the propriety of their decisions.* I prosecuted the subject in the York hospital, for Mr. Knight was liberal in the discharge of his office. My opinions published, and expressed re- peatedly in lecture, were, if possible, more than ever confirmed by what I witnessed of the wounded at Waterloo. * See the Section of Gun-shot Wounds, in the end of my Operative Surgery also published separately.AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 229 I shall confine myself at present to those wounds of the shoulder, which require extraction of the head of the bone, or amputation at the socket. If the surgeon and his assistant be bold and dex- terous, and use dispatch, the operation oe am- putation at the shoulder joint, may be safely performed according to the present method. I saw it done in Haslar hospital, in a manner which left no room for improvement, while com- mitted to such hands. But considering it as an operation often required, and of course, pretty ge- nerally performed, it does seem to me, that a plainer and safer mode ought to be laid down. These are subjects which it is dangerous to consi- der theoretically. Experience leads us to a fuller comprehension of the difficulties ; and sometimes, contrary to the general course, the hand leads the head : for, in performance, that is often difficult or awkward, which is plain in words, or easy to be done, though obscure in description. In my volume of Surgery, I have explained the necessity of supporting the patient, and the manner of doing it. I there stated, that if the patient be not supported at the moment of dividing the artery, when the pressure should be greatest and the re- sistance most steady, the patient sinks, and the artery is free ! I have additional reasons to caution the surgeon against this occurrence. The compressing of the artery above the clavicle, does not secure the patient against loss ot blood.230 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. It may be done, but is not to be depended upon ; for if it be, there will be a great loss of blood. The manner of making the incision has been a great deal too much dwelt upon; for without con- sidering the place and extent of the wound, it is absurd to be critical about the form of the incisions. Generally speaking, the deltoid muscle ought to be made to form the flap ; so as to fall down upon the semicircular incision on the lower or inner part. But the flesh of the top of the shoulder is sometimes torn or contused in such a degree as to make this form of incision impossible. Then two lateral semi- circular flaps are to be formed. But these must still be accommodated to the form of the original wound, and with a regard to the security of the artery. In this operation, the compressing and securing of the artery, is the point by much the most im- portant ; and it is here that I think our military surgeons err: they disregard the danger too much. After experience acquired, they proceed boldly and with effect, without considering the circum- stances of the younger surgeons, or the difficulty as it may present itself to a surgeon on his first opera- tion. But according to the present method, it is not proper to cut the artery across, without se- curity that the blood be arrested ; and on the knife dividing the remaining portion of the limb, and the artery with it, there should not, instead of quietness and security, be a general scatter of the assistants and spectators, to avoid the blood. I 6AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 231 think every practical surgeon must have noticed this fact; that the suddenness with which the blood is drawn from the heart, is of more consequence than the quantity. I have seen in common ampu- tation, a few jets of blood direct from the artery, give a shock to the patient from which he did not recover. The blood which flows from the artery in the shoulder-joint operation, comes direct from the heart; and I have seen the moment of the di- vision, the moment of the general sinking of the patient. In unskilful hands it is fearful to think of the consequence of this state of things. Why, therefore, should not a safer method be taken, if it be as expeditious. I am entitled to speak strongly if I can prove that there is a safer method. It is this : When the incisions have been made above, or on the outer side of the shoul- der ; pierce the capsule, and separate the head of the bone, so that the thumb sinks into the joint; then grasping the integuments of the axilla with the fingers, the artery itself is in your grasp, and not a drop of blood escapes. When the last cut is made, severing the limb from the body, the artery is cut across ; and it is presented with open mouth to the tenaculum or the fingers of the assistant without a drop of blood distilling from it. It is tied with more ease than in a common amputa- tion, and with no occasion for hurry or trepi- dation. In the hospital, called Gendarmerie, at Brussels, T had occasion to perform this operation. A mus-232 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT* ket ball had struck the head of the humerus, and fractured it, and broken up the acromion scapulae. Whether this was a proper case for the operation of amputation, we shall presently inquire : but I was employed in disengaging the broken bones when two staff surgeons came in, who induced me to convert the ugly wound which they saw, into an amputation at the joint. The state of the pa- tient admitted of no delay ; and, taking the am- putation knife, with three motions of the knife I separated the arm. I stood behind the patient. Setting on the knife in the wound of the top of the shoulder, I drew it so as to make a flap of the outside of the deltoid. Then laying the wounds into one, (in the direction of the dotted line, Plate VI,) I drew the knife a second time in the cut, so as to open the capsule. I then passed the thumb of my left hand into the joint, betwixt the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus, bending the fingers of the same hand into the axilla, I held the string of the artery and nerves firmly betwixt my fingers and thumb, and completed the opera- tion by a semicircular sweep of the knife on the inside and lower part of the arm. The artery pre- sented its empty mouth. Giving up the knife, I took hold of the artery with my finger and thumb of the right hand, and drew it out clear of the nerves ; when it was tied by my assistant. In this manner of operating, the only thing that can be called a difficulty, is common to both me- thods of operating—the division of the capsule.AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 233 When the upper segment of that membrane is di- vided, and the arm permitted to hang, there is no- thing to prevent the thumb from being thrust be- twixt the scapula and humerus. I have done this so often at lecture, without changing the knife, that I found no difficulty in doing it on the above occa- sion. But as these are bloodless parts, time may be taken, and the probe-pointed-bistoury used to divide the capsule on the outside and inside of the head of the humerus. In the common manner of amputating, the artery being cut across, shrinks, but the gush of blood does not cease; it still is- sues from the retracted arterv, and obscures its place. A great advantage of this manner which I recommend is, that the artery is so held that it cannot retract, but points towards you with open mouth. Now I ask with confidence, Is not this a safer, and therefore a better method, than trusting entirely to the compression of the subclavian artery ? For in these circumstances the cry is, now ! now ! gentlemen, take care of yourselves ! is all ready ? I am about to cut the artery! and whiss it goes, giving evidence on every spectator, that they have been present at a great and bloody operation. In a late publication (for it is the fashion not to mention names, unless we are going to cover a friend with extravagant praise), the author, who is considered for many excellent qualities, the exam- ple of the army surgeon, says, indeed I prefer feeling VOL. I, PT. II. R234- AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. the pulsation of the artery, that I may afterwards be certain that it is properly commanded. He continues, the axillary artery does not throw out so much blood at each pulsation as has been con- ceived. The blood thus thrown out immediately declares the situation of the artery, and if the judgment be not obscured by the hurry of the moment, very little pressure with the closed hand on the surface of the wound commands the he- morrhage. I will admit this is very good prac- tice when a man is sitting on a pack-saddle, sublime amidst the P}Tenees, where a few jets of blood amidst the surrounding carnage, is a matter of no moment; but I believe my friend will acknowledge, that in a London hospital it would make a very considerable sensation ! In studying these same fractured bones I have spoken of above,*' and seeing the consequences of the attempt to preserve the arm in such cases of gun-shot fracture, I concluded that the prolonged mischief was principally owing to the shattered bones being left. There were two cases of the head of the hu- merus fractured by musket-shot; one of which I saw condemned to amputation at the shoulder- joint, by a naval surgeon, and the other by an army surgeon. And after this I had many occa- sions of knowing that such was the practice dur- • Which are arranged in a cabinet in the Museum.AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 255 ing all the peninsular war. In these circumstances I could only make the strongest representations against such practice; and although I thought that my authority might have little weight, I expected that my reasons should have some ; and I think I may say that in this I have not been disappointed. But my object is not merely to show that I have pointed out the necessity of these operations, which have been performed since the promulgation of my observations in my lec- tures and in my book ; but to do a thing of some- what more consequence, to show that they have been done with great negligence of the ana- tomy. I saw Ellard, whose case is before the pub- lic, and on whom an operation was done in the York hospital. A musket-ball had passed through the head of the os humeri, and shattered it, forming a case exactly similar to that of which I have given a plate in my Surgery. When I saw this man I found that the surgeons in operating, had cut across the deltoid muscle, and separated it from its insertion into the hu- merus ; the consequence of this was, such as might have been anticipated, The head of the bone being extracted, and the connexions of the humerus lost with the scapula, and the deltoid cut across, the pectoralis major and the latis- simus dorsi, had drawn the end of the bone r 2236 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. towards the side, the consequence of which was that the bone lay irritating the skin on the in- side, and an abscess had formed there. The operation has been commenced in the same way in a second case, that is, by raising the deltoid muscle in a flap. Besides being wrong in respect to the operations of the muscles on the remain- ing end of the humerus, this is an unnecessary severity. The cutting across the deltoid muscle and then raising it up as a flap, presents the frac- tured bone entirely to view ; but it makes a very formidable operation. The arm is more than half cut through, and an extensive suppurating surface is produced. To a patient reduced by long suf- fering this is a serious matter ; and in a recent case it is of great advantage to have the operation sim- ple and less frightful in appearance, that it may be the more readily submitted to. When I first proposed this operation, it was in these words : “ now supposing that instead of performing that very serious operation, the am- putation at the shoulder joint, a decided and long incision be made through the deltoid muscle, the loose bones picked away, and the broken extremities pf the humerus taken off with a small saw, what would the situation of the patient be? The ope- ration is easy, not severe to the patient, and the cause of high inflammation and protracted suf- fering is removed.” That the operation of extracting the head ofamputation at the shoulder joint. 237 the humerus, as performed in the York hospital*, was set about with very confused notions, is evi- dent from the expression they have used in the report of the case. To remove the bone, “ it became necessary to separate the capsular ligament from its connexions with the neck of the bone and contiguous muscles, viz. teres major, pecloralis major, latissimus dorsi, c§r subclavius.1' However familiar with the term, they ought to have known that the muscles to which this distinction of ma- jor is given, have no interference with the capsule of the joint, any more than the subclavius. The operation required three quarters of an hour, two arteries were tied, and two pounds of blood were lost. Here is another indication of the se- verity of the operation, and of the improper man- ner in which it was planned. On the subject of this operation generally, I have only to add, that if at any time it shall be necessary to make an in- cision across the arm, the middle portion of the deltoid should be preserved entire, to be a coun- terpoise to the pectoralis major, or latissimus dorsi j\ * I know that this operation was well done; I have seen the operator do things of greater difficulty. I only criticise the plan of this operation and the case, as it appears before the public; had it been the work of one head and two hands, I should not have noticed it. f It is no apology to say that it may be necessary to cut of!238 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. Since the few observations of mine on this sub- ject have stood, as it were, in the way of the reports of the military surgeons, the Baron Larrey is quoted with high consideration. As to the cases of Mr. White and the surgeon of Pezenas, they have no more to do with the question before us, than if it were debated whether those gentlemen used a bistoury in the operation of fistula; and if they be brought forward now with the laudable inten- tion of giving to every one his due, this sort of justice is done with the unfortunate effect of drawing off’ the young military surgeon from the just knowledge of the case, and obscuring his understanding of the question, in practice. In regard to M. Larrey, his cases do not go to the point; and his operations were ill performed. In the cases in which he extracted the head of the humerus, the humerus was broken near the head : a case, I imagine, which would do well, conducted on the principles of gun-shot fractures ; and instead of performing the operation as it sug- gested itself to me, in considering the practice of the British army ; he simply picks away the bones which are loose, without completing the operation; the arm on discovering the state of the bone; and that therefore a flap must be formed ; for the amputation may be done equally well beginning with an incision from the acromion, in the length of the fibres of the deltoid.AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 239 and accordingly we find that in all his cases the end of the humerus exfoliated ; and what does this convey to the surgeon’s mind ? abscess, foetid discharge, and long suffering. But what truly was the estimate of these opera- tions of White, the surgeon of Pezencis, and M. Larrey, in the British army ? our surgeons preferred the formidable operation of amputation at the shoulder joint. “ The disapprobation it met with from the medical department of the British army arose, not from any experience of its ill success, but possibly from too great an attach- ment to the operation of amputation.” This is very well from one of themselves, with all the records of the campaign in Spain before him ; and the fact is further illustrated by the report of another Surgeon, high in rank, in the Peninsular war; who, after stating that many soldiers, who had unfortunately experienced compound fracture of the shoulder joint, had suffered amputation of the arm, at its articulation, with the scapula, concludes by stating, (and this on the 5th March, 1816) that the case which he has laid before us will shew that such a dreadful operation is not always ne- cessary. After reading the portion of my Surgery, which treats of this subject of gun-shot fracture, and those more recent reports of military practice, I think I shall not be denied the agreeable reflection of hav- ing roused the army surgeons to a juster notion of240 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. these cases, and of being eventually the cause of saving many a brave fellow’s limb. The Subject to be continued in reference to the Cases of Waterloo. END OF PART II. ( l *1 •