Reserving rigilts of liorsons regiu* tDrod licforo act of 1 SOS. Excepting lticdioino sujijilicd by a lcgolly qualified medical man. Scbedulo (F) amended. Construction and short titlo. Power to secretary of st.\to to vary period for transmission of certificates of interment to district inspectors. MEDIC ALT'ACTS—Pharmacy Act, 1C GO. The Pharmacy Act, 1860. 32 & 33 Viet. e. 1 17- An Act to anionJ Urn Pharmacy AH, 1868. V- ’ [11 tli August, I860 ‘‘Whereas it is oxpediont to amend Iho provisions of the Pharmacy Act, 1808, in'rogard to duly qualified medical practitioners and voterinary surgeons, and., in othor respects : " Be it enacted as follows : 1. Nothing contained in tlio first fifteen sections of tho recited net shall affect any person who has heon registered as a legally qualified medical practitioner beforo tlio passing of this act; and the said clauses shall not apply to any person who may hereafter ho registered as a legally qualified practitioner, and who, in order to obtain his diploma for such registration, shall have passed an examination in pharmacy; nor shall tho said clauses prevent any person who is a moinbor of tlio royal collego of voterinary surgeons of Great Britain, or holds a certifi- cate in veterinary surgery from the highland and agricultural society of Scotland, from dispensing medicines for animals under his care. ’■ 2. [Repealed by S. L! R, 1883.] 3. Nothing contained in section seventeen of the said recited act slmll apply to any medicine supplied by a legally qualified medical pniofb tioncr to his patient or dispensed by any person registered under the said act, provided such medicine be distinctly labelled with tho name and address of tho seller, and the ingredients thereof be entered, with tho name of the person to whom it is sold or delivered, in a book to bo kept by the seller for that purpose. 4. [Repealed by S. L. R. 1883.] 6. Schedule (F) of the said recited act is hereby altered by substi- tuting for the second column headed “Name of Purchaser" a column beaded “ Name and Address of Purchaser." SCHEDULE (A) (/•). The Anatomy Act, 1871- 34 & £5 Viet. c. 16. An Act to amend the Act of the Second ami Third Years of William the Fourth, Chapter Seventy-live, for regulating Schools of Anatomy., [25th May, 1871 “ Whoroas it is expediont to amend tho act of the session of the second and third years of king William tho fourth, chapter seventy-five,‘for regulating schools of anatomy : Be it enacted as follows : 1 • This act shall bo construed as one with tho recited act, ami i rocitod act and this act may bo cited as “Tho Anatomy Acts, 18‘E • 187 1,” and each of them may ho cited as tho Anatomy Act of the}1 in which it was passed. 2. It shall ho lawful for one of her majesty's principal Mocrehu.; stato in that part of tho united kingdom called Great Britain, ami fm cniof socrotary for Ireland in that part of tho united kingdom Ireland, from timo to timo, by ordor, to vary tho period limited by set' thirteen of tho recited act as tho timo within which certificated 1 intorment aro to be transmitted to tho inspectors of districts. (/) Schedule (repealed by S. L. R. 1SS3.