examination. 005 MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832 .—Si try eons, Burial. death according to the best of his knowledge and belief, but who shall not be concerned in examining the body afcer removal; and that in case of such removal, such certificate shall be delivered, together with the body, to the party receiving the same for anatomical examination. 10. It shall be lawful for any member or fellow of any college of physicians or surgeons, or any graduate or licentiate iu medicine, or any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, or any professor, teacher, or student of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, having a licence from his majesty's principal secretary of state or chief secretary as aforesaid, to receive or possess for anatomical examina- tion, or to ^examine anatomically, the body of any person deceased, if permitted or directed so to do by a party who had at the time of giving such permission or direction lawful possession of the body (/), and who had power, in pursuance of the provisions of this act. to permit or cause the body to be so examined, and provided such certificate as aforesaid were delivered by such party together with the body. 11. Every party so receiving a body for anatomical examination after removal shall demand and receive, together with the body, a certifi- cate as aforesaid, and shall, within twenty-four hours next after such removal, transmit to the inspector of the district such certificate, and also a return stating at what day and hour and from whom the body was received, the date and place of death, the sex. and (as far as is known at the time) the Christian and surname, age, and last place of abode of such person, or, if no such inspector have been appointed, to some physician, surgeon, or apothecary residing at or near the place to which the body is removed, and shall enter or cause to be entered the aforesaid particulars relating thereto, and a copy of the certificate lie received therewith, in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, and shall produce such book whenever required so to do by any inspector so appointed as aforesaid.. 12. It shall not be lawful for any party to carry on or teach anatomy at any place, or at any place to receive or possess for anatomical examina- tion, or examine anatomically, any deceased person’s body after removal of the same, unless such party, or the owner or occupier of such place, - or some party by this act authorised to examine bodies anatomically, shall at least one week before the first receipt or possession of a body for such purpose at such place, have given notice to the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, of the place where it is intended to practise anatomy. ’ ' / Provided always that every such body so removed as aforesaid for the purpose of examination shall, before such removal, be placed in a decent coffin or shell, and be removed therein ; and that the party remov- ing the same, or causing the same to be removed as aforesaid, shall make piovision that such body, after undergoing anatomical examination, be decently interred in consecrated ground, or in some public burial ground iu use for persons of that religious persuasion to which the person whose bod\ was so removed belonged; and that a certificate of the interment of sucn body shall be transmitted to the inspector of the district within six weeks (/;) after the day on which such bodv was received as aforesaid. (*) If the body is in the posses-: of the coroner his permission wo: have to be obtained. As to the pov of a coroner to order a po*t-mirt examination of the bolv. see s. 21 ■ • the Coroners Act, ISsT (oO cc 51 Viet, c. 71), tit. “ Coroner.” (k) This porio 1 may bo varied by secretary of st ite’s or lor. See :J l & So Viet. c. l.fi, post. 2,U Will. 4, c. 75. Ss. 9-13. Professors, surgeons, ami others may receive holies for anatomical examination. Such persons to receive with the body a certificate as aforesaid, which shall be transmitted to the inspector. / Notice to be given to secre- tary of state of places where anatomy is about to be practised. How bodies are to he removed for