V _ 902 MEDICAL ACTS—Apothecaries Act, 1815. Geo. 3. \ c. 194. Ss. 27- 30. Act not to atluct chemists and druggists. Saving rights. ~"r Secretary of state may grant licences to practise anatomy. Irregularity, may recover full satisfaction for the special damage in an action upon the case. 28- Nothing in this act contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to prejudice, or in any way to affect the trade or business of a chemist and druggist, in the buying, preparing, compounding, dispersing, and vending drugs, medicines, and medicinable compounds, wholesale and retail; but all persons using or exercising the said trade or business, or who shall or may hereafter use or exercise the same, shall and may use, exercise, and carry on the same trade or business in such manner, and as fully and amply to all intents and purposes, as the same trade or business was used, exercised, or earned on by chemists and druggists before the passing of this act. 29. Nothing in this act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to lessen, prejudice, or defeat, or in anywise to interfere with any of the rights, authorities, privileges, and immunities heretofore vested in and exercised and enjoyed by either of the two universities of Oxford or Cambridge, .the royal college of physicians, the royal college of surgeons, or the said society of apothecaries respectively, other than and except such as shall or may have been altered, varied, or amended in and by this act; [or of any person or persons practising as an apothecary previously to the 1st day of August, 1815;] but the said universities, royal colleges, and the said society, and all such persons or person shall have, use, exercise, and enjoy all such rights, authorities, privileges, and immunities, save and except as aforesaid, in as full, ample, and beneficial a manner, to all intents and purposes, as they might have done before the passing of this act, and in case the same had never been passed (e). 30- [Repealed and replaced by Public. Authorities Protection Act, 1893, tit. “ Public Authorities.”] The Anatomy Act, 1832. 2 & 3 Will. 4, c. 75. An Act for regulating Schools of Anatomy. ' [1st August, 1832 “ Whereas a knowledge of the causes and nature of sundry diseases which affect the body, and of the best methods of treating and curing such diseases, and of healing and repairing divers wounds and injuries to which the human frame is liable, cannot be acquired without the aid of anatomical examination: and whereas the legal supply of human bodies for such anatomical examination is insufficient fully to provide the means of such knowledge : and whereas, in order further to supply human bodies for such purposes, divers great and grievous crimes have been committed, and lately murder (/), for the single object of selling for such purposes the bodies of the persons so murdered: and whereas therefore it is highly expedient to give protection, under certain regula- tions, to tho study and practice of anatomy, and to prevent, as far . - may be, such great and grievous crimes and murder as aforesaid: 1>! it THEREFORE enacted, that it shall be lawful for his majesty’s princif ' secretary ot state for tlie time being for the home department in thy- part of the united kingdom called Great Britain, and for the eh * secretary for Ireland in that part of the united kingdom called Irelan i. (e) Italicised words of s. 20 repealed given to this kind of murder, h • by 8. L. lh 1890. Burke, who was executed for i. (/) “Burking” was tho naruo ' January, 1829. £•