907 MEDICAL ACTS—Pharmacy Act, 1852. on their own account at the elate of the said charter, or who should have been examined in such manner as the council of the said society should deem proper, or who should have been certified to be duly qualified for admission, or who should be persons elected as superintendents by the council of the said society: and whereas it is expedient to prevent i<morant and incompetent persons from assuming the title of or pretend- incr to be pharmaceutical chemists or pharmaceutists in Great Britain, or members of the said pharmaceutical society, and to that end it is desirable that all persons before assuming such title should be duly examined as to their skill and knowledge by competent persons, and that a register should be kept by some legally authorized officer of all such persons : and whereas for the purposes aforesaid, and for extend- ing the benefits which have already resulted from the said charter of incorporation, it is desirable that additional powers should be granted for regulating the qualifications of persons who may carry on the business of pharmaceutical chemists : ” Be it enacted, 1. The said charter of incorporation granted to the said society on the 18th day of February, 1S43, save and except such part or parts thereof as are hereby altered, varied, or repealed, shall be and the same is hereby con- firmed and declared to be in full force and virtue, and shall be as good and effectual to all iuteuts and purposes as if this act had not been passed. 2- The council of the said pharmaceutical society shall be and the same are hereby authorized and empowered to alter and amend the bye-laws of the said society made and established under or in pursuance of the said charter of incorporation, and to make and establish such new or additional bye-laws as they shall deem proper and necessary for the purposes contemplated by the said charter or by this act : provided always, that all such original bye-laws, and all altered, amended, or additional bye-laws, shall be confirmed and approved by a special general meeting of the members of the said pharmaceutical society, and by one of her majesty’s principal secretaries of state ('/): provided also, that the existing bye-laws of the said society shall continue in force until the next annual meeting of the said society to be held in the month of May, 1853 (;«).] - 3. Manner of voting.—[Repealed S. L. R. 1S75.J 4. The council of the said pharmaceutical society shall, [within three calendar months after the passing of this act (?/t),j appoint a fit and proper person as a registrar under this act, and the council of the said society shall have the power to remove the said registrar, or any future registrar to be appointed under this act, from the said office, and from time to time to appoint a new registrar in the room of anv registrar who mav die, or retire, or be removed from office as aforesaid, and also to appoint and remove from time to time a deputy registrar, and such clerks and other subordinate officers as may be requisite for carrying out the purposes of this act, and also to pay suitable salaries to the said . registrar, deputy registrar, clerks, and officers. 6. The registrar to be appointed under or by virtue of this act shall from time to time make out and maintain a complete register of all persons being members of the said society, and also i all persons being associates and apprentices or students respective’ . according, to the terms of the charter of incorporation, and shall keep a proper°index of (f) The power of making bye-laws p. 97'2, j o-st. conferred by this section has been fm) Words in italics repealed by extended by 8 Edw. 7, c. 55, s. 4, S. L. E. 1875- 15 & 16 Viet, c. 56. Ss. 1-5. Charter, dated ISth Feb., IS43, con- tinued, save as altered. Tower to council to alter bye-laws, provided they are approved by a general meeting of society and the secretary of state. Council to appoint registrar, &<;. Registrar to make registers of members of society, Ac. and to keep an index and I ooks as may be required.