901 MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832.—Executors. directing anatomical examinations _ after their death. 2 & 3 Will. 4, taker or other party intrusted with the body* for the purpose only of c. 75. interment, to permit the body of such deceased person to undergo g3 7_9 anatomical examination, unless, to the knowledge of such executor or other party, such person shall have expressed his desire, either in writing at any time during his life, or verbally in the presence of two or more witnesses during the illness whereof he died, that his body after death mi^ht not undergo such examination, or unless the surviving husband or wife, or any known relative of the deceased person, shall require the body* to be interred without such examination (h). Provision in 8- If any person either in writing at any time during his life, or case of persons verbally in* the presence of two or more witnesses during the illness whereof he died, shall direct that his body after death be examined anatomically, or shall nominate any party by this act authorized to examine bodies anatomically’ to make such examination, and if, before the burial of the body of sucli person, such direction or nomination shall be made known to the party having lawful possession of the d.ead body, then such last-mentioned party shall direct such examination to be made, and in case of any such nomination as aforesaid, shall request and permit any party so authorized and nominated as aforesaid to make such examination, unless the deceased person’s surviving husband or wife, or nearest known relative, or any one or more of such person’s nearest known relatives, being of kin in the same degree, shall require the body to be interred without such examination. 9. Provided always, that in no case shall the body’ of any person be removed for anatomical examination from any place where such person may have died, until after forty-eight hours from the time of such person’s decease, nor until after twentv-four hours’ notice, to be reckoned from the time of such decease, to the inspector of the district, of the intended removal of the body’, or, if no such inspector have been appointed, to some physician, surgeon, or apothecary residing at or near the place of death, nor unless a certificate stating in what manner such person came by his death shall previously to the removal of the body have been signed by the physician, surgeon, or apothecary who attended such person during the illness whereof he died, or if no such medical man attended such person during such illness, then by’ some physician, surgeon, or apothecary’ who shall be called in after the death of such person to view his body’, and who shall state the manner or cause of The body not to be removed from the place ■where such person may have died without a certificate. On the death of the paupers, he had caused their bodies to be shown to their relatives in coffins, and every appear- ance of regular funerals to be gone through; whereas, just before the funeral, other coffins had been sub- stituted, and the bodies were afterwards taken to an hospital for dissection. The relatives of the deceased persons had not, iji accordance with the proviso, required that the bodies should he in- terred without anatomical examina- tion; but the jury found that the prisoner had caused the appearance of funerals to bo gone through with a view to prevent the relatives making such requirement, and that they’ would have so required but for the supposed fuuorals. It wash. Id that as, in fact, the relatives had not made the require- ment which under the statute they had a right to make, the master of Jhe workhouse was protected by the statute as a person having the lawful custody of the bodies, and was not therefore guilty’ of the offence charged. {Iteg. v. Feist (1S5S), 1 Dears. & B. 59; 27 L. J. M. C. 101; Mews Digest, iv. 675). (//) There is no property* in a dead body, but the executors have a right to the possession of it, and their duty is to bury it although there is a direc- tion in the will that some other person should cause the body’ to he burut (Williams v. Williams (IS'VJ), 20 C. D. 059; 51 L. J. Ch. 3S5; Mews Digest, iv. 075)'. \