90 ti MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832. 2 k 3 Will. 4 c. 75. Ss. 14-19. Persons described in this act not to be liable to punishment for having in their posses- sion human bodies. Act not to prohibit post- mortem examination. Offences against this act. Interpretation of certain words in this act. / T- 14. No member or fellow of any college of physicians or surgeons, \ nor any graduate or licentiate in medicine, nor any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, nor any professor, teacher, or student of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, having a licence from his majesty’s principal secretary of state or chief secretary as aforesaid, shall be liable to any prosecution, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for receiving or 'Having in his possession for anatomical examination, or for examining anatomically, any dead human body, according to the provisions of this act. 15- Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to extend to or to prohibit any post-mortem examination of any human body required or directed to be made by any competent legal authority. 16. So much of 9 Geo. 4, c. 31, as directs that the bodies of murderers may be dissected, repealed. Such bodies to be hung in chains or buried, as the court shall direct.—[Repealed 24 & 25 Yict. c. 95.] 17- [Repealed and replaced with extensions by Public Authorities Protection Act, 1893, tit. “ Public Authorities.”] 18- Any person offending against the provisions of this act in England or Ireland shall be deemed and taken to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, being duly convicted thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or by a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, at the discretion of the court before which he shall be tried ; and any person offending against the provisions of this act in Scotland shall, upon being duly convicted of such offence, be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or by a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, at the discretion of the court before which he shall be tried. 19. And in order to remove doubts as to the meaning of certain words in this act, be it enacted, that the words “person and party” shall be respectively deemed to include any number of persons, or any society, whether by charter or otherwise; and the meaning of the aforesaid words shall not be restricted, although the same may be subsequently referred to in the singular number and masculine gender only. The Arsenic Act, 1851. 14 & 15 Viet. c. 13. [See p. 980, post.'] The Pharmacy Act, 1852. 15 & 16 Viet. c. 56. An Act for regulating the Qualifications of Pharmaceutical Chemists. [30th June, 1852 “ \\ hereas it is expedient for the safety of the public that persons exercising the business or calling of pharmaceutical chemists in Great Britain should possess a competent practical knowledge of pharmaceu- tical and general chemistry and other branches of useful knowledge : and whereas certain persons desirous of advancing chemistry and pharmacy and of promoting an uniform system of educating those who should practise the same, formed themselves into a society called ‘ The Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain,’ which said society was on the l^th day of February, 1843, incorporated by royal charter, whereby it was provided that the said society should consist of members who should be chemists and druggists who were or had been established