' s. MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy 9 03 Act, 1332.—Liet'n< immediately on the passing of this act, or so soon thereafter as may be required, to grant a licence to practise anatomy to any fellow or member of any college of physicians or surgeons, or to any 'graduate or licentiate in medicine, or to any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, or to any professor or teacher of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, or to any student attending any school of anatomy, on application from such party for-such purpose, countersigned by two of his majesty s justices of the peace acting for the county, city," borough, or place wherein such party resides, certify- ing that, to then* knowledge or belief, such party so applying is about to carry on the practice of anatomy. 2- It sliall Be lawful for his majesty’s said principal secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, immediately on the passing of this act, or as soon thereafter as may be necessary, to appoint respee- tiyely not fewer than three persons to be inspectors of places where anatomy is carried on, and at any time after such first appointment to appoint, if they shall see fit, one or more other person or persons to be an inspector or inspectors as aforesaid ; and every such inspector shall continue in office for one year, or until he be removed by the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, or until some other person shall be appointed in his place; and as often as any inspector appointed as aforesaid shall* die, or shall be removed from his said office, or shall refuse or become unable to act, it shall be lawful for the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, to appoint another person to be inspector in his room. 3. It shall be lawful for the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, to direct what district of town or country, or of both, and what places where anatomy is carried on, situate within such district, every such inspector shall be appointed to superintend, and in what manner every such inspector shall transact the duties of his office. 4. Every inspector to be appointed by virtue of this act shall make a quarterly return to the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, of every deceased person’s body that during" the preceding quarter has been removed for anatomical examination to every separate place in his district where anatomy is carried on, dis- tinguishing the sex, and, as far as is known at the time, the name and age of each person whose body was so removed as aforesaid. 5. It shall be lawful for every such inspector to visit and inspect, at any time, any place within his district, notice of which place has been . given, as is hereinafter directed, that it is intended there to practise anatomy. 6. It shall be lawful for his majesty to grant to every such inspector such an annual salary, not exceeding one hundred pounds, for his louble, and to allow such a sum of money for the expenses of his 0 ace, as may appear reasonable; such salaries and allowances to be charged on the consolidated fund of the united kingdom, and to be pav- V 1 quarterly ; and an annual return of all such salaries and allowances shall be made to parliament. 7- It shall be lawful for any executor or other partv having lawful possession of the body of any deceased person {<j), and not being an under- • & A master of a workhouse was indicted fur disposing of the dead bodies of some paupers fur the purpo-e of dissection and for gain to himself. 2 k 3 Will. 4. c. 75. Ss. 1-7. Secretary of state to appoint inspectors of schools of anatomy ; and to direct what district every inspector shall superin- tend. Inspectors to make retarns of subjects removed for anatomical examination ; and to inspect places where anatomy is practised. Salaries to inspectors. Executors or other persons !> ivin^ lawful custody or bodies m «y permit them to un lergo anatomical exj miuation.