THE REFORM CLUB. G23 to cook potatoes, and the other for steaming puddings, &c. ; the square ones might be taken as models, they are one foot five inches square, and one foot high, divided into four parts, forming four distinct compartments in one. The round boiler is fifteen inches in diameter. The front of the shelf has a groove under the tap of the steamers to let out the water iiroduced by the steam, which runs into the sink ; a draining-board is next to the steamers, where vegetables are deposited after they are washed. Next is the vegetable sink, three feet nine inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot eight inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water. Against the glass partition, on each side of the door which leads to the scullery, are two dressers, six feet long and two feet four inches wide, with four open divisions under each, for sundry articles of kitchen utensils. On the light are two sinks, three feet six inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot six inches deep, for washing dishes, having two taps each, for hot and cold water. Above is a plate-rack, eleven feet long and one foot deep, to dry plates and dishes. On the right side of the sinks is a delivery window with a closet beneath, four feet lpng and two feet wide, serving as a dresser, from which clean plates and dishes are sent to the coffee-room. (m.) The Scouring Scullery and Steam Boiler. This room, on a level with the vegetable kitchen, is thirteen feet long and seventeen feet wide ; on the left is a large dresser, or draining-board, with grooves, six feet long and three feet and a half wide, to dry all the coppers after being scoured; under it are large drawers. Above are two shelves the whole length of the room for large pans and coppers. Next to the dresser are two large sinks, three feet and a half long, two and a half wide, and one foot and a half deep, with two taps for hot and cold Against the window, and close to the sink, is a thick scouring table, three teet by two, with a box underneath for sand, &c. On the right is the steam boiler, eight feet three inches long, six feet wide and five feet high, surrounded with bricks, and by which large closets bains manes, plates for delivery-windows and tables, are heated, large coppers sup- OIK n"')1 3 T 0T cookin&; also dressing-rooms, baths, and closets in vari- ous parts or tne house. The appearance of these three rooms, each for a different purpose forms H8hted’ “ry C“0'- “lremCly “Anient, and wide’L?iD?EK,S PaNTRY‘ A larSe room’ twenty-four feet long and seventeen water ??dlDS(PfiVate '5Vlth <a fire-Place> cupboards, sink, and plenty of partm^nt isprepted!8 “ Whei’e everythinS belonSkS to liis de- (o.) Butler’s Office. Well fitted flRt} to the pantry and plate closet. up, and very convenient from its proxi- (p.) Iron closet for plate, fire-proof, i coflee\-oomr^C paSSa£e fading out, and also to the back staircase, to the