651 KITCHEN AT HOME. master, who came „o the door of the lodge to pay his duties to his old and faithful servant, whilst an exhalation of the most delicious fragrance perfumed the small apartment from the boiling consomme which attracted his scientific attention ; after a short inquiry he discovered in au old brown pan the gloriously smoking hot consomme, and seizing with avidity a spoon by the side, tasted (much to the astonishment of La Mere Binard) several spoonfuls, pronouncing the first delicious, the second excellent, the third delightful, in fact, magnificent. “ Can you spare any of it ?” he said, addressing the worthy dame. “Yes,” said she, “but lam sure Monseigneur does not mean it.” “ But indeed I do,” replied he ; “ and if I had been aware I could have obtained such a treasure, I would have had nothing else for my dinner to-day; and if you were not so far advanced in years I would not object to make you a cordon bleu.” The earthen pan was immediately conveyed up stairs to the dining-room, and deposited upon the table of his seigneurie, where an excellent dinner was waiting for himself and friends ; but the immortal pot-au-feu, resting on a superb silver tray, with its handle half broken off, made all the homage of the dinner, to the great annoyance of the cook, who had thus sacrificed the art he had displayed in dressing a most recherche dinner, and felt much offended at the whim of his wealthy master, who had neglected his dinner to take pot-luck with his porter’s wife. By a friendly introduction to La Mere Binard, I, with a great deal of sup- plication, obtained from her the following valuable receipt, having been obliged first to listen to the constant repetition of the above anecdote before she could explain it to me. — “I generally choose,” says she, “a bit of the gite a la noix, part of the aitch-bone, a piece of the rump, or a slice from the thickest part of the leg, weighing from four to five pounds, with sufficient fat attached, or adding a small piece ; then I put it into the earthen pan, and fill with cold water till within two inches of the rim, being about four quarts; then I set it by my wood fire until beginning to get hot, when a thin scum will arise by degrees, which I carefully take off and throw away ; then I add half a pound of beef liver, and a tablespoonful and a half of salt, it will pro- duce more scum, which also carefully remove; have ready prepared, well washed and clean, two middling-sized carrots cut in halves, then in four, two small pieces of parsnip, four turnips, two onions, with two cloves stuck in each, eight young leeks, or two old ones, a head of celery cut into pieces three inches in length, tie the leeks and celery into a bunch, and put altogether into the pot-au-feu, set it alone nearer the fire until it commences boiling, skim again, draw it a little farther to the corner of the fire, put a wooden skimmer across the pot, upon which rest the lid to prevent its boiling fast, (which would entirely spoil the soup, the meat becoming very hard and the soup thick and muddy). “You quite astonish me, Mrs. Binard,” said I. “Oh,” says she, “ I have had so many years of experience, and I know it to be the case.” “ Yes,” said I, “ my dear lady, I do not in the least doubt your correctness.” “ Well, then, one hour afterwards I add a little cold water to keep it to the same quantity, put in a burnt onion to give it a colour, and let simmer four hours, sometimes five, depending if the meat is cut very thick ; then I cut some large thin slices of bread, which I lay at the bottom of the tureen, then I take off the greater part of the fat, cut the bunch of celery and leeks open, lay them upon the slices of bread] with one of the carrots, two turnips, and the pieces of parsnip ; take half of the broth with a ladle, which pour into the tureen, (there being quite enou li Boup for six of us, myself, Binard, my daughter and her husband, and the