KITCHEN OF 624 (u.) A lift, by which dinners are conveyed to the coffee-rooms either by steam or by hands. (s.) The back staircase for servants. (t.) Principal Kitchen. The size of this kitchen is twenty-eight feet long and twenty-four wide ; in the middle is an elm table, made on a plan entirely original, having twelve irregular sides, and giving the utmost facility for the various works of the kitchen, without any one interfering with another. The principal length is twelve feet by seven wide, and three inches thick. Under the edge of the table, in front, are two sliding boards, two feet long and two inches and a half thick, which are used for straining sauces, purees, &c.; as these sliding boards are lower than the table they are particularly useful, and save an additional width; below are two drawers, and at each end, in front, are two little moveable copper buckets with water, handy for sponging off any blood or mess left upon the board or table after the cutting of poultry, game, or fish. In the same direction there are two columns supporting the ceiling and passing through the table, round which, at a convenient height, are copper cases lined with tin, in ten compartments, each of which contains every ingredient and chopped herbs of the seasons for flavouring dishes, such as salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, crumbs and rasping of bread, eggs, chopped onions, &c.; the other contains various sauces for fish dressed in the English style. These cases turn round at will on castors fixed under it to the column, so that, without moving from your place, you can get every ingredient you may require ; the diameters of the columns are one foot, 3 and the cases for ingredients project over three inches and a half; as columns are not always wanted to support the ceiling of a kitchen, the cases might easily be introduced on the table supported by a stand, turning in the same way as, and similar in shape to a lamp. In the middle of the table is a cast-iron steam closet, four feet one inch