709 KITCHEN AT HOME. Apricots, pears, &c., may be done the same, but omitting the butter; tor either, cover whilst still warm. The above fruits also thus prepared may be covered with a souffle of rice, or ground-rice pudding, and baked; they may be then served either hot or cold. No. 268. Snoiv Eggs are made with the whites of eggs, thus : whip the whites of five eggs very stiff, to -which add (mixing lightly) five ounces of sugar; have boiling in a flat stewpan upon the fire a pint of milk, form pieces of the mixture with a tablespoon in the shape of eggs, and drop them into the boiling milk to poach; when set rather firm take them out with a colan- der-spoon, and lay them upon a sieve with a plate under to drain ; when all are poached your milk will be reduced to about half; then in another stewpan put the yolks of three eggs, with a little sugar, and a few drops of orange- flower water, beat well together, then add the milk, and keep stirring over the fire until forming a thickish custard (but not allowing it to boil), when pass it through a tammie, dress the eggs tastefully in crown upon your dish, pour the custard over and serve. You may also poach six or eight very fresh eggs in water, with which you have added a little vinegar; w'hen well set take out with a colander-spoon, drain them upon a cloth until cold, dress them upon a dish, or in a flat glass dish, pour a custard over, prepared as above, but with which, if handy, you have mixed a little whipped cream. For every description of omelettes I must refer my readers to the series of omelettes in the other department of this work. No. 269. Plum Pudding. Pick and stone one pound of the best Malaga 1 raisins, which put in a basin, with one pound of currants (well washed, dried, and picked), a pound and a half of good beef suet (chopped, but not too fine), three quarters of a pound of white or brown sugar, two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel, two ounces of candied citron, six ounces of flour, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, with a little grated nutmeg ; mix the whole well together, with eight whole eggs and a little milk ; have ready a plain or ornamented pudding-mould, wrell butter the interior, pour the above mixture into it, cover a sheet of paper over, tie the mould in a cloth, put the pudding into a large stewpan containing boiling water, and let boil quite fast for four hours and a half (or it may be boiled by merely tying it in a pudding cloth previously well floured, forming the shape by laying the cloth in a round-bottomed basin and pouring the mixture in, it will make no difference in the time required for boiling) ; when done take out of the cloth, turn from the mould upon your dish, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over, i and serve with the following sauce in a boat: put the yolks of three eggs in a i stewpan, with a spoonful of powdered sugar, and a gill of milk, mix well together, add a little lemon-peel, and stir over the fire until becoming thickish (but do not let it boil), when add two glasses of brandy, and serve. The above sauce may be served poured over tbe pudding if approved of. An excellent improvement to a plum pudding is to use half a pound of beef i marrow cut into small dice, omitting the same quantity of suet. No. 270. Currant Pudding. Put a pound and a half of flour into a basin, with a pound of beef suet, shred and chopped very fine, and a pound of cur- ■' rants, well washed, picked, and dried, add a little powdered cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, and mix well together, with four whole eggs, a quarter of a