xxxiii BOUQUET DE GIBIER. OLIVE-BRANCH BETWEEN PRANCE AND ENGLAND. A present extraordinary to the King and Queen of the French was forwarded from London to Paris on the 21st of December by the well- known Gastronomic Regenerator, M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, and was presented to their Majesties on the 24th, in the morning, at the Palace of the Tuileries. Their Majesties were so delighted with the novelty and elegance of the composition, that after a long examination the King ordered it to be carried to the apartments of her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians, who was exceedingly pleased with it, and after- wards the whole of the royal family was summoned to see this bouquet; the sight was so new and unexpected that it met with their unanimous approbation. His Majesty then observed that such a welcome and graceful present from a foreign country had never before penetrated through France to the palace of its kings. Immediately after, by the orders of his Majesty, the sporting nosegay was carried by two °-en- tlemen porters to the council of ministers then sitting at the Tuileries and was admired by every one. It is reported that his Majesty intends o have a similar bouquet carved in wood for ornamenting the grand sideboard of the magnificent banqueting hall of the palace. To give an idea of the composition of this splendid innovation, the following description perhaps will be interesting to the public. The length of it was about ten feet, and wide in proportion. The frame was richlv covered with Christmas holly, laurels, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a gieat variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two heads of game consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, black peweets, teal, French and English partridges grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, black cocks fihtlTfillpd eVfiret’ i, h?re’ fd &olden Plo^rs; the interstices were pnlmly f t*1 T1 7heatyancl oats= the whole ornamented with tri- , °Uxed n!iands and small flags at the top—and to give a still more p easing effect, fancy birds of beautiful plumage, so abundant in DTban<f IT"1’6 SpTad U\,eVery part °f this magnificent nosegay, lhe following letter from his Majesty the King of the French ac- companied with a beautiful pin forming a bouquet of diamonds and pearls, was sent by his Majesty’s orders to the French Ambassador and forwarded to Monsieur Soyer at the Reform Club. Monsieur, Cahmet du Roi, Chdteau des Tuileries; 1847. men8 de ieM™e.SpSr «m„,g„age de satisfaction, le hij„„ quc je ^ tions. RCCeVeZ je V0U8 Prle’ Monsieur’ mes plus parfaites saluta- Le Secretaire du Cabinet, Monsieur Alexis Soyer. CAMILLE FAIIN.