19 Tolence we have always regarded as a good sauce, and have often observed It to be an excellent dessert. The man who tucks his napkin under his chin immediately after con- ferring a benefit on a fellow-creature, invariably manifests marvellous capabilities for di- gestion; and, on the other hand, the man who has dined to his own entire satisfaction, if solicited in the nick of time, will frequently evince an open-handed generosity, to which his more matutine emotions would have been strangers. But—to reverse the picture—any interruption to the near prospect of a “ copious dinner” is at all times inimical to charity ; while repletion, we know, occasionally reveals such unamiable dispositions as could not have been detected by the most jealous scrutiny at an earlier period of the day. Nations are but individuals. We understand, therefore, the noble lord to mean, that all the history of all the thousand races of the globe concurrently teaches us that every great event social or political, domestic or foreign, involving their national weal or woe, has been harbingered or commemorated by a “copious dinner.” Many familiar instances of this profound truth- some of very recent date-crowd into our recollection. But we cannot help suspecting a deeper meaning to be inherent in the enunciation of this “great fact.” Copious dinners are as it strikes us, here covertly represented as the means of effecting the most extensive ameliorations. To dine is insinuated to be the first step on the highway to improvement. In the consequences which flow from dining copiously, what is beneficial is evidently stated to preponderate over what is hurtful, the qualifying “sometimes" being only attached to the latter. In this respect, dinners seem to differ from men, that the evil is more freouentlv “interred with their bones,” while the “good they do lives after them.” This is assuredly ringing a dinner-bell incessantly to the whole universe. We have ourselves, not half an hour ago, paid our quota for participating within the last week in congratulatory festivities to two eminent public characters. The overwhelming recurrence, in truth of these enter! tainments, drains us annually ot a handsome income; and, reading as we do daily in the newspapers, how every grocer on changing his shop round the corner, and every professor of dancing, on being driven by the surges ol the Utilitarian system up another flight of sta rs must, to felicitate or soothe him receive the tribute or consolation of a banquet and demon^ wl00,’ r„ u'd UP 0UZ hands 111 amazement at the opulence and deglutition of Scotland What shall become of us, driven further onwards still, by tbe impetus of the « oSonomic Regenerator, we dare not fortell. The whole year may be a circle of public fea^s • nml our institutions gradually although with no small velocity, relapse into the common’tabte of Sparta. But never, whispers Soyer, into the black broth of Lycurgus. And so be e, snares us into the recognition of another fundamental principle, that the simpliciW of Laconian fare might be admirably appropriate for infant republics and penniless helots but worlH^Th10 subs'stence an, overgrown empire, and the possessors of the wealth of the world. Thus cookery marks, dates, and authenticates the refinement of mankind The savage cuts his warm slice from the haunches of the living animal, and swallows ft reeS from the kitchen of nature. The civilized European, revolting from the dreadful renast burns, and boils, and stews, and roasts his food into an external configuration colour and substance, as different from its original condition as the mummy of Clmops differs from the Cheops who watched, with an imperial dilatation of his brow, the aspiring immortalTtv of the pyramids Both ,n acting so differently, are the slaves and the types of tbe c reum ,fr° ol their position. The functions in the frames of both are the same • but these fnn^i curiously follow the discipline of the social situation which directs and regulates H, • ' j"S velopment. The economy of the kitchen is only a counterparUn its simnlSv nr ee dr* cation, its rudeness or luxury, of the economy of the state. The subjects of leiMarei,"11’ 'i despots may eat uncooked horses with relish and nourishment. The denizens^f a uomfcl system whose every motion is regulated by an intricate machine^, in which he C " all the myriad wheels in motion are indented with inextricable multiplicitv of each other, perish under any nurture which is not ns intricate comulev °? lnt® confused. What a noble and comprehensive science is this Gastronomy ’ ’ ' Cm ’ and ‘Are you not also,” says the philosophic Soyer, in the same interestino- diain^..^ .< r opinion with me, my lord, that nothing better disposes the mind of man to amitv i>ft ?’ i°f and deed, than a dinner which has been knowingly selected, and artistically served “n answer is most pregnant. “It is my thinking so,” replies Lord M. II. “ which h,,'. 1 1 made me say that a good cook is as useful as a wise minister.’» Behold to wh„f * f we are carried! The loaves and fishes in the hands of the Whigs, aud Sorer at the iuh e Club to dress them 1 Let us banish melancholy, and drive away dull care Th! i n'°lm propensities of a foreign secretary ure happily innocuous. The nimnnr. The bellicose like the idle wind which we regard not. Protocols and treaties notes and ,7” us are henceforth disowned by diplomacy. The figure of Britannia with 1 r®Presentations, ,pK Ior “«< ■ TtoSw ss “Surveys mankind from China to Peru;”