G76 KITCHEN AT HOME. (which you may perceive by the smoke arising from it, or by throwing a firm* of water in, if sufficiently hot it will hiss and snap),’ put in potatoes, and fry about ten minutes until crisp, Lid a very lUt brown colour; care must be taken that the fat is not too hot, or the potatoes would be burnt before they were sufficiently cooked. 1 1 Another method of frying potatoes, although rather more extravagant is very simple and excellent: put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan or saucepan, and when me ted put in twenty small new potatoes, if in Wo n ol potatoes cut as before, place over a sharp fire, stirring them occasional until ot a nice gold colour; should they absorb all the butter, add a little more when done sprinkle a, little salt over, and serve round the fillet or steak- this may be used in many instances in the kitchens of the wealthy. ’ No. 148. A new Steak. Procure a piece of ribs of beef containing a couple of bones, from which detach the meat, and cut three steaks lengthwise beat l.ghtly with the cutlet-bat trim a little, broil one or two, seasoning them weU and serve with sauce and fried potatoes as before. ’ No. 149. Fillet or Steak a la Maitre d\Hotel. Cut, trim, and broil the fillet oi steaks, from either the rump or ribs of beef, as before (always butter LL'b wK 1 P CVhem UP°? y°Ur dish’ have feady two ounces of butter with which you have mixed a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon, rub <11 ovei the steaks, turning them three or four times, the butter mixino- with before^7 f°imS an admirable sauce J serve with- fried potatoes round as The above steaks or fillets are also very excellent broiled as above and served with anchovy butter (page 33), instead of the butter prepared as last directed, and using one ounce instead of two. Should any of the above steaks be required plain broiled, to give them an extra zest, sprinkle chopped eschalots in addition to the other seasoning over previous to placing them upon the gridiron ; a steak cut of the ordinary size, would require ten minutes broiling over a good fire. Mutton and lamb chops or even cotelettes, are very good dressed in the before-mentioned manners; a little glaze, it handy, is also an improvement. For mutton chops, a little llarvey sauce and Chili vinegar poured over just before taking from the gridiron renders them very beautiful eating. No. 150. A new Mutton or Lamb Chop. Having previously and success- fully introduced a new joint (the saddle-back), I thought I would also intro- duce a new form of mutton or lamb chops, and adopted the following one, as represented in the engraving, which is not only very novel, but the manner in wincii file chops are cut, by jagging the meat, causes them to eat much lighter an ie^ or, they being sawed oil the saddle instead of cut from the loin : proceed as follows : ' a ^idling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops, half an inch in lickness, with a saw, without at all making use of a knife; then trim o c s ape represented in the drawing; season well with salt and pepper, p ace upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times, ey wi require about ten minutes cooking; when done place them upon « is.i, spread a small piece of fresh butter (if approved of) over each, sene. ihe bone keeping the gravy in whilst cooking, is a very