717 PAQODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. Deux Filets de Grouse & la Bohexnienne, Deux Escalopes (le Filet de Boeuf, sauce poivrade. Centre. One slice of Salmon en Matelote, _ Deux Croquettes de Volaille, a la Puree de Foie Gras, Un Ris de Veau pique a la Financiere. Deux Grenadins de Veau a la Palestine, Deux Boudins de Volaille h la Richelieu. Centre. Roast Duckling, Deux Eperlans frits a la Boulangkre, Salmi de Becasse. Deux Ris d’Agneau pique a la Puree de Choufleurs. Une Caille aux Feuilles de Vigne. Centre. A slice of Turbot a la Mazarine, Un Ailleron et Filet de Volaille^a la Marengo, Deux Rissolettes a la Pompadour. “ I can also give you a few plainer bills of fare for the same. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel, Carbonade de Mouton a la Provencale. Centre. Small Rumpsteak, Un Choufleur, sauce au beurre, Un Pigeonueau a la Jardiniere. Cboux de Bruxelles a la Cr&me, Minced Veal and two poached Eggs. Centre. Half a broiled Fowl with gravy, Pomme de Terre a la Iiollandaise, Un Filet de Boeuf, sauce tomate. Deux Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise, Quatre Jerusalem Artichauts a la Bechamel. Centre. Slice of Cod and Oyster sauce. Minced Beef, sauce piquante, Pomme de Terre frite. Stewed Oysters, Two Potatoes plain boiled. Centre. Stewed Rabbit and Onion sauce, Two Escalopes of Veal and Ham, Un Brocoli, sauce au beurre. “ The sauces and garnitures of many of these may be varied; and as you see in some of the lists two entries only served, and the other two compart- ments filled with vegetables, either plain or dressed, the centre remaining for something larger, either plain or dressed, according to the taste of different persons; but your good judgment will enable you to perceive clearly that the variations of which it is capable are almost without end. I beg also to ob- serve that the dish, after having been placed an hour or two in a hot closet (as it is customary to do with all dishes previous to the dinner being served), will retain the heat nearly an hour, without applying hot water, red-hot iron,