657 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 53. Turbot, the new French Fashion. Boil your turbot as in the last but dress it upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over with a thickish melted butter (having placed a border of well-boiled small potatoes round), sprinkle a few capers over and serve. No. 54. Turbot a la Creme is done with the remains of a turbot from a pievious dinner; detach the flesh from the bone, and warm in salt and water, make cream sauce as page 99, only omit a third of the butter. Brills are cooked in the same manner as turbots, but being smaller do not require so long boiling ; but in boiling any description of fish, never take it up until it leaves the bone with facility, which try by placing the point of a knife between the flesh and the bone, if done the flesh will detach imme- diately. No. 55. John Doree, Boulogne fashion. John Dorees, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from four to six pounds in weight and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size would require about three quarters of an hour; if any remain, dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. No. 56. Salmon, plain boiled. I prefer always dressing this fish in slices CtLVnCh h tW0 !,nchet 7 boiling it in plenty of salt and water } “ h°wihe W1°e fish be boiled’ or tbe head and shoulders b!ini & bllt they reqiUre lonSer boiling. Salmon eats firmer, by not serve wiHi ^ "a* boilil^i dress the fish upon a napki/and W r°bSi SaUCG (Pa§e 3°)’ sbrimP do-> or plain melted butter in a • • \ fresb sPngs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing ten pounds will require an hour and a half boiling; a head and ‘ ers weighing six pounds, one hour. The remains may be dressed a la creme, as directed for the turbot (No. 54). * directed hi ST* Sauce,Matel°te- C°ok three good shces of salmon as directed in the last, or a large salmon peal trussed in the form of the letter , less i upon a dish without a napkin, having previously drained off nil he water; have ready the following sauce : peel8fifty smaB onfonf P? a S°od teaspoonful of powdered sugar into a convenient-sized stew' UP°" a 8barP fire> aad as the sugar melts and turns veT' tbP fib ^ a Tuarter of a pound of butter and the onions, place it ao-fin „Ln re, tossing them over occasionally until they become^ slio-htlv°brnwi]p 1 then add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well, but gentivlS c, ’ and a pint of broth (reserved from some soup) le ^ stove skm, well, and tthen the onions nre done and Shelve “Xr t A add a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of catsup, one of H,rvpv! t kj ‘,UenClle8 (N0' 124• The remainder of the above is very good if put in flip nven ,. with a cover over and a little additional sauce 1 * Up°n a dmh No. 58. Cod Fish, plain boiled. (Sec page 119.) No. 59. Cod Fish earned ere,- mil Oyster Same. Boil three shoes of the 42