KITCHEN AT HOME. 6G7 a quart of the stock the head was boiled in, season with salt and sugar, reduce until of a proper consistency, rub it through a hair sieve or tammie, put into another stewpan, boil up, skim, and sauce over the head, which serve with rice, plain boiled, in a separate dish. No. 108. Llalf Calf's Head & la Vinaigrette. (See No. 460, Kitchen of the Wealthy.) No. 109. Half Calf’s Head Broiled, Sauce Piquante. Boil the head as before, when done drain upon a napkin, place it upon a baking-sheet, egg over with a paste-brush, cover with bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter upon it at various places, and put into a hot oven until well browned; dress upon your dish with a pint of good sharp sauce (page 15) round. The tongue and brains may be served dressed as described before, with each of the methods for dressing calf’s head. No. 110. Large Veal Pie. Have ready boiled a pound of streaked bacon, when cold cut it in large thin slices, also cut four pounds of lean veal from the fillet into large but thin slices, season each piece well with pepper and salt, and dip them into flour; lay some of the bacon at the bottom of a pie- dish, then some veal, over which sprinkle a little chopped eschalots, then more bacon, and so on alternately, finishing in a perfect dome ; have ready a pound of half puff paste (p. 480), place a band round the edge of your dish, wet it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of water to the meat, cover with the remainder of the paste, egg over, and decorate it tastefully, bake an hour and three quarters in a moderate oven. They may also be made of the remains of a joint of veal previously served, but half a pint of white sauce (No. 136) used in it, and the water omitted, but the paste will then require to be much thinner, and it must be baked in a much warmer oven, or the meat would eat dry ; a couple of bay-leaves in a veal pie is a great improvement. No. 111. Saddle of Mutton u la Bretonne. (Seepage 189.) No. 112. Leg of Mutton basted with Devil’s Tears. Procure a fine but small leg of mutton which has been well kept, cut an incision in the knuckle in which put a clove of garlic, rub all over with a spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of cayenne, two ditto of black pepper, and another clove of garlic (well mixed), and let remain upon a dish until the following day, when place it upon a spit before a sharp fire, then procure about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, place it upon a long toasting fork, running the prongs through the rind, and hold over the fire until in a blaze, then hold it over the mutton upon which it will drop in tears of fire, until all melted ; it will give the mutton quite a peculiar flavour and appearance, and requiring a quarter of an hour less to roast than in the ordinary method; when done dress upon your dish sauce over with two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce and serve. No. 113. Leg of Mutton, the Housewife’s Method. Have a good leg, beat it a little with a rolling-pin, make an incision in the knuckle, in which put two cloves of garlic, then put it into a braising-pan, with a pound of lean bacon cut in eight pieces, set over a moderate fire half an hour, moving it now and then untd becommg a light brown colour, season with a little pepper and Balt, add twenty pieces of carrots of the same size as the bacon, fifreen mid