641 KITCHEN AT HOME. This hold joint never makes its appearance in my Kitchen at Home, but I have frequently used the piece of fillet attached to it, which weighs from three to five pounds ; I leave about an inch of fat upon it, pass a small spit through, and roast from three quarters of an hour to an hour; for gravy I proceed as for the sirloin. Cold potatoes, previously boiled, put under it in the dripping-pan whilst roasting, and turned occasionally, are very excellent. No. 4. Baron of Beef. It is an old saying that two extremes often meet, so with me, I leave my five pounds’ joint roasting and, like Gulliver, make a step towards the empire of the giant. This is, indeed, a colossal joint, which at nrst sight would put a modest fire out of conceit, my smoke-jack out of order, and, above all, drive my few guests’ appetites from their frugal stomachs ; they not being initiated in the grandeur or importance of a civic or aristo- cratic banquet would consider it a mighty dish of vulgarity. But stay, friends, I would observe grandeur and magnitude are far from being vulgar ; to prove that my assertion is correct I have the opinion of ages, for it is a dish almost as old as England herself. I have before stated that Charles the hecond gave the title and importance to the sirloin, and I have no doubt the baron owes its origin also to some such cause or great event, which I will attempt to discover for the information of some of my readers who, like myself, at present may be entirely ignorant of its origin, which I feel assured will prove interesting. A baron of beef is generally cut from a small ox, and includes the two rumps and two sirloins with one of the rib bones on each side ; it must be trussed precisely as for a saddle of mutton ; pass a spit, which of course must not be too large, through the spinal-marrow-bone, then wrap the beef up in paste as for a haunch of venison (No. 540), only a little thicker, add also more paper, set it three feet from a brisk fire, pouring fat over the paper to prevent its catching fire, twenty minutes afterwards remove the spit two feet further from the fire, inclose it well with the fire-screen, and roast eio-ht or mne hours, keeping it turned by hand; half an hour before it is done take off he paste and paper and give the beef a fine gold colour, when take up dress in a dish *ith gravy under and serve. The ancient style was to serve as- sentation of St. George and the dragon, cut from vegetables, upon the top fiesh salad also of every description used to be placed around, but the whole was obliged to be removed at the commencement of carving. Having promised my readers that I would make all possible inquiry relatino- “ ThDg j°inTt CaUed bar°n °f beef’ a carefa* search inlo f and others has not, I regret to say, been attended with quite a • °,ablf result> and the only information which I can at present obtain e legendary one that King John, after signing Magna Charta at Runnymede, partook of a repast in the company of his barons consisting of ^ °lthe fbs of beef roasted> and that hence arose tbe saying \ 1 b f‘ ,Now tIus aPPears very much like the traveller’s tale that contraicUt/01 “ ^ namcly> that no one Present could possibly pminf' 5‘ RT? °i Reef- “ Here ” says J°hn Bull, with a good-humoured prenareTfS W which a round of beef bein'