From ‘ THE TIDIES’ of the 19th FEBRUARY, 1847. Third Edition.—Yes! a third edition of this truly nationul work now lies before us. The public, as we shrewdly foresaw, have not failed to appreciate the labour of its author. Alexis Soyer has received the reward that sooner or later is bestowed upon the philan- thropist and the patriot. It may possibly be remembered that when the incomparable cook of the Reform Club was overcome, to use bis own words, with “ a thrill of horror,” by the request of several persons of distinction, “particularly the ladies,” who urged him to publish a cookery book, he suddenly recollected having been in “a most superb library,” where all at once his attention was attracted by the 19th edition of a voluminous work, which was supported on either side by the glories of a Milton and a Shakspeare. When the Rege- nerator found courage to open the precious volume, to his great disappointment he disco- vered “ a receipt for ox-tail soup.” “ The terrifying effect produced upon me,” says Monsieur Soyer, “ by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which ought to be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the temple of the Muses.” Alas, how rash are human resolutions! How little, in the obscurity of our spring-time, do we dream of the daz- zling splendour that awaits our coming summer 1 Every library, from the London to the British Museum, from Brocket Hall to the Palace of the Tuileries, has welcomed the Regenerator to its choicest shelf, and edition follows edition with a rapidity which, in the case of so ponderous a work, is positively marvellous. Like Byron, M. Soyer finds himself famous in a morning. We do not grudge him his greatness, but we confess we do envy the succeeding generations, who, destined to be the offspring of men lhat have been taught by Soyer to eat—not to appease hunger, but to elevate the soul,—will have acquired a delight in existence for which their grosser grandfathers were physically unfit. We welcome with all respect the third appearance of this true child of civilization. We can do no more.