KITCHEN AT HOME. 705 six ounces of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg, mix the whole well together, have ready, well buttered, a pudding-dish, into which pour the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until set; serve hot. No. 255. Rice Pudding. Well wash six ounces of Carolina rice in one or two waters, drain and dry it upon a cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cold milk and a quarter of a pound of butter, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, allowing its contents to simmer very gently until the rice becomes quite tender, when add six whole eggs well whipped, six ounces of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely coloured ; serve hot as before. Sago, tapioca, semoulina, and vermicelli puddings are made very similar to the last, and served the same ; they, may of course be flavoured with lemon, any description of spice approved of, or a couple of glasses of brandy, rum, noyeau, maresquino, or almost any description of wine, spirits, or liqueurs. No. 256. Macaroni Pudding. Have half a pound of macaroni, which boil in half a gallon of water until becoming tender, when drain it upon a sieve • Have ready boding in a stewpan half a pint of mdlc, in which put the maca- roni (having previously cut it into pieces an inch in length), with a quarter of a pound of butter and the rind of a lemon, free from pith, tied in a bunch; let simmer gently about twenty minutes, when take out the lemon-peel and add six whole eggs, well whisked, with six ounces of sugar; have ready a pud- ding-dish well buttered, into which pour the above preparation ; bake and serve as before. No. 25 7. Gateau of Rice. Well wash half a pound of Carolina rice, which wed drain and put into a stewpan with a quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a few sticks of cinnamon; let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is very tender, and the whole becoming thickish, when take out the pieces of cinnamon ; add six ounces of powdered sugar and eight whole ee<rS stir in quickly over the fire until becoming again thickish, when have readv a plain oval mould, well butter the interior, lay a sheet of buttered paper at the bottom, pour in the above, filling the mould to within three quarters of an inch from the rim, and place in a moderate oven, where let remain until set quite firm, when take from the oven, turn out of your mould upon a dish and serve quite hot, with a sauce over, as directed for cabinet puddin°-’ bateaux of macaroni, vermicelli, &c., may also be made by the above direc- tions, preparing them as for pudding, but making the mixture as directed for No. 258. Fruit Puddings. As almost every description of fruit puddine i, although om of the most WUt a Pou“d °f fl°ur uPon y°ur pastry Slab, with which mix half a pound of beef suet, well shred and finely chopped, make a hole in the centre in which pour near y balf a pint of water, mixing the flour and suet b by degrees anS baking the whole lightly together, then take two thirds, which roll up intc 45