KITCHEN AT home. 6fil sauce matelote (No. 57), or caper sauce, as for skate (No. 74) ; small carp are very good-flavored, bread-crumbed and fried. No. 80. Truite a la TwicJcenham. When you have cleaned your trout as described at page 23, put them into a kettle of boiling water, to which you have added a good handful of salt, and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil gently about twenty minutes, or according to their size, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, into which you have put a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins in a boat. The remains of trout, salmon, or mackerel are excellent pickled ; put three onions in slices in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one turnip, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, pass them five minutes over the fire, add a pint of water and a pint of vinegar; boil until the onions are tender, then strain it through a sieve over the fish ; it will keep some time if required, and then do to pickle more fish by boiling over again. No. 81. Truite a la Burton. Boil the trout as in the last, then put half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of cream and two of milk, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream (dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin), put two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and the juice of a lemon into the sauce; shake round over the fire, but do not let it boil; sauce over the fish and serve. No. 82. Tench, Sauce Matelote. Put three onions, a carrot, and turnip, cut in slices, into a stewpan, or very small fish-kettle, with a good handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, three bay-leaves, six cloves, a blade of mace, a little salt, and two glasses of sberry ; lay your tench over (it will require four for a dish, and they may be either cooked whole or each one cut into two or three pieces), add a pint of water, cover down close, and stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour, take them out, drain upon a cloth dress in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce over made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57), or as for stewed earn (No. 78). 1 No. 83. Tench with Anchovy Butter. Cook the tench as in the last but they may be plain boiled in salt and water; dress upon a dish without a napkin then put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of milk ; place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add an ounce of anchovy butter (page 33), shake it round over the fire until the butter is melted when sauce over and serve. No. 84. Perch fried in Butter. Clean the fish as explained (p. 94), dry well, make an incision upon each side with a knife, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan over a slow fire, lay in the fish, fry gently, turning them over when half done ; when done dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter in a boat. No. 85. Perch, Hampton Court Fa.shion. Cook the fish as above, and have ready the following sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a’ stewpan with a little salt and the juice of a lemon ; when upon the point of boiihm stir in the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream ; do not let it