18 many of the speculations In which we had Indulged, and of the principles which we had ndvocated, were obviously not quite in harmony with the views long inculcated by us on a , docile public. Suddenly the truth flashed across and illuminated the perplexity of our pon- derings. We were aware that, early in the evening, a much milder censure than usual upon some factious Liberal manoeuvre had passed our lips. This took place just about the fourth spoonful of soup. The spells were already in operation under the shape of « potage a la Marcus Hill.’ There is a fascination even in the name of this “ delicious soup”— such is the epithet of Soyer—which oui readers will better understand in the sequel. A fain it was impossible to deny that we had hazarded several equivocal observations in reference to the Palmerstonian policy in Syria. But it was equally true that such inadvertencies slipped from us while laboriously engaged in determining a delicate competition between “ John Vor6e d I’Orltannaise” and “ samnon a la Beyrouth A transient compliment to the influence at elections of the fumous Duchess of Devonshire was little liable to objection, we imagined, during a playful examination of a few “ aiguillettes devoluille a la jolie filled More questionable, it must be admitted, were certain assertions regarding the Five Points, enunciated hastily over a " neck of mutton a la Charte.” No fault, however, had we to find with theJ utting facetiousness with which we had garnished “ cotelettes d’agneau a la reforme en surpyi'ise aux champignons,’’ The title of this dish was so ludicrously applicable to the consternation of the remnants of the Melbourne ministry—the cutlets of lamb—in finding themselves outrun in the race by mushroom free-traders, that our pleasantry there- anent was irresistible. It was difficult, at the same time, to justify the expression of an opinion, infinitely too favorable to Peel’s commercial policy, yielding to the allurements of a ‘‘ turban des cailles d la financiered And, on the whole, we smarted beneath a con- sciousness that all our conversation had been perceptibly flavoured by “filets de becasses d la Talleyrand.” The result of these reflections was, simply, an alarming conviction of the tremendous influence exercised by Soyer throughout alt the workings of the British constitution. The causes of the success of the League begin to dawn upon us, while our gravest suspicions are confirmed by the appearance, at this peculiar crisis, of ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator.’ What patriotism can withstand a superabundance of untaxed food, cooked according to the tuition of Soyer? How can public virtue keep its ground against such a rush of the raw material, covered by such a “ batterie de cuisine?” Cobden and Soyer, in alliance, have given a new turn, and terribly literal power, to the fable of Menenius Agrippa. “ There was a time when all the body’s members Rebell’d against the belly.” Such times are gone. The belly now has it all its own way, while “ The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye, The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier, Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter,” are conjunctly and severally cuffed or bunged up, or broken, or stifled, unless they are perpetually ministering to the service of the great cormorant corporation. It is mighty well to talk of the dissolution of the League. The testament of Csesar, commented on by Mark Antony, was eventually more fatal to the liberties of Rome, than the irrepressible ambition which originally urged the arch-traitor across the Rubicon. ‘ The Gastronomic Regene- rator, in the hands of every housewife in the country, is merely to convert the most invincible portion of the community into a perpetual militia of free-traders. All cooks proverbially encourage an enormous consumption of victuals. The study of Soyer will infallibly transform three fourths of the empire into cooks. Consequently, the demand for every variety of sustenance, by an immense majority of the nation, will be exorbitant and perennial. No syllogism can be more unassailable. We venture also to affirm that the judgment of posterity will be rigidly true in apportioning the endurunce of fame which the conflicting merits of our great benefactors may deserve. It is far from unlikely that the glories oi a Peel may be disregarded, forgotten, and unsung, when the trophies of a Soyer, still odorous, and unctuous, and fresh, shall be in everybody’s mouth. The ‘ Gustronomic Regenerator’ bus not assumed his imposing title without a full appreciation of the dignity of his office, and the elevation of his mission. The brief and gruceful “ dialogue culinaire’’ between Lord M. II. und himself, illustrates the grand doctrines that man is a cooking animal, and that the progress of cooking is the progress of civilization. There is something prodigiously sublime in the words of the noble inter- locutor, when he declares, “ Read history, and you see that in every age, and among all nations, the good which has been done, and sometimes the evil, has been always preceded or followed by a copious dinner.’’ This language, we presume, must be considered, on the great scale, ns applicable to the most solemn and momentous occurrences in the history of governments and countries. Not that we can exclude it from individual biography. Bene-