8 champions of literature, Shakspeare; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work: such an immense success of publication caused me to say, ‘ Oh ! you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of fame upon your regretted ashes !’ Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great disap- pointment what did I see,—a receipt for Ox-tail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses.” Why, then, great artist, transgress this noble resolution? Why commit a desecration which, indeed, is no desecration, save to your own pre-eminent and too fastidious judgment ? Ah, shall we confess it? It is the old story, familiar to the playgoing public, and to the printers of playbills. “ The particular desire of several persons of distinction,’’ and especi- ally of the ladies, to whose appeals M. Soyer informs us he could never turn a deaf ear, has dragged the sage from his retirement, and compelled him to do violence to a settled convic- tion and a holy purpose. Some idea of the sacrifice which M. Soyer was called upon to make by the enireaties of the ladies and the distinguished individuals adverted to, may be gathered from the history of the hero during the composition of his work. For ten months he laboured at the pyramid which the remotest posterity shall applaud; and during the whole of that period he was intent upon providing the countless meals which a living generation have already approved and fully digested. Talk of the labours of a Prime Minister or Lord Chancellor ! Sir R. Peel was not an idle man. Lord Brougham is a tolerably busy one. Could either, we ask, in the short space of ten months—ten “ little months”—have written ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator,’ and furnished 25,000 dinners, 38 banquets of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, besides providing daily for 00 servants, and receiving the visits of 15,000 strangers, all too eager to inspect the renowned altar of a great Apician temple? All this did M. Soyer, and we back him for industry against even the indefatigable Brougham. That more than one of the 38 banquets were of the highest moment, and must at the time have engrossed the mind of their accomplished author, to the serious derangement of his literary avocations, admits of no question the moment we peruse one bill of fare which M. Soyer places before our dazzled and admiring eyes. A memorable dinner was given at the Reform Club, upon the 9th day of May of the present year, to a select party of ten highly-gifted connoisseurs; none of your gobble-and-gulp people, who, in their melancholy ignorance, swallow a potctge a la Comte tie Paris, or a rissolette d la Pompadour, with the same frightful nonchalance as a sailor will devour his pea-soup, or a rustic bolt his bacon ; but creatures of ethereal natures, devotees of what the painters call “ high art;” men who feed their bodies only to give elasticity and vigour to their souls. The Diner Lucullusian d la Sampayo was ordered with a magnificent contempt of expense. No money was to be spared in obtaining the most novel, luxurious, and rare compounds that ingenuity could discover or gold procure. Stimulated by the anxious and repeated visits of a noble- spirited, and judicious guide, a Grove and a Jay, a Townsend and a Morel, a Slater and a Solomon, surpassed themselves in the quality of the viands they purveyed. One dish, the “ Buissun d’ Ecrevisses Pagodatique au vin de Champagne d la Sampayo,” cost something more than seven guineas—a trifle ! Two large bottles of Perigord truffles, value four guineas, were stewed with the ecrevisses in champagne. We have no heart to proceed, for “the author regrets that, in fulfilment of an agreement between him and M. Sampayo, he is re- stricted from giving the receipt of crawfish a la Sampayo." Why was the dish mentioned at all, if the world is still to be deprived of the receipt ? The loss is a national one. Doubtless it would have been very popular at the small clubs, and in great request with gentlemen of limited incomes! But to return to the incomparable dinner. There were dotrelles aujc feuil/es de vignes, and there was miroton de homard aux tcufs de p/uvier, and there were many other dishes, too, enough as you would think to crown the happiness ot a cook, and to satisfy the ambition of the proudest caterer in Christendom. You know not cooks. At page 008 of ‘ The Regenerator,’ the soft sigh of a Soyer tails painfully upon the readers ear ; und no wonder ! A brilliant thought—one of those superb inspirations, the property of great minds—had occurred to our author during the procreation ol this matchless banquet. Mentioned by him to the mysterious and too exclusive Sampayo and his friends, they caught with joy the idea. Two dozen of ortolans and twelve of the largest and finest truffles were to be procured, and in each of the latter a hole was to be dug, wherein one ol the unctuous and semi-transparent little volatiles was to be buried. Yes, the delicate native ol Provence gloriously interred in the choicest production of Perigord; then must a piece of call or lamb’s caul (exquisite minuteness of description !) cover the aperture and shelter the im- prisoned bird; then was there to be braising in a gravy of fowls and Lachrym® Christt, pouched forcemeat upon the dish, the truffles in pyramid. Upon that, a puree with the