KITCHEN AT HOME. 668 dling-sized onions, and when half done fifteen middling-sized potatoes tw bay-leaves, two cloves, and a pint of water, replace it upon a moderate fm>° moving round occasionally, stew nearly three hours, dress upon vour dish with the carrots and onions dressed tastefully around, take off as much of tht fat from the gravy as possible (which will be a little thickened by the potatoes! take out the bay-leaves, and pour the garniture round the mutton which serve very hot. ’ LU No. 114. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard’s Method. Put a small shoulder of mutton in a deep saute-pan or baking-dish, season with a little penner and salt cover over with thin slices of fat bacon, then put in ten pota- toes peeled and quartered, and the same quantity of apples, with half a pint of water place in a moderate oven and bake for two hours, dress upon your dish, with the potatoes and apples round, skim all the fat from the gravy, which pour over and serve; it requires a little oil or butter over before baking. No. 115. Shoulder of Mutton d, la Polonaise. the other department of this work. As described (No. 467) in No. 116. Shoulder of Mutton, Provengale Fashion. Roast a fine shoulder °f mutton 5 whilst roasting mince ten large onions very fine, put them into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pass them ten minutes over a good fire, keeping it stirred, then add a tablespoonfnl of flour, stir well in and a pint of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when the onions are quite tender, and the sauce rather thick, stir in the yolks of two eggs and take it off the fire ; when the shoulder is done spread the onions over the top, egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, put in the oven ten minutes, and salamander a light brown colour, dress upon your dish, put the gravy from it m your stewpan, with a pat of butter, with which you have mined a little flour, boil up, add a little scraped garlic, pour round the shoulder, which serve, ilie shoulder may also be dressed in the housewife’s method, as directed for the leg. A little burnt sugar may be added. No. 117. Saddle of Lamb, Berlin Fashion. Roast a small saddle of lamb an hour, keeping it rather pale; you have boiled eight or ten good potatoes, peel them, put in a stewpan, add two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together with a fork, add half a gill of milk and one egg, turn well with a wooden spoon, let it get cold, and roll them in long shape and size of plover’s eggs, egg and bread-crumb twice, fry light- coloured in hot lard or fat; dress your saddle upon a dish, surround ‘it with the potatoes, have half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place upon the ire,^ and when upon the point of boiling stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre hotel butter (page 33) highly seasoned; when quite melted sauce round and seive with mint sauce likewise in a boat; for other variations see pages J7, 198, and following pages. Haunch, fore-quarter, or ribs maybe dressed the same. J o. H8. Ley or Shoulder of Lamb with Peas. The leg or shoulder must be plain roasted (see page 645) ; boil a quart of very youug peas, which s mm and put into a eiewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a tea-