THE REFORM CLUB. 629 I invented it after twelve months of the greatest inconvenience arising from a complete stoppage in many of the drains of the dub, which not only created an offensive effluvia but frequently caused the opening of the greater portion of the basement ot the house. Since the introduction of the trap bell to the sinks throughout the kitchen department such offence has entirely ceased. The bell is made of copper and is six inches long and ten in circumference. It screws to the sink and has several holes pierced through for the passage of the water only and the prevention of anything else passing down. It will be seen that the plug is attached to a rod, which is in its turn joined to a chain. By pulling the latter the plug is removed and if it be necessary to keep it open a link of the chain may be attached to a nail fas- tened in the wall. The expense is a mere trifle, the comfort none can fully appreciate. 1 am happy to add that my example has since been followed with similar success throughout the club, and that it has been likewise copied in many noblemen’s and club-house kitchens. I now beg leave to remark to my readers that if I have been a little tedi- ous or profuse in giving the exact measurement of the different parts and every object of this kitchen by feet and inches, it was with the view to be useful to those who have honoured me with their subscription, and the public, I daie hope that my humble efforts will have the effect of producing hereafter a reform in the art of building and fitting up a kitchen which, without being of an immoderate size, contains all that can be wished for as regards saving of time, comfort, regularity, cleanliness, and economy. I am happy to have this opportunity of acknowledging that without the great liberality of the honorable members of the Reform Club, and the kindness of that celebrated architect Mr. Barry, I could never have succeeded in accomplishing the improvements so essential in a well regulated establish- ment ; I shall, therefore, remain always gratified for the encouragement they never ceased to give me in confiding to my direction this new system of building and fitting up a kitchen which is now in active operation, not only for the economy of the Reform Club but to serve as a guide to the amateurs' ot a good kitchen as well as of good living. END OP DESCRIPTION.