KITCHEN AT HOME. 659 No. 68. Red Mullets. Procure two red mullets, which place upon a strong dish not too large, sprinkle some chopped onions, parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a little salad-oil over, and put them into a warm oven tor half an hour, then put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of salad-oil. stir over a moderate tire until getting rather yellowish, then add a tablespoonful of sherry, half a pint of melted butter, with a little chopped mushrooms and parsley ; reduce quickly over a sharp hre, keeping it stirred until becoming rather thick ; when the mullets are done sauce over and serve. No. 69. Mackerel are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing boding water, wed salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin, serve melted butter in a boat d:w mimites7011 a tablesP00nful of chopped fennel, boiling it a No. 70. Mackerel h la Maitre d'Hotel. au beurre noir. (See p. 12/) ; as also for Mackerel No. 71. Gurnets are best stuffed and baked; stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of butter over cut very thin, and bake half an hour or more (according to their size) in a warm oven, when done dress upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the fol- owmg sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good ancbovv into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish and serve8 7 1 . No< 72/ Boiled Gurnet. You may boil it either with or without the stuffing m very salt water, it will require rather more than half an hour- serve with anchovy sauce separate. ’ scive witii No. 73. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce. Boil six herrimrs nbmu —n but only just to iSSSS the following sauce : put half a gill of cream upon the fire in a stewpan wfi it bods add eight spoonfuls of melted butter, an ounce of fresh butter a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon a dish with out a napkin, sauce over and serve. 1 aisn without For Broiled Herrings a la Digon, see page 132. No. 74. Skate is usually crimped, cut into long slices and em-lnr! j procure two or three slices, tie them with string to keep the sbane in ’ put them into a kettle of boiling water, in which you have put a o-ood 1 1 !irSi of salt; boil gently about twenty minutes (hav/reaS X^apil nf ^ ver, which boil with it), when done drain well, and put it upon? li 1 v?6 out a napkin ; put three parts of a pint of melted Ltter in ? stel 1 upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wineMassful of nn ^ an’ ^ ace and serve. wmegiassrui of capers, sauce over For Skate au beurre noir, sec page 133. okate may also be served upon a napkin with a hnni nf „r„n i b“tter> ”Wch you have JLd . ,/oouM „f Survey^S°"C melW