643 KITCHEN AT HOME. the whole ol tne gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more frequently changed; the same mode would be equally successful with the aitch-bone. Ihe above is a joint which I have always considered too large for my Kitchen at Home, but the aitch-bone or brisket is easily managed. No. o. Aitcli-bone of Beef . A good-sized one would weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds. _ Pickle it precisely as directed in the last, but one week would be sufficient, boil nearly three hours, and serve with the vegetables round as before, and a suet pudding separate; if for cold do not take the tape from it until cold, trim the top, run a silver skewer in at the extremity, and serve garnished with sprigs of very green fresh parsley. No. /. Brisket of Beef The whole brisket would require pickling for a week, it must not be too fat; this being a long awkward joint may be cut in two and served upon separate occasions, boil about five hours and serve as for the iast two, with the vegetables around it; when upon table it must be cut into thin slices, fat and lean m fair proportions. The remains of a brisket of beef are excellent when cold. No. 8. Brisket of Beef a la Garrick. This dish will, I am sure be as popular with the English public as the celebrated tragedian and comedian whose name I have borrowed, even if he were now alive. Procure Tnice nsket of beef with as little fat as possible attached, if too much cut a little of it off and detach the whole of the bones from it, then make a pickle with twenty pounds of salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre, form cakes of lPtreUaVtW°nP0Un/1S °f m°1St SUgar’ and two cloves ofPgarlic, with which rub the meat well, and leave it rather more than a week, rubbino-and turn in o- it over every day; then drain and cut it into two equal parts, place one upon _ , °theii’ “-mnS the fat and lean well, tie them together, and afterwards in lean cloth put into a large stewpan or stock-pot containing six o-allons of water, and let simmer for eight horns, (but to ascertain correctly ff done run it mrl 1 6 C°Yei.’ P*ace lfc uPon tire meat with half a hundred weight unnn ’ nd let remain m a cold place until the next morning then take weight and the board, pull the cloth gently at each angle anVlh T ^ turn it over upon your dish, take the cloth off gently, gfrnish with an"' °°Sr parsley, fresh watercresses, and small radishes (if in £afon r ,t i i SS °f cros^se. Nothing could be nicer tb, LTXjifa t?"1" It Will keep good a fortnight in winter, and as long as a week in tw’ bv putting it in a ™lrl „i„„„ t i ,. & , weej£ m the summer No. 9. Ilmncl, 0/ Mutton. The haunch U the meet important Joillt fmu