14 ferent as their principles. But political discussions nre interdicted over the dinner table, and with M. Soyer us caterer we honestly confess that we could dine in all love and amity with a Radical or a Repealer, and get “jolly” with a Chartist or an Owenite. We shall entertain a better opinion all our lives of a party so well served in the culinary department. Our readers will be naturally anxious to learn the moving cause of the thousand gastronomic reflections that crowd the volume—what powerful agency impelled him tot adire lubores • and but for the habit of discursiveness which has marred our fortunes to the present hour we should have given it the prominence it deservedly obtains in the preface. Honour then to whom honour is due,—place aux dames—it is “ at the request of several persons of distinction particularly the ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power.” Never was there so touching a tribute of homage; never was the proverbial gal- lantry of his countrymen so strikingly or so gracefully exemplified. But we have all this time withheld our readers from a peeffinto the interior, and here our difficulties begin. We have rambled through the greater portion of the 700 or 800 pages of the book, and find every recipe an epic, every dish a picture, and ever)' sauce a study. We are perplexed between the glories of the diner Lucullusian, the most recherche dinner ever dressed, the pagodatique entree, the gateau Britannique a I'amiral, theortolaned truffles which Soyer devised, but the fates forbid, and the more unpretending but not less valuable details of “ My Kitchen at Home,” redolent of savoury and appetitizing streams, which are within the reach of the middle and humbler classes. All are exquisite in their way ; and had the Abyssinian prince, who roamed over half the globe in search of happiness, but lighted on this volume he would have sat down contentedly, ordered a new dish for every day in the year, and abandoned all thought of returning to the happy valley. Mats revenons a nos moutons, the approach to which is stopped by the cheveux de f rise of a carving-knife and fork. Now carving, being, the coup de gr&ce to cookery, rather unaccountably, but probably artistically, occupies the first chapter; and our author, after referring to the tribulation of carving “ for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity,” opens his instructions with the following curious historic anecdote (see p. xii). And then follow some very sage reflections upon the necessity of dining “ more or less once a day,” and a pathetic appeal to the “ manglers” not to tear to atoms the remains of our benefactors; and with this flourish of the knife enter “ directions for carving,” which are extremely brief and simple, and which are wound up with the hint, seldom attended to by even experienced carvers, that nothing is more creditable to a carver than leaving a piece of meat, game, or poultry fit to reappear at table in an inviting state. One extract more, and we shall terminate our pleasing labours, premising that our selection has been made more with u view to novelty than from any want of more recherche and attrac- tive materials. The fanfare is with reference to the French pot-au-feu (see p. 649). But here we must pause, for we are almost cloyed with sweets and dainties. With the best appetite and inclination in the world, we are reluctantly compelled to subscribe to our artist’s doctrine, that a man can dine but once a day, and our literary banquet has been already a most seductive and profuse one. ' We purposed giving the recipe of the far-famed pot-au-feu, but we presume it is already, or shortly will be, in the hands ot all the world, and if any of our readers have not yet made up their minds, we advise them to send without loss of time to Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. THE MOR.XTIM-G ADVEJITISEK. “ The fame of the Reform Club and its matchless cuisine, under the direction of that great master of his art, Alexis Soyer, have gone to the uttermost ends of the earth. To render that fume imperishable, Soyer has composed his * Gastronomic Regenerator,’ a work ■fc which is destined to throw all others, from the time-honoured Mrs. Glass to the learned Eustuche Ude, into the shade. The former, most loveable in her way, will henceforth only be remembered for her one receipt, “ first catch your hare,” &c.; the piquancy, the utile et dulce characteristics of Soyer, like one of his own chyle-begetting and renowned sauces, entirely neutralises, absorbs, swallows up the greatest effort of Ude. Tempus edax rerum ! Soyer is a wit and a wag of the first water; hence a perusal of the introduction to tbo goodly volume before us acts as a whet. “ Laugh and grow fat’’ is an old and a true adage; readSoyer’s introduction, und the veriest valetudinarian will afterwards sit down and eat like a man ! Soyer’s experience has been vast—magnijique ! hear, on the important head, what he tells his readers:—“During the lust ten months I had to furnish 25,000 dinners for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.’’ Authors frequently ussign a reason for writing; Soyer, in this respect, is not behindhand ; in his preface b