24 to several of his suite, placed it in his bosom. What was his Highness’s astonishment however, on again looking at the spot, to observe in the cream, as under a glass, a highly! finished portrait of himself, surrounded by a very carefully-executed frame. M. Soyer having been sent for by the party, was highly complimented by bis Highness, throughhi! interpreter. The Pacha desired to know where and how he could procure such a likene-s of his father, und how his own was so correctly drawn in the cream ? “ Please tell his Highness,” says M. Soyer to the interpreter, “that both were executed from the original sketches drawn by our celebrated artist Horace Vernet, whilst in Alexandria. The portrait in the cream is drawn on wafer-paper, which being placed on the dump jelly representing the glass, dissolves, and nothing remains of the wafer-paper but the appearance of the portrait painted in light water-colours. The imitation of the gilt frame is made with the cuu de vie ol Dantzic and gold water mixed with the jelly, the gold leaf of which forms the frame.” After having been thanked by the Pacha, the pyramidal cream of Egypt was ordered to be shown to each guest by sliding it from one to the other round the table. Though everything was eatable in it, this magnificent dish was respected, and remained untouched until the end ol the banquet, though everybody tried to partake of the fruit which surrounded it. The next dish which much amusfcd the company was the one entitled the “ Gateau Britannique a I’amiral,” being the representation of an old man-of-war, bearing the English and Egyptian flags, drawn on rice-paper, the ship being filled with ice vtousseuse aux ylche, and loaded wiih large strawberries, cherries, grapes, and bunches of currants. It was so placed on the table that Commodore Napier had to help from this cargo the illustrious stranger, who appeared much amused at the incident. The moisture and liquor of the ice gradually melted and imbibed the carcase of the vessel, which was made of a kind of delicate sponge cake. While the gallant commodore was in the act of helping the remainder of the ice, the ship gave way, and formed a complete wreck, which caused great hilarity among the company who were close enough to witness the scene. NEWSPAPERS, &c. IN WHICH M. SOYER’S WORK HAS BEEN NOTICED. Atheneeum. Bell’s Life. Literary Gazette. Liverpool Chronicle. L’Observateur Franyais. Morning Chronicle. Morning Herald. Morning Post. Musical VYorld. Naval and Military Gazette. Observer. Petit Courrier des Dames. Pictorial Times. Punch. Satirist. Sharpe’s Magazine. Spectator. Sun. Sunday Times. Tablet. Times. Weekly Chronicle. Windsor and Eton Journal. Atlas. Blackwood’s Magazine. Britannia. Brussels Herald. Builder. Chambers’s Journal. Colburn’s New Monthly, Court Journal. Courrier de PEurope. Douglas Jerrold. English Gentleman. Era. Examiner. Glasgow Constitutional. Globe. Guardian. Hood’s Magazine. Illustrated News. John Bull. Journal des D6bats. La Mode. Dispatch.