645 KITCHEN AT HOME. back of Welsh mutton or lamb will make a very fine remove. To carve, commence by passing your knife down the back where nothing hut the meat and skin holds it together, and from thence crosswise to the flap, serving a cutlet and a slice between to each person, continuing the same way through the saddle; you will thus carve the meat according to the grain, and produce fresh hot gravy for each person as you proceed carving. Should any remain, it is fit either to be sent cold to table or dressed otherwise advantageously. No. 11. Saddle of Mutton. Procure a fine saddle of mutton, about fourteen pounds in weight, that has been kept some time, take off the skin with a knife, and skewer the flaps under, run a lark-spit through the spinal marrow- bone, which spit affix to a larger one, and place down to roast as directed for the saddle-back ; it will require about an hour and three quarters roasting, and must be carved as in the last. No. 12. Leg of Mutton. A leg weighing eight pounds would take about an hour and a half roasting; run the spit in under the thigh-bone and bring it out at the knuckle, roast it as described for the haunch, and send to table with a frill upon the knuckle. When I have a leg of mutton to roast in my kitchen I make a small incision at the knuclde two or three days before roasting, in which I put two or three cloves of garlic, it will give the mutton a fine and peculiar flavour, not at all resembling the strong, and to some objectionable, flavour of garlic. I fre- quently serve it with haricot beans under it, dressed as directed (No. 1094). No. 13. Shoulder of Mutton of seven or eight pounds weight will require about one hour roasting ; run the spit in at the flap and bring it out at the knuckle, observe the same directions as before, not basting;, but raerelv rubbing it over with the butter. & 7 No. 14. Loin of Mutton. A loin weighing six pounds would require an hour to roast; take off all the skin with a knife, and separate the joints with a chopper, not cutting through the fillet; run a lark-spit through from one extremity to the other and affix it to a larger spit, observe the same directions in roasting as for the haunch. This is a very favorite dish of mine at home, where I in general joint it with a meat-saw so as to enable me to carve it into thin slanting chops, which look so much more inviting in the plate than those huge pieces which are generally carved. Ao. 15. Neck of Mutton. This f call a very recherche little joint when well kept; it must be nicely trimmed, sawing through the bones at the tips ot the ribs, which detach from the meat, folding the flap over; saw off the clime-bone, and with a knife detach the remainder of the bone from the fillet detach the skin from the upper part, fix the flap under with a couple of skewers* run a long flat iron skewer through the centre, from one extremity to the other5 hx it to a larger spit, roast (if weighing five pounds) nearly three quarters of an hour, observing the same directions as before, carve it crosswise, cutting it m cotelettes, one of which, with a bone, serve to each guest. Boded Leg of Mutton. Cut the knuckle from a leg of mutton ^inch has been hung some time, put into an oval braising-pan well covered with cold water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, place it upon a «lwp fire until boiling, when .kirn well, and place it upon'ti c comet ofThe fire to ..mmer about two hour., that ia, if the It, doe. not eseeed moreth™