719 CULINARY INNOVATION. ! it at home, and then give it to him; but is it practicable at this season of the | ^ “ Quite as practicable at one season as another, for it is partly composed of flowers which bloom in all seasons.” «Indeed! then I will certainly have it made.” “ I depend upon your impartial judgment; be so kind as to let me know what you think of that unique composition.” “ I will, without fail, and do myself the pleasure of writing you a note upon that subject. Good afternoon.” “ Good afternoon, Sir.” It has been reported to us, that as soon as he got home, he comfortably set himself in his arm chair d la Douariere, and appeared reading with great surprise the receipt for THE CELESTIAL AND TERRESTRIAL CREAM OF GREAT BRITAIN. Procure, if possible, the antique Vase of the Roman Capitol; the Cup of Hebe; the Strength of Hercules; and the Power of Jupiter; Then proceed as follows: Have ready the chaste Vase (on the glittering rim of which three doves are resting in peace), and in it deposit a smile from the Duchess of Sutherland, from which Terrestrial Deesse it will be most graceful; then add a Lesson from the Duchess of Northumberland; the Happy Remembrance of Lady Byron; an Invitation from the Marchioness of Exeter ; a Walk in the Fairy Palace of the Duchess of Buckingham; an Honour of the Marchioness of Douro; a Sketch fron Lady Westmorland; Lady Chesterfield’s Conversation; the Deportment of the Mar- chioness of Aylesbury; the Affability of Lady Marcus Hill; some Romances of Mrs. Norton; A Mite of Gold from Miss Coutts; A Royal Dress from the Duchess of Buccleugh; a Re- ception from the Duchess of Leinster; a Fragment of the Works of Lady Blessington; a Ministerial Secret from Lady Peel; a Gift from the Duchess of Bedford; an Interview with Madame de Bunsen; a Diplomatic Reminiscence from the Marchioness of Clanricarde; an Autocratic Thought from the Baroness Brunow; a Reflection from Lady John Russell; an Amiable Word from Lady Wilton; the Protection of the Countess de St. Aulaire; a Seraphic Strain from Lady Essex; a Poetical Gift of the Baroness de la Calabrala; a Welcome from Lady Alice Peel; the Sylph- like Form of the Marchioness of Abercorn; a Soiree of the Duchess of Beaufort; a Reverence of the Viscountess Jocelyn; and the Goodwill of Lady Palmerston. Season with the Piquante Observation of the Marchioness of