xxvm REMARKS. HOW EVERYTHING SHOULD BE IN COOKING. All clear soup must not be too strong of meat, and must be of a light brown, sherry, or straw colour. All white or brown thick soups must be rather thinmsh, lightly adhering to the back of the spoon. All purees must adhere little more to the back of the spoon. Any Italian paste must be very clear, rather strong, and the colour of slicrry* All kinds of fish sauce should be thicker for boiled fish than for broiled or fried. , , . , Brown sauce should be a little thinmsh and the colour of a horse- chesnut. White sauce should be of the colour of ivory, and thicker than brown sauce. Cream, or Dutch sauce, must be rather thick, and cannot be too white. , Demi-glace requires to be rather thin, but yet sufficiently reduced to envelope any pieces of meat, game, poultry, &c., with which it is served. Every description of fish should he well done, but not over-boiled, broiled, stewed, or fried. . . Beef and mutton must be underdone even for joints, removes, and entrees. Lamb requires to be more done. Veal and pork must be well done. Venison must be underdone, red in the middle, and full of gravy, but not raw. Poultry, either broiled, stewed, boiled, or roasted, must be done thoroughly, not cutting in the least red, but must be still full of gravy. Pheasants and partridges must be well done through, yet full ot gravy. . ... . Grouse, black cocks, gray hens, and ptarmigans, must cut reddish, with plenty of gravy, but not too much underdone. All kinds of water-fowl must be very much underdone, so that the blood and gravy follow the knife in carving. Plovers must be rather underdone, but done through. Rabbits and pigeons must be well done. Second-course savoury dishes must he rather highly seasoned, but with a little moderation. Pastry should, when baked, be clear, light, and transparent, and of a beautiful straw colour; the body of a croustade the same. Large pies, timbales, and casseroles of rice must be of a yellowish brown colour. Jellies require to be rather white and transparent for fruits, and not too firm, but better so than too delicate. Orange jellies should be of a deep orange colour, and all fruit jellies as near as possible to the colour of the fruit.