711 TO MAKE COFFEE IN AN ECONOMICAL MANNER. BY MY MENAGERE. After constant supplications to my menagere, I have obtained at last a valuable receipt of the method of making my coffee at home, which I must say she may well be proud of, having been continually complimented by my guests on account of its excel- i lence. It was only by touching her vanity, and assuring her that i it was not to oblige me but the public at large, that she permitted me to give it publicity, on the condition, however, that her name be appended. “ Buy your coffee not over-burnt; grind it at home if possible. Have a middle-sized filter like ours, which holds a little more than a quart, and came from Jakes’ or Benham’s, I forget which (but that is of little consequence, as you merely want the receipt), pour about a pint of boiling water into the filter to heat it through, then empty it, and put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee on the filter; then put on the presser, and lastly the grating; then pour about half a pint of quite boiling water over it, put the cover on, and let it drain through. “ After three or four minutes pour by degrees a pint and a half more boiling water, and when well passed through pour it from the filter into a very clean stewpan; set it on the corner of the fire, and when a little white scum rises to the surface (not letting it boil) pom- it a second time over the filter, and when passed I through pour either into the silver cafetiere or the cups. Serve boiling milk or cream in two small jugs, and white or brown, or sometimes candied sugar.” After promising her a fine gown for her kindness, I gave her a pen to sign her name. “ But stop/’ says she, “ I forgot that for your breakfast the next day I use a system of economy which I think will please : as soon as I have poured the coffee from the coffee-pot, I put i another quart of boiling water over it. This I find saves me an ounce of coffee by boiling it instead of water, and pouring it over as before.” (Signed) “ Irma ue L’Ombre.”