10 days you tire, honorable reader, subject to meet cn tete-a-tete with a fowl, poularde, duck, pheasant, or other volatile species ; is it not had enough to have sacrificed the lives of those aniniaux bicnfaisans to satisfy our indefatigable appetites, without pulling and tearing to atoms the remains of our benefactors ? it is high time for the credit of humanity and the comfort of quiet families, to put an end to the massacre of those innocents.” Incomparable benevolence ! Tenderest commiseration ! Perfect humanity ! “ We will be sacrificers, not butchers, Caius Cassius.” The philanthropic progress of the century has reached the kitchen, and animal love is most intense in the vicinity "of the stockpot. What would the kitchen of the Reform Club he without humanity and the liberal sentiments ? No more will barbarous cooks be haunted by horrid visions of the night! * Incipient porkers shall no longer pine away their sweetness, and stiive to toughen their crackling in anticipa- tion of a final flagellation. Eels shall no longer be required to give up their skins before their ghosts, and some humaner process than a surfeit of food, a deprivation of drink, and a gradual roasting near a scorching fire, will, let us hope, be discovered, to give to the livers of ducks that glorious expansion and pinguid richness so much appreciated by the epicure. We will not despair of witnessing, under the dominion of M. Soyer, the introduction and use of some instrument analogous to the guillotine, which by a stroke shall do its deadly necessary work: nay, might not advances lately made in Mesmerism be turned to good account in procuring painless death to those whom the feeling Soyer so beautifully calls our “ bene- iactors ?” A goose, in a state of coma, would be uncognizant of the penknife that divides its jugular ; calves and sheep properly subjected to the action of the magnetic fluid would pass from life into the larder without a struggle or a groan. But to carving! For joints, our author gives most lucid directions, which, if properly studied, cannot fail to convert the merest tyro into an admirable carver. For game and poultry he has done more. He has in- vented an instrument, to he bad at Bramah’s, in Piccadilly, and with which printed direc- tions are given, by theaid of which the joints of birds are severed without the smallest detriment to their good looks. “ Formerly,” he says, “ nothing was more difficult to carve than wild fowl, the continual motion (when alive) of the wings and legs making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzling the best of carvers to separate them ; my new method has quite abolished such a domestic tribulation.” For which, as well as for the many other benefits conferred by him upon the human race and the brute creation, we beg to reiterate our humble hearty thanks to the talented author of ‘The Gastronomic Regenerator.’ THE MORNING CHRONICLE. Alexis Soyer, the Gastronomic Regenerator.—Everybody who knows him, everybody who has sat before his dishes, everybody interested in the promotion of the Reform cause, or who likes to have a good dinner at home, has long since said in his heart “ Why does not Sover write a hook about cookery ?” When Reform was flagging, when Peel had it all his own way, belore a country party was thought of, or a revolt seemed possible, when the idea of the Whigs coming in was hopeless, and the party therefore needed consolation, what did Soyer do ? At that moment of general depression Alexis Soyer invented cutlets a la reforme. He didn’t despair, he knew the avenir that was before the party. Ha rallied them round the invigorating table, from which they rose cheered and courageous ; flushed with victuals, their attack upon the enemy was irresistible (as under such circumstances the charge of Britons always is), and Downing-street may he said to be the dessert of the dinners in Pall- mall. H e is one of the greatest politicians and pacificators in the world. If they bad him in Conciliation-hall, even there they would leave oil'quarrelling. Look at bis influence upon the diplomacy ol our country ! In this very day’s paper appears an account of a dinner at that very Relorm Club which Soyer loves, and which has stood ns sponsor to the great cut- lets which he invented—of a dinner at which Lord Palmerston and Ibrahim Pacha had their hands in the same dish of pilnR', and the maker of that dish was Alexis Soyer. To such a noble and magnanimous spirit as Soyer’s evidently is, such a meeting will cause pride and thanklulness indeed. It is a happy omen. They have eaten salt together, and the pence of Hie world is assured. How it was that Gibbon came to write the * Decline and Fall;’ under what particular circumstances Newton conceived the theory of gravitation ; how Scott invented his works, &c., are historic anecdotes with which all persons interested in literature are familiar. It is always pleasant to know how and where a great thought came into the brain of a great man, and so it is agreeable to know how this cookery book, which all the world longed for, was suggested to Soyer. (See the Preface.) Surely this preface is one of the most remarkable documents that ever ushered any book mlo the world. Soyer has made it a rule never to refuse anything in his power to the ladies (tae rogue) ! and, amongst other favours, they asked him for a cookery-book- The request