13 It would be incompatible with our limits to discuss fully tbe two systems of the author, and to abstain from any illustration of them would be unjust to him and unsatisfactory to the reader. We will therefore give one example of each—the magnificent and the simple ; and the first shall be a banquet served at the Reform Club, on the 9th of May last to a private party of ten persons (see page 009), and for a dinner party for eight persons, at home (see page 636). Of the simple arrangement for a bachelor or a married couple, combining, as they do, elegance with economy, we cannot give a selection ; because we would not offer a brick as a specimen of the house; but we strongly recommend them to all who are tired of conven- tional dinners composed of everlasting chops and steaks. In short the work of M. Soyer is one that cannot fail of being extensively read. If it be worth while to spend as much time as everybody does in eating, it is surely advisable to see that our time is not thrown away—that we live like civilized beings rather than New Zealand savages. In this important point the system of M. Soyer is worthy of praise, and we feel that we only anticipate our readers in thanking him for the labour he has bestowed in elucidating a pursuit that, in despite of twaddle, is at least one of the minor amenities of life. THE RZOR.lN'iarG HEHALD. We approach with all due reverence and respect the discussion of the important and mys- terious changes effected by the chemical action of that most potent of all galvanic agencies, whose resistless influence is acknowledged by sages, philosophers, and statesmen, and whose sympathetic vibrations find a response in every breast—thshatteriede cuisine. ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator ; a New System of Cookery.’ We have given both the titles, because in so deeply interesting a race, all parties from the Royal duke, whose gracious condescension sanctions the dedication in the title-page, to the humble artisan who sniffs the fragrant per- fume as he passes the area of tbe Reform Club, are entitled to start fair; and to the unini- tiated the pronomen would require a greater amount of consideration than accords with good digestion. For ourselves, we can only say, with the cockney lady in the play, “ How delightfully unintelligible! how far-fetched ! how French!” But we have a shrewd guess that the impracticable title was designed, like some of his sauces piquantes, as a cabalistic whet or provocative to the teeming fancies and gustatory glories of the interior, and that pronounced with due emphasis and discretion before a meal, it would “ create an appetite under the very ribs of death.’’ The importance of a good dinner is become almost an axiom in morals and philosophy ; with ourselves it has been elevated to the rank of an article of faith. We cannot, therefore, too highly appreciate the labours of distinguished men who, like M. Soyer, sacrifice themselves to a sense of public duty, and present to an admiring and hungry world those treasures of gastronomie which are the very triumph of artistic skill. The ancient proverb has it that “ any one can dine/’ to which modern political economy has added, “if he have the means,”—happily for the present generation they live in the third era of progressive advancement, when dining has become a science, and the good things which Providence has abundantly supplied to us are rendered subservient at once to health and refined enjoyment. M. Soyer tells us that nothing better disposes the humic; mind to amiable feelings than a dinner, bien conquel artistement prepare. How deeply grateful, then, should our countrymen feel who make dining the great business of life, and with whom a dinner forms the grand rallying point lor every striking demonstration of pleasure, or business, or friendship, or charity, to one who in the proud humility of his unrivalled genius is content to rank a good cook only on the same footing us a wise counsellor! We have been accus- tomed to vaunt of our liberty, our independence, and our unbounded wealth, but to our eternal disgrace be it recorded that, while we enjoy the fruits of their labours, we are silent on the subject of our obligations to the accomplished cuisinier. The talent and research of a Vatel, a Car&me, and a Bechamel have done much to place us on an equulity with our more fastidious and artistic neighbours, the French—it remained for a Soyer to consummate the good work, and place the golden atelette upon the croustade of the dindonneau d la Nelson. M. Soyer has evidently a just appreciation of the dignity of the science of which be is so distinguished a professor; with a mind comprehensive enough to grasp all the most intricate and difficult combinations of the culinary art, he is above the littleness of discarding his guests because they may add salt to their soup, contenting himself with the sage maxim that “ it is tbe duty of the cook to season for the guests, and not the guests for the cook.” And verily, if all our cooks were such “ top’’ Soyers, it would be downright heresy to “ paint the lily or add a perfume to the violet.” Since we read the work we have been tempted more than once to renounce our honest convictions, and sell our party for a mess of potage & la Julienne. We had no ideu that so much good could emanate from the Reform Club and lived in the belief that their dinners were us dull as their dogmas, and their pat£s as indif-