21 waves, and sails. On the same principles a club is preferable to a family fireside, and tho lot of a bachelor to the fate of a Benedict. M. Soyer, speaking ex cathedrO. from the kitchen of the Reform Club, would find it no easy matter to parry the cogency of this reasoning. He forgets, apparently, that he bares bis breast to a most formidable attack. What right have men to be cooks ? What hypocrisy it is to regret that women cannot eat those dinners which women alone are entitled, according to the laws of nature and the usages of Britain, to dress ! Be just before you alt'ect to be generous ! Surrender the place, and the privileges, and the immunities, which are the heritage and birthright of the petticoat! Hercules with a distaff was bad-enough ; but where, in the vagaries and metamorphoses of heathen mythology, do you read of Hercules with a dishclout? What would the moon say, should the sun insist on blazing away all night as well as all day? Your comparisons are lull oi poetry and humbug. A kitchen without a female cook—it is like a flowerless garden, a waveless sea, a sailless ship. A kitchen with a male cook—is a monster which natural history rejects, and good feeling abhors. The rights of women are scarcely best vindicated by him who usurps the most precious of them. There will be time to complain of their absence from the scene, when, by a proper sell-ostracism, you leave free for them the stage which it becomes them to occupy. These are knotty mutters, M. Soyer, for digestion. W ith so pretty a quarrel we shall not interfere, having a wholesome respect for an Amazonian enemy who can stand fire like salamanders. To be candid, we are puzzled by the sprightli- ness of our own fancy, and do not very distinctly compreheud how we have managed to Involve the Regenerator, whose thoughts were bent on the pule and slim sylphs of the boudoir, in a squabble with the rubicund and rotund vestals who watch the inextinguishable flames of The Great Hearth. This marvellous dialogue, from which we have taken with our finger and thumb a tit-bit here and there, might be the text for inexhaustible annotation. It occupies no more than two pages ; but, as Gibbon has said of Tacitus, “ they are the pages of Soyer.” Every topic within the range of human knowledge is touched, by direct exposition or collateral allusion. The metaphysician and the theologian, the physiologist and the moralist, are all challenged to investigate its dogmas, which, let us forewarn them, are so curtly, positively, and oracularly propounded, as, if orthodox, to need no commentary; and if heterodox, to demand accumulated mountains of controversy to overwhelm them. For he, we believe, can hardly be deemed a mean opponent, unworthy of a foeman’s steel-pen, who has at bis fingers’ ends “ Mullets a la Montesquieu,” “ Fillets of Haddock a la St. Paul,” “Saddle of Mutton a la Mirabeau,” “ Ribs of Beef a la Bolingbroke,” “ Pouding Souffle a la Mdphistopheles,” “ Woodcock a la Stael,” and “ Filets de Bceuf farcis a la Dr. Johnson.” The constitution of English cookery is precisely similar to the constitution of the English language. Both were prophetically sketched by Herodotus in his description of the armv ot Xerxes, which gathered its numbers, and strength, and beauty from “ all the quarter’s in the shipman’s curd.” That imperishable mass of noble words—that glorious tongue in which Soyer has prudently written ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator,’is in itself an un- equalled specimen of felicitous cookery. The dishes which furnished the most recherchi dinner Soyer ever dressed, the “ Diner Lucullusian a la Sampayo,” being resolved into the chaos whence they arose in faultless proportions and resistless grace, would not disclose elements and ingredients more heterogeneous, remote, and altered from their primal nature than those which go to the composition of the few sentences in which he tells us of this resuscitation ol the ctxna of Petronius. A thousand years and a thousand accidents the deepest erudition and the keenest ingenuity, the most delicate wit and most outrageous lolly have been co-operating in the manufacture of the extraordinary vocabulary which bas enabled the Regenerator himself to concoct the following unparalleled receint for “ The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain. (See p. 719.) Haifa century hence, when the simmering over the roseate fire is silent, may we with cen(fmfMma^nMion^! ° ^ °" halW consummation of the conceptions of his trans- The Regenerator is too conversant with universal history not to know that his book in crossing the Tweed northwards, approaches a people more familiar with its fundamental principles ban any other inhabitants of these Fortunate Isles. England, for anyth" g we care, may deserve the opprobrious title of perfidious Albion. Scotland-(“ Stands Scoihmd where it did? )-was ever the firm friend of France. Ages ago, when our southern co ins were incessantly fighting, wo were constantly dining, with the French O, , rl a s noblest fnmi ies were mingled b, tl,„ dearest lies wlAe ,,,Z anptadSblS of l o edopted and of Ms,,. For centuries uninterrupted!, dm maintained nn , te eb»nee of every gentle courtesy, and every iriendly succour; and when the broadsword w.Tnnf^fi S£5£ir «•« =■£ Regenerator did not disdain to Might on hung,, shores, ,„,d l««,.T„ES°t?W tl'eta