PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 718 or spirits of wine, which always produces a disagreeable effect, and is often the cause of a dinner being detained, as they must wait till the last minute before this operation commences.” “ This essential part,” he replied, “ added to its elegance, holds out most favorable prospects of success to this beautiful Pagodatique dish ; and I really cannot see why, in a dinner of eight, or ten entries, the four corners could not be ornamented with such dishes ; as they would produce the most agree- able effects, for too great uniformity in a service is not very picturesque,'=and unfortunately always employed. I have only one more favour to ask of you it relates to those birds’ nests.” “For the present I hope you will excuse me, as it is now five o’clock, and from six to eight I have several petits diners tres recherches, which require all my attention ; but favour me with another visit shortly, and then we will terminate our culinary conversation, without occupying our precious time about the eccentric Chinese, but will confine ourselves to their nests.” “ You are quite right in mentioning it. I should be very sorry to impor- tune you, for I know too well what it is to wait impatiently for a dinner, and know it to be equally as bad for a dinner to wait for you.” “ Both are very bad, but the latter is almost unpardonable to a real gourmet.” “ It may be, but observe, that by making a hungry stomach wait, you expose it to commit the greatest injustice ; because that ungrateful organ will make one believe that the minutes you are kept waiting before dinner are longer than the hours spent after.” “Your ai’gument is but too true, sir; and it. will prove to you at the same time, that there are immense difficulties to be surmounted in our very difficult and complicated profession, independent of the trouble and tedious work which must be carried safely through the greatest anxiety.” “Very true! very true! I wish you good afternoon; and before I leave London I shall do myself the pleasure of paying you another visit. Good day.” “I can assure you, sir, you will be most welcome. Oh, by the by, I am sorry to call you down stairs again, I will be with you in half a minute ; here it is,—I beg your acceptance of this small brochure, it is a receipt for the most recherche dish that ever was invented; it is extracted from my gastronomic work now in progress.” “Oh ! I am one of your subscribers ; when will it appear?” “Not before next season.” “That’s a long time.” “Yes, sir; but it is my intention to make an entire new work of it, and very different to any culinary work previously published. By that I do not mean to say it will be better, and perhaps not so good as many of them; but it will contain a large number of new receipts, written in a style which, I flatter myself, will tend very much to simplify the present system.” “Let me see this receipt, but I require my spectacles—here they are.— c La Crime de la Grande Bretagne, MacSdoine ; but it is French, I am sorry for that.” “ Why, sir ?” “ Because my cook is English, and it will be very difficult for him to make, as he understands so little of French.” t “ Oh, sir, if that is his only preventive, it would be a pity to deprive you of having it, so here is an English translation of it. You are welcome to both, sir. “ ‘ The Cream of Great Britain,5 oh ! thank you ! thank you ! I will read