KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB, &c. (a.) la bouciierie. This essential part of the kitchen department is complete in its several ariangements, and one cannot help noticing that in spite of the moderate size of this room everything is contrived with the utmost convenience, perfect ventilation, and with due economy. As this small space is fully adequate to t le general wants of this large kitchen, it must, therefore, be equally good for one of smaller dimensions. My object not being to fix the size of all pri- vate boucheries according to this, it therefore must be left to localities, and the details below may be taken as a general principle. The length of the room is twelve feet by nine; at the further corners are two blocks to cut the meat upon which are two feet in diameter, and two feet seven inches high, includ- ing the supporters, eight inches from the floor, giving facility to clean under- neath, also to prevent decay; between the two blocks is a patent scale of a simple construction, and very convenient, upon which can be weighed above two hundred pounds of meat with great ease. On the right and left,are two tables three inches thick slx feet six inches long, one foot nine inches wide, and three feet three inches high, with a drawer to each, and a square box covered over, underneath the tables, for waste fat, &c.; above the tables is a flat rod wi h small hooks, one inch and a half long and three inches apart, upon which are various sized meat-hooks; allround the room upon the walls are thick slates set feet high. Those slates lately introduced?,! buddiufl veot ckan'tlCU ar y recommend wllere co°lness is required, and also as bemg (b.) principal larder for meat and GAME. The gastronomic variety generally collected in this sanctuary of taste eqmres the utmost care and cleanliness, the joints prepared for the dav langed with symmetry and taste, so as to present to the eye the finest sides7 the same respecting the dressed meat dishes and cold poultry, which should livays be trimmed and garnished with fresh parsley, ready to be served up at ICmTS riCT 1 A rtilation’ beinS of the utmost Importance^ assi C+ ^ att|nded t0‘ The folWinS dimensions will greariy proportions.6 C°ntmanCe °f a larder perfectly convenient if built with the saml is eighteen feet long and fifteen feet wide, having on the right t • dresser fourteen feet long, three wide, and two feet ten inches hirii th , P is of slate one inch thick, instead of wood, which is an £^h S lute, and always covered with a dresser cloth; there are eiriit ice VrL! hl'arimihr Ca8t°rS’when large and deep as these> jt is advisable to make them a similar manner running on castors, as their weight would • U cause them to open with difficulty. The first four are two fit • ,°fh.en!,8e square and nine inches deep, creams, &c, the others beneath are deeper, fe X fi