THE GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR. OPINIONS OP THE PKESS. THE TIMES. The Gastronomic Regenerator.—The Modern Cook.—“ Any body can dine,” says the clever and profound author ot the ‘ Original,’ “ but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity ot health and enjoyment.’’ The pith and truth of this remark are un- questionable ; and, indeed, we know nothing more painful than that utter disregard of the very hi st principles ol gastronomic science evinced by so many unprincipled and reckless individuals oi the piesent day, who eat as though the sole object of eating were to sustain life. Not that they take the best means for accomplishing even that ignoble end. The rules, whose observance renders eating a luxury and an art, also conduce in the highest degree to health. S.ici ifices io Ceres and Bacchus, in the very act oi the offering, should have a sweet fragrance in the nostrils of Hygeia. Who shall affix a boundary to the possible progress of an art 1 Let the vulgar do so, who, struck by apparent perfection, conclude at once that the force of genius “ can no further go.*’ V\ e assert iearlessly that the limits ot human creation and improvement are yet unknown. Least oi all are they to be defined with reference to that great art which has been styled “ the standard and gauge ot human civilization/* and which Montaigne, with less respect, denominated th* science de la gueule. Sceptics were they who, revelling at the table of Louis XIV in the sauces of a Bechamel, or lingering at the board of the great Conde over the chefs d oeuvre ot a Vatel—that illustrious martyr to a point of culinary honour!—or inhaling gently and delicately, and degustating slowly, and with marvellous discrimination, the exqui- site and quintessential results of the vigils of an Ude, who refused, in their turns, to believe that the science professed by these great men could be capable of improvement, or was susceptible ol higher elevation. Alas! have we not lived to vote the resources of all per- ruque and rococo, and to behold the precious laurels that wreathed the temples of the culinary demigods ol the 18th century, transferred by acclamation in the 19th to the mighty brows 0 a Cateme and a Beauvilliers, a Soyer and a Francalelli—great names every one—poetizers 01 the spit, philosophers of the larder, sublime fire-worshippers, high priests of a kitchen xulier than Druidical groves of deep and sacred mysteries ? The two bulky and important volumes before us are characteristic of the distinguished artists to whom we owe them. Written, the one by a Frenchman, the other by an English- man (for Mr. Francatelli, in spite of his name, boasts of an Anglican origin), they differ greatly in lorm, although in substance, as fur as the uninitiated may judge, they are equally excellent. The Modern Cook enters upon his task in a grave and business-like fashion never tempted into digression, never moved into metaphor, ever keeping in view bis main object, which, we are proud to say, is eminently patriotic, for he seeks to elevate the cha- racter and position of Ihe English Cook, and to produce a work creditable to the gastronomic knowledge ol the nation. “ The Gastronomic Regenerator” is a different personage. He can allord to garnish his prose with the flowers of fancy, us his material dishes are crowned with crous/ades and atdettes ; he handles with equal ability the quill of Pegasus and the larding-needle, and records with the former the achievements of the latter, in a strain of enthusiasm and heroic sensibility that are not to be surpassed even in the odes of a poet laureate. We confess at the outset that there is much to marvel at in the recondite pages <>l the Regenerutor, but there is nothing to admire more than his matchless modesty his courteous urbanity, bis devotion to the fair sex, and his occasional touching and liiklv imaginative digressions. 8 ° ' “ Why do you not write and publish a Cookery-book ? was a question continually put to me. tor a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to nervuHn my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library m the midst of a splendid baronial hall, by chance 1 met with one of Milton’s allegoric.^ works, the profound ideus of Locke, the several chefs d’xuvre of one of the noblest