NEW PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. A LA SOYER.* The union which has been forced between the “ Children of the Sun” and those of proud Albion has thrown some beneficial rays upon our European domains and costumes, and if they have not improved our manners and habits, they have at all events changed them. I It is true that we had, previously to this, reaped marvellous things from the “ Celestial Empirebut the English nation, always eager for novelty, could not be contented with their (Ombres Chinoises) Chinese shadows, but must possess them in reality. Since this astonishing conquest you have Chinese quadrilles, Chinese fashions, exhibitions furiously Chinese, and, for certain, several millions of dollars, which are every bit as Chinese as the 8 illustrious descendant of more than forty centuries, whom you are still ex- pecting as a most extraordinary ambassador. I already perceive that your shoes, “jolies Anglaises,” change and diminish with great rapidity. Even now you appear to walk with difficulty; really, if you continue this practice, you will, like the Mandarins’ ladies, have very pretty feet for sitting, but very bad ones for walking. The intellectual part, which is covered with your splendid “ blonde chevelure,” will suffer as much as your little feet; and it will be a contest between your astonishing and gracious Amazons, who shall have their hair turned up first, in hopes to resemble your celestial sister and nuptial companion of the expected plenipotentiary. Your beautiful eyes, I hope, will remain in their primitive purity; also that clear and rich tone of colour, which brings to mind those extraordinary fine visages clair de lune de Vantiquite. The island of Great Britain adds to and preserves this superb and almost ephemeric colour, unknown to the soil of the Continent. You may, nymphs of the ocean, let your nails grow in the fantastic man- ner of that captured country; that is, near an inch longer than our insigni- ficant custom in Europe, which is, they say, “ a part of the world far from being civilized.” I would also advise you to use with moderation the beaume Cremeux Houbigant, which will preserve them that beautiful vermeil, so greatly admired. But reflect for a moment, in giving full scope to your fashionable taste, you sacrifice a thousand chefs-d’oeuvre, and entirely forsake • our illustrious favorites, Mozart, Rossini, Meyerbeer, Auber, Handel, and many others; because you recollect that the harp, guitar, piano, &c., were not invented for the Mandarins : but setting aside all these little tribulations, while walkin'- about with pain, you will have the gratification of hearing, “ There goes a lady of the newest fashion.” * Extracted from my “ Delasscmcnts Culinaires,” late) / published by Arcade; a second edition of which will shortly appear. Jeffe, Burlington