PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 716 great variety, small dinners (tris rechercM*) can be served upon it for one or two persons the sight of a small and delicate entrie will sometimes invite the appetite, where a large entrie approaches too near vulgarity, and would produce a contrary effect 5 to know how to live an Epicurean in desire is a great art, but so true it is, that if all our wishes were accomplished life would be an enormous burthen; and nothing can effect this important object but the delicacy and lightness of a well-conceived dish. This once obtained a first rate epicure will not only eat with a greater degree of zest and stimulation, but he will, at the same time, enjoy the pleasurable sensations arising; from his keen and unerring discernment, that the sister twins, art and science, have been busily employed m administering to his taste. I must also observe that from Ins profound knowledge of the rules of life, he will always bear in mind that ‘moderation is the goddess of health.’ ” J “ Very true! very true !” n “IZ i1nsl?Ce’ i r?al epicure, if wel1 aware> and can appreciate that he owes all the delights and pleasures of his existence to a good state of health,- for without it no one can enjoy the pleasures of life, and, still less, the pleasure of degustation ; so true is this, that even the company of our best and beloved friends, the possession of riches and honours, the greatest celebrity and glory lose their charms where health is compromised ; the most delicate food loses its zest, the most melodious chords of music, and the greatest optical delights are evanescent, the beauties of nature are lost, and everything is without charm, even the sun-yes, that sun itself, which pours life upon creation importunes our wretched frame with his torrent of light and universal splem dour; which proves that we ought profoundly to study those great agents of nature which preside over our organic movements. Allowing us to nse with moderation what our senses desire, is far from a meagre or redoubtable .privation for the illustrious disciples of Epicurus; excess and want of experience have often been the cause of man falling into the greatest errors, which have been most pernicious to his health. From the celestial vault the indefinable power desires to guide us safely, and by following his divine lesson we shall not only enjoy extreme happiness, but obey the dictates of our great and wise Creator.” ° “ I perfectly understand your argument, and have often recognized the profound truth of it. If it is not asking too much, would you be so kind as to name a few entries you would recommend for these compartments, and sufficient dinner for one or two ladies ?” “ It will give me much pleasure to do so, I will mention several: for in- stance, if a dinner for two persons, I would serve in the centre, filets de sole a la Hollandaise, and in the four corners Deux Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Pois, Un Filet deVolaille, pique a la Pur6e de Champignons, Deux Quenelles de Lapereaux aux Truffes, Demi Perdreaux en Salmi. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges, Quatre Rissoles aux Iiuitres. In the centre. Poulet printanier piqu6 aux Cressons, Deux Cotelettes de Mouton a la lief or me, Blanquette de Filets de Volatile aux Truffes.