REMARKS. XXVII F I S II. For the last few years there has been quite an alteration in the seasons for these golden and silvery inhabitants of the deep. Except the Cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness of rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle ; but the method I follow during the season is as follows: Crimped Gloucester is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common Salmon from March to July. Salmon Peale from June to July. Spey Trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot are in season all the year round. John Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all She year round for the epicure. May excepted. The original season of' Yarmouth Mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July ; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the west ol England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of Am'il Haddock and Whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dutch are’ also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. nriLt is like turbot as to season. Slips are similar to soles, good all the year round Gurnets are rather a spring fish. R1r*(,mdDiam0“d Plre- are ni f“U from June to July ed Mullets vary very muclr now, but the beginning of the eeieou was formerly the 12th of May; we had none thi yel exeent at aTerv extravagant pnee. I always use them when they Ire to be obtained ? ££ from Norember ,o ' SbTs«ib«>pMirnd part of the s,,mmer' pra™ «*>• September. end of February. & h °f SePtember, and last till the Barrelled Cod, Lent fish, are best in winter or about i Sprats come in about the 8tli of November ^ and also of a fbulof °f PrMoe- Ol an agreement between himself and M SaT 16S1<;ts t lat m fulfilment giving the receipt of Crawfish a la Sum™ amPayo he is restricted from Bill of Fare, No. 609. The reason of tb°5 Which h&8 aPP(;ared in his jiish is that two large bottles of truffes d Mp.e“om.OU8 expense of this f0Ur ■» «ewed with them U&i^c.do "0t COst FRUIT. epicure ; but* though either^eailbe'obl ^ n° p‘'inciP,1 guide for tin expense, they do lot repay