PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 715 « Ah! what is the use of those divisions, or compartments • “The Chinese, as I have been informed by several celebrated travellers, amongst which your great diplomatist, Sir Henry Pottinger (to whom I 1a latelv the honour of being introduced, upon the occasion of Ins visit to Ue y. Club), in viewing the dish, certified what I had previously heard from sever I illustrious men By the by, he has honoured me by subscribing for a set ot them—here is my album, and see, there is his autograph: . for four pagodatique entree dishes ; this completes the service for the pre- ■< sent, hut in a short time a complete service for first and second course can be I easily manufactured at a reasonable price. But to return to the subject. I i was telling you that those gentlemen had informed me that the Chinese have, upon their tables at their banquets, a profusion of fowls, and birds ot all kinds, ; served with sauce or gravy, a plate being placed before each guest, similar to t the European fashion, surrounded by three or four small saucers, each con- i taining different ingredients, spices, and pickles, suited to the dish they paitake of; each person takes a wing or fillet, that being the only part they consider • eatable. They then cut it in small pieces, on their plates, and dip them into the different sauces, until they produce a favorite seasoning to their taste. It i might not be to either yours or mine, but for all that, I do not blame them. “Ton my word, it is very curious and clever; by this mode your plate is 1 free from incumbrance, a fault with which I always reproach our nation. “ I have frequently heard of a ‘ Potage aux nids d’oiseaux,’ we call it in ! English, birds’-nest soup ; it is said to be of the most astonishing delicate « substance.” « I shall shortly have the pleasure of entertaining you upon that subject; we ' will now return to our new ‘ plat d’entree.’ ” Drawn by the frivolous fancy of fashion and folly of the times; why, I thought, should not I endeavour to make myself as ridiculous as any other person ; I therefore submitted to the proprietor of a large china establishment a drawing, from which he executed with great taste this pagodatique table n ornament. “ The several advantages which it possesses are easily understood, one entree ' may have four different sauces, four entrees the varieties of sixteen, or of eight, by putting the sauce double, I mean two compartments filled with the same sauce, and preserve the entrie as the Chinese do, au naturel. To add to its * To show plainly the interior of this dish, it has been drawn one size larger than it i is in reality. These dishes arc only to be had by applying to Mr. Soycr, of the Reform | Club, or at Mr. George Smith’s, No. 57, Conduit street, Regent street, he being the only h manufacturer.