694 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 215. Snipes h la Minute. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which lay six snipes, breasts downwards; add a spoonful of chopped onions, one ditto of parsley, a little grated nutmeg, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper ; set over a brisk fire seven or ten minutes (according to the size of the birds), stirring occasionally, then add the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry or bucellas wine, and a spoonful of finely-grated crust of bread ; let the whole simmer a few minutes, dress the birds upon a dish, mix the sauce well, pour over, and serve. No. 216. Plovers, with English raw Truffles. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which place four plovers, breasts downwards, and eight raw truffles, well washed, peeled, and cut into thickish slices ; add also two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally; add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with a gill of broth and a glass of white wine, let simmer ten minutes longer, skim well, dress the birds upon a dish, reduce the sauce, add a little sugar and the juice of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. No. 217. Wild Duck. Truss as directed (p. 688, No. 189), rub all over with the liver, making it quite red, and roast twenty minutes before a good fire, then with a sharp knife cut eight incisions down the breast; you have put au ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, the rind of an orange, free from pith, cut in strips, blanched in boding water, and well drained upon a sieve, and the juice of a lemon ; warm over the fire, and when melted, but not oily, pour over the duck, and serve. No. 218. Hashed Wild Duck. Cut up the remains of a duck or ducks into neat pieces, and put into a stewpan with half or a tablespoonful of flour, depending upon the quantity ; mix well, moisten with a glass or two of wine, and sufficient broth or water to make a thickish sauce, season well, add a little Harvey sauce, mushroom catsup, a little sugar, and cayenne pepper; let simmer but not bod, take out the pieces, which dress upon toast, reduce the sauce, pour over, and serve. A little colouring may be added d’ approved ot. No. 219. Widgeons. Truss as for wdd ducks, rub over with some of their livers, chop up the remainder, which mix with a few bread-crumbs, a little chopped lemon-peel, chopped parsley, and an egg, with which stufl the interior; roast nearly as long as for the wdd duck before a very sharp lire, dress upon toast on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put ha a glass of port wine into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; bod a few minutes, add the juice o a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over, and serve. Widgeons are hashed in the same manner as described for wdd duck. No. 220. Teal, a new Method. Procure four, draw them, then put half a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, pars cy, a spoonful of grated crust of bread, the juice ot a lemon, and the ui o teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover tliem with slices of lemon, fold in thin slices ot bacon, then in paper, am ro twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take oil the paper, brown t ic * dress them upon a slice of thick toast, letting the butter from the c. over it, and serve very hot.