KITCHEN OF 620 pipe supplied with iced water from a cistern above. On the opposite side, all along the wall, there is an hour shelf, thirteen feet and a half long and one foot six inches wide, divided by numbers showing the hour when dishes are to be cooked, which is from five to eight at night. Upon the same line on the left is another dresser, four feet and a half long and three feet wide, to cool sauces and stock before they are removed to the second larder to be put by the side of those already cooled ; a rule I would re- commend, because the fermentation of hot sauces or stock would affect those in the second larder if put there whilst hot. At the end of the passage on the right, and above the kitchen door, is a ventilating screen four feet square; it is a simple frame with two cross-pieces covered with canvas, and fixed horizontally above the door, with hinges so as to move it up and down at will, which is done by means of a cord nailed in the middle of the frame and passed through two pullies fixed in the ceiling, and tied with hooks on the wall opposite ; you make use of the cord the same as for a Venetian blind, the only difference is, that you keep moving it up and down all the time required to diminish the heat of the kitchen. No one would suppose, without seeing it perform, what surprising effect this simple contrivance produces, as the ascending movement draws away the heat from the kitchen into the passage, and introduces fresh air into it perfectly un- expected ; it is only on particular occasions, and in the heat of summer that it is made use of, as the ventilation of this kitchen is everything that can be wished for, it was more as a model for confined kitchens that I have applied this extra-ventilating screen. (g.) A small back yard, nine feet long and seven feet wide, separated from the passage by a glass partition and doors, wherein are deposited various things for kitchen use, and ice creams frozen. (h.) In the small passage leading to the roasting kitchen there is a lift worked by steam, to hoist coals to the sleeping-rooms; and a gas-meter inclosed in a wooden box for the supply of the gas-stoves in the principal kitchen. (i.) Passage leading to and from the roasting kitchen. (j.) The kitchen-maids’ dining-room, eight feet square, fitted with drawers, tables, closets, &c.; the entrance in the passage above mentioned. (k.) Roasting Kitchen. On entering into this room you see in a direct line the vegetable kitchen and the scullery. On the left there is a low cast- iron French stove for boiling large joints and making stock which has been previously boiled on a quick fire, and removed there to simmer gently; this stove is two feet seven inches long, two feet nine inches wide, and one foot nine inches high, and is purposely made low on account of the great weight lifted on and off. In the centre is a grate, one foot square, for charcoal. Contiguous to it is another cast-iron stove, or hot plate, the waste fire of which heats the small oven for gratins, souffles, &c. (see opposite). It is five feet long by two feet nine inches wide, and the same in height. At the end, on a line with the fire-place, is the steam-closet, six feet high, four feet and a half wide, and two feet deep, forming three shelves with the. bottom to keep the dishes very hot as well as the roasts ; near it is the large, roasting fire-place, six feet and a half wide and five feet and a half high. The grate is five feet wide and three feet high, and very shallow, giving a great heat at a compa-