652 KITCHEN AT HOME. two boys) ; then I take out carefully the meat, which I lay upon the dish with half of the liver at the side, the other half, when cold, I give to Minette (her favorite cat), lay the remainder of the vegetables round, with some fine sprigs of fresh parsley ; by that time the bread is (trempe) moistened ; set both upon the table at once, keeping the meat covered until we have done with the soup : that is the way we dine upon a Sunday. The next day, with the remainder of the broth I make vermicelli or rice soup, or the same with bread in it, and fricassee the remainder of the beef in various ways. When my daughter was ill I used to put a calf’s foot in the pot-au-feu with the beef; it made the soup very strengthening and did her much good.” " Will you be kind enough,” said I, “ to tell me where you get these burnt onions,' for I perceive without it your soup would be quite white.” “ Bless you, sir !” she replied, “ you may get six for two sous at any of the grocers, or you can burn them yourself in the oven, or by the fireside, gently turning them now and then until they are quite black, but not burnt to a cinder, or it would spoil the flavour of the soup.” I then took leave of her, returning thanks for her kindness, and put down the receipt as she gave it me during her lon°- explanation, as follows : Receipt. Put in the pot-au-feu six pounds of beef, four quarts of water, set near the fire ; skim, when nearly boiling add a spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound of liver, two carrots, four turnips, eight young or two old leeks, one head of celery, two onions and one burnt, with a clove in each, and a piece of parsnip ; skim again and let simmer four or five hours, adding a little cold water now and then ; take off part of the fat, put slices of bread into the tureen, lay half the vegetables over, and half the broth, and serve the meat separate with the vegetables around. Since I have been in England I have broken my precious earthen pot; I have, however, made some very good soups at home in a black saucepan or stewpan, but must admit not quite so delicate and perfect as in the identical pot de terre. SOUPS.—No. 35. Julienne Soup. Put about six pounds of knuckle of veal in a stewpan cut in four pieces, with about half a pound of streaked bacon ; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the stewpan, and about half a pint of water, place it over a sharp fire, moving it round occasionally with a wooden spoon until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze, when add about a gallon of water, two ounces of salt, three onions (with two cloves in each), two turnips, one carrot, a head of celery, leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf; when boiling put in twro burnt onions (see Pot- au-feu) to colour it, and stand it at the corner of the fire to simmer for two hours, keeping it well skimmed, then pass the broth through a hair sieve into a stewpan; you have previously cut two middling-sized carrots, two turnips, an onion, a leek, and a little celery into very thin strips an inch long; put them in another stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoQiiful of powdered sugar ; place it upon a sharp fire, tossing them over occasionally until well fried and looking transparent, then put them into the broth with the half a young cos lettuce, and a little tarragon and chervil, place it at the corner of your fire, and when it boils skim off all the butter: let it simmer until the vegetables are perfectly tender, when pour it into your tureen ; serve the veal and piece of bacon upon the dish with melted butter aud chopped parsley over. Beef may also be used for the above, and the vegetables cut in any of the shapes directed for the soups in the other department, of this work ; ^ y°u only require a smaller quantity, take only three pounds, or diminish .all in proportion.