KITCHEN AT HOME. 053 No. 36. Mutton Broth. Any description of trimmings of mutton may be used for broth, but the scrag end of the neck is usually chosen. Put about two scrags into a stewpan (having previously jointed the bone), with three onions (a couple of cloves stuck in each), three turnips, one carrot, and a bunch containing a leek, a head of celery, and a few sprigs of thyme ana parsley, fill up the stewpan with rather more than a gallon of water; when boding skim it, and place it at the corner of the stove, where let it simmer for three hours, then cut a small carrot, two turnips, an onion, and apiece of leek and celery into very small square pieces, put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of pearl barley, pass the broth through a hair sieve over them, and bod at the corner of the fire untd the barley is tender, when it is ready to serve; the meat may be trimmed into neat pieces, and served in the broth, or separately with melted butter and parsley, or onion sauce. No. 37. Irish Mutton Broth. This broth is made similar to the last, adding ten or twelve mealy potatoes cut in large dice, which by boiling to a puree thickens the broth ; just before serving throw in twenty heads of parsley, at the same time put in a few flowers of marigolds, which really give a pleasing flavour; it is then ready to serve. (At home I make clear soup of the trimmings of any meat, either beef, veal, mutton, or lamb, or the trimmings of two or three different sorts of meat, hi the same manner as directed for Julienne soup. No. 38. A very simple Receipt for the Scotch Cock-a-Leehj. This is a very favorite national soup with the Scotch, which by rights ought to have been the pride of Welsh cookery, ranking as high in the estimation of mdlions as their celebrated and generally appreciated rarebit, commonly called a Welsh rabbit. Take six or eight pounds of leg of beef (depending upon the quantity you want to make), with which make a stock as directed for Julienne soup, letting simmer two hours, and keeping it well skimmed; in the mean time trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, cutting off the roots and part of the head, then split each in halves lengthwise, and each half in three, wash well in two or three waters, pass the stock through a sieve into another stewpan into which put the leeks, with a fowl trussed as for boiling, let simmer very gently at the corner of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed season a little if required, and half an hour before serving add two dozen French plums, without breaking them; when ready to serve, take out the fowl, which cut into neat pieces, place in a large tureen, and pour the leeks and broth over, the leeks being then partly in puree ; if too thick, however add a drop more broth or water. Should the leeks happen to be old and strong, it would be better to blanch them five minutes in a gallon of boilino- water previously to putting them with the stock. Although an old cock is usually procured in Scotland for the above purpose, I prefer a youim one but should an old one be most handy, stew it a short time in the stock before passing it. No. 39. Ox-tail Soup. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joint put a small piece of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the o\’ tads, with a carrot, turnip, three onions, head of celery, one leek and a hunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, add half a pint of water and twelve grains of whole pepper, set over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until the