KITCHEN AT nOME. 686 liver into good-sizefl slices of the shape of hearts, season with a little pepper salt, and cayenne, sprinkle chopped eschalots and dried sage over and fold each piece of liver m a piece of the caul; put some butter in a saute or frying-pan, lay them in, place over the fire, let fry rather quickly, not too drv • when done it will be a beautiful colour; take out and dress in circle upon your disk ; have ready the following sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of catsup, and two of Harvey or Worcestershire sauce • when boiling pour over the liver and serve. To plain fry it, cut in slices, season with pepper and salt, dip in flour or eggs and bread-crumbs, fry a light brown in butter or lard, dress in a circle upon your dish, pour a gill of water into the pan, add a little Harvey sauce and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour; let boil a minute, add a little pepper and salt, sauce over and serve. No. 1/9- Pigs Kidneys. Cut them open lengthwise, season well with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste-brush, dip into bread-crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and eschalot, run a skewer through to keep them open, and broil for about a quarter of an hour over a good fire; when done place them upon a dish, have ready an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed the juice of a lemon, a litle pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of French or common mustard, place a piece upon each of the kidneys, place in the oven for one minute and serve. Pigs’ kidneys may also be sauted as directed for ox kidneys (No. 159). No. 180. Black Puddings. Very few people take the trouble to do them at home, it being part of the business of the pork butcher to prepare such delicacies. I shall, however, here describe a very simple method for making them more palatable tban those purchased in England, which have so much spice in them as to entirely destroy their delicate flavour. Cut into rather small dice twenty large onions, having cut off the roots, being hard, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of lard or butter, let stew gently, cut three pounds of pig’s flead, free from skin, into small dice, have ready boiled six heads of endive chopped fine, and put into the stewpan with the onions, add two ounces of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, and four spoonfuls of parsley, chopped with a little thyme and bay-leaf; then add six pints of pig’s blood, mix well, leaving no lumps ; if too thin add a few hand- fuls of bread-crumbs, or half a pound of well-boiled rice; have ready the small intestines, which well scrape and wash in salt and water, tie one end upon a tin funnel, having a piece a yard in length, closing it at the other end, fill with the above preparation by pressing through a funnel; take off the funnel, tie up the end, and put them into a stewpan of nearly boiling water, let simmer twenty minutes, pricking them occasionally with a pin; when no blood oozes out they are done ; take up and place them upon a dish until cold; when ready to serve cut into pieces four inches in length, cut through the skin at different places, broil ten minutes over a sharp fire, serve : plain, but very hot. These puddings are best made whilst the blood is still warm from the pig, which if killed at home, the other ingredients may be prepared previously. rlhe endi\e may be omitted, but for a real epicure procure it if possible; they are served in Frauce on the best of tables, and are quite worthy of that honour. Many kinds of black puddings arc also made in Scotland, where