698 KITCHEN AT HOME. size as the beef for steak puddings, and put them into a saute-pan, over the bottom of which 1 have rubbed an ounce of butter, seasoning them with a lit le pepper and salt, adding a little thyme, and a couple of bay-leaves ; about half cook and leave them in the pan until quite cold, then dip each piece in flour, lay them in the basin with a few slices of streaked bacon, finish the pudding and boil it two hours. For young rabbits and fowls I proceed the same, and cook the pudding the same time; but to the last two I frequently add a spoonful of cume-powder to make it palatable. For venison I pre- viously stew it well, except I have left the remainder of a haunch which I convert into a hash, making the pudding of it when cold; this puddin- will require very little more than an hour boiling. ° I frequently also make puddings'of various kinds of fish, of which one made from the fillets of mackerel is very excellent, the fillets cut into good slices, rather highly seasoned, and laid lightly in the pudding; it will require an hour and a half boiling, and must be eaten very hot to be well appreciated. Lels also make a good pudding, by cutting them into pieces an inch and a nail in length slantwise, and blanching them ten minutes in boding water, to extract the od, previous to putting them in your pudding, before making which dip each piece of eel m flour. s ° SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. For the roasts, second course, in my Kitchen at Home, I must refer my readers to that series in the other department of this work, as it is impos- sible to explain them more simply; so also for the various methods of dressing vegetables (there so fully explained), from the most expensive to the most simple; and, to avoid repetition, pass over those two series in the second course, and commence a short series of simplified second-course dishes, with a rew plain salads. No. 230. Salad of Cold Meat. This salad in France is very much in vogue, and very frequently made with the remains of meat from the pot-au-feu, "but any meat, either roasted, boiled, or stewed, may be used. Cut your meat in slices (with a little of the fat) about the size of half-a- crown place them upon a dish, with three eschalots chopped very finely, a spoonf ul ot chopped parsley, one of chopped tarragon and chervil, and a little salt aud pepper, pour six tablespoonfuls of salad-oil and two of vinegar over, toss well together without breaking the meat, and serve either in a salad-bowl or upon another dish; the above proportion is for a pound of meat. nother method is to have as many slices of cold potatoes as of meat, cut t e same size, and after well seasoning the whole, dress them alternately round he dish, one resting upon the other; mix two spoonfuls of oil with one of vinegar, which pour over and serve. Spring onions, slices of beet-root, and radishes, may also be introduced. The remains of poultry may also be dressed in a similar manner. No. 231. Lobster Salad. Break up a lobster, obtaining as much of the cs i as possible, which cut into slices, have likewise two hard-boiled eggs a so m slices, two anchovies filleted, and two cabbage lettuces, or any other 8a. !V .cu^ UP sm;fll; mix the whole well together with a fork in a basin, season "1 1 la * a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, one of