26 AENEY’s PATENT JELLY & BLANCMANGE POWDERS. For the last eighteen months, I have invariably used the ubove production, and must acknowledge that these Powders combine all the requisites generally expected in a new invention. It is well known that cooks, in the country in particular, are very often disap- pointed in obtaining calf’s feet, and it also happens at times that they do not always succeed in' producing a clear and fine jelly, although good in taste, not pleasing to the sight; the above Powders obviate all disappointments. They can be in store, and used when required; there is an economy in the cost, economy of time, und a certainty of having a brilliant jelly at any time.—A. Soyer. As these Powders are prepared with the very best material, they are equal to calPs feet; and although already flavoured, can be altered according to taste. Sold at Is. per Packet, or 2s. per Bottle, at 33, Frith Street, Soho Square; and at Arney’s Factory, Willow Mills, Mitcham Common, Surrey. One Packet at Is. will make a Jelly of one pint and a half; and a Bottle at 2s. three pints. MAKEPEACE’S CULINARY HERBS. I feel justified, from experience, in very strongly recommending Makepeace’s Culinary Herbs, which are admirably prepared for kitchen purposes, and of inestimable value for sea voyages. Their convenience and utility are decidedly of the greatest advantage in a well- organised kitchen ; the cook having at all seasons of the year every species of herb used in cookery, which hitherto could only be partially obtained. The flavour is kept in high perfection; and the appearance of these herbs are really pleasing to the sight. Amongst the great variety of them, parsley, sage, tarragon, and winter savory are particularly useful; the onion, garlic, and eschalot powders, when sprinkled over hot joints, steaks, or chops, impart a most delicious flavour to it. The veal and pork stuffing are very fine, and save an immense deal of trouble. In fact, 1 may say that no exception can be made, as all these excellent herbs are prepared, regardless of trouble and expense, in a most careful und scientific manner ; which is a great credit to the patience of the inventor, and a benefit to society.— A. Soyer. Sold in neat Boxes, sorted at l.v. and 2s. per Bottle, at 33, Frith Street, Soho Square; and at Makepeace’s Factory, Mitcham, Surrey.