720 CULINARY INNOVATION. Londonderry; the Stately Mien of the Countess of Jersey • the Tresor of the Baroness Rothchild; the Noble Devotion of Lady Sale; the Knowledge of the Bine Aids of the Marchioness of Lansdowne; the Charity of the Lady De Grey: a Criticism from the Viscountess of Melville with a Musical Accompaniment from the whole; and Portraits of all these Ladies taken from the Book of Celebrated Beauties. Amalgamate scientifically; and should you find this Appareil (which is without a parallel,) does not mix well, do not regard the expense for the completion of a dish worthy of the Gods” Endeavour to procure, no matter at what price, a Virtuous Maxim from the Book of Education of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent; a Kiss from the Infant Princess Alice; an Innocent Trick of the Princess Royal; a Benevolent Visit from the Duchess of Gloucester; a Maternal Sentiment of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge; a Compliment from the Princess Augusta de Mecklenbourg; the future Hopes of the Young Princess Mary; And the Munificence of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. Cover the Vase with the Reign of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and let it simmer for half a century, or more, if possible, over a Fire of Immortal Roses. Then uncover, with the greatest care and precision, this Mys- terious Vase; garnish the top with the Aurora of a Spring Morning; several Rays of the Sun of France; the Serenity of an Italian Sky; and the Universal Appreciation of the Peace of Europe. Add a few Beams of the Aurora Borealis; sprinkle over with the Virgin Snow of Mont Blanc; glaze with an Eruption of Mount Vesuvius; cause the Star of the Shepherd to dart over it; and remove, as quickly as possible, this chef-d'oeuvre of the n ne- teenth century from the Volcanic District. Then fill Iiebe’s Enchanted Cup with a religious Balm, nd with it surround this mighty Cream of Immortality. Terminate with the Silvery Light of the Pale Queen of Night, without disturbing a Ray of the Brilliancy of the brightest Queen of the Day. Note. “We are authorised by the Author to inform his readers, that even up to tins moment of finishing the printing, no answer lias been received from the Gourmet bciore mentioned, stating his opinions with regard to the Cream of Great Britain, on account, as we have been informed, of his cook not having as yet been able to complete the Dish.—J. E. Adlnrd