22 beneficence, which nro grateful to this hour in the nostrils and to the palate of prince and peasant. Nay, we shrewdly conjecture that some time-honoured secrets still dwell with u* of which the memory has long since perished in their birthplace. Boastful we mav not sufler ourselves to be But if M. Soyer ever heard of, or dressed, or tasted precis we have dressed and tasted, what is known to us and a very limited circle of acquaintances as Lamb-foasty,’ we shall start instantly from the penultimate habitation of Ultima Thule commonly known as John O Groat’s House, expressly to test his veracity, and cratifv ouJ voracity. Perhaps he may think it would not be too polite in us to transmit him the receipt Not for a wilderness of Regenerators! Could we unfold to him the awful leg-end in con- nexion with it, of which we are almost the exclusive depositaries, the cap so lightly lying on his brow would be projected upwards to the roof by the instantaneous starting of his hair The Last Minstrel himself, to whom it was narrated, shook his head when he heard it and was never known to allude to it again ; in reference to which circumstance, all that the bitterest malice could insinuate was, that if the story had been worth remembering, he was not likely to have forgotten it. “ One December midnight, a shriek”—is probably as far as we can now venture to proceed. There are some descendants of the parties, whose feelings, even alter the lapse of five hundred years, which is but as yesterday in a Highlander’s genealogy we are bound to respect. In other five hundred years, we shall, with more safety to our- selves, let them “ sup full of horrors.” ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator’ reminds us of no book so much as the Despatches of Arthur Duke of Wellington. The orders of Soyer emanate from a man with a clear, cool determined mind—possessing a complete mastery of his weapons and materials, and prompt to make them available for meeting every contingency—singularly fertile in conceiving and fortunate without a check in executing, sudden, rapid, and difficult combinations-overlook- ing nothing with his eagle eye, and, by the powerful felicity of his resources, making the most of everything—matchless in his “ Hors-d’ceuvres”—unassailable in his “ Removes”— impregnable in his “ Pieces de rdsistance”—and unconquerable with hi3 “ Flanks.” His directions are lucid, precise, brief, and unmistakable. There is not a word in them super- fluous—or off the matter immediately on hand—or not directly to the point They are not the dreams of a visionary theorist and enthusiast, but the hard, solid, real results of the vast experience of a tried veteran, who has personally superintended or executed all the operations of which he writes. It may be matter of dispute whether Wellington or Soyer acquired their knowledge in the face of the hotter fire. They are both great Chiefs—whose mental and intellectual faculties have a wonderful similarity—and whose sayings and doings are characterized by an astonishing resemblance in nerve, perspicuity, vigour, and success. In one respect M. Soyer has an advantage over his illustrious contemporary. His Despatches are addressed to an army which as far outnumbers any force ever commanded or handled by the Hero of Waterloo, as the stars in the blue empyrean exceed the gas-lamps of London—an army which, instead of diminishing under any circumstances, evinces a ten- dency, we fear, of steadily swelling its ranks year by year, and day by day—a standing army, which the strong hand of the most jealous republicanism cannot suppress, and which the realization of the bright chimera of universal peace will fail to disbnnd. Before many months are gone, thousands and tens of thousands will be marching and countermarching, cutting and skewering, broiling and freezing, in blind obedience to the commands of the Regenerator. “ Peace hath her victories no less than those of war.” But it is not to be forgotten that if the sword of Welington had not restored and confirmed the tranquillity of the world, the carving-knife of Soyer might not have been so bright. The confidence of Soyer in his own handiwork is not the arrogant presumption of vanity, hut the calm self-reliance of genius. There is a deal of good sense in the paragraph which we now quote. (See p. xi.) It seems a childish remark to make, that all salts do not coincide in their saltness, nor sugars in their sweetness. The principle, however, which the observation contains within it, is anything but childish. It implies that, supposing the accuracy of a Soyer to be nearly infallible, the faith in his instructions must never be so implicit ns to supersede the testimony of one’s own senses, and the admonitions of one’s own judgment. It is with the most poignant recollections that wo acknowledge the justice of the Regenerator’s caution on this head. We once, with a friend who shared our martyrdom, tried to make onion soup in exact conformity with what was set down in an Oracle of Cookery, which a foul mischance had placed across our path. With unerring but unreflecting fidelity, we filled, and mixed, and stirred, arid watched the fatal caldron. The result was to the eye inexpressibly alarm- ing. A thick oily fluid, repulsive in colour, but infinitely more so in smell, fell with a flubby, heavy, lazy stream into the soup-plate. Having swallowed, with a Laocoonic con- tortion of countenance, two or three mouthfuls, our individual eyes wandered stealthily towards our neighbour. Evidently we were fellow-sufferers; but pride, which has oc- casioned so many lamentable catastrophes, made us both dumb and obdurate in our agony