KITCHEN AT HOME. 077 great advantage in having chops cut after the above method. At home, when I have a saddle of mutton, I usually cut three or four such chops from it, cook and rub maitre d’hdtel butter over, and serve them with fried potatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle as a joint the next day. The above are also excellent seasoned, dipped into eggs, and bread-crumbed previous to broiling; for lamb chops proceed precisely the same, only broiling them a few minutes less. ° No. 151 Veal Cutlets. Cut four cutlets from the neck, half an inch in thickness, beat lightly with a chopper, and cut off the chine-bones, season them well; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, then into bread-crumbs, take out, pat gently with a knife, and broil rather more than ten minutes upon a gridiron over a good fire, turning occa- sionally, keeping them of a very light brown colour; dress upon a dish spreading a piece of the maitre d’hotel butter over each, turning them two or three times m the dish, and serving very hot. Veal cutlets are also very good served with the new sauce as for fillets of beef or steaks, and the fried potatoes around them. i Por*C l°Ps- T^e four chops from a lom of pork, each about an lfnH T1'1!11 11(ikneSS’ beat them hghtly> trim> season well with pepper and salt, brod nearly a quarter of an hour over a good fire, and serve very hot upon a dish, with or without apple-sauce in a boat. J No. 153. Fork or Veal Chops Fried. Put one ounce of butter in a smite ei'tl m ofH"""I ^ °VGr ^ bofom’ lay in four choPs> well seasoned as in her of the last two ; place the pan over a moderate fire, when the chons ecome coloured upon one side turn them over, they will require turniim fin or hree times before done ; when done, and of a nice colour, ffv P n°i Upoil.a disb 5 Put a spoonful of chopped onions in the pan which y untd becoming of a brownish colour, then take off as much of the fat as possible, add a teaspoonful of flour (mix well with a wooden snooni ^ i moisten with half a pint of water; stir quickly, add a baXffP™T oiling season with half a saltspoonful of pepper, two of salt one of ■, '01! two spoonfuls of vinegar, stir over the fir? £5fing . and two'efi b0 Ch|°Pn If? simmer five minutes, dress the chops upon’a dish fdJ two chopped gherkins to the sauce, which pour over and serve n Ida i dd colouring (No. 146) added to the sauce wo^ld im^fe’