673 KITCHEN AT HOME. dice; blitter the bottom of a large stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, add two onions, a small carrot, a turnip, three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and six of parsley tied in a bunch ; add a gill of water, place over a sharp fire, stirring round occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with whitish glaze, when fill up with three quarts of water, add a good teaspoonful of salt, and let simmer at the corner of the fire an hour and a half, keeping well skimmed, when pass it through a hair sieve into a basin ; in another stewpan put a quarter of a pound of butter, with which mix six ounces of flour, stirring over the fire about three minutes, take off,.keep stirring until partly cold, when add the stock all at once, continually stirring and boiling for a quarter of an hour; add half a pint of boiling milk, stir a few minutes longer, add a little chopped mushrooms if handy, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, until required for use, stirring it round occasionally until cold; the above being a simplified white sauce. For a brown sauce I use the same proportion as for the white, but bavin" beef instead of veal'for the stock, which must be made brown by placing four large onions cut in halves at the bottom of the stewpan, which must be well buttered, placing the meat over, standing upon the fire, and drawing down to a brown glaze before filling up ; the thickening must also be made brown, bv stirring a few minutes longer over the fire, and the milk omitted. Sometimes I make both stocks in the same stewpan, pass one half for the white sauce, and put a couple of burnt onions into the remainder, allowing it to simmer an hour longer, when pass and use for a brown sauce. No. 137. Melted Butter. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with which mix a good teaspoonful of flour, using a wooden spoon, add a salt- spoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of water, stir over the fire until just upon the point of boiling, when take off, add two ounces more butter, and half a tablespoonful of vine°ar keeping it stirred until quite smooth, and the butter well melted, when pass through a hair sieve or tammie if required (you can also use milk instead of water for the above) ; it is then ready for use. In making melted butter great attention ought to be paid to the above directions, it being almost in daily use. ° No. 138. New and Economical Lobster Sauce. Break up a fresh lobster use the solid flesh for salad or any other purpose, pound the soft part and shell together (in a mortar) very fine, place the whole in a stewpan, cover with a pint of boiling water, place over the fire, and let simmer ten minutes when pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin, and use for makimr melted butter as in the last, to which add a little cayenne pepper and a niece of anchovy butter (see page 33, Kitchen of the Wealthy) the size of a walnut • if any red spawn in the lobster, pound and mix it with a small piece of fresh butter, and add to the sauce with a little lemon-juice when upon the point of 8ervmg; an anchovy pounded with the shells of the lobster would be an im- provement ; some of the flesh may be served in the sauce. -• N°; \39‘ L°foter Sauce a la Crime. Cut up a small lobster into slices the ize °t half-crown pieces, put into a stewpan, pound the soft and white part wnl an ounce of butter, and rub it through a sieve ; pour three spoonfuls nf melted butter, and two of cream, over the slices in the stewpan, add halVa 43