702 KITCHEN AT nOME. Jelly made in either of the above methods maybe flavoured with arv nth liqueurs (the quantity used depending principally upon tasfrA „ otl?er n,m, brandy, or whiskey, whicE l„st a^more^XTpar^of No. 242 Syrup of Almond, Iced h la Farsovienne, a substitute fnr w mange. Almost every ordinary cook is acquainted with the old making a blancmange, and the tedimisnpsn nf t l • • metllod of Tte tV following ^substituted h°“ 1 of sweet and one ounce of hittpr oimn„fi0 i i-i 4.1 mortar tour ounces sugar to a thickish symn * lmu,d m^24'! PineaPPIe Cleam is what I now frequently make in the sum mer months, using the West Indian pineapples, which may be procured remarkably cheap. Peel a small one, aid put the rind into a^teZn ^ a ver t?S i°f SUSar’ ai'd two wmeglassfuls of water; let boil until deduced to mainLthnfktlSyrUP5 paSS * tlu'ouSh a sieve into a basin, cut the re- minder of the pine into very small strips, which put into the basin with the SP' have ready boding half a pint of milk, in which you have chssolved ather more than an ounce of isinglass, in another stewpan have the yolks of eggs, over which pour the ndlk, mix well, and stir over the fire* until it becomes a little thickish, but not boding, when pass it through a rievTover the yrup, m well together, place in a bowl upon some ice° keep ItiiS until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of cream° Tt^readVI PPed> fil1 your mould> ^ leav/upon the “e until ready to serve, when turn it out as in the last. 1 No 244. Prussian Cream. Put an ounce and a half of isinglass nre wmsly dissoNed, into a bowl, melt it, and add six glasses of anv liqueur and bowl ^ brandy’ Wlth SLX ounces of powdered sugar, let wed dissolve,%lace the bowl upon some ice, keeping its contents stored imtil upon th^ point of Md pfoetd Vbedfotree pnrtSOf°Pint whipped cream; fill you? mould. BOHEMIAN JELLY CKEAMS. vJv\e*b\?tr7ber-nj- Pi(ik ,and pass throuSh a fine sieve a pottle of owrl ' WbCr’ t0 Whlch add the iuice of a lcoion, six ounces of calf>7fpl “Spr’ fnd an ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass (or sufficient imnn i™ i to.set rt)» Put th.c above ingredients into a bowl, which set stir in Hi.- Ltpin? ds contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when and proceed .^before Pmt °f Cr6am’ previously whiPPed i fl11 your mould, anripntf1C11'l|’ raspberries, and currants, proceed as for strawberries, but for apricots, peaches, apples, pears, quinces, &c., proceed as follows : No. 246. Apricot Bohemian Cream. Stone and cut into slices ten