9 truffle that had been dug out of the graves, and a garniture of roasted ortolans. Stupendous thought! we have read of superior minds overcoming obstacles long deemed insurmountable, and have gathered from the perusal strength for the difficult struggle of life. Such strength find we here. “ An ortolan,” said Alexis Soyer, pondering on the difficult and self-ap- pointed task, “ an ortolan can hardly be truffled, but I will undertake that a truffle shall be ortolaned !” He might have added, “ ’Tis not in mortals to command success ; we’ll do more, Sampayo, we’ll deserve itfor great as the Regenerator’s conception was, it was not destined to be realized. The elements were uripropitious, and the ortolans did not arrive in time from Pari^, whence they had been ordered. This, however, was the only failure. Everything else was to the turn, the minute. At seven o’clock the Severn salmon arrived alive, and by express lrom Gloucester. Ten minutes later it smoked upon the board. Happy Sampayo !—happier guests !—immortal Soyer ! We turn to the pictorial portion of this notable book. After the agreeable portrait of the author, which laces the title-page, the first of the woodcuts that attracts attention is “ The Table ol the Wealthy,” with the motto, “ liien ne dispose mieux I’esprit humain a des trans- actions arnica Iks qiiun diner bien conga et artistement prepare.” A great maxim of diplo- macy ! How many treaties ot peace and commerce have owed their conclusion to the mollifying effects ot a series of good dinners ! What numerous misunderstandings have been arranged and thorny points happily settled, less by the wisdom of the ambassador than by the ability ol the ambassador’s cook ! On a judiciously-compounded sauce, or a roti cuit a point, or the seasoning of a salmi, or the twirl ol a casserole, may depend the fate of a crowned head, the marriage ol a prince,—the weal or woe of a nation. Is cookery, then, no art ? Truly is it—the highest, the noblest! A second plate, “ My f able at Home,” represents M. Soyer, in his foyers, presiding over a select party assembled round his hospitable and well-furnished board. Behold again the unrivalled gallantry ol the country, and the individual finding a vent in a poetic and touching smile. “ A gustronomical reunion, without ladies,” says the chief cook of the Reform Club, “ is a parterre without flowers, the ocean without waves, a fleet without sails.” Talking of fleets, let us pass on at once to the Turkey d, la Nelson, which deceased but much honoured bird is placed with its tail in the prow of a Roman galley, duly provided with anchor, sail, and all fitting appurtenances, and surmounted by fictitious ducklings. 'i j o —. — _ ~ **&&**Jo» wao»u8 wavca ui gate tt ICL Bacchante,—her canvas’ swelling to a favouring breeze,—her sides dripping with wine and marmalade,—her interior, even to the hatchways, filled with such a freight as none but Soyer could provide, and perfect gourmets thoroughly appreciate. It is whispered that upon this gallant ship Commodore Napier did fearful execution in the presence of his quondam foe and present Iriend, Ibrahim Pacha, when that illustrious individual dined with the Com- modore at his club. Assaulting the craft with the fierce impetuosity for which the hero of Acre is so renowned, and thrusting his boarding-pike—his spoon we would say deep into the hold ol the luscious craft, he destroyed in an instant Soyer’s labour of a day. Timbers were stove in or out,—sails came down by the run,—masts went by the board,—and all was wreck, where a second before all had been symmetry and perfection. Nothing that relates to the kitchen or the table has been neglected or overlooked by the Regenerator. We have plans and drawings of kitchens of every description from the matchless establishments of the Reform Club, with its ice drawers, slate wells, steam closets bains marie, and fifty other modern refinements, to the unpretending cooking-places of the cottage or the bachelor. But perhaps the section of the book to be chiefly prized by the general reader and indifferent gastronome, is the short one relating to carving. Good carvers are aimost as rare as good tenor singers. The proper dissection of flesh and fowl is a matter ol high importance, rarely excelled in, but should be always studied. It is mi as may put your neighbours in fear of their live however, if an accident should happen, make no excuses, for they are only an acknowledtr' ment of awkwardness. We remember to have seen a man of high fashion deposit a turkev in this way in the lap of a lady, but with admirable composure, and without ofterimr tlm slightest apology, he finished a story which he was £T e turning to her, merely said, ‘ Madam, I’ll thank inay not possess similar coolness, and (he same stoical dresses and the results of ladies’ indignation, M. Soyer’s improvements in curvi was telling at the same time, and then quietly iank you for that turkey.’ ” To those who indifference to the fate of ladies’ indeed »’ing are valuable “ Nutur<?> says I to myself, compels us to dine more or less once a day ; each of thiwo