G80 KITCUEN AT H03IE. ciently thick to envelope the kidneys ; when done pour out upon a dish and serve very hot. A few raw mushrooms stewed with the kidneys is also » great improvement. J ° a A bullock s heart is a favorite dish with some persons ; soak an hour in lukewarm water to disgorge, dry, and stuff the interior with a good vezd stuffing roast an hour and a half before a moderate fire, and serve very hot with a httle veal sauce (see page 647) around; proceed the same for calves* or sheep s hearts, but of course they will require less time. No. 160. Calf’s Head. Should you have any left from a previous dinner it may be dressed in various ways. To hash calf’s head, cut into good slices not too thm or it would have a bad appearance ; put a spoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and a gill of broth reduce to half over the fire, then add the slices of calf’s head and a mil more broth, season with a little pepper and salt, when quite hot through add half an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of flour first rf.i °? five Pieces> shake round over the fire until becoming a httle thickish, add a little colouring (No. 146) to give a light brown colour® pour out upon your dish, and serve with a few slices of gherkins sprinkled Calf s head may also be cut in slices, warmed, and served with some of the sauces as directed for fillet of beef, or curried as for the ox-tails (No. 156) • hashed calf s head, with a couple of spoonfuls of currie-paste added, is also very excellent. Ao. 161. Calf’s Brains ancl Tongue. Boil the tongue in stock or water until tender, lay the brains in lukewarm water to disgorge, then carefully take ofi all the skin, put about a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, rub all over the bottom, cut the brains in slices, lay them in the pan, season'with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, place over a moderate fire, and when set turn them over, add about a gill of melted butter, and a little milk, if too thick, season a little more if required, shake the saute-pan round, moving the brains from the bottom, but not breaking them, and pour upon a dish,°skin and trim the tongue, cut it in halves lengthwise, glaze and serve dressed upon the brains. Sheep and lamb’s tongues and brains are dressed in precisely the same manner as the calf’s. No. 162. Veal Cutlets, the English Method. Procure a piece of fillet of veal weighing about four pounds, from which (to the best advantage) cut eight or ten pieces of the shape and size of fillets of fowl, season lightly with a little pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs, well beaten, upon a plate, into which dip the cutlets, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, beat lightly; then cut four oi five slices of streaked bacon, which fry in a saut£ or frying-pan ; when done take out and lay in the cutlets, which fry of a nice light brown colour, dress the bacon and cutlets alternately upon your dish, pour as much fat as possible out ot the pan, into which pour a quarter of a pint of water, and the same of melted butter; boil until becoming rather thickish, when add a tablespoonful ot Harvey sauce, one of catsup, a little colouring (No. 146), and a little pepper and salt, boil another second, pass through a sieve over the cutlets, and serve. eal cutlets cut and fried as above may also be served upon some very light mashed potatoes, omitting the sauce.