4 “ Stafford House, Yendredi. “ La Duchesse de Sutherland prdsente ses compliments k M. Soyer, et accepte avec plaisir ladedicace de la gravure* d’apresle tableau peint par feue Madame Soyer. “ Elle a appris avec bien du regret la perte immense qu’il a faite.” MEMORIAL TO THE LATE MADAME SOYER, THE CELEBRATED ARTIST. “ The inauguration of a splendid monument, erected to the memory of Madame Soyer, whose name is so intimately connected with the genius of art, took place on Sunday, before a numerous and distinguished party, at Kensal Green Cemetery. The design, which is quite new, is by M. Soyer, her hus- band, Lnd reflects the greatest credit upon that gentleman, who is so well known from his position at the Reform Club. It consists of a pedestal, about twelve feet in height, surmounted by a colossal figure of Faith, with her right hand pointing towards heaven, and the left supporting a golden cross. At her feet, lightly floating upon clouds, are two cherubims, the one holding a crown over the head, and the other presenting a palm to a beautiful medal- lion of the deceased; the latter executed in white marble, and surrounded by the emblem of eteruity. A palette and brushes, embellished with a wreath of unfading laurels, is gracefully placed beneath the medallion. M. Puyen- broack, of Brussels, one of the principal sculptors to his Majesty the King of the Belgians, has added to his fame by this new example of his talent. Although the figures of the monument are larger than life, so fight and elegant is their construction, that the observer might almost fancy they were leaving this terrestrial sphere, while the cherubims, poised upon the ascending clouds, convey such an idea of buoyancy, that one is led to believe that the heavy and solid stone (like the pure and eternal spirit of her who sleeps below) had taken its departure from earth, and was following that shade whose memory it was erected to perpetuate. We are informed that the palette and brushes, with the laurel and her initials, were sketched by the lamented artist the morning previous to her death, she being then in perfect health ; while the medallion is from her portrait by M. Simonau, her father-in-law, and only master. “ Amongst the parties present at the inauguration we perceived the fair Cerito, bestowing upon the shrine of her sister artist a wreath funcraire, made from a crown placed upon her head in La Scala, at Milan, before several thousands of her country people. Such feeling impressed all with the highest respect for that fairy child of Terpsichore, and deserves a distin- guished place in the history of art. The wreath, together with the palette of the artist, will be placed in a glass case, and fixed at the back ot the pedestal. The inscription upon the pedestal will be simply the words ‘ To Her,’ without any addition whatever.”—Morning Post, 1844. EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS. “ L’Angleterre sera vengee par une femme de l’dchec dont Messieurs Foggo sont tombes les victimes. Madame Soyer de Londres nous a envoye deux morceaux exquis; si nous pouvions disposer d’une couronue au plus dignc, c’est assurement h elle que nous rendrions cet hommage; tie pouvaut pas presenter de lauriers, donnons lui la premiere place dans nos colonnes: pour la correction du dessin, la vigueur, le modble et la purete du colons, ce * “ La C6rcs Anglaisc.”