KITCHEN AT HOME. 646 nine pounds in weight; about half an hour before it is done add a dozen turnips, peeled and cut into quarters, when done take it up, dress upon a dish with the turnips around, place a frill upon the knuckle, pour nearly half a pint of the liquor it was boiled in over, and serve with caper sauce (No. 67) in a boat. Observe, in boiling any description of meat, fast boiling would not cook it any quicker, but cause it to eat very hard and bad. At home I have tried to cook them by placing them in the water whilst boiling, and when again beginning to boil drawing it to the corner of the fire; it certainly saves a little time, but does not eat so tender as when put into cold water. I generally there mash turnips and serve them separately (I do not like them plain and watery, although I consider they must be much more wholesome). Place the turnips when boiled into a stewpan, add half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, two ounces of butter with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, and four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, mix all well together over the fire with a wooden spoon. For caper sauce I mix a tablespoonful of flour with an ounce of butter and put it in a smallish stewpan, add half a pint of the liquor the mutton was boiled in. stir over the fire until upon the point of boiling, when add a quarter of a table- spoonful of salt, quarter that quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a good spoonful of drained pickled capers ; then add another ounce of butter, shake round over the fire, and when melted it is finished. I sometimes also add a spoonful of liaison, it gives it a rich colour. No. 17. Shoulder of Mutton {boiled). Choose a very tender one, weighing about seven pounds, cut off the knuckle, and boil it as above; one hour and a half would be sufficient. Welsh Mutton.—No. 18. Saddle-back of Welsh Mutton. Trim and truss it as South Down mutton, it will take one hour less roasting; you may butter twice over. No. 19. Haunch. If weighing twelve pounds roast it an hour and a half as directed (in proportion) for the haunch of mutton, but if deficient of fat rub it over with butter three or four times instead of once. No. 20. Saddle. If weighing eight pounds roast it an hour and a quarter. No. 21. Leg. If weighing five pounds roast it an hour. No. 22. Loin. If weighing four pounds roast three quarters of an hour. No. 23. Neck. If weighing three pounds roast it half an hour. No. 24. Shoulder. If weighing four pounds roast it three quarters of an hour. Loin and neck about the same time. No. 25. Lamb is divided into but three principal joints, being the fore- quarter, haunch, and saddle, two joints may be made of each by separating : the shoulder from the ribs, the leg from the loin, or dividing the saddle, but they are usually roasted together. To trim the fore-quarter saw off the chine-bone, and break the rib-bones down the centre, pass two iron skewers from the breast to the back, and a lark-spit through lengthwise, fix it upon a larger spit, cover a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and roast an hour and a quarter before a good fire, rubbing butter over it, it would be a light gold colour; should the shoulder have been taken off it will only require three quarters of an hour to roast, serve in a dish with a little gravy under, and mint sauce in a boat. The haunch must be trimmed by cutting off the shank-bone, place it upon a small spit by running the spit in at the extremity of the loin, passing over