15 snys " At the request of several persons of distinction who have visited the Reform Club, particularly ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power, for, indeed, it must have been the fair sex who have had the majority in this domestic argument to gain this gastronomical election. Why do you not write and publish a cookery- book ? was a question continually put to me. For a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to pervade my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library in the midst of a splendid baronial hull, by chance I met with one of Milton’s allegorical works, the profound ideas of Locke, and several chefs d’xuvre of one of the noblest champions of literature, Shakspeare ; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work. Such an immense success of pnbli»tion caused me to say, « Ob, you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of fame upon your regretted ashes !’ Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great disappointment, what did I see,-a receipt for Oxtail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me by this succulent volume, made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses.” That section of the work entitled “ Soyer’s new mode ol carving (worthy of the deepest attention; is thus ushered in You are all aware, honorable readers, of the continual tribulation in carving at table, for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity. Very' few persons are perfect in this art, which requires not only grace, but a great deal of skill Others become very nervous ; many complain of the knife which has not the least objection l: 0ln ,faul °l e se tfJeZ sayVtbls capon, pheasant, or poulard is not young, and “ "ot of tbe fbest 9uallty-. You may sometimes be right, but it certainly often happens that the greatest gourmand'is the worst carver, and complains sadly during (hat very long process saying to himself “I am last to be served, my dinner will be cold ’* Soyer s motto is, “cleanliness is the soul of the kitchen the cuisine of the Reform Club Th this healthful axiom. That portion of the work before us devoteS to The Kitchen at Home deserves the attentive perusal of every housewife who wishes to enjoy comfort herself and be the cause of it toothers; the author is almost as earnest “nndn®n/.hus’ustlc m his directions for the production of a good rump-steak pudding for thl stomach of common life as he is for that of the most aristocratic and indulged The work is, in short, one suited to the palace of the prince, and the cottage of the peaS The two thousand practical receipts it contains, adapted to the incomes of all parties, have bepn eaten by a committee of taste,5 who have pronounced a verdict in their favour It i* aunro pnately dedicated to his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and the volume is tendered W ^ lt8,numerous well-executed illustrations. The frontispiece is a fine po^ Wr f rht Uth0r’t*f e/J,pamtmg by the once-accomplished and now lamented Madame* 14 18 tm°8t truthful P°rtralt; each feature indicates the man—the play of the eloouent %»/ ’ °DCe P° °f WU aDd thS mini8ter of inteilse Palatic sensibility. Zele THE GLOBE. t T]1® '™Pression grows on us that the man of his age is neither Sir RnWt p„Qi Lord John Russell, nor even Ibrahim Pacha, but Alexis Soyer P°e1’ nor Hazlitt has said that, if literary men directed the world, they would leave noth!™ standing but printing presses. We know that parliamentary leaders imagine nZl notblnS tactics, and talk the prinium mobile of mankind. Eastern despots thinkfit isamentary but Alexis Soyer knows it is the saucepan. When Napofeon fi st st 11 h , f?W°/d5 of the “ Legion of Honour,” Moreau ridiculed it by proposing to confer^ on his cook. But we beg to propose seme “ Soyer testimonial,” without nnv i u- wn.ne\" Have we not had a “Hudson testimonial ?”—are we not threatened with^ at u I Jones testimonial ?’ •—to recompense, amongst other things, the laving thaT ,» ,Lambert mother earth, called the Royal Exchange. What then shall be done TJ load up°n reared that light fabric of a Pyramid a l’Ibrahim Pacha, on which twentv rm.t W,b° less looked down last Friday evening, us they had very good reason to do —sin .ur..es l oubt' have seen Pyramids any day these two or three thousand years but it u’n t ° tb^y miSbt could see a Pyramid with “an elegant cream d I’ananaJ on the to of , f0’ d“y tbey r uthatATgnin “a highly-finished portrait of the illustrious stranger in -V 0,1 tbf toP futher, Mehemet Ali, carefully drawn on a round shape of satin carton ” ’ llm 1 acba,!i) 1 he veracious chronicler to whom we are now indebted for ,nm * ,, , world would not willingly let die, of that dinner at the iLf0rm Clnl^lwi?U!arl’ wbicb tbe some of our Paris contemporaries from their propriety, proceeds as follm '"^ h“S frlgbted The appearance of this ‘ Creme d’Egypte a Plbmhim i ^ : Royal Highness’s attention, who at once ^perceived^the' honour* conferred '^pon wf £ '18