37 Colleo-e have introduced a curious criterion. You wih probably think it more important to know the descrip- tion of cases, and the degree of knowledge and skill dis- played in treating them. The name of Scarpa must be familiar to the framers of this rule: he has rendered some * service to our science, although he never enjoyed the grand advantage of attending winter lectures on ana- tomy and surgery, by a London hospital Surgeon. The admirable works which he has published on anatomy and surgery, have made him known wherever those sciences are cultivated, and will carry his name down to posterity with every accompaniment of respect and honour. In his combined capacity of anatomist and surgeon he has not been surpassed; and he certainly ranks higher than any living cultivator of those sciences. The hospital, which has enabled him to render these important services to our science, contains, I believe, about twenty beds. Richter, the cotemporary of Haller, in the University of Goettingen, celebrated throughout Europe for his judgment and practical skill, as well as for the clearness and good sense of his writings, had an hospital of fifteen beds.* The same institution, now * “ There are only fifteen beds in the public hospital of this place (Goettingen), and I do not wish for more. I have permission, and the opportunity to choose my patients, and of course I make choice of such cases as promise to be more particularly important and instructive. Indeed, I do not think that the experienced practitioner is formed by the number of patients. Experience is the result, not of seeing merely, but of reflecting. It is not eating alone, but digestion, that gives strength. A physician who tells us that he visits an hundred and fifty, and even a greater number of sick people daily, has, in my opinion, so little pretensions to the title of an experienced practitioner, that I would even deny he had any experience at all. Truly, nature is not so complaisant, that she will unveil herself at once to whoever will merely cast his eyes upon her.”—Richter's Med. and Surg. Obser- vations, translated from the German ; preface, p. xv.