13 school (what can that mean?) from the teachers in which the Court will afterwards receive certificates. Now, Gentlemen, to say nothing of the absurdity of supposing, as this regulation does, that anatomy and surgery may be taught by the physicians of an hospital, to pass over the ludicrous inconsistency of giving to physicians that right of lecturing on surgery which is denied to the great body of surgeons ; I declare that I think it would be difficult to combine more confusion and nonsense within an equal compass, than are to be found in this short enactment. But we have a more material objection to state, and it is to the catalogue of recognized schools ; Edinburgh, Glasgow , Aberdeen ! We know that anatomy, at least, cannot be advantageously studied at those places. We all well know, and no one can be more willing than I am, to acknowledge the great talents and acquirements of the teachers in those Universities, and to award them the just merit of having accomplished much with slender means ; but we know also that they are very insufficiently supplied with subjects, and that without (his indispensa- ble requisite, no talents in the teacher, no acquirements, no peculiar fitness on his part for the office of instruction, will avail the student of anatomy.* When we thus find * These observations were not made with the slightest feeling of disrespect towards the professors and teachers in the Scotch schools, nor with any disposition to undervalue the means of professional edu- cation afforded by those establishments. That they are incorrect, at least as far as relates to Glasgow', is clearly shewn by two writers, who seem to be well acquainted with that University, and whose statements are published in the Lancet, vol. 9, p. 839—841. They represent that there has been for many years, and is at present, a supply of sub- jects fully adequate to the demands of a most numerous anatomical class; and that these are procured at least as easily and cheaply as in London. Information from other quarters confirms this statement, and makes it clear that Glasgow can furnish every requisite for the