15 deemed less important by the Court of Examiners than the school he attended and the professors who taught him? Let us consider, gentlemen, the qualifications neces- incorrect, so far as Glasgow is concerned, and in learning that that University is not less fortunate in possessing the means of practical anatomical study than in the talents and reputation of its able ana- tomical teachers. I can assure your Correspondents that I do not yield to them in respect for the names of J. and A. Burns, of Jeffray, Patti- son, Mackenzie, and Monteath. Nothing could have been further from my thoughts than the design of elevating the London anatomical schools at the expense of their Northern rivals. The ability and usefulness of a teacher may be well estimated by the zeal and industry of his pupils. Extensive intercourse with professional students from all quarters has taught me, that in the valuable qualities I have just mentioned those from the Scotch schools cannot be surpassed, and in general are not equalled. I find them invariably assiduous, well informed, and anxious to improve every opportunity of gaining information.—Neither does the important fact escape my recollection, that the only school in which the science of anatomy, as distinguished from the trade of teaching it, has been suc- cessfully cultivated in London, was established and has been almost entirely upheld by Scotchmen. It is hardly necessary to particularise that founded by Wm. Hunter, and rendered doubly celebrated by his brother. The fame of this school, to which we owe Hewson, Cruik- shank, Baillie, and Wilson, is still worthily upheld by its present dis- tinguished head. I remain, Sir, Your obedient servant, 18, Whitehall-place, W. Lawrence. March 18, 1826. That the representation in the text is correct, so far as Edinburgh is concerned, is clearly proved by the strong and competent testimony of Mr. Lizars. In the prefaces to the second, fourth, and ninth num- bers of his anatomical plates, he laments the want of subjects in Edin- burgh; he comments indignantly on the public authorities, accusing