45 and of restoring or preserving health ; that is, of morbid anatomy, of theoretical and practical medicine, of thera- peutics, of materia medica and pharmacy? These are altogether omitted. Two other serious omissions may be noticed. It is sufficient simply to mention midwifery and the connected subject diseases of women and chil- dren. No branch of medical practice is more important; on none is it of more consequence to the public, that the qualifications of the practitioner should be ascertained by previous inquiry. Diseases of the eye form a part of surgery; and may, perhaps, be considered as included under the general term. But the structure of the organ is so peculiar and complicated, its affections are so nume- rous, their nature and treatment have been so much elu- cidated and improved of late years, the value of the sense is so great, and the practical consequences of ignorance and improper treatment are so destructive of human happiness, that a regard for the public welfare and for the character of the profession absolutely require that this branch of surgery should be expressly named, and its study enforced.* In short, the list sent forth * A few facts will be sufficient to support the correctness of the above representation. In the 2nd battalion of the 52nd regiment, con- sisting of somewhat more than 700 men, 636 cases of ophthalmia, in- cluding relapses, occurred from August, ISO5, when the disease com- menced, to the same month in 1806: of these, 50 were dismissed with loss of both eyes, and 40 with that of one.—Dr. Vetch, Account of the Ophthalmia, &c. 1807, p. 69. The Ophthalmia Depot, under the care of this gentleman, contained, in 1808, more than 900 cases.—Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, p. 184. From the station of Sicily alone, more than 130 cases of total blindness were sent home within a short period.—Ibid. p. 183. In 1810 there were 2317 soldiers blind from ophthalmia on the pension list, not including those who had lost only one eye.—Mr. Macgregor, in Transactions of a Society for pro- moting■ Medical and Surgical Knowledge, v. 3, p. 50. Between 20