7 In the first place, Gentlemen, this regulation is drawn up and expressed in a very confused and inaccurate man- ner: it is no less mean and contemptible in composition and language, than odious in its spirit and enactments. The Court of Examiners, not contented with a simple exercise of authority, have stated their motives. When power thus condescends to reason with us, it invites dis- cussion, which does not always end in making us satis- fied with its mandates. The reasons of the Court consist of one object, which they wish to accomplish, and an evil, which they seek to avert. The former is “ to promote sound chirurgical knowledge.” We are accustomed to contrast knowledge and ignorance; but this is the first time that I have heard of the two sorts of knowledge, sound and unsound. We say of timber that it is sound or unsound ; an apple or a pear may be sound or rotten : but, if a person knows a certain subject, if he has acquired a certain portion of knowledge, how can that be unsound When we meet with a difficult passage, we must look to the context. Pursuing this direction, we arrive at the literally, the very punctuation being* preserved. Since the third and fourth rules respecting candidates for the diploma are mere nonsense as they now stand, it may not be amiss to propose a conjectural emen- dation, which will at least make them intelligible. The word ff subse- quent” has probably been written by mistake for ce consecutive.” The clause printed in italics, having no grammatical or significant con- nection with the surrounding matter, must feave reached its present situation fortuitously: amputation is the only treatment that can be proposed for it. Some persons will probably doubt whether this document can have proceeded from a body of men at the head of the surgical profession. It is indeed, in matter and manner, much worthier of the name and era of the Corporation, than of the Royal College. Its genuineness has been carefully ascertained by express and direct inquiry in the proper quarter.