15 sary to constitute a good lecturer. He must be thoroughly acquainted with the subject he proposes to teach: in the case of anatomy, surgery, or any other department of medicine, he must not only have practical knowledge from personal application and experience, he must not only have studied the great book of nature, but he must understand the general principles, the theoretic or rea- soning part of the science, and he ought to know not only them not merely of failing in their duty to promote this essential branch of public instruction, but of influencing popular alarms and strengthen- ing public prejudice, so as to increase the existing difficulties and obstacles: he mentions the decline of the anatomical classes, and pro- phesies their complete extinction, unless some change should be speedily effected. He states, in conclusion, that “ subjects have now risen to the enormous sum of twenty guineas, a sum sufficient to enable a student to go to Paris, study his profession, and return home,—and have moreover become so scarce, that one lecturer on anatomy, who has been teaching for these four years past, has been obliged to resign; and that able and scientific lecturer. Dr. Barclay, who has now, from the natural course of years, resigned his duties as a teacher, has within these some years back been repeatedly heard to say, that he saw no alternative, except giving up teaching human, and confining himself to comparative anatomy.”—Part ix. p. 10. I believe that equal difficulties do not exist in Aberdeen, having been informed, within a few days, by a gentleman who was recently studying there, that seven subjects had been used for the public lec- tures during the session, and that some private dissection is also carried on, although the opportunities in the latter respect are by no means equal to those afforded by the private teachers in London, whom the College of Surgeons are seeking to destroy. It may be remarked here, as a strange contradiction between the regulations of two public bodies, wrhich must be supposed to have the same end in view, that the Hospital of Aberdeen, which is recognised by the London College, is not so favoured by the Lords of the Admi- ralty. They require an attendance of twelve months on an hospital in London, Dublin, Edinburgh, or Glasgow.