46 under the authority of the Court of Examiners, which ought therefore to be a safe guide for the student, does not contain some of the most important parts of surgical education. As a member of the Royal College of Sur- geons, and as an English Surgeon, I disclaim this nar- row scheme of study, as unworthy of the present state of science, injurious to the surgical profession, and calcu- lated to disgrace us in the estimation of foreigners. The College examinations are quite in harmony with the course of study; they are confined to descriptive anatomy, and embrace little more than the mere mecha- nical parts of surgery. Among the subjects, to which they do not extend, may be mentioned general anatomy, physiology, morbid anatomy, general pathology, thera- peutics, and materia medica, midwifery, and diseases of the eye.* * Their inadequacy is indeed so glaring, that and 30 cases of blindness, or loss of one eye, or of seriously impaired vision, occurred in a school in Yorkshire. The same affection broke out in a French slave ship, affecting the entire cargo and crew, with the exception of one man. This individual alone was capable, when the vessel arrived in the West Indies, of steering her into Guadaloupe. There is reason to suppose that a Spanish ship was lost at sea from the same cause. Had these facts, which appear in papers laid before Par- liament, and are copied from them in the Edinburgh Review, v. 36, ajrt. 2, been duly noticed by the Lords of the Admiralty, they would probably have been led, in their recent regulation (Appendix, No. VI.), to require actual study of diseases of the eye, instead of merely alluding to it incidentally, as a ground of preference. * A comparative view of the arrangements adopted in other quar- ters will place in a still stronger light the deficiencies imputed to the College regulations, respecting surgical education and examinations. Accounts are therefore subjoined in the Appendix, No. V.—XII. of the regulations issued by the Society of Apothecaries, by the Army Medical Board, and the Board of Admiralty; and of the system of education and examination at Edinburgh, Paris, Leipzig, Berlin, Vienna, and Balti- more ; and a tabular view of the whole is subjoined, for the sake of comparative reference, No. XIII.