14 certificates of attendance received from schools, where we know that the proper kind of instruction cannot be ac- quired by the student, may we not infer that the quality and amount of knowledge possessed by the candidate are prosecution of anatomical studies. The answer to these remarks, published in the same work, p. 870 and 871, is here reprinted, as it explains how the mistake originated. To the Editor of The Lancet. Sir,—I take the earliest opportunity of noticing two letters, under the signatures Veritas and J. T., in The Lancet of this day. My object, in the observations which have called forth the comments and corrections of these writers, was to expose the inconsistency of the College regulation in admitting certificates of anatomical studies from quarters in which the means of learning anatomy practically cannot be procured, and rejecting them when proceeding from private teachers in London, who can afford their pupils an ample supply of the necessary materials. I must observe, that my remarks included Edinburgh, as well as Glasgow and Aberdeen, although it is not so reported. I have often heard students mention the impossibility of procuring subjects for private dissection in Edinburgh, and the difficulty of getting what are necessary even for the illustration of lectures. I had supposed, and the two letters seem to admit, that these difficulties still exist. We know, however, that they have not prevented the successful cultivation of anatomical science. The fame so justly earned in this department by Monro, J. Thomson, J. and C. Bell, Barclay, Gordon, Wardrop, Knox, and others, shows that superior minds, instead of being discouraged by obstacles, are animated to more powerful exertion: they make oppor- tunities for themselves, if they do not find them. Respecting the capa- bilities of Aberdeen, as a school of anatomy, always understanding by that expression a place where anatomy is to be learned by dissection, I am in complete ignorance, and can only observe, that I have known no one who has dissected there. I am well aware that its hospital con- tains such a number and description of surgical cases, as to render it not only a sufficient, but very valuable school of surgery; not more valuable, however, than those of Leeds, Birmingham, Norwich, Exeter, &c. &c. I have great pleasure in finding that my representation was