CONTENTS. IX The Treatment of Cancer by Chloride of Bromium, or Landolfi’s Paste , . . . . .85 History of the plan of treatment, 85; Frederic William of Prussia and Landolfi, 86; nature, mode of application, and clinical effects of the plan of treatment, 87 ; alleged specific constitutional and local action of the chloride of bromium, 88; critical reflections on the temporary bene- ficial effects on the constitution by the extirpation of a cancer, whether by knife or caustics; the latter j3referable when capable of removing the whole of the local malady, 89; chloride of bromium a peculiarly useful caustic for its very deep action, yet capable of limitation, 93; lack of evidence of its curing cancer, viz., of its preventing re- currence, 94; injudicious tone adopted by many German writers on this subject, 95 ; experiments in the Allgemeine Krankenhaus of Yienna, and in the Salpetri5re of Paris— conclusion—bibliography, 95. Reflections upon the Sanitary and Moral Effects of Syphilisation and the control of Prostitution . 97 Claims of syphilisation on the attention of observers, 97; clinical observations upon it in the Turin Syphilicome, 98; proof of the doctrine afforded by the progressively decreasing susceptibility of the system to the action of the syphilitic virus, with its repeated inoculation, 99; Sperino’s summary of cases proving, in his opinion, the curative and prophylactic power of syphilisation, 100; observations not sufficient to exclude all sources of fallacy, yet ample, with the results obtained, to warrant further inquiry, 101; intemperate attacks on Professor Sperino— Boeck’s opinion in support of him, 106; the immorality of syphilisation considered, 108; the necessity of exerting all legitimate means, not only for curing, but for prevent- ing syphilis, 109; how far is the control of prostitution efficient in promoting those ends ? incompatibility of the system with English habits and laws. 111; Dr. Plolland’s able defence of that system examined, 111-115; con- clusion, 115.