EXPLANATION OF PLATES. PLATE I.— (After Ludwig in Adversaria Medico-Practica, I. 134). The Heart of a young man who received a kick on his chest from a horse, fell, got up, put on his hat, walked several steps, and fell dead. The pericardium was intact. The Plate repre- sents the right cavities of the heart opened from the back. (Case 3 of Table at p. 22.) PLATE II.—Kepresentation of a Heart, in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, which belonged to a lad killed by falling into an area from the top of a house. In Eig, 1 the large rent in the left side of the septum is visible. Fig. 2 shows the small rounded aperture on the right septal aspect. (Case 12 of Table atp. 25). PLATE III.—Fig. 1. A wire apparatus padded inside, for broken leg. Fig. 2. Pirogotf’s Field Splint, suited to gunshot fractures. See p. 155 of this w^ork. Fig. 3. A simple swinging apparatus, after Mayor’s plan. PLATE IV.—Fig. 1 and 2 represent the process of calcification, in an early stage, in the testicles of a goat. At Fig. 1, t, the tubes are converted into hard wiry vessels. The testicle, represented at Fig. 2, is greatly wasted. In its inferior half is a hard earthy substance, of a straw colour, and granular structure. Fig. 3. The calcified testicle of a ram. Fig. 4. A small portion of the surface of the testicle viewed with an inch lens; at v, are seen the bendings of the calcified tubes. Fig. 5. Another portion of the surface, examined with the same glass as the above; the tubes are rendered indistinct by an intermediate calcareous deposit. Fig. 6. A transverse section of the testicle examined with the microscope by reflected light. The cut tubes d, magnified 100 diameters, are seen filled with a white calcareous deposit. They are of various shape, and their boundaries are darker in colour than the interior. At i is the intermediate substance, of a dirty yellow colour, studded with small holes. PLATE V.—Fig. 1. Calcified testicle of a horse, which was retained in the abdominal cavity, and arrested in development. Fig. 2. (a) A deposit of earthy matter in the epididymis. Sir Astley Cooper, from Avhom this figure is taken, ascribes the product to chronic inflammation; more probably it was due to cretefaction of tubercle.