151 The splint placed on the outer side of the limb is destined to act as the solid support of the soft parts while the bony lesion is being repaired; I have never observed the effects of Mr. Syme’s ; but as its apparent simplicity and suitableness are supported by bis great authority, I extract his instructions for applying it, from one of bis recently published clinical lectures {Lancet, 1855, vol. i, p. 174) : ‘‘In ordinary practice, the long splint is generally made not sufficiently broad. It ought to be equal in breadth to the diameter of the limb, or about four inches and a half for an adult; otherwise there is great difficulty in preventing eversion of the foot. The best means of fixing the limb to the splint is a sheet wrapped round the splint, till a part equal in breadth to the circumference of the thigh remains enrolled. The sheet is passed under the leg, and wrapped round it; after which its free margin is secured by strong pins to the part rolled round the splint, which serves also as a pad to the limb. It is also well to use a perineal band, and to produce extension so much as to act as an additional means of insuring the perfect rest of the limb : the foot being fixed to the lower end of the splint by a handkerchief passed round the ankle, just above the heel, and crossed over the dorsum of the foot, the ends being passed through the holes or notches in the splint, and tied upon its outer surface. A broad bandage carried round the chest and upper part of the splint completes the apparatus. The sheet is far simpler and more effectual than rollers applied from the foot to the groin. Two or three bandages, six yards in length, are required for that purpose; and though they look very neat when first applied, they soon require reapplication. The state of the limb can never be ascertained without either raising the thigh to take off the bandages, or cutting it up; and in the latter case the thigh must be raised in order to reapply the bandage, whereas, when the sheet is used, on taking out the pins, and throwing the sheet aside, the limb is exposed undisturbed for examination. This apparatus has also the great advantage, that