fcECTURE X. 117 arteries. The most frequent vessels divided in wounds of the throat are the branches of the external carotid—the external maxillary, the lingual, and thyroideal, and it will be necessary to secure these. When the main trunk, the carotid, is divided, it must be secured as recommended on the subject of wounds of arteries, and the simplest plan is that of Mr. Abernethy's, when there will be no danger of wounding the internal jugular vein, or the par vagum. The treatment is to bring the chin as much as possible to the chest, in order to secure the edges of the wound perfectly together, and the head should be retained in this position by bandages properly adapted: the wound should be brought into as narrow a compass as can be done, by sutures and adhesive plaster. Wounds of the second kind may include three inches, the upper part of the larynx, the cricoid, and thyroid cartilages; the wound seldom goes beyond the posterior part of the trachea, or injures the oesophagus—in this case the air escapes from the wound, but fluids may be swallowed without their passing through it. If the thyroid cartilage is divided to any great extent, a suture is to be passed through the pericondrium, bringing the edges into contact. It sometimes happens, that several cuts are made,, and the cartilages are divided in more places than one: heip attempts must still be made to unite them by the adhesive process, though in these cases the carti- la<yes have been known to exfoliate. It is better to use sutures in every description of wounds in the throat. When a wound happens between the thyroid cartilage and the os hyoides it is attended with great danger, and it was formerly deemed invari- ably fatal; but a case occurred to Mr. Astley Cooper, which proved that this was erroneous: the death of the patient is occasioned by the fluids and food taken into the mouth making their way into the larynx, on account of the separation of the epiglottis from the trachea—it would be advisable, to prevent this happening, to convey nourishment into the stomach by means of a tube introduced into the passage to the oesophagus. The third species of wound takes place in those parts be- tween the sternum and three inches up the trachea : this will include on the fore part, the trachea; on the back part, the oeso- u 3