LECTURE XXXI. S78 not run so high, but are moderate, the empl. lytharg. comp. •may be put on. If the inflammation goes on to the production of a fluid, leeches must be applied, and the liquor, acet. plumb, dil., or the liquor, amnion, acet. may be used as a wash, w ith the intention of discussing the tumour. A blister may be put on the part, and very great advantage is derived from the application of it. I f a glairy fluid is formed, and there is no suppuration, this last being indi- cated by a redness on the skin, the surgeon must not attempt on any account to open the abscess,asthe use of njercury will be quite sufficient for the removal of the swelling ; for if the sweUing was imprudently opened at this stage of the complaint, the bone will certainly exfoliate, and the case will be rendered extremely tedious; but if pus is formed, mercury will never cause the absorptiou of it, in which case it will be requisite to evacuate the contents by means of a small incision. BONES OF THE CRANIUM. These are occasionally affected with this complaint—the disease in these parts is the same, only attended with more danger. Very large collections of pus has been seen under the cranium, and also several fatal cases of the disease wli^n in these bones. In general it is the result of bad constitutions, or of the complaint being neglected. When the venereal disease is situated in the bones, it requires a much longer course of mercury than in other parts, and in general, as the vital prin- ciple of any part is less, the more mercury does it require to eradicate the disease from that part. There are other parts of the body that are occasionally af- fected with syphilis; but they are mostly easy of discovery: the testes are sometimes enlarged from it: here a mercurial course will recover them. Patients will now and then com- plain of pain extending down the thighs, legs, arms, &c.; when this is the case, it is truly venereal; but when they tell the surgeon the pain is seated in the joints, the disease is rheu- matism.