LECTURE XI. 125 in fact of any extraneous body that might have been intro- duced as pieces of iron, splinters of wood, &c. Tliis practice will be perfectly right when it can be easily felt, and there is no danger of wounding any vessels. If it has passed with great velocity, so as not to be near the wound, nor yet to be felt on the opposite side, supposing it to be in parts not es- sential to life, the best method is to introduce a flexible me- tallic bougie, which yielding easily to pressure, acquaints the surgeon with the extent of the wound, without at the same time incurring- any risk. Another instrument advised for this purpose, is the elastic gum bougie. The common silver probe is extremely improper. When, however, the ball is lodged in the cavity of the chest or abdomen, it is an unwise step to at- tempt any thing of this kind, as it will in all probability add to the danger. There are several reasons why it is frequently wrong to search after the ball; one is, that it sometimes be- comes encysted in coagulable lymph, and remains so for life, being enveloped by a substance which prevents its acting any ' longer as an extraneous body, except it be in the vicinity of a large nerve. Another reason is, that Nature frequently forms an outlet for the ball in the production of an abscess; and the best and principal one is, that from the tortuous and indirect line which the ball is liable to take, it is rendered almost im- possible to attempt any thing of the kind with a prospect of success. Several cases have been known where Nature has formed an opening for the passage of a ball at some distance from the patt it entered, two of which will be sufficient for the present purpose.—Case T. A boy who had been guilty of robljing his master, determined to put a period to his exist- ence, and for that purpose loaded a musket and fixed the muzzle opposite the scrobiculis cordis, which he supposed to be opposite the heart: the ball had entered at the scrobiculis cordis; his shirt caught fire, and he was a good deal burnt. Some opening medicine was directed him, but no blood came away by stool, which was much in his favour. On examining again four days after, a red line was discovered on the skin, ex- tending some way, and on carefully passing the finger along that part, the ball was found lodged above two inches from the