LECTURE IV. 55 ■» ■ ■ . ■ ' OF ULCEKATTON. Ulceration is the absorption of any natural formed parts or solids of the body, but differing from simple absorption in this, that the latter takes up minute substances in contact with the vessels. Ulceration is commonly accompanied by matter, but this is nonessential to it, as it. often occurs without. It is the resiilt.of two circumstances :— . ' Inflamnuition, with pressure : but inflammatory action is not of itself the immediate cause of it, but only when attended with pressure. In aneurism of the aorta where no matter is formed, the parts in contact with the aneurismal sac, such as parts of the ribs, and the sternum, will become absorbed merely by the mechanical pressure of the sac, producing increased action in the absorbent vessels of those parts; in fungous tumours of the dura mater, the bone will be absorbed without any collection of matter. Ulceration has a tendency to the surface more generally than to the internal parts of the body, as is seen in cases of dis- eased thigh-bones; or it may be better illustrated in those cases of matter forming behind the sternum, close to the pleura, %vhere, instead of ulcerating that membrane, it absorbs the sternum. A case of this kind occurred in Guy's Hospital, during my attendance. In the formation of matter also in the abdonjinal muscles, instead of forcing its way into the viscera, it most commonly finds an outlet on the surface of the body. The same thing is seen happening also with respect to bones, where matter makes its way to that part of the bone most ex- posed; these examples shew the admirable wisdom of the Divine Architect, for, was it otherwise, the consequences \yould be generally prejudicial; and \vhich is accounted for by Hun- ter thus: although a tumour makes equal pressure in every direction around, it will make its way externally, because in- terstitial absorption only happens in that direction. Slight pressure from without. Hunter remarks, will even produce a thickening of parts, and hence he infers, there even appears to,be a corresponding backwardness to admit disease: both