LECTURE XXXI. 360 The pursuance of this mode of treatment is only recom- mended in those cases where the symptoms do not run very high. In some, the pain and inflammation will be very great, and phymosis will be introduced. There will be a general and deep redness in the parts, with great discharge from under the pre- puce : when these are the existing symptoms, a continuance of the use of mercury will only exasperate them: it should be, immediately they are observed, left off, and thus, abstaining from the exhibition of the medicine, is the great secret of those who practise this branch of the profession with success. It will be right to abandon the use of mercury for some space of time, until the inflammatory symptoms are entirely, or, in a very great degree, subsided in the part, more particularly if there is any appearance of sloughing. A wash should be used, com- posed thus, R liquor, plumb, acet. 3 ss ; tinct. opii 3 iij ; aqua fontana; | iv. M.; or the black wash with opium. Pieces of lint, or linen, wetted with either, are to be kept constantly applied to the part. A brisk purgative of calomel and rhubarb may be given, but a continuance of purging must not be followed, as it will weaken the patient and increase the tendency to sloughmg. If the inflammation should not subside, a leech or two would be advisable. The black wash with opium may be injected under the prepuce, in order to clear away the discharge, which is apt to collect there and cause irritation. Observe. A chancre, in the verj/ earliest stage, I thmk, might be successfully treated with caustic, and render mercury altogether unnecessary; but I must remark, it is seldom, if ever, patients apply soon enough to render this practice justitiable. Many practitioners salivate their patients with mercurial oint- ment, and never administer this medicine internally, but from the concealment requisite in these cases, it could not be adopted without discovery, from the perceptible marks on the Imen: the other plan is by far the cleanliest, and I would recommend its adoption in private practice. In the hospitals, friction with ointment is universally pursued.