187 LECTUEE XV. very successful; the judgment and boldness which prompted him to the trial, and the ease and simplicity with which he secured the vessel, were so many proofs of his discernment and anatomical knowledge, our neighbours were incredulous, and they doubted and hesitated, disbelieving what has since been §o repeatedly demonstrated practicable; in the first case, one liga- ture was used, and no division made: in the two succeeding, two ligatures were eniployed, and tbe artery divided. Mr, Freer, of Birmingham, and Mr. Tpmlinson, used but one ligaturiz, and no division, and both were successful. Mr. Ast- iey Copper has sij}pe repeatedly and successfully operated on this vessel, in some cases even where the aneurismal sac was in a sloughy state, apd having an eschar formed on it, which I perfectly recollect witnessing, where, if it had not been speedily adopted, the patients would inevitably have soon died. Some few unsuccessful instances have occurred, and one 1 remember, which happened to Mr. Cooper, where a ligature was applied below Poupart's ligament, between it and the arteria profunda: in fourteen days after the man died of heeinorrhage, from which it would appear, that if a ligature is made near a considerable branch, as was the case in this iftapce, it prevents adhesion taking place, in consequerjce of the flovY of blood washing away the adhesive matter. THE MODE OF OPERATING. Mr. Abernethy operates thus:—an incision, three inches in length, is to be made through the integuments of the abdomen, commencing a little above Poupart's ligament, and extending it upwards; it is to be rather exceeding half an inch to the outer side of the abdominal ring, to avoid, by so doing, the epigastric artery; thus the fascia, or aponeurosis of the external oblique is exposed—this is to be divided in a similar direction— hence comes into view the internal oblique—the finger is now to be introduced below the inferior margin of it and the tras- versalis, which are to be divided with a crooked bistoury, to the extent of an inch and a half: two fingers are to be introduced beneath the peritoneum; which are carried upwards by the side