394 LECTURE XXXII. to eight yards in length, and from four to six inches in breadth ought to be made use of. It should be made of flannel cut from selvage to selvage. It ought to be applied as tight as possible, and after two or three turns has been made, a piece of stiflf paste-board should be placed directly upon the fractured ends, and this will assist greatly in preventing the action of the intercostal muscles, which will be the great object to be attain- ed. A fracture of the ribs may be discovered by placing the hand on the painful part, and when a deep inspiration is made, a sensation of crepitus will be plainly conveyed to the fingers. l-OWER JAW. This bone is not unfrequently fractured near the angle or symphysis by blows received on the opposite side to that on which the fracture is caused. A sling of wash leather must be had recourse to, wifii a hole in the centre to admit the chin; tvvo tapes attached to the upper part of this must pass over the forehead, and be made to fasten at the vertex, in order to keep the jaw from falling down ; and two tapes are to be carried along thfe course of the jaw to the occiput, to prevent the bone from falling forward. During the progress of the cure, the patient should be supported almost entirely upon liquid, or rather thin food. There has been an instrument invented for a fracture of this bone, when near the symphysis, which answers very well; but it requires a different spring if the fracture is at the back part of the jaw; a patient can eat as usual, after wearing it three weeks. PATELLA. The patella, from its situation, is very much exposed to acci^- dents, and hence it is often seen fractured : it is very rarely the fracture^ are longitudinal, being mostly transverse. The frac- ture lengthways has been known to occur in a few instances.— When it is broken in the latter direction, it will unite again through the niedium of callus, as the ends of tiie bone can be brought sufRcionti} near for the vessels- of liie bone to shoot into the effused fluid, ana deposit an cai iby niuLler.