400 LECTUKE XXXII. danger can ensue, and a chance is afforded the patient of having his limb saved, although T must admit the chance is a very hopeless one. If the radjaal or ulnar artery was injured, I would not advise amputation on any account. Compound fracture occasionally extending into joints:— when this happens into that of the ankle, the plan of treatment must be principally guided by a consideration of the age and constitution of the patient. These fractures will very fre- quently do well without removing the limb ; but from the ex- perience I have had, and from what 1 have been taught, I think that it might be laid down as a general rule to amputate almost immediately if the patient is advanced in life: also if the per- son is at the meridian of life, yet if he is of an irritable habit of body, or if his constitution has been injured by intemperance of any kind, the limb ought to be taken off. In these cases there has not one to my knowledge recovered without amputation, and several have fell victims to the accident, even though the limb has been removed. In young subjects amputation is scarcely ever required, as they will mostly do well. The next circumstance which I shall advert to, as consti- tuting an unfavourable symptom, is the appearance of a higk degree of inflammation on the limb three or four days after the accident has occurred. When the middle of the leg is the situation of the fracture, the inflammation will sometimes ex- tend down to the foot, and upwards as high as the knee. If an effusion accompanies this appearance as high up as the groin, it generally portends death, and evinces the existence of a high degree of constitutional debility, in which it will be re- quisite to administer bark, wine, and a generous diet. Leeches will be found serviceable applied around the wound, by un- loading the vessels, and enabling them to regain their original tone: after these, fomentations and poultices are to be ap- plied, the latter of stale beer grounds, wine lees, &c. Lotions also will be useful of the liquor, ammon. acet. and spir. vin. rect. applied to the inflamed limb, whilst the poultice is on the wound. At the same time opium must be given freely, to allay the constitutional irritability, and a gentle diaphoresis