110 LECTURE IX. must be adopted. Bleeding, purging, &c. must be had re- course to, in order to obviate any undue degree of inflarnma tion which wiil come on. In the second case, where some viscus, as the stomach, is wounded, there are, immediately after, faintings, vomiting of blood, and the contents of this organ; as well also as some of it being discharged from the wound, paleness, cold sweats, pulse scarcely perceptible, &c. In some few cases, where the wounds have been small, the patients have recovered: here nothing must be taken by the mouth for a week; let the patient have strong nutritive glysters administered to support him, with opium; at the end of the week he may take a little jelly; in ten days a little broth, &c.; and so on at the discre- tion of the practitioner. It will be necessary to bleed largely, and an attempt must be made to effect union by the adhesive inflammation. If a surgeon is called to a wound in the intestines, and the gut does not protrude, nothing local can be done; we are not warranted to enlarge the opening: opium must be adminis- tered and large bleedings had recourse to; and although the pulse will be so feeble and weak, yet the antiphlogistic regimen must be strictly adhered to :—but should the intestine protrude, the nature of the injury will be very obvious ; and if the wound is only a very small one it may be returned, as in all probability it will unite by the adhesive process; but if not large, yet sufficient to let the fceces escape, it may be closed by the appli- cation of a ligature around the orifice, cutting the ends of the thread close off. In an operation for strangulated hernia, per- formed at Guy's Hospital, Mr. Astley Cooper found the intes- tine wounded, and the small opening he included in a ligature, and the man did very well. Mr. Travers says, that a ligature applied round a portion of intestine acts in a similar manner to one applied on an artery; the inner coats become divided, the external (the peritoneal) remains entire: from the interior co- agulable lymph becomes deposited, and an union effected. Query. Would not such practice reproduce symptoms of stran- gulation? And would it not be preferable to unite the wound by ligature in the common way.