LECTURE XXVHl. 320 The cause, both of gonorrhoea and syphilis, were considered the same, that is, to arise from the same poison; though the effects were different from the mode of action: the reason of which was said to be, that the economy of the parts vary, one being a secreting surface, as the urethra, the other not. It requires only one mode of action to produce the effect on this canal: when any irritating matter is thrown upon a secreting surface, nature, to overcome the stimulus, increases the action of the part, from whence gonorrhoea is formed: when the same application happens to a cuticular, or non-secreting part, nature, not being here possessed of the same advantage as in the former, absorbs that part sp stimulated, by which the other disease, ?i chancre, is formed. The secretion in gonorrhoea is not the natural increased, but one substituted, partaking of the poisonous nature of the stimulant. Thus, any secreting sur- face, as the eye-lids, will have the natural secretion altered and changed, although the part most readily disposed to receive in- fection is the urethra. The poison of syphilis is more readily absorbed from some parts than from others, as from chancre, sooner than from an incised wound; for the incised wound must become of the same nature as the virus before matter is alssorbed: this is seen in the inoculation for the small-pox, where the variolous mat- ter is not at first absorbed, but remains stimulating till it has produced an ulcer of the same specific nature with itself before absorption takes place. What difference exists between the matter of gonorrhcea and chancre ? This question has been frequently the subject of dispute, and a pretty subject it yet is for a young surgeon to make his debut in the literary world. Mr. Hunter has, in himself, produced a chancre by matter from a gonorrhoea, and he says, from num- berless other experiments, that he is led to conclude there is no difference: as he found, undisputably, that the matter from gonorrhoea and chancre were capable of producing the pox. When a secreting surface has set up the inflammatory action, the secretion is always increased, and is at last so much altered as to becopae exactly similar to that by which it was produced: