95 LECTURE Yin. body approaches to this latter state, the greater certainly would be the risk of an injury. The second species of this description of wounds, are those which penetrate the fascia of any part of the body, dangerous symptoms will here take place, frequently from the matter effused being confined by a tense covering, and unable to make its way out. Case.—A botanist, in getting over a gate, ran a nail into his thigh, penetrating the fascia; the inflammation was great, a day «r two after the accident, and the constitutional symptoms were also considerable; there was a swelling around the wound, fomentations and poultices were used, without any benefit, for some time; it then became necessary to make an incision down to the fascia, which was laid open, and which gave dis- charge to a large quantity of matter, when immediately the very urgent symptoms, before existing, were relieved. This is to be the mode of treatment in every case of this kind, and the incision must be made free, and to penetrate the fascia completely, otherwise the diseased symptoms will not abate. Mr. Jones applied to the author under the following circum- stances:—His son, a lad 12 years old, had, in going into the cellar with his shoes off, trod on a nail or spike, which had entered in the hollow of his foot; he was in great pain, very much disturbed, and had no rest since the accident; the wound was immediately dilated, fomented, and poulticed. Opium was administered with saline medicines, to procure ease; very litde relief was obtained during the two succeeding days: when the leg was again examined, it then became evident there was a collection of matter confined under the theca, which the first dilatation of the wound had not reached; a free and liberal opening was made now, by me, through it, by which a large collection of matter was evacuated ; the boy was much reduced during his short confinement. He now became easy, slept Avell, and by the use of tonics and generous diet, soon reco- vered. Mr. Price's servant met with a similar injury in the palm of the hand, and as he was not seen by me, in the first instance, fomentations and poultices were used; ultimate relief, however,