69 LECTURE V. this is to be so done as to approximate the sides of the ulcer as near as possible : soft compresses are to be then laid on, and afterwards a roller applied. The excess of inflammation is to be moderated by keeping the bandages moist with spring water; or a very diluted solution of the acetate of lead, if considerable :— water generally will be found sufficient; and then there is no necessity to confine the patient; he may use moderate exercise. It may be proper in some cases to apply poultices at the commencement, till the granulations arise to some heighth; then stimulating them with a solution of lunar caustic, or the nitrous acid diluted, giving due support to the circulation, by means of a roller applied "to the same extent as before alluded to; but the preceding plan is always preferable, and will be found more universally successful. An indolent ulcer is sometimes attended with a varicose state of the vena saphena, and this is found more troublesome to heal than the preceding, and is more likely to recur afterwards. Compression, by means of a common roller, is the most approved mode of treating this state, extending from the foot to the knee, and an horizontal posture. Mr. Home states cases where this has failed; and has practised an operation, that of securing the vein as it passes over the knee joint; he does not divide, but merely tye the vessel: but there are few advocates, if any, at this moment for this mode, on account of the very serious effects that have been known to result from its adoption. 6th. When a sore is sloughy, and has a black aspect, it is another impediment to the healing process. The treatment in this case is simple; use a strong solution of nitrous acid, from 50 to 60 drops to aquae ibij. Poultices of stale beer, or wine lees, or what is known g,s crop of beer, which is the remains in the cask after the clear beer has been drawn off, mixed with oatmeal, will be very proper : and in some cases, a table spoonful of yeast added will be an improvement to restore it to a healthy surface. 7th. In consequence of sinuses: the mode of treatment, when they are deeply seated is, to inject the hydr- muriat. (corrosive subhmate) in the proportion of 2 grs. to gj, of aquas : it should be used thus strong to excite inflammation, and produce adhe- G 2