424 LECTURE XXXIV. only inconvenient from its bulk ; but when the ulcerative pro- cess commences these tumours become painful. The size of them is various ; they will acquire, if allowed to grow unmo- lested, an enormous magnitude. One, weighing fourteen pounds ten ounces, has been removed from the breast: another, fifteen pounds, from the back ; but, the largest ever extirpated, was from the back, weighing twenty-eight pounds. These excessively large swellings are mostly situated upon the integuments of the back. Their growth may be retarded by pressure, the efiicacy of which is finely illustrated in the slow advance in size of these tumours, when seated, or originating under the fascia. A roller, if judiciously applied, will prevent their gaining any great size for years : if, however, on account of their bulk they become inconvenient to the patient, it is much better to remove them. When they are found on the back, on the shoulders, on the nates, or thighs, the operation will be attended with little haemorrhage, as the vessels supplying them are small. If the swelling is very large, it will be advisable to remove a portion of skin, by making an oval incision, carrying it through the cover- ins:, and down to the cellular membrane : a hook must be intro- duced into the coats of the cyst, and it must be drawn out as much as possible, at the time dissecting around it. If the swelling is not very large, securing the vessels may be delayed vmtil the tumour is entirely removed ; but if it has attained a large size, it will be found better to tye the arteries, as they are divided in dissection. It will generally be found that a pa- tient will suffer very little constitutional irritation after the re- moval of a swelling of immense size of this kind, it being situated in the cellular membrane, and being a growth of the adipose cells. A second kind of tumour is the Encysted, which has been not unfrequently termed. Atheroma or Melviris, from its con- taining a substance resembling curd or honey. It is formed by the dilatation of a single cell of the cellular membrane, which has its communication with the other cells obstructed; and, as the fluid secreted into it, cannot pass into these, it gradually en- larges in size. There is very little danger attendant upon an operation in this species of tumour. When uninflamed, it