430 " LECTURE XXXIV. the fonn of a small wart, and may be safely removed without the smallest chance of danger. The third species, is of a warty kind, and frequently will become cancerous. They mostly arise from long continued irritation on the surface of the body, or from wearing a truss. They will remain for many years without ulcerating; therefore it is wrong to apply caustic to them, as they, by so doing, are apt to degenerate into are frequently extremely vas- cular ; and if an operation is necessary, the skin and cellular substance surrounding them, should be deeply cut out along with them. ■ OSSIFIC TUMOURS. These maybe subdivided into two kinds; the J?r^?, consist of a deposition of earthy matter between the periosteum and the substance of the bone. The mode of their production is in consequence of inflammation being set up in the bone and periosteum by some cause or other, when a cartilaginous sub- stance is deposited between the membrane and the bone, which becomes ossified by means of the vessels going to the bone extending into it: from time to time fresh depositions take place, which also become converted into bony matter; the periosteum still serving as a covering to it. This will go to a great extent sometimes, and the tumour will attain a large size ; but they are a long time arriving at any magnitude. If they are external, they may be removed by a saw. In one. case which happened to a surgeon, he bored holes into the swelling, with the idea of promoting absorption, which took place soon afterwards. The second kind of exostosis is arising from the internal part of the bone, and originates in consequence of inflammation of the medullary membrane, producing a callus, which is thrown out: this, by its pressure on the original bone, induces an ab- sorption of it, gradually extending in every direction, and will completely destroy the whole circumference of it. The dis- ease does not stop when arrived at this point, but fresh depo- sits of earthy matter following each other, the tumour will sometimes increase to an enormous size. As to any remedies