429 LECTURE XXXIV. sons, and was similar to a sponge in appearance, the cells con- taininsc srunious blood. The origin of this disease appears to be in the fascia, or aponeurosis in the first instance, afterwards other parts partake of the affection. Mr. Burns of Glasgow, has given a good description of this disease ; he terms it spongoid inflammation. Respecting the capability of the disease being extended by ab- sorption, some are disposed to think it is, as one case in particu- lar occurred where the disease formed originally in the leg; being extirpated, it reappeared in the thigh, in the groin, and on the patient's death, tumours answering the description of this were found in several parts of the lungs; these were attributed to absorption ; also it is observed, almost universally, that the disease reappears after being apparently extirpated, unless the limb is amputated It is almost unnecessary to mention, that if the disease has advanced to any extent, amputation is the only resource, and it ought to be done some distance above the diseased part. I must beg leave to advise the perusal of cases detailed by Mr. Hey upon this subject. From discussions I have had on the subject with several practitioners of eminence, I have reason to think the lui^ar caustic has removed the disease in the incipient state. [ have used it successfully in one case of a tumour on the hand, which assumed, extenially, the ap- pearance of this disease in the very early stage; and I have extirpated another tumour that presented a very similar cha- racter. ON CUTANEOUS TUMOURS. These are sometimes met growing from the skin alone, being an elongation of it; they are of three kinds. TheJirst, consists merely of the growth of the skin hanging in folds without any pendulous tumour. The cellular membrane un- derneath, in this species of cutaneous tumour remains unaf- fected by the disease. The second species is that where the cellular membrane grows along with the skin, and they form pendulous swellings, having small necks ; they commence in 1