346 LECTURE XXX.' l^mpli into the cells of the corpus spongiosum, by which they are glued together, so as not to allow of distension by the blood, whilst that side of the penis unaffected is filled with it; this causes the pain which the patient experiences. Leeches to the penis, fomentations, &c. will generally relieve; but in order to get temporary ease, a bottle of cold water held between the thighs, bathing the partS with cold water, or the saturnine lotion, •will be useful. The medicines to be administered internally are calomel with opium, or cicuta, in full doses. Opium is the one principally to be depended on; but as it is extremely apt to cause costiveness, an alterative combined will not be amiss. For the hardness which remains, after the inflammatory and most urgent symptoms are relieved, the best application will be the ung. hydrarg. c. camph. There is, sometimes, in gonorrhoea, an inflammation of the lacunce, so as to induce the formation of small tumours about the size of peas, on the under side of the urethra and corpus spongiosum; one of them opposite the fraenum often suppu- rates, and the urine will take its course occasionally through the opening, by which the matter has made its exit externally. Ab- scesses have thus formed behind the scrotum, and in one of these cases the patient died, whose habit of body was exces- sively irritable. In general, as soon as the existence of matter can be known, they should be opened with the point of a lan- cet, and if a sinus forms, order to destroy it, and afford an opportunity of healing, a piece of the lunar caustic, made very pointed, should be occasionally introduced into it, taking care to avoid injuring the urethra. Not unfrequently there are several glands in the groin in- flamed and enlarged, forming the sympathetic buboes; these do not require the exhibition of mercury, as in a venereal en- largement. They are to be treated as if proceeding from a common inflammatory affection: by leeches, in some cases, in others, merely the liquor, ammon. acet.; or the saturnine wash, applied on the part, and the exhibition of purgative medicines, will be adequate to their removal: if mercury is made use of, they will certainly suppurate.