203 LECTURE XVI. simple. There ai e three kmds of needles that have been used for performing it, one of which is a very old one, and rarely used, if at all at this present day, being larger than is necessary, and more productive of inflammation; its point is in the form of a spear. The celebrated Mr. Sharpe made a great im- provement on this, in having it a little curved at its ends ; in other respects it is similar to the former. But Mr. Hey, a very clever and ingenious surgeon at Leeds, and author of very excellent practical observations, has introduced one of a much better form than either of the above, and which, on ac-' count of its shape and Small size, is attended with but slight inflammati(ni, and may be introduced repeatedly; it is about an inch in length, small, pointed at the end, very light, and has two shoulders to it, and hi some degree spear-pointed—but the spear is very short. The only instruments that may be gene- rally seen in use, is this and Professor Scarpa's needle, which is curved a little at the point, but is much too long. The ope- ration is to be thus performed:—place the patient in a chair before a window, in order to have as strong a light as possible; in this, it differs from the operation of extraction ; some, how- ever, use the same precautions here as in extraction, but they appear to be unnecessary. The surgeon is to be seated in an elevated chair, or what is still better, to stand before the pa- tient—the sound eye is to be closed, and covered with a hand- kerchief by an assistant, who is also to support the patient's head on the back of the chair—the patient is to be requested to turn his eye rather towards his nose, and the operator, with his one hand, is to fix it momentarily steady—he is then to intro- duce the needle through the sclerotic coat, one line below the transverse diameter of the eye, and one-sixteenth part of an Inch (some recommend a distance of two lines or more) behind the junction of transparent cornea with the opaque, and it is to be passed as if directed to t^e centre of the eye, inclining it downwards in the first instance. Having reached the ciliary processes, which are carefully to be avoided, the handle is to be brought upwards and downwards, so that the point of the needle, which passes under the pupil, may be easily observable