353 LECTURE XXIX. another reason was, his having patients with stricture who never had a gonorrhoea—and further, a gentleman, a patient of his, perceived one who had not had a gonorrhoea for between thirty and forty years : again he says the most common seat of it is the membranous and bulbous parts of the urethra—the priucipai focus of the gonorrhoea! inflammation, is directed to the lacunae; that, he maintains, is the head quarters of it. Strictures, he says, never arise during gonorrhoeal inflammation, and patients have come to him labouring under strictures who never employed any injections, though these are considered almost the invariable cause by some surgeons. A bougie is more severe than an injection in its introduction, and yet they are never blamed. Strictures are sometimes rendered worse by a small stone passing along the urethra as far as the diseased part, and lodg- ing there. Strictures are at times considered the cause of stones forming in the bladder, and this seems to depend upon the retention of urine, occasioned when severe and extensive. •treatment of permanent stricture. This disease is so very obstinate, that scarcely a single pa- tient is ultimately cured of it; those who have been once af- fected with it, retain such a disposition to a re-attack of the disease, that a very slight cause will induce its re-appearance. It certainly is often relieved, but rarely permanently cured, though many cases have been published that would lead a medical man to suppose such an assertion not well founded, but long use to the perusal of cases, detailed with interested views, have rendered some snrgeons sceptical. The first step in the effort to cure, is to introduce a bougie composed of soft wax into the urethra, to ascertain the situation and nature of the stricture, when the form and size of it will be ascertained; the surgeon will then be enabled to judge of the kind of bougie required. The stricture is mostly found to be situated at the upper part of the canal. When the particular bougie is determined on, it must be bent similar to a catheter, and introduced in the same manner well oiled. When a bou-