364 LECTURE XXXI. velocity. The decoct, sarsaparill. is an excellent remedy, and more particulary where the irritable state of the local and constitutional disease has arisen from the injudicious exhibition of mercury. Wine or porter may be allowed, unless they excite a considerable increase in the pulse, in which case they must be laid aside. The surgeon, in these cases, sometimes is called to suppress haemorrhage from the penis, in conse- quence of the separation of the slough : here lint, moistened in spirits of turpentine, and wrapped round the penis, will be found mostly etfectual; but if it fails, the artery must be taken up. As this sloughing disposition arises from a high degree of irritation and inflammation, it is a query whether leeches might be applied with advantage—experience must determine this point. It occasionally happens that the urethra sloughs open at the freenum, and the urine flows out from the opening thus formed. In this case, an elastic catheter may be introduced down the urethra, and allowed to remain whilst the edges of the canal are brought into coniact over the instrument; and this must be endeavoured to be effected as far as possible, and success will commonly attend efibrts thus made, if one-third of the circum- ference of the canal is lost; but when more than this is defi- cient, the chance of success will be proportionally diminished. When a chancre is situated at the lips, or just within the urethra, it will often produce a stricture at the part, which cannot be cured by common bougies or caustic ones. Pieces of bougie, about two inches in length, must be introduced, imeared with some unctuous substance: this must be allowed to remain an hour at first, then longer, until it excites suppura- tive inflammation in the part, by which the stricture will be removed. CHANCRES IN WOMEN. These are seated on the inside of the nymphs and labia, rarely at the orifice of the vagina: now and then an opemng is formed between the vagina and rectum, for which there is no cure. 4