LECTURE XIV. 167 from the before-mentioned circumstance, namely, want of pain, and also of its little weight: but if there is any inflammation present, then of course it will be painful. When it gets very large the patient commonly feels a painful sensation in the loins of the diseased side, also occasionally at the spinous pro- cesses of the ilium. An hydrocele thus formed is generally transparent, which may be detected by exposing it to a candle : but there are circumstances which prevent this transparency sometimes from being discovered, by merely holding it to the light of a candle, recourse must be had to other means > having previously darkened the room, grasp the tumour at its lower part, so as to squeeze the fluid anteriorly, then putting a lighted candle at its anterior surface, the transparency will be visible. The scrotum in this disease is undiscoloured, and the size of its vessels very little enlarged : the scrotum also slips over the vaginal coat or tunic, which circumstance adds much to the knowledge of the disease. On applying the fingers, a fluctuation will be discovered from one extremity to the otlier; whereas, when other fluids are contained, the fluctuations are confined to one spot; and this, with that of its little weight, will add much towards distinguishing it from other affections of these parts:—there are certain varieties that an hydrocele assumes, and which, if the surgeon is not properly acquainted with them, may lead to great errors. It is sometimes a double tumour, one in the scrotum, the other obove the abdominal riiig, in consequence of its disterision above the ring giving it a double appearance. An hydrocele is not always transparent, ' that is, the fluid which it contains: either this may arise from the state of the fluid, or a thickness of the tunic, in consequence of the long existence of the disease; so that when it is cut open, it does not fall down upon the testes as usual, but re- mains fixed, having the appearance of cartilage. It has some- times been found ossified, but this rarely. One instance only has been seen, and within this ossified tunic it was discovered, that the water contained a mucilaginous substance. The vagi- nal coat has occasionally a cyst on one side of it, containing water; this is, from a partial adhesion taking place after inflam- fnation. The spermatic chord sometimes parses entirely through