I 24d LECTURE XX. ON TIC DOULOUKEUX. Tic Douloureux is a peculiar affection of some particular nerves distiibuted to the face. Tiie opthalinic, a branch of the fifth pair, is often the seat of it—the portio dura of the seventh pair, not unfrequently; and this is the very worst situation of the disease as admitting of no relief as far as I have heard : — but the most common seat of tic douloureux, as it is named by the French authors, is in the sub-orbitar nerve. This disease is attended with pain so excessive as scarcely to be borne with; and even persons possessing great vigour of mind cannot refrain from expressing the constant anguish under which they labour. The pain which they complain of is similar to an electrical shock, causing the patient to start: it is brought on by the most trifling cause, such as jolting in a carriage, or taking of food. Prior to the disease being well understood, it was the custom of practitioners to extract several teeth ; but this was found never to give the least relief, and the only method of affording ease and effecting a cure has been thought to be by dividing the nerve : the radial, the sciatic, and also the tibial nerve has been known to be affected with this disease, and also an instance has occurred where the lingual nerves and the gland were affected. One of our best surgeons thinks medicine has but little influ- ence in eradicating it, and the only thing of the sort which this gentleman has seen of service was a copious application of a solution of arsenic combined with potash. Practitioners had formerly recourse to salivating the patient, and a few cases are related where it succeeded: but as far as 1 have been able to ascertain, there has been no good effects resulting from the use of mercury. Mr. Abernethy considers it to proceed from a derangement in the digestive organs, and he has seen the car- bonate of soda of very material service in this affliction : pro- bably it neutralizes the acidity in the stomach : great attention should be paid to regimen, exercise, change of air, &c. to effect permanent relief. The carbonate of soda should be swallowed a lirtle at a time. Mr. Abernethy had drank "just as much wine as would do him good," and in the night was troubled with heart-burn; he recollected having some of the carbonate of