t 160 tfiCTUUE jCtll. greatly relieved, and in a short time after quite recovered his sensibility:—this single case (and I might adduce many others) sufficiently shews the use of depletion, before we proceed to the use of the trephine: for instance, had the operation been directly performed, in the above case, the worst effects might have resulted. A fracture of the cranium is not to be considered dangerous, when neither extravasation or depression is present. When the basis of the skull is fractured, from a high fall, from the whole pressure of the body resting upon that part, on open- ing the brain, and tearing up the dura mater, extravasated blood is commonly observed; this kind of fracture must inevitably prove fatal, nor can it be discovered till after death. A frac- ture sometimes occurs in the orbitar process of the os frontis: an instance of this was seen some time ago; a child had been playing with a pair of scissars in her hand, upon which she fell, and the point perforated the orbitar process of the os frontis; inflammation soon came on, which shortly proved fatal; on examining the brain there was evident marks of an extensive action in the vessels, by the great redness present. We should trephine in cases of fracture with depression, accompanied by symptoms of extravasation. There may be depression without affecting the brain, so as to produce symptoms of depression, but this is a rare circumstance. Mr. Home mentions a case of a colonel in the army, who had a portion of the parietal bone so depressed, that half a pigeon's egg might be laid in the place, yet he is not sensible of any injury, unless he drinks too much wine, which deprives him of speech. I recollect a some- what similar case, in one of the conwianders of the Prince Regent's yacht. Treatment. If there should be a fracture with depression, and no marks of injury to the brain, we should not trephine; but if, on the contrary, there are evident marks of injury, in case they do not subside in the course of a few hours, after the depleting plan has been pursued, the operation will be sufficiently warranted: but there will be no necessity if the fracture is a simple one, unlests urgent symptoms exist. A slight degree of pressure