LECTURE HI. 39 debility, and thinness of the coats of the arteries and absorb- ^"we must attend carefully -to the varieties of inflammation, and thus vary the remedies, and study to endeavour to allay the predisposing causes, &c. When inflammation is spontaneous (if ever so) it is the efl"ect of a singular or peculiar weakness, and if once set up extends rapidly. We are, however, to distinguish carefully between the various kinds of debility. There is one species which arises from stimuli, as any con- siderable evacuations, and these are the very subjects we would choose to perform operations on. There is another species of debility, arising in consequence of excess of excitement, that is, broken down by intemperance; these last will never do well under operations, and most gene- rally die, either from compound fractures or other causes- In debility arising from fevers, the parts of the body pressed upon, inflame and slough to a great extent occasionally. Blisters have been seen often, in cases of scarlatina and measles, to extend to gangrene : and in children, the same eff"ects (those of ill and weak habits are meant), are produced now and then from excoriation, arising from their urine. When the parts put on the appearance of gangrene, calomel and lime water, forming the black wash, is a very beneficial application, com- bined with Peruvian bark internally, and a generous diet, seldom fail making the parts assume a healthy appearance. The original cause of inflammation seems to be, any part of the body put in an unnatural posture or state, when an effort is made in a surrounding part to rectify it, which causes inflam- mation ; thus, if any part is divided, inflammation is excited in the neighbouring parts, and the wound becomes healed : and if any extraneous substance be by any means introduced into the body, an inflammatory action becomes excited, the result of which is, suppuration, by which process the ofi*ending sub- stance is expelled. Inflammation arising without any evident cause, is the effect of distension of the vessels of the part; thus cold suddenly applied after heat, produces inflammation of a deep seated kind. Rheumatism, and sometimes an effusion of coagulable lymph, or an abscess, which is often extensive,