72 LECTURE V. attended with a great deal of pain, and yet little or no inflam- mation present; these are best treated by the diluted nitrous acid, giving at the same time the decoction of sarsaparilla, ap- plying the adhesive strapping on Mr. Baynton's plan, so as gently to stimulate them to produce granulations, and also to cause the skin to elongate over the sore by the cicatrizing process. This variety may come with much propriety under the general designation of indolent ulcers. The plan adopted in most hospitals in town in indolent ulcers, is to foment and poultice at lirst, and after granulations have formed, to apply the adhe- sive plaster, roller, &c. as already stated. Ulcers, with a specific action, will be noticed elsewhere in the course of this work, such as scrophulous, venereal, can- cerous, &c. &c. &c. ON GANGRENE, OR MORTIFICATION. By gangrene or mortification is meant the death or loss of any particular parts of the body of their vital principle, while the others are perfectly sound. Authors give a distinct defini- tion to the term gangrene and mortification; but this is of very little practical utility. By gangrene they mean to designate that stage commencing with the loss of the vital energy of the part, till it becomes quite insensible, cold, and of a dark dis- colouration : when they apply the other term mortification. It is the result of two states or conditions of parts : 1st. of high inflammation ; secondly, of cold. When of the former, the parts are red and painful, and on a sudden the patient becomes easier, the redness disappears, and vesication succeeds, the skin becomes insensible, and of a dry brown livid colour; within these vesications there is contained a bloody serum; the pulse is quick, small, and intermitting ; shiverings, followed by cold perspirations, come on; diarrhoea, often delirium and hiccup : the patient's spirits become dejected, and his countenance assumes a wild cadaverous look. A different state ensues when the mortification arises from cold ; the parts are at first benumbed, and on the exposure to heat are afflicted with redness and pain; the parts are de- stroyed not by a constant, but by a weakly and frequent in-