LECTURE XXXI. 568 Supposing the diseased gland has suppurated, and still ap- pears not inclined to discharge its contents, though encourage- ment has been given it by warm applications, it is requisite it should be opened either by caustic or incision. I should pre- fer making a puncture with a lancet to the extent of half an inch, and if the skin is thick, and the opening likely to close, dip a probe in the nitrous acid, and touch the edges. When the patient is extremely timid, a drop of this acid may be put upon the part of the swelling, where the fluctuation is most dis- tinct : this will, by its corrosive effect, generally make an open- ing into the cavity of the abscess in twenty-four hours after its application. When matter is formed, and the absorption of the integu- ments goes on excessively slow, and vvhen, at the same time, scarcely any redness is present, and the pain has ceased, except when pressed on, it will be found advantageous to make use of mercury, so as to cause the absorbents to act, which will tend to the promotion of the absorption of the contained matter, if inconsiderable in quantity, and its ultimate dispersion. If buboes are indolent, and have no appearance of discus- sing or suppurating, use mercury, and apply a blister to the part. If the bubo is large, two openings ought to be made, one at the superior, the other at the inferior part of the tumour, which will prevent the formation of a sinus; it will be proper to carry a thread from one opening to the other, to produce an equal irritation. Sometimes enormous swellings of the glands in the groin are seen, four inches in a perpendicular and three in a transverse direction, in diameter. In these cases, by no means use mercury, but improve the constitution with bark, ammonia, &c. and also change of air, as it proceeds from a scrophulous disposition in the habit of the patient; occa- sional purgatives ought to be given. When a bubo has burst, and the ulcer is indolent, that is, shews no disposition to granulate and cicatrize, apply caustic to the edge of the sore once every twenty-four hours, and keep it continually moist with the black wash: solutions of the nitric and sulphuric acid are had recourse to with tht most decided advantage. In some subjects, even desisting Irom the use of