48 LECTURE IV. of wme, you will perceive it harden on the surface; but it does not harden on the under part, which is composed of red par- ticles, and which are easily separated. The buflFy appearance IS not only found when the system is affected, or if blood is drawn from an inflamed part, but it will have this appearance, though there be no constitutional affection present, as has al- ready been remarked. In consequence of coagulable lymph becoming attenuated. It IS capable, in inflammation, of being poured out from ex- treme vessels, and inflammation is then taking place when this lymph is effused for the purpose of glueing parts together: we are all of us aware, that if a piece of lint is laid over a wound after this process has taken place, it will adhere so closely, as only to be separated by violence. Such surfaces as take on this kind of inflammation, are the peritoneum, pleura, &c. &c. and immediately on the commence- ment, the adhesive process takes place, coagulable lymph is efl'used, and connects the membranes to their attaching sur- faces. The cellular membrane is very liable to this species of inflammation. On cutting into a tumour, when the process has commenced, you will certainly find a mass of coagulable lymph by attending closely to the appearances, for when first effused it is yellow, and has the consistence of jelly : observe the appearances under the cuticle, raised by a blister, when efiused it lakes on a peculiar arrangement; on its first appear- ance you will discover its vascularity, and the parts in contact with Its surface begin to shoot out vessels, they become more and more elongated, until they at last slioot entirely into its substance ; hence then it is evident that coagulable lymph owes its vascularity to neighbouring vessels. The uses of this lymph are several; in the first place, it serves to confine pus in the cavity of an abscess: instances have been seen what destruction an abscess is capable of pro- ducing when not prevented by the effusion of this lymph. One case may be related;—it was that of a man much debilitated, who had a tumour on the neck, which, fortnin<^ an abscts"-, ex- tended even to the loins, whereas had coagulable l^mph been effused, this great extension would have been avoided; the