LECTURE XXVIII. 335 this proceeds from a rupture of some of the vessels in the pas- sage ; it gives relief at the time by checking the inflammation. Sometimes a great deal of coagulable lymph is seen floating in the urine, and this, even after the disease has existed for some time. After the first irritation felt by the patient he has soon a smarting sensation in voiding his urine, and in a little time this increases to that degree, accompanied with considerable heat of the parts, constituting what is termed ardor urin(e: the pain is sometimes so excessive that the patient dreads the thought of voiding his urine, and will delay it for several hour^: this is much lessened by discharging it guttatim. The pain felt is owing to a deficiency, or rather, an altered state of the natural mucus, which is secreted for lubricating the urethra during the discharge of urine. The external appearances are these, the lips of the urethra are observed very red, with a prominent and tense tumefaction, with pain at the fraenum : the disease takes two courses, exter- nally and internally. As it advances the whole of the glans penis becomes affected, and is of a florid red colour; a depo- sition of serum takes place accompanied with swelling of the parts, which is productive of phymosis. The absorbents of the dorsum penis become enlarged, and are easily distinguished by the finger being rubbed on the surface: the inflammation extends to the root of the penis, and in bad habits, even to the pubis, along the course of these vessels, terminating occasion- ally in suppuration. The glands in the groin are next enlarged, constituting what is termed a sympathetic bubo, for sympariiy^ m the strict meaning of the word, applies to an afi'ection taking place in a part remote from the seat of the disease. This en- largement in the groin is differing very much from the true venereal bubo. The gotiorrhoeal inflammation does not sub- side here, but takes its course more internally, and the patient, who has just flattered himself with the hopes of the disease going off from the disappearance of the bubo, begins of a sud- den to have a peculiar uneasy sensation at the neck of the blad- der, owing to the extension of the inflamniation along the ure- thra; spasms may soon be anticipated; a great deal of pain is feltmperineo during walking, below the part first inflamed: z 2