LECTURE XXT. 255 skin as possible; but there is a degree of care required here, least any diseased portion being left behind, which would render the operation entirely nugatory; therefore, if any portion Of skin is found adhering to the cancerous parts, it is better to remove it, and trust to the vacancy thus occasioned being filled up hy granulations. Let both the incisions be carried down to the pectoral muscle, and dissect out the tumour close to the latter, so as to lay it completely bare, removing even the fascial covering, for if this is not minutely attended to, there will be a very great probability of the disease returning, or, I may say with more propriety, remaining. It is not always to be expected that this simple operation will be successful, for it sometimes happens from certain affections of the mind, that the patient does not long survive it, especially when it is connected with any visceral disease; and I should invariably make it a rule not to operate when this could be ascer- tained to be the case. The glands in the axilla, if enlarged, are now to be cautiously removed, together with the intervening substance, as the leaving the latter would be the future cause of a similar disease being produced. I am, however, of opi- nion, that when the glands in the axilla are diseased, that the operation is useless, as I never saw it in these cases attended with any benefit, and therefore I should advise, in case they are found on examination much enlarged, not to operate. After the breast is removed look carefully for the vessels; if the tumour is small mere pressure will do, but if large, then it will be necessary to secure them by ligatures, in order to prevent present or future haemorrhage, which, if it should occur, would effectually prevent the adhesive process. The sides of the wound are to be brought into contact with adhesive plaster, covering it with lint and a bandage. Another disease which the breast is the subject of, and it is gaid even more frequent than scirrhus, is the pulpy tumour known by the name of fungus h^matodes. In dissecting this tumour after removal, it is discovered that there is more disease in its substance than in scirrhus. The first appearance that it presents is a small cluster, swelling like a sponge dis-