352 ' LECTURE I. Gloucester, had a fine specimen of it. In dysentery and in- flammation of the urinary bladder, such large portions hav« come away as would very much surprise an ignorant spectator. The sizy buffy coat in inflammation of an important organ seems to proceed from the action of the vessels themselves, ac- cording to Mr. Hewson : they perform their office with great force, and the appearance is to be attributed to this strong action, as in pneumonia, &c. This is observable in pregnant women, and as nourishment is to be provided for the foetus, it only in- dicates increased action, not disease. In proportion as the animal is strong, so is coagulation slow, while in the weak and faint, as we see in patients greatly reduced, previous to amputation, it coagulates while on the stump immediately after the operation : •so, when the blood is sizy, it does not coagulate so soon; it takes half an hour and sometimes 2, 4, 6, and even £4 hours before this happens, when great inflammation exists: this has been seen in acute rheumatism. Suppose in pneumonia I take l6 ounces of blood away in 4 cups ; in the first the blood will be very sizy, in the second and third not much so, and in the fourth none at all. Again, if you draw blood in another person to the same quantity in a similar way, in the first there shall be no size or bulFy coat, the second and third shall be very sizy, and the fourth shall be as the first. Some people have great fear of having this simple operation performed, and fear produces a diminution in the action of the heart; hence the latter is to be attributed to this cause ; first, when the puncture is made, and at last when the circulation becomes weak. A gentleman had an aflFection of the chest, and blood-letting was the only relief, and he was bled so often as hardly to tinge or stain a white cloth; it is therefore apparent the red particles are slower in being formed than the other component parts of the blood, and also that they do not circulate in the minute parts of the body. I shall digress a little on the effects of stimuli and seda- tives. Whatever increases the strength and frequency of action has been called a stimulus ; whatever diminishes it, a se- dative. A stimulus increases the momentum of the pulse; a sedative diminishes it: whatever would alter the pulse to hard or intermittent, may be called an irritant. Stimulants