247 LECTURE XX. After the operation is over, the edges of the wound are to be brought together. Some use sutures ; but adhesive plaster will mostly be sufficient, aided by compresses and a T bandage : —■ if there is much inflammation the saturnine lotion must be con- stantly applied. The artery of the septum as well as smaller branches that become enlarged by disease require securing, otherwise hsemorrhage would come on. The testicle sometimes becomes amazingly enlarged even to the weight of several pounds ; here it will be obvious an elip- tical portion of the scrotum must be cut out, and this must vary in extent according to the size of the whole. ON CHIMNEY SWEEPER's CANCER. This disease is denominated th*e soot-wart. It appears first in that form on the inferior part of the scrotum, and extends until an ulcer of some size forms under the crust which becomes ragged, with the edges elevated, hard and scirrhous; when it takes on the nature of the true cancer, having in the centre a fungus kind of excrescence ; the surface freely bleeding. It is not confined alone to the scrotum, but the membranes linino- the testis, as well as the testicle itself, become ultimately aff'ect- ed by it, and also the inguinal gland, and continues its progress until some of the viscera get diseased. The cause is derived from the lodgment of soot in the rugae or folds of the scrotum, and it is confined to chimney sweepers ; so that it is brought on them by their occupation, and from the want of sufficient cleanliness. Mr. Pott remarks, it is not only rapid in its pro- gress, painful in all its attacks, but most certainly destructive in its effects. It is seldom, if ever, seen under the age of puberty. The treatment consists in the early extirpation of the disease before the habit is tainted : if the testicle is affected already the operation will be too late. The operation consists in care- fully dissecting that part of the scrotum out where the disease has commenced its ravages, and the subsequent treatment M'ill be to effect union by adhesion of the wound.