232 LECTURE XIX. long and free use of. spirits, as tending to these formations.— The particles of calculous matter are easier evacuated in warm climates, from the relaxed state of the passages, than in the colder, so that these concretions are seldom found there of that magnitude seen in our own or colder regions. The most frequent period of life for these formations is from infancy to fifteen or sixteen years; and children are the nnost frequent subjects of operation in the London hospitals, and it appears from attentive observation, that the lower classes of society are more frequently afflicted than the more wealthy, and this evi- dently may be attributed to the dissimilitude in the purity of the solids and fluids they take. It requires only a moment's con- sideration to solve the question. Why calculi of some size are more frequent in the male than in the female ? It is on account of the greater difficulty in getting rid of them when formed from the length and narrowness of the urethra. ON THE PROPRIETY OF LITHOTOMY AT CERTAIN AGES. When the presence of stone has been satisfactorily ascer- tained by sounding, the operation is not to be determined on immediately, without the person's age and constitution has been taken into consideration ; a neglect of which many operators have been, and are, guilty of. It does not appear that there is any objection to lithotomy in persons advanced in life, if their constitution is in every other respect unbroken ; as it has been done with success even at the advanced age of eighty, and fre- quently between seventy and eighty. Tlie most favourable ace is certainly the middle period of life. It is better not to perform it in children under the age of two years, as they are not able to undergo the operation with that degree of safety as when a few years older. It has once been attended with sue- cess in a child only one year and nine mouths old: however, I should not recommend it as a favourable period, and, indeed, have a great objection to its being done so early, as convulsions, from an unavoidable constitutional irritation, are likely to ensue, accompanied also with coma, &c. which carrjes them off. It is also requisite to attend to the state of the viscera, for if there is 3