LECTURE XXXIV. 428 believe, will depend upon the situation which the tumour oc- cupies. If this be a part which is much pressed by tendons, fascia, &c. the pain will be much more severe than if it was originating from soft parts, and placed among them. The opening made, certainly facilitated and expedited the fatal ter- mination much; not but that I allow, even if it had been left alone, it would have been possible, without amputation, to re- move the disease: for, after the swelling has continued for a month, sometimes less, oftener longer, it will ulcerate, and from the opening a brownish tumour, of a cauliflower kind, will arise, which will bleed on the slightest degree of force being applied to it; indeed, from time to time, it will bleed spontaneously, and it is a very difficult matter to restrain the hsemorrhage. The tumour appears to be entirely composed of a congeries of ves- sels, and will enlarge rapidly. If some operation be not per- formed, the patient will die of exhaustion, in consequence of repeated hemorrhages from the tumour. On cutting open the swelling, it is found to be composed of a cellular deposition of coagulable lymph, being excessively vascular, and if this is macerated in water, it will have the appearance of sponge. The precise nature of the disease is still, in my opinion, in- volved in much obscurity. It generally occurs to persons, who are debilitated either from intemperance of any kind, or depressing passions of the mind, inducing this weakness.—One theory is this. In consequence of the body being in an un- healthy state, most of its actions partake of this affection ; thus, if the adhesive inflammation is necessary to be set up in a part, the lymyh which is thrown out by the increased action of the vessels, is not of an healthy kind, being loose in texture, &c.; this being the case when the vessels shoot into it, it is inca- pable of compressing them sufficiently, and they attain a large" size: this process continues going on until the tumour bursts, when a fungus of this description is throw n out at the opening, being somewhat of an aneurismal kind. The circumstance on which the above theory was founded, was, a patient died of enteritis, who had a fungus haematodes; on dissecting the abdo- men coagulable lymph was found thrown out of a much less firm texture than that which is usually found in healthy per-