LECTURE XIX. 225 made to break it; this was not attended with the desired suc- cess as only a few fragments were taken away: he did not long survive the operation, and after death his body was examined; a stone of an immense size was found in the bladder; it weighed forty-four ounces, apothecaries' weight: its form was eliplical; its long axis of circumference sixteen inches, its short diameter four and a half, its long diameter five and a half, and its short axis of circumference fourteen inches. It entirely filled the bladder, and even distended it; it completely occupied the cavity of the pelvis, projecting beyond and resting on the pubes. The pelvis of the kidneys were much enlarged, as well as the ureters, which appeared to be the receptacle of the urine. On analyzing the stone, it consisted of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, with phosphate of lime, united with an unusually large portion of animal matter. He had, in addition to the usual "symptoms of stone, a paralytic affection of the lower extremities. The greatest number of calculi seen, ex- tracted at one time, was twenty-two. Dr. Catling has seen twenty-five; they were about the size of a waistcoat button. Mr. Cooper has extracted thirty-seven at one time, of the size of marbles: in another person nine, of some size. ON TUE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF CALCULI. Urinary calculi are divided into four species:—1st. Those calculi are most common which are formed from the uric acid, the colour similar to wood, and the appearance when cut into resembles the trunk of the branch of a tree; these are called the uric acid concretion, and are Soluble in alkalies and acids. Lithic, or uric acid, is a composition of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen: it is that sediment in the urine which appears in the form of small red crystals very frequently ob- served to be deposited.—The 2d. are those formed from phos- phate of ammonia and magnesia, having a whitish grey appear- ance, and often transparent crystals on their surfaces ; and soluble in muriatic acid, these are termed the fusible calculi. Note. I would observe respecting this stone, that there have been obvious proofs when it has existed in the bladder, of the 4