173 liECTUIlE XIV. which probably had been obsolete or never known at all ? and any nianifest improvement made, deviating from the regular routine of practice, is equally, in my opinion, as original, as if no hints had ever previously existed. What I have alluded to is tlie operation by injection, which is not only the most simple, but the most certain method of obtaining the wished for success. Before I proceed to detail the operation, it will be right to make a few observations. If the hydrocele is not transparent, as sometimes happens to be the case, it will be proper in the first case to make a small puncture with a lancet into the tunica vaginalis; by this means the exact na- ture of the disease will be better known, and if it should prove to be any other disease than that of hydrocele, this simple plan, invariably adopted when there is the least doubt whatever, will avoid many unpleasant consequences; in fact, as I have al- ready stated, when this precaution has not been attended to, the most fatal effects have resulted from its neglect. The in- struments necessary for the operation, are a small and a large trocar; the former is preferable in the greater number of cases, and the latter should not be used unless the scrotum is a good deal thickened. The canula should be made so as to fit per- fectly to the trocar, as otherwise the injection will not be thrown into the tunica vaginalis, but into the cellular mem- brane : an elastic bottle, capable of containing about four ounces of fluid, and having a stop-cock to it, is useful for this purpose. The solution most commonly made use of, is one drachm of the zinc, sulph., formerly vitr. alb,, to aq. rosae Ibj,, and this is considered preferable either to wine and water, used by Sir James Earle in the proportion of two-thirds of wine to one of water, or brandy and water used by others, as the precise strength of the two latter cannot be always exactly ascertained. When, however, Sir James's injection is used, 1 should think equal parts would not be too strong; and if brandy, and good, one part of it to five of water. The strength of the injection, however, must always depend upon the irritability of the pa- tient's constitution. Having divided the integuments with a lancet, proceed exactly with the introduction of the trocar, as advised for the palliative treatment: and when the fluid js eva-