27S LECTURE XXIII. operate for hydrocele, except it was transparent. There are, besides what I have enumerated, cases of a complicated na- ture, 38 hernia combined with hydrocele : the chord is now and then split into two portions upon the hernia, the vas deferens being on one side, and the spermatic artery and vein on the other. On this account it will be right, in operating, to be cautious in avoiding any vessels, by cutting at all on one side, as the slightest deviation from the centre of the tumour might prove fatal. Causes.—Any disease which occasions an enlargement of the viscera, so as to increase their pressure on the parietes. Obesity and pregnancy may also be ranked as causes, but a more frequent one is that which affects the abdominal parietes in old age. Any cause acting too powerfully on the abdominal muscles will induce pressure on the viscera on those parts which may be naturally weaker than the rest, as at the navel, abdominal ring, &c. and force a protrusion — such as jumping, riding, lifting heavy weights, blows, kicks, &c. especially after a severe illness. Those who have had strictures are liable to hernia. — Want of strength, and deficiency in the abdominal parietes; warmth of climate, by relaxing the body, and much exercise, may be reckoned causes. Many think, but it is not generally credited, that those who live on oleaginous substances are more subject to hernia. It is more frequent in France than in this country, which may be attributed to the nature of the climate. Though it has been asserted that one in nine have hernia, yet it is thought one in fifteen is more likely to be nearer the point. In old people hernia is generally discovered, and if an allowance is made for women and children, the prpportion will be as above stated. Treatment of reducible Hernia. It is absolutely necessary for a person, the moment he dis- covers a hernia, to have a truss applied; even though the tumour may be but small, and occasion no great inconvenience, and easily returnable, for the danger is proportionably greater. To measure a person so as to have him accurately fitted, all