LECTUHE XXV* 292 upon the tendon of the external oblique parallel to the course of the canal, or course of the spermatic chord, and having laid bare the sac, cut it open, you will then ascertain the seat of the sftricture to be at the upper part of the canal, or internal ring, which is to be divided upwards and outwards. As the hernia is oblique, the artery will be found on the inner side; but should any doubt arise, by all means cut upwards. OF DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. In dissecting a man at Chelsea Hospital, many years ago, Mr. Cline, sen. states, in his valuable lectures on hernia, that he found the epigastric artery to be seated on the outer side of the hernia, a thing of course which surprised him, as being a cir- cumstance thought extremely rare at that time, though from minute investigations since, many other similar cases have been discovered. It is of the utmost importance to distinguish this species from the common, or oblique hernia, as otherwise, in dividing the stricture outwards, still recommended by some sur- geons, a great risk would be incurred of cutting through the epigastric artery. The diagnostic marks are, that here the sper- matic chord is always on the outer side of the sac, instead of being on the iniier, as in the oblique hernia; of course the sac is situated between the chord and the symphysis pubis: in this species there is generally no distinct tumour above the abdomi- nal ring; but this last is not so certain, for though the hernia may be at first oblique, yet, after a time, from the approximation of both openings, the obliquity is in some measure lost, and less perceptible. When called to a patient under this kind of ruptur6, and it is easily returnable, apply the direct truss, the pad being at right angles with the spring, for this reason, that as in the oblique hernia you want to press upon the whole inguinal canal, here the pressure is only required rather above the abdominal ring. When strangulation exists be not too hasty in concluding the gut is returned after efforts have been made to this end, as it often lies concealed in the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In every instance that has come under Mr. AsUey Cooper's cog-