LECTURE XXIX, SS9 THE INFLAMMATORY STRICTURE. Is caused by the extension of gonorrhoea! inflammation to- wards the'bladder. It is accompanied with great irritation and pain of the accelerator urinas muscles. This pain will come on very violent, and continue so for the space of two or three mi- nutes, it will then cease for five or six minutes, when it will again recur with equal violence. This complaint will continue thus to torment the patient some time. The inflammatory ac- tion set up causes a retention of urine. Stimulating medicines given to act as diuretics in gonorrhoea are often the cause; virulent gonorrhoeas, as well as the irritation of strictures, tend to this efi"ect. Cantharides affect the neck of the bladder by their stimulus, and produce a strangury. Treatment. Bleeding largely from the arm, the application of leeches to the perineum, and emerging the patient in the hot-bath, or in a vessel invented for this purpose, called the hip-bath, must be had recourse to; sponging the parts continually with tepid water will give relief. The mustard poultice applied to the abdomen is useful, from the rubefacient property it possesses, and is better than the empl. lytta, on account of its not stimu- lating the urethra or bladder. A pill composed of R. hydrarg. submur. gr. iss.; pulv. opii. gr. i.; extr. cicuta;. gr. ij.; cam- phor, gr. lij.; conserv. cynosb. q. s.; ut fiat bol. pro dos. has a very good effect. If these means have failed in affording relief which they seldom will, the catheter must be cautiously inti J duced, and the collected urine evacuated. If this is found im- practicable, and there is evident marks of distention of the bladder, the operation must be performed without delay. When It has arrived at the chronic state, small doses of the hydrarg. muriat. with decoct, sarsaparill. is beneficial. I would remark, it is better not to attempt the introduction of any in- srfument, till the body, at all events, has been a good deal relax- ed by the bleedmg, hot-bath, &c. This complaint is almost, if not entirely, confined to irritable habits.