LECTUBE XII. 245 person during the first stage, when the narcotic lias not been long taken, give a large dose of the sulphate of zinc alone, say from fifteen to thirty grains; or the tartarized antimony from jj iij. grains combined with it. Endeavour to make him swallow warm water plentifully: to facilitate the operation of the emetic, and to counteract the effects of the poison, it should be strongli/ acidulated witli leuion juice or vinegar. Having thus Iftained your object, if the patient should be comatose, as is generally the case, make him walk about the room supported. He will appear to have no fear of death, and only wishes for sleep, but keep him in constant motion notwithstanding, and by no means indulge him in this propensity; and if not acceded to willingly, exercise must be enforced. If incapable of standing, he must be continually roused, and his body rubbed with warm salt and stimulating applications. Diffusive stimuli may be given as the ammonicE in considerable doses ; and when the vital energy is rapidly sinking, endeavour to rouse it to action by powerful stimulants, as brandy, &c. To take oflf the accu- mulation of blood in the brain, and prevent eftiision or extra- vasation, it will be right to open the jugular vein in some ur- gent cases; but this practice requires much discrimination. A blister may be applied to the nape of the neck, and mustard cataplasms to the hands and soles of the feet. Flour of mus- tard, united with warm water, is not only a good stimulant, but it also possesses emetic properties. The sulphate of copper is sometimes used instead of zinc. Query:—As tartarized an- timony is known to act almost immediately as an emetic if in- jected into the median vein, and equally as effectual as if swallowed, might it not be advisable to adopt this plan when the patient is insensible ? or when there is an .almost insur- mountable diflaculty in getting down a sufficient quantity of an €inetic solution to operate expeditiously? or when got down, the action is deferred, or altogether lost, from the tor- pidity of the stomach ? Among vegetable poisons may be enumerated, besides those already atatedj the small agaric, or champignon, mistaken for mushrooms, laurel-water, nightshade, foxglove, &c. Foxglove operate* generally by lowering the pulse in a few minutes