307 LECTURE XXVII. accident; all other supposed dislocations are fractures of tUe vertebrse, and if lower down in the neck, generally prove fatal. The consequences of such an accident are paralysis of the lower extremities, an involuntary passing off of the faeces, and a retention of urine. The reason of the stools passing involun- tary, is on account of the nervous influence which belongs to the sphincter muscle, being suspended by the pressure which the fractured vertebrae make upon the spinal marrow, while the nerves of the intestines are in their functional state, because they have a higher origin. The vermicular motion of the intestines is carried on while their is no resistance to oppose the escape at the ^nus ; the urine is retained, because the nervous energy of the muscular coat of the bladder is inter- rupted. The first patient that carne under my care with this accident, was John Hill: he fell from the top of a cart load of barley while securing it with a rope, in the field, on the morning of the l6th September, 1816. His fseces escaped involuntarily, and his urine was evacuated with a ca- theter. Until noon on the 18th his breathing was free and,na- tural, when it suddenly became extremely difficult and labo- rious till he died, which happened in about an hour. On the 19th of September, 1817, early in the morning, I was sent for to William Williams, who had, in returning home late the pre- ceding night frojii a harvest dinner, (at which it appeared he had drank freely) fell off a stone style, ai7d met with a similar accident, at least in the symptoms, to John Hill—a tumour was observed on his neck ; his breathing also was not much altered at the time I saw him. I was sent for at four the following morning, as he appeared to experience the greatest difficulty in breathing, which suddenly came on—but before I arrived he died. The injury, in both cases, indisputably happened below the origin of the phrenic nerve, otherwise their de^th would have been immediate. If a fracture happens in the back, the person 'ma;y survive a fortnight; if in the loins, three weeks; the spinal marrow is generally ruptured. Very little can be done in these despe- rate cases; palliatives are all that can be employed; by b|epd, y'