LECTURE XXVIII. 327 habit, and the symptoms run high, general bleeding will be prudent. He might take occasional doses of the aq. kali pur.; and if the pain is great, three grains of the extr. cicute bis die : the penis should be emerged frequently in warm water. The carbonate of potass dissolved in water 3ss. for a dose, or the carbonate of soda, which is still preferable, may be occasionally recommended. If there is inflammation on the outer surface of the penis, leeches should be applied, and afterwards warm fomentations, so as to promote tlie bleeding; afterwards a lo- tion or poultice of the liquor acet. plumb, dil. should be made use of—indeed cloths, wetted with this lotion, are recommend- ed by Mr. Abernethy to be kept to the penis from the com- mencement. When these or other means directed to subdue the inflam- matory action, are successful, attempts must be made to di- minish the discharge by taking internally the balsam, copaib. formed into a mixture with mucilage of gum arabic : it will have the efi'ect of changing the colour of the discharge from yellow to a whitish colour, but acts very slightly in diminishing the quantity of it. By the use of the balsam, the canal is brought into a better state for the use of injections, and there- fore it should be given three or four days previous to their use. Astringent injections may then be had recourse to, used weak at first, and increased gradually in strength, as the sulphuric acid, six drops to four ounces of water; this is found not to irritate the urethra: having persisted in its use three or four days, it may be used stronger. The acetate of zinc, six drops to 4 ounces of water, may then be substituted : this should be warmed previous to its being injected. Injections of lead are not approved of, as they are thought to occasion per- manent strictures. Injections of the muriate of mercury should only be had recourse to in those patients who have frequently been atfected before with gonorrhoea; it must be used very weak : it is a safe injection, but is very slow in exerting its beneficial effects. A good injection is one made of calomel 3ij., opium 3j., mucilage of gum arabic Siv. Whatever injection is made use of should be used three or four times daily, besides morning and evening; and if the patient awakes in the night, it should be used. Syringes ghould