LECTURE XXXII. 3g3 on the radius and on the uhia; and the arm must rest upon a pillow within a sling. When the radius alone is fractured, if the treatment of it is not very judicious, impediments to motion will very often re- main ever after. Here two rollers and two splints are requisite; but the latter are not to extend beyond the wrist, as the object principally to be attended to, is to allovr of the arm hanging down, and also to keep the thumb uppermost, having the palm of the hand applied flat towards the breast. This position of the limb will prevent the pronator quadratus from drawing the lower extremity of the broken bone out of its apposition witli the other portion. RIBS AND STERNUM. A fracture of the ribs requires the same treatment as a frac- ture of the sternum. A fracture of the ribs often proves dan- gerous, particularly when the force occasioning it was great, and several of them have been broken. If a single rib is frac- tured little pain ensues, and no ill consequences; but, if several are in this state, the patient will frequently fall a victim to the^ effects caused. He will die from extravasation of blood into the cavity of the chest, occasioned by the rupture of the inter- costal arteries : this will produce dyspnoea, from matter whiph will form within the chest. On dissection the matter will be found, and a clot of blood also floating in it. He may die from the point of the fractured rib puncturing the lungs, and pro- ducing emphysema ; and this appearance will often occur how- ever, without any bad consequences ensuing ; but when the lungs are much lacerated, death ensues from emphysema and mflammation combined. A case has occurred where the end of a broken rib punctured the spleen, and occasioned death. It sometimes happens, that the ribs upon both sides are frac- tured, causing great danger. No bandage ought to be applied m this case, otherwise pressure will be made upon the lungs and unpleasant symptoms produced. The chief dependance will be in perfect quiet, and the antiphlogistic regimen, using purgatives, bleedings, &c. When the ribs on one side only are injured, a roller from seven