222 LECTURE XVllI. in time loses its contractile power, and becomes paralytic; still, for a time, as the bladder becomes more and more dilated, efforts are made to obtain relief by its discharge, till the disten- sion can proceed no further: and it would inevitably become lacerated did it not derive support from the uniform pressure of the contiguous parts. When the retention has continued for three or four days, the neck of the bladder expands and urine escapes, but this should not mislead the surgeon; it may continue-to dribble away till the eighth or tenth day, or till the bladder sloughs ; not only the patient but his friends are led to believe, the imminent danger has ceased, from the time the urine escapes; but this is most deceptive, and here let me caution the young surgeon not to be so blind and credulous. The continued distension causes an universal inflammation of the abdomen, and the symptoms of incipient mortification are here mistaken for relief. The pressure of the abdominal pari- etes prevents a laceration, and the opening found on dissection is caused by mortification. Occasionally, even from the com- mencement, the urine is not altogether retained, but it escapes in .trifling quantities without manifest relief, and in these cases the disease is liable to be mistaken for a strangury. The hard, circumscribed, and rather prominent tumour in the hypogastrium, immediately above the symphisis pubis, combined with other circumstances, will always detect the disease. The causes of this affection are numerous;—paralysis of the bladder, resulting from neglecting the calls of nature after drinking to excess : concussion of the medulla spinalis: inflam- mation of the neck of the bladder: extraneous bodies in the bladder. In pregnant women, from pressure by the gravid uterus: enlargement of the prostate gland; and strictures in the urethra. Treatment. When called in to a patient labouring under a retention of urine, prior to the performance of any operation, it will be rio-ht to have recourse to other means, and the first and most obvious will be the introduction of the catheter; but if this- 3