LECTURE XX*. 348 13 evinced by this: a man going to be connected with a t\'o- man, the moment his organs come in contact with hers, an emission takes place, and all inclination ceases. There are some men, who, by seeing women, or conversing with them, have emissions. Very slight causes or impressions on the mind cause these nocturnally. Once a week, or every ten days, a man in perfect health might be thus troubled. It arises from general weakness, and is too frequently the result of a depraved imagination and libidinous ideas. If it was con- fined to debility, arising from disease, it would be all very well; but youth are found to contract these habits from one another, at public schools and seminaries, excited and allured by mo- mentary pleasure, and inconscious of the melancholy conse- quences, the practice is pursued with unremitted ardour; it soon becomes habitual, is constantly reiterated, till they at length become, in a mortifying degree, conscious of their folly and wickedness, by a ruination both of body and mind. Inde- pendent of the great and innumerable miseries and inconve- niences to which the unhappy individuals are reduced, it be- comes moreover a matter of public concern. It strikes at the very root of generation itself, and deprives the world of many valuable members of society, who might have lived a glory to their country, and a credit to themselves. If youth, from levity and inadvertence, and perhaps from a kind of modesty, are the dupes for the most part, what can be said of those in more advanced years, who practise it from more abandoned, but, in their own opinion, more politic considerations! In this wicked age, when there is unbounded communication between both sexes, and modesty has become a mere nominal existence, the universal prevalence of this pernicious practice is truly sur- prising. If it was contined to the male part of the creation it would be the less excusable, but I am truly sorry to declare, that the fair are no less criminal in this respect, to the great prejudice of their health and native beauty. The other causes are, excessive venery, severe evacuations, which cause great debility in the system. In some persons it may be occasioned by a want of confidence in his capabilities at the time of connexion.