129 LECTURE XI. the wound must be healed by adhesion. The usual place either for hydro-thorax, or when matter is collected, is between the sixth and seventh rib, midway between the sternum and spine. In gun-shot wounds tents were formerly introduced, but they are very improper, and now universally abandoned, as they act as extraneous bodies and aggravate the mischief. Experiments have been made of throwing quicksilver into the lungs, from which we know that extraneous bodies may remain there some- times without producing fatal effects. Gun-shot wounds of the heart are immediately fatal, in most instances; but Mr. Aslley Cooper had a case sent him from Mr. Furze, a surgeon, at Plymouth, in which it did not happen so.—Case. A soldier was wounded at Corunna, the ball it was found had entered the chest, but there were no particular symptoms, except high inflammation : he survived fifteen days after the accident, and was then examined. It was found, that the left side of the thorax contained two quarts of sanious fluid, and the pericardium considerably thickened: the ball was found lodged in the right auricle, having passed through the root of the ventricle at the root of the tricuspid valve. This may at first sight appear extraordinary, and one thing is certainly so, and which I am at a loss to account for, viz. that the eff"usion of blood did not produce death sooner. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. These are for the most part fatal. In the case of a wound in the stomach, inflicted on a gentleman, he only survived forty-eight hours. In another, where the intestine was the subject of injury, in the instance of Mr. Blight, who was mur- dered by Patch some years ago, the former only lived seventeen hours: the intestine was inverted, and presented a rose appear- ance. A slanting or indirect wound of the abdomen is now and then recovered from,' of which a case occurred at Haslar Hospital; the ball had pierced the peritoneum and portion of the intestine in contact—granulations formed, and he did well. There is another species of wounded intestine, which has been kuowJi to be recovered from.—Case. Captain Htinley, of the