137 LECTURE XII. inflames the coats of the stoiiiacli, and also affects the nervous system, so as to bring on convulsions. Zinc, as a mineral poisbn' almost immediately acts, which is not the case with respect to morbid poisons. Most of the latter, however, have a particular rate : as for instance the small-pox, which in the natural way appears about the fourteenth, but the inoculated on the eighth or ninth day. A variation will be observed ac- cording to the disposition of the constitution, but this will hold good as a general rule: so also with respect to the vac- cine. As to scarlatina it commonly happens on the seventh or eighth day, though I have known it protracted to the seven- teenth, or even to the twenty-first. Rubeola on the ninth day after infection is received.—To make myself better under- stood, from the time the constitution becomes indisposed the emall-pox eruption appears from the third to the fifth day ; that of rubeola on the fourth or fifth day; and scarlatina angi- Dosa between the second and fourth day inclusively. Some act by abrasion of the surface, as in measles; affecting the cuticle of the eye <5r trachea. Many are absorbed before they produce their effects, as the small-pox, &c.; it may be ab- sorbed if taken into the stomach on bread, but is slower in producing its effects ; the quantity of virus does not appear of consequence in producing the disease, and many are of opinion that the disease is milder if the matter is. diluted. Some are extremely remote in their effects, and this is somewhat curious as respecting marsh miasmata, that though it produces ague in some very rapid and quick, yet in others it is found not to hap- pen so. Case.—A lady who had been absent at a watering place with her family, about a month after her return was seized with an intermittent, some time afterwards her servant was confined with a similar disease, and the children succes- sively : the impression had evidently been made while at the sea side, where the disease was prevalent. It has been also re- marked, that a person who comes to London, from an aguish country, if ill at all, is affected with some intermittent com- plaint. But the poison that is the most gradual of any in its effects, is the saliva of a rabid animal. Dr. Babington has recorded a case in the Medical Researches, of a gentleman