LECTURE XXIV. cinomatous, and proves destructive to life by going into a state of ulceration. Treatment. When called to a patient, provided the hernia is not strangu- lated, and has not long been irreducible, it may after some few efforts be returned, although at the first attempt it does not appear easy to be accomplished. Ice applied in a bladder to the scrotum has had the effect of diminishing the tumour in the course of twenty-four hours, and in the space of two days more it has been perfectly returned. So that Mr. Astley Cooper was led to advance an opinion in his splendid work on thi,s sub- ject, that though hernia is irreducible by the taxis, yet it may be sometimes accomplished by the application of cold, if there should be no existing inflammation. It is recommended by au- thors to put the patient on a poor spare diet, in order to produce an absorption of the omental adeps: but the difficulty here is to get patients to submit to it long enough—also giving purga-r tive medicines, &c. to facilitate this object. If success should not attend the long continued application of cold, apply a laced truss on the scrotum, as this will by its pressure excite absorp- tion; and should this point not be gained, still it will, as long as it is worn, prevent further growth: but supposing the con- tents of the sac to be omentum, the patient's feelings must be consulted in the application of the truss, as to the degree of ■pressure that can be borne. The truss should be a spring one, and made light, and a few hours after it is applied it should be examined. A reducible hernia may by inattention be ren- dered irreducible, or from the formation of adhesions. STRANGULATION. If part of the intestinal canal forms the tumour, and becomes obstructed by a stricture upon the prolapsed parts, or a stop" page of the circulation, when a portion of omentum alone forms tlie swelling, the patient may be considered in very imminent danger; but it is not so great, nor attended by so alarming and speedy a termination if omentum only is included, as that ojrgafl