" lECTirnE X. tion; U has this double effect, that of cold, and the sedativeef few c r ; u '^"^'"'^ ^^"'^^'"g inflammation: few clotbes should be put over inflamed hmbs. That cold poultices retard ,he formation of matter, and warm encourage it, must be considered o„ly idea]; heat is so quickly imparted Lm the body, that unless u is repealed every ten minutes, nearly the same effect is produced from both. It is deen>ed expedient that a short digression on Constitu^ twnal Irrmxon should still precede the subject of luflamma- tion which most authors have immediately commenced their Morks with. Jrritalion is a subject on the knowledge and comprehension of which our surgical treatment wiU de- pend; by it is meant an u.matural stimulus. If a stimulus is natural to the body, as in taking food, the irritation is con- liued to one part. Irritation may be either considered local or general ; the effects are produced by the nervous influence, as IN hen a nerve is wounded, it communicates the injury to remote parts. There is an universal connexion of one part of the body with another, but more particularly so in some parts than mothers; and this is denominated sympathy; by which is meant one part being affected in consequence of injury done to another at a distance from it; although sufficiently obvious yet this principle is doubted by some. It must happen by the general communication of the nefvous agency, the most com- mon and natural is the sympathy of the uterus and breasts Coughing is an act of sympathy, the effect of irritation in the larynx; sneezing is an act of the same kind. Other instances might be adduced; but my object now wiil be to treat of diseased sympathy, which is of two kinds. The one is called the sensation; the other is termed the action of the part. Examples of the first Und: When an obtuse pain is felt in the loins, from a diseased testicle. In inflammation or disease of the hip joint, pain is felt through the whole course of the sciatic nerve, from the knee to ihe^foot; and this often proves a source of mistake to the surgeon, when consulted by a person who complains of pain in thelcuee. The leg should be examined up to the hip joint, to ascertain if it pro- ceeded from sympathy. The length of the limb is apparently