977 LECTURE Jipx^V. •u 2 is not immediately necessary to life as the other parts are- The symptoms of a slrangulated hernia, are pains in the dia- phragm, causing a sensation as if a tight cord was put around the chest at that part: this) is apt to deceive medical men, whose views a^e not bent on surgery : a constant rejection of wiqd from the stomach—and the patient, under this circumr stance, is anxious to pass it downwards ; but this hp finds im- possible. When, however, it does take place, it is an pvent to be particularly attended to, denpting that strangulation is pas^ 5 and the (irst favourable symptom, after an operation, is a cessa-? tion of it-rr-incessant vomiting, >vith constipation. This latter, however, depends upon whether it is ome^ital qr intestinal her^ nia; for if the latter, thoiigh it is small, there will bp no stools; but in the former case, evacuations not unfrequeptly take place. Also this further remark will be right with respect to constipation. In Case thp hernia has gone on to mortificationj, an immediate discharge per rectum takes place, which, instead of being favourable, is quite thp contrary. The pulse, at first quick and hard, after some time, becomes quicl^ and snci^l|, having a thready feel, similar to that in enteritis. sqon as mortification has commenced, it becomes intermittent and ir- regular, and the general opinion is, that the artery is broader in its diameter; but the increased diaraetef, if so, is no certain sign of mortification having taken place. Hiccup is by no means, as was formerly supposed, a sign of mortification, and no surgeon, at this present day, would conceive, that this symptom alone, is a barrier to the operation. I h^ve reduced a strangulated scfptal hernia, where hiccup had existed for a considerable time, in the case of Howel Jenkins, and he re- covered as soon as could be expected without any difficulty. As to the changes which the tuinour undergopS;, it is, at first, very tense, as if inflated; this, Jiovypver, is pot so conspicuous when the omei^tum is down. Next a redness is observat)le or^ the surface, ar\d the finger lej^ves an impression, as ill anasar- cous ^welling, in consequence of an ef^'iision of serum. As soon as mortification has takei^ place, it is indicated by th^ in.? flanimation on the skin taking on a purplish hu^, and thig is so generally the case, that I have heard Mr. Astley Cooper say^