358 LECTURE XXXI. showing these st/mptoms, it will "always be found to be merely an excoriation, and as such may be treated. The seat of chancre is various: it is found seated upon the glans, at the corona glandis, or on the prepuce. A common seat of it is on, or at the side of the fraenum, which often goes on to the destruction of the part, unless the constitution is good, and mercury is freely and early administered. A part not very common, though occasionally affected with chancre, is the lips of the urethra, or about a quarter of an incli down the canal: when this is the situation, more particularly the latter, it is very liable to be mistaken for gonorrhoea without the surgeon attentively examines the different symptoms. The discharge in this case is very unlike gonorrhoeal, the former being sanious, and the latter, at first albuminous, afterwards resembling pure pus: besides, if the inflammation does not run very high, when the lips of the urethra are pressed, the thickening is so evident, that no deception can exist. Sometimes the ulcer may be seen upon opening the lips of the urethra. Chaucre is not unfre- quently met with upon the body of the penis: in this situation it loses many of its discriminating marks; it is in the form of an encrusted sore, covering an ulcer containing matter mixed with blood; when this is removed a deep wound is left, not having the hard edges which chancre has, when seated on the glans &c. Now and then the scrotum underneath the penis is attacked; in this respect the same effect is produced on the ..lands of the groin, as if the prepuce was affected. Venereal matter differs from gonorrhoial: the former, when applied to a secreting surface, produces inflammation and ulce- ration : the latter, when applied in a similar situation, produces inflammation and a discharge, without excitmg ulceration. Ihe former induces the same disease in the neighbouring glands, the latter does not. Treatment. It is recommended to treat a chancre with caustic, but I do not approve of this mode: it has two bad effects: it often in- duces a disease of the glands of the groin, where no previous disposition existed, by its irritating quality, and by die healing