LECTURE VI. lived from the application of the ol. terebinth, first recom- mended by Dr. Keates ; this stimulates the parts, and promotes a quick restoration of them, and it is in those burns where the cutis is destroyed, that it has been used with such manifest advantage and decided success. The author might instance the extensive iron-works at Cyfartha, Pendarren, Douglass, Tredegar, Sirhowey, Beaufort, Nantyglow, and Llanelly, in proof of this assertion; and it is only in those cases where it has been used indiscriminately, that it has afforded any other than a satisfactory result; in some cases it is combined with linseed oil, in others used alone, in the first instance : and after- wards united with yellow basilicon for the subsequent dres- sings. In the species before alluded to (the second) it has been already shown that turpentine will be injurious than otherwise ; and in children, if the life of the skin remains, uninjured, it is an application of great severity. A case occurred in Guy's Hospital, where the skin was uninjured, which afforded a very good opportunity of judging of its effects. A man was scalded nearly the same in both legs ; the white-wash was applied to the one leg, and the turpentine to the other—in the former a new cuticle was soon formed: in the latter a sore was pro- duced which was very irritable. A ridiculous objection has been made to what appeared a very convincing proof of the relative benefit of each application; that if two remedies be made use of at the same time, one counteracts the other: but here let one question be asked? Is it not very possible, in case of two buboes, by fomentations, &c. to bring one to suppu- rate, while, by an opposite mode of treatment, we disperse the other. Still there can be no doubt as to the truth of those cases mentioned by the dresser (already mentioned) of the eflS- cacy of turpentine in the North of England; but burns, pro- duced by hydrogen gas, are not attended with consequences so serious as others. Mr. Hey, of Leeds, recommends the use of turpentine: but it should not be applied when there is simple vesication, or in the second species, but only when the skin is destroyed. It will be necessary to distinguish each species as here laid