LECTURE IX. 107 will require from ten to twelve weeks, a large one from four to six months. The sciatic nerve was divided in a fracture, when six months elapsed before the patient could use his limb in the least. Electricity assisted very much this case. The brave Kosciuskoi had his sciatic nerve cut across in a battle, in Poland, by a sabre: many months after, he came to England, and was obliged to be carried from one room to another. When union takes place, it is effected by means of the forma- tion of ganglion ; but if the extremities are very distant, union happens^through the medium of a narrow nervous substance. If nerves are only partially divided, from their state of exten- sion and tenseness, they will occasion excessive pain, and it will be advisable to make a complete division of the vessel, when it can be so ascertained. The only treatment it is possi- ble to adopt, will be to place the ends of the nerve as nearly in apposition and contact as possible; the rest of the cure must be left to Nature. WOUNDS OF TENBONS. These wounds arise from two causes :—from cutting instru- ments, and from the action of the muscles. The tendo achilles appears to be the mostly divided, and the treatment, in this case, may be extended to the division of tendons in other parts of the body; pay attention to the relative situation of the in- cised muscle, with respect to its flexion and extension. The heel of the patient must be raised, and the foot extended as much as possible; in order to secure the foot in this position, a piece of adhesive plaster must be bound circularly round the calf of the leg, but previous to the application of this, a broad piece must be applied from the sole of the foot, over the heel, to the calf; at its posterior part; the circular piece is then to be put on, with the intention of securing and rendering the longitudinal piece firmer in its situation. It is, therefore, to be secured above it. The slightest dressing must be applied to the wound, if there be any, and not the least pressure made upon it. However, if there exists much inflammation, leeches and fomentations must be had recourse to, to abate it, previous to the use of the plasters: great care must be taken to avoid