LECTURE IX. 105 patients have died from the inflammation which has been in- , diicedin the vein, and which avas formerly attributed to the; puncture, either of a nerve or a tendon. The symptoms, denoting an accession of this inflammation, are a large or broad chord, felt under the skin both above and below the wound, in the vein: this is different from the hard^ line perceptible to the touch, when an absorbent vessel is mr, flamed, as in this latter case the tumefied vessel is not larger than a pack-thread, while in an inflamed vein it is as large as the little finger; when this symptom exists in a vein, matter is formed within it; this is contained in a cyst, and sometimes bursts externally, making its way through the coats of the tumour: or the coats of the tumour give way, and the matter becpmes mixed with the venous blood. This circumstance of inflammation and suppuration in a vein, after bleeding, is much more commonly occurring in animals, than in the human species. It was from these that Hunter first discovered the cause to arise from inflammation, which was formerly placed to the account of an injured tendon or nerve. The causes of the affection are these:—the size of the wound; from its not being carefully closed, and from the patient not being possessed of a healthy stamina. The treatment of these cases will be the same means, in the first instance, as are used for inflammation, and if not subdued, then by fomentations and poultices applied to the part itself, and evaporating lotions to the other parts of the vein and arm, as the spir. vin. camph., &c. When inflam- mation happens in a vein. Hunter judiciously advises us to apply pressure on the vessel above the seat of the injury, so as to prevent its extension, and confine it within certain limits, thus facilitating an adhesion of the sides. Mr. Abernethy re- marks, in some cases it will be actually necessary to com- pletely* divide the vessel, with this intention, to arrest the pro- gress of the inflammation ; but that indefatigable compiler, as he styles himself, Mr. Samuel Cooper, observes, " Might it not be better to put a ligature upon the suppurating vein above the affected partr" The answer clearly is, " certainly not;" and the following remarks will explain this subject. A ligature on a vein is a much more dangerous operatioii'