171 LECTURE XIV. its place, so that knowing that a blow has been received, a practitioner would often be deceived if he expected a discharge of water on the introduction of the trocar ; if any doubt exists, an incision should be previously made, as already stated. It would appear, no age is exempt from this disease, and in the majority of instances in young subjects previous to the age - of eight or ten years, subjects to hydrocele, the mere applica- tion of stimulant lotions to the tumour will disperse it, by lessening the action of the secreting vessels, and restoring the balance between them and the absorbents. The best appli- cation for this purpose, is a single drachm of animon. muriat., dissolved in about four ounces of the liquor, ammon. acet,: linen, dipped in this solution, should be kept constantly wetted and applied to the part. There is no disease which practition- ers, both ancient and modern, have differed so much as to the treatment of the radical cure; each perhaps had his particular favourite remedy, and which he did not like to give up for any new one brought forward. With some, after an opening had been made, it was customary to put in a tent for the purpose of keeping the cavity distended until the adhesive inflammation took place; but this was not at all attended with success, as the tunica vaginalis fell into folds, so that only a partial ad- hesion took place, consequently the water was capable of con- tinuinc to increase between these folds. Another mode of treatment, and one strongly recommended by Mr. Polt, which of course influenced many others, was hy selon; but this had evidently great disadvantages, on account of the violent irrita- tion produced by it. There is only one state in which any kind of ligature is proper, and that is in very young subjects. Here many prefer the passing a small ligature to that of using the trocar, as from the small quantity of contained fluid, the latter instrument would be in great danger of wound- ing the testicle. The method by ligature is this: pass a curved needle with the ligature through the integuments rather trans- versly, but suflicienlly deep to pass through the upper part ot the tunica vaginalis, and then left there; the time that it is to remain should be commonly eight or ten days. Another fa- vourite mode was by caustic, and strongly supported by the