LECTURE XXVII. The third species is backwards. In this accident there is scarcely any difference in length between the one leg and the other—if any, about half an inch sliorter. The knee and foot are turned inwards, but different in appearance to that of the dislocation upwards—the foot is turned over the other, the toe resting against the upper part of the other foot. When an attempt is made to move it, there is scarcely any motion. The situation of the bone is thus:-—the head of the os femoris is thrown into the iachiatic notch, the trochanter resting upon the side, or a little behind the acetabulum. The mode of reduction is best effected with the puUies. In the first place, fix the ban- dage between the thigh, so as to secure the pelvis, then apply another around the thigh, and make the extension; instead of doing this so low as the knee, the direction is across the middle of the other thigh, as this gives the head of the bone a direction immediately towards the acetabulum: if the other thigh is cross-^ ed so low as the knee the head of the bone is drawn in to the foramen ovale, and then it cannot afterwards be moved without extreme difficulty. After the extension has been made for some time, carry a towel around the thigh, and insinuate your head and neck into it; you are then to place your hands firmly on a table, and elevate the bone as much as possible. Some- times the pelvis may be fixed by means of the bed-post, as Mr. Hey of Leeds has recourse to, as detailed in his work. The fourth, and last species, is forwards. In this case the head of the os femoris is thrown on the body of the pubis, the femoral artery and vein are put upon the stretch, and thrown inwards; the acetabulum is occupied by the trochanter major: there is very little difference in the length of the two legs. The head of the os femoris is distinctly felt in the situation of bubo: the knee and foot are turned outwards. In the reduction the pelvis is to be fixed, and a bandage or girth applied round the thigh, to which the pullies are to be attached. The extension is to be made downwards and a little backwards. The patient lying oil his side, after continuing the extension for a short time, in order to bring the head of the os femoris near the acetabu* lum, tie a towel round the upper part of the thigh, and insinu*-