LECTURE V. 73 flamniatioii. One species of inflammation has been seen where there is a medium between high inflammatory action and ex* cessive cold, and wherein the patient feels but little pain ; this was first noticed by Percival Pott, Surgeon of Bartholomew's Hospital. It most frequently happens to men of a gouty diathesis, who have enjoyed themselves in their youth, and are considerably advanced in life; it commences at the extremities of the toes, and gradually advances to the foot, ankle, and now and then to the leg, unpreceded by any visible inflammation; there are instances adduced by Mr. Pott, where it has occa- sioned very little pain ; in others, during the night, they suffer greatly from the toes to the ankle. The cuticle becomes sepa- rated on the spot where it begins, and a darkish red appearance becomes apparent underneath; its progress is mostly slow, but when it becomes unusually accelerated, the patient suffers in proportion. It is by no means confined alone to the male sex, or those in years, but when it attacks youth, it is progressively rapid in its progress, and may, with propriety, be referred to exposure to cold. A remarkable case the author saw iii Mary Jenkins, aged 13, brought on from losing her way in the snow last winter. The five toes, to the second phalanx of each, mortified and sloughed; she lost her voice and recollection, which was not restored under a week from the time she was discovered ; she ultimately did well. Some parts mortify sooner than others; in the extremities for instance, owing to a due want of circulation, and a proper degree of warmth necessary for the maintenance of that vigour in the parts. The difference of heat in the calf of the leg and foot has been known to be so much that the former exceeded the temperature of the latter by 20 degrees of the thermometer. A very curious process takes place in the removal of dead parts, and is as follows:—Around the dead substance, in about two days, there is observable a white prominent line ; this appear- ance is owing to a raised cuticle, under which there is serum: if you look 24 hours hence, attentively, the skin under this line will be absorbed; this process passes very soon through the skin, a chasm becomes formed between the dead and the living parts by the absorption of the latter; the process continues ex-