LECTURE VIII. 97 on uccount of the forcible constriction of the pharynx and oesophagus. Although occasionally delirious, the functions of the brain however remain uninjured to the last moment of existence, so that the unhappy patient sees himself dying. When tetanus is general all the muscles are affecte'd at once; the limbs become straight and immoveable. The opisthotonos happens more rarely than the emprosthotonos, and it has been observed to be more speedily fatal. By the forcible extension of the vertebrEB of the neck forcing back the head, a compres- sion on the spinal marrow is produced, and a permanent con- striction of the larynx and pharynx. The immediate causes of death may be imputed " to the pressure on the abdominal viscera, the derangement which the organs of respiration ex- perience, to the stricture of the heart, and eventually to the congestion of the brain; and these appearances are confirmed by dissection. The disease is divided into two species; the acute and chronic : the former proves so rapidly fatal, that little opportu- nity is afforded for the exhibition of medicines, and what has been given and done has mostly failed in arresting its progress. The latter has often been relieved, and has sometimes got well spontaneously. D. J. Larrey tells us, " Experience shows that tetanus left to nature is in all cases fatal;" the surgeon then ouffht to have recourse without a moment's delay to such means as the disease indicates, to remove the causes of irritation, and re-establish the suppressed excretions. .In the former, opium, camphor, musk, castor, &c. and venesection, tepid bath, &c. has been often tried, and as often failed. In these cases, indeed, no reliance can be placed on such medicines; and with respect to opium, though apparently it has sometimes proved its beneficial effects, yet it frequently has been given to a great extent without any service being derived from its use. Mr. Stocker, of Guy's Hospital, gave an ounce of the tincture of opium at a dose without its producing any sensible effect; the man died. On medical treatment little can be said that would promise success; I shall therefore select two passages from D. J. LaiTey's excellent work, which is more expressive on this subject than any other that I have perused. " Would