402 LECTURE XXXIII. are attempted, but generally are imperfectly fulfilled, in con- sequence of a deficiency of energy in the constitution. When the adhesive process is going on, it is slow, weak, and imperfectly accomplished; when the suppurative, it does not terminate in the formation of genuine pus, but a curd-like matter is secreted, consisting of serum and coagulable lymph : the ulcerative process is languid and tedious in its progress ; and when suppuration takes place in an absorbent gland, the progress is slow indeed. Scrophula may be termed a disease incident to youth, and persons under the age of puberty are most subject to it; al- though there are exceptions to this rule (and in fact to every general one that can be laid down), yet they are comparatively rarely occurring. Scrophula is a disease having so many leading principles, that it is well marked. It is considered a specific disease, having the power of making the adjacent parts sympathize in tbe same mode of action; but parts are not affected in th course of absorption. It cannot be inoculated. Mr. Hunter . says turkies and monkies are liable to this disease, and he saw white swellings in a young boar; so that it would not appear to be confined to the human species. The constitutions most susceptible of the disease, are those of a delicate and irritable habit, who can neither bear fatigue, heat or cold, or the action of mercury. Those of a fair com- plexion and light hair are more liable than those of dark: the former do not appear to have much red blood in them, the circulation being languid : this complexion, when accompa- nied with thick- lips, is indicative of a scrophulous diathesis. Mr. Hunter never saw but one black in this country affected with scrophula. The parts of the body most disposed to take on this disease from apparently the slightest causes, are the lymphatic glands in every part of the body, more particularly those which are superficially seated and most exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, &c. as those of the neck aud lungs ; the joints, with the soft ends of the bones, and ligaments in the hands and feet, the knee, hip, and shoulder joint, and the vertebra of