LECTURE XXXII. S90 ed ; in all oblique fractures, be very careful to keep the bones directly in apposition, and the limb ought to be examined very frequently : extension ought to be made very often. It will not unfrequently happen, that no callus will be form- ed ; but a substance similar to ligament, of an elastic nature will form an union between the bones; when this is the case, it has been advised by Mr. White of Manchester, to cut down on the fractured part, and saw off the extremities of the bone; but this operation is now deprecated, and it is advised never to perform it: as from the experience of men, who have had the greatest opportunities for observation, that it is never success- ful, that is, the production of bone in the place of the substance removed by the operation. An exfoliating piece of bone inter- vening between the fractured terminations, will impede the for- mation of callus, and thus prevent union ; here the before-men- tioned operation might be performed to extricate the piece. The only examples of the first kind which T ever heard of, in which the operation succeeded were two, but in both these the constitutions had undergone a complete alteration ; the patients having experienced attacks of typhus fever, subsequent to the operation. Thus people have been exposed to contagion with the intention of effecting a formation of callus ; they have been prescribed a mercurial course, which will not produce the depo- sition of ossific matter when union has once been formed by this ligamentous substance. Sometimes union will not be obtained for a considerable length of time, but at length in some cases, this desirable effect has taken place by a case-of leather being made, adapted to the shape of the limb, and bound upon it very tight. Spasms will now and then occur, and ultimately destroy life; large doses of opium must in these cases be given. A simple fracture is not entirely devoid of datiger, as many instances are known to the contrary. In old people, where the fracture is near a joint, it most frequently proves fatal. In persons of bad habits of body a high degree of inflammation comes on, and proves destruc- tive to the vital principle. Vesication will occasionally extend over the whole surface of a limb, which is mostly owing to the fracture being accompanied with contusion, more or less.