LECTURE XXI, 252 Treatment. When there is only a single tumour formed, and that very large, the best method of treatment is by injecting astringent lotions, as in hydrocele, so as to produce adhesive inflammation, and an union of the sides of the cyst: but when the cysts are numerous, we must have recourse to the removal of the breast. The second disease is, a scirrhous state or the breast. ■—It most frequently commences with a small sanious discharge from the nipple : if it is situated at some distance from the nipple the patient feels great uneasiness in moving the arm backwards, so .as to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch. The distinguishing marks of this disease, are, its stony hardness to the feel; and its being perfectly circumscribed, so that the surgeon can distinctly feel its whole extent and limits uncon- nected with the other parts. It is at first very moveable, hav- ing its attachment either to the pectoral muscle, or to the inte- guments : the pain in this disease is not constant, but attacks the patient all of a sudden and with great violence, so much so, that they compare it to a hot iron applied to the part: it is not confined to the breast alone, but extends along the axillary plexus of nerves: as the tumour increases in size it adheres to the skin, which may be known by the latter being puckered, having the appearance of a cicatrix. The cellular membrane sometimes partakes of the disease, and here the whole breast from the first instant feels of a stony hardness; from which it ■would appear that a cancer extends beyond the glandular parts. The glands in the axilla soon become enlarged. On opening the part four or five have been commonly discovered much in- creased in size, although not one could be felt externally. The glands also above the clavicle, just at the point where the sub- clavian and jugular vein unite, are commonly diseased. The next course the disease takes is to the intercostal muscles, and below the cartilages of the ribs. In true scirrhus inflammation is attempted, but it does not last long; a purple part around the tumour is formed which bursts, and granulations are seen springing up, but different from those of other parts, as they are uniformly irregular: in some places deep depressions are