LECTURE %.y. 186 means to include the nerve in the ligatures, which will be di- rectly known by the degree pf pain excited, and which ex- tends up to the crural nerve; it will be known also from the numbness that ultimately takes place in the limb. The limb must be kept moderately warm, and which may be done by a woollen stocking drawn over it. It may be prudent to take away blood after the operation, but this will depend upon cir- cumstances, which must be left entirely to the discretion of the operator—the bowels are to be kept gently open. The ligatures commonly separate, and come away from the twelfth, to the thirteenth, or fourteenth day; they are sometimes pro- tracted to even the twentieth ; at all events do not mention any staged timp to the patient, as should he be deceived, it might make him restless and uneasy. Xhe securing the femoral artery, as detailed above, will be also applicable to aneurisms in the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, of which some few instances have been seen ; the i;-eason is, that the anastarnosis is so free between these three, that there would still be a communication with the aneurismal s^c if eitlipr tl^e tibial arteries were secured, and would not answer except the interruption was complete, therefore the femoral artery being the principal medium througb whjch the sac constantly receives its supply of blood, the cutting off this communication irmst naturally be more preferable, and likely to be attended with the desired success. Or Femoral Aneurism ^iigh up.—Thp sap commences l)elow Poupart's ligament, bptween the arteria profunda, and the edge of the above ligament. The pulsation is commonly -yery strong—the hgament just mentioned, forms a boundary ^bove the aneurism, and the artery superior to this, is sound; hence there becomes a necessity for securing the external iliac artery. The Jirst person who performed the operation for t£|king up this artpry, and to whonx the profession is much in- debted, although the operation, as might be expected, was capable of improvement, yet was deserving of great merit, as the operation was new and certainly original—it is to Mr. Johu Abernethy, of St. Bartholonif yv's tjospUal, that I allude, and it must be extremely grateful tQ lyg fge^ipg^, to have found it so