1254 LECTURE XXI. it mostly happens in- constitutions predisposed to the disease from particular irritability of fibre, which effects this disposi- tion ; for I would allege, that where this peculiarity of consti- tution did not exist, and the patient healthy, scirrhus would not be the result of a blow: so it is with scrophula, and I believe that if a person, enjoying good health in every respect, was to be inoculated with the poison of cancer (if there is any such) it might be done with perfect safety. A case, however, has been related, which, without attending to the description carefully, would lead to a disbelief of the preceding remark. In this case it is Said, that a young woman having drank out of a cup in which the matter of cancer had been accidentally put, had a cancerous breast some years afterwards. I must confes I am not inclined to credit the assertion. Unmarried women, and those who have never borne children, are more the subjects of cancer than those who have had a family and suckled each at the breast: for it is necessary that the breast, as well as other secreting organs, should, at its proper period, perform the ne- cessary functions it was originally destined for; if then, this is suppressed, the constitution becomes more liable to take on a predisposition to disease, which a trivial circumstance might afterwards call into action. Ladies of the haut-ton will not relish this principle much, I imagine; but if they were to aban- don the erroneous opinions of interested accoucheurs on this subject, however grateful to the gratification of their amuse- ments unrestrained by rnaternal ties, their ofi'spring would be more likely to thrive, and they would be amply rewarded by being rarely the subject of this lamentable disease. The operation for the removal of the breast is one of the simplest in surgery. First, make a semi-lunar incision above the tumour, between it and the axilla, quite down to the pec- toral muscle, in doing which the mammary vessels sent oflf for the nourishment of the breast, are necessarily divided; then direct the assistant to make pressure with his finger on those two vessels, which will allow the operator to proceed with more precision. The next incision is to be made in the same simi-circular form below the tumour, so that the two points of each may meet. Many practitioners advise saving as much