LECTURE XXXI. 361 PHYMOSIS. A chancre seated on the prepuce during the healing process, often causes phyniosis, from the contraction of the prepuce, as the inflammation abates and subsides. It is to be relieved by an operation. Sometimes the thickening will go off, and the phymosis will be spontaneously cured, so that it is always best to wait for a short time, and the penis should be occasionally soaked in warm water, in order to facilitate this desirable effect: when it cannot be relieved, pass a director three-fourths of the way to the corona glandis, along the dorsum peuis, then direct the patient to retract the prepuce as much as he can, pass a curved bistoury along the director to its extremity, in which place it must be passed through the prepuce, and by drawing it out the skin will be divided to its edge. In whatever way phy- mosis is produced, this will be the mode of operating to remedy it, even when it results from natural causes in children. A spe- culum, with a screw in the centre so contrived, that when used, it is capable of being enlarged, or diminished in size at pleasure, is advised to be introduced within the prepuce in cases of phy- mosis, and the parts are to be gradually dilated, allowing it to remain until the prepuce can be drawn back over the glands: this is a very ingenious invention, and will occasionally succeed. Cases of phymosis will sometimes, though rarely, occur, in which the prepuce has formed numerous adhesions to the glans throughout its whole internal surface; this is mostly resulting from natural formation, and here the operation will be unat^ tended with success. When there is great tightness of the prepuce, and it is with difficulty drawn back, it will remain back without a possibility of returning it, and cause the disease which is termed para- PHYMOSis. In proportion to the length of time which the glans remain in this situation, is the danger of mortification. It is in general accompanied with an effusion of serum into the prepuce on the anterior part of it, and behind this, the skin of the prepuce forms a tight ligature around the penis, just beyond the corona glandis.