LECTURE XXVI. 302 Poupart's ligament, still no risk would be run of wounding this artery, unless the knife was carried far into the abdomen. There is a circumstance occurring in femoral hernia which . every surgeon ought to be aware of, that previous to the divi- sion of the stricture a pulsation cannot be felt, either in the ob- turator or epigastric arteries, these being situated above. With respect to a preparation sent to London formerly by Dr. Barclay, for the purpose of having a drawing made, in which the obturator artery passed over the sac, Mr. Cooper has dissected many cases, and never found this to be the case; but if it should, the stricture ought to be divided as usual. The subsequent treatment will be similar to inguinal hernia. UMBILICAL HERNIA. This species is to be classed next in frequency to inguinal, and if the numerous instances of its existence in children is taken into account, I think it is equally as often met with in practice. The umbilicus, or navel, was originally an opening into the foetus, through which the umbilical vein and arteries passed. After birth the vessels degenerate into ligaments in the abdo- men, and the opening is closed, like a ring, in the middle of the linea alba; the tendinous fibres are very firmly connected to- gether in this place, yet they occasionally give way, and furnish an outlet for the abdominal viscera, which constitutes the um- bilical rupture, or hernia. It is to be recollected, that this hernia does not consist in the rupture of any part to allow the viscera to protrude. The tendinous fibres lose their strength, and constant pressure causes them to be elongated, or to se- parate from each other; when this happens, the peritoneum always goes before the protruding viscus, and forms the hernial sac. This rupture now and then runs through families, owing to several causes: first, original malformation, which may either arise from a deficiency of muscular or tendinous struc- ture, of which I have heard cases of such, and seen one; or secondly, when the umbilicus was at first particularly large, and the opening of course in proportion ; but from the funis diminishing in size, greater space is left: or thirdly, an accu-