3!64 LECTURE XXX. on having discharged the urine. They are also almost always subject to sympathetic bubo, which takes place seldomer. The Trealmenl Consists in the exhibition of purgatives of the same kind as in the male, but rather smaller doses, as the habit of body in females is much more delicate. Diluent drinks of various kinds are to be given until the inflammatory stage is over, when tlie use of injections, of the same composition as in the male, but stronger, may be had recourse to: not to be used as injections are generally recommended, but merely as a wash, kept applied by means of folded linen. When the discharge is great, and the more interior parts are affected, it will perhaps be the bet- ter plan to introduce a piece of sponge into the vagina, dipped in the lotion, and allow it to remain there. One of the best lotions is composed of ^ alum 3ss; decoct, cort. querc, or decoct, cinch. Ibj. ; it ought not to be used at the commence- ment, but rather when the parts get much relaxed from the con- tinuance of the disease. Women being subject to fluor albus, makes it sometimes absolutely impossible to distinguish between it and gonorrhoea : the appearance of the matter throws no light on the nature of the disease, the quantity of discharge, as well as the sight of the parts, being much the same. In forming an opinion, there- fore, it should be taken into consideration, whether the woman has been connected with a suspicious man, her character and respectability, and whether she is capable of communicating the infection to others. It is clear, a woman may labour under this complaint without, knowing it, as it will contmue for years in the vagina without extending further, or wearied out as m men. A man, Mr. Hunter says, may be connected with a wo- man, and contract the disease, even without the woman bemg diseased, for the gonorrhceal matter may only have been depo- sited on the parts of a woman by the last person connected with her. Mr. Hunter met with a very remarkable case in a gentleman: he was attacked with rigors, slow fever, restlessness, &c. several