239 LECTURE XIX. urinarius is capable of being so mechanically dilated, as to give free access to the bladder, for the purpose of extracting the stone, without having recourse to the knife: this is done by means of a sponge tent. It was indeed some-time ago no- ticed by writers on this subject, but was never carried into execution till a Mr. Thomas had recourse to the method in a lady, who had, some way or other, contrived to introduce an instrument used for the ears into her bladder—after a sponge tent had been suffered to remain for a few hours, the urethra was so dilated as to admit of an easy extraction. By con- tinuing the dilatation in this manner still further, a very large stone might be extracted. It is from the dilatable nature of the meatus, which allows calculi of considerable size to pass, that the operation in them is much less frequently re- quired than in men. Various other means have been employed to dilate the passage, as gentian root, the gut of different ani- mals, and eel skin. W hen a portion of gut is used, it is to be introduced into the meatus in a collapsed state, then gradually enlarging it with warm water, it may be withdrawn. Many contrivances have been proposed besides, but as they are in- tended to act on the same principle, it will be unnecessary to state them. There are objections started to the employment of these means, but I think very unjustly; such as the length of time sacrificed, being insufferably tedious and painful to the patient—and the incontinence of urine occasioned by the re- quisite distension: with respect to the first objection, it is found in practice not to hold good, generally speaking; and as to the second, the operation for lithotomy would be much more likely to produce it. ' ^ Operation. Having properly secured the patient by bandages, the male sound is to be introduced into the bladder—some use a straight staff, or one nearly so ; the groove of the staff is to be turned downwards and outwards obliquely, towards the left side, in which direction the incision is to be made, and not horizontally, as being too near the arch of the pubes; then pass a probe-pointed bistoury,, or gorget, along the groove in the