30 LECTUKE I. loured; the skin dry, and the patient resUess; delirium and subsultus tendinum often succeed. Irritation depends on four principal circumstances : on the size of the wound; on the part injured ; on the ease with which It can be restored; and on the constitution of the patient. It has been remarked in compound fractures and other severe injuries, those very ready to assist you, who are apprehensive of danger and niipatient of pain, are subject to great irritation, so as frequently to produce delirium on the third dav, and end fatally ; while those of a calm, placid, mild disposition, resigned to their fate, whatever it may be, suffer less, and terminate favourably. The violenceof the symptoms depends on the efforts of nature necessary to restore the injury, and the importance of parts so injured, which, 5? essentially necessary to life, the irritation is rapid and extreme, and arises solely from a change induced in the parts of the body by it. Their violence in a great measure depends (when the parts are not vitally important) on the irri- tability or susceptibility of the constitution, and as the latter will be able to resist the influence of irritation, so will the strength and force of it depend, for a slight injury occasions violent effects in some persons, while in others it would have been trifling. Case. A man who lived intemperately was bled by the late Mr. Saunders, two days after he was taken ill; on the 5th the arm was inflamed above and below the elbow, and pus was discharged from the wound; his pulse was 120, with delirium. Opium was used both internally and externally, combined with other medicines; on the 6th day his pulse was 110; on the 7th he was purged, and his delirium became less violent; a poultice of bread and water was applied to the arm with opium; the 8th day the pulse was 120, the edges of the wound covered with a brown substance, and having a fleshy feel; the arm dis- charged a bloody serum; and on the 9th, notwithstanding every assistance that art could devise, he died. On dissection, the skin was found mortified round the arm, the cellular mem- brane inflamed and suppurated, but the vein which had been opened was uninjured.