372 LECTURE XXXI. dryness in the throat, more than what previously existed before their loss. A second seat of the disease is in the palate, and here al- though it never proves fatal, yet may be very serious in its re- sults to the patients, as it will occasionally destroy the voice, and almost entirely the power of deglutition, by the destruction of the velum pendulum palati. It commences by a small speck upon the integuments covering the os palati, and the ulcer though small, extends to the bone, which also is attacked with the ulceration: it mostly begins between the velum and the bony palate. An opening has been seen thus formed between the mouth and nose an inch and a half in length, and one inch in breadth, the velum being adherent to the posterior part of the fauces. Sometimes the ulcer is placed in the back of the fauces, behind the velum pendulum palati. A third seat is in the larynx, and this is the most dangerous of all; a great many cases have been seen of this kind: it mostly attacks the sacculi larynxi in the first place: occasionally the larynx will exfo- liate in this disease, in which case the patient may recover. The thyroid cartilage has been found with a large aperture in it, from the effects of venereal poison. The disease in the larynx has the following symptoms : hoarseness, cough, and difficulty of breathing; it is also frequently attended with pain in the bones and venereal eruptions. As the disease here may prove of such importance and so very destructive, immediately on discovering its existence the most vigorous methods must be pursued, as mercurial fumigations, and the hydrarg. muriat. internally, &c.; for the other diseases mercurial frictions may be adopted. If the tonsils are sloughy, a little borax powdered and sprinkled on them will relieve: the mel. aerugin. has been found a very good application, but is less powerful than the borax and honey. The nitric acid gargle, or, gargle of the hy- drarg. muriat,, has been used with the most decided success. The sores in the roof of the mouth may be washed with a weak solution of the acids, which will correct the faetor of the breath, and of the discharge likewise, and at the same time mduce a more healthy state of the ulcer. When the sore heals, if an opening or fissure remains, a false palate must be used: these