386 LECTURE XXXI. is produced, yet, the disease will be cured as well as if saliva- tion was caused. Mercurial frictions assisted by the warm bath, giving calomel, hydr. mur. pil. hydrarg. 8ic. have failed in promoting the least discharge from the salivary glands. To assist frictions, the feet may be put in warm water: the hest form of mercury is certainly the ointment, and this should always be used if it can conveniently and without exposure. The next is the blue pill; this may be given in pills of five grains each, combined with a one-fourth gr. of opium : two at night and one in the morning. Calomel will affect the mouth sooner than the above, and the hydrarg. muriat. much earlier; but they are not to be prefered, as they are not so effectual in removing the disease. The hydrarg. c. cretae is a good medicine where tenderness of the abdominal viscera exists. Confinement in general, is unnecessary in the cure of the venereal disease. It is said, that mercury pervades the system after being given for some time in every secretion, in its metallic form ; but this idea is erroneous, as the most delicate chemical tests cannot discover it in any which I have heard of examined, as the saliva, the blood, the urine, &c. Sometimes mercury will produce such a profuse salivation, that it will be quite necessary to put a stop, or at least diminish it; this may be effected by a weak gargle, composed of the argent, nitr. gr. ii. ad I iv. aqua m. the strength of it may be increased as found requisite : a solu- tion of nitric acid has also been found-very good as a gargle ; at the time of using these, give purgatives, &c.—These will soon be found to render the discharge much more moderate. The tongue sometimes will be tumefied and protrude out of the mouth, so that the patient cannot draw it in; here a piece of gauze tied round the head and made to press upon the tongue will be found to reduce it in twenty-four hours. When the salivation continues profuse, the patient may be exposed cau- tiously to a colder atmosphere. Mercury ought ever to be given and used with great caution, and wet and damps must be avoided especially. There is a disease, which is induced by the use of mercury, and which is occasionally destructive to life; it is termed the erythema mercuriale: it consists in a desquamation of the