LECTURE XII. 147. am aware, that it is stated from experiments lately made, that, small quantities do not produce this effect, but I do not believe^, this to be the case. I should not remain satisfied m my own mind unless a ligature was also made on the lowest extremity of the ilium ^ and the contents of the small intestines, as well as their appearance, ought to undergo the strictest scrutiny. The fluid is next to be examined : a portion of it is to be put; into a tube, evaporated, and the remains sublimed with heated charcoal, which will give running mercury. To another por- tion add an alkali, and a brown powder will be precipitated; pour off the clear fluid, sublime and mercury will be disco- vered. Oxymuiiate of mercury may be precipitated by the carbonated fixed alkalies, and by lime water in the form of an orange, or orange yellow coloured deposit. The muriate of tin is countenanced by Dr. Bostock, of Liverpool. When arsenic has been taken, it produces the same symp- toms as the before-mentioned poison in the first instance: the abdomen is distended, the extremities cold, evacuations both by vomiting and by stools of an offensive odour, hiccups, Sic. In addition, persons frequently die with twitchiugs and strong con- vulsions. In the examination of the body, the same cautious proceeding is requisite : the powder of arsenic often adheres to the stomach, so as to require it to be scraped off. Arsenic in- Jlames a good deal, but in patches, being a substance not so soluble as the oxymuiiate of mercury ; this nerves as a mark of distinction. Put the liquor for inspection into a bason, add warm water to it; then a little dry powdered charcoal, and also potash well dried; and a yellow precipitate will be afforded :j put it into a glass tube over a lamp, and a regulus, or ring of metallic ar- SCWJC, will be found on the glass on the surface of the powder: no other metal has been found to rise from a precipitate in the same manner: this is the most absolute proof of it. The flux used in the fusion of metals will answer ihe purpose, as it con- tains potash. By this method Dr. Marcet operate d with one-tenth of a grain, and the presence of metallic arsenic was abundantly shewn by the regulus which was form, d Mr. Hume's test is this: pour boiling water on the suspect-. M