259 LECTURE XXU. Observe.—It is seldom requisite to secure any artery; but should the bleeding be profuse, a ligature may be applied. Tarsal Bones.—It is often required either from a mor- tification of the toes, caused by being frost bitten, or disease, to remove these parts. I should think it far preferable to am- putate the tarsal bones, to taking off the limb below the knee, for several reasons ; the patient not only suffers less constitu- tional irritation, but has a greater advantage in the use of his leg. A circular incision is to be made about the middle of the foot, and two lateral ones, forming two flaps, exactly similar; these are to be raised, and turned back. It is requisite that the tendons and muscles should be divided quite down to the bones, especially at the bottom of the foot, which are large, and seated very deep : the bones are then to be sawed through. There are three arteries to be secured by ligatures—the an- terior tibial, and two plantar arteries : the edges of the wound are to be brought together with adhesive strapping. Below the Knee.—Amputation may be done by means of a flap, or what is undoubtedly preferable, the circular ope- ration, as there are many objections to the former mode, which is now generally abandoned by the profession: the constitu- tional irritation is more considerable, and if any subsequent hajmon-hage should take place, the difficulty of finding the artery will be great; besides taking down the flap after adhe- sion has once commenced, will be attended with evident in- convenience, and it will be almost impossible a second time to procure union by the adhesive process. Another disadvantage attending it is, if any portion of bone exfoliates, which often is the case in robust people after accidents, there is great diffi- culty in the removal of it. The one advantage, however, experienced from its adoption, is that a cork leg will fit with more ease and comfort, consequently it is generally preferred by people of fortune. In the majority of instances this cannot be effected, as the greater bulk of patients are not able, on pe- cuniary accounts, to be thus accommodated with artificial legs : I, therefore, would never advise this mode of operating, ex- cepting in cases, where from disease, or other causes, little in- tegument would be saved otherwise. It may be done thus: T