LECTTTUE XII. 144 recommended in cancer, but it has seldom, if ever, been seen to effect a cure ; it aflFords a temporary relief. In some scrophu- lous and venereal ulcers it relieves pain, and diminishes their irritability. I have successfully used it in acute rheumatism, combined with the antimonial powder. Its operation in an irritable bladder is doubtful. I do not recollect tobacco taken by the mouth in sufficient quantity to prove fatal, but it now and then does by the boweR. If injected into the intestinal canal, it produces a very quick irregular pulse, universal paleness, cold sweats, great debility, and death. In hernia it has thus proved fatal, even 3i. in §viij. aquae : it quickens the pulse, but lessens its strength; it there- fore is not a stimulant. As to its being injurious externally applied, the following case will sufficiently shew.—A child with tinea capitis, had the expressed juice of tobacco applied to its head. A short time after his mother missed him, and on going out, found him returning to the house, pale, and nearly inca- pable of helping himself, and on going up stairs, he involunta- rily voided his faeces: he soon became comatose, and died in three hours. On examination of the brain there was only found a slight effusion opposite the diseased part. Opium produces, in addition to the symptoms mentioned, sleep, with apoplectic sterta, total insensibility of the eyes, the pupils of which do not contract when the strongest light is applied : large quantities, however, have been taken with im- punity, but innumerable instances are on record when it has proved fatal; and the effects, during the whole time, are coma, with apoplectic sterta, succeeded by convulsions and death. On dissection the stomach is found invariably inflamed, and coagulable lymph effused between the coats. The first eflfect of this drug seems to be stimulant; the second, sedative. In one case the pulse rose at first from 76 to 86, and then sunk to 65: from this circumstance the conclusion may be drawn, that it should never be given in active inflammation alone, or at least till previous evacuations are had recourse to: its opera- tion is thought to be directly on the nerves, suspendmg their irritability. Treatment of vegetable Pqisons.—If called to a