391 LECTURE XXXII. I have heard a great deal said lately, as to the mode of union, as if it was a new idea, that the cartilage was first formed, and that ossific matter was deposited in it. I will maintain it'is uo such thing: Mr. Hunter says, " the union of bones is much more tedious than the union of soft parts of the body, because cartilage is to be formed first, then bone." TIBIA AND FIBULA. When the tibia jmd fibula are fractured, it is very soon ascer- tamed by running the finger along the bones where nearest to the surface. When the tibia is broken separately, it is gene- rally about five inches from the malleolus internus; and when the fibula IS broken, it is mostly about three inches from the mal eolus externus, the empl. sapon. on leather, should be first applied, but not tjghtly, in order that room may remain for ten- sion, which always comes on soon after the accident: over this the eigbteen-tailed bandage should be secured, having the strap on each side : this bandage is very much superior to a roller as if It was put on too tight, or the limb swelled much, it may readily be loosened, and may be removed without movin- the Imib: over this, two splints made of wood, copper, or whale- bone, covered by linen, are to be secured. The best position for the hmb is on the side, and the foot should be kept in a line with the patella. " ^ OS FEMOEIS. Here apply the empl. sapon. the eighteen tailed bandaa^ and three splints : one long splint should be pl^ed on the outer side of the limb, the next in length on the anterior part of he high and the shortest on the inner side; they should be reach from the buttock to the heel, and a smaller one to be placed under the knee, which should be raised in order to relax the muscles of the thigh. It is never the case that the femur «mtes directly in apposition. The best position for the thi^h during the progress of the cure, is on the heel. The thigh bones of children mostly unite very well, if properly attended to; the many tailed bandage ought not to be applied in children, as a