427 LECTURE XXXIV. Hunter was neither, and the man recovered very well, although the carotid was thus completely exposed. In removing a tumour of this description, cut down as close as possible to the cyst, and in the dissection, carry the knife directed towards the swelling, lest it is plunged among the vessels ; at the same time, drawing the cyst out as much' as possible, by means of a hook. Each of these tumours have a considerable artery entering them, which supplies blood. Wlien extirpated, they never return again. FUNGUS H^MATODES. In these series of Lectures I have noticed this disease several times: I shall offer a few further observations on it. It was not unknown to Mr, Hunter; he describes it under the appel- lation of fungated ulcer. Since his time, it has been noticed by several writers. It has its commencement in a pulpy swell« ing, often seated among tendons, which would induce an inex- perienced surgeon to suppose it a ganglion. When it is open- ed, it contains nothing but grumous blood, and soon after, a luxuriant fungus will be found to arise from its internal sur- face. Within my own knowledge, a respectable woman ap- plied to a surgeon of some experience, respecting a small tu- mour she had on her leg ; he said. You live too far off, but if you will come and board near me, I will cure your leg. She did so. He prematurely^ and most imprudently punctured it, from which time she dated the signature of her passport for another, and, I trust, a better world. A more deplorable case I never wit- nessed, even among the wards of the London hospitals, where diseases are seen of the most malignant description. The fun- gus that arose was of a sponge-like kind, containing among its interstices a fluid which flowed on a slight degree of pressure being applied : previous to the opening, the integuments cover- ing it, were of the usual colour, a light blue, and the veins could be seen through them much enlarged. In this stage of the disease, little pain was experienced; but when an opening was made, and the internal surface had ulcerated, it became very painful, indeed : but this symptom, I have since reason to