LECTURE XXIV. 286 upwards will not endanger the epigastric artery even in those less frequent hernia where the sac protrudes on the inner side of this vessel: the only danger in fact that arises from either mode of dividing the stricture, is incurring some risk of w ound- ing tlie intestine. Supposing the stricture to be near the internal ring, then the bistoury is to be passed up to the part within the sac, as coun- tenanced by Mr. Lawrence, and according to Mr. Cooper be- ■ tween the front of the sac and the abominal ring till it arrives under the stricture formed by the lower edg,e of the transver- salis and obliquus internus; the edge of the instrument is then to be turned forwards, and the stricture divided upwards—this is the difference, Mr. Cooper does not cut the sac, Mr. Law- rence, does. The bistoury, according to Mr. Lawrence, is either to be introduced on the finger, with the blade turned to- wards it, or on a director, and divided upwards and outwards. Mr. Cooper here introduces his finger into the hernial sac, and the bistoury between the front of the sac and abdominal ring, carried on the flat side, then turn it to cut, and change it to the flat side in withdrawing it. It becomes a consideration when the stricture exists at the inner opening, where the cut to divide it can be made, on account of the epigastric artery, as it sometimes deviates from its ordinary course, and is found on the outer side of the sac ; here, if the incision is made towards the spinous process of liie ilium, the chances are that the artery is divided ; and the same accident may happen, supposing the artery to be on the inner side, and the cut is made in that di- rection. There is one general rule to be adopted, which is to take the middle course, and divide directly/ upwards, as there is no instance adduced of the artery passing over the sac. Though some are of opinion, that the division of the epigastric artery is of no serious consequence, yet I conceive such gen- tlemen to be devoid of that necessary ingredient, common sense. Several divisions of this vessel have occurred, one of which has been related by Mr. Lawrence, and two by Mr. Astley Cooper : in Mr. Lawrence's case, the surgeon, not content with having divided the stricture, made another cut on the inner side of the sac, and wounded the artery; it immediately re-