LECTURE XXXI. gg^, Some surgeons in extensive practice who have patients with this irritability of fibre have given the hydrarg. muriat. in th€ decoction with advantage. Van Sweeten's celebrated remedy was composed of this preparation, and it is supposed De Velno's vegetable syrup is nothing more than it sweetened with molasses. Various opinions have been entertained by different writers • as to the specific action of mercury: as an attack of fever wilt ^spend the violence or action of the venereal poison for a time - until that fever is abated, so the use of mercury is supposed to cure the disease, by inducing a more powerful action in the system than that caused by venereal virus: as the disease might return upon the declination of the newly set up action, it ia thought, that during this time, a more healthy state bein.. prdu duced m the constitution, has the effect of overpowering the diseased action, and thus the complaint is removed. In administering mercury, this rule should always be kent in view, namely, that the cure of syphilis does not depend upon the violent action of the medicine, but on the gentle and lon^ continued use of it, so as to have a slight effect upon the sali! vary glands : it is scarcely possible to point out a definite length of time which this medicine ought to be given in the several spec.es of the venereal disease, with the intention of removing rt. Very much must depend on the constitution of the patient- on the mveteracy or mildness of the complaint, and on several other circumstances. In chancre, it ought not to be given for a shorter time than three weeks ; in bubo, four weeks ; in the ve! nereal .ore throat, five weeks; in diseases of th bones it ahou d be continued rather longer; and in venerealrheumat sm eight week.. Some persons are so immediately affected whh mereur,, that a simple dose of three grains ^ill Lvate^ thlt f 1 ... '"J'*^"' 6ven by tfie moderate use of this T> ^ ! -,, »*""gmng ot the throat and parts ad acent »i «m,n»ed do«,; l,„,ee, though, no perceptible effWt