338 LECTURE XXIX. connected with permanent stricture, by the free use of injec- tions of a stimulating kind, and the plentiful administration of opium: at other times by the frequent and copious use of spi- rituous liquors, riding much on horseback, &c. At the con- tracted part a spasmodic action is induced. Even a difference in the temperature has great influence in the facility of voiding the urine, hence, a person going out of a warm room into the sti-eet, will not be able to pass a drop of urine, but on returning, after a little time has elapsed, he will make water readily. Treatment. First attempt to pass a bougie, but in a very gentle and cau- tious manner, so as not in the least to irritate the penis: when it has passed as far as the stricture, do not attempt to push it beyond this point by any means, but preserve a gentle and uni- form pressure for the space of five or ten minutes, waiting for the absence of the spasm: by these means the surgeon will generally succeed in passing the bougie into the bladder. If the patient is desired to force gently, on withdrawing the bou- gie, the urine will mostly follow in a moderate stream. If, however, this treatment fails, antimony combined with a very small dose of opium, or administered alone in small quantities, frequently repeated, so as to induce nausea, should be ordered. Tobacco glysters will also be found serviceable, so as to pro- duce general relaxation. The tinct. ferri. muriat. gtt. x. every five or ten minutes, has been of the most decided benefit, and Mr. Cline most strongly recommends it in the spasmodic stric- ture. Mr. Else had a case, which was relieved from time to time by lime water. Another person was cured by means of the cold bath, when every thing else had failed. The author has known a gentleman, who was subject to this stricture, materially relieved by emerging the penis only in cold water; in fact, he could not void his urine for some time, till he adopted this prac- tice. The warm bath has occasionally been recommended, and considered very useful, but this practice appears to have been pursued by confounding the spasmodic with the inflammatory stricture.