LECTURE XXVII. 311 by gradual extension, it is reduced. I met with, in my own practice, this accident twice; once in Thomas Watkins the parish clerk, and the other in a Miss Lewis. When the uhia and radius are out of place, either before or behind, the same extension is to be made as above described ; and although they are to one side, as soon as the arm is bent, and extension made, they will come in their places; if for- wards, which is not at all frequent, a fracture of the olecranon must inevitably happen. The lateral dislocations are usually incomplete : if of the ulna itself, the coronoid process sinks into the cavity destined to receive the olecranon ; if of the radius, the head of the bone is separated from the ulna, and thrown on the fore part of the external condyle: it is known by the arm being a little bent, but cannot be either bent or straightened far—the motion is thus: the hand cannot be laid either completely prone or su- pine, therefore the motion of flexion and extension is much di- minished. It is with great difficulty reduced. The best way is to place the elbow upon your foot in such a manner that the olecranon shall be fixed from going back; then endeavour to straighten the arm. Some advise a fprcible extension to be made backwards. It may be proper, in obstinate cases, to bleed, so as to produce syncope; use the warm bath, a tobacco glyster, &c.: in some instances it is incapable of reduction without. OF THE WRIST. When it is dislocated, it is either outwards, or as some say backwards, and inward or forward. The injury is very evi- dent. The transverse or lateral ligament, which passes from the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid bone, is rup- tured, by which the hand is distorted. It is only requisite to use simple extension : and after reduction, a splint is to be applied, bound by a bandage to the palm and wrist. Noie.—There is an injury sometimes taking place at the wrist joint, which might be mistaken for dislocation: it is a swelling arising over the wrist joint, generally occasioned by a person putting out his hand to save himself in falling. It may