131 LECTUIIE XI. separate, which is an increased process of danger: but if the bone be depressed, it should be raised as if proceeding fiom any otlier accident. Examples have been seen often of balls lodging in the head, without any inconvenience, and from these taking a direction as if they had entered the brain; they have generally been supposed to have lodged in the skull, but on dissection they have commonly been found in the ethmoid sphoenoid, or frontal sinusses. A case occurred where, from the bursting of a gun, part of the breech enlered the os frontis, the inner diploe of which was broken, and the pulsatory motion of the brain observed: after a time a suppuration took place, the piece of iron was discharged, and the patient recovered. In this case it must have been lodged in the frontal, and per- haps part of the sphoenoidal sinus, and this without produc- ing pressure on the brain. In another case, where a nobleman attempted to destroy himself by firing a pistol a little anterior to the ear, he recovered from the immediate symptoms, and after two years a discharge took place in the nostril, and con- tinued some time; ulceration then came on in the roof of the mouth, the palatine artery was divided by the process, and in restraining the htemorrhage the ball was felt, which afterwards was discharged through the palatine portion of the superior maxillary bone. A ball may lodge in the brain without any fatal symptoms or mischief ensuing: it first occasions coma, but soon goes off. Desault mentions a case of it in his me- moirs. A case was seen at Guernsey, of a ball lodging for a length of time in the ethmoid cells. And among other sur- prising cases of these wounds, was seen that of a man who had the ramrod of a pistol pass into his forehead and out at the occiput, without death ensuing. ON COMPOUND FRACTURES OCCASIONED BY QUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. A compound fracture by a ball is the worst kind of fracture -that we have to treat, because the bone is broken into a number of pieces, besides the laceration of the integuments, which will be disposed to slough. When bones are much splintered ati h