LECTURE XXXIII. 422 bones distorted in some degree. The head appears of a square figure, and is flattened at it« vertex. In proportion as the head is large are the intellects of the child more acute. The bones of the cranium not affording the usual resistance to the growth of the brain, it increases more rapidly in size than those who are healthy- The spine becomes distorted laterally, and there are always two incurvations, so as to preserve the perpendicular state of the body ; the ribs, instead of being arched, are nearly straight, and this occasioning a projection of one of the shoulders; the pelvis is altered in its shape, the pnbes ap- proaching each other, and the sacrum much incurvated; the thigh, the tibia and fibula, as well as the radius and ulna are all bent forwards. Those who are the subjects of ricketts when they are young, (should they survive,) are much stronger than others at the adult age; and those persons that perform such great feats of strength are generally distorted, and have been suffering from ricketts in their younger days ; the reason of this is evident; the bones being deprived of their proper nourish- ment, and absorption going on in the usual manner, a spongy texture is formed, in which state, by the action of the muscles, the bones become more curved than in a healthy person, and when the patient regains his strength, there is a greater surface for the deposition of earthy matter. Treatment. The object that a surgeon would have principally in view, is that of affording the body the best nourishment, and of giving the arteries an additional power of action. The food should be stimulating, the meat should be so prepared as to admit of easy digestion; the diet should be animal food and milk; ale and wine, should be allowed ; very little or no vegetable matter should he permitted. The three circumstances to be recom- mended, are, air, exercise, and a nourishing diet. Friction upon the iimbs will be of considerable advantage, in assisting the powers of tlie circulation by mechanical aid : it may also be serviceable to bathe the body in cold salt water twice daily j the little additional stimulus the salt gives, will assist in