LECTURE XXXI. ggg any application, and allowing a scab to form over the ulcer, will facilitate the formation of granulations, and the cicatrizing process more expeditiously than where the surgeon is over officious. Erysipelatous inflammation, accompanying bubo, is to be treated by purgatives, bark, &c Mercury would be highly improper. Sometimes a sinus will form in spite of the surgeon's efforts: if superficial it should be dilated : if deep seated, and running in such directions as to preclude the possibility of its being opened without a good deal of danger being incurred, injections may be used, composed of the hydr. muriat. gr. ij. aqua |j. M. or, the nitric acid, or the tinctura lyttse 3j, to aqua ^j. M. Some cases are seen, where the healing process cannot be induced almost in any way that can be devised, aud here it will be advisable to try seetons, or laying open the sinus: in the latter, very great caution must be taken, on account of the con- tiguity of the parts, so important and numerous. The lymphatic glands in the groin take on now and then a disease of a fungus nature, projecting through the skin. The treatment will consist in the application of the nitrate of silver, once in the day, and the black-wash, or else make a number of little points of paste, and dip them in the muriate of mercury m solution, and introduce five or six into the gland, which will produce a sloughing of the parts in about four days. The glands in the groin often continue enlarged, and in an indolent state after a mercurial course; here blisters should be used to disperse them. Buboes, as well as chancres, not unfrequently put on a slough- ing disposition, and will occasionally destroy life. Several cases have been seen in which the femoral artery has thus separated: in one, this artery was laid bare all around, yet the patient re- covered as the wound filled up with granulations. There are many patients that die annually, in the London hospitals, from sloughing buboes. The treatment is exactly similar to that of chancre similarly diseased: carrot poultices, fomentations, &c. A sloughing bubo is often caused from the injudicious use of mercury, and the surface thus exposed will be very extensive.