4 LECTUBE XI. 123 be treated as a contused wound; very little hemorrhage com- monly comes on, as will be hereafter explained. Hunter considered these wounds to differ in no respect from those of contusion; and the same treatment will be appli- cable. The best application will be, a poultice of bread and milk to the wound and evaporating lotion to the leg, as soon as the skin becomes inflamed. The reason for applying thus early a poultice is, that it is an object to bring about a sepa- ration as soon as possible. After a few hours, and prior to any danger that may arise from a second haemorrhage, poultices and fomentations are advantageous, from their diminishing in- flammation ; we may also do good by topical blood-letting, as leeches, which are easily procured in this city, but not so on actual service in the army. This would induce me to take no- tice of the practice of a surgeon in the army on foreign service, who had a number of gun-shot wounds under his care: it was freely to dilate the wound, and suffer it to slough with a view of affording an opportunity for the discharge of any irritating body. Now this indiscriminate dilatation Hunter decidedly objected to ; and it is evident that the only way in which it can do good, is by unloading the vessels, and for this purpose sca- rifying the part will answer every purpose, and is one of the best means to be made use of when the limb becomes exten- sively infliamed and swollen. By its adoption, united with the above means, the appearances have been found to subside the following day or two ; and another good effect scarifying has, is, that the eschars separate much more quickly. It is but fair to mention there are numerous instanc€s of the success of dilating wounds: this practice was adopted in many cases that occurred in the engagement between the Swiss and Parisians on the 10th of August, 1/92. Leeches or sca- rifying are, however, considered the modern practice in similar cases. A practice that gives ease, and tends to check inflam- mation, is wrapping the whole limb in cloths wet with the liquor, acet. plumb, dil. especially in warm climates or warm weather. As to the constitutional treatment, large doses of opium with antimonials will be found beneficial in a fow hours, •when the patient becomes restless. Bleeding, if the poweva of