418 LECTURE XXXIII. years, and this occurs more frequently by far in adults than in children. On examination after death, the disease will be found to have commenced in the ligaments of the spine: they are found thickened, and the vertebrae absorbed, in consequence of pres- sure made upon them. The matter makes its way between the anterior ligaments of the spine and the bodies of the vertebras until it reaches the psoas muscle, which, more regularly giving way to pressure, becomes the conductor of the matter ex- ternally, and the principal part of this muscle becomes absorbed in the centre, so as to form a tube, and prevents it entering the cavity of the abdomen, which, if it was to do, would cause the destruction of life in a very short time. It takes the course of the psoas until it arrives at its tendon, when it perforates the anterior side of the muscle close to the tendon of the external oblique, and then makes its way under the fascia lata. The psoas abscess does not always make its way by the inner side of the femoral vein, as it is sometimes found on the outer side of the artery. The lumbar abscess does not always originate from the an- terior ligaments of the vertebrae, but now and then from a lateralHgament under the spinous processes ; this species of the disease is rather more rapid in its progress than that taking the course of the psoas muscle. Treatment. The first thing requisite to be done is the insertion either of issues or setons directly over the seat of the disease, for the pur- pose of producing external irritation, as well as a discharge. When it has made its way into the thigh, so that the abscess may be opened, it may either be done by tapping, or by a lan- cet, in the manner so strongly recommended by Mr. Abernethy. The thin skin, situated directly over the most prominent part of the tumour, is not to be chosen for the introduction of the instrument, but some part where the skin is not so much af- fected by the disease; for if the opening is made where the skin is very thin, it will seldom unite as readily as is desirable. The matter is to be discharged once in about ten days or »