10 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. What inferences, then, does the scientific surgeon draw from hence? He knows that, after the effusion of blood, a gluey matter wdl be secreted, and takes advantage of this knowledge by approximating the lips of the wound together, and by that means they become united-this is healing a wound by the ad- hesive inflammation. But if pus is formed, he knows that to attempt this would be absurd, as the wound must be healed by granulations, which he promotes as before described. After the process of granulation is effected, there is another principle to be observed : it is, approximating the edges of the wound to make cicatrization more rapid. The processes which take place in common wounds likewise do so in the more complex, as in componnd fracture .—inflam- mation takes place, matter is thrown out from the ends of the bone ; but, as there is an outlet, it escapes. Nature, foiled in this, her first object, begins the other process; granulations arise from the bone, and in this manner the union is effected. It is often rendered tedious from exfoliations, &c. A surgeon often takes advantage, when there is but a small wound of the surrounding parts, of approximating the edges of the wound {it should alwaj/s be allempted); they sometimes unite, and thus change the compound to a simple fracture. Without attending to these established principles, the practice of Surgery is little more than quackery. The greatest experience of the ablest men is derived from in- sulated deductions of established facts, and it is experience which makes the scientific surgeon. Principles should be - founded on observations and experience, and all hypothesis thrown aside; the one is a sure light to the judgment, and serves as a guide to the practitioner; while the other may be com- pared to an Ignis fatuus, almost as surely leading him astray. Practice consists in the application of remedies, and you should always observe neatness in their application, as from this circumstance, however trivial it may appear, patients and their friends are very apt to form their judgment of you. There must be likewise a facility in using aud applying them : thus, if an accident happens; aud you are sent for, on your coming you