LECTURE XI. The division of a vein sometimes requires surgical assistance ; here it will be necessary to tie it above the wound. As this, however, cannot be done to the auxiliary vein, a piece of lint may be introduced to compress it. It will be advisable when a gun-shot has passed near an artery, to apply a tourniquet loosely on the leg, so as to be immediately applied if necessary. Gun-shot wounds of the chest are common, though wounds of the lungs do not so frequently happen; for the chest being surrounded with bone presents a firm resistance to a bullet, which enters the skin and becomes turned off, following the course of the ribs without penetrating the chest. The first symptom of a wounded lung, is coughing with bloody expec- toration, difficulty of breathing, and the patient always lies on the wounded side, great pain, small contracted irregular pulse, pallid countenance and cold extremities, with emphysema on the external surface of the chest: the blood that is brought up is mixed with a quantity of air, which makes it appear frothy. . Hunter considered the wounds less fatal than when made with a cutting instrument; and this in all prabability may be at- tributable to their bleeding less, and consequently the danger of extravasation is diminished. Wounds of the lungs are not always fatal. A farmer in a rencontre with some smugglers, received a ball which pierced his scapula, and came out at the nipple, and he recovered. M. Sabatier relates a case of an officer wounded in the chest: the ball entered where the car- tilage and bone of the seventh rib unite, and in coming out at the angle of this bone, fractured it in two places; the splinters of bone were removed, and a piece of his coat; several splin- ters were afterwards in the progress of the treatment extracted, and one from the substance of the lungs. In thirty days he was bled exactly thirty times, and although he had to contend against the irritation of the splinters, the introduction of a seton, &c., he recovered. A bullet may lodge in the lungs without being attended with fatal consequences. In the dis- section of a man, a bullet was found in the lung, a cyst had been formed round it, and he had suffered no incovenience from it during life. 1 have remarked that gun-shot wounds are less dangerous than those from a bayonet or a similar instru-