@85 liECTURE XXIV. iu\\y. Covered as these parts are by blood-viessels, it must Evidently be an operation rather difficult ; but keeping in mind the above coverings, it will be made much easier. The next part of the operation, is to divide the sac; for this purpose nip it up between the finger aild thumb, in order to clear it from the intestine, and then make a tolerable sized opening for the director; this division is f6 extend to the inferior part of the sac and upwards to within an inch of the abdominal ring: keep- ing the knife in an horizontal direction, the water immediately escapes. Another mode, is to embrace the tumour behmd, and press the fluid forwards, so as to feel a fluctuation, thus preventing any injury being done to the intestine in dividing the sac. As soon as the sac is opened-, the intestine and omentum are discovered, the latter enveloping the former, and the intes- tine occupying the upper and back part. In making the first incision, nothing impedes the operation more than the division of the external pudendal artery, as I have above remarked, in cutting through the integuments: to ensure future success, it is preferable to secure it immediately. After the operator has observed in what direction the omen- tum runs, he is to endeavour to ascertain the seat of the stricture by the introduction of his finger between the omentum and liernial sac upwards ; if it is at the abdominal ring, he is to in- troduce a director, or what is still better if it can be done, the finger into the neck of the sack within the aperture of the ring, and guide a blunt probe pointed bistoury on the groove, in the di- rection the stricture is to be divided, directli/upw(irds,or,as some "say, upwards and 'outwards. Mr. Astley Cooper adopts, and tecommends die cut to be directly upwards; and tlie peculiarity in his plan is this : he divides the sac to within an inch of the ■abdominal ring, the finger of the operator is to be introduced into the sac, and when the stricture is felt, a probe pointed tistoury is to be conveyed over the front of the sac into the ring, between the sac tind the ring, and the ring only he ad- vises to be divided directly upwards in the centre of the middle of the sac, sufficient to allow of the protruded parts being re- turned into the abdomen: others advise dividing the hernial ■sac -with the stricture as far as it extends. Gutting directly