liECTUKE VI. 83 concile us to those contradictions ; if the cold bath is bene- ficiul, oil the same'principal the warm bath cannot be advan- tageous. The author would think unless right and wrong are syiionimous, applications so different cannot universally be useful, unless burns and scalds are found to vary very much from what are generally seen, both as to their different states and extent of the violence. But we must endeavour to draw a line of distinction at all events. Cold applications, it must be allowed, are not advisable in every kind of burns and scalds, neither are stimulating ones; hence let us see if we cannot ^ tempt these two authors of Iceland and of Guinea to approach each other. Dr. Kentish advises the parts to be bathed with the rectified spirits of wine, with or without camphor; then the oleum terebinthinae with the uug. resin, flav. on lint, on the burns ; in the second application, laudanum or proof spirits may be substituted: and the ointment to be mixed with cam- phorated oil instead of turpentine, or the ung. liquor, acet. plumb., or lapis calaminaris ; he then advises powdered chalk to be applied. The first dressings should remain on twenty- four houis. Very great deformity now and then occurs from the granu- lations on the chin, adhering to those of the breast: of the thigh, to the abdomen : of the fore-arm, to the upper, &c. &c.: in the former the under lip is drawn down, and the saliva, by trickling over the breast, is apt to excoriate it; here, by putting your finger behind the portion of skin, you can divide it, and then apply adhesive plaster; but should the union be complete, then the operation will be useless, of which several instances could be mentioned. We should, in the first instance, endea- vour to prevent its taking place, by interposing some body between, as the deformity is sometimes excessive, and the loss of character certain; the best thing we can do is to apply ad- hesive plaster over the granulations, and upon this a soft cushiorj^ The same treatment and attention is required for the thigh and fore-arm; it is of no advantage to divide the skin between the arm and fore-arm, the deformity will exist. Sir James Earle has mentioned a case where the chin was united to the breast, on which he operated with benefit. H