LECTURE XII. U6 1 without any increased action of the pulse previously; it has the same effect in health ; the pulse becomes irregular as well as slow. I have read lately of several instances of oxalic acid being mistaken for Epsom salts, consequently taken, and terminating fatally : chalk and water given soon after it has been swallow- ed may be considered an antidote for this poison, as it decom- poses the acid in the stomach, and produces oxalate of lime. • Vegetable poisons act only, or principally on the nervous system. The American poison, used by the Indians for their arrows, is similar in appearance to cicuta. To shew'its effect the following experiment was made on a rabbit: a slight in- cision was made with a lancet, and about one-sixteenth part*of a grain of the poison was inserted; in about five minutes the animal began to drop its ears, then became convulsed, and in two minutes more died. The poison seemed to operate rather gradually, the voluntary powers first ceased, then the invo- luntary, and lastly the heart. Even if the principal nerves are divided the effect is produced. ON MINERAL POISONS. The oxi/muriate of mercury when swallowed, acts iimnedi- ately on the stomach, producing in it excessive pains, attended with vomiting and purging, heat in the throat and extreme thirst, restlessness, slight convulsions and great debility: it seems to occasion death by the irritability produced. If called upon to examine the body after death, be careful that you leave nothing undone on your part for the purpose of ascertaining whether it is occasioned by poison or not, and if so, of what nature, as your evidence will have great weight in a coiut of justice. Adopt this plan : make a ligature around the duode- num and oesophagus, then take out the stomach, pour its con- tents into a vessel, wash the stomach out as clean as possible, retaining the water in a bason, then cut it open. If this poison has been taken, the stomach will have the appearance of red "oehet^ that is, generally in flamed: this poison wo^ only uni- versally iirflames the slomach, but al^ the small inteslines. I