LECTURE XXVI. 300 to be cut through in the same cautious manner; then, instead of taking hold of the sac with a pair of forceps as usual, nip it up between the finger and thumb, in order to separate it from the intestine. The knife is then to be carried horizontally into the sac, so as to make a sufficient opening for the introduction of the director, along which the probe-poinled bistoury is to be passed, so as to dilate the sac completely. The greatest caution is here required in opening the sac, as the intestine is in close contact with its inner surface. Having proceeded thus far, and turned the gut on one side, introduce one finger in a gradual manner, and the usual seat of stricture being found, the flat side of the bistoury is to be carried upon tlie finger into the orifice of the sheath, and gv'ilh a very slight movement the stric- ture is to be divided as far as Poupart's ligament, so as to allow of the hernia being reduced ; in doing of which the knife is not to be passed into the abdomen at all. Mr. Hey recommends cutting direcllj/ upzcards, which is certainly a safer practice than the usual one of dividing the stricture upwards and inwards, even when there is a variety, which I shall hereafter notice. But supposing the stricture not to be in the above direction, feel for the orifice with a director, and then carrying the finger quite into the abdomen, it will be found behind Poupart's ligament. The knife is to be carried behind its posterior border with its edge uppermost, and the stricture is to be divided upwards and inwards, letting the um- bilicus be the line for the incision. The operator must carry his finger one inch and a half into the crural sheath, before he reaches the tendon of Poupart's ligament. The incision should rot, upon any consideration, be made towards the pubis, for the danger here is so great, and comparatively speaking, so trifling when in the other direction, that no man who feels for his patient would, for a moment, think of doing so. The opera- tor is under the necessity of pushing his finger very deep into the sac, and although care would be taken, of course, to avoid the intestine, still, as the knife is passed in a concealed way under the intestine and omentum, the former is very liable to be wounded. I recollect a case mentioned of a woman, who had the gut cut into in three different places, by which the faeces