LECTURE XVI. hair brush, on the eye, over whicli it very soon spreads, if there- are no adhesions, and the pupil is perfectly distinct, which will be known by its motion being free and prompt; it will be ob- served very much dilated, in consequence of the contraction of the iris. The cataract is sometimes loose and floating in the eye, and having an opacity: in this case it would appear, that the tunica tiansversalis, the connecting membrane between the crystalline and vitreous humours, becomes absorbed, and in the operation here it will be necessary to make use of a scoop. I had some years ago a very excellent opportunity of witness- ing the progress of this disease from its infancy, in Mrs. Bas- kerville, the lady whose case I have intioduced on the subject of burns and scalds : she had a cataract in both eyes : I recol- lect her sight as perfect as any persons, and I remember the gradual loss of vision, which she attributed to her anxiety in o-ettino- some very fine and delicate needle-work completed, and ■which she thought tended to weaken her sight very much. At her request, 1 very often examined her eyes, and was satisfied -in my mind there was every probability of success to be ex- pected from an operation. I strongly advised her to under- take the journey to town, and place herself under Mr. Wathen Phipps. She did so; he couched her, and she recovered her sight, which she still retains to the present moment. The cause giving rise to the formation of cataract is not well understood: it has generally been supposed to originate from an inflammatory action of the parts, but this is not always the case; I do not mean to affirm it is never so, for the contrary is well known; there is no marked sign of the presence of m- flammation at the commencement of the disease, and seldom any pain accompanying it. It appears no age is exempt from cataract, as it is seen in children and in old age ; but the most . prevalent age is in the decline of life, that is, after forty. If at suddenly forms from a severe injury, it recovers its trans- parency without any operation being necessary. Treatment. Mr. Ware, who has had extensive practice, and written on this subject, advises the application of ether to the eye, to the