LECTURE XI. 128 tnent, owiug to the haemonhage being less from one than the other. When patients die of these wounds, it is from their not healing by adhesion ; but after the inflammatory stage, suppu- ration ensues, which exhausts them. Although it is well known that a ball may pass through the lungs, and a recovery take place, yet it is stated by a gentleman of considerable ex- peiience as an army surgeon, that phthisis pulmonalis most frequently comes on. Morgagni mentions an instance of a ball being found encysted in the lungs, but he did not know any thing of the history of the case as it happened in the course of dis- section. Wounds of the chest are often confounded, or rather complicated with those of the abdomen ; that is, a ball enters the chest and pierces the abdominal viscera: one instance of this has been seen; they are uniformly fatal. The treatment of gun-shot wounds in the lungs, will be precisely with the same intentions as those of more simple wounds. Copious bleedings in the beginning; they relieve the patient, and lessen the danger of hasmorrhage, and also inflannnation. If the inflammatory symptoms run high, they must be repeated at the discretion of the surgeon. Opium, to keep the patient quiet, should be freely given ; it diminishes the irritability and cough. Every thing taken should be cool; low regimen and perfect quiet ob- served. Dry lint may be laid on the surface of the wound, so as to check the discharge, which occasions an extravasation in the cavity of the thorax. When extravasation has taken place, an incision should be made into the chest, thus: the patient must be laid in a recumbent posture, leaning rather to the af- fected side. The integuments are to be drawn up with one hand, so that when replaced in their original situation, the opening in them may not be opposed to that made underneath through the intercostal muscle and pleura. An incision is to be made between two of the ribs through the integuments: at whatever point is fixed on, it must be made near to the su- perior edge of the lowermost rib of the two, so as to avoid the intercostal artery, N-ihich runs on the lower edge of each rib. The muscle is to be divided and the pleura exposed, into which a small opening is to be made, a canula introduced, and by the patient's inclining more on this side, the matter evacuated.