LECTURE XXVIII. S2S and a poultice applied twice; the wound was then dressed in as simple a way as possible; and on the 14th it was perfectly healed. Nothing further was done than I have detailed, and yet no secondary syphilis was observed after six months had elapsed. What does this case prove f Why, that allowing the matter to be gonorrhoeal, similar to what is mostly seen, (as there are exceptions to all rules) it was not capable of causing a venereal affection. If gonorrhoeal matter is applied to a wound or ulcer, will it produce syphilis ? I think not. If the matter of chan- cre IS applied to a scratch, or wound, it will cause every symp- tom of the disease locally and constitutionally. Will the matter of chancre, inserted into the urethra, cause clap ? I think it will produce a discharge. Why ? Because the effect of any irritating body on a secreting surface tends to do so; but ulce- ration would follow; and those claps that are seen sometimes so inveterate, I believe, are of this nature. I have reason to beheve a clap may be caused by connexion with a woman dur- ing the continuance of the catamenia, and I think it might be occasioned by fluor albus also. Women are sometimes so in- sensible to shame as to set no bounds to their depravity, and allow privileges to our sex which ought to be confined to cer- tain periods only; and from the want of requisite cleanliness'^ these discharges become extremely acrid and offensive. ON GONORRHCEA. Look round the habitable globe ; how few Know their own good ; or, knowing' it, pursue I This disease arises from the action of a morbid poison on a secreting surface, and is most commonly attended with exten- sive mflammation. The common seat of it in men is the ure- thra ; but it sometimes takes place on the prepuce and glans penis: in women the vagina, urethra, labia, clitoris, nymphs, the glans, &c. When it attacks the glans and contiguous parts it commences principally about the root of that body, where the cuticle is thinnest; it occasions soreness and tenderness in 7.