LECTURE IV. 63 red, it denotes the languid circulation in the part, and they are considered by no means of a healthy disposition. Their sur- faces are generally approaching to a point, and termed convex, and the smaller and more numerous such points are, the more health they indicate. With respect to absorbents, few can be discovered in their new structure, so that fresh formed granula- tions have bad absorbent surfaces. But this is not the case with old sores or ulcers, uhich readily take up any mercurial preparation that may be applied. On looking at granulations, they appear tender and endowed with great sensibility; this is the case, indeed, with regard to the skin, but it is not so in the other parts of the body ; the bones for exaniple, where, if granulations form after exfoliation has taken place, we find little, if any, sensibility adherent in them. To illustrate this, suppose a blow has been received, or a wound inflicted on some part of the cranium, and the integu- ments do not unite by the adhesive process, consequently this method by granulation ensues; but previous to this, a thin plate of bone is exfoliated. On touching the granulations, there will be no pain excited ; and cases have been known where it has not created any uueasinfess at all, even by pres- sure. The want of sensibility also is applicable to tendons and fascia, except when inflammation is present, which alters the case very materially. * There remains one very important observation to be made on the subject; xUiich is, that granulations applied to each other will readily unite; this is certainly very useful to be known, and is of great service to the practitioner. After am- putation, if the adhesive process should not succeed, by bring- ing the granulations on one side to those of the other side of the skin, they may be made readily to unite 5 but one caution is here necessary to be observed, namely, that care should be taken that the union thus effected is not partial, as here a sinus would be formed extremely troublesome to get rid of.