82 LECTURE VI. down, and the remedies will be found, by experience, to be those mostly successful; it will now be proper to state in as brief a manner as possible, what other ap'plications and treat- ment have been advised by authors. Pare, Haldanus, and many others, think no injury will arise from puncturing the vesicles, which they countenance; but the author recollects a case, in practice, which directly bears on this point. Mrs, Baskerville scalded her left foot rather extensively; the vesicles were punctured, and the fluid discharged; but whether there was some peculiarity in her disposition and habit of body, or to whatever cause it may be attributed, so as to leave the punc- turing the vesicles totally out of the question, a mortification ensued, and was restrained with difficulty: this case was tedi- ously prolonged, but she perfectly recovered in the course of some time. Now what will Par6 and others say, if the me- dical practitioner (a house pupil of John Hunter's, and a man as capable of practising as any provincial surgeon in the king- dom) attributed the principal mischief originally to the bad practice of puncturing the vesicles, which he most decidedly dis- approved of. Sir James Earle recommends ice, or the coldest water, made of a solution of sal ammoniac and saltpetre, to be applied either by means of hnen, or that old favourite of the public, in these cases, scraped raw potatoes. Mr. Cleghorn, of Edinburgh, extols vinegar in burns and scalds, to be applied a little warmed; and it must be allowed, that the fact of Hun- ter's deeming a communication to this eff^ect, from Mr. Cleg- horn, of sufficient importance to be published in the Medical Facts and Observations, contributed, not a httle, to raise the estimation of this remedy; the vinegar to be applied till the pain ceases, then a poultice, and afterwards powdered chalk. It is not a little curious, that two remedies, diametrically oppo- site to each pther, should have attracted public attention, near- ly at the same time. Sir James Earl's, of ice, 8cc.; and Dr. Kentish, stimulating applications; and I too well recollect Mr. Abernethy's remarks on tetanus, ever to be foigotten; they were to this effect:-Mr. Abernethy tells you, that if the warm bath is serviceable in tetanus, the cold one, reasonmg a priori, cannot be so, although authors would endeavour to re-