LECTUEE XIII. ally one part, pass in the elevator at that part, and disengage the piece of bone. I think, from what I have seen, that it is advantageous to have a small circle, and to take care that it is of an equal depth, to be certain of which it must often bo examined with a probe. The operation of trephining shonld not be done in a hurry; as the probability will be greater of wounding the dura mater, the surgeon ought to be very cool and steady. When the portion of bone is removed, if we are looking for extravasa- tion of blood, we shall find it escape immediately, if there is any present, but if none is perceived to escape, we are not warranted to proceed any further, according to the opinions of some of our best operating surgeons, although 1 have my doubts of the propriety of this practice. If the operation is performed with the view of elevating a depressed portion of bonl5 the treatment required after it has been effected is very simple; bring the edges of the wound together, and lay some lint over the part, and in the course of a day or two a poultice ought to be applied, and the subsequent treatment will be. that of a common wound. I must observe, when we are certain, from the symptoms, that there is matter under the dura mater, in such a case, I say, it may be proper to make a cautious puncture with a lancet, as the risk will not be greater, and the patient certainly will have a better chance for his life. The sensation of fluctuation, often apparent to the feel, is apt to lead many into error, as after an opening has been made no fluid could be discovered, and this has happened in several instances; therefore it requires par- ticular attention to be given to the concurring circumstances, before we make a puncture. The scalp is often afi'ected with erysipelas after an injury of the head, and which inflammation extends to the face, owing to an mjury done to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle. In this case, it will be proper to make several openings, and apply bandages all around the head, except at those parts opened, from which there must be a discharge kept up. When matter forms under the tendon of the tCHiporalis, it is advan-: tageous to make a longitudinal incision early. N 2