396 LECTURE XXXIl. and he may be allowed to swing it gently backwards and for- wards at first, the extent of motion may be increased daily, which will prevent the stiffness. FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON. The treatment of this fracture must resemble that recom- mended of the patella. When the arm is bent, the detached portion will be found from two, to two and a half inches drawn up the arm by the action of the triceps extensor cubiti; but if the arm is extended, the small piece will be only half an inch dis- tant from the ulna: the arm, therefore, must be extended, and the portion of bone must be brought as nearly into contact as possible, by a bandage properly applied. Passive motion of the arm must be used in this case likew ise. CERVIX FEMORIS. I This accident almost uniformly happens to old people. It may be ascertained by the surgeon not being able to feel a crepitus, and, by the limb being shorter from an inch to an inch and an half, whilst the foot is turned outwards: this suflSciendy distinguishes it from dislocation. There is pain experienced at the trochanter major, owing to the psoas and iliacus interims muscles being put on the stretch. The thigh bone can be brought fojward towards the abdomen, which cai not be done to any extent when the bone is dislocated. If this fracture takes place within the capsular ligament, the ptrson must re- main lame for life, as the bone will never unite again, and thus the patient is deprived of all power of using it:—However, if it is not very heavy, in the course of time, he may be able to walk with the assistance of a stick: but if this is not the case, he must resort to crutches. If the fracture has happened on the outside of the capsular ligament, the bone will unite again, but the existence of a frac- ture at this part is a very rare occurrence; it is thought not to occur from an accident. In fifty cases of fracture at the cervix, in two only of these did it occur on the outside of the jomt; a trifling circumstance will often produce this formidable fracture, 3 /