326 LECTURE XXVIIl. the corpus spongiosum next is affected, adhesions take place iu it, constituting that most troublesome sensation, the cordee, which produces an incurvation of the penis. The lacunas are soon affected, and an obstruction takes place in them, and it frequently happens that an abscess forms, which bursting, the contents are discharged per urethra : it generally happens near the fraenum, but there are instances where they form near the bulb, and in this situation they are dangerous, in consequence of the probability of the contents being effused into the cellu- lar membrane. When the inflammation extends along the ure- thra, opposite to the acceleratores urinae, spasmodic contractions here' occur every four or live minutes, extending to the peri- neum, and often accompanied with an inflammatory stricture m t^e urethra, which is easily known by the flow of urine being often suddenly impeded. When the inflammation extends as far as the membranous part of the urethra, those ducts which open into the latter, take on the disease, as the vasse deferentiae, and which, extending along their course to the testicle, produce hernia humoralis, prior to which, however, there is considerable pain felt in perineo. Treatment. It was formerly the custom to administer mercury in this complaint, under the idea that it was a similar disease to syphi- lis • but this notion being now completely refuted, this medicine had better never be prescribed, even when given with the m- tention of acting as a purgative alone. It is much better to depend upon other medicine to induce this effect. Inflammatory Stage.-A purgative composed of six grains of cathartic extract, should be given every night, and a powder composed of the sulphate of magnesia 3ij. nitre ^j. iwice daily. The patient should drink plentifully of barley water, mucilage of gum arable, linseed tea, &c.: the best drink I know of is composed of gum arable, linseed and mtre boiled in a quantity of water. He should live very abstemious, avoid- ino- fermented or spirituous liquors, spices, &c.: Uie best be- verage is soda water. In every stage the bowels must be kept open by mild laxatives; and if the patient is of a full plethoric