LECTURE XXIV. has recommended a ligature to be put on, in order, as he infers, to produce sloughing: but if you do this around the sphacelated part, it is of no use, as no ulceration will be effected, and if it is applied on the living portion, you reproduce stricture, and consequently, render the operation nugatory. In a patient under Mr. Chandler's care, it was found that the man was at first materially relieved, but after a ligature had been put on, on the above principle, symptoms of strangulation appeared, which proved fatal in eight days. It is very different fron\ tying a single artery, and I may he^e add, that in a case where no ligature was applied, and the mortified portion was left to slough off of itself, a great deal of time was required for the accomplishment of this process: the subject was a woman.^ Inflammation came on after the operation, the omentum ap- peared at the wound, and gradually became removed, and it was from six to seven weeks before she recovered. The fact is, that unless the powers of the constitution are very strong and vigorous, there is a probability of your patient's becoming exhausted. The operation being now detailed, with the necessary ob- servations that ought to guide you in its performance, the in- teguments are to be brought together by ligature and adhesive plaster, and a recumbent posture must be strictly enjoined, for fear of another descent of the gut, which actually occurred in a patient of Mr. Cline's, in his attempting to remove to the night-stool; it was, however, soon returned. Opium used to be given, to allow irritation; but, in my opinion, from wha^ I have observed in the practice of the London hospitals, me- dicine is attended with little advantage. Purgative medicines ought not to be directly administered, as the bowels are gene- rally lax at first; if, however, it is deemed necessary to pro- cure alvine evacuations, it should be attempted by means of a glyster, ct? medicines given hy the mouth are apt to excite vo- ipiting. Some immediately set to work after the operation is per- formed, to procure evacuations from the bowels by means of castor oil, common salts, &c. until every doubt has ceased of inflammatiop of the bowels and peritoneum. Keep your 4