152 LECTURE XIII. from a young girl, about twelve years of age, imprudently riding to water a young colt, who soon began prancing, and threw her off, and she fell on the side of her head. She re- mained insensible; and as there was ao wound, it was con- cluded the mischief proceeded from a fracture. The gentle- man whom I served the remainder of my apprenticeship with, was written to, (he was the Astley Cooper of that part of the country) to use all expedition, and bring his case of instru- ments to trephine. I accompanied him in a post chaise; pro- bably the sequel might be omitted ! but no, the case made too great an impression on my mind ever to be erased ! we did not get there till eleven at night; all was prepared; the fa- ther, mother, &c. raving at the idea of the danger their child was in, as every preparation had already been made, and their minds had been prepared for the worst; when lo! the tumour was examined and the child immediately bled, (faith, I do not remember what was the treatment before our arrival) ; an ope- ration was not deemed at all necessary ; the girl recovered her sensibility, and by the application of sal ammoniac dissolved in vinegar, Mr. Pott's favourite remedy, the tumour was ab- sorbed. The silly figure the two gentlemen cut was inde- scribfible. The only observation made use of, was, you were disposed to act rather too precipilatelz/, gentlemen—ihat's all. I remember they gave us an excellent supper, and 1 believe I got " i7ierri/" for the second time only during my apprentice- ship. The two gentlemen were young, and an unguarded exr pression might have damned them entirely ! I dare avow they will not commit themselves, at least in a similar manner agam. A fine opport^nity this was to shew a little delicate supe- riority ; and what would some medical men (to their shame be it spoken) give for such a case to display their self-imports ance ? Nothing is more commendjvble than liberality m our profession. ON INJURIES OF THE CRANIUM, 8lC, The general symptoms consequent to an injury of the crar v\\im are Ifiss of sense and volition: the parts belpw.become