298 LECTURE XXVr. returnable. Should this division not succeed, carry one finger behind Poupart's ligament, and its posterior edge will be found to be the seat, which is turned back upon the pubis, called Gimberuat's ligament. DIAGNOSIS. A psoas abscess has the same seal as femoral hernia; it comes down on the inner side of the femoral vein, between it and the pubis; it also dilates by coughing, and though in the recumbent posture it is not completely returiiable, yet in some degree it is so : it may be distinguished from hernia by its being accompa- nied with considerable paift in the loins, and the impossibility of returning it all into the abdomen; besides, should any doubt exist, wait a little while, when, from the considerable enlarge- ment of the abscess its nature will be obvious. With a bubo, femoral hernia is liable to be confounded; and a patient in one of the London hospitals, actually was poulticed by a surgeon, who imagined the tumour to be a bubo; the operation for her- nia was subsequently performed. In another case, an openmg was made through mistake, and the patient had an artificial anus. On the other hand, I have read of a truss having been applied on a bubo, which is equally as ridiculous. Treatment. If the hernia is reducible the oblique truss ought to be ap- plied, which frequently succeeds in preventing future descents. If rcry large^ the same kind of truss as directed for direct inguinal hernia. Femoral hernia is seldom cured by wearing a truss, however ingeniously constructed, owing to the variation of position in Poupart's ligament, being sometimes increased, at others lessened in its diameter, in consequence of the pow- erful action of muscles. If the hernia \s irreducible, and the contents consist of omentum only, an oblique truss will answer with the alteration of having a kind of cap, so as to make slight pressure and at the same time defend the hernia: the pad is to be put on after a time: by this arrangement the hernia will be much diminish-