313 LECTURE XXVII. pelvis by means of a bandage or girth passed betwixt the thighs, between the spine of the ilium and trochanter major; secure it with a handkerchief;—without attending to the fixing of the pelvis all elForts to reduce it will prove abortive. After this is accomplished, fasten another towel or girth, smaller, round the thigh, above the knee ; to this girth are straps to fix the puUies, which are to be applied, and make extension in a gradual man- ner; the direction of the situation of the bone being obliquely upwards and backwards, the other thigh is not to be crossed by making the extension at right angles, but it should be made across about two-thirds or three-fourths the length of the bone downwards, and by using this degree of obliquity its reduction will be accomplished. Repeat the extension rather than use any very considerable force, several times, especially if the bone has been long out. The pullies are not absolutely necessary. Bleeding, previous to the attempt, is useful and mostly requir- ed, and if the patient is very muscular an injection of tobacco will be found beneficial; also a few grains, in doses, of antimon. tartar, to excite nausea, is useful, as they tend very much to facilitate the necessary exertions. Tlie second species of dislocation of the thigh is downwards into the foramen ovale. The head of the os femoris, in this accident, descends into the cavity of the foramen ovale—the trochanter major is drawn backwards by the obturator muscle. The appearance of the limb is much longer than before, one and a half inch or two inches and a quarter. The knee and foot are turned out, the body drawn forward, and the patient is incapa- ble of straightening himself; this is occasioned by the action of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles,—they pull the spine downwards. This dislocation is the most easy of reduction. If recently it has happened, secure the pelvis by means of a bandage round the pubic region ; the surgeon is then to go to the outside of the limb and push it inwards. Supposing it has been out for some time, confine the pelvis by means of a strap ; also place a bandage around or across the regio pubis. The first strap is to be applied between the pelvis and thighs; when these are applied push the bone inwards.