LECTURE XXIX. 350 this is seldom attendant on permanent stricture, and when it does occur, there is generally some other cause superadded besides the stricture. The urine is mostly of the colour of whey, which denotes the existence of an inflammatory affection of the mucous membrane lining the bladder. Persons who have this complaint, have also, in most instances, a gleety dis- charge, colouring the linen like semen: if he has been an in- temperate liver, or, in other respects, irregular in his mode of living, the discharge will be of an opake yellow colour, arising from the inflammation running higher. Fistulce will fre- quently arise when the disease exists in several parts, mostly in the perineum, though sometimes at the fore-part of the scrotum. The cause and progress of this disease is thus: when a bad stricture is present, the part of the urethra beyond the stricture becomes enlarged, while the forepart is diminished in size and diameter: the part above dilates, and at length gives way, which allows of the extravasation of the contents of the bladder into the surrounding cellular substance; this, by inducing inflammation, causes the formation of matter, which generally bursts externally, though not always, allowing the urine to pass by the same aperture from the bladder. The disease from stricture, does not confine itself to the urethra alone. When a stricture has existed for some time, the blad- der becomes affected and thickened, in consequence of the continued irritation set up in the urethra, inducing an almost constant inflammation, and also from the continued action of the muscular fibres of this viscus, by which they are also in- creased in their thickness. When disease of the bladder is present, it is denoted by an uneasy sensation in the regio pubis, and a sense of fulness in this part. On examination after death, the mucous membrane is found to be thickened and streaked with bloody marks, arising from inflammation—it is also oedematous. A secretion of coagu- lable lymph takes place, which causes the wheyey appearance in the urine. When this symptom makes its appearance, the constitution generally becomes affected with febrile symptoms, similar to an intermittent, consisting of a more or less severe paroxysm, recurring at uncertain intervals, now and then pre-