231 LECTURE XIX^ state of it: for we find in the latter case the very contrary happens, viz. the sooner the water is discharged, so in propor- tion will relief be found. During the passing of the urine there is often an interruption to its flowing regularly, and it stops of a sudden. It is discharged also when in as relaxed a posture as possible, and this is principally effected by relaxing the abdo- minal muscles, therefore it is, these patients are found bending their bodies forward, resting upon their arms, &c. so that when a surgeon has once seen a patient in this situation, he cannot hesitate a moment about the nature of the disease, when the other symptoms are also present. In the advanced stages of the disease the urine becomes of a ropy purulent appearance, indi- cating a diseased state of the mucous membrane lining the bladder. A spasmodic contraction of the abdominal muscles is now taking place, attended with violent rigors, succeeded by heat, and profuse sweating, similar to the paioxysms in an in- termittent fever. The bladder of one who long has been the subject of calculus is much contracted in its dimensions and less capable of retaining its proper quantity of urine : this state of the bladder, even if it were satisfactorily ascertained, previous to the operation, yet ought by no means to prevent its being, performed, as many cases of this kind turn out extremely well: the only thing to be observed is a more particular care in passing the gorget, or whatever other instrument is used, as it is some- what more difficult to operate. When the irritability is great, inflammation and suppuration of the internal coat is the most probable result; the ureters and kidnies participate in the irri- tation, the patient loses his rest and appetite, and becomes emaciated and exhausted, and death finally closes the scene. It would appear that the most frequent and indeed princi- pal proximate cause of the formation of calculi, is an excess or superabundance of uric acid, which becomes deposited from a peculiar disposition of the fluids. It is also thought, that the tartar contained in wine may be the cause of calculous matter occasionally ; so also may be enumerated water, if it contains sulphate and carbonate of lime in excess. Some assign here- ditary predisposition —- sedentary employments, as well as the 2