LECTURB XXV. HERNIA CONGENITA. I am not aware that this species of hernia was at all satis- factorily explained till the time of Dr. and Mr. Hunter, in 1762, and 1764. It is founded upon the descent of the testes, which generally takes place between the seventh and eighth month, from the abdomen into the scrotum : it is in conse- quence of the tunica vaginalis not being closed prior to birth, that this kind of hernia takes place ; a portion of the intestine gets down from the efforts of the child in crying, the omentum rarely reaches so far; here the tunica vaginalis is the hernial sac. In the descent of the testicle, a portion of peritoneum is carried before it into the scrotum, which' receives the name of the tunica vaginalis reflexa; independent of that peritoneal investment it originally had while seated in the loins, which is called the tunica vaginalis propria. It must appear evident, that the communication with the abdomen remains open, and does not become closed as is mostly the case before, or at all events, soon after birth, so that this cavity remains unobliterated. It does not so frequently occur on the right as on the left side. It is not always observable at or soon after birth. Whenever it happens at a remote period of life, it must be in consequence of some great exertion, and also from the cicatrix, by which the original opening was shut up, being naturally weak. The time it generally is discovered is some months after birth. Mr. Hey saw a case in a young man sixteen years of age, whose right testicle had descended but a short time previous to his being subject to this disease. Mr. Lawrence details a case of an infant, of the tender age of fourteen months, having a strangu- lated bubonocele, so that we are not, in every case of rupture in early life, to conclude it to be congenital, although, generally speaking, we should be correct. This species takes the course of the spermatic chord, with the epigastric artery on the inner side. The diagnostic marks are more difficult to be defined in this,' than in the other species of hernia,, from its being so deep- ly buried. On attempting to grasp the tumour, it has the feel of a thickened chord; and the testicle is so involved as to be very indistinct, and generally somewhat wasted, so as to lead the 4