266 LECTURE xxni. the space between the uterus and rectum. The perineal be- tween the bladder and rectum in men, between the vagina and rectum in women. The tht/roideal, or hernia foraminis ovalis, when it protrudes through the obturator ligament, descending between the obturator muscles. The Ci/stocele, when the uri- nary bladder is included. The iscJiialic, (which is very rare) when at the ischiatic notch. The phrenic, when protruding through the diaphragm : and the mesenteric and mesocolic, when through the mesentery, or mesocolon. If the contents of the hernial sac are only intestine, it is called enterocele, or intestinal hernia: if omentum only, epiplocele, or omental; and if both, entero-epiplocele, or compound hernia : with respect to its other contents, the names are derived from the contained viscus ; if the stomach, gastrocele; if the liver, hepatocele; if the urinary bladder, cystocele, &c. The con- tents may be distinguished from each other by a careful exami- nation : if omentum only, there is an irregularity in the feel, and the tumour is commonly of an oblong shape: if intestine, it forms a more smooth, round, and elastic substance, and appears as if distended with air, which it is. When both omen- tum and intestine are included, the same rounded form presents itself, as if intestine only ; but by examining more minutely the irregularity of the omentum is perceived. Thus, so far the contents may be known ; the other parts occasionally occurring in hernia are not so easily to be discriminated; if a portion of the urinary bladder, the feel is denser, and by the account of the patient an opinion may be formed. In the morning when he rises he finds the tumour very large, which is the contrary to the others; and at night it will be scarcely perceptible. This is easily accounted for. The patient,has a considerable quan- tity of urine collected in his bladder in the morning, hence the distension, while previous to his going to rest the urine is eva- cuated; and thus, the cause of the diminution is obvious. OF INGUINAL HERNIA. This species of hernia has been divided into four different kinds ; the most frequent of which is the ohliqucy which takes