LECTUHE V. 67 designated : " The margin of die surrounding skin being jagged, and terminating in an edge, which is sharp and undermined, the bottdm being made up of concavities of different sizes, with no distinct appearance of granulations, but a whitish spongy sub- stance, covered with a thin ichorous discharge; the surface readily bleeds, and is painful. Ulcers which occur on the malleolus externus, on the ligament of the patella, and the anterior surfaces of the tibia, are generally of this kind; and Mr. Home conceives that the periosteum is the seat of this ulcer." The treatment most generally pursued consists in the appli- cation of steam, or vapour from warm water, or with a small quantity of vinegar or spirits added to it; fomentations of poppy heads, of hemlock, or of opium, are very serviceable—a decoction of the poppy heads, and of the recent hemlock dried, if it can be procured, are to be employed. A striking instance of the good effects of dried hemlock made into a decoction, in these irritable ulcers, the author saw in the person of an in- valided officer of rank in the country. The hemlock was col- lected in the summer, and carefully dried, and the old veteran did not feel satisfied unless he had an ample stock regularly in the house by him. It is but fair to remark, this occasionally failed in procuring him accustomed relief, and then he was obliged to have recourse to a. watery solution of opium. A decoction of wormwood or camomile is recommended by Mr. Home. Poultices made of marshmallows, or linseed, are useful; but that so frequently used in town, the catTot poultice, seems to agree as well as either; but it is sometimes preferred to mix linseed with it, in the proportion of one part of the latter to five of the former: a change in the applications will be very advantageous in some cases; and the principle of this occurrence is compared with that by which change of air, even to a less salubrious one, often improves the health. It is advisable that a heavy poultice should not lie on the ulcer, but the ulcer rather on it. Mr. Home remarks on this subject, that carbon pow- dered has been found useful. Ointments are not proper ap- plications ; and when warmth has been found hurtful, cream G