lECTUKE I. (21 that is, rather less than one-twentieth heavier than water : Dr. Juriii 1054 to 1000, being rather more. Water at 32° is con- gealed into ice, even quicksilver becomes solid at a certain tem- perature. The blood coagulates without diminution of tempe- rature ; if received into a vessel at 96° or 98° equal to its heat, it coagulates equally quick ; at 40° it does so later than at 98°; at 100° sooner than at 40°; if stirred continuallyit still does so as well. Restorair were thought to be the cause; but it coagulates when not exposed to either. Mr. Huson laid the jugular vein of a rabbit bare, and applied two ligatures, at some distance between which a quantity of blood was included: it was left alone 2| hcJurs, when, on examination, only -f of the fluid was coagulated. It coagulates when in a bladder or gold-beater's skin. Rest does not produce it; air facilitates it. Eight minutes is commonly the time it takes to coagulate :—What a wise provision of nature ! When blood escapes in violent hemorrliages the mouths of the vessels become plugged up by the coagulation, and the bleeding prevented; hence, in uterine hemorrhage, or indeed, in any other kind of excessive bleeding, nothing can be more favour- able than syncope or fainting, which facilitates, or rather gives an opportunity for this formation. By no means permit or use stimuli in any shape in these cases, as they occasion in- creased action, which would remove the coagula from the mouths of the bleeding vessels, and the hemorrhage would be renewed ; rather let your patient be kept cool, and perfectly quiet. Com- mon salt and the neutral salts prevent its speedy coagulation. Coagula are found in many parts of the body; in aneurismal tumours coagulable lymph is effused in large quantities, and this appears to be gradually forming strata, having a lamellated ap- pearance, resembling the layers of an onion. I shall enter more fully on the nature and properties of coagulable lymph as I proceed in the series : it will be here only necessary further to observe, that it is abundantly deposited under inflammation, and when there is no outlet it becomes organized, and occasionally it is seen to unite the pericardium to the heart, the pleura to the lungs, &c.; and where there is an outlet it peals off as in the bronchia, and is coughed up when people suppose they have brought up part of the lungs. The late Dr. Cheston, of n 2