189 LECTWHE XV. slderable ease, with the aid of a stick, and accomplished a walk of tliree quarters of a mile at one time, at the end of less than six months. He made no complaint of coldness in the liiiih. The event of this case is the more gratifying, as the man did not see Mr. Cooper until the tumour, which was very large, was actually livid; and the operation could not have been postponed without considerable risk : in proof, it may be added, on the sixth day following the sac burst, and discharged its contents. Securing the Carotid Artery.—It is necessary here to observe, than an aneurism of the aroli of the aorta, may and has been mistaken for a carotid aneurism. Allan Burns has stated, that this was first remarked by Mr. Astley Cooper, the appearance it assumes being somewhat similar. I do not remember, as far as my recollection serves me, of the carotid ^ artery being successfully tied till June, 1808, by Mr. Astley Cooper. The patient was a man, aged fifty: -he came into Guy's Hospital with a carotid aneurism, occasioning throbbing in the brain, and great pain on one side of the head, giddiness, hoarseness, cough, slight difficulty of breathing, sickness, &c. The swelling appeared to be near the acute angle made by the bifurcation of the common carotid, on the left side, under the angle of the jaw. The operation was attended with perfect success. This case is highly valuable, inasmuch as it is hitherto the only one which, as far as I know, the credit and character of the operation is supported—I mean its character in a medical sense. The practicability of the safe application and removal of the ligature, was put beyond doubt by the event of his first operation for the disease, some time previ- ously, on Friday, November 1st, 1805, o« Mary Edwards, aged 44. The aneurism was seated on the right carotid artery. On the twelfth the ligatures came away—on the twenty-first she died, and on dissection the aneurismal sac was found in- creased in size, highly inflamed, and containing a quantity of pus. Humphries, vv'hose occupation was that of a porter, the subject of the former operation, resided afterwards in Labour-in-Vain Court, Old Fish Street; he was quite well, and returned to his usual employment. The facial gnd tem-