LECTURE IX. Ill When the wound is large, what is recommended to be done ? fjict^ great variance exists on this point. Mr. John Bell recommends one stitch only, and the ligature to be attached with the gut to the external wound. Mr. Travers tells us, that the absolute contact of the everted surfaces of a divided intestine, in their entire circumference, is requisite to secure the animal from the danger of abdominal effusion—and that wounds amounting to a direct division of the canal are irrepar- able, and invariably fatal. Dr. Smith, of Philadelphia, tried Mr. John Bell's plan on dogs; but in both instances they died from extravasation of faces in the abdomen. Mr. Travers made the same experi- ment on four dogs, and he allowed the intestine to retract into the abdomen. Mr. Travers made one experiment with three stitches, cut the threads away, and returned the gut, being in all five cases, which were ftital; thus Dr. Smith and himself seem, as far as inferences can be drawn from the brute crea- tion, to controvert Mr. John Bell's plan. Longitudinal wounds must evidently be easier repaired than transverse, and the cause Mr. Travers assigns is, that they maintain a state of approximation by their longitudinal fibres resisting the action of the circular. From what Mr. Travers has premised, he advises stitching a bowel at as many points as possible; now from the following experiments this does not at all seem necessary. Mr. Astley Cooper repeated an experiment made by Duvergers, in which he had succeeded, on a dog—the interrupted suture was used. The trachea of a calf was included in the gut, and three stitches were employed to bring the divided intestine into contact; on the fifteenth day he killed the dog, and found the union com- plete. Mr. Cooper made another similar one, omitting the trachea of the calf, and the animal did well. Dr. Thompson divided the small intestine of a dog, and used five stitches- he cut the ends of the ligatures off, and returned the gut; the wound externally was secured with one stitch—and he also succeeded. Dr. Thompson repeated the experiment, and in six weeks he killed the dog, when it became apparent that the ligatures employed would make their way into the intestine,