66 LECTUllE V. covered with a scab; and it will also be proper here to remark, in his work on this subject, that he discountenances tHe em- ployment of poultices. The subject will now be resumed. The 1st impediment is, when granulations arise above the edges of the skin, and are too luxuriant, forming what is com- monly called fungus flesh ; here bandages are j)roper, and even a thin sheet of lead applied will be found Hseful: but if this plan does not arrest their further progress, it will be necessary to have recourse to caustic applications, as the lunar caustic, which should only be applied round the edges; any furlher extension of the caustic is unnecessary; afterwards cover the part with dry lint. The 2d obstacle to healing is, when the granulations are too languid, and have a glossy aspect; the coagulable lymph deposited is not rendered vascular, which gives them that semi- transparent appearance ; it marks a languid constitution and want of energy in the vascular system, so that the action is greater than the person is able to support; these granulations grow with greater rapidity than in the healthy ulcer ; they are larger, ajid do not pos- sess that firmness in texture. It will be here necessary to improve the constitution by tonics, such as bark and steel, and allow a generous diet. Stimulating ointments will be required to rouse the parts to action, and the best will be found to be the red nitrate of quicksilver, from 5 to 10 grs. mixed with an ounce of lard : vitriolic lotions may also be used : two grains of the zinci sulphas to an ounce of water, or the diluted nitric acid, in the proportion of two drops to an ounce of water; a tight roller should also be applied, as increasing the vigour of the circulation, and also giving due support, and is effectual in producing a determination of blood to the parts ; and Mr. Home here very justly remarks that ulcers which heal while the patient is walk- ing about, are not so apt to recur as those which heal while at perfect rest. 3dly, An inflamed state of the parts, which will prove an impediment to the healing process:—here poultices and fo- mentations may be recommended, rest should be enjoined, and the bowels kept open. 4ihly, Irritable ulcers, according to Mr. Home, are thus