LECTURE XXIX. 337 the surgeon's next attention must be directed to the stricture, as while it remains in its original state the fistula can never be cured. For this purpose practitioners employ the bougie, and the caustic is far preferable to the common one. It sometimes happens, that the stricture shall be entirely removed, and yet it is found impracticable to heal the fistula : under such circum- stances the flexible metallic catheter should remain in the blad- der, and the patient directed to lie as much as possible in an horizontal position. The catheter should not be suffered to remain any great length of time in the bladder, as the urine will act upon the metal, so as to corrode and break it, and instances are on record when it was requisite to perform an operation for the removal of portions of the catheter thus confined in the bladder. It is better, therefore, to suffer it to remain in the bladder only a certain length of time, then remove it, and in^ troduce another: three or four days will be the best space. If the fistula does not heal under this treatment, applications to the part may be useful, such as a gentle solution of the hydrarg. muriat. thrown up the fistula by means of a syringe. A case happened where the abscess burst and formed a connexion between the urethra and rectum ; here the plan to be adopted must consist in removing the stricture, and the constant intro- duction of a catheter, or else an operation must be attempted similar to lithotomy, at the commencement, and for a time form a fistula in perineo. The grand intention to be kept in view in treating fistula in perineo, is to restore the passage of the ure- thra; when this fails, the sinuses must be laid open. SPASMODIC STRICTUKES. This species of stricture is rarely found unconnected with the permanent one. It may be known by its being only of a temporary duration; it is generally attended with a gleet. The patient is not conscious of any disease of the kind: feeling a more frequent inclination to void his urine than usual, and being foiled in the attempt, is the first thing that strikes his attention,; « is for the most part unattended with pain.. It is caused, when