S 2 LECTURE X\ll4 gjg appearance in its early stages, similar to carcinoma in other parts. The disease is perfectly incurable, and all remedies that are employed should be only of the palliative kind, and merely to afford temporary relief and comfort, as very little can be done in tliese cases. General remarks.—It is from mucous membranes polypi are found to grow generally; the nose, uterus, vagina, rectum, and the meatus auditorius externus, are where they are most frequently met with: the fleshy polypus of authors may be classed under the first description. Some mistake the hydatid polypus, and consider it a prolapsus of the Schneiderian mem- brane ; others term it the vesicular polypus ; but these may be considered as so many varieties when they exist: no descrip- tion can be laid down of a disease but what there will be found some variety in practice. Mr. John Bell thinks that there are never originally any malignant polypi existing in the nose; he attributes their assuming this character to the irritatioQ from the distension of the, swelling in its confinement in so close a passage ; and if this is the case, which I think very probable, I see no reason why in the early stages they might not be re- moved with perfect safety. ON DROPSY OF THE ABDOMEN. This disease is of two kinds, the ovarial and the peritoneal; the former called the encysted, the latter ascites. The peri- toneum is a membrane lining the whole cavity of the abdomen, and naturally exhales a fluid for moistening the viscera, and preventing friction, &c. Yarious causes may produce a mor- bid mcrease of this secretion, such as the enlargement of the hver, spleen,. &c.; any circumstance producing a torpid cir- culation ; also a scrophulous affection of the mesenteric glands; too liberal a use of spirituous liquors, as well as anxiety of mmd, may be also ranked among its other causes. The encysted dropsy often occurs in people of a good con- .stitution, and in this respect differs from ascites, which is com- monly the effect of a worn out constitution ; also in the ovarial dropsy it may commence very early in life, a.id yet the patient