4 406 LECTURE XXXIII. the former;—a teaspoonful of it may be given two or three times a day : it will be found very efficacious as a tonic. When theie is extravasation, and it is wishi-d to induce ab- sorption, the hydrarg. muriat.cuintinct. cinch, will prove service- able. Indeed, in every case of this description, much benefit may be derived from this medicine, particularly in scrophulous enlargements of the mesenteric glands, and glands, of the neck, indolent enlargement of the joints, or scrophulous ophthalmia. The quantity of the hydrarg. muriat. should be small, the one-sixteenth part of a grain twice a day will be enough. In this proportion it has not the specific effect of mercury, but acts merely as a tonic. The mineral solution has been recommended, and certainly has been given with advan- tage ; but those I have previously inserted, I should in- variably give the preference. ENLARGEMENT OF THE GLANDS. The reason why the glands in the neck are most frequently affected with scrophula is on account of their being more ex- posed to the vicissitudes of the weather : if they are cut into, when in an indolent state, unattended with redness, they will be found to contain a substance composed of coagulable lymph, imperfectly formed, mixed witli a small quantity of serum, which latter is increased if there is cutaneous inflammation to any extent. When the ulcerative process comes on, the colour of the skin is changed to a dark red, similar to that around ve- nereal sores, and which marks debility of the system. Some- times the whole gland will slough, but it is seldom that this takes place, as the powers of the constitution will not admit of it. These glandular enlargements sometimes destroy life ; in some, by the pressure of the tumour on the larynx ; in others, the ul- cerative process will surround the jugular vein, and cause an absorption of its coats, so that the matter will pass into the blood-vessels. A scrophulous enlargement of the bronchial glands is sometimes attended with the formation of calcareous matter. Dr. Curry has coughed up some of these concretions.