INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 11 find the friends in confusion, all hurry and alarm; you must possess great presence of mind, cahnly and immediately showing what is to be done, and you must be careful not to appear in the least agitated, but have a perfect command of yourself; this wives them confidence. What must they think of a man, who is equally confused with themselves ? It has been said, that a surgeon requires a lion's heart, an eagle's eye, and a lady's hand. In your determination, let this be your unerring rule-^Make the patient's case your own ; ask yourself whether, under simi- lar circumstances, you would submit to what you are going to advise him to do, for you cannot be guilty of greater cruelty than operating unnecessarily, or taking off a limb, unless con- vinced of its absolute necessity. If you follow this advice, de- pend upon it you will always act in an upright manner, worthy a man, and you will have no circumstance to upbraid yourselves with ever after. It ought to be pointed out to you, the best mode of study for the acquirement of a knowledge of the profession; and give me leave to tell you, there is no art which requires more attention than that which is chosen by so numerous a class yearly in this city for the future occupation of their lives. Nothing is so dear to us individually as our lives and our health, and surely nothing can be more important than the health and lives of those who are placed under our care. Bad, then, must that man be indeed, who can feed his ignorance on so sacred a de- posit ; and who will, with evident risk to the lives and feelings of his fellow creatures, continue the baneful practice (destruc- tive to those unfortunate victims who repose an unlimited confi- dence in him), and pursue a profession in which he must always be acting contrary to the true principles of our art. Hippocrates was the first who became acquainted with ana- tomy ; but, from his time to that of our celebrated countryman Harvey, we do not find that much progress was made in this knowledge. The natural horror excited at the sight of a dead body was great, and, combined with the superstition of the early ages, must have required uncommon fortitude in the early ana- tomists to vanquish; more particularly when popular prejudice 4