LECTURE XXVn. SIO pula while the puUies are in action : if it was not for this pre- caution of fixing the scapula, you would often pull the hu- merus away, instead of reducing it. You are now to make an extension of the arm by means of a napkin with pullies at- tached, directly outwards on a line with the side of the body, gradually extending the arm for fiye minutes, and then slacken them; if the reduction is not effected, put the napkin on 'as before, and proceed in the same gradual manner; for by a long continued extension, the resisting muscles become tired, and at last allow of the replacement of the bone. I have never seen this species of dislocation reduced without the assistance of the pullies, although very great force had previously been used. The third dislocation is backwards.—It is a rare occurrence. The head of the bone is felt under the spine of the scapula, resting on the dorsum of that bone. The sign is, the protu- berance which the head of the bone occasions in that situation. To reduce it, the scapula is to be fixed, and extension made directly outwards. Dislocations of the os humeri never happen without extensive rupture of the capsular ligament; this is never an impediment in their reduction: the difficulty consists in the resistance of the muscles, which should be overcome by address more thaa by effort. OF THE ~!ELBOW. The most common dislocation of this joint is when the ra- dius and ulna are thrown backwards, which will be perceived by a great protuberance in a situation rather farther up than the elbow is originally. The coronoid process of the ulna takes the place of the olecranon—the radius lies backwards on the OS humeri: the arm is straight, and the projection of the olecranon distinguishes it. Feel for the rotation of the radius, and if it is present, then that bone is not concerned in the dis- location. The mode of reduction is this: place yourself in a chair, letting your patient remain on the floor; then take hold of his arm, and place your knee in the bend of his elbow; then