LECTURE XIV. l69 pain. There are some diseases of a pulpy kind, liable, with- out some little attention, to be confounded with hydrocele, but may be easily distinguished by the feel, -for if the fluctuation be in a general state, it will be an hydrocele; and otherwise, if it is confined in a fixed spot: besides, the form of it is different from any hydrocele, by being very flat. There is another dis- ease which is often likely to be mistaken, that in which the tunica vaginalis contains blood, termed hematocele; this com- monly is the result of a blow : the tumour, in its first forma- tion, is sudden, of a solid texture, and of a pyramidal shape. The discrimiuatirfg marks are these: on elevating the tumour it will be found of great weight, not transparent, and on in- quiring into the case, it commonly will be found to have pro- ceeded from a blow, or a similar accident. As it is, however, in some degree liable to be confounded with an hydrocele, and also with that state of diseased testicle termed scinhiis, it is right to be certain, previous to the operation, to make an incir sion with a lancet, as from this small opening its . contents can be readily known, and no bad effect will result from it; whereas several fatal instances have happened from not strictly attend- ing and acceding to this mode; the operation having, without any previous opening with a lancet, been performed, by intro? ducing the trocar, supposing it to be hydrocele. The cause of hydrocele is an increased action in the vessels of the tunica vaginalis testis : this is proved by injection, when its vessels are found red and much enlarged, and in cutting open the tunic, a general blush is suftused over its surface; it has not this colour when injected in a healthy state. The ab- ^ sorbent vessels are also, in a diseased state, much increased in size, their diameter being about three times that in health. Diminislied absorption has therefore nothing to do with the formation of the disease; and the real cause of it is, that of the secretion, owing to an increased action of the vessels, ex- ceeding that of absorption. The treatment is either paliialive or radical; by the former only temporary relief is afforded, by the latter an endeavour made to produce an union of the coats of the tunica vaginalis, by means of the adhesive inflammation. If the constitution ig