LECTURE XXXIir. 415 DISTORTED SPINE. This was first accurately detailed hy Mr. Pott. The disease of the spine, by which a curvature is formed, arises in conse- quence of the absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that the spinous and articulating processes are left in statu quo, forming the posterior projection, which mostly takes place ; un- less the absorption goes on more laterally, when the distortion is in that direction. The degree of projection will depend on the number of vertebraj affected ; occasionally only one will be diseased: at other times many, and sometimes as large a num- ber as seven, are affected. It commences in the inter-verte- bral substance, extends to the bodies of the vertebrje, and ultimately destroys them; the consequence of which is, that pressure is made upon the spinal marrow, which will have the effect of a ligature, and produce a paralytic affection : but this differs materially from a common paralysis, as the irritation pro- duces a rigid contraction of the muscles of the lower extremi- ties, and this without any absorption of the bones of the spine ; this is caused by the effusion of coagulable lymph, in conse- quence of injuries particularly occurring : if the dorsal vertebra are the seat of this disease, the bladder is paralyzed, so that a retention of urine ensues; the rectum also loses its power, and Ihe faeces are expelled by the peristaltic motion of the i'ntes, tines alone : if the injury happens to the cervical vertebra, the arms either partially or entirely lose the power of action. This disease will very frequently continue for years, gradually taking on an adhesive process, and ultimately getting well, by allowing the adjacent vertebrae to come in contact with' each other. It is strongly recommended, by surgeon's instrument-makers, and even by some of the profession, to have an apparatus sp fixed as to keep the body of the patient in a natural position until anchylosis is formed. This practice is very wrong, as it is impossible for anchylosis to take place if the vertebra are pre- vented from coming in contact; but it serves well to fill their pockets, as it is not a trifle, I assure you, they charge fqr their mechamcal contrivances. This disease qfteq ends fatally, by provmg the cause of psoas abscesses.