LECTURE XIX. 230 is present in which this does not happen: the urine is some- times retained, producing ischuria, or when discharged, it is either accompanied with blood, mucus, or pus. It mostly (if not too large) descends into the bladder. Many instances have been known where it has remained in the ureter at its lower part. The best treatment in these cases will be to put the patient in a warm bath, and give doses of opium repeatedly, especially if the pain and irritation is violent. The patient should drink freely of soda water, and the state of the bowels will require particular attention, and castor oil will be found very advantageous, also warm clysters, as they act as fomenta- tions to the part. As soon as the stone has passed into the bladder, the symp- toms are nearly the same as when originally formed in it. The first thing the patient feels is an excessive smarting sensation about an inch in the urethra, opposite the fraenum; this is very unlike what a person experiences from slight causes ; the pain is exquisite, so as to be compared to a red hot iron instrument applied to it, and the patients will declare, after they have un- dergone an operation for the extraction of stone, that the pain excited by the latter is by no means equal to the former: there is seldom any uneasiness felt in the bladder itself, and it is only when the disease has long existed, that it takes place there and above the pubis.—The pain is much increased on any agitation of the body, as in stepping from one place to another suddenly. When the bladder is in an irritable state, change of posture will add to it, and even the riding in a carriage is not easily borne, much less riding on horseback. There will be a bearmg down of the rectum if the pain is great, so much so that the patient is unable to void his urine without at the same time going to stool. The urine is in most cases perfectly limpid, but in quantity less. After exercise blood is commonly mixed with it. This appearance goes oflf by the patient's remammg at rest: during the discharge of urine the pains are increased more and more as the evacuation draws to a conclusion, and still more so after the whole is passed, from the bladder con- tracting on the stone. This circumstance will tend in a great measure to distinguish a stone in the bladder from au irritable