LECTURE XVI. 205^ their ends better, as it is so simple, and easy, requiring only a moderate share of attention for its performance: I am sup- ported ill tliese remarks by unquestionable authority. On breaking down the cataract; or, as termed by Dr. Farre, an operation on the capsule.—This operation is also very simple, and one which does not expose the patient to a repetition, as that of couching does. It is to the late Mr. Saunders the profession is indebted for this mode, which he adopted and practised with very great success. I can only as- sert, if it is generally attended with the happy results I have witnessed, I should certainly give it the preference to couch- ing. It appears from Mr. Saunders's success, that out of sixty persons, lifty-two recovered their sight. The operation consists either in introducing the needle anterior to, and in fi'ont of the iris, or posterior; that is, behind that membrane— the pupil is to be dilated with a solution of the extract of bel-. ladonna, which will eifect its enlargement in from half an hour to an hour—the patient being placed in a convenient posture, and the precautions before expressed being attended to. When he performed this operation on young children, he was obliged to be aided by several assistants to keep the child steady, and he made use of an elevator, invented by Pelleir, which he in- serted under the upper eye-lid, while one of the assistants de- pressed the lower—by the moderate pressure instantly applied with the elevator, the eye was stationary. The needle here used was very slender, with a cutting edge from the shoulders to its point: I think Mr. Hey's needle would do equally well, or Professor Scarpa's, if shortened in length. It is to be in- troduced either through the cornea near its junction with the sclerotica in the anterior operation, or through the sclerotica a little behind the iris in the posterior—the point of the needle is to be directed to the centre of the dilated pupil, so as to punc- ture the middle of the capsule of the crystalline lens, and to lacerate a central portion of it equal to the size of the pupil in a natural state : if the lens was opaque, he used to rupture its texture with the needle ; but if a ^uid cataract, wounding the capsule was all he aimed at—if capsular, he did so with more freedom: thus the lens will escape into the anterior chamber