LECTURE Vlll. 100 carotid artery came away along with them, and the man died instantaneously, from the effect of the haemonliage. Punc- tured wounds of arteries produce every appearance of aneurism, ■and require the same operation. Arteries have three coats: the external, which is white, dense, and very elastic; the middle or thickest, composed of muscular fibres, arranged in a circular form ; and the internal, which is extremely thin and smooth, possessing, considering its delicate structure, considerable elasticity, and firmness in a longitudinal direction, but weak, and easily torn in the circular. We have ample proof of its vascularity, and it has been inferred that it is by no means destitute of sensibility. Arteries are connected with their sheaths, by means of fine cellular struc- ture : thus, when divided, they are capable of contraction as far as the first anastamosing branch, and retraction within their ■sheaths; they possess a similar structure to other parts of the body, being supplied with arteries, veins, nerves, and absor- bents ; hence they are liable to be as susceptible of change as \^ other parts of the body, and to be enabled, when injured, to repair that injury, by a similar process, by the adhesive in- flammation. When pressure cannot be employed or trusted to suppress hzemorrhage, ligatures become necessary. But for the imme- diate and suddenly arresting the profuse flow of blood, the ap- plication of a tourniquet will be required; it cannot, with safety, be continued long, and its extent of operation is con- fined to the limbs. Every surgeon ought to understand Hke form and method of applying this instrument, if on the lower extremity, the best place will be about one-third the length of the thigh downwards, as the artery will be here passing close to the bone, and consequently easily compressed. If the upper extremity, about fths downwards, on the inner side of the biceps muscle. Temporary pressure may be made in the groin, oii the femoral artery, by means of a key or something of the kind, and under the clavicle on the axillary artery also. From Dr. Jones's truly valuable work on hemorrhage, the intentions of applying ligatures are these:—To cut through •the internal and middle coats of the artery, and to bring the 4