130 LECTUKE XI. 3d regiment of Foot Guards, at the battle of Aboukir, under the gallant Nelson, received a shot through the pelvis, on one side, and it catne out on the outer side of the femoral artery, and fell into his pantaloons. The ball weighed upwards of three ounces: a glyster was thrown up a short time after, but the rectum being wounded, it came through the wound; the latter however soon closed; he recovered, and was some time ago in good health: the wound took place below the reflected portion of peritoneum. Wounds of the abdomen are rare, in com- parison to those of the chest, and this proceeds from the direc- tion troops are taught to fire being more elevated. Those that have had opportunities when abroad, after engagements, of seeing a vast number of gun-shot wounds, not less than 2500, have assured me, that not one of them was in the abdomen, but a great many in the chest. When the small intestines are wounded no fasces are discharged; there is a feeble quick pulse, dejected countenance, vomiting, with extreme pain and tension in the abdomen: if the large intestines are wounded, it is known by the stools being bloody, and the faeces are dis- charged at the wound as well as at the rectum; these latter are not so dangerous as wounds of the small; in some cases the same treatment will be advisable as in mortified strangulated hernia, when reduced, if the wound is confined to one only. Copious bleedings are proper, fomentations, &c. to produce separation—no cathartics are to be given—^^such diet should be allowed as produce little or no fever, and milk for this purpose will answer best. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN* Injuries of the skull or cranium, from this cause, are to be treated the same as produced from any other: if there be a de- pression of the bone, with a corresponding wound in the brain, you are to remove the depressed portion of bone, &,c. Symp- toms of compression seldom come on, granulations or adhesions take place, and the patient recovers. There is, however, a greater degree of danger from a gun-shot wound of this kind ihan/rom a common accident, for in it there is an eschar to