IJECTUKE XXXI. 367 Treatment. Mercurial frictions are to be immediately had recourse to, and chiefly depended on for the cure. One or two drachms of the ung. hydrarg. fort, may be rubbed in every night, and if this is employed in an early stage, generally speaking, nothing more will be required. I have here to remark, that in every case, previous to using mercury, it is most advisable to prescribe an active purge, and in this case it will have the effect of diminishing the inflamma- tion, and induce the absorption of the gland more readily. If after these means are had recourse to, the pain in the bubo in- creases, and the cuticle begins to look red, the mercury must be discontinued, and leeches applied; afterwards washing the part with the saturnine lotion very frequently : these means must be persisted in three or four days, by which time the probability is, that the inflammation will be reduced, when the use of mercury may be again resorted to. If, during the inflammatory stage, the frictions were to be continued, it would only serve to hurry on the ulcerative process. When it is found that these efforts are ineffectual, and that the bubo has commenced the suppurative process, which will be evinced by a circumscribed redness around the tumour,' with an evident fluctuation in it, desist from the use of the frictions; the reason is this, if mercury was still applied during the sup- purative inflammation, it always has the effect of rendering that inflammatory action unhealthy, and causes a sloughing ulcer. The case must now be treated by fomentation and poultice, locally, until the bubo is fit for opening, and discharges its con- tents; and by bark and wine, constitutionally, combined with a generous diet. I would again observe, the great secret in the treatment of these cases, consists in never giving mercury during the inflam- matory stage ; as this remark is of consequence, it deserves to be borne m mmd. When it subsides, mercury may again be employed, as a general rule, I should say, after the bursting, or openmg of a bubo, a week ought to elapse before it is recom- mended.