lECTURE XXil. 573 are now very higeniously made. If the openings ai e ext'endino- far back there is hb remedy, as nothing will lie in contact with the soft palat6 \Vithoiit irritating it. An ulcer in the fauces seldom occasions any alteration in the voice, or difference in tlie power of deglutition, provided no other part has been af- fected. The use of the before-mentioned remedies will be also proper when the larynx is diseased, but from the distance that It lies back, it is scarcely possible to apply any thing to it. VENEREAL ERUPTIONS. The character of these differ from that of other diseases of of the skm m many respects. The skin surrounding the erup- ttoh IS of a' 66pper colour, the sore is covered with a crust and on Its being rubbed off, a mixture of blood and' imperfectly formed matter will be formed. Irf addition'to these appear- ances, there is the same thickening surrounding the nfcer iii the skm and integiimerits, which ma.ks a chancre elsewhere atrd ^thlch exists only in venereal sores ; hence it is possible to discnniihate this species of cutaneous ulcer from every othei* kind to which the surface of the body is liable. The part upon which the eruptions first, fnake their appearance, is on the scaJp, in the form of scabs amottgst the hairs; next the face becomes the seat of the affection, then the breast, and after- wards other parts, as they are seated more or less distant from the course of circulation : the palms of the hands will occa- squally become affected with them, without the other parts of the hands or arms participating in the appearance. The whofe of ^ e back has been seen covered with these eruptions but them by the,r size, as they vary much in this respect ^ mos sTZ^.crT^'T''^'"^T —""y -t^itha'sC as a sixpence: when they are large and numerous they leave por ion.o eahhy skin insulated from the other heahvlt cle Toe e IS hltle or no pain attendant on venereal eruptions ui ess the patient IS of an irritable habit of body, in ^X'Z they prove painful at night; also when tire patient h^ been