244 LECTURE XX. the scirrhous: this is very rare, and the examples of it, in an extensive practice, have been very few. It begins in the body of the testicle, and the edges are much more hardened than in the centre, the whole composed of coagulable lymph. It gra- dually and slowly proceeds through the body of the testicle, and extends to the epididimis throughout its whole course; the spermatic chord becomes hardened, and the disease extends along its course till a swelling is produced in the loins. This disease being slow in its formation and progress, may be pre- vented from extension, by an operation before it has reached the spermatic chord, which may be known by the strong hard feel it assumes when affected—and this, in a great measure, distinguishes it from other diseases. In every case that has come to my knowledge, it was complicated with hydrocele; and when the water was drawn off, the testis presented a marbly feel: it occurs in old people after the virile powers are lost, generally about fifty years of age. There is great danger in operating when the spermatic chord is affected from inflam- mation extending into the abdomen, besides the liability of its being at the time, in communication with the glands in the loins. On cutting open a scirrhous testicle, its appearance is uniformly white, being full of coagulable lymph, perfectly solid : bony matter is sometimes found within a cartilaginous substance. The third disease, that I now come to, is what, till a few years ago, was called the pulp^ testicle, of a cancerous nature : Mr. Wardrop, Mr. Hey, and others who have written on this subject, have described it under the name of fungus hcema- iodes. It begins at the external part of the epididimis, at that part where it is applied to the testis; or, anatomically speak- ing, in the rseti, near the vasa efferentia. In the first place, coagulable lymph is thrown out, mixed with blood, in the tubuli semeniferi, perfectly distinct from the body of the tes- ticle. The disease soon makes its progress through the body of the latter, owing to the rapid absorption taking place in this disease more than that of scirrhus, the substance being applied to the mouths of the absorbents from its softer texture. Ward- rop describes its progress as slow, with no severe pain attend-