LECTURE XXX. S66 one, and the same to another, in the first and second attacks, and still the gonorrhoea was not diminished; the dread of stric- tures precluded his ever using injections of any kind. As to the gleet in women, it is still more difficult to say when it ceases to be infectious, as a female has clapped a man, though she had previously abstained from coition during a period of twelve months; and a case has been met with, where the time has been as long as two years. A man has infected his wife, who had a gleet for twelve months, and was absent from her so long. The seat of gleet is the same as gonorrhoea; the discharge is similar to the white of an egg in appearance, consisting of globular bodies contained in slimy mucus; but by intempe- rance, or riding on horseback much, or by venereal excitement, it will be completely changed, becoming yellow and opake. It often has its foundation in stricture, therefore, when this exists, the gleet cannot be cured until the cause of it is removed. It is not peculiar to weak or relaxed constitutions. The cure will consist in effecting a change in the action of the parts, and this may be attempted in three ways, constitutionally, locally, or sympathetically : and the power of medicines, taken internally, may be divided into specific, strengthening, and astringent. By specific are meant such medicines as produce a specific action on the parts ; these are the balsams, turpentines, cantharides, &c. Strengtheners are, bark, the salt of steel, sea-bathing, cold-bathing, &c. Astringents are, the bark in decoction, the sulphate of zinc, alum, lead, &c. The best general treatment is the exhibition of the bals. copaib. combined with the spir. sether. nitr. in equal proportions, or the bals. copaib. and the pulv. cinchon. lancif. made into an electuary. An injection must be used of the hydrarg. muriat. in solution, in the propor- tion of two grains to Ib.j. of water. It may be gradually in- creased in strength, if required. The pulv. lyttae gr. j; tere- binth, chio. gr. V. ft. pil. omne nocte sumendus is very useful. Another good injection is composed of cupri ammoniac, gr. x. aq 3ij. ft. An injection much used is made of the cupri sulph. gr. ij. aqua 5iv. If these injections should iiot have the effect of making a cure, they had better be left off, and a