257 LECTURE XXI. been erroneously mistaken for cancer, and is an affection gene- rally curable- It is what I would term an irritable tumour. It often oecurs in florid young women of sanguine tempera- ments, most frequently before marriage, and in those who have not had any children from the age of seventeen to twenty-one, when the passions are strong, and call for desires that are not satisfied. The discriminating marks between this disease and scirrhus are two-fold; first, its exact limits cannot be exactly observed, i. e. where the tumour ends and the glandular sub- stance begins, as can be known in scirrhus; and, secondly, an extreme tenderness to the touch, even from the slightest pressure, and this not only for the moment, but is prolonged for hours afterwards; yet there are no marks of external inflammation, no redness of the skin, &c. This disease is capable of being remedied, but from the want of knowledge of the case, it is often unnecessarily the subject of removal. As this affection originates at, or soon after puberty, the remedy I should recom- mend, and one which has been known several times to be attended with complete success, is Dr. Griflaths's mixture. A stimulating plaster should be made use of, such as the empl. lytharg. comp., the empl. ammon. comp., or even the empl, saponis. The breast is to be kept warm by means of flannel, fur, or by a bladder of warm water occasionally renewed. Change of temperature aggravates the disease. It is from the cure of this complaint that certain practitioners, some profes- sed quacks as well as others, have arrogated to themselves the skill and credit of having cured cancerous affections; but prac- titioners of credit and respectability ought not to be cajoled by such puffers ; as there is actually no remedy yet found out capa- ble of eradicating the latter disease. In opening the breast after removal of an irritable tumour, the common appearance it presents is a little thickening of the glandular substance, owing to the arrangement and nature of the coagulable lymph effused.