LECTURE XII. 142 a young healthy man, attributed the pain he felt in his right arm, hand, and shoulder, to rheumntism, being unconscious of the injui-y he had received; a gradual feeling of uneasiness, loss of appetite, oppression from wind in his stomach, and a sense of stricture in the oesophagus, succeeded to the pain in his arm. The symptoms which followed were those generally described: he lived only eleven hours after his admission into the hospital. His agitation was extreme, his countenance anxious : when spoken to his sentences were interrupted : his thirst was urgent, but the spasm brought on by deglutition gave him a dread of liquids. Under the effort to drink, two people with difficulty held him in his bed : his skin was cool and natural to the touch, but exquisitely sensible to the impres- sion of air, even the breath of a by-stander: he complained of extreme heat, pulse intermitting; saliva viscid, and ex- creted with vehemence: latterly he swallowed easily. He -vomited up much grumous matter, and was perfectly sen- sible within a short period of dissolution. In the uintji volume of the London Medical Journal, we find a similar case. Francis Stannier died in November, 1787, with every symptom of hydrophobia, although he was equally unconscious that it was occasioned by the bite of a rabid animal. The wound occasioned by the bite heals very kindly, and apparently healthy, in the first instance; when the symptoms of hydro- phobia come on, the cicatrix inflames, swells, and appears puffy, with a slight discharge. Two appearances present themselves on dissection. Inflammation of the pharynx oppo- site the mouth of the erysipelatous kind, and an inflammation of the stomach, yet not to that degree as to account for any particular symptoms : these are effects, not causes of the dis- ease. The saliva of a mad dog has been inoculated, but 1 never heard of its having taken effect, although Mr. Lawrence has related one case of this kind. Treatment. The first thing to be done is to ascertain, with a tent probe, to what depth the teeth of the animal have passed; then apply the kali purum, so as effectually to destroy the parts around the wound, beyond which we suppose the poison not to have