. * LECTURE Itl. Stances have been known, when so applied, to have produced the worst consequences, by freezing the parts, and consequently effecting a naorb.d action in the parts, owing to a lax and torpid circulation. Mr. Samuel Sharp has related a case of this kind When, from ice being applied to the groin in a strangulated hernia, such a morbid state was induced as to occasion the whole of the scrotum to slough off; but this may now be pre- vented m smi.lar cases by inclosing the ice in a bladder. Evaporating means have been resorted to, on account of their action m extracting heat from the body, by effecting a con- tmual evaporation from the part inflamed, for which purpose the spir. vm. rect. liquor, acet. pkjmb. dilut. vel aq. purae 3v. ft. lotio. have been recommended. There are other lotions which act in a very different manner, by being immediate agents on the nerves, thereby diminishing their energy; but these are apt to occasion mischief when too powerful, or long persevered in: as for instance in a case of ophthalmia, where preparations of lead, (liquor, acet. plumb.) were used for some time, and produced paralysis of the eyes. Another case is recoUe'cted, when the same preparation was once used through mistake un- diluted, in a case of hernia humoralis, where it occasioned a mortification of the scrotum ; thus clearly proving that these kind of sedatives act immediately on the parts themselves, and are of no advantage in deep seated inflammations. Heat combined with moisture, namely, flannels wrung out of warm water, or the pediluvium, answers well, by producing perspiration, unloading the excretory ducts, and thereby free- ing the system of its redundancy : it is on these principles that oil silk and soap cerate acts. If inflammation should not be got rid of and subdued by the methods mentioned, then, as has been before said, it will be proper to have recourse again to leeches, cupping, and scari- fications : this latter is found of great service in inflammation of the scrotum, done by means of a lancet. In inflammatory affections of any of the internal viscera, blisters may be used to induce a counter-action; liniment, am- mon. 5i. antimon. tartar. 3ij. well rubbed in is very serviceable; this liniment brings out eruptions very similar to the variolous.