LECTURE VIII. 98 it not be better to remove at once the wounded linib by ampu- tation the moment the symptoms of tetanus appear, than to wait for the resources of nature; and of the very uncertain remedies we possess for the cure, which so rarely takes place ?" The unexampled success he met with ought to encourage its adoption. In the chronic species more has been attributed to medicines than they deserve. Persons in these cases will often recover without a grain of physic. The cold bath has, we are told, been used with advantage, so also has the warm. Mr. Aber- nethy's very admirable remarks on this subject will never be obliterated from my memory ; they will be found inserted when speaking on the cold and warm treatment of burns and scalds. I must here, from the testimony that has been adduced, favour the cold bath. Relief has been afforded by the administration of large doses of steel, in the form of the tinctura ferri muriat. and ferri sulph., as well as from the free use of opium, and other antispasmodics, in this species. Trismus will be induced from slight injuries or from cold alone; but it is not dangerous ;-the electric aura will frequent- ly remove it, and will be found to have more influence than any other application, or medicine, in its removal; it must, however, be applied merely in the form of aura, as it will only exasperate the affection, if it be given in the form of sparks or shocks. WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. When arteries are wounded, they may generally be dis- covered to be injured very readily, by the blood being of a florid red colour, or by its escaping per saltum, syncope will be produced, which will have the effect of arresting the pro- gress of the blood to the wounded vessel, and consequently put a stop to the haemorrhage, for the time being, at least; this affords an opportunity for the vessel to contract in diameter, and also to be closed by the formation of a coagula of blood in the mouth of the vessel, therefore, during this state of the system, a salutary effort of Nature is going forward, and ought to be encouraged, and not as is usually the case, prevented by