LECTURE XXin. £72 4 great caution, in dissecting fibre by fibre, chance to do no in- jury, yet he spends a great deal of unnecessary time in the operation. In the scrotum, the sac is situated anterior to the chord, which is behind—below are the testes—on the inner, or puhic side of the mouth of the sac, is placed the epigastric artery. Diagnosis.—Hernia is known from other tumours near the ling, by its dilating by coughing; by its descending in the erect, and returning in the horizontal posture : besides, if in- testine is present, it returns with a guggling noise. Hernia most frequently appears on the right side, at least in the pro- portion of sixty or seventy cases out of an hundred, according to Mr. Astley Cooper. No class have better opportunities of knowing this fact than truss makers. Hernia sometimes advances, as I have previously remarked, to an enormous size, even to reach as far as the knee: here the parts are so thin, that the motions of the intestines can be perceived : this, I may observe, is most common in umbilical hernia. Inguinal her- nia is sometimes liable to be confounded witTT hydrocele, for in this latter disease, it now and then happens, that the water reaches as high up as to form a double tumour, that above of a rounded, that below of a pyramidal shape. The tumour, as in hernia, dilates by coughing. Do not decide too hastily; ex- amine it with attention, and a transparency M'ill be discovered. Varicocele, or an enlargement of the spermatic veins, is still more likely to be mistaken ; as this dilates, by coughing, from the return of the blood: also if the patient is directed to lie down, the tumour will disappear like hernia, but returns in an erect posture. To distinguish it, let the patient be placed in an horizontal position, then by lifting up the testes, empty the veins into the abdomen; after this is done, place your finger on the abdominal ring, direct the patient to rise, and if it is hernia, no descent will take place; but if varicocele, the scrotum will soon be filled as before. Inguinal hernia is- also apt to be confounded with an hydrocele of the spermatic chord. This disease, when it takes place between the ring and abdomen, protrudes, and can be nearly pushed into the abdominal cavity; but although a small tumour should still remain, no man would *