LECTURE XI. as the thigh for instance, without fracturing the bone. Fourth- ly, if a grape-shot of a hirge size strikes the thick part of a limb, crushes the bone, cuts and lacerates the muscles, and destroys the great nerves, leaving the principal artery unhurt. Fifthly, if a spent ball, leaping along the ground, should strike obliquely a limb, without producing any solution of con- tinuity in the skin, a| often happens, the parts which make re- sistance to its action, such as the bones, muscles, tendons, apo- neuroses, and vessels, may be ruptured and torn.—Note. Should, on a careful examination, the vessels and bone be spared, and the muscles are the only parts injured, amputation will not be necessary; and although M. Lamartiniere and D. J. Larrey recommend an incision, to give exit to the effused blood, it should not, in the author's opinion, be adopted, unless the extravasation was very considerable. Sixthly, when a piece of a shell, a splinter, or a ball, has fractured the articular extre- mities, especially those forming the joint of the foot or knee, and the ligaments have been ruptured or lacerated,—or if a foreign body was lodged in the thick part of the articular ex- tremities, or wedged in the joint.' Seventhly, if a large grape shot, a small cannon ball, or a piece of shell, has denuded, in passing through the thick part of a limb, a great surface of bone, without fracturing it. And, eighthly, when one of the great articulatmg joints, as the elbosv, has been laid open to a great extent, by a cutting weapon, and an effusion of blood hito the joint. Faure considered that the operation performed from the fifteenth to the twentieth day appeared less dangerous than at the first instant, by which time he thought the commo- tion produced by the violence dissipated. Experience has now fully demonstrated the impropriety of Faure's practice. It is the primitive symptoms that are to be most feared in gun-shot wounds: of those who suffered immediate amputation, in the naval service after the battle on the Isl of June, 1794, very £g^v died—out of sixty carried to the Naval Hospital at Brest, only two died of tetanus, although several had both arms am- putated, the rest were cured. D. J. Larrey observes, on con- secutive amputation, that extensive mortification, wheTB natur. .'has traced out its limits, convulsions of the wounded limb, dis-