28 LECTURE I. premature old age ; the inhabitants arrive at puberty at 11 anfl are said to be either common or specific; common are what increase every part of the circulation, as wine, &c,, but the aieater number are specific, that is, they have a peculiar effect on some particular part; such a stimulus is seen in mercury, in squills and in cantharides; so also of purgative medicines, as aloes, &c. Some medicines stimulate the arteries alone, and some the absorbents, and those that produce this effect on the latter generally have a contrary one on the former, as digitalis. Arsenic was injected into the jugular vein of a dog, which died in 20 minutes from inflammation of the stomach ; so also of corrosive sublimate, as will be detailed when treating of poisons. The ef- fect of stimuli depends on the constitution ; hence the immense variety in different applications of medicines. All stimulants are found to lose their effect by repetition ; this is illustrated by wine and opium. The utmost stimulating effect of opium is to raise the pulse 15 strokes in a minute, that of wine 50, and this without an adequate sedative effect, whereas the sedative ope- ration of opium is considerable. Sedatives: these diminish the force and frequency of action ; some obviously in the first instance act as a stimulus, as opium; the sedative effect of this and wine bear no proportion; the operation of some sedatives is a direct effect on the nerves; this is demonstrated by injections of opium to the heart or brain; the same of belladonna to the eye; one grain applied causes such a dilatation of the iris, as totally to disappear ; so of lead applied to the muscles of the eye, one or a few grains applied causes paralysis ; it has no stimulant effect; neither has digitalis. The effects of heat on the body are universally stimulant. The natural temperature of the blood, as I have previously observed, is 98" of Farenheit's thermometer in the human body. A person put into a vapour bath, heated to 202°, raised the pulse to 120. In another, whose pulse was 75, it became raised to l64. A third person's pulse, exposed to the same degree of heat, rose only to 145. Dr Fordyce went into a vapour bath of 120°, his pulse rose to 145 ; going into a dry heat of 254°, he supported it much better. The effect of heat in a warm climate produces quicker growth, and