331 LECTURE XXIX. servinw regular distances of time between the fits. When these appearances were present, it was generally the custom to throw in the cinchona; but this practice was attended with little or no success. Opium, with evacuants of different kinds, were found to be effectual remedies; and few cases occur in which this plan will not succeed. From the bladder, the ureters and kidneys become diseased: they enlarge, and ulceration takes place in the ureters, and pelvis of the kidneys. Patients often die of the ultimate effects of stricture; hence stricture is found to be one of the most serious consequences succeeding gonor- rhoea; and as it may prove very dangerous, and is seldom com- pletely relieved, practitioners ought to be very cautious not to induce it by the use of injections during the inflammatory stage. The appearance of the urethra on dissection, when stricture exists, is a thickening of its coats, and a diminution of its di- ameter at the thickened part. It sometimes appears as if a string had been tied round the outside of the urethra, and the stricture will extend no further than where inflammation, thus induced, would be supposed to extend: occasionally, though less frequently, they are met with resembling the urethra, com- pressed by a broad ribband, the contracted part being some space in length : when this latter is the case, they are difficult indeed to remove. A stricture is now and then caused by membranous bands crossing the urethra. There is also an- other species, termed the elastic stricture; in this, though the common bougie is applied daily, no progress is obtained, as immediately on its being withdrawn, the strictured part re- gains its former tightness. Caruncles and warts are some- times situated in the urethra, but the cases are rare; in one specimen the wart grew from the verumontanum. Some have imagined that the existence of excrescences in the urethra was only ideal, and handed dowp from one prac- titioner to another as probable. Mr. Hunter, however, saw two cases of stricture of long standing, in each of which there was a substance in this canal similar in appearance to polypi, and he considered them a species of internal warts.