LECTURE XXXI. 359 «p of tlie sore, it makes the surgeon at a loss to know the effect which mercury has wrought upon the disease, through the me- dium of the constitution. It frequently has happened, that when tlie chancre has been healed in a very short time, by means of caustic, the exhibition of mercury has not been per- sisted in, under the idea that the disease has been eradicated; but in a short time secondary symptoms make their appearance, extremely difficult to remove; therefore, if the patient is anxi- ous to have the local disease removed early, caustic may be applied, but mercury must be given as long as if nothing of the kind had been used. The shortest space of time that this medicine should be continued is three weeks, that its visible effects must be produced, and perceived on the constitution, which may be estimated by the discharge of saliva from the mouth, for that space. The sore will frequently have healed long before this period has elapsed, yet, notwithstanding this, a gentle salivation must be kept up for the above-mentioned time, or, in some cases, longer: as all the appearances of hard- ness must have gone off, previous to the discontinuance of the mercury. Indeed, as a general rule, mercury must not be laid , aside under a shorter time than a week at least after the sore has healed. The best form to administer this medicine is the pilul. hydrarg. gr. x. at night, and gr. v. in the morning ; to this may be added three-fourths of a grain of opium : this will pre- vent its passing off by the alvine excretions. With regard to the local applications which it is requisite to make use of to chancre—one of the best is the black wash (made of lime- water and calomel) if the patient is not of an irritable habit of body. Calomel sprinkled upon the sore, or calomel mixed up into a soft paste, with mucilage of gum arabic, is very benefi- cial. The hydrarg. muriat. dissolved in water, or lime-water will be of service. The ungt. hydrarg. nitr. is frequently made' use of, but an^ applications in the form of unguents to vene- real sores are not approved of. When it is necessary to use the red nitrate of mercury, it will answer best rubbed down with the conserve of hips ; but lotions applied to chancre are always to be preferred. "