I.ECTUKE XXXI. 37i dispersion. A surgeon ought to be acquainted with the course of the absorbents; this explains why a boil on the buttocks causes a swelling in the groin, &c. In some habits, although the venereal disposition is completely destroyed, yet a bubo Av.ll not heal; iu these, hemlock used externally and internally jomed >yith bark, is the most effectual remedy; sarsaparilla' sea bathing, and poultices of sea water, are all serviceable at tnnes ; goldbeaters'water, an application in use at the Lock Hospital, often does service; lemon juice or oranges is re- commended. SECONDARY SYMPTOMS OF SYPHILIS. The secondary effects of lues venerea are numerous ; but of all, that which occurs in the throat is most serious, and will occasionally prove destructive to the patient. When the Ve- nereal poison is carried into the system, it attacks three parts more particularly, the throat, cuticle, and bones; and nearly all the secondary symptoms may be classed under these three distributions, 6r heads: there are certain anomalous symptoms sometimes seen, but they are very rare. Of the Poisox upon the Throat.—When in this situation, the most common parts that it attacks, are the tonsil glands, appearing in the form and character of chancre as situ- ated on the penis;'it is a deep sore covered with a white slough, the edges ragged, and the adjacent circumference thick- ened ; there is also a dark redness around from venous con- gestion. The character by which this species of ulcer is to be knovvn from others is so very well marked, that no person can feel himself at a loss when put to the test of decision. The pam ,s slight, except on swallowing, when in a few cases it is felt running up the Eustachian tube to the ear; these symptoms are more complained of by the patient in the evening than in the monnng ; the throat constantly feels husky, but never sore ; and this arises from the quantity of mucus thrown out upon its surface. This disease in the tonsils is the least dangerous of any of the venereal affections of the throat: even wlien the tonsils are totally destroyed, they occasion no other feeling than