LECTURE XXXIII. ^Qg I the back and loins, &c. The skin has the least tendency of any part of the body to be affected. The first disease of this description which attacks children, is an enlargement of the mesenteric glands, termed tabes me- senterica ; next the absorbent glands of the neck become af- fected and diseased ; then the joints are attacked with it about the time of puberty. A person with a scrophulous disposition is liable to phthisis pulmonalis, to psoas and lumber abscesses ; enlargment of the testes, &c. In old age an increase in the size of the prostate gland has been said to be owing to scro- phula, but there are some who do not attribute it to that cause. Some of the before detailed complaints may occur in the latter stages of life, but they are much seldomer met with than at earlier periods. ; The distinguishing characters by which the scrophulous disposition may be known, are various. The skin is always extremely thin, whether it is light or dark ; the complexion is mostly fair; the hair is often found to be lank and very fine • the pupils are dilated in a light, which would cause their con- traction in children of a healthy stamina, and these children have a great degree of weakness apparent: the eyelids are red and each of the cilia has a secretion of matter surrounding them: the upper lip is thicker than natural; the extremities of of the fingers are enlarged, or chubbed as it were; also when the fingers are long and thin. Children that perspire much, and have pimples making their appearance on the face. All, or some of these appearances, mark the scrophulous disposi- tion in the constitution, and by their presence a surgeon might form his judgment tolerably correct. Persons of tliis dispo- sition are either very irritable, or very indolent: in the first ' description of people it is a much worse disease than in those of the latter. When the patient is of an indolent disposition and habit of body, it is with difficulty cured; but in those who are irritable, the complaint is continually flying from one part to another, and is severe in its attacks, sometimes destroying life rapidly, which it seldom does in the indolent class. Much has been said, .and many arguments adduced for and against the opinion, that the disease is hereditary. Mr, £ £