156 LECTURE XIH. may be some degree of propensity in it, as endeavouring to fulfil the intentions of nature; but I have never had an oppor- tunity of deciding tliis point, as in every case I have met with, vomiting has come on naturally. There are two objects to be kept in view in the treatment of concussion: the first is, to prevent an extravasation of blood in the brain, when it has been lacerated; and, secondly, to guard against inflammatory action. The first purpose, as well as the last, will be attained by venesection; but there should be particular care not to dravy blood directli/ after the injury has been received, as at that period it would tend to weaken the living powers too much, which are already in a feeble state, from the violent nature of the shock : many instances have proved fatal, from this obser- vation not being properly attended to; it is therefore necessary to wait until the pulse indicates bleeding, by its fulness or quickness; it has already been mentioned, it is regular at first. The danger that arises is from existing inflammation, which should be prevented by all possible means; and as soon as we are warranted to bleed, by the state of the. pulse, &c. to do so. In case the patient is of a plethoric habit, the quantity drawn should be pretty large; but this will, in a great measure, depend on the patient, and the violence of the symptoms : the strongest and best indicative 1 know, is a strong pulsation of the carotid artery. The pulse must be watched with attention, and it will be better to take away a small quantity at first, in some cases: and frequently repeated, the contrary practice has been seen to be attended with fatal effects, as tending to lower the constitu- tion to a great degree. In my opinion, the nearer the part affected that the blood is drawn the better: I should advise opening the temporal artery or jugular vein, in preference to bleeding at the arm. The bowels are to be carefully attended to; small doses of calomel at night, with the magnes. sulph. given the next morning, will be found useful in evacuating the intestinal tube, which ought to be kept in a general state of irritation. Mr. Abernethy, I have reason to believe, concurs in this plan of treatment, but he recommends purgatives of a more drastic kind. Sudorifics and autimonials are also to be -given, for the purpose of relieving the body of its redundancy,