LECTURE XXlTt. SEAT OF STRICTURE. This is various; but ihe most general situation is wiiere the original stricture is found about seven inches down the ure- thra, or rather less, at that part where the membranous portion of the urethra is joined to the corpus spongiosum. It is sel- dom the case when the disease has existed for some space of time, that one stricture alone is found, there are mostly two or three: one from three and an half to four and an half inches, one at five inches, and another at six and an half or seven mches from the glans. Occasionally there are several existing. Mr. Hunter has seen from five to six in the same person. If the patient has had the disease a long time, the penis is often distorted, and not unfrequently bent to a right angle, which arises from inflammation in the corpus spongiosum from the irritation induced by the stricture. Strictures are slow in forming, and are worse in cold weather. CAUSE OF STRICTURE. The primary causes are various ; but the proximate are al- woys inflammation of the membrane lining the canal. The most frequent occurrence, is inflammation subsequent to go- norrhoea, whether arising from the violence of the disease it- self, or brought on by the use of injections during the inflam- matory stage. Riding on horseback during the period of cure, as well as drinking spirituous liquors, will equally tend to pro- duce such an effect. Other causes will induce the disease, independent of any taint whatever, as is proved by the existence of it in children, though it eeiiainly is a rare occurrence m them. Mr. Hunter believed, that strictures seldom arose from the venereal disease in any shape, and he says it w ill be diffi- cult to open people's eyes on this subject, there being but few persons now-a-d-ays that have not, sometime or other, had a gonorrhoea !! He founded his opinion for supposing strictures not a consequence of gonorrhoea, on these grounds, that the oesophagus, rectum, ductus ad nasum, and the parts of mtes- tines, &c., are occasionally the subject of the same disease;