365 LECXURE XXXI. Treatment. By means of the black wash and mercury; in other respects the same as in the male subject. VENEREAL WARTS. These excrescences, which are found arising after chancre and gonorrhoea, although termed venereal, are confidently as- serted not to be so. They are often the production of irri- tating applications, which have been made use of during the continuance of the two mentioned complaints. They are growths of the cutis, and do not require mercury to remove them. They are broken and divided on the surface, similar to warts found in other parts of the body. In asserting that these warts are not venereal, I would not wish to be understood as including those situated near the anus, particularly in the female ; they are evidently produced by the direct application of venereal matter to the parts, and are in effect, chancres, covered over with an incrustation: they require mercury to be administered before a cure will be made. The species of warts previously alluded to, are of two kinds • the one soft, and from which bleeding occasionally takes place; the other firmer, similar to warts upon the hand. Those of the first description are easily eradicated by a regular applica- tion of a strong solution of the liquor, plumb, acet. Poultices will frequently bring away great numbers of these at once. The black wash, as well as a lotion composed of the hydrarg. muriat. has been applied with advantage. I'he tinct. ferri muriaL will succeed, so will blisters. The ung. hydrarg. fort, and the application of a poultice, is a good plan. When they are obstinate, equal parts of the powder of savin, acetate of copper, and the red nitrate of quicksilver, will succeed. A saturnine solution of the hydrarg. nuiriat. is a good irritating wash—it should only be used once a day. The other species, those of the firm kind, are said to be very difficult of removal; but I do not think this is the case. To destroy the worst kind of warts that are met with upon the penis, nothing more is necessary than to use a small quantity of