I.ECTURE XXXI. 377 and sternum, &c.: they are very rarely found on those bones, or that part of a bone which is thickly covered with rwuscles and integuments. The pain attending their formation is ge- nerally obtuse, and more in the evening than in all the other •varieties. Surgeons must be careful in ascertaining their ve- nereal origin previous to their giving^n opinion, as it very fre- quently happens that nodes will arise without any preceding venereal symptoms, and on persons who it is certain never had syphilis; in these latter cases of course they are not venereal. AtJirst, the seat of the disease is in the periosteum, and not in the bone, as some authors have asserted, and in particular Mr. Else. It is here simple adhesive inflammation, and consists of an effusion of a glairy albuminous fluid situated between the periosteum and bone. If the disease continues its progress unmolested, this matter appears to be absorbed, and good pus IS poured out by the extremities of the arteries into this cavity, which takes place before the bone is affected. When this mat- ter is formed, the skin over the swelling becomes red, and there are evident marks of suppuration. Fluctuation also is appa- rent; but this is no rule to judge of the existence of pus, as this symptom is perceptible when the glairy fluid exists. The integuments on the surface becoming absorbed, the matter is discharged through the opening, and the bone is found in ^ diseased state. This is the progress of the complaint when allowed to remain, and go through its natural course. Some- times nodes will make their appearance of an evening and sub- side in the morning, and this will continue several days, until the periosteum becomes thickened, and takes on a permanent diseased state, when it will be found to continue both day and night without any further disappearance, unless reduced by the application of mercury. Treatment. Mercurial frictions can alone be depended on for the cure of the disease. The local treatment is very simple. If there IS any great degree of irritation and inflammation, the empl. »apon. must be applied on the node. If those symptoms do