LECTUKE XXxni. 411 the epiphyses of the bone separate, they will convey the same sensation to the feel as if a fracture of the cervix of the bone had taken place, and many clever surgeons have been deceived in this manner. Causes.—-These are generally attributed to some accident, but commonly they are spontaneous, or arise from such slight accidents, that would in a healthy constitution pass away with- out being productive of any mischief: for instance, a child be- mg compelled to walk a considerable distance; this will brin«- on so much inflammation in the membrane lining the cavity of the joint, that on the succeeding day, the little patient is rendered unable to move, without causing a degree of pain on the slightest motion. Treatment. The Jirst and most essential circumstance to be attended to is placing the affected limb in a perfect state of quietude, and all motion .should be strictly prohibited ; for, without this ab- stinence from exertion of the part is observed, it will be almost impossible to effect a cure : in fact, it is absolutely necessary, for if the synovial membrane is pressed upon by the extremi- ties of the bones, the irritation resulting from this pressure will be a constant source of inflammation in this membrane. The next object to be attended to, is the keeping up a con- stant discharge from the skin lying above the diseased joint, and this by inducing a regular determination of blood to the surface, the inflammation going on in tlie cavity of the joint will bJ materially lessened by this obstruction of a quantity of blood, which would otherwise be determined there. To effect this desirable intention one of the best applications will be found in the liniment, ammon. cum antimon. tartar. 3j. tolj. used twice a day, It will produce an eruption on the part it is applied to, after It has be enused two or three days, similar in appearance to that resulting from variolous matter to the constitution; but it will dis- appear m a few days, unless the liniment is again applied, which ought to be done. Several eminent practitioners appear to think very highly of, and strongly recommend, this plan of treatment, in preference to any other. A vinegar poultice will produce u