35 LECTURE II. Inflammation of the arteries also is very extensive, even going to the heart itself. This has been frequently observed in pa- tients who have died from constitutional irritation, after an operation, where a ligature has been made on an artery. Case.' A man in St. Thomas's hospital, aftef* the operation 'before mentioned, had a violent inflammation in the artery, which ran on to suppuration. The symptoms attending it were, first, a sense of cold, with rigidity of the joints similar to •rheumatism; delirium came on, pulse 130. After deatli, the inflammation was discovered running along the internal coat of the artery as far as the heart itself. The cure in such cases must consist in venesection and other evacuating remedies. The inflammation is always found to be in the inner coat only. In the veins its progress is slower than in the arteries ; and wh«n it reaches the valves, these generally adhere, and glueing the sides of the veins together, often prevent any further exten- sion of the mischief; but if this fortunate result is not effected, abscesses form in the veins from the continuance of the inflam- mation, and pus mixed with blood has been seen in theheart. In the absorbents inflammation may be distinguished by red lines under the skin, feeling like cords, and frequently termi- nating at the first absorbent gland. Inflammation of the membranes of large cavities is very ex- tensive, beginning at a point and rapidly spreading, and if recoveries take place it is from adhesion ; as the pleura to the lungs, the pericardium to the heart, and the peritoneum to the intestines, &c. &c. In inflammation of the bones, the pain is obtuse and scarcely to be borne, the constitution suffering more irritation than from the most acute pain. Case. A woman had her leg amputated below the knee; an inflammation took place in the bone, which caused such aa excess of the most excruciating pain, as induced her to submit readily to a second anaputation above the knee for its removal. When it continues in bones, its effects are exortosis, in conse- quence of cartilaginous and bony matter being efilised. In the muscles it produces spasms, as in fractures; the pa- K