LECTURE XVI. QOl taken, that the knife did not slip between the lamina of the cornea only, but went sufficiently deep to pass through it: neither should the instrument be carried so far as to run a risk, on the opposite side, of wounding the iris at its junction with the sclerotica. T think decidedly with Mr. Ware, that the cornea never ought, in any case, to be punctured in the first instance, and W enzel allows this so far to be valid when the pupil is much contracted. The anterior part of the cornea should be rubbed gently, to detach any opaque part that might remain of the lens. When these bodies are prevented being easily separated^ from adhesions or any other cause, they are to be broken down with the tenaculum. In operating, be very careful not to use any unnecessary pressure, so as to force the vitreous humour to escape, what requisite pressure is employed must be seasonably removed, when the knife has entered the cornea opposite to wheie it entered. The lens should be punctiu-ed in the centre, not in the circumference. The whole of the cataract should, if possible, be removed. If the cap- sule is opaque, Mr. Ware advises, that a fine pointed instru- ment should be introduced carefully under the flap, and through the pupil; the lens is then to be punctured in a circular direc- tion, as near the rim of the pupil as the instrument can safely be applied without injuring the iris; when detached, it may be removed with a small delicate, pair of forceps. ON AN ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. It may be necessary to attempt the formation of an artificial pupil, from the closure of it permanently after the operation, I have previously described in detail; and also from the fol- lowing one, that of depression—during the process of restora- tion, the pupil occasionally is found to become so contracted, that it is nearly completely shut, so as to obstruct vision altogether. Whatever cau^ may remotely, or immediate- ly occasion this deformity, whether from excessive inflam- mation of the coats of the eye, or of the iris itself, an ope- ration becomes indispensable, having previously attempted, ^ constitutionally and locally, by the application of belladonna, ineffectually to produce an enlargement; and the first person