86 LECTURE VII. same structure as the parts to which it is immediately united. Supposing that it is skin only that is divided, inflammation takes place, coagulable lymph is effused, and this becoming organized from the surrounding skin, by means of an extension of its vessels, a similar substance becomes replaced ; the cuticle also becomes reproduced, and in the course of time the rete muco- sum is also renewed, though a considerable time will elapse previous to its complete restoration. If cellular membrane, the newly formed is exactly resembling that which previously existed, being reticulated; the cells in the iirst instance are filled with lymph which causes it to appear denser ; but this is soon removed by the absorbent vessels. A similar process is going on when tendons are divided, as well as when injuries happen to the bones. Thus from these examples again here inserted, it is evident that the body is possessed of a power of reproducing a structure like in every respect to that which had been destroyed. To this however there are some exceptions, as has been mentioned, with respect to cartilages, as bone is reproduced, resulting from an increased action in the neigh- bouring vessels ; but if an experiment is made in any young animal, bone is not produced, but cartilage, so that the pecu- liarity in some degree depfends upon the age. A second ex- ception is when muscles are divided, they are united by a ten- dinous substance. A third is with regard to glands ; these are not restored to their perfect state by means of a simple effusion of lymph, they will be found to have arteries and veins, nerves, absorbent vessels, but no excretory duct, as the original , gland had. It will be fouud that this union by adhesion will take place between soft parts and bone ; inflammation produces a severing of the parts, as the peripsteura from the tibia, between which an effusion of lymph is produced, and by being endowed with vitality connects the two parts firm together. This is often perceived in injuries done to the scalp, as well as the tibia, if the parts are applied together when found separated. This process will take place both in flat and in cylindrical bones; as this is the case the obsolete practice of cutting away a portion of the scalp in fractures of the cranium, is done away with ; and for-