68 LECTURE V. has proved very serviceable; bandages arc of course to be avoided. 5th, Indolent ulcers are the very reverse of those previously alluded to; " the edges of the surrounding skin are thick, pro- minent, smooth, and rounded; the surface of the granulations is smooth and glossy ; the pus is thin and watery, being im- perfectly forjiied, and coagulable lymph in flakes appear blended together. The lymph consists of flakes which cannot be easily separated from the surface of the ulcer: the bottoua of the ulcer forms quite a level, or nearly so; and Mr. Home re- marks, the general aspect conveys an idea that a portion of the skiu and parts underneath, has been for some time removed, without the exposed surface having begun any new action to till up the cavity." The principal part of the ulcers which are seen in the hos- pitals are of this kind, although in appearance they vary some- what from the above characteristic. A healthy, weak, or irritable ulcer, unless healed in a certain time, degenerates into an indolent one, although we see some few exceptions, as there are irritable ulcers which never change their nature. In- dolent sores, form unhealthy granulations, which become again suddenly absorbed, and this event is promoted by changes in the weather, anxiety, fatigue, &c. Treatment. Mr. Abernethy has remarked, that, generally speaking, who- ever could apply a roller or a bandage the most perfectly and securely around a limb, would cure these ulcers the best; and the profession is under singular obligations to Mr. Thomas Baynton, of Bristol, for the very excellent treatise which he has published on this disease, which further elucidates the subject. These united are adequate to effect the cure of these ulcers: viz. strapping the wound with adhesive plaster, and applying a bandage from the foot to the knee (if the ulcers are situated, as we so often find them, between the knee and ancle) to give due - support to the circulation. Adhesive plaster is to be applied round the limb, covering the sore both above and below ; and