LECTURE XXVni. 322 a chancre will increase as long as the virus remains unattacked^ Mr. Hunter makes it a doubt whether a gonorrhcsa would be increased by a communication of the same matter; for when the matter of gonorrhoea or chancre, has been applied to a bubo, no retardment in the cure has been noticed, the matter thus applied being only a renewal of the same kind it in the first instance was amply furnished with. The poisonous gland and duct of the viper is not stimulated by the fluid it secretes ; but if the same is applied to any other part of the animal, different circumstances will occur. When a part has been accustomed to a stimulus some time, it gradually grows insensible of its action ; but if there is any interval the part will become almost as sensible as ever. The first infection of gonorrhoea is gene- rally, if not always, the worst, and it is a well-known fact, that the number of claps diminish jhe susceptibility and degree of violence, Notwitlistanding it was considered, that gonorrhuja and chancre arose from the same poison, which I always have doubted, it would be very difficult for the advocates of the for- mer to explain to me, if such really was the case, why the two species do not attend at the same time, for it is natural to sup- pose that the one would produce the other, and although cases are related of a chancre coming on soon after gonorrhoea, and vice versa, yet they are not to me satisfactory. I have known a young gentleman contract a clap from one girl, and a chancre from another, two successive evenings. The one girl was known to have gonorrhoea, the other a chancre. I have heard it endeavoured to be explained thus, that the presence of one irritation excludes the other in general; but in this case they were both present, and distinctly contracted. The constitution will not be contaminated from gonorrhoea— from chancre it will; and although the matter of the latter finds its way, if applied to a common wound, or ulcer, yet it cannot get into the constitution by the breath, perspiration, milk, 8cc. Case. — Gonorrhoeal matter was inserted in the prepuce, Sept. 1, 1817, with the point of a lancet, in a similar way to vaccination; on the 4th and 5th the part inflamed and sup- purated ; the pustule was opened, the contents squeezed put,