116 LECTURE X. phagus; and on the lateral parts, the carotid arteries. A wound of the trachea is not of itself mortal. If the oesophagus is wounded with the carotid artery, it must be done by a sharp instrument of a pointed kind. A transverse wound, hj which this tube is injured, must inevitably include the arteries. Wounds of the trachea alone are easily known by the cartilages separating from each other, and by the air rushing out in the act of expiration. The treatment is to make use of three su- tures through the pericondrium, one anteriorly and two latterly; It IS rarely an instance is seen of the oesophagus being wound- ed ; these latter wounds are fatal either from the fluids taken in, passing through into the cellular membrane and thus pro- ducing violent inflammation, or when the oesophagus is healing, a contraction of its diameter being the result, and the patient is starved to death. Bougies might be used with advantage if introduced previous to the contraction extending to any con- siderable degree. The only fair chance we give patients thus wounded is by introducing a long tube into the oesophagus, and administering the requisite nourishment through it: in other respects it should be attempted to heal the wound by the ad- hesive process. When the carotid artery, or internal jugular vein is divided, the patients mostly die before any professional assistance can be rendered. Mr. Astley Cooper has clearly de- monstrated on the human subject the practicability of securing this artery without any great and immediate derangement in the functions of the brain ; and it would be advisable in this in- stance to secure the internal jugular vein by ligature, as pres- sure alone cannot be trusted to; and the danger we run by applying a ligature would be infinitely less than the hemorrhage that would ensue, from neglecting its adoption. The most troublesome occurrence we meet with is a convulsive cough, which greatly distresses the patient, and to relieve it, opium, given in mucilage of gum-arabic will be proper. The su- tures in none of these cases should penetrate through the lining of the trachea or larynx, otherwise the irritation will be ma- terially aggravated. The larynx is found to be more sensible of irritation than the continuance of the tube, the trachea. There is generally great hoarseness and weakness, and occasion-