1 74 LECTURE V. tending, till at length all are taken up except the bone, which takes up some time. The process of absorption, in these cases, will be found to be much favoured by the application of nitrous acid : the inside of a bone will require two or three years to exfoliate ; this is to be attributed to a languidness in the con- stitution. In mortification, when the parts are separated by nature, a very curious and important circumstance occurs, which is, that the arteries, though completely eaten through, discharge no blood, and this is prevented by coagulation in the large arteries, to some little distance from the seat of the mor- tification. The predisposing cause of mortification is principally de- bility ; a languid habit is often observable to take place after great weakness has been induced on the system, by the severe attack of small pox, measles, scarlet fever, &c. Sores also are remarked to slough from the use of mercury exciting salivation, so as to produce the same effect, viz. debility ; also after con- siderable haemorrhage; numerous other instances might be adduced, as any interruption to the circulation; as in hernia, &c.; ossification of the arteries; old age; pressure, by long continued lying in the same posture; but this may be referred at once to debility, erysipelas, severe injuries, as gun-shot wounds, bruises, &c. &c. Climate, specific diseases, as fluxes, &c. may be also enumerated. It will be necessary to give a caution here, in amputating the limbs of those people whose disposition of body is favoura- ble for the formation of gangrene, to take care that they do not lose much blood, as the very worst effects have been known to have resulted from such a loss. Inflammation is the proximate cause of mortification; if t^ere is any exception to this, it is in hydro-thorax, but very rare even here. Frost bitten parts do not die without previous inflammation. Treatment. It consists, in the first place, of local evacuations, such as leeches to the part, scarifying, &c. and to strengthen the habit %y a generous diet, and tonic medicines; if the patient has