40 LECTURE III. Will form, if there is constitutional debility. "External violence, from mechanical or chemical means, application of irritating substances, &c. are common causes of inflammation. There can be but however one general cause of inflammation, that is, parts put into an unnatural state. The proximate cause of inflammation is a matter of dispute. Dr. Cullen's doctrine of spasm of the extreme vessels, is con- sidered not at all conclusive. Boerhaave's opinion of an ob- struction in the smaller vessels from the thickness and lentor of the blood, is disapproved of. He admits the vessels are di- lated, and allow the mischievous red globules to enter, which he conceived produced permanent constriction. If you examine transparent parts with a good microscope, and to do this, take the web of a frog's foot, you will tind that it apparently contains no red blood ; but if you excite inflammation by pricking it with a sharp instrument, in a few minutes you will see red par- ticles of blood enter into the vessels, at some little distance from the part injured; they are pushed forward by little and little, till they come to the ramification of the veins, which they immediately enter, and become directly conspicuous, though before they were merely visible: but they are now distended by the vessels behind propelling the blood forcibly into them. There does not appear to be any evident action in the vessels of the part itself on the blood which they receive ; they dilate and open to receive it, but the action would appear to Be in the surrounding parts—a kind of sympathetic action; and if this is an important fact, it extends to the sensorium and heart itself, and causes the constitution to sympathize in severe injuries. I cannot give you a better idea of this, than by showing you what happens in the eye, when any offending matter gets into the tunic conjunctiva, the lacrymal gland immediately sympa- thizes, and a flow of tears rushes over the eye to expel the off'euding substance; did this run through tubes, it would be exactly similar to what takes place in inflammation. The action of the neighbouring vessels is increased, and the blood rushes to the injured part: this increased action you may ob- serve in a whitlow on the finger, if you feel the artery in the