362 LECTURE XXXI. Treatment. It is too frequently the custom of surgeons to direct the application of a warm poultice to the part, which is absurd, and only aggravates the disease. The point of a lancet should be passed into the prepuce to evacuate the serous fluid effused into it; and when this is done, the glands must be compressed by the fingers of a surgeon, in order to expel all the blood out of its cells, and when the pressure has been continued for five minutes, place the thumb at the extremity of the penis, and surround the prepuce with the other hand; then press the for- mer back, and at the same time draw the latter forward. Very few cases occur w hich have not existed longer than fourteen or twenty-one days, in which this plan fails to succeed. The glands, previous to the final attempt, may be put into cold water, ■which will assist the surgeon in his efforts. If this is pursued, I do not beheve it v^ ill ever fail: but where it has been of long continuance, the skin requires to be divided with a lancet, which relieves the constriction, and it will be best to insert a director under the part, and cut down through to it. When paraphymosis has continued some time, sloughing will not unfrequently take place of a portion of the glands : in this case the operation of circumcision must be performed, which consists in cutting off a circular portion of the prepuce. Besides these effects of chancre, it occasionally happens, that the ulcer occasions such excessive irritation, and such a high degree of inflammation, attended with great pain, that the deplorable situation of the patient requires immediate relief. In these cases mercury must be laid aside, and a lotion, com- posed of the acid. nitr. gtt. vj. vel. viij: aq. distill. ^ iv. M. will be of great advantage, and more effectual in removing irritation than any other application that I know of. The bowels should be cleansed with a brisk cathartic, and then opium, combined with bark, must be thrown in. When the symptoms are much abated, the splr. sether. nitr. and the hydrarg. muriat. are to be given: these may be given, in the proportion of one and a half grain of the latter to 3 ss. or 3j. of the aether: the quantity/tzch dose will depend on the capability of retaining it on the patient s