LECTURE XXIII. 268 Midway between the pubis and ensiform cartilage is a hole, or opening, called the umbilicus, or navel, formed for the pas- sage of the umbilical chord, which is composed of two arteries and one vein. The arteries and vein are never found to perfo- rate the peritoneum, as has been supposed, as it is as compact as in any other situation : the arteries pass upwards from the bladder, while the vein passes between the tendinous expansion and the peritoneum to the liver. The white line which is seen extending from the pubis to the ensiform cartilage is the lenia alba: on each side is the lenia semilunaris, which begins at the cartilage of the seventh rib, and is continued on each side just above the body of the pubis. The lines extending in a trans- verse direction are called the linea transversalis. The external abdominal ring appears merely to be formed by the splitting of the fibres of the external oblique. Mr. Pott considered that the chord took its course behind the ring directly into the abdo- men. Albinus has shown in his plates that the chord took an oblique course. The abdominal ring is shut up, and well protected by the tendons of the external oblique and transversalis muscles—and behind them, by that of the rectus : and to etFect this still the more effectually, there is a fascia which passes up behind these tendons ; from the deficiency of which, no person could stand upright without the hazard of the protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through the intestines, and this forms the only partition between the peritoneum and the external abdo- minal ring. I shall now describe its origin. Poupart's ligament, or crural arch, is a doubling of the ex- ternal oblique, and is extending or stretched from the spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the pubis : this ligament splits into three distinct portions or fascia; two pass upwards, and one downwards—the portions it sends upwards would be sup- posed at first to be peritoneum. The frst is ihe fascia trans- versalis—one small portion of which passes downwards under Poupart's ligament to form the anterior part of the sheath of the femoral vessels; the other part passes behind the trans- versalis muscle, and forms a lining to it all the way up : now