LECTURE XXXII. qqq gree of care, to avoid irritating the wound more than is abso- lutely necessary. If these portions of bone are not removed, they wilJ excite excessive pain by irritating the wound, and will induce a copious discharge until they are thrown out or separated, either by nature or art. This being the case, I would advise that the surgeon should never be backward in dilating the wound when the bone is splintered, as the particles ought to be taken out. Large portions of bone should not be taken away if the periosteum remains on them, as they will re- unite ; but if this membrane is torn off, they will never again be consolidated with the bone.' The second difficulty occurs when the surgeon is unable to reduce the portions of bone which protrude through the open- ing in the integuments : in this case the practitioner has two remedies; the one consists in the dilatation of the wound made, the other in the removal of the piece of bone with a saw. The first plan is always to be preferred to the second, and is most strongly recommended, unless the periosteum is stripped off the exposed piece of bone, in which case it must be taken off, otherwise it will exfoliate; and also it must be removed if the fracture is a very oblique one, as the chances are against Its retaining its vitality, and the wound required to be ma*de to replace it would be a large one. The third difficulty is when any considerable artery is di- - vided. I think that reasoning as to this occurrence ought not to be employed alone, but that experience must serve as a guide generally. The anlerior tibial artery has been divided ni a compound fracture, and two ligatures were put on the vessel, and the man recovered. If the posterior tibial is di- vided. It requires amputation to be performed, unless when the fracture is low down. If the femoral artery is opened in a compound fracture, amputation must be resorted to as the only chance of saving life. If the brachial artery is wounded, it is not necessary to remove the limb; the surgeon should wait the event after having secured the vessel. In a case where the arm mortified up to the ligature after such an accident, amputation succeeded very well; therefore, though we delay, no additional