LECTURE XXX. 349 In the treatment, the profuse and unseasonable discharge of semen, which occasions a state of great debility, must be dis- continued, or prevented; and those medicines which commu- nicate strength and vigour to the system, freely given, and chiefly depended on, combined with the cold bath, and local bathings for the re-establishment of health. Mr. Hunter advised a young man who had an evacuation every night, and frequently when he walked or rode on horse-back, to take twenty drops of laudanum at bed-time, which afforded relief, when bark and other remedies had failed, and by continuing its use he per- fectly recovered. An elastic yoke, put on the penis to bind it to the thigh, will be of service, or a piece of thin metal to retain it in that situation, which will occasion some pain if erection takes place, and awake the patient. If it arises, as it frequently does in old people, from an aiFection of the mind, two instances of which I have known in men of property and respectability, married to as fine and handsome women as could be seen, which I attributed to a consciousness of incapability, as there was a considerable disparity in years, make light of their com- plaint; but, at the same time, assure them of a certainty of cure, or at least of getting better, and prescribe pills composed of any inert substance, desiring them to be careful to take one only at night, and by no means have any connexion with their wives: and it is seldom that more than half a dozen are swal- lowed before a good account is given by the patient of their surprising efficacy. Mr. Hunter recommended a patient who was complaining of impotence to sleep with a female, but for- bad him to have any connexion with her for several nights. In this case, the disease being merely a mental affection, he was completely relieved by pursuing the plan for only a night or two, as nature was found to be ever vigorous. O ne of the testicles may be lost without producing any very perceptible effect upon the virile powers, though both of course will entirely destroy it. A curious case, illustrative of this, oc- curred in Guy's Hospital some years ago. Abscesses of the epididimis, which supervene on inflamma- tion of the testes, will very much, though not entirely, abolish the power.