LUCTURE XI. 135 eased.or excessive suppuration, and bad unhealthy state of the stump, may require its performance. I have aheady remarked, that incisions for the extraction of foreign bodies, as wadding, pieces of linen. See. as well as to remove splinters of fractured bones, are required—they pro- duce more mischief than a bidlet, for being in pieces, they cause a number of small abscesses; large substances may remain without however exciting inflammation: a piece of irou was lodged betx^een the flexor tendons of the thigh; it was so near the intercostal arter) that an incision could not safely be made—it remained, without any mischief, only interrupting the action of the muscles. When a ball excites inflammation it will come out with the pus. When a ball can be found, it may be removed with a slender pair of forceps. When abcesses form from the entrance of any extraneous bodies, a large open- ing .should be made for their discharge. Wounds from small balls are not often dangerous; they will sometimes remain in the body, and at other times work out of themselves. Whea amputation is requisite in common accidents, it is especially so in gun-shot wounds—the bones are more splintered, and the wound much more contused; we find exceptions to every general rule that could be laid down. Dr. Babiugton had a case of compound fracture of the knee, from a gun-shot, in which the patient recovered; but I mention this, however, more as an extraordinary case than for imitation; although fortunate, the practice was decidedly wrong. The treatment must be assisted by rollers and proper bandages, as the eighteen-tailed bandages, pads, and splints, &c. Never use any oily or unctu- ous dressings, as some authors have recommended. Burns, proceeding from gunpowder, appear alarming to those who are unaccustomed to see them, from their black appear- ance. Cloths wet with the liquor acet. plumb, dil. should be applied: all oily substances should be avoided, as being im- proper; they induce ulceration: the blackness generally re- mains : care should be taken to prevent sound parts from coming into contact with the burned, which might give rise to an union between them. A case was seen where the fore arm, from being kept too much bent, had adhered to the upper: whea