LECTURE VII. 91 continuity, but are accompanied with such force and violence done to the substance of the part, that suppuration and slough- in"- are mostly ensuing, if the force applied has been sufficient to destroy the vitality of the part^ In the course of a few hours inflammation comes on, and the absorbents take up the living substance immediately in contact with the dead part, and by this means it is separated from the other. The treatment is to be quite different from that of incised wounds :—carefully remove any extraneous bodies; leeches, fomentations, and poultices are to be used. It is also requisite, if the injury is extensive, to support the constitution under the process. After the bowels have been opened, opium and antimony are the best internal medicines : in some wounds of this description, the bark is found liable to irritate the stomach; hence in these cases it would be better to omit it. LACERATED WOUNDS. Lacerated wounds are different from the other species, as the haemorrhage from them is much less. Sometimes whole limbs will be torn off with little or no blood being lost. Cheselden has related a case which came into St. Thomas's Hospital, where the arm and scapula was torn off, without any heemorrhage. These wounds are often dangerous, on account of their containing extraneous substances ; and they are more liable to be succeeded by tetanus than either of the two before mentioned. Treatment.—After washing the wound very clean, and removing all extraneous bodies, it may be right to apply adhesive plaster to bring the edges of the wound together, or as near so as possible, in as many points as can be done, to pre- vent nature from having so large a cavity to fill up as she otherwise would have by granulations, afterwards emollient poultices. Leeches applied around may be necessary, and sometimes the lancet is to be had recourse to, if the constitu- tion requires it, or the irritation is great. Opium, &c. must be employed in these cases, previously regulating the action of the bowels.