LECTURE IV. 63 OF CICATBIZATION. When granulations arise even with the surface of the sur- rounding parts, or a little above iheip, then the process of cicatrization commniences, which effects a covering over the whole extent of the sore; or in other words, skin is formed which spreads over the entire surface of it; this process depends in a great measure upon the inosculations of the granulations which form on the edges of the skin. There is a gradual and uniform contraction from the sides to the centre of a wound during the healing of it; the progress of the granulations is from the sides, not the centre of a wound ; and thus, if it is a con- cave one, this fact is indisputable, as the skin becomes puckered or drawn inwardly to a centrical point. In a transverse wound the edges recede by their natural elasticity, but during the heal- ing process they are again approximated, from the contraction of the granulations; and hence it is, that as they contract, the skin becomes gradually elongated, till the progress of cicatriza- tion is complete. As soon as a sore begins to cicatrize, the surrounding skin becomes smooth, and has that whitish cast so frequently observed, with a similar coloured subst^ince, which Hunter conjectured to be the new forming cuticle. It would appear that new skin is derived mostly from elongations of the old ; but this is not always the case, as new skin is seen formed in detached portions in the centre of some sores, quite unc'on- nected with the surrounding skin. Now whether this is a new surface formed by the granulations, or a change that they vmderso, remains to be ascertained. New formed cutis is less yielding, less elastic aind moveable, also thinner and tenderer than the original, although in course of time it recovers more flexibility, is lesS attached, and becomes firmer and denser; it has a smooth general surface, without the indentations of the original, and the living principle is less active, as it is sooner absorbed than the old. The cicatrix forms an entirely new cuticle over the sore, and which is very expeditiously done; but not quite so soon with respect to the rete mucosum, as instances have shown with regard to negroes. In the fiUing up of the parts, it is the