LECTURE XXXI. 384 around th^m 6f inflammatioii; but mercury, if long continued will' cause a cutaneous eruption of the crusted kind, similar to the venereal in every respect; with the single exception, of Vi^anting the discriminating mark, the circle of deep coloured inflammation around. As to the swelling of the bones, they are frequently attacked with a similar disease in appearance to the venereal, but they are unattended with the nocturnal increase of the symptoms. The long continued use of mercury will occasionally produce a complaint very like it: but in all these cases, no preceding Srenereal symptoms having existed, will explain their distinction. They aVe readily relieved by the application of blisters to the part affected, and by giving the decoction of sarsaparilTa. Wo- men' of delicate habit of body, in whom debilitated symptonis occur, will occasionally have nodes without their iii the least partaking of the venereal: they may be I'erho'ved by blisters 6t other stimulating applications, and by giving the mistiir. myrrhaj. There is a diseiase, which is occasionally met wilh in the nose, which by many is confounded with that resulting from the ap- plication of the venereal virus to the constitution, this is called NOLl ME TANGERE; at first sight it resemljles it, but on an accurate examiiiation it will be found to differ. The besf remedy is a solution of the argent, nitr. 5i fo aqua 5i. The parts are to be bathed once daily with it, and afterwards the black wash is to be applied, giving at the same time tonic medi- cines. In one case, which baffled every usual means, it yielded to a solution of arsenic applied to it, taking this medicine inter- liafly at the same sime. The venereal disease cannot be cured by the grand specific Khercury in some people, who have extremely irritable habits of feody, as very soon after beginning the use of mercury, the con- j5ti'tutioti will become so much deranged as to compel the sur- ^;eon to desist from its continuance: this may be owing to de- ll ility, and frequently occurs in scrophulous patients : when this is the ease tyiercury must be laid aside, vitl> the exception of a ihild preparation, and none will be found better than Plummer's piiH. The d6co<it. sarsaparil. may be given at the same time. 3