lECTURE XX-XIII. , lity extends also to the absorbent system, as well as the vascular. When called upon to treat this disease, a surgeon should al- ways have in view the original debility of the vessels, and, as a primary object, attempt to remedy this as much as is in his power; and a second consideration is to form a strong and more compact crassamentum. To eflfect both these intentions, the surgeon has air and exercise, nourishment, and tonic rae- dicmes. All these judiciously combined, will tend a great deal towards removing the original defective formation of the con^ stitution. Practitioners in large towns and cities have an ad- vantage over those in the country with respect to the first of these, by having it in their power to send their scrophulous patients into a purer air than that in which they reside; but, even in the country, great benefit is derived from directing the patients to change their place of residence. It will be of service to all, if they five near the sea. It is almost absolutely necessary that they should be placed in a warm atmosphere, as they will seldom recover if allowed to remain in a cold damp air, or situation. Great attention should be paid to their takin.^ exercise, and that of a proper kind ; they must only use this . whilst they are fiee from fatigue; and immediately upon their feeling tired, they should desist. They should have their minds exercised at the same time, and their spirits should be kept up by playing with other children, and this will prove of much more service than walking with their parents. They should have the best nourishment, but this must not be given so as to excite fever. They must have very little vegetable food : their diet should almost entirely consist of animal matter; they should be allowed to eat oftener, not less frequently, and their food should not be taken in large quantities at a time. Porter and wine must be given them, unless the latter excites heat and fever, m which case it must be laid aside. Different cir- cumstances of the case will require different medicines. The tinct. cinch. cumtinct.ferri muriat. has been given with advan- tage ; but as It heats and induces fever, the surgeon should have recourse to other medicines. The tinct. cinch, cum acid, mu- nat. IS most strongly recommended, siss of the latter tofij. of £ E g