256 LECTURE XXI. tended with a quantity of fluid, yielding on pressure, but return- ing again to its former size. When this is removed, it possesses great vascularity, so tliat the vessels cannot be entirely emptied on pressure, although the tumour may be a little diminislied. It is almost altogether unattended with any pain, is extremely move- able, much more so than that of scirrhus, and perfectly detached from the surrounding parts. It has not that marbly hardness scirrhus has, and this, with the want of pain, distinguishes it from the latter. This tumour grows from that tendinous sub- stance which connects the parts of the breast together, and not unfrequently from the fascial covering of the pectoral muscle. This, like scirrhus, has an imperfect suppuration going on, but the progres of it is different; first, in its being larger, and forming a cyst which contains a large quantity of fluid; this when discharged, has the appearance of whey mixed with pure matter. In this respect it is something similar to the hydatid breast, but it does not in this disease admit of any relief from injection. It is more rapid in its progress than true cancer, spreading, from absorption, 'to the glands in the axilla, which are generally considerably larger than in cancer. How far the operation may be proper, when this enlargement of this gland has taken place, is yet to be determined; but I think the opera- tion in these cases would be quite useless. It is necessary in the removal of the breast in this disease to prevent a recurrence of it, to take particular care that the whole of the breast is removed, and even parts at some distance from it: the aponeu- rosis of the pectoral muscle is to be also taken away. The great debility and prostration of strength caused by this disease is to be attributed to the quantity of fluid constantly discharged, and hence often by removing the disease the patient recovers, although in an exhausted state, which will require time and great care to surmount. From the vessels being much larger in fungus haematodes than in true scirrhus, it necessarily follows that the haemorrhage is greater, and more vessels require to be secured after operating. There are several other diseases to which the breasts are liable, but one that I shall particularly dwell on, as it has often