LECTURE XII. 141 purging commenced the arsenical solution was discontinued, and a purgative glyster given twice. The lacerated edges of the wound were immediately removed. ON HYDROPHOBIA. A person bitten by a rabid animal is commonly affected about a month after the accident, but this varies very consider- ably in some cases, even so remote as eighteen or nineteen months; while others are affected so early as the eighteenth day. The first symptoms are a chilliness and indisposition to take food, attended with thirst, pyrexia, &c.; and on attempt- ing to drink, the patient experiences the greatest horrors, though for some time he conceives the idea of swallowing a fluid without fear, but after repeated efforts is disappointed: he draws deep inspirations, and such anxiety is apparent in his countenance as even to excite pity in the mind of the specta- ter; his hand is at the same time convulsed, and the fluid spilt: after a time, in consequence of the spasmodical action of the muscles concerned in deglutition, he is equally incapable of digesting either solids or fluids. Ptyalism succeeds, and if any saliva happens to touch the patient, he experiences great uneasiness; just before death convulsions come on, so that in a few minutes he is in a state of epilepsy; but this only happens in young people, as adults are gradually exhausted by irritation. A person labouring under this disease has been ridiculously said to bark. I have never known an instance where the pa- tient has attempted to bite others; he will, however, in case he knows what his complaint is, advise the by-standers to be aware; but this arises from impressions previously made on the mind. The cause of the disease appears to be excessive irrita- bility, for any kind of stimulus is known to produce a degree of horror and shuddering. It is curious to see a patient go into the bath; before he sees it, it appears to affect his mind but little, but as soon as he comes near he suddenly starts back; as, however, the resolution is seldom gone, he jumps in, but on touching the fluid convulsions are excited; the ruffling of the water is often enough to occasion these. A very marked case of hydrophobia occurred at Guy's Hospital. The patient^