LECTURE I. 25 table before a fire; on the return of warmth, their sensibility returned; they soon began to move, and presently one jumped off. In a case of strangulated hernia Mr. Cline and Mr. Sharpe applied powdered ice for upwards of forty hours ; the consequence was, the part was frozen while and hard, heat restored life to the part, but being too suddenly applied, caused sloughing ultimately. Though cold in general diminishes the frequency of the pulse, yet if applied suddenly, it increases it. A man having a pulse of 80, by plunging into the cold bath, it rose to 120; another person by doing the same, whose^^^ulse was 90, had it raised to 135. I have repeated the experiment, 'that of trying the effect of a partial application of cold, by plunging my arm in snow; my pulse, from beating slowly, be- came very quick. By the addition of ice to water, lowering it to 33 degrees, my pulse being 81, was raised to 121; at another time, being 87, to 139- It seems to me to depend on the suddenness of the plunge and the irritability of the person, as this effect of cold is an irritating effect; the pulse, though in- creased, is a contracted one and thready. I am not aware that the tonic effects of cold have ever been satisfactorily explained. A debilitated person shall have a quick pulse but weak, with heat too on the skin; the effect of cold is to bring down the pulse to its natural standard, and take off the excessive heat; and it is in this way the cold bath does good in weakly habits, and in typhoid patients. It produces a slower and fuller pulse ; it does not agree with a plethoric habit, as it causes head-ache, from a determination of blood to the brain. Ice is used as an external application in hernia, and has been strongly recom- mended by Sir James Earle in burns with the best effect; but I mu«t refer you to the subject itself: do not use it if the cuticle is removed; it has been most strongly objected to. Artificial ice may be made with equal parts of nitre and sal ammoniac mixed. Cold is applied occasionally by means of evaporation; aether is the best applied to a warm surface, and has relieved in a few hours, as on the temples in severe attacks of the head- ache, &c. Cold applications are had recourse to for removing inflammation, in some cases with good effect. The liquor, acet. plumb, dil. c spir. vin. rec. is an excellent applica-