99 LECTURE VIII. the administration of stimulants, &c. The manner in which the hsemorrhage is suppressed is as follows :—when syncope is induced, the artery contracts, not exactly at the extremity, but above this, as far as the first anastamosingbranch; this will resist the flow of blood from the heart; the second circum- stance assisting this, is the retraction of the artery; its drawing itself within its sheath, and blood which will become in a coagulated state, is accumulated round its extremity: and this will satisfactorily account for the stoppage of the bleedmg, when the artery has been completely divided, which resists every application when only 'partialis/ so. The third principal circumstance is the sealing up of the end of the vessel by a clot formed within it, that is, formed within the cavity of the sheath, and projecting a very little way into the mouth of the vessel; this principally suppresses the haemorrhage, by its external pressure. These three circumstances always occur when an artery is divided by means of a sharp cutting instrument. But when an artery is torn asunder, the mode of bleeding being stayed, is rather different. Arteries, in these cases, sel- donj bleed any. The cellular membrane here is twisted around the vessel, and acts in the same manner as a ligature. A man had his thigh torn off by the recoiling of a cable in a Margate Hoy, he was taken into an hospital, and the stump was ampu- tated ; the end of the artery had exactly the above-mentioned appearance. He recovered, for no bleeding happened at the time of the accident; this, however, is not always the case, for sometimes arteries are torn off, leaving the mouths open and completely exposed; in these cases the texture of the vessel is destroyed by the extending power made use of, and this may be proved by experiment on the dead subject, for if an artery be very much lengthened, its circular form is altered, and it will collapse in a similar manner to a vein. Contused wounds of arteries do not shew themselves as very dangerous until some time after the accident has been received, namely, at the period when the sloughs separate. A person received a contused wound from a fall on the neck, nothing particular occurred at the time, and the man appeared going on well, but on the sloughing off of the bruised parts, a portion of the