LECTURE XXX. 353 the eflfect of producing an attack of rheumatism, or of ophthal- mia. If injections are used, the symptoms are greatly aggra- vated; but if the discharge is allowed to be secreted or pro- moted by the use of emollients, the general disease, if it may be so called, will be much relieved in its violence. To effect a cure of this secondary complaint is considered, by some prac- titioners, as rather a difficult matter, and the best mode of treatment they advise, is the use of the warm-bath every day, local fomentations, and the bals. capaiba, exhibited internally • and, under these circumstances, surgeons, they think, ought never to use any injection, but trust the cure to our old assist- ant and doctress, dame nature, who might be more tedious, but not less effectual. The author thinks the first complaint origi- nates from the frequent exposure of some gonorrhoeal patient to cold, stripping almost naked to foment, poultice, inject, &c. I know, at this moment, a gentleman suffering rheumatic pains from this cause, lately afflicted with the previous affection. I knew another, a little- while ago, with ophthalmia; and from whence did it proceed ? why, most assuredly, from want of cleanliness, transferring the gonorrhoeal matter from the lower to a more elevated and conspicuous situation; soap and water i« the best preventive of the last, and a stout Welsh flannel wrapper of the first. ON GONORRHCEA IN THE FEMALE. It commences its ravages in the female sex with an inflam- mation of the nymphffi; the next attack is the os externum, or labia vagina; then the meatus urinarius participates and be- comes one of the principal seats of the disease; it begins at the onfice and afterwards extends along the membrane lining it, and the lacuns, situated in the canal, inflame: owing to the shortness of the urethra, in comparison with that of men, thfe disease is much sooner communicated to the bladder than in our own sex. Women suffer excessively in the first stage of gonorrhoea, by a violent bearing down of the bladder and rec- tum, more particularly experienced in the former immediately