LECTURE XIX. 227 posed of uric acid and the urate of ammonia. Weakly diluted muriatic, or nitric acid, readily dissolves those formed of the phosphate of lime and the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. Diluted nitric acid will nearly dissolve those composed of the oxalate of lime. Fourcroy tells us that the caustic alkali alone is capable of dissolving almost every ingredient in the compo- sition of calculi, and hence, no remedy in calculous affections is more universally employed than lime-water as a solvent, I believe a Mrs. Steevens had no less a sum than £5000 from parliament for a nostrum, of which this was the principal in- gredient, united so as to form a soap. From the above experiments it is evident that the different varieties of calculi can be dissolved out of the body, or they might even in the bladder be soluble, if that organ would receive these medicines passively, and not inflame and suppu- rate, on their introduction; even in that case, there would be a trifling difficulty to surmount, which is, that the precise nature of the calculus could not be readily ascertained. From these circumstances it has been attempted by certain authors, who have written expressly for the purpose, to prove that they are of no kind of utility in cases of stone; in this they argue che- mically (knowing the changes they must necessarily undergo before they arrive at the bladder) but not philosophically. I will allow, that as far as the idea has prevailed of their power of dissolving calculi, it is at'least ingenious; but: independent of this they are of material benefit in practice; first, in miti- gating pain; and secondly, as excellent preparations for the operation of lithotomy. The good . effects of one of the pre- parations of soda could not have been more manifest than in a naval commander, who, before he had recourse to this medi- cine, was in constant pain and anguish, and although he had continued its use but a little while, he got perfectly easy and remained so, although the stone was easily felt in the bladder. The dose he took was two drachms in twenty-four hours of the subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in a quart of water; and I think the way it must have acted was by acting on the nerv- ous powers, and consequently diminishing the irritability of the constitution, which of course would afford material relief. —■