LECTURE XXIII. hernial sac at a time: Mr. Cline, sen. accidentally found an instance, some years ago, of this kind. He found the two sacs formed on the same side, so that more than one protrusion might have happened, constituting a kind of double hernia—it is a very rare instance, and seldom occurring. In the formation of hernia, they are mostly coming on in a very gradual and insensible manner: but occasionally they are found to be produced suddenly. Hernia are very properly divided into three different and distinct states: the reducible, or when the contents are easily replaced in the abdomen, suf- fering no constriction; irreducible, when the contents cannot be returned, from their size, and the smallness of the aperture, yet suffer no impediment in their functions, the intestinal canal not being interrupted; and strangulated, or incarcerated, where there is constriction, and cannot be replaced. OF OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. This species commences midway between the spine of the ilium and symphysis pubis. The first appearance of the tu- mour is over the iliac artery, when it will be found pulsating. A small portion of the peritoneum first protrudes over the spermatic chord, forming the sac; on the inside is the epigas- tric artery. As it descends it is confined by the oblique muscle, so that it turns downwards and outwards. After pass- ing about two inches, it emerges through the abdominal ring. In its course above the ring, it has the tendon of the obliquus externus before it, the spermatic chord behind, and posterior to this again, the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis. When it gets through the abdominal ring into the scrotum, it ridiculously has the name of scrotal hernia. The protruded parts have three coverings: the first is the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; next to this, is the cremastic, which is very dense if the hernia has been long down; and then the hernial sac itself appears, which is the thinnest of the three. A knowledge of the existence of these coats, is of the very first importance; for, without it, a practitioner may, with