LECTURE 303 XXVI. mulation of adeps in the omentum or mesentery, which is not unfrequent in females, from their greater disposition to its formation than males ; or fourthly, and lastly, from utero-ges- tation, by which the viscera are thrust into a very small space. Umbilical hernia sometimes attain an enormous size. I re- collect a case where the peristaltic motion of the bowels could plainly be seen; it hung down to a considerable extent, was smooth, and scolloped like a melon. Treatment. In the reducible state in infancy, after the contents are re- turned into the abdomen, apply to the part the flat side of an ivory ball, which has been cut into two parts; or a piece of cork over this adhesive plaster, and a belt to confine the whole, having two^traps to pass between the thighs and one over the shoulders, to prevent its slipping. When from a deficiency of muscles, the integuments are thin, it is advised to cut a piece away, and bring the parts together by suture. There are cases ^ detailed, one by Dr. Hamilton, one by Mr. Blizard, and others by surgeons whose names I do not recollect, in which the practice proved successful: a very favourable opinion is entertained of it by the profession. In the adult, the best plan, if the hernia is small, will be to apply an ivory ball, as in inftmcy, after the contents is returned. A mere pad of wool, put on, and confined by a girth, has suc- ceeded ; but this pre-supposes a cavity, into which the hernia sinks. The hernia now and then projects here : a circular truss, like that in inguinal hernia, is proper: but the greatest difficulty is in women, when the abdomen is considerably en- larged ; here a girth is to be put around the body, having a pad in the middle to cover the hernia; at its inferior part is to be a shorter baud, which passes under the pendulous part of the belly : the upper one goes round the back, and is buckled. When the hernia is irreducible, and of considerable size, a cap, made of copper, and lined with leather, should be put on the tumour, with a bandage under it, and a belt over the shoul- ders, otherwise ulceration will take place. It is not unfrequent to find a strangulation through an orifice i