LECTUBE XIX. 237 is a branch of the internal pudendal; the division of it is readily known by the stream of blood flowing out: then feel for the staff, which is laid bare in the membranous part of the ure-' thra,' and with the fore finger of the left hand, carry it lip to the groove in the staff—now take the latter in your own hand, and bring it forwards, so as to rest it against the arch'of the pubes; by this means the knife will readily slip along the groove into the bladder, keeping the staff in the same situation till you have made your cut into the bladder, which is to be done by . drawing out the knife, and this divides the prostate laterally, when the staff is to be withdrawn. Having passed in the for- ceps, and laid hold of the stone, it is not to be extracted with violence, but rather wait a moment until the muscles are a little relaxed, and if any resistance is found in the beginning, turn the forceps round, and by gently moving it about until the stone is laid hold of at its smallest diameter, endeavour to ex- tract it gradually; if this does not succeed, introduce it a second time: if the stone is of a soft texture, a scoop must be used: on the 18th January 1810, Mr. Cooper operated thus, and ex- tracted thirty-seven calculi, of a tolerable size, from a gen- tleman. When the stone is very large, Mr. Henry Earle has constructed an instrument for breaking it in the bladder. • Subsequent Treatment. The legs of the patient are to be bound together by passing a bandage around the thighs • the simpler the dressings to the wound the better : he is then to be laid in bed, and a dose of opium given. If the internal pudendal artery has been divided, it may, in general, be stopped by pressure •, but should it still bleed copiously, it will be right to introduce a piece of firm sponge, perforated through its centre with a canula, by the ex- panding nature of which, when it imbibes moisture, the hae- morrhage will be stopped. Peritoneal inflammation is the cause of death in most cases from this operation; and hence, if the abdomen becomes swelled, tender, and painful, bleeding must be had recourse to, both locally as well as generally; fomentations may be used, immersion in the warm bath—a blister will be advisable if the