28 LECTUnE I. When the stomach receives a blow suddenly, the diaphragm becomes incapable of respiration ; and when inspiration is thus impeded, nature cannot perform her functions, and death is the result. The son of an opulent merchant, accompanied by Mr. Astley Cooper, the surgeon, left town to witness a review, on horseback; and adjoining to the ground where it was to take place, was a ditch M'hich it became necessary to leap, and neither being remarkably expert in horsemanship, they alighted mutually to assist each other. Mr. Cooper's friend got over and caught the bridle of his horse, who soon cleared the impe- diment; and he ,was going to do the same with the other, when unfortunately the horse made a sudden, and it would appear, un- expected spring, struck the gentleman on the stomach; he fell down, rolled about, and seemed expiring. He was left on the ground till he made some inspirations at great intervals, and was then conveyed to a neighbouring house, and bled; in a little while he seemed to recover, and in a few hours was perfectly restored. He stated that he perceived he was completely inca- pable of breathing. Some substances introduced into the stomach, such as oysters, muscles, &c. will by a sympathy be- tween it and the skin, produce eruptions on the skin. It is by irritation, that corrosive sublimate and arsenic cause effects on the stomach which cure cutaneous affections. Fainting is caused by local irritation, respiration being for the moment suspended. A violent shivering once or twice in twenty-four hours, is often the result of a stricture in the urethra, and is best relieved by opium. Shivering is also caused by the formation of n^atter, and occasionally by the introduction of a bougie. Paralysis of the lower extremities is occasionally happening in children from irritation in the bowels, and it sometimes pro* ceeds from teething, which will also occasion in them convul- sions. A rash may be brought out on the skin by teething, and by costiveness, in other respects apparently healthy child-.- ren. A suppression of urine has followed the amputation of a limb ; and the practitioner is sometimes obliged to desist in the extirpation of the female breast, from the sickness caused by it. Scalds, burns, &c. though occasioning slight local injury, arc