LECTURE IV. 59 fluctuation, indicating where nature would, if left to herself, fix upon for the precise spot; but it must not be understood that an opening is recommended, except in selected cases, to be done at ail prematurely. ON HECTIC FEVER. It is found (but this depends more or less on the irritability of the patient's constitution) that the system becomes affected with hectic fever to a considerable degree, according to the extent of the abscess, which comes on sometimes twice a day. Till of late years (and it is even now maintained by some) an opinion prevailed, that hectic fever was caused by absorption of matter; but this opinion is certainly wrong. In proof of this assump- tion, it is found that hectic fever prevails where there has.been no formation of matter. Case—An instance of this is recol- lected which occurred some time since in this city ; where a girl was admitted into an hospital for an affection of her knee, ac- companied with pain, yet no appearance could be perceived of any collection of matter. Hectic fever came on twice a day, and so reduced her constitution, as to be deemed prudent to amputate the joint, conceiving there might be matter formed internally which could not before be detected. But on exa- mination, the limb was discovered to have nothing of this sort: the only appearance of disease was in the epiphises of the os femoris, which were much inflamed. This case distinctly set the question at rest, and proved that hectic fever is capable of existing without absorption of matter. Since that time many other proofs might be adduced, that hectic fever often exists previous to the formation of matter. A small ulcer in the lungs may bring on hectic symptoms, while a very large one in the leg will produce no such eff'ect: these are certain and incontrovertible evidences of what has been advanced. The hectic fever is simply this: it arises from sympathy in- duced on ihe system by the irritation of some part or parts ; or in other words,'it is that general disordered state, the immediate eff'ect of irritation. There are three stages of it, the cold, the hot, and the sweating fits; the patient is alternately seized with