LECTURE XIX. 233 any diseased action going on in any one organ, either remotely or immediately essential to life, I would decline operating, as it will not, by any means, be prudent to do so. This remark not only holds good in early and advanced age, but also in adults, as when it has been done m these cases it is seldom, if ever, the patients do well : it is, therefore, for these reasons, indispensa- bly necessary that the constitution should be perfectly restored to its healthy actions before it is attempted. Sometimes from.a stone in the bladder the kidney is enlarged in some; in others, it wastes in its substance from ulceration : if then the patient complains of severe pains in the loins and a discharge of matter with the urine, after the presence of stone has been ascertained in the bladder, it will be advisable to delay the operation: a similar appearance is presented when there is a diseased prostate, but unaccompanied with the acute pains in the loins characterizing the other. It will be equally impro- per to operate when there is an ulcerative state of the bladder, which is known by the excessive pain sounding produces, and a discharge of blood jnixed with the pus. Necessari/ Precautions. Those who intend to perform lithotomy should be furnished with a case containing every requisite instrument, as well as the proper bandages. There are different kinds of sounds used; they are not to be introduced indiscfiminately, but large in pro- portion to the size of the patient, as without attention to this caution, mistakes and affirmations might be made of the exist- ence of a stone, when in reality there is not actually one present. It is also right to sound the patient in' an erect as well as in a recumbent posture, for this reason; if there should be a dis- eased prostate, the instrument, in an erect, slips over the gland into the bladder, and the stone cannot be felt, being situated be- hind the prostate, In the hollow between it and the rectum ; but it is easily felt in a* recumbent state of the body: it should likewise be known by examination when the bladder is full, as well as when in an empty state. These points are of great importance to the surgeon, as his character so much depends upon an ac- curate knowledge of the -presence of a stone in the bladder.