388 LECTURE XXXII. lymph against the periosteum will induce crepitus when the part is examined, pimilar to what is felt when a bone is broken! but this crepitus never is perceived until inflammation has arisen jn the part, which generally requires three or four days to pro- duce in a sufficient degree; therefore, tension, spasm, &c. will come on, and if the bandages are too tightly applied at first, it will be necessary to remove them at this period. It is generally the plan at the present time, not to apply any bandage on a fractured limb for four, five, or even six days ; simple extension must be adopted, when the limb should be placed in an easy position, with the ends of the bone as perfect- ly in apposition as possible. The deposition of the jelly-like substance, which is cartilaginous, and which commences the process of ossification, nener is produced, until the inflammation has subsided : hence, if bandages are employed in the first in- stance, they should be put on loosely, and they must be render- ed tighter towards the fifth or sixth day. From the prejudice which prevails, the practice being still pursued by surgeons of the old school, it will be necessary, in order to quiet the patient, to apply bandages immediately, but do so, as I have previously observed loosely: the limb would certainly be better without them. When the inflammatory process has subsided, the limb is as mobile as it was, subsequent to the accident; but no crepitus Avill be distinguishable at this time (if previously felt), the ex- tremities of the bone being covered with a new substance. After the ninth day in young subjects, the ends of the bone begin to unite ; but in persotis who are more advanced in years, this does not happen until the tenth or eleventh day ; and the union is complete in the small bones in about twenty-one days, but in the large, not until the fifth or sixth week: this, however, depends much upon the age and constitution of the patient. In young persons, the deposition is effected much sooner than in those who are advanced in life. The process which goes forward to effect the union of bones in cases of simple fracture is thus : for the first four days, blood is effused between the ends of the bones, which also pervades the cellular membrane: this is ultimately absorbed, as it has