tECTURE KV. 184 use of, arid contiiiiiecl for some time, on the supposition that the parts would not be so liable to ulcerate; but on dissection, the reverse of this was observed. The principal by which an artery heals after the application of a ligature, has been ably and ingeniously explained by Dr. Jones, in his admirable work on hjemorrhage, the result of a numerous series of experiments on animals. He says, that for an artery to unite, it is abso- lutely necessary that its internal and middle should be ruptured, and this is only to be accomplished by a rouvd and uery firm ligature, drawn moderately tight on the vessel; the inner coats become united by adhesion before the process of ulceration separates the ligature round the outer coat: a broad ligature he found not to have this desirable effect. Dr. Jonss proceeds further to observe, that the ligature may be taken away after the rupture and division of the inner coats has been effected, and yet the artery will unite by the adhesive inflammation, gluing its sides together: this, in my humble opinion, is a most im- fortantfact ascertained, and tends greatly to simplify the ope- ration for aneurism, as no impediment whatever would impede the healing the wound immediately. Mr. Abernethy made an improvement in this operation, which has been very success- ful : it is, applying two ligatures on the artery, about an inch asunder, and dividing the vessel between both. I think it but fair, however, to state, that many cases have done well without this division; but future experience will prove the advantages of both more fully. In case no haemorrhage follows, which I conceive would depend materially on the proper use and appli- cation of the ligature, owe otiIt/ will do. Dr. Jones's plan may be sufficient, as it effects every intention that could be desired, a permanent interruption of the flow of blood to the tumour. The operation for popliteal aneurism, as practised now, is com- monly attended with success, and I recollect only two cases where it failed ; in the one, from mortification, in consequence ■ of an ossification of the arteries; in the other, from violent constitutional irritation. The nezo mode of operating for popliteal Aneurism.—It will be proper, previous to its adoption, to prepare the patient in some measure for it. In case he is of a full plethoric habit,