LECTURE VII. QO muscle should be incautiously or erroneously applied, it will occasion inflammation and violent spasms. Ligatures should never be applied upon small arteries that are divided in incised wounds of parts, for by so doing, a greater surface is left to be filled up by granulations, which might have been healed by the adhesive process. The appli- cation of a roller moderately tight upon a stump or wound, will generally be sufficient to suppress the haemorrhage, even from the second rate arteries, and must remain on 24 hours. How- ever, below the knee, when a leg is amputated, all the vessels of any importance must be tied, as pressure cannot act upon those between the bones, or contiguous to them. There is a circumstance that all surgeons that consider the welfare of their patients should avoid, namely, an idle curiosity of opening the wound or stump too soon; the time that wounds ought to be allowed to remain unopened will be from three days to seven or eight, according to the extent and nature of the wound. After the operation for amputation, some are curious and desirous to see how the healing process goes on; in this k will often happen that the adhesive inflammation will give way, and the parts recede, by which suppuration must ensue before the Avound can possibly heal. The straps should not be removed under seven days ; intervals must always be left between them, that any discharge taking place may have an opportunity of escaping. If there is pain or great inflammation after the amputation, it may be mostly removed by the application of cold water to the stump; if an oozing of blood ensues, by which the rollers and bandages are rendered stiff and uncom- fortable, it will be advisable to remove them, but the straps must remain. If a number of lymphatics are divided, the effusion of this fluid will retard the union of the wound. CONTUSED WOUNDS. A contused wound is occasioned by the collision of a blunt instrument or surface against a part of the body; under these circumstances, it would be absurd to attempt union by the adhesive process. These wounds are not merely lesions of