liECTUllF, I. 24 12, and seldom exceed 60. In more temperate climates, this does not happen till from 18 to 21, and is prolonged from 70, to even an hnndred years and upwards. The effect of heat on the pulse is to produce a quicker and fuller action; the ex- ternal veins dilate, and are seen apparently distended in the Avann bath, which always produces perspiration, and is a general stimulus ; it has great power in exciting the absorbent vessels, and in weakening the body. In twenty minutes this power extends to the production of syncope : in Jive minutes it only increases the general tone of the vessels. The hot batli, from 105 to 110 degrees, is productive of uncommon benefit in some scrophulous cases. Violent heat causes blisters to arise; a more' violent still, excoriation and detachment of the cuticle ; still greater, death of the part and mortification : and of these three stages of burns, the second is the most dangerous, as I shall explain hereafter, oi\ burns, and scalds. The patient dies of excessive irritation when the cuticle is removed extensively, in a few hours. Heat when applied to the body, generally with moisture, as in a poultice, relieves, by exciting perspiration of the part, and unloading the capillary vessels; with the same view, fomentations are used: and to excite the absorbent vessels, dry heat by friction or otherwise, tends to the same effect. Of Cold: its effects are very interesting; though it does diminish, yet it increases the action of the heat sometimes as well. Of its sedative effects : I made this experiment while in Edinburgh, Mhich had been done often before; my pulse being 85, I exposed myself to 18 degrees of Farenheit's ; my pulse became in one hour 76, in two hours 65, then followed sleepi- ness; its ultimate effect is a sleep, and more remotely, death. - In this circumstance, the body is robbed of its heat faster than the organs of respiration can supply it, and when the heat be- comes lost, the circulation ceases. Cold, when partially or particularly applied, causes a difference in the heat; the ears and nose, from excessive cold, mortify and drop off, as was very fatally exemplified in Napoleon's campaign to Moscow. The living part of the body may be frozen, and yet restored to life, as has been proved by experiments made on frogs, being completely frozen during a severe winter, they were put on a