282 LECTURE XXIV. sionally. Cold applications have this effect: they cause a corrugation of the whole scrotum and the cremaster muscle, which thus act on the bowel, or prolapsed contents, and by its pressure, the tumour becomes lessened, and ultimately re- duced. As to the warm bath, from what I can judge, I do not con- ceive it to be equally efficacious with the cold application and tobacco enema : I have seen it frequently used at Guy's Hos- pital, and when syncope is brought on, it will be serviceable. The advantage of cold applications once warm, is, that that heat gives no relief if it does not assist in reducing the strangu- lation pretty quickly; whereas, if cold is used, if it does not gain the point desired, it will arrest the progress of inflamma- tion. Fomentations should never be used, unless there is slow inflammation going on, and no direct symptoms of strangula- tion. Mr. Hey is an advocate for opiates, given in large doses, after bleeding, in some athletic persons, and purgatives he has found of great utility in those cases where the intestine has re- tired, and the omentum only remains strangulated: he also countenances the warm bath : in many instances where it has been used, reduction has been accomplished—but I leave these subjects, as I find them, without any comment. I have only to observe, in strangulated hernia the greatest danger is, useless delay, and reposing confidence in remedies or treatment to an unpardonable extension of time—a rapid disease must be com- bated by decisive practice. Apply the taxis ; if young and plethoric, bleed; if the warm bath is ready, emerge the pa- tient in it; if not, apply ice to the tumour, and a tobacco enema is to be ejected. What Mr. Lawrence very properly says, is this, if the surgeon is not called in till some progress has been made, the tobacco enema is to be used, and the to- pical application of cold ; if w hat Mr. Pott remarks be cor- rect, that the operation, when performed in time, was only fatal once in fifty times, I have only to observe, how culpably negligent I have seen surgeons, as their success is by no means so flattering, and why ? from its being protracted to too great a length; as Mr. Hey of Leeds states, when he first got in practice, from dilatory practice he lost three patients in five ;