308 LECTURE XXVII. ings, properly conducted ; in the beginning a glyster, and the introduction of the catheter, at stated intervals, will be right. CLAVICLE. A dislocation of this bone, may happen at either extre- mity; when separated from the sternum there is a tumour susceptible, and the clavicle is either thrown forwards or backwards. By drawing the scapular extremity backwards, and making pressure on the sternal extremity, it is easily re- duced. The scapular end is oftener dislocated than the other; it is thrown upwards on the processus acromion : carry your finger along the spine of the scapula to the acromion, when you will feel the clavicle : this accident is liable to be mistaken for a dislocation of the os humeri. By drawing the shoulder back- wards, and pressing down the end of the clavicle, it regains its situation. In both these accidents the arm had better be kept in a sling after the reduction: but notwithstanding, deformity very often remains. OS HUMERI. The shoulder joint is liable to three different kinds of dislo- cation : first, downwards, which is the most common, into the axilla: in this case the h^ad of the bone is situated between the glenoid cavity and ribs, and there are four signs which will denote the nature of this accident: first, the shoulder will ap- pear sunk and flat, and a vacancy is plainly distinguishable under the acromion; secondly, the elbow cannot be brought to the side, because the triceps muscle is on the stretch, which permits this motion; thirdly, the patient cannot bring his hand to the top of his head, neither can it be raised in a line parallel with the acromion; and fourthly, the feeling the head of the bone in the axilla, which will be facilitated by casting the el- bow as far from the side as possible; the lower edge of the Jectoral muscle is drawn tight—the arm is longer than the other. Having ascertained the nature of the accident, proceed to the reduction, by placing the patient upon a chair; put a towel in the axilla, under the dislocated shoulder, and tie it tight over