279 LECTURE XXIV. inquiry is made into the state of the case, the danger will be soon apparent; but if the abdomen, as well as the tumour, is soft, and not painful, with no vomiting, &c. it may fairly be concluded there is an abatement of the symptoms of strangu- lation, and the patient out of danger. On dissection of those who have died of strangulated hernia, if omentum is down, it will be found, as soon as the sac is opened, a little discoloured ; but not so much so as would na- turally be expected from the pressure of the stricture: it takes on the character which the intestine has when strangulated, and has a crispy feel. If intestine, it is found of a reddish purple colour, with spots of extravasated blood on its surface: it is also covered with a portion of coagulable lymph, which can be easily pulled off—but take care not to mistake this for the mortified part. On the inner side of the sac, is a similar appearance, through the adhesive process having here com- menced. The quantity of water or fluid within the sac, de- pends a great deal upon its contents, whether intestinal or omental—being considerable in the former case, and vice versa in the latter : the looseness of the intestine, and length of the strangulation, have also much to do with it. There are three different situations in which stricture may be found. The tirst 1 shall notice, is that at the abdominal ring : this is not so frequent, and is mostly found in old and large hernia : it is formed by the margins of this aperture. A more common seat of stricture, is about one inch and a half from the external opening, in the direction I have previously remarked, of the course of the canal upwards and outwards* The reason that it here occurs so frequently, is owing to the common practice of wearing trusses for a time, and then leav- ing them off, so that the orifice of the sac becomes contracted. The stricture is produced by the tendon of the transversalis on the inner side, and the muscular part of it on the outer; by its fibres running across the neck of the hernial sac, so as to produce a gradual compression; and by the fascia transver- salis, the semicircular border of which passes under the sac. A third seat is within the sac itself, occasioned by membra- nous bands, or chords entangling the intestine, and great care