336 LECTURE XXIX. inflames and ulcerates, urine readily extravasates into the loogje cellular membrane, not only of the penis, but also of the scro- tum ; hence suppuration soon commences, and ultimately ef- fects this fistula. Now and then a fistula is thus formed very suddenly, but in general the forriaation is gradual. The patient observes a very hard and distinct tumour ex- isting in that part of the urethra opposite to the bulb, not in general exciting much pain, but causing a good deal immedi- ately the contents of the bladder are evacuated. The urine being extravasated here, occasions inflammation and subse- quent suppuration. When this takes place very suddenly, the life of the patient is in great danger, from the extravasation of urine into the cellular substance of the perineum or scrotum; in such cases the inflammation and suppuration is violent and extensive, spreading not only to the scrotum, but to the integu- ments, at the anterior and inferior parts of the abdomen. In cases of this nature, it is right to make an opening into the part as soon as possible. Any attempts to check the forma- tion of matter is only so much loss of time, as they are never attended with success. Early opening of the abscess is highly necessary here, and more particularly when the urethra bursts suddenly; if it is neglected, patients will, in all probability, fall a sacrifice. The mode of operating is thus: pass a catheter as far as the stricture will allow, then make an incision an inch beyond it; after which pass a staff into the urethra, and cut directly upon it through the stricture; by this means, present relief is not only aff^orded, but it may effectually relieve the stricture, in- troducing an elastic hollow bougie, and suffering it to remain two or three days. The scrotum should always be opened at different parts by means of incisions, made sufficiently deep to admit of the urine being evacuated by means of them, but not so as to endanger the w^ounding of the tunica vaginalis: by this method, and by this only, will sloughing be prevented. The application-of a vinegar poultice to the scrotum, will be found extremely beneficial. Whether the extravasation is anterior to the scrotum, in it, or in the perineum, the early opening is al- ways- to be adopted. Having made the necessary incisions, 4