512 LECTURE XXYil. be known frotti a dislocation, by feeling for the styloid process of the radius, and the root of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and if they.are in a line, it is not a dislocation : this swelling will sometimes require six or even twelve months to subside. From the sprain an inflammation is induced, by which a quantity of coagiilable lymph is deposited among the sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the wrist, which, by its bulk and rigidity, suspends their motions. The treat- ment consists in the application of the emplasl. hydrarg. c; ammon. j and after this has been continued for some time, friction may be used, frequently moving the fingers. Another method, which may be useful by exercising the part, is to have a ball put in the jpalm of the hand, which the patient should grasp often; and when he is able to do so with a large one, slibstitute a smaller one, and diminish its size until he recovers the complete use of the flexor muscles. If the thumb or fingers are dislocated^ simple extension will reduce such an injury; and splints, or pasteboard, are to btf applied to retain the position afterwards. '\ bF TiiE OS FEMORISi There are four different dislocations of the thigh bone. The most frequent of allj is that which occurs upwards. There are four signs or circumstances which characterize it and distinguish it from the others; and which should be ascertained. — i^iV^i, whether one limb is shorter than the Other; in this accident it generally is about two inches, and sometimes even so much as three. 2dly. In this species the knee and foot are thrown over the other leg. 3dly. The tro- cantfer major is resting very near the anterior superior spinous processes of the ilium; and 4thly, the limb is in a fixed state— the head of the os femoris rests on the dorsum of the ilium. This accident can only be confounded with a fracture of the heck of the os femoris; the limb is shortened in both cases> but in fracture the limb is turned outward;—dislocation hap- pens in young people, fracture in those advanced in life. To attempt its reduction, lay the patient on his side; fix the