LECTURE KXII. muscle higher up. Generally from two to three inches above the patella is the proper place to commence making a complete division of the injteguments and fascia, which adheres to the tendons of the rectus and triceps : the integuments can then easily be retracted or drawn back three inches in length, which is enough to be saved. The muscles, &c. are then to be cut through by another circular incision down to the bone, which is to be sawed through. The only artery of consequence is the femoral; some small branches will occasionally be required to be secured besides. A roller must be applied for the purpose of keeping down the muscles, and preventing their retraction, otherwise the bone will be apt to project. The integuments are to be united by strapping. It is usual both here and below the knee to cover the adhesive plaster with a pledget of soft tow or lint, to be retained by linen, or a laced stocking.—It is also customary to give an opiate when the patient has been put to bed. The tourniquet must be left loose about the limb. Remarks, at the hip joint. It would be extreme mad- ness, it is thought, to attempt this operation : I am not aware _ it has been performed but a very few times, and these patients did not survive more than twenty-four hours afterwards. It can only be warrantable in one particular case ; when a shot has shattered the head of the bone, and the patient is of a thin and spare habit: but in diseased state of the parts, as in scro- phula, for instance, it would be of no utility, as the acetabulum is also affected, and cannot be come at, as in amputation at the shoulder joint, where the cavity of the os humeri can be exposed. Below the hip joint.—If attempted here, the femoral artery must of course be taken up; there can be doubt as to sufficient nourishment being afforded to the stump. An inci- sion must be made, so as to find the artery just as it emerges from under Poupart's ligament, pass a broad ligature under it, and tie it foose/y, so as to secure it for the moment; let an assist- ant hold the ligature: then make two semi-circular incisions, S3 as to form two flaps, one above, the other below ; raise them sufficient to allow the bone to be sawed through. The pro- funda circumflexa and ischiatic arteries are to be secured, the T 2