LECTURE XII. 139 below the elbow, by a wasp: her arm swelled up to the axilla, to an amazing size, in the course of a short time. I attributed it to her extreme irritability; a strong poultice was applied to the wound, and cloths kept constantly wet applied around the arm, with the liquor, acet. plumb, dil. vinegar and water in equal quantities; it was deemed necessary to bleed, purge, and give opium, from so trivial a cause. The sting of insects, in this country, seldom require much attention; oil, opium, and volatile alkali, as the spir. amnion, succin., are the principal remedies—some apply vinegar, lemon juice, spir. vin. camph., spir. corn, cer., &c.—others recom- mend employing only an alkali to neutralize the poison, ex- tracting the sting by incision, &c. The bite of a viper is productive of great inflammation and constitutional irritation, with an appearance of ecchymosis, but is rarely fatal. The poison of these animals is found in capsules, or bags, at the root of two moveable fangs in the upper jaw: it is by compression of these bags that it escapes along the grooves in the fangs into the part bitten. A com- panion of mine, in attempting to kill a viper, was bitten; he immediately sucked the wound, but the part soon became painful, the arm considerably swollen, and attended with some degree of fever, and he lost the power of articulation: with respect to this circumstance, I cannot determme whether it arose from the tongue or arm, though it did not appear to be in consequence of the former, as it was not swollen. He ulti- mately recovered by the use (if oil and poultices. There are several other instances : one case is recollected where the part was removed, but still the arm swelled a good deal, and it was some time before the patient recovered. This poison seems to operate chiefly on the nervous system. To see, in some mea- sure, how it acts, a rabbit was taken and a viper bit its ear; after a short time was found a great determination of blood to the part, which soon became thickened, and the animal died. The whole surface of the cellular membrane appeared as if in- jected with venous blood, hence the tumefaction and livid spots which appear in these cases. Fontana attributes the danger in proportion to the size of the animal: in children it is more