LECTURE XXVllI. 328 not be used with long pipes, as they are liable to wound the urethra; they should be short and accurately smooth, and rounded at the extremity. At the time of forcing in the in- jection, the patient should compress the penis about three inches down, in order to prevent the passage of the fluid any further distance down the urethra. Much benefit may be de- rived from varying the injection every two or three days; a lotion composed of a different medicine should be substituted, and • by this means the cure will be much accomplished : as when only one kind is made use of, the urethra becomes ac- customed to the stimulus, and it loses its intended effect; and to overcome this, if it is much and suddenly increased in strength, it will be very apt to cause stricture. If the injec- tion, though varied, does not make a cure when used for some time, it will be prudent to lay them aside, and a bougie should be introduced dipped in the following composition: bals. co- paib. 3j.,ol. olivar. opt. 3iij., or smeared with the ung. hydrarg. nitr. very weak : these are found frequently to succeed where injections have failed. I would remark, that the great objec- tion to the bals. copaib. is, that it is apt to cause eruptions on the skin. This is the plan I would lay down ; but I cannot in justice avoid noticing the contents of a papfer, by a Mr. Addington of West Bromwich, to be found in the " Contributions of Medical Knowledge" published by the late Dr. Beddoes of Bristol. He gave a grain and a half of the oxymuriate of mercury, dissolved in half an ounce of rectified spirits of wine, at bed time: for an hour and an half or more, a copious salivation was produced, and his patient spit a quart. Aperient salts are to be taken on the day but one afterwards ; and on the evening of that day, the solution, as before, is to be repeated, and the salts the suc- ceeding day but one. Three or four doses thus given, fre- quently, he states, removed a gonorrhoea; and the account pro- ceeds to state, hundreds w ere cured by the plan. Is there any sympathy between the throat and urethra ? or, how is the operation accounted for? Cubebs, dried berries resembling pepper, have lately attracted notice in this complauit; but until I hear something more rational on the subject, I shall be silent, observing, that a warm spice, of a moderately pungent