108 LECTURE IX. pressure upon the ends of the tendon, otherwise it will be glued to the posterior part of the tibia and muscles, and thus prevent its motion in a great degree. The patient is to be confined to his bed four or five days, at the expiration of which time he may get up, but must immediately have a high heeled shoe put on, to prevent the rupture of the newly formed tendon, which would certainly take place, with very little exertion, if this was not done—he may be allowed to walk a little about. The shoe should be one inch and a half high at the heel at least, and must be worn four or five weeks, gradually taking it down to its level. Mr. Hunter ruptured his tendo achilles in dancing, and was supposed to be the first who improved on the old method of treating this accident, it being the practice formerly to stitch the ends of the tendons together. From his observation and experience, and what he reaped from others, particularly in the case of the Duke of Queensberry, he has completely estab- lished his mode of treatment as the best. Dr. Alexander Monro, of Edinburgh, met with this accident—he was con- fined five months by the treatment employed, which is more complicated than what is now practised. There is a partial rupture either in the tendon or some of the fibres of the gastrocnemei muscle occasionally occurring, always ensuing from muscular exertions: at the time it hap- pens the patient has a sensation of being struck on the part with a stone, he becomes lame, and a hollow may be perceived where the fibres have given way; there is a slight ecchymosis from extravasation of blood in the part: if it is neglected, the patient will be lame for the remainder of life.—July 9th, 1815, Colonel Williams, of the 2d Garrison Battalion, met with this accident from a very trifling cause: making l ather a longer extension in his walking to hear the news brought by the mail of the victories of the Duke of Wellington, he put his foot on a round stone and slipped. The author adopted the following plan : he pressed the muscle down, and applied a roller to re- tain it in that situation; his stocking was put on, and a cabinet- maker in the town immediately made, under his inspection, of splints, a permanent apparatus to retain his leg and foot im-