LECTURE XIII. 157 and exciting the different excreting ducts to action. Opium, if combined with antimony, requires a degree of nicety in the administration of it; alone it is improper. The local treat- ment to be observed consists in the application of a blister to the head, after a few days has elapsed, which is attended with very good effects, and ought not to be omitted. If there is any wound on the scalp, it will be right to apply stimulants to it in order to produce a quick formation of matter. Blisters operate by taking off the determination of blood to the brain, effecting what is termed a retrovulsion or counteraction. All stimulating substances, with respect to diet, &c. should be carefully avoided: the food should be as light as possible, such as panada, water-gruel, &c. The patient should be kept free from all noise and conversation, and even from the stimulus of light: after recovering from the most urgent symptoms, many are liable to paralytic affections, strabismus, and fatuity, and other nervous diseases, so that the recovery is imperfect: elec- tricity, in these cases, will be found very beneficial. In con- cussion, I have never witnessed, or read detailed, any great benefit from the use of the trephine, nor can I recollect any case where it has been successful.—Remarks. Is the liver affected to that extent Dcsault would persuade us, in concus- sion? Is it found inflamed and suppurated in those who die from this accident ? Would not the plan of an eminent sur- geon, in the Prussian service, of the name of Schmucker, be worthy of adoption externally: it is, a lotion applied to the head, of spring water, vinegar, nitre, and sal-ammoniac ; and would not this be manifestly increased in effect by a large blister on the nape of the neck, kept open with savine cerate ? ON COMPRESSION. The symptoms of conipression differ from those of concus- sion in this, that we find in the former that apoplectic sterta, which accompanies it always in a great degree, and also at- tended from the first instant with extreme slowness, oppressive- ness, and irregularity of pulse : the loss of sense and voluntary motion is not immediate^ as in concussion; it comes on gradu-