LECTURE XXIV. 288 in the course of a few hours, are relieved. I may further ob- serve, that in case of there being much intestine down, and only one gangrenous spot, an opening ought to be made here, and a corresponding one in the integuments for the faeces to pass, and not attempt to return the gut, as this will be glued for a time, and the faeces discharged by the opening. But sup- posing it did not adhere, and that there was a large spot mor- tified, still from the valuable documents I have by me, I should be disposed to recommend the adoption of a similar practice, leaving the intestine undisturbed, as several instances are known where patients have died when the gut has been returned. A difficulty arises when the intestine adheres to the mouth of the sac, which is not easily got rid of; and_ it frequently happens, that a patient dies from this cause after the operation; if the adhesions are short, they may be separated with the finger, otherwise with the knife : but if after all, in puUing down the in- testine, further adhesions are still found higher up, though it is. attended with some risk in exposing so much int^tine—still as no fseces will pass if the intestine is returned into the ab- domen in folds, there will be a necessity of dividing the whole of the stricture. Mr. Lawrence objects to the practice of using sutures to bring the ends of the canal together. The stricture must be divided, but the progress of the cure should not be left entirely to nature: where the intestine has not al- ready burst, the faeces should be evacuated by an opening intq the mortified part. If there is a great deal of omentum down, diseased, thickened and indurated, it will be right to cut i^, away, as large quantities may be removed with impunity. If haemorrhage of any consequence should ensue, fine ligatures should be used; otherwise mere laceration of the vessels with a pair of forceps, will suffice. The removal of omentum does not add to the danger. It will be right not to return the re- mainder into the abdomen, but let it adhere to the mouth of the sac, by which, future descents are rendered less liable to hap- pen. Should the portion of omentum be not large, but con- siderably hardened, still it will be improper to return it, as the scirrhous state of it will most probably irritate the peritoneum j when mortified, it should also be remoyed, though Mr. Hey