253 LECTURE XXI. seen, in others, projections like fungus shoot out from the rest. In this state of the disease the pain is not only more constant, but more severe; although it is not very tender to the touch, and the application of the necessary dressings to the part excites but little sensibility. A very characteristic mark of this com- plaint, and one which serves to discriminate between it and other affections of the breast, is, that white inverted edge around the wound, which is of extreme hardness, owing to coa- gulable lymph being effused : there is frequent hfemorrhage, and from it the patient always experiences a degree of relief. The disease is very slow in its first stage, and in the ulcerative pro- cess, so that a patient may exist many years with no open can- cer: this, however slight, is some consolation , for patients to know, when there is no chance of affording relief by an opera- tion. When about to destroy life, it does so by its effects on the arm, ,the glands being enlarged, by their pressure on the blood vessels, prevent the free return of blood; a great tumefac- tion therefore takes place, and commonly an erysipelatous inflammation : if in this state of the disease a puncture is made, the fluid discharged will presently coagulate. The tumefaction, together with the frequent haemorrhage, soon destroys the patient by producing great prosti ation of strength. In true cancer the disease is much slower in its progress than when it does not assume its regular form. A cartilaginous substance is most commonly found, on dis- section, within the breast, very rarely any earthy matter. The disease mostly occurs in advanced periods of life, very seldom under thirty five y6ars of age ; mostly from forty to fifty,' and it has been seen to occur above the age of seventy. When a tumour, apparently of a cancerous nature, takes place before the age of thirty-five, suspicions may rationally be entertained whether it is a cancer or not; as, generally speaking, it is rarely malignant before that period. The operation has been fre- quently performed, I am sorry to state, when no such disease actually existed. It is at that period when the menses cease (which is considered critical to women) that cancer oftenest occurs. It is also found to take place in particular families. Blows are also to be reckoned among its principal causes, and 2