liECTURE XV. Iff examination in tlie Jirst instance, a small tumour will be dis-» covered having a strong pulsation, the skin undiscoloured, and generally unattended with pain: on compressing the part above the tumour, the sac most commonly can be emptied of its con- tents ; and this arises from the circulation of blood in the ar- tery being stopped in its course towards the sac. In the se- cond state, the tumour is solid, and of a firmer texture, and attended with a degree of shooting pain ; the parts below very often become cedematous, and are heavy, cold and pulseless. If the tumour is compressed above, although the sac yields a little, yet it will still remain prominent. There is a throbbing pain felt in consequence of the blood rushing from the orifice of the artery to the aneurismal sac, and an unaccountable sensa- tion of weight, pain and numbness through the limb; the cir- culation below the tumour is weak and feeble,, and the limb is deprived of a portion of its heat until the anastamosing branches enlarge, and allow an increased portion of blood to flow through them. On dissecting, the artery below is found to be considerably smaller than above the tumour. In the third stage, the skin becomes discoloured, having a reddish brown cast, the cuticle separates from the surface, and a desquama- tion takes place; under this there are commonly ulcerations. The portion of skin so discoloured loses its vitality, and forms an eschar; the process by which an aneurism bursts, is by sloughing: a small quantity of blood is at first thrown out, and the eschar proceeds to separate further and further, till at last from.repeated hemorrhages, the patient is exhausted: it rarely occurs, that it bursts so suddenly as to occasion imme- ,diate death. When sudden haemorrhage has taken place, it is possible to protract the patient's life for a few days, by the ap- plication of a piece of lint to the part, over this, adhesive plaster, and properly secured by bandage : it does not always break externally, it having been known to break under the skin, producing ecchymosis, and ultimately death from mortifi- cation. The seats of aneurism are various, and the symptoms are more or less violent and dangerous, according to the situation. "When in the cavity of the chest, the following appearance*