347 lECTURE XXX. Abscesses will occasionally form along the absorbent vessels on the dorsum penis; no mercury is necessary for their cure; they require to be opened early. ON IMPOTENCE, OR SEMINAL WEAKNESS. The disease thus named, consists in a discharge of mucus, or something resembling it from the urethra after the urine has been evacuated more particularly ; and at being at stool, espe- cially if the patient is costive. It is not semen as some have sup- posed, but the fluid contained in the vesiculae seminales : this hag been proved by experiments. Old men are often the sub- jects of it, and it is often supposed to arise from a venereal cause invariably, which cannot be easily determined, although Mr. Hunter was disposed not to think so. Patients labouring under this disease, are generally more affected in mind, being hypochondriacal, than in body, and suppose the discharge will drain them to death. It may be observed, that every organ of the human body, without exception, is made up of different parts, so formed as to produce a succession of actions and ul- timate effects; and if any irregularity in these actions takes place, it is what constitutes disease. The parts subservient to generation in man are two ; one immediate, which is the testes, the other secondary, which is the penis. It sometimes happens that the penis is too forward, becoming erect before the tes- ticles are subservient; and on the contrary the testes will throw out the semen before the penis is erect. Of the first, or priapism.—This is an erection of the penis without the mind or testes corresponding, and a violent gonor- rhoea will produce it: the sensation is a pain arising from an inflammation of parts. The spontaneous priapism is a very dangerous disease, and should be treated with powerful tonics, &€.; that arising from an inflammatory affection, generally gives way to the evacuating treatment, and the administration of opium. The second cause is more common than the former, and what is generally seen in practice. It is an irritability of the vesiculjB seminales, and perhaps of the vasa deferentia, which