LECTURE XII. U8 ed fluid, and filter through paper : dissolve the nitrate of silver (lunar caustic) in from nine to ten times its weight of distilled water, then gradually add a solution of ammonia, and a pre- cipitate will be formed: continue to add the solution of am- monia till the fluid again becomes nearly transparent: pro- cure a strip of glass, dip it into this last solution, and apply it to the first liquor supposed to contain arsenic. If a bright yellow immediately appears, it may fairly be concluded ar- senic is contained, as the arsenic is thus combined with silver. Bergman's test is this : a solution of vegetable alkali, as ths potass, carbon., is to be added to the suspected liquor (united with boiling water and filtered). Let it stand an hour or two ; then pour upon it a solution of the sulphate of copper, and if arsenic is contained, the copper will be converted into a beau- tiful pale green precipitate, which is Scheele's green pigment. Note. This deposit may be imitated by an infusion of onions, united with the carbonate of potash and sulphate of copper, which would produce an exactly similar precipitate. Other tests may be enumerated. If- a few grains of arsenic can be obtained from the stomach, and they are thrown on a red-hot iron, you will perceive a smell like garlic : if they are placed between two plates of copper, and exposed to an in- tense heat, the copper will be found whitened. Treatment. The object to be kept in view, is to evacuate the poison as speedily as possible; and a powerful enietic of the tartarized antimony, or the sulphate of zinc, must be immediately ad- ministered : j get the patient to drink plentifull}/ of mucila- ginous and gelatinous drinks, to sheath the stomach as much as possible. I have great doubts whether we can succeed in preventing the influence of either the sublimate or arsenic; al- though with respect to the oxymuriate, good may be done che- mically by giving an alkali, as it decomposes it. If this cannot be directly procured, give soap and water, or chalk. Alkaline salts are found to lessen the destructive effects of these power- ful minerals; such as the potass, sub-carb., or the potass, sul- phuret. If a decomposition can be fortunately effected, it will