LECTURE XIII. 163 flabby feel. This is owing to a quantity of extravasated serum: the flabbiness of the skin is not merely confined to the edges of the wound, but extends a great way over the scalp. The patient's countenance is much flushed, and on observing the eye, the tunica conjunctiva will be very red and vascular. There may be many alterations in the symptoms, in the course of twenty-four hours: at one time the patient will have a sunken countenance, and to all appearance in a dying state, but on visiting him an hour afterwards, perhaps quite the re- verse will be foutid. Vomiting commonly takes place, but the most certain mark of the formation of matter going on, is the patient being seized with violent shiverings, which often remit similar to those of an intermittent fever. The sooner relief is had recourse to^ the more likely is it to be attended with success. The seat of the matter is similar to what takes place in extravasation, namely, in three places : first, between the dura mater and the skujl; secondly, on the pia mater; and, lastly, in the brain itself. When situated on the dura mater, the only and quickest relief is by means of the trephine; the matter escapes after a little while through the bone. The perforator alone is occasionally used with success. This latter instrument is proper when the skull is very thin, as in very old, or infantine subjects: here the saw would be likely to wound the dura mater, which must always be cautiously avoided. I wish I could say, that the operation for the discharge of matter, when seated between the dura mater and skull, was always attended with success, or even in the majority of instances; but I am sorry to state, from what I have seen, that I believe there are but few that survive : and there is still less chance when matter is on the pia mater, much less in the brain itself; for if an opening is made through the dura mater, the probability is, that the patient will die from inflammation. THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. The instruments required are few: a knife with a double edge; two crowns, with perforators, one smaller than the other; an elevator, and a probe and brush. N I