LECTURE XXX. 352 tent has not been satisfactorily explained : if one side alone is hardened, there will be some difference, but not to any manifest extent. Sometimes the induration of the epididimis will proceed to suppurate and ulcerate, causing sinusses difficult to heal, on account of the semen being discharged through them ; these sinusses are similar to a wound of the salivary gland, and equally, if not more difficult to cure. A lotion, composed of six drops of the sulphuric acid to four ounces of water, applied to the part on linen cloths, and injected into the wound by means of a syringe, often will be proper. The sulphate of zinc and copper in solution are good applications. When the epididimis has suppurated, the virile power is much diminish- ed; if both, it is nearly lost. It is only in scrophulous habits that the epididimis thus suppurates. Persons who have once had inflamed testicles, are very li- able to a return of the complaint, on a second attack of gonor- rhoea ; therefore when this latter disease is again contracted, it is always much better to cure it by purgatives, and the anti- phlogistic plan, never using injections of any kind, although the case may be a longer time in being restored than if injec- tions were had recourse to.'- EXTERNAL GONORRHOEA. It is a rare occurrence that gonorrhoea is seen externally : the glandulffi odoriferas, surrounding the corona glandis, is the seat of it. Phymosis always accompanies the disease, attend- ed with much inflammation, and great discharge from under the prepuce, mixed with blood: the glans and prepuce are consi- derably swelled. The black wash made of lime water and ca- lomel, and a small quantity of the tincture of opium, is the best ppplication; or the acetate of lead and opium. These lotions should be injected under the pressure, as well as applied con- stantly to the parts by means of liYien cloths: it will generally subside in six or seven days. The parts must be kept very clean, and a purgative medicine taken every other morning. There are some cases of gonorrhoea, I am told, which have 4