76; , LECTURE V. certainly will disagree and prove prejudicial, under any form; while in others it will prove the most decided advantage.' Ward's paste is sometimes made use of with great success ; it is composed of the following ingredients, made into an elec- tuary:—Piper. Nigr.^ij. pulv.emul. camp. sem. foenicul. in pulv. aa Iss. Mellis Anglic, q. s. ut form, electuar. 5j. bis terve in die sumendus. This has been found very useful in sloughy and ill-conditioned sores of a scrofulous nature. Allow the patient a generous diet, and introduce aromatics in it; porter, good beer, wine or brandy may be given. On the subject of amputation: it is certainly not right to operate till after the complete separation of the dead from the contiguous parts, that is, until a line of separation becomes evident, and this is one point among the few, that surgeons are unanimous on; because, if you amputate before, you will still have the seeds of the disease in the system : but if mortification be the effect of a wound, or a division of an artery, then you may operate, as here there will have been no predisponent cause to gangrene; also when ulcers are very large and exten- sive, it may be done with advantage. Parts will often, as has been before observed, separate without amputation ; but if we have reason to suspect that the stump will be very long and tedious, or that it would exhaust the patient in the efforts to repair so extensive an injury, it will be preferable to take off the limb; if the mortification has been considerable, the cure would at least prove troublesome, the stump of a bad form, and ultimately of little utility to the patient. With respect to giving opium, I have omitted one circumstance, it will be bet- ter to give it before, than after gangrene has taken place. Mortification is often the result of an ossification of arteries; in old people it cannot be cured by any'^means that we are ac- quainted with. Mortification commonly attacks the toes and •extremities of tall people, for reasons easily explained, such -as a degree of torpor in the circulation of those parts, owing to the great distance from the heart, by which the blood is not sufficiently propelled into them. It now and then is seen to proceed from the most trifling causes imaginable. It has been known to come on from cutting a nail to the quick, (the nail of 3