120 LECTURE X. be employed, though with great caution, least the capsular ligament should be included ; for if this happens, unfavourable symptoms will arise. In the last case seen, although suppu- ration had commenced, the joint did not sufter materially, for the opening was closed up with the adhesive plaster, and the inflammation in the joint being very great, a saturnine poultice M'as applied all over the knee: under the plaster a portion of coagulable lymph formed, and which was, perhaps, rendered more firm by the action of the lead. Union by this means was effected, and the fluid eff used in the cavity of the joint was ul- timately absorbed ; so that even when inflammation has come on, it is even better to attempt union by adhesion. In cases of this kind we are to depend upon opium much, and this may be given in as large quantities as the constitution \\\\\ bear •without injury. Other topical means besides the poultice may be used, as leeches, &c.; and the antiphlogistic regimen must be here persevered in. When granulations have taken place in a joint, anchylosis ■will ensue, and it will be found to be of three kinds: First, when there are granulations between the ends of the bones and where the ligament is attached, adhesive matter is thrown out, (but is to be considered a very rare occurrence) which becomes vascular; for when inflammation has taken place, it seldom ceases before exfoliation ensues. Under the preceding cir- cumstances a little motion of the joint will be preserved, but if the cartilage covering the ends of the bones be absorbed, then bony matter is thrown out, and motion completely destroyed. Second kind, is that which arises from the bone being altered in its shape at the diseased ends, by little spiculse of bone arising from the extremities, and thus motion is prevented : but by passive motion of the limb, united by friction, we can produce absorption of these, and restore in some degree the motion of the joint. The third kind is that in which anchylosis is formed by bony granulation, aud the joint becomes fixed. WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. The Brain is every where surrounded with bone, therefore