206 LECTURE XVI. of the aqueous humour : the parts of the lens will be afterwards observed floating in this humour; if fluid, it will render it turbid—but in a short time, these appearances will be entirely removed by absorption. One operation will frequently ac- complish a cure; Mr. Saunders has been obliged to perform it five successive times in some few cases, but it should never be repeated under an interval df a fortnight at least; the inflam- mation is to be kept under by local, and even general bleeding, if required. Mr. Saunders seldom performed the posterior operation: his practice is far preferable either to Mr. Ware or to Mr. Gibson. This operation may be performed both on infants and adults with success, but the ages in which he met with most success, were from eighteen months to four years, those who were the subject of congenital cataract. The advocates for couching in preference to extraction, are numerous: I have detailed what appear to be the most fa- vourable modes of operating. To enter into a discussion of the advantages of one operation in preference to another, would only be involving myself in an endless controversy. I have the very best authorities for recommending extraction, but I beg leave to observe, let others do as I have done, think for them- selves, and not be biassed by any illiberal prejudices—writers of very great eminence support depression. ON THE USE OF BELLADONNA. Deadly night-shade, as made into an extract according to the pharmacopoeia of the London College, is a violent narcotic poison : it is only on account of the peculiar or specific virtue of this plant, that I introduce it in this place, as notice will be hereafter taken of it among vegetable poisons. One grain, dissolved in water, and applied either into, the eye between the eyelids, or on the eyebrows, causes a remarkable dilatation of the pupil, and the late Mr. Saunders made use of it with this intention: it discovers whether there are any adhesions of the iris with the capsule of the lens. After the operation for con- genital cataract, Mr. Saunders applied it externally, so as to