262 LECTUnE XXII. ligature then is to be removed from the femoral, and another ligature on Dr. Jones's plan is to be substituted. The integu- ments are to be brought together in a similar manner to what I have previously described. At the hip joint.—The operation here is nearly the same as below it—the femoral artery must be in the first instance se- cured, the other arteries had better be taken up as the opera- tor proceeds in forming the two flaps, which are to be carried further up, and instead of sawing through the bone, cut through the capsular ligament and ligamentum teres, and remove the bone from the socket. This operation I can venture to assert will try a young surgeon's nerves ; but 1 think the probability of success is equally as great as the determination of Mr. Cooper to secure the aorta in the abdomen. At the wrist joint.—It is a great object, when it can pos- sibly be done, to amputate at the wrist joint, as the operation is very simple, and the symptoms of irritation mucbless than when it is done below the elbow. First, feel for the styloid process of the radius, and one inch below carry a circular incision around the wrist, then dissect the integuments back to the styloid process, at which part, by turning the hand to the oppo- site side, the opening should be made into the joint, and the operation is easily effected. It is particularly necessary, in this case, to save sufficient integuments to cover the joint, as no union by granulation will take place if the cartilage is exposed, unless it is previously absorbed, which would be a long and tedious process, and the certainty of ultimate success would be uncer- tain. Three arteries are to be secured, the radial, the ulnar, and interosseal, now become the external interosseal. The foke-arm.—The operation here should be avoided as much as possible; I would much rather always amputate above the elbow, for the stump of the fore-arm is useless, and it is besides much more dangerous to do it, on account of the great number of tendons which must necessarily be divided, and which will suppurate and slough through the whole extent of the arm. This almost always happens, and instances have been seen of death occurring from it; if the fore-arm is to be removed, it is desirable to do it as near the elbow as possible, because here