103 LKCTURE VUI. from the ulnar artery; it should be taken up with a tenaculum, for though no nerves are present here, yet the tendons being muneroirs and small, may be accidentally included in the liga- ture. When this vessel is divided, where it passes down be- tween the thumb and fore-finger, on the back part of the hand, an incision must be made on the lower extremity, and it must be tied; as the other end is apt to be retracted among the tendons, it is recommended to tie the vessel on the fore-part of the wrist, where the pulse is felt. The femoral artery is occasionally divided; it must be tied under the edge of the Sartorius muscle, as in the operation which will be detailed hereafter for popliteal aneurism : avoid- ing the anterior crural nerve, and the femoral vein. To tie the popliteal artery, accurate knowledge and great presence of mind is required, as the vessel lies so very deeply imbedded in the muscles, the sciatic nerve must not be taken up instead of the artery. Mr. Cline saw a case of aneurism where the nerve was taken up instead of this vessel, and included in the lower ligature, the consequence of which was the death of the patient speedily. The nerve is much more superficially seated, and is on the outside. The popliteal vein is between the two. When the posterior tibial artery is wounded high up, the operation is attended with a great deal of difficulty in the per- formance. An incision must be made four inches in length: this will lay bare the gastrocnemii muscle, the fibres of which must be divided transversely, in order that they may retract and allow of more space for the surgeon to find the vessel; ihey should only be cut across, on the inner side, as the artery is situated here ; the posterior tibial nerve must be avoided. A person who did not well understand the anatomy of the parts, would be deterred from operating, and be inclined to use lint and sponge, but which ought to be reprobated, as in two in- stances of this kind, where these were employed, mortification ensued from the high degree of inflammation induced by then* remaining in the wound. When the artery is wounded lower down, it may easily be found just behind the malleolus internus. In wounds of the interosseal artery, Mr. Hey, of Leeds, re- i