INTRODUCTOKY LECTURE. 12 SO Strongly prevailed against such a mode of education. This prejudice v as gradually overcome, and it is found to have been the case much sooner in France than in any other country. The French professors were the first who established Institu- tions for dissections, and so unusual was the practice in this country, that those surgeons who were desirous of prosecuting their knowledge of the animal economy were obliged to visit a foreign country to obtain their purpose. In Edinburgh this difficulty exists to a very considerable degree at this present moment; for although medicine is taught there so well, tliey are but too frequently obliged to resort to this city for their ana- tomical education. In England, Anatcirny was very little known, and but badly taught, till the time of Hunter (a name that will always be ut- tered with respect and reverence), and to him this country is in- debted for the very great improvements made in his time, not only in our anatomical but surgical knowledge. He was master of the anatomy of the human body, as well as its several func- tions; and saw that it was the only foundation of surgery; alid that, to be learnt, practical reference must be had to the body alone. He thus infused into his pupils the ardent desire of tracing the steps of so distinguished a teacher; and, not satisfied with the pre-eminence in which he was held by all Europe, it was his wish and his ambition to make his pupils as skilful as himself, and it is in this respect his public character has become so extensively useful in the station which he filled. The basis of all Surgery consequently must be founded on Anatomy. This is essential in two points of view, 1st. In the performance of operations; and, 2dly, In distinguishing dis- eases. For no one ought or can perform an operation without a knowledge of anatomy. Amputation, indeed, is trifling ; and except securing the arteries properly, may be performed by any one; but the operation for Lithotomy, that for Aneurism and Hernia, must never be performed but by the correct anatomist. Men have been seen, in performing the operation for the Stone, to push the gorget between the rectum and bladder; the forceps introduced, the stone laid hold of through the coats of the bladder, and forcible, but necessarily vain attempts made to