LECTURE XXV. 293 nizance, he states, the stricture has been in the tendon of the transversalis, and all that is necessary is, after the integuments, &c. have been divided, to pass a director into the abdominal ring and cut directly upwards, though it may be equally safe to make the incision inwards / but the other, as a general rule, should rather be adopted, because, being attended with no risk, it is not worth while to deviate in the least. Inguinal hernia is not so frequent in the female as in the male : when in the former it constantly takes the course of the ligamentum rotundum, anterior to the iliac artery, and behind the tendon of the oblique, and appears at the ring in them : it is rarely of considerable size ; the largest I have ever seen was in Guy's Hospital, and the attention of students, some years ago, was directed to the case by Mr. Cooper; it reached half way down to the knee, and it had an opening at the anterior part, which discharged feculent matter. This hernia in the reduci- ble state requires the same kind of truss as in the male; in the irreducible, a bag truss; and when strangulated, a similar ope- ration to that described for the male. There is, however, some kind of difference as to the coverings of the hernia. The tu- mour appears in the labium, and in dividing the integuments to the most depending part, you will expose the covering given off by the external oblique; after its division the sac directly comes in view, as there is no cremaster muscle, so that more caution is requisite here. In cutting open the sac, it is preferable to do so at the lower part, as there is commonly much water found there. The stricture is mostly found at the upper opening, be- tween the pubis and ilium. The finger can be readily intro- duced three quarters of an inch into the sac without enterin? the abdomen; after it has passed up to the mouth, carry upon it a probe-pointed bistoury, and dilate the stricture towards the ilium; but if any doubt should exist, do it upwards. Should any fear arise with respect to the intestine being entangled, it would be advisable to divide the tendon of the external oblique up to the mouth of the sac, which will expose the stricture; but this should be avoided if possible, as future inconvenience is likely to arise. The truss to be worn after the operation is the same as that in the male. X 2