LECTUBE I. 31 Case. An instance contrary to this, of considerable injury ivithout fatal effects, was seen in the person of a brewer's ser- vant, who was run over by a dray; his elbow joint was opened, the bones fractured, and the artery separated from the bone. As he would not consent to an operation, although strongly advised to do so, the wound was closed, it soon healed, and he recovered. To relieve constitutional irritation, when excessive, or arising from the injury of any vital organ: 1st, take away blood, in proportion to the strength and plethoric disposition of your patient. Qndly, Restore the secretions of the liver, kidnies, skin, and intestines. In^children give calomel and antimonials, for nineteen dis- eases in twenty in them are inflammatory, and this is the best medicine to restore perspiration, &c.; bathe the feet in warm water; by these means you take off the momentum of the blood, and give a healthy action to the secreting organs. In adults, it will be better to give calomel and saline purges the following morning. 3dly, Lessen the nervous irritability by opium, combined with some sudorific. And, 4thly, Guide your patient's diet and regimen. The influence of some passions of the mind, as grief, anger, fear, &c. are evident to us all; and their influence, on diseases, being increased, must be observed with peculiar care and attention by the practitioner. Their effects are almost incre- dible. Gnc/disturbs the stomach, and is a depressing passion; it lowers the pulse, and particularly affects those organs whose actions are languid, such as the liver, frequently producing in it obstmctions and disease. Anger has an irritating effect, quickens the pulse, but renders it thready ; it retards the cure of disease in general, of inflammation in particular, rendering ulcers ill-conditioned and sloughy. Fear augments the quantity of urine, and has the most extraordinary effect of all; from it diseases, not otherwise attended witfr immediate danger, prove fatal. Initances of this might be enumerated in fractures of