LECTUEE VIII. 10! 12 wounded surfaces into apposition, thus dlowing of the forma- tion of a coagulinn of blood within the artery, exciting inflam- mation, and causing an effusion of lymph, Avhich glues the clot to the sides of the vessel; the using and applying ligatures, so as to divide the two coats, seems to be the desirable end to xyhioh we should be directed; as when applied to an un- wouuded artery, a complete obliteration of the canal will be effected; hence broad flat ligatures, as used formerly, are to be objected to. The ligature ought to be round, firm, and not too thick, and applied as circular as possible, and drawn round the vessel with sufficient tightness, then apply a knot; always tie a large artery as separately and distinctly from sur- rounding parts as possible; and Dr. Jones coincides in opi- nion with Mr. Abernethy, that it is the safest, and best to use two ligatures, and to divide the artery between them, in cases especially of aneurism; and when large arteries are divided, thi^ plan ought to be pursued; ligatures usually separate from the largest artery in about a fortnight, from those of less size, in six or seven days. Never use force to detach them, but gentle efforts may be attempted, at each dressing, after the above period has elapsed. When an artery is divided, or becomes impervious, blood is supplied to the limb, thus deprived of its nourishment by the principal trunk; by means of the enlargement of,the collateral or anastamosing branches. When the accident happens in the carotid artery, the jugular vein must necessarily be divided. OF SECUEING THE ARTERIES. The carotid artery may be tied without disturbance to the functions of the brain. Hebenstreit mentions a successful case of this vessel being tied, wounded in removing a can- cerous tumour. Mr. Abernethy secured this artery, wounded, in a large lacerated wound on the neck; but his patient died. This experienced surgeon recommends the incision to be made on that side of it next the trachea, where no important parts are exposed to injury, carefully avoiding the par vaguni in the ligature. The subclavian artery has never been tied above the clavicle,