LECTURE XV. 179 Kext to this, tlie inguinal is the most connmon. Aneurism of the carotids is not so commonly seen, and when it occurs, it is "-enerally from pressure; thus it is that porters are so liable to it. That of the axillary artery, opposite the os humeri, generally proceeds from the same cause. Subclavian aneu- rism is rare, but very few examples have been seen, and their origin has not been so satisfactorily traced; hence, it may be justly said, it is seldom seen in these arteries. Instances have occurred of the internal pudendal artery, the posterior aural, and occipital arteries being subject to aneurism. In some persons there appears to be a disposition to aneu- rism in different parts of the body, so that an operation in them is seldom attended virith success, as the disease is liable to form in another part of the body. With respect to the prognosis to be drawn in regard to the different situations of aneurism, they are most favourable when seated opposite to joints, still less so in the thigh, but the most unfavourable of all, when in the aorta; the reason is, that the former most frequently proceed from mechanical causesy and not, as in the latter, (though this is not always the case) from any previous disposition in the body from imperfect structure to the formation of them; but however favourable the prog- nosis might be, aneurisms are by no means to be neglected, as they are always to be considered dangerous frotn whatever cause they may arise, or have arisen from. Their Mode of Formation.—The appearances that aneurism ^fesent before the parts yield, are these : the coats' 6f the artery are much thickened, of a yellowish hue, and 6pake,as if they had been subject to an inflammatory action from an injury, or disease, by which tiliey become weakened; the thickness, with its opacity is owing to the lynlph thrown out; th6 part is commonly tender to the touch, arid easily broken down by pressure. After this a process of absorption commences op- posite to v^here the opake spot is, coagulable lymph is effused, and the circalating blood pushes this before it. Hence, the sac in aneurisrh is formed by the facial sheath on its outside, and by the coagulable lytoph on its inside. As it increases in sxte the sheath becomes absorbed, the coagulable lymph s6on o