LECTURE XXVIl. 317 The third species is outwards: in this case the foot is turned inwards on its edge, and the malleolus internus is broken olF. The extension must be made as before. The leg must be put to rest on the malleolus internus, and if found to be an uneasy posture, it may be changed, and rested on the externus on a pillow, letting the foot hang over: — it will be some time get- ting well. Observations. After the reduction of each of these, splints are to be used: ihany prefer the limb to lie altogether on the out, not the inside, in a bent posture^ treating it similar to a fracture. The gastrocnemii, and other strong muscles, must be relaxed in reducing these dislocations. COMPOUNB DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE JOINT. A surgeon's character is in great hazard in such a case as this, and it is a most important point in practice here, as well as in compound fracture, to endeavour, after the dislocation has been reduced, by every means to elFect an union by adhesion. Patients have been known to die so early as the seventh day, from the surgeon's trying to save the limb, and at other times, where the appearances were quite as bad and unpromising, the limb has been saved and the patient recovered. Now, I will suppose, for a moment, in such a case, the limb was to be am- putated, from a conviction in the surgeon's mind of its being the best and safest practice; the patient's friends would, perhaps, say that the limb had been removed unnecessarily, and if he should, notwithstanding, chance to die after such an operation, they would say the surgeon had killed him. On the contrary, I will suppose he had tried to save the limb, and the patient had died; they would be ready to say, the surgeon did not un- derstand his profession, and that the limb ought to have been taken off. Now, in such embarrassing accidents, be guided by the following rules. If the patient is old, amputate;—if an adult of a bad habit of body, amputate ;—but if an adult of a good constitution, try to save the limb, duly considering the