LECTURE XIll^ 161 iloes not derange the functions of the brain—^j'et a simple frac* ture may require trephining, when evident symptoms of extra- vasation exist. In compound fractures, with depression, it will be proper to trephine, whether there are any existing symptoms or not; on this principle, that it is required to pre- vent succeeding inflammation. Many labouring under evident marks of compression have been known to have remained so for some months, and recover after the cause had been re- moved. An instance of this occurred in a sailor, who had fallen from the yard-arm of a ship; he was carried into the hospital at Gibraltar, but not recovering there, his friends brought him home: a surgeon was consulted, and on examin- ing him, he was satisfied there was some pressure existing, which had produced and continued those symptoms of com- pression under which he had laboured for six months before: he was trephined, and the result was favourable. This case evidently shews, that there will be beneficial effects even from the late use of the trephine ; and I only mean to shew, that if the operation should not have been performed in the beginning, yet it will prove advantageous when the cause has long existed. We should recollect, when the trephine is proper, to operate before inflammation comes on, as afterwards it would only hasten the death of the patient. Two boys were brought into an hospital, with fractures of the os frontis, with symptoms of compression : one had active inflammation, and in this state he was trephined ; he survived but a short time subsequently: on dissection, very great vascularity and detension of the ves- sels of the brain were apparent. The other boy was trephined, previous to any inflammation, and he did well. Fractures, with depression, sometimes injure the brain, and are in general fatal:—but instances have been known to the contrary. A man was brought into St. Thomas's Hospital with a fracture of the OS frontis, accompanied with depression, and part of the bone pressing through the pia mater: it was elevated to ita proper place, and the man recovered: this case merely shews, that what in general may be considered as desperate cases, sometimes are known to do well, so that there may be always a glimmering hope entertained.