LECTUTIE XII. 138 who was seized with liydrophobia, in a day less than twelve months after the bite of a cat. You will find that the action of vegetable and mineral poisons depends upon the quantity introduced into the system, as it is known, when administering them in small doses, they act as remedies; but this will not hold good with regard to morbid poisons, as the minutest par- ticle inserted will produce the original disease, which may be frequently seen in the small-pox. Dr. Fordyce, however, thought by dilution its powers was weakened, but I have not had sufficient proofs adduced to submit implicitly to this opi- nion, although it appears very rational. Some poisons require a susceptibility or predisposition in the constitution for their action: in the small-pox this is certain, though not so in syphi- lis: this is not readily explained, for though the predisposition be destroyed, yet we can trace no obvious explanatory cause. There are several examples on record of persons having had the small-pox twice; in general, however, the predisposition is lost by having the disease once—hence we hear of some few solitary cases of the inefficacy of the cow-pock, as a preventa- tive against variola; it may be attributed to a similar cause, and ought not, with justness and fairness, to militate against the general advantages we derive from so inestimable a disco- very, which has immortalized the name of Jeuner. By fre- quent repetition of lues venera, the body gradually becomes less susceptible of it. Very few diseases can be inoculated. The small-pox, cow-pock, chicken-pox, measles, &c. may be produced thus, but some are not rendered milder by its adop- tion, as for instance the measles. A man was employed in the neighbourhood of Yarmouth to kill wasps, because he was never known to have felt the least inconvenience from their sting: some time after this happened he was met accidentally, and it occasioned some little surprise to hear him say, that he had latterly suffered extremely from the sting of these insects; and, on inquiring the reason, discovered that he had been afflicted with an ague some time before, which had produced a total change in his constitution, and rendered him as susceptible as another person. A case came under my own observation iu the person of Mrs. Francis, who had been stung on the arm,