285 LECTURE XXIV. afterwards he waited, when called in, only two hours, and tried bleeding and the tobacco enema, and in nine cases he lost only two ; he says he has since performed the operation, when his work went to the press, thirty-five times, and he has often had occasion to lament that he performed too late, but never that it was done too soon. Hernia strangulated has been seen to prove fatal in the short space of twenty-four hours. Mr. Ast- ley Cooper tells us there is scarcely any period of the symp- toms which forbid the operation ; bnt pain on pressing of the abdomen and tension, he believes call for its immediate adop- tion. Mr. Lawrence says, when the rupture becomes painful, and a suflBcient or moderate pressure cannot be endured, the operation is immediately necessary. Operation. As soon as the time is fixed for performing the operation, which will be determined entirely by the judgment of the prac- titioner and the existing state of things, such as extreme ten- derness of the abdomen, indicating peritoneal inflammation, or other symptoms not so alarming, yet rapidly increasing : at all events as little time should be lost as prudence would dic- tate, for on the speedy, and I may remark early execution of it, will depend all future chance .of success; in fact, I firmly believe, the generality of failures may, in a great measure, be ascribed to its being resorted to too late: at the same time I am of opinion, that prior to using such measures or means as I have previously mentioned, the operation should not be at- tempted, as there is a chance, that from the process of inflam- mation in the abdominal cavity, the patient dies: hence the old practice of a radical cure has been abandoned, for this rea- son, that though the inflammation was not present at first, yet it was induced in the operation: therefore let the patient be well reduced, as in this case the result will be more favour- able. There is, however, one exception to this, viz. in old people, 'where the loss of much blood would be unnecessary, as in them there is a less disposition to inflammation than in the young and plethoric. A good deal of management is now and then requisite to get the patient's consent to the perform-