355 LECTURE XXX. weeks before the discharge appeared, and this case shews that the disease cannot be communicated but by matter, for he had connexion with his wife before the running appeared, and was very mucti afraid he had given the disease to her: this, however, did not prove to be the case. Many of the gonorrhoeas met with by men in practice, Mr. Hunter thought, were occasioned by the fluor albus, which is sometimes extremely acrid, and by stimulating the parts, might produce a discharge from the urethra. Young girls from two, to twelve or fourteen years of ao-e. are not unfrequently attacked with a discharge from the organs of generation, similar in every respect to thal^resulting from the poison of gonorrhcea : it proceeds from the glands between the prepuce and clitoris, and is of a scrophulous nature, happening only to children that are evidently of this habit of body, or those belonging to the poor, who are neglected and dirty. 1 met with a case which was strongly suspected to proceed from a different cause by the parents of the girl, but which I firmly believe had no such origin, as it gave way to cleanliness, the application of lime-water and calomel, and purgatives occasionally given, which will be the practice to be pursued in all such cases. ON GLEET. This disease, which is extremely difficult to cure, is a com- mon consequence of gonorrhoea in both sexes. Gleet is a dis- charge from the urethra, ceasing to communicate, as many think, a similar affection, on having connexion with another: respect- ing the period when gonorrhoea becomes gleet, and thereby is un- able to create infection, much difficulty exists; indeed, it is almost impossible to draw limits of duration justly. ' Five mojiths have elapsed between a man cohabiting with two women, at two different times, and yet he communicated to the second woman the disease. I have known a gentleman who took no pams to get rid of a gonorrhcea, have it as a companion for ten months ; he had it nine times before, and defied any of the boasted clap doctors to cure him as expeditiously as nature generally had, previously; in fact, he had paid five pounds to BB