LECTURE XI. 126 spine, having passed through the rib. Case II. A young lad was accidentally shot at Walworth by some volunteers while tiring at a target. It appeared as if the ball had passed under the scapula. In about nine months he felt a kind of knob in the arm ; and on feeling it, no doubt could be entertained that it was the ball which had worked its way thence. A long in- cision was made near the deltoid muscle, and it was extracted. From these cases it will then appear, that if a ball can be easily taken out, it should be done; but if not, it is better to allow it to take its course, as Nature is found very kind in her operations, and lead causes less irritation"than any other sub- stance in the body. An ARTERY divided by a gun-shot wound does not bleed as in other injuries, and the reason is, that a fringe of cellular membrane is formed at its end, and within this a coagulum forms, whereby the haemorrhage is stopped; but though there is no immediate danger, yet a distant one may be apprehended, so that it would be extremely unwise in a surgeon to state with, confidence his opinion that no bleeding will come on, althou<Th the wound be ever so slight. An officer who had been shot through the leg appeared to be doing so well as to be directed by his surgeon to walk about, and without the tourniquet, and from the increased exertion hjemorrhage came on, which proved fatal before any one could assist him. In case an artery is wounded and a ligature is necessary, remember to put it on much farther up than you would in other divisions, or you will not prevent subsequent bleeding during the sloughing process. Although a small artery will not bleed so readily as when di- vided with a knife, yet an haemorrhage may occur sufficient to destroy life; if the artery is partially divided, it bleeds as freely as if made in any other way. It is on the separation of the eschar that a secondary haemorrhage is to be apprehended, and although they may not have been originally divided, yet they may suffer so much contusion and violence as to slough with other parts. The eschar may not affect the whole of the coats of an artery, but they become weakened and give way at its separation. When a ligature is made it should be passed at least an inch abpve the wound, so as to allow space for the sloughing process.