LECTURE HI. 38 The second, is from the effects of poison. Of the first kind is gout, which is an inflammatory action in the joints and tendons, and an earthy or chalky matter is se- creted. This depends on the pecuharity of the person's con- stitution, which causes that particular m\A peculiar action of the vessels, which in common inflammation would produce pus. Cancer is another of a similar kind, produced owing to some peculiarity/ in the constitution which we are ignorant of, and is generally most frequent about the cessation of the menses in women. A blow, however, may so disorganize Ae structure of parts, as to produce it in some constitutions, which shows that it does not depend upon any specific poison, but is the result of a peculiar action, throwing out a cartilaginous sub- stance, instead of coagulable lymph, and sometimes a por- tion of earthy matter in it: it likewise exists often in the uterus. Fungus hematodes is also the effect of a peculiar action of the vessels; it begins by a small blue tumour, which after a short time bursts, and a soft fungus grows rapidly, the lymph effused is soft and pulpy, and the vessels shooting into it grow luxuriantly and very quickly, having no resistance opposed to them; but cancer grows slowly, the substance effused being hard and with difficulty penetrable. Specific inflammation, as the* result of poison, is by no means unfrequent; as the venereal, small-pox, cow-pock, ru- beola, scarlatina, and hooping-cough; the matter produced in these is of a specific kind, and capable of communicating a si- milar disease. Thus, in chancre, the ulcerative process is pe- culiar, true pus being rarely if ever secreted ; it is a thin acrid sanious fluid: indeed, when true pus is discharged, it is a mark that the disease is overcome, and the part is returning to a . healthy and natural state. The edges of a chancre are very different from those of a common wound, being thicker and particularly jagged, and easily known at first sight; in this case, the process of inflammation is not performed. Scrophulous inflammation comes nearest to the common; but in this case the ulcerative process is slow, and the matter composed of curds and serum, with the edges of the wound turned to each other. It is generally the result of an original