LECTURE XXIV. 278 that he felt himself justified in stating, that spots will be found on the intestine; of which, he had seen an instance, in a wo- man who came under his care some little time previously. Sometimes an emphysematous feel attends this inflammation; and this is occasionally occurring, in consequence of the in- testine yielding. If the mortification is suffered to take its course, sloughing of the scrotum and intestine, is the result; by which the fjEces are evacuated at the wound. It is seldom patients are strong enough to get through this process, nine- teen in twenty dying before : nature, however, sometimes suc- ceeds, but the instances are very few. Vomiting continues from time to time, and at last becomes so frequent, as to cause an inversion of the peristaltic motion of the intestines, and it is said, that the faeces are ejected; but this is impossible to take place, as the valve, situated between the small and large intestines, prevents it. What is vomited is generally a greenish cast, produced by the quantity of bile thrown up with it. When the symptoms of strangulation have existed for some time, the tumour is more tender to the touch, and the abdomen becomes tense and painful. I should rather consider hiccup as a symptom preceding the approach of mor- tification, than of its actual existence. The pulse at length intermits—the patient is all along exceedingly restless, and ap- pears extremely anxious and distressed; and from the constant varying of his position, to endeavour to procure relief, becomes very much exhausted. The pulse continues intermittent, and the tumour is less painful, which is generally a certain sign of the actual existence of mortification, and the sickness also is less frequent: here a surgeon may be misled : the sudden abatement of the vomiting—pulse soft—skin cool—with scarcely any pain upon examining the tumour—and the pa- tient's stating his being a great deal better, and comparatively easy, are very deceptive, and might be erroneously attributed to a total cessation of the strangulation, by those who have had but little experience: a patient has been known, under such circumstances, to be declared out of danger, and in five hours he died: however, in general, their death is not so rapidi but in twenty-four hours they inevitably expire. If