240 LECTURE XIX. staff into the bladder, taking the staff in the left hand to serve as a guide; these instruments are immediately to be withdrawn, and you are presently capable of feeling the stone: introduce a pair of forceps rather curved—the reason for the curve is, that the stone is mostly situated on the upper part of the va- gina, behind the meatus. In passing the forceps, depress them at the part where the handles unite, as much as possible with one finger, as this will greatly facilitate the stone being raised from under the pubis: if there is any difficulty found in ex- tracting it, pass one finger up the vagina and tilt it into the bladder, and then it will easily come away. Incontinence of urine often takes place subsequent to the operation ; to remedy which, Mr. Hey of Leeds has proposed a. very ingenious method, and one which he has practised with success. The principle of it is to introduce a substance into the vagina, for the purpose of pressing upon the cut wound after the operation, in order to produce an adhesive inflammation of the sides, and render the meatus urinarius of its original size; this is to be attempted as soon as the healing process has be- gun : the woman is directed to draw it out when she wants to void urine. It has been thought very highly of in the pro- fession. STONE IN THE PROSTATE GLAND. There are two kinds of calculi found; one originally formed in it, the other passing from the bladder and lodging in the ure- thra within the prostate. The calculi generally found are small, and their composition appears to be chiefly phosphate of lime; they are situated between the follicles of the prostate, several of them emitting from a bag, which is easily felt per rectum. In the Urethra.—Calculi are found situated in three different situations in this canal; but chiefly in the membranous part, at the place where the bulb of the penis commences, and which, by being so narrow, is often Entirely choaked up by them. When called to a patient labouring under the symp- toms of stone in this part, and which will readily be ascer-