158 LECTURE XIII. ally: the limbs are pliant, from the relaxation of the muscles : the pupils of the eye are much dilated. When the brain of a living animal is compressed by the finger, for example, it excites immediately an uneasy sensa- tion, from which the animal endeavours to extricate itself: on pressing harder the animal becomes irritated: on still further pressure the pulse gets exceedingly slow: on withdrawang the linger a severe giddiness follows. From this experiment may be seen, what effect compression on the brain has upon the human species. Compression is commonly the result of three causes: the first is extravasation of blood, or serum ; the second depression of bone; and, lastly, the formation of matter.. When, from extravasation, the symptoms come on gradually, and according to the quickness that the fluid shall have been effused. After a blow has been received, the result of which is extravasation. It is found, on opening the cranium, that the extravasated fluid may be situated in three places: on the dura mater, on the pia mater, and in the substance of the brain itself. In the treat- ment of this accident, viz. from extravasation, our principal objects must be to guard against inflammation, and promote absorption: the symptoms may not be so violent in the first instance, so that the patient recovers from the first attack, and may continue, perhaps, tolerably well for two or three days: but this seeming recovery must not put the surgeon off his guard, and prevent his using active depletion, as the patient otherwise will sink under the compression caused by the ef- fused blood : blood-letting I consider as the best and shortest step to take, and must not be done with a sparing hand, unless it is directly contra-indicated. With respect to the use of the trephine, in two states of this injury, it will be improper; first, when the effused fluid is on the pia mater; and, secondly, when in the brain itself: it will only be found beneficial when situated between the dura mater and the skull itself; and it is evident, that the use of the tre- phine is of very little use in the two first states, as it is impos- sible, alter the opening has been made, to discharge the con- tained fluid without the greatest hazard.