61 LECTURE IV. no appearance of inflammation followed ; openings were also made into the chest and abdomen of the same animal, and with the like result. Also it is found, that if the lungs are wounded by any sharp instrument, the air immediately escapes from the bronchial cells into the cellular membrane, pufiing it up, as was the case in the experiments made on the dug ; and yet after the air has been absorbed, no traces of inflammation could be discovered. The cause of it then is truly this, that of dividing the vessels, which, exciting irritation, produce a change in the parts so acted on. Fomentations and poultices may be con- tinued to be applied after an opening has been made, until the granulations nearly fill up the cavity, when the simpler the dressings are the better. ON UNION BY GRANULATION. Granulations are those substances which arise from wounded or other injured suifaces, as suppurating wounds or surfaces of ulcers. Their formation is after this manner; when an abscess is opened, coagulable lymph is deposited, which lines the internal surface of the abscess; after a few hours this lymph becomes vascular; and after the expiration of five or six days (but this depends on thp age, constitution, &c.) the whole sur- face that is hniug the abscess is found to become highly so ; the vessels open on the external part of the coagulable lymph, and their termination is in its middle, or internal surface ; from the orifices of these vessels, after a little time has elapsed, is depo- sited another layer of lymph, and thus layer after layer are successively formed, till at last the whole cavity of the abscess is filled up. The difference existing between this mode of union and that by adhesion is this : that in the latter, the vessels do not shoot forth from their orifices ; and in the former, the vessels throvir out pus at the same time that coagulable lymph is eff'used. Granulations are entirely new substances formed from se- creted matter; they are extremely vascular, from the various arteries passing in radiated forms on their surfaces ; and it is principally owing to this circumstance that they appear so red, which is their colour when healthy J when livid, or of a pale