132 LECTURE XI. incision should be made, and every small particle wiih the greatest care removed—the two extremities are then to be brought into contact, and will unite, though the limb may be shortened. This injury, of all others, requires dilatation, as the incision will prevent the formation of an abscess:—by this method being accurately pursued, the amputation of the limb might be prevented. If a ball wounds a small joint the patient will generally die from extent of inflammation, and if the bone is splintered there is no chance of saving the limb: in the knee or ankle there need be no hesitation in operating. It was tried with success to save the limb, when the elbow joint was splin- tered in the hospital at Toulon. If the person is intoxicated during such an accident, and the operation is performed immediately in this state, there is little chance of recovery; Dr. Babington mentions, that out of twenty-four operations on board of ship, during the last war, only two recovered thus situated. It would therefore be right, if possible, to wait till the patient got over the inflammatory and the commencement of the suppurative stage, which may be done iu every injury but that of the knee joint and ankle, where it would be right to amputate immediately. Amputation performed in full health is similar to removing a branch of a tree hi summer, when it is in full foliage ; it affects the health of the tree much more than when removed in winter, so in man an operation will succeed infinitely better when the constitution has been gradu- ally brought from a plethoric to a lower state. This treatment refers only to the lower extremities. Operations on the upper are not so fata). A wound in the arm may require immediate amputation, atid the patient will generally do well: the larger the part removed the greater the danger, i. e. amputation above the knee is more dangerous than below it. After the battle of Fontenay the Royal Academy of Surgery, in 1756, adjudged to Faure the prize in cases of gun-shot wounds, where amputa- tion was necessary, for assigning when was the most proper time to operate. Faure tells us, that after this battle, out of three hundred amputations thirty only were followed with suc- cess. His plan was to delat/ its performance till the first effects had subsided from the injury/. Our celebrated countryman, 4