88 LECTURE VII. in each nostril, until it gained power to support itself: in the course of some clays the integuments thus brought down will unite, and the nose appear a very good substitute for the old one. The scar on the forehead will remain long a mark; but in time it will not be much perceived. In about,24 days after the operation the part which remained whole and twisted round may be removed at the root of the artificial nose, which clearly proves that inosculation must have ensued between the vessels of the nose and those of the cheek. This operation has been successfully performed in the west end of the town very lately. In animals it has been found by experiments that parts which have been entirely separated, and even transplanted to another animal of a different gender, will unite, and become supplied with blood vessels from its new possessor. Some analogical experiments of Hunter led him to take up the fanciful opinion, that he could convert a hen into a cock, by taking out the testes of the latter and inserting them into the abdomen of the for- mer. This he actually tried, and though he did not succeed to the extent of his wishes, yet inflammation taking place, the new substance introduced was supplied with blood from the hen, and remained united there ; yet nothing further was observed with respect to the change in the sex. The tooth of an animal just extracted was inserted into the comb of a cock, and this being bound on, united, and remained firmly attached and adherent, being supplied with vessels from that appendage. Mr. Lucas, of Guy's hospital, has a preparation in which the spur of a cock being inserted into his comb, it has not only united to this, but even to the bone of the cranium. With respect to similar analogical experiments on man, they have not been carried to a sufficient extent; yet Hunter ascertained that a sound tooth taken from the alveolar process of one per- son might be transplanted into that of another, and unite. Garengeot mentions a case nearly similar to some of those which have latterly been published, of parts of the body being entirely removed, afterwards replaced, and uniting. He says, a soldier's nose was bit off completely, but on being directly restored to its original situation, it became united. A marvel- lous ca^e has been told of a man having his nose completely