60 LECTURE IV. chilliness, which are succeeded by flushes of heat and copious perspirations; his pulse is small but frequent, with an unnatural moisture of the skin, indicative of debility ; urine pale, and rather copious, depositing a sediment; tongue dry and parched; indigestion, vomiting, and diarrhcea. This fever, as has been previously remarked, depends on local irritation : we must first diminish or remove the cause before it can be expected to cease ; do that, and it ultimately will vanish. H unter says, when an incurable disease in an ex- tremity is removed by amputation (such as a scrophulous affec- tion of the joints where the suppurative process has been tediously prolonged) the hectic fever immediately begins to abate. I have known, says John Hunter, a hectic pulse at 120, sink to 90 in a few hours, upon the removal of the cause. I have known persons sleep soundly the first night without any opiate who had not slept tolerably for weeks before. I have known cold sweats stop immediately, as well as those called colliquative. I have known a purging stop as suddenly on the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment. The practice in these cases is plain enough : but where our patients are reduced to the lowest state of debility, by some incurable local disease, as in lumbar and psoas abscesses, &c. &c. this plan cannot be pursued ; we must therefore endeavour to support the person's strength, and invigorate his vital powers, both by the aid of medicine, and diet, by the most powerful tonics on the one hand, as bark, acids, &c. &c. and by nourishing and nutritious food on the other, combined with cordials and aro- matics. Sleep may be procured and pain alleviated by narcotics, as opium, cicuta, &c. Resuming the subject of abscesses, we are not to be sur- prised to find inflammation come on in a few days after an abscess has been opened, as this is commonly the case. It was generally believed that the admission of air was the cause of it; but this we are certain is incorrect; and to prove it, there •was some time since these experiments made; a trocar was passed through the skiu of a dog, and then inflated with air, yet