LECTURE XllV. 280 is requisite^ in operating) to divide them withoiit injuring thfe bowel. Treatment. \Vhen called to a patient labouring uhtfei- strangulation, thb iirst, and primary object, is to replacie the parts in their na- tural situation, as medicine will avoid nothing. To attain this end, what is to be attempted is the taxis, which means efforts properly applied to reduce and return the prolapsed parts with the hand. It is to be performted thus : place the patient in a recumbent posture, with his shoulder and knees considerably elevated, and the thighs bent to the trunk, so as to relak as much as possible t^'e abdominal muscles and fascia of the tkigh; then supposing the tumour to be on the left side, em- brace it with the right hand, while, with the finger and thumb of the left hand above the hng, move them gradually from side to side, kneading in a manner th'e tumour, and at the same iitiie making steady pressure with the right hand: it is not to be ex- pected that it will go up suddenly, but in a gradual manner : ihte direction of the surg'eon's efforts must be in the course of the canal, that is, upvVaVds and outwards : these efforts may be continued from a quarter to half an hour. It is observed by Mr. Lawrence, in his treatise bn this disease, that sometimes it is attended with success to draw the tumour downwards. In the taxis, much force should not be uSed, as the intestine may be burst, of which several instances are on record. Though there is no doubt success cannot follow, in the majority of cases-, Vvithout the taxis repeatedly tried, yet it is not always equally proper to attempt it directly, without first having re- course to other means. I will suppose, for instance, a strong young man has a strangulated hernia of a sudden, in conse- quence of lifting a heavy Weight, and on approaching his bed- side he is found in much pain; here the taxis ought not to be had immediate recourse to; blood should be as expeditiously dra>)vn aS possible, and cold applications made use of: by these means an eaby ^return will be accomplished. In cases where the patient complains of much pain, surgeons have been under the necessity of abandoning the taxis and bleeding freely, when \