gOg LECTURE XIX. Query. Has this medicine any specific effect on the nerves, as it is found to be eminently serviceable in tic doloreux and other affections in affording ease ? In some of Mrs. Steevens's cases it would appear from Dr. W. Hunter, and others, that the calculi were not actually dissolved, but rather incased m a cyst, as they are often found, and were not capable of irritatmg the bladder as formerly ; and they might be compared in these instances to a ball, or any other extraneous body, which is known to remain for years in the body perfectly inactive when lymph becomes effused so as to form a complete covermg. Aerated soda water may be given—the aerated kali.—The liquor. potassK is attended with similar good effects, especially when the bladder is irritable; it is better to combine it with opium. Acids, such as the sulphuric or muriatic, may be also found beneficial. In some cases they have but little effect, as has been satisfactorily proved, where they have not only been administered by the mouth, but also in a very weak state by injection. The greatest benefit that has been found to arise from injection of any medicine into the bladder was the tmc tura opii: uva ursi has been much spoken of. A decoction of the garden leek is used, and also the root carefully dried in an oven, and powdered. It is in those cases where the bladder is very irritable, accompanied by a diseased secretion, that most surgeons decline operating. ON THE SITUATIONS AND SYMPTOMS OF CALCULI. Urinary calculi have been found in five different situations; first, in the kidneys; secondly, in the ureters ; thirdly, m the bladder; fourthly, in the Srethra; and fifthly, m the prostate eland, arising in two several ways, either by passmg from the bladder, or originally formed in the gland itself. When in the kidney, it is known by pain m the loms oppo- site to the kidney affected; this is increased by pressure or bending the body, as in stooping, &c.; but if the stone is not large there is a peculiar sensation felt as if something was rub- bin, in the loins of the affected side, occasiomng a considerate degree of uneasiness. When any considerabk exertion, or