LECTURE XXII. 260 having secured the artery with the tourniquet, push a catUii under, and through the muscles, posteriorly to the fibula, bring- ing it out at the opposite side; then measure the quantity of integument necessary to cover the stump, and cut downwards close to the bone, by a longitudinal incision, as far as is re- quisite for this purpose: let this be intersected by a semicir- cular incision. A semilunar incision must then be made on the opposite side, which must depend upon the want of in- tegument, as to the extent it should be raised. The iuter- osseal ligament is now to be divided with the catlin, and then the bones are to be sawed through with the convexity down- wards. There are three arteries to be taken up: the anterior and posterior tibial, and the peroneal. The integuments are then to be brought together with adhesive plaster. The cir- cular operation is to be thus done: ascertain the quantity of integuments necessary, which will depend upon this circum- stance—if the limb is wasted from disease, two inches will be enough; but if after an accident amputation is necessary, never less than three or four inches. Make a circular incision six inches below the knee joint, so as to cut through the integu- ments and fascia at the first stroke of the knife, taking care not to touch the muscles ; then dissect the integuments back from two to tour inches, and retain them in that posture while the muscles are cut through by a similar circular incision, close to the retracted skin; then with a catlin divide the interosseal ligament, and saw the bones through about four inches below the patella: while this is doing, an assistant must hold the limb in a straight line with the thigh, otherwise the bones will be liable to be splintered. The same arteries require securing, and the same after treatment as in the flap operation. Ob- seroe.—In both operations it will be best to saw both bones through at the same time. Above the Knee.—Compressing the artery properly, and the limb supported by an assistant, a circular incision should be made immediately above the knee joint, or as near to it as possible, so as not to cut into the latter: If the disease requiring the operation is scrophula, the incision must be made higher up as the cbllection of matter pushes the tendon of the rectus ^* 4