lECTURE XXX. 350 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTES. Inflammation of the testes arising from gonorrhtea, has been absurdly termed hernia humoralis by most authors; why, or wherefore, may rationally admit of a volume of controversy. The symptoms which denote the approach of this affection, are, a sense of irritation towards the interior termination of the urethra; as the gonorrhoea! inflammation proceeds down the canal, and arrives at the perineum, there is a sensation felt as if a drop or two of urine lay at that part, which causes the un- easiness felt there; almost immediately on the last symptom being perceived, the testicle begins to be afi^ected : there are shooting pains felt along the course of the spermatic chord, about the abdominal ring: the inflammation passes down to epididymis, and fixes there: it is this part that is chiefly af- fected. When the inflammation in the epididimis has arisen to a considerable height, the body of the testes inflames, and be- comes much swollen, hard to the touch, and very painful on pressure : the pain extends to the crista of the ilium on that side, and also to the groin. The structure of the scrotum is redder than usual, and touching it occasions pain; and if the testicle hangs down and not supported, it is very much in- creased. Sometimes there is much constitutional irritation, but this depends upon the habit of body of the patient. The disease originates from the inflammation extending along the vas deferens to the epididymis, along its mucous membrane. I am not of the general opinion, that it is caused by a sympa- thetic affection. Any circumstances occurring to cause irri- tation at the termination posteriorly of the urethra, will have the effect of exciting the disease. Thus, powerful injections, walking to great distances, or riding during the inflammatory stage of gonorrhoea; drinking freely of vinous or spirituous liquors; passing a bougie into the bladder in irritable habits, will induce it, by touching the orifice of the vesiculae semi- nalis: strictures, independent of injections, or bougies, will bring it on : therefore this last being known, if no other cause is very evident, ought to raise a suspicion of its inducing the disease. As this disease is so liable to happeu from gonor-