238 LECTURE XIX. pain and tenderness continue: doses of castor oil, or emollient glyster, should also be administered. ON LITHOTOMY IN FEMALES. Wome.n are much less liable to calculi than men, and the reason appears to be, that from the short, and almost straight course of the urethra, they are more apt to be carried off by ^ urine; not but they are equally subject to these formations as meu. The first symptom of stone in the bladder, is a burning heat felt at the extremity of the meatus urinarius; also an ex- cessive bearing down of the uterus, with frequent inclination to go to stool: in other respects the symptoms are similar to men. Women will sometimes pass calculi of great magni- tude, even in some instances so large as from two and a half to four ounces. I remember once a very singular case related, where a large stone, in its passage through the meatus, stopped half way, and forced a cavity for itself, one half in the meatus and the other in the vagina, and the surgeon who operated was under the necessity of introducing his finger per vagina to ex- tract the stone, and on examination it was found to be nearly of an equal size in the meatus and vagina; that is, it was half in one and half in the other. As impositions often occur, it is necessary to be on our guard. Several cases could be de- tailed bearing on this point. In one, on examination, a pebble was extracted: in another, a young woman was admitted into St. Thomas's Hospital, having, as it was supposed, a retention of urine; the deception was carried on for some time, and at last it was agreed that an operation should be performed; ac- cordingly she was brought into the theatre for that purpose, and bound as usual. On Mr. Cline's introducing the sound, he thought that he perceived something between the stone and the bladder, and having examined again, he was further con- vinced of it: on this he introduced his finger per vagina, and extracted successively nine pieces of coal. These are merely detailed to put operators on their guard. Women with dis- eased ovaria are most prone to these kinds of impositions. It has been mentioned by different authors, that the meatus