LECTURE XVI. 209 above 3ss. of the former to Ibss of the latter, wili be requisite : if an ointment should be preferred, the uug. hydr. nitr. united with lard, or Janin's opthalmic ointment, about one part of it to three of lead, applied with a camel-hair pencil on the edge of the eyelids. In the second stage, where inflammation has extended to the formation of an abscess, which has not burst, it will require an operation, which consists in opening the sac, and giving vent to the contents; then pass a probe into the ductus ad nasum to force the stricture, and then put in a pin, or style, to keep it open. Mr. Ware was the first person who performed the operation, which is as follows : having felt for the ridge of the orbit, about one-eighth of an inch behind it, on the lower edge of the eye, is situated the lacrymal sac; then carry a probe pointed bistoury, or a phymosis knife, with the point, immediately into the sac; then the probe is to be used with a little degree of bearing and force, so as to overcome the stricture; and to ascertain whether it has passed into the nose or not, pass a director under the inferior turbinated bone, you touch the probe, then withdraw the probe, and introduce a style, with a flattened head to it, into the passage, the head of it is to rest upon the inner canthus of the eye; to be certain, however, then, that the passage is clear, it will be right to di- rect the patient to blow his nose, and if it is so, a bloody matter will be found on the handkerchief. If there comes on much inflammation, direct the patient to keep on a poultice for a few days. As to how long the style ought to remain in the ductus ad nasum, must depend upon this circumstance—as long as any matter, or purulent discharge is kept up, or even capable of being squeezed out on pressure, so long it ought to remain, and sometimes it is necessary to let it stay for the space of three months longer. The end of the style gets flattened, and pro- duces but httle inconvenience or deformity; it should be with- drawn frequently, and warm water injected through the passage. Mr. Ware has thought, generally speaking, six weeks to be long enough to allow the style to remain, but the practitioner must he guided entirely by circumstances in this respect. If from the long existence of the disease the nasal duct is per- fectly obstructed, either from ossification or any other cause,