3§14 LtlCTURE xxvin. the parts, with a secretion of a thin matter; it is often here so slight as not to be much noticed. Case. Mr. B. was connected with a woman in town, and perceiving a running four days afterwards, consulted Mr. Hun- ter, who, on examining him, found the glans excoriated, and discharging matter, but did not suspect it to be occasioned by impure coitu, till other circumstances set the case clear. It is seldom extended from thence to the urethra. The most pro- bable way the poison atacks the urethra is this, that it is either translated from the glans to it, or at least, from the beginning, or lips of the urethra itself, along its inner surface. It is not possible to conceive that the matter could be conveyed far into the urethra in the act of coition. The case of Colonel B. strongly corroborates this—he received infection and had a bad gonorrhoea from sitting on a necessary in Germany and getting a plaster of gonorrhoea! matter (which some person had left there) on his penis. When it attacks the urethra it seldom, extends farther than an inch and a half along the canal. S?/mptoms, when in the Urethra. The first symptoms a patient experiences, is a titillation, or itching sensation in the urethra, as if a drop of urine remained in the passage. A small quantity of mucus is discharged on pressure. In twenty-four hours a considerable serous discharge will be found to have taken place; at first, not at all purulent, but in a few hours it assumes this character, having a yellowish appearance; and is composed of a number of globules very similar in its nature to that of pus, with the exception of its being poisonous. The discharge soon changes from a yellow to a greenish colour, and is often mixed with blood. The dis- charge, when examined on a cloth, assumes various hues, the circumference pale and the centre thicker and of a deeper colour, and it is probable that these diflferent tinges depend most commonly upon the extravasation of a small quantity of blood. The matter has a smell seemingly peculiar to itself, and there is ^ great tendency in it to putrefaction, being produced by an unhealthy inflammation. During a very high inflammation m the urethra a considerable quantity of blood has been often lost;