LECTURE XXXI. 366 arsenic finely levigated: the warts are to be sprinkled with it, which is to be allowed to remain on, taking care to avoid the adjacent parts from touching the arsenic by means of lint, ap- plied previously all round. It destroys the warts by inducing inflammation and suppuration. In the male, this application will seldom, if ever fail; but in the female, from the great num- ber which are occasionally met with upon the labia, it has. In these it had better be applied on lint, in the form of ointment 5j. of arsenic to^j. of lard, every, or every other day, according to the degree e(f inflammation produced by it—if great, a poul- tice ought to be applied. A powder commonly in use for these excrescences, is one composed of savin, as before detailed, but j^tis much inferior to arsenic. Warts have been seen seated on I the corona glandis; these, by pressure, have found their way through the prepuce, and in course of time, the glans have made its way through this opening; this will require an opera- tion similar to that of phymosis, or that of circumcision. Warts in the male seldom or ever become larger than a walnut, but, in the female sex, they are not unfrequently seen much larger. VENEREAL BUBO. This affection takes place most frequently upon the side on which the chancre is seated; but this is not always the case, for I have known one of the glands in the groin enlarge when the chancre was situated on the opposite side of the penis. It is extremely rare to find more than one venereal bubo on a side: occasionally more than one gland is enlarged, but it is only in one that the poison exists; and the others enlarge from irrita- tion, not from the application and communication of venereal matter. One chancre will now and then (though rarely) occa-. sion a venereal bubo on each side. The symptoms are merely those attendant upon inflamma- tion of a gland from any irritating cause being applied to the absorbents which enter it, with this exception, that here there will be an increase of pain in the inflamed part towards even- ing and at night, and this is the case in aliliost every variety of the venereal disease.