iECTURE XXX. 351 rhcea, it will be as well always to desire patients to support their testicles by means of a bag-truss, made of silk netting. Even when passing or using bougies for the cure of strictures, it will be advisable that patieiits should keep their testes sup- ported. Treatment. It will consist in the suspension of the testicle, the liquor.: ammon. acet. applied by means of linen cloths to the part, and the admuiistration of purgatives; as calomel with the cathartic extract, or calomel at night, and the sulphate of magnesia the following morning. If the inflammation should not be re- moved by the perseverance of this method, a leech or two should be applied to the testes every morning, and afterwards warm fomentations and a poultice : the patient must keep in a recumbent posture. Should these means fail, and the in- flammation still continue violent, general bleeding from the arm must be adopted in addition, the number of leeches in- creased, and the reclining position strictly attended to : fo- mentations must be frequently employed. It will occasionally be requisite to repeat the general bleedings twice or thrice. If a hardness should remain in the epididimis after the inflam- mation has abated, fomentations of vinegar, as warm as the patient can bear, will be serviceable: if it should be obstinate, the ung. hydrarg. c. camph. must be rubbed on, and small doses of ca- lomel and antimony given internally, either alone or combined with cicuta. When the hardness gets into an indolent state, the patient will frequently get tired of these remedies, and a bag, made to fit the testes, of oiled silk may be substituted; it acts similar to a poultice, by inducing a great flow of perspir- able matter ; and in effecting the reduction of the enlargement, It will be far preferable to any plaster, and will be of the most decided service; indeed, when applied to tumours of an indo- lent nature m any part of the body, it is of singular advantage. « I'atients will often express some anxiety to know whether this hardness (which will often continue during life) will occa- sion any diminution in their procreative powers. If the epidi- dimis on both sides is enlarged and hardened, it will have the e»ect of lessening the secretion of semen, though to what ex-