LECTURE XII. 149 be extremely desirable. Orfila says, the albumen, or wliite of ecro- is the most powerful and efficacious antidote for the oxy- muriate. Should success attend our efforts, the subsequent in- flammation must be kept under by copious bleedings, blisters, and the olium ricini as a purgative. It is a curious fact, that if arsenic or the oxymuriate of mer- cury is injected into the jugular vein, ihey act on the stomach, and produce inflammation of it, and intestines, as if introduced at once into that organ : a solution of the latter was injected into the jugular vein of a dog; vomiting soon came on, and death: the stomach and also the intestines were inflamed. Afterwards a similar experiment was made with arsenic, with nearly the same result. If injected into the arteries, all the living powers are speedily destroyed, and violent contractions of the muscles are produced, which render them white. It should be recollected, a solution of the stomach, appO" rently occurring from injlammation, and gangrene, is not indiscriminately to be considered, in that light, and this caution is particularly necessary when called in to inspect the body of a person who has suddenly expired. John Hunter first no- ticed this circumstance; a more accurate observer probably never existed: he found that the gastric juice alone was ca- pable of dissolving the coats of the stomach after death. This was found the case in those who suddenly were deprived of life in the full enjoyment of health and vigour, and in those who died from long and protracted disease. Neither on the other hand should it be hastily inferred a person did not die from poison where its presence could not be detected, as the me- tallic poison might be so evacuated by vomiting and purging, as to leave no trace of its actual existence by chemical analysis. Lead appears to act spasmodically on the stomach and bowels. On opening a man who had taken a considerable quantity, the intestines were found burst, and the cellular mem- brane inflamed with air. The spasmodic action sometimes goes to that extent as to rupture the blood vessels in the stomach, occasioning an excessive haemorrhage. A little sulphuric acid will detect the presence of lead, which is precipitated in th^