LECTURE XXX. S44 sometimes afford relief; as this can be done without much trouble, it should be adopted in the early stage. The aq. kali pur. c. tinct. opii is found to be of very essential service; but generally speaking, all the means that can be adopted are only productive of temporary relief, unless the irritation is subdued in the first instance. The irritability of the bladder will now and then go on to suppuration, and this leads to a communica- tion between it and the rectum : when this happens it may be ascertained by a considerable portion of lymph, in pieces about the size of a shilling, folded up, passing off by the urethra; also there will be a quantity of blood, mixed with mucus, coming away. The urine has a very foetid smell, similar to the faeces; the patient loses his strength; in a short time purging conies on, which soon terminates his existence. The most de- plorable case the author ever witnessed was, Mr. D. Griffith's, hatter; a communication was formed between the bladder and rectum ; it healed for a short time, and there were great hopes entertained of his recovery; but from some exertion or other, unnecessarily made, the new ly fornied substance gave way : it soon ended fatally. He was under the care of Doctor Cheston, of Gloucester, for a long time. Treatment. Independent of the injection of opium, the patient should drink plentifully of mucilaginous drink and soda water, especi- ally in the first stage. When ulceration has occurred, introduce an elastic catheter into the bladder, so that the urine may con- tinually dribble away, thus keeping the bladder completely empty, which allows the lips or edges of the ulcer to come into contact, and an opportunity given them to unite, which, by a contrary plan would be prevented. The two principles to be held in view, are, to keep the rectum clear, by the frequent use of cooling laxative glysters; and the bladder free from urine, by nieans of the elastic bougie. The administration of the bals. copaib., or the aq. kali pur., combined with opium, constitutes the medical treatment. The plan laid down by Dr. Cheston was a powder composed of the pulv. tragacanth. comp. and the