398 LECTURE XXXII. splints, which though not so good as pasteboard in simple fracture, yet are here much better in several points of view. The position recommended in simple fracture, may be observed generally in compound, though this must vary, according to the situation of .the wound. On the outside and on the heel will be the best positions for the leg, if circumstances will admit of it; but if the wound is on the outside, it may be placed in- wards. It is very desirable to unite the wound in compound frac- tures if possible by tfie adhesive process, by which the fracture is changed into ajsimple-one, capable of being cured in a fourth part of the time which would be required to effect it, if the wound was to be filled by granulations. This being the prin- cipal object, it must always be attempted, unless the wound is accompanied with contusion of the soft parts, so as to commu- nicate with the bone. If there is contusion, apply a poultice, in order to facilitate a quick discharge from the wound. If the wound which constitutes a compound fracture is caused by the ends of the bone, or by a sharp instrument, it may mostly be united by adhesion: adhesive plaster of any description should never be made use of, but place a piece of lint accurately over the wound, and when this becomes moist with blood and dries, it will effectually prevent the access of air; it should be as- sisted by compressing the sides of the wound together by means of a roller. I succeeded some time ago in the case of William Samuel, a mason, working on an estate of the Earl of Ashburnham : the compound fracture'was of the tibia and fi- bula—previous to my arrival a considerable hasmorrhage had occurred. When the fracture was reduced, I attempted union by adhesion, and although the wound was lacerated, it united perfectly. DIFFICULTIES MET WITH. The first difficulty is when the bone is much comminuted or splintered, as here the danger will be increased; by a careful and cautious" examination this will be known ; the pieces thus detached or loose are to be removed, observing the greatest de- 4