LECTURE XXXII. 3gg not the least tendency or share in producing the union between the ends of the bone; towards the fourth day, inflammation commences in the bone, and this process pours out a jelly-like substance between the bone and periosteum ; this effusion con- tinues from the fifth until the tenth day, and constitutes the new callus, which is exactly similar to that substance into which ossific matter is deposited by the arteries in the fcetus, resem- bling very much cartilage: ossific matter is deposited by the ves- sels m this substance in patches, without any regular order bemg apparent: the earthy matter is found to consist of animal gluten and phosphate of lime. Thus a fracture is united in the same way that bones are originally formed. When fractured bones are united in direct apposition the jelly-like substance becomes poured out of the mouths of the vessels in a circular direction around the broken ex- tremities of the bone, and the ossific matter is deposited in this cartilaginous substance : but, if the fractured ends are not directly m contact, the cartilage thus formed, does not com- pletely cover the broken ends, and the parts thus protrudinc. are taken up by the absorbent vessels. ° Callus newly formed, is very vascular, but in a similar man- ner to those in a cicatrix, the vessels here become diminished in their diameter in the course of time. This callus consists of a solid substance and cancelli. A new periosteum is also formed over It, being an elongation or production of the orio-inal peri- osteum. When two portions of bone are laying in contact the periosteum covering and intervening between them, is taken up by the absorbent vessels. In the formation of this callus it sometimes happens, that it is deposited in a superfluous quan- tity; even to such a degree as to produce an increased size in the bone: this abundance is arising from a very extensive lace- rauon of the parts, which induces an undue degree of inflam- matoo^ action ,n the vessels depositing the ossific matter; in order to repress Its growth, in the first instance, endeavou; to allay the inflammation by the application of leeches to the cir- cumjacent parts, and afterwards when the entire inflammation has subsided, by pressure and the empl. ammon. c. hydrarc When the fractures are oblique, callus is slow in being deposit- D D 2