36 LECTURE II. tients are restless for two or three nights, from the effects caused in the inflamed muscles. Tendons, when inflamed, slough to a great extent, and the reason of this seems to be, the weaker part or action of the living powers in them being diminished; thus, if an abscess forms in the finger, and the tendon becomes exposed, it will slough through the whole extent of the abscess. The nerves are very rarely inflamed, when it happens, the pain is constant and violently severe, increased on the least motion, and may be known by the tremor of the muscles below it. Inflammation in glands, if general, stops their functions, but if partial their functions continue. In theaffiection of the liver no bile is secreted. In the viscera it affects their different functions; thus, in the stomach, there is a violent pain and vomiting, constipation, tremor, and ultimately hiccup. In inflammation of the viscera, the pulse is generally quick and small; this has deterred many surgeons from venesection in these complaints ; but without it, in my opinion, there will be but a very little chance of saving the patient's life; but it must not be done sparingly, unless in very feeble and debilitated habits indeed, otherwise no good is done ; we generally find the pulse rise in proportion to the ex- tent of the bleeding. We should likewise make use of local applications; such as cupping, leeches, blisters, &c. The warm bath is highly use- ful also. In inflammation of the lungs, there is great difficulty in breathing, pain in the side and head, pulse slow, labouring, and full. On dissection, we generally observe the cellular substance distended with grumous blood, and a serous fluid aud coagulable lymph in the cavity of the thorax. In inflammation of the heart, the pulse is peculiar, feeling double its natural diameter, and very hard; if it be on the inter- nal surface of the pericardium, the pulse is fluttering. In inflammation of the brain, there is great pain in the head, redness of the eyes, delirium, pulse full and hard, and an extraor- dinary pulsation observable in. the carotid arteries, which you should always take notice of. Here artenotoniy, or opening the jugular vein, gives relief sooner than bleeding in the arm.