LECTURE XI. 1'24 the constitution are not good, and the contusion extensive, will be improper; but in general it will be right to bleed plenti- fully, and if after the first bleeding the pulse becomes full, a second bleeding may be resorted to, especially if the wound be near any vital organ. It should, however, not be carried to any imprudent excess, as tetanus is a likely consequence of these wounds, and the great weakness induced would render the living powers unfit to sustain the discharge from wounds of this nature. The Peruvian bark is of great advantage to be judiciously administered. We should purge sparingly, as it is often difficult to check it. Anxious to ascertain whether a person suffered much pain or not at the time of receiving a gun-shot wound, numerous inquiries have been made, from which I have learnt, that unless the ball struck against a bone, the person was not in the least sensible of his having received an injury ; but if a bone was struck, the sensation of a strong shock was communicated to every part of the body; and this was seen to be the case in a duel fought by a Capt. Lewis : he was severely Wounded in the legs, and fell as if he had been struck by a forge hammer. Having got rid of the inflammation by the adoption of the means recommended, and given due support to ojdr patient by rather a liberal and generous diet, combined with tonics, the healing of the sinus will be our next endeavour; and this some- times takes a long time, from the inability of stimulating the centre of the wound. Under these cases it is proper to intro- duce a little of the hydrarg. muriat. dissolved in water, the tinctura lytta, &c., so as to excite healthy granulations; or a bougie smeared with the hydrarg. nitr. rubr., so as to stimulate the inner surface of the sinus. Some advise setons, but they do more harm than good, by laying the foundation of an ab- scess. If, notwithstanding these means, we do not yet suc- ceed, and the sinus remains of considerable depth, the best phn will be to make an opening into the middle of it, so as to form two cavities, whereby union will be effected. In cases where the ball is lodged in the body, a greater degree of consideration is required, and one might naturally infer, that the first step to be taken would be the extraction of it, or^