116 LECTURE X, after tlie accident. On examination it was found, that a. coaguluin had formed, and completely filled up the wound ; but on the man's first going to stool, a second hiemorrhage took place, and he was found dead sitting on the chair. The late Mr. Saunders saw a case where the man, who was the subject of this accident, received a stroke with a sickle upon the chest, between the sixth and seventh rib, rather nearer the sternum than the nipple; the man in the first instance did not appear to suffer much from the wound, and it was closed and went on well—but in a short lime symptoms of hydrops pericardium came on, and he died. Ou examination after death, a clot was found in the pericardium, which was alone wounded, and the whole internal surface of this membrane was inflamed.— Wounds of the heart always prove fatal, and it is generally supposed immediately, but this is not uniformly the case. Patients have lived under these circumstances several hours, but the wounds of course have been but small.. If the heart has been ruptured it is impossible to preserve life, even a fevr minutes : this accident sometimes happens in old age, absorp- tion of the substance of this organ taking place near the coro- nary valves: King George the Second died from this cause. Wounds of the aorta and vena cava prove more suddenly fatal than those injuring the heart. WOUNDS or THE THROAT. These wounds require in their treatment a great deal of ana* tomical knowledge, as well as prompt decision. Considering the distance from the chin to the sternum as nine inches, when the chin is extended, we are led to class wounds happening to those parts into three kinds. In the first three inches from the chin, downwards, may be comprised almost all those wounds occasioned by persons attempting self-destruction : it is seldom that the oesophagus is wounded here, and in one case where such an accident happens may be seen thirty cases of wounds of the pharynx. Wounds above the os hyoides penetrate into the mouth. The incision made by persons attempting to de- stroy themselves is generally too high up to wouud the carotiJ