LECTURE XI. 133 Hunter, coincided in this opinion—we must either operate previous to the inflammatory systems, or wait till after the sup- purative process has commenced; these are the only two periods at which it would be prudent to adopt such an opera- tion—and I think the inference is clear, that if a limb cannot be preserved the sooner the better it is adopted: why suffer the patient to run the risk of sinking from the effects of the injury; the violent commotion in the system attendant on the attempts at its restoration must be great, the constitutional suf- fering excessive, the dangers of mortification and deatii staring us in the face—by its speedy adoption we convert an extensive contused wound, with fracture, into a simple incised one, and I should consider it a wilful neglect on the part of the surgeon if he hesitated. The celebrated D. J. Larrey has written a valuable work, in three octavo volumes, wherein this subject is introduced, and this long debated question, in my opiuion, very satisfactorily decided—that operating before the appearance of the primary symptoms is by far the most safe and successful; and although Faure was supported by so great an authority as John Hunter, I trust none will be found so illiberal as to Be obstinately destitute of conviction of error. D, J. Larrey, by his speedy operating, saved three-fourths of his patients, of which several had lost two limbs. On primitive amputation he says, " when a limb, which has received a gun-shot wound, cannot be preserved, it must be amputated immediately; the first twenty-four hours are the only hours of calm which nature enjoys. Secondly, ^the danger of a long continuance in the hospitals is less, by converting it into a wound capable of a speedy cure. Thirdly, when the patients are obliged to be - ' abandoned, and the operation is performed, the dressings may remain several days on with benefit to them. D. J. Larrey enumerates eight cases, in which immediate amputation will be necessary. First, a limb carried away by a shot, splinter, or shell. Secondly, when a body propelled by gunpowder strikes a limb, in such a manner that the bones are crushed, the soft ■?. parts greatly contused, lacerated, and carried away to some depth. Thirdly, if the same body should carry away a great portion of the soft parts, and the principal vessels of a limb, L 2