249 LECTURE XX. soda in the room and dissolved, possibly, as much as two scru- ples or more in water, which he drank ; but to the last day of his existence he will remember the consequences: his stomach was distended amazingly, as if he had been blown up ; he was not relieved till the disengaged gas, which had so enlarged his stomach, gradually escaped. Mode of Operating. The method of dividing the nerve, should it be determined on, is thus ; supposing it to be the sub-orbitar, feel for the under edge of the orbit, and half an inch below and opposite to the middle of it is situated the foramen, through which the nerve passe?, then carry into this foramen the point of a sharp-pointed bistoury or phymosis knife down to the bone under the nerve, then lifting up the point of the knife, in drawing it out, the nerve is completely divided. To be certain of which, however, inquire whether the patient feels a numbness or not on the side of the nose and upper lip ; if so, then we may be assured it is effectually done; but if, on the contrary, he does not, then it may be necessary to divide another small twig arising from it — a trifling haemorrhage commonly takes place. The opthal- mic branch is to be divided thus: this nerve passes near the inner extremity of the upper eyebrow — the knife is to be directed for the upper and inner edge of the orbit, and in with- drawing it the division is effected.— If the inferior labial nerve, the bistoury must be passed on the inner side of the mouth be- tween the gum and the teeth. Alum dissolved and taken into the mouth will afford in this case some degree of relief. In a case where the anterior tibial nerve was affected, caustic was used with complete success, not by dividing the nerve, but irri- tation produced on the skin. When the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves is the seat of this disease, the operation is of no avail, as the branches are so numerous on the face: but for the preceding situations it is sometimes successful, although in the majority of instances I think it is not so ; and I have known the pain recur before the numbness had ceased, which commonly takes place in about three months. Tic dou- loureux seldom occurs in young infants. /