LECTURE XXXI. 379 The venereal virus is sometimes taken into the system by means of inoculation ; in this case the disease is extremely ir- ritable and inveterate, and also serious to the person who has it. Practitioners of midwifery are very liable to it, and several cases could be related of this kind. The constitutional fever runs so high occasionally, that the patient's life is endangered by Its continuance, in which case the symptomatic disease must first be attended to, and then the primary. GENERAL REMARKS ON SYPHILIS, AND ON ITS TREAT- 'MENT. From what I have detailed of the venereal disease as to its various symptoms and appearances, it is evident that only some parts of the body are liable to be attacked with it, and these are, comparatively speaking, but very few, the greater number escaping infection by their being unsusceptible of the com- plamt: thus the skin, or rather the integuments of the penis the glands situated in the groin, the parts contiguous to the throat, the skm generally, the eyes, and some of the bones are the only parts of the body which are liable to the disease. The vital organs, as the brain, the cavity of the thorax and of the abdomen, the blood-vessels, the nerves, &c. are never affected with It. It is a wise provision of nature, that this poison in its passage through the lymphatic system to the blood-vessels only should affect a single gland, or at most two; was this not the case, many, ,f not every patieut who contracted the dis- ease must perish from the suppuration of the numerous glands which the virus passes through in its progress to the thoracic ClUCt. The symptoms of the venereal disease are divided into two distmct species, the primary and secondary. Of the first chancre and bubo may be enumerated ; but the latter ought to be ranked as an intermediate description of symptoms. The secondary are the diseases of the throat, skin, and bones. Thus then there are, one primary, one intermediate, and three se- condary. The venereal disease, when classed properly, is simple, and