151 LECTtTRE XIII. tendon is very slow going into an inflamed state, but when it does, is very subject to mortify. I have seen from a blow on the head, which a person received, and from the stminiug effect of which he recovered, matter, form under this tendon, and make its way under the eyelids, so as to enlarge them so much as to prevent the person from seeing: the matter had a com- munication with the abscess by means of the cellular membrane. Master Edw. Davies came to me with a simple wound on the forehead, and adhesive straps were applied. In the course of a week he was sent to me again; the wound had almost shut; both his eyes were nearly closed; a collection of matter was evi- dently the cause; the wound was enlarged considerably, and a poultice ordered to be applied; and this is the treatment to he ■pursued. The incision must be a free one. The temporalis is covered by a particular fascia or aponeurosis, which is at- tached to the cranium and zygomatic arch; it is a dense ten- dinous structure. Inflammation will occasionally take place in the cellular membrane, between this fascia and muscle, which will continue until the formation of matter, which is very liable to make its way under the zygomatic arch, and burst into the mouth. Sometimes inflammation will proceed so far as to set up an ulcerative process, which affects the bones, and large portions of those diseased will come away. The coronoid process has been known to exfoliate from it. The symptoms are a slight tumefaction in the temple, great pain in the lower jaw, so as to prevent the patient's eating; the redness is not always apparent, so do not be deceived by this. If inflamma- tion is considerable, blood should be taken away in a general way, and locally ; the bowels are to be kept open, and if the inflammation still continues, bleed from the temporal artery. If matter forms, a free incision should be made through the aponeurosis, so as to allow of a sufficient outlet for it to es- cape. Contusions on the head I have known to produce an extra- vasation of blood under the tendon of the occipito frontalis, and from the deceptive feel which it had, caused two surgeons to mistake it for fracture with depression. The case I allude to, happened when 1 was an apprentice; ihe cause oi it was