LECTTT»E XXVIII. 321 the matter that it first received stimulated, as it were, the part* to secrete and wash it off; but this does not succeed, as the irri- tation still continues, and the consequent inflammation occa'? sions a continuance of it, and a succession of the formation of the same pus. The virus is not obHged to the pus, but to the specific inflammation for the continuance of the action. Some have asserted that the matter in gonorrhoea arises from an ulce- rated surface; now, although this might be found to be the - case in a few instances, yet, having examined many after death without finding any appearance of ulceration, Mr. Hunter could not but conclude that it is far from being the case in general; besides, if it depended on ulcers, these could not be expected to heal without the use of mercury, whereas, every one who is at all acquainted with gonnorhoea, now knows that it can, and ought to be cured without a grain of this medicine. Gonor^ rhoea differs very much in the degree of violence of the symp- toms in diflferent constitutions, some being much more aff'ected than others : when mild it may be called simple ; when violent, complicated: this would not appear to arise from any altera- tion, or difference, in the specific quality of the matter, but in the susceptibility of the parts that receive it. A chancre, in some people, will heal up immediately, while a gonorrhoea in the same person will produce the most violent symptoms. Irj some, a venereal ulcer will heal readily, while a slight wound from any trivial cause whatever, will torment both surgeon and patient. A case is related, by Mr. Hunter, of a gentleman, who, from running his spur into his leg, had a very troublesome ulcer, at the same time that chancres were healing with the greatest readiness : he was almost inclined, in this case, to apply venereal matter to the ulcer, for he could not help think- ing, that it would induce it to heal. Some diseases are capable of curing themselves: nature not being able, or'disposed, to continue the same action beyond a specified time ; if this was not the case, there would be no end to many complaints: this principle is common to many, hence the conquest in gonorrhoea; the power of continuing the action is here gradually diminished, and the cure effected by a natural decay. Thia cure in general takes place in a secreting part, for