LECTURE XXXI. 363 Stomach ; probably twice or three times will be often enough in the course of the day. If much mercury is given, it will have the effect of inducing a return of the irritable state of the local disease. The ulcer is sometimes apt to get into an in- dolent state, in which case the application of caustic will be found serviceable; if it still continues thus, give the bark, and use a wash composed of the argent, nitr. ^ss. aquae ^j. M. over which linen, moistened with the black wash, may be applied, or the ulcer may be touched with a probe, every day, dipped in the nitric acid. The most destructive cases are those in which sloushins of the glans or prepuce takes place. When the prepuce sloughs, a portion of the penis also mostly accompanies it; indeed cases have been seen where about ;in inch 6f the urethra has thus separated. In these cases, if mercury is used, it will induce the sloughing disposition to extend to the contiguous parts. The local applications are several; one of the best is the black wash, applied as hot as the patient can bear it. The nitric acid lotion may also be used gtts. ij. to aqua 3j. A poultice composed of carrots and linseed, one part of the former to three of the latter: it will have the effect of removing the slough, and at the same time correcting the disagreeable fgetor which is present. No application that can be inade use of is superior to yeast, Jss. to aqua ibss. or drop of beer, and made up into a poultice with linseed mea! or oatmeal. Turpentine appli- cations, made hot, are advisable. Another good remedy is R conserv. rosar. Sj. mel. rosae. tinct. opii. liquor, plumb, acet. aa 3ijM. Fomentations of cicuta and belladonna are service- able. A solution of opium will be productive of benefit, also the pulverized carbon, or a cataplasm made of it. The inter- nal medicines from which most advantage will be derived are ammonia from gr. v. to gr. x. mosch. gr. x. mucil. g. acaciLq. s. TTl. ft. bol. ter in die sumendus. Opium has been gene- rally recommended, and with great propriety; it is much better than bark, as the latter will often have the effect of disorder- ing the stomach and exciting febrile symptoms. Patients have generally a pulse from 120 to 130 in sloughy cases of this de- scription, but opium will very soon reduce this undue degree of