297 LECTURE XXVI* triceps and pcctineus muscles on the inner. On cutting open the sheath, the femoral artery, vein, and a branch of a nerve will be found; the sheath is continued down the thigh, and in the operation for aneurism, it must be carefully opened to detach the vein and nerve from the artery. The sheath conmiunicates with the abdomen, which may readily be ascertained by intro- ducing one linger. The sheath lies about half an inch behind the fascia lata, and is the prope]' covering of the sac; from a want of a knowledge of this circumstance, femoral hernia has been returned into the abdomen strangulated, the surgeon having supposed the stric- ture to be divided. The hernia first descends between the border of Gimbernat's ligament (which is nothing more than the lower edge of Pou- part's, and which turns from the pubis backwards), the femoral artery on the inner side, and the vein on the outer. It begins to elongate after it has got about half an inch from Poupart's ligament, and forms a kind of pouch. At the upper part of the sheath there are various openings for absorbent vessels, which renders it rather weaker there. As soon as the sac has passed through the opening in, or rather formed by the fascia lata, as previously described, it« becomes turned over it, the orifice of the sac being below, the body above; thus it turns upwards and backwards. After it has pushed forwards, and turned upwards upon the tendon of the oblique, it is covered by an aponeurosis as in inguinal hernia, which may be termed the superficial fascia. On cutting through the integuments this aponeurosis is exposed, which being next divided, the crural sheath comes into view; between this and the hernial sac is a quantity of fat, which, in several instances has been mistaken for omentum; divide the sheath, turn this fat aside, and the sac is brought into sight; on its division the contents come into view, and the orifice of the sac will be found embraced by the sheath. The seat of stric- ture is sometimes deeper, but less frequently tlian the former. Mr. Hey supposed from one quarter to half an inch below the falsiform process : there is an opening which is formed by the passage of the hernia in the crural sheath, and this is the seat of it, the division of which renders the prolapsed parts easiiy