198 LECTURE XVI. patient's temple. The patient's head is to be supported by a pillow. The assistant is to place himself behind the patient's chair, having a handkerchief to cover the sound eye in his hand, and with the other he is to press the eyelid against the orbit firmly, taking great care that the lid does not slip, which would totally prevent the operation, therefore his fingers should be very dry—so much for the situation. The necessary instru- ments are, a lancet-shaped knife, of a wedge form, gradually diminishing from the handle to the point; this is nearly in the shape of Wenzel's knife; the length is an inch and a half, and a quarter of an inch at its widest place, gradually tapering to a point. Mr. Ware's knife is less spear pointed, increasing in thickness from the point to the handle, and this former he maintains will prevent the discharge of the aqueous humour, before the puncture is completed, when there will be less danger of wounding the iris. A tenaculum will be required, to scratch the capsule of the lens; a silver scoop, to extract the solid parts, if any; a pair of delicate forceps, for taking away any part of the capsular membrane. A speculum was also formerly used to fix the eye, but its use has been long discontinued. Wenzel and Ware both coincide in this respect; the pressure occasioned by all these contrivances, for fixing the eye, is a serious objection, as it is very apt to cause a sud- den protrusion, and consequently loss of great part of the vitreous humour. It will be right to observe, in some children Mr. Ware has been obliged to use these mechanical instru- ments; what he used was merely an oval ring. The only method, and which was long kept a profound secret, of fixmg the eye, is with the fore finger placed in the inner canthus.— The operator is to take the knife in his right hand, if the left eye is to be operated on, and in the left hand, if the right eye, holding it like a pen in writing, his hand resting on the outer side of the eye, with the little finger on the edge of the orbit, separated from the others: the knife is to be passed into the eye, an hair's breadth anterior to the junction of the transparent cornea with the opaque, or, as Wenzel says, at the upper and outer part of the cornea, a quarter of a line distant from the sclerotica, in such a direction tliat it may pass obliquely from