80 LECTURE VI. common tiling for death to take place soon after such an acci- dent, when extensive in consequence of the system receiving such a violent and immediate shock ; in this case you will find the pulse quick and small, and the patient frequently chilly, perhaps every quarter of an hour: so that he ultimately falls a victim to the first impression. It is somewhat curious, and at the same time worthy of remark, that children sometimes die of injuries apparently of a trivial nature: an instance of this occurred some time ago, in the case of a child, who died from a trifling scald on the nates, the same evening of the day the accident happened. Burns produced by hydrogen gas differ in their nature from those arising from other causes, and require a different treatment: in the one case a stimulus is necessary, in the other not. This was ascertained some time ago, in one of the hospitals in this metropolis, from the following circum- stance :—A young gentleman, who came from the North of England, and had seen a variety of bums and scalds, in which the turpentine (at that time so much talked of) had been used indiscriminately, and which he averred with success; advised it for a patient in the hospital in which he was a dresser; but the fatal effects of it were very soon obvious; besides this, it is necessary to observe, that should the patient survive the acci- dent, still it is likely that death will take place, from secondary irritation. The practice usually followed is to administer opium and wine, and to apply lime water and milk, for the purpose of lessening the degree of irritability present, and also preventing the increased dischiirge, which would subsequently take place from the use of the stimulants. The old applica- tion, the aq. calcis, with oil, is still often seen used. Where granulations have arisen, as they will, extensively, in a few days, the following lotion is to be applied :—R. Zinci sulp. gr. vj. aq. fontanae |iv. M. ft. lotio.; this will, in a short time, pro- duce a new cuticle, even over an extensive surface. With respect to the third state, though there is no immediate danger, yet there is a remote one, for the skin being destroyed, separates and forms an eschar, which must naturally debilitate the living powers, by calling on them beyond their natural capacity. It is in this state that we find so much benefit de-