LECTURE Mil. 102 but Mr. Keate had a case in which he successfully put a liga- ture upou this vessel, under this bone, but it would be much better to make the incision above it, on account of the artery being more superficial in this situation; below, a great deal of care is requisite to avoid the subclavian vein and cephalic vein, and the thickness of the pectoral muscle will add to the diffi- culty of applying the ligature. The axillary artery has been successfully tied by Mr. Hall, of Cheshire, wounded with a scythe. Mr. White, of Man- chester, details an unsuccessful instance, but on dissection, three of the nerves were found included in the ligature. It is very seldom necessary to secure this vessel from a wound in it, as it is seldom seen injured; in cases of amputation, at the shoulder-joint, it has been repeatedly operated on ; it is rather a difficult thing to do this, from its being surrounded by the axillary plexus of nerves, from which it must be very carefully separated. The brachial artery is closely accompanied by the median nerve"; this artery has been frequently injured in bleeding from the arm. When this is the case two ligatures will be required, otherwise haemorrhage will occur, in consequence of the blood being returned into the lower part of the wounded artery, through the medium of anastamosing vessels. JSfote.—The operations for each of these arteries will be found detailed under the article Aneurism. The ulnar artery must be distinguished from the cubital nerve accompanying it; the vessels must be taken up with a tena- culum ; the situation may be readily found by bending the arm . and hand, when the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris will come into view ; the artery may be found on the inner side of it; the nerve, however, is between it and the tendon: two ligatures are required on this vessel, one above, and the other below the wound. The radial artery is more frequently wounded than any otLer artery in the body, on account of its superficial situation, and h may be found on the outer side of the flexor carpi radialis; if two ligatures are not applied, it is liable to form a tumour «f an aneurismal kind, from its anastamosing with the rann