LECTURE XXXIII. 412 similar effect to the liniment; the occasional use of it will effect permanent service. In addition to either of these plans, purgatives administered once a week, or every ten days, or as often as tliey are found necessary, will be found beneficial, as the pulv, scaramon. et hydrarg. submur. If there exists a great degree of constitutional irritation, saline medicines, with opium, must be given ; but, if this should not be the case, the tinct. cinchon. cum hydrarg. muriat; vel acid, muriat. or natron united with the cinchona will be found most serviceable. These are to be used in incipient states of the disease, often with the greatest advantage. If the parts are considerably thickened, the latter medicines will be found peculiarly of use. Great benefit is frequently derived from giving the mistur. myrrh, cum fej-ri, and this is more particularly advantageous in those females who are attacked with the disease about puberty. If there is a fresh accession of infiammation threatening suppu- ration, the applicati(m of ieeches must be had recourse to ; more active purgatives admiui.^tered, and more frequently; iouienta- tions, or the hoi-bath, made use of every night, of the heat of 95 or 100; blisters applied and kept open by the ung. sabina; to effect this latter purpose it is necessary to peel off the cuticle^ otherwise this effect will not be produced. As blisters are generally very inconvenient to the patient, and as they likewise produce very considerable consiilutional irritation, issues may be substituted, but these should not be placed very near the joint, on account of inflammation, consequent upon the inser- tion of them, often extending to the synovial membrane, and thus being the cause of fresh distress instead of relief, so as to retard the cure. Many practitioners apply caustic, so as to cause afterwards a permanent discharge. But, supposing ul- ceration has taken place, and the matter has been discharged, the treatment required is still to excite external inflammation, though in a less degree : to effect this purpose, blisters placed on the opposite side of the joint to that where the ulcerative opening exists. Issues may be made use of with a similar in- tention, and if the joint is not very much inflamed, the injection of some fluid into it, will be found of great service; for this purpose a solution of nitrous acid gtt. vj. to 3iv, of aqua, will