15^ LECTURE XIV. the cyst; in this case the trocar should be passed rather on the outer side of it. The nature of the fluid varies a good deal, and it is no uncommon thing to find it bloody : if this is found the case, after the operation has been performed, the injection made use of should be much weaker than usual, by about one- third ; the reason is, the result of an inflammatory process, and ?f a strong injection was made use of, it would run the risk of exciting too great action and irritation in the parts, which would most probably terminate in suppuration. Instances have been ,seen, but they are very rare, of a purulent fluid in the vaginal tunic, of a yellowish colour, resembling pus, sometimes so viscid as to be ropy. Cartilaginous substances are also occa- sionally found loose within this tunic. There are several diseases with which an hydrocele may be confounded:—in the first place, with hernia. A careful in- quiry should be made into the history of the case, and take, particular care to be informed of its origin, 8cc,, whether the tumour began from below, and extended upwards, or vice versa. Again, direct the patient to cough, if it be hydrocele, there will be no dilatation, but if hernia there will; however, there are some exceptions to this as a general rule, which I shall here- after notice. Another test of hydrocele, I may observe, is the distinctness with which the spermatic chord may be felt, which is not the case with inguinal hernia. The exceptions that I alluded to, with respect to the dilatation of hydrocele, by coughing, are these : first, when a hydrocele is so extensive as. to pass between the abdominal rings, this will dilate by cough- ing : also when the fluid, which is rarely the case, passes from • the vaginal tunic into the abdomen :—but those just mentioned, if properly attended to, will not deceive, as they are perfectly transparent, and may be instanced as exceptions. It is proper to be thoroughly acquainted with the disease before operating, as otherwise fatal eftects may ensue from wounding the testis. An hydrocele may be distinguished from an inflamed testicle, by the scrotum in the latter being red, and having a general blush on the surface; the vessels also of the testis are much more enlarged and numerous, besides, in squeezing the testicle gentlv with the hand, it will excite a considerable degree of