SO9 LECTURE XXVII. the opposite shoulder; then bending the elbow, put another towel round the arm, and let two persons extend this, while two others are to hold the other towel firmly. Now while the head of the bone is pulled out of the axilla by the towel roun4 the arm, the ptlier acts as a lever in replacing the bone. I have seen this dislocation accompHshed over the edge of a door or settle, placing a pad underneath in the axilla, to pre- vent injury : I have myself reduced it, assisted by Mr. Bird, with my heel in the axilla, in the case of Mr. John Lewis, ai^ ironmonger. I have also effected this singly ; but in the servant of Mr. John Prosser, miller, I was obliged to use the pullies (having in vain attempted other methods) with success. Some- times after reducing a dislocation of this kind, the head of the bone will again fall into the ajjilla; from the relaxation of the parts, in such cases a pad in the axilla will be useful, and^up^ port the shoulder by placing the arm in a sling. The easiest mode of reduction is with the heel or knee in the axilla, and extending the arm at the same time ; the knee is beat in women. The principal intention is to fix the sca- pula before extension is iised. The direction the arm is to be drawn, is in a right angle from the body, apd a little downwards. The longest time the bone in thi§ accident has been out an4 afterwards reduced, is nine weeks and six days. Second,, dislocation is forwards : here the head of the bone lies on the second rib under the pectoral muscle, and under the clavicle about its middle : to ascertain it, lay your hand on the (clavicle, rotate the arm, and you feel the head of the bone: the signs are, loss of the elevation of the shoulder, the hand cannot be put to the head, and the elbow is with difficulty brought near the side : but still there is more motion than in the former case; but the difficulty in reduction, is greater con- siderably. The pectoral muscle is here relaxed: the head of the bone can be distinctly felt under the clavicle; nei- ther the heel or knee are useful here. The accident being ascertained, proceed to the reduction, by providing your-: ?elf with a kind pf girth, with a slit in the middle, through which you are to put the arm of the patient; then buckling and fastening it to a point behind, you thus confine the ^c^- y2 ' \'