34 LECTUKE 11. Inflammation has four results or terminations : 1st, Adhesion, from coagulable lymph being thrown out ia the cells, and the parts become glued together, or incasing the extraneous substance, which was the original source of mis- chief, and all the symptoms existing gradually disappear. This process, or stage, by some is termed adhesive inflammation, by others, resolution, and is the most favourable of each. 2dly, Suppuration, or a secretion of matter in the centre: from the continuance of the inflammation, the action of the blood vessels become changed, and pus is formed. 3dly, Ulceration, which eventually by continued pressure, excites absorption of the surrounding parts, thereby allow- ing of the escape of the extraneous body ; this is termed ulcera- tive or absorbent inflammation. And, 4thly, Mortification or gangrene; in which process tfie parts losing their vitality become dead, and separate from the living, by the suppurative process taking place for their removal. Inflammation produces different effects in different parts of the body. In the skin it generally extends a considerable way ; besides the cuticle is raised, as in blisters, containing under- neath serum, and very seldom producing pus; this is called the Erysipelatous Inflammation. In this affection there is generally constitutional irritation, subsequent to its origin, accompanied by shivering, the pulse accelerated, depression of spirits, prostration of strength, &c. &c. According to Mr. Hunter, this is a cutaneous inflammation, which now and then spreads over a considerable extent of surface very rapidly, without extending generally to the cellular membrane under- neath. It differs from local or common inflammation, which is of a deep red, by being of a scarlet colour, tinged with yellow, being also more diffused, and not so elevated or circumscribed, dis- appearing in one situation and attacking another, the colou rof the cuticle having a glossy smooth appearance; it is accom- panied with a burning itching pain in the part; it most fre- quently ends in resolution, seldom the suppurative process occurs. 4