143 LECTURE XII. insinuated itself; and as it would appear, from all the cases on record that absorption is slow, and the constitution does not become immediately affected, but rather remotely, we may hope for success from its adoption, more particularly if done soon after the injury has been received. The lunar caustic may be also applied, and I have the authority of Mr. Cline for asserting, that in several cases which came under his care, it was amply sufficient: it must be used liberally. Many prefer extirpating the bitten part completely, and I see not the least objection to its adoption ; and probably it would be preferable, less tedious, not so painful, and sooner healed ; and I must confess, was a case to come under my own care^ I should have no hesitation in removing the wounded part, even if situated among struc- tures that would suffer by the necessary incision. ' A young nobleman fell a victim to hydrophobia when caustic had been applied, but I attribute it principally to its not being effectually used, that is, so liberally as to cause a sloughing of the whole extent of the wound. With respect to medicine, all the celebrated specifics of different writers deserve only contempt; and it is only in those cases where probably hydro- phobia would not, and where it did not make its appearance, that they have been so greatly extolled as preventatives. Sea- bathing is of little service; though conformable to the opinions that are prevalent of its efficacy by the generality of mankind, it may be given a trial. On vegetable Poisons.—All of these produce nearly the same effect: viz. giddiness, confusion of sight, wildness of the eyes, palpitations, stupor, vomitings, convulsions, &c. I have never known a person destroy himself with acuta, though from its resemblance to the leaf of carrots, parsley, and other plants, it has frequently accidentally produced very distressing symptoms, and in some cases, I believe, a fatal termination. When it occasions deleterious effects, it causes pain in the head, giddiness, loss of sight, convulsions, stupor, death. On dissection the stomach does not appear inflamed or altered, so that it can only be detected by its presence or smell. If in- gected into the arteries, it puts a stop to all motion of the body: applied to a lisnb, it destroys its sensibility. It has been much