LECTURE YI. 79 off the distention of the skin, would be improper. When an opening is made, which ought to be done early, squeeze as much of the contents out as you possibly can, without occa- sioning too considerable pain; the constitutional treatment will consist of bark, aromatic confection, opium, 8cc. as recom- mended for mortification; a generous and nourishing diet. Porter, wine, &c. ON BURNS AND SCALDS. Few cases have occurred, about which there has been, so much diversity of opinion with respect to treatment as these: and the fault, in my humble opinion, seems to lie in the sur- geons not making a. proper discrimination between the diffe- rent states that a patient is subject to, from such accidents, according to the extent of the injury done, and the unfavour- able or contrary disposition of the constitution towards the reparation of such injury. Burns may be divided into three states or conditions :—The 1st. consists in a simple vesication, in which the cuticle remains unbroken. The 2d. where the cuticle is extensively separated from the surface of the skin, so that the papillae of the extremities of nerves are exposed, which is most frequently the case, from the application of fire. The 3d, in which the life of the cutis vera is gone, and where the process of suppuration is absolutely necessary. The danger of the first state is but little, provided the vesi- cations are not disturbed, however extensive they may be, although on this subject there has been a severe controversy: in this state, the Liquor, plumb, acet. dil. et spirit, vin. should be frequently applied cold ; the chief object is to keep the blis- ter from breaking, as a considerable discharge would come on : otherwise no great irritation, and consequently no attendant danger arises. The spirit, vin. and vinegar, also a camphorat- ed lotion, liq. plumb, acet. 5ss. spirit, camphorse |ss. aq. distill. Ifess. ft. lotio, may be applied with the same view. The danger attending on the second, or that state in which the cutis is bare and exposed, is greater than in the preceding, owing to the increased sensibility of the parts, and it is no un-