rECTUBE XXX. 345 soda carbon, taken several times daily; and the following mix- ture, at intervals betWeen each powder, R tinct. benzoes comp. 3 ij; vital, ovi. q. s. decoct, hordei lb. ss. ft. mistura. The bladder sometimes ulcerates anteriorl?/, in consequence of stricture. The plan of treatment to be pursued will be to destroy the stricture, and when it is accomplished, introduce a hollow bougie into the bladder, so as to allow the urine to drain off continually. The edges of the wound are then to be touch- ed occasionally with caustic, in order to induce union. There is a paralytic affection, which sometimes, though rarely, supervenes gonorrhoea, and affects the bladder alone. This disease generally attacks old people. It may be known by two circumstances; when the bladder is completely dis- tended with urine, there is not any pain or fever present, and when a catheter is passed into the bladder in this state, not a drop will pass off if the patient is in a recumbent posture, but immediately on his elevating himself, the urine will flow off in- a full stream, owing to the pressure of the abdominal muscles and viscera, which force the urine downwards. A blister some- times will have a good effect in these cases. Turpentine glys- tets, tonic medicines, and cold bathing, will contribute to resto- ration. ' Diseases of the kidneys, which go on to ulceration, generally end in the death of the patient. Bleedings from the urethra, during the acute stage of gonor- rhcea, is mostly an alarming circumstance to the patient, though ultimately it has a very beneficial effect. In order to check haemorrhage, pressure made upon various parts of the canal, for the space of five or ten minutes, will generally be sufficient. Sometimes it will require that the whole of the penis should be pressed with a roller, or a T bandage, secured on the perineum. The mtroduction of bougies, under these circumstances, into the urethra, is the very worst thhig that can be done, as they open the mouths of the bleeding vessels. It will be right to give purgatives, such as the magnes. sulph. in the infus. rosar. Chordee.—This is a very troublesome symptom, though not ;»n alarming one. Tiie cause of it is an effusion of coagulable