LECTURE XVII. 211 states of cancer, two of which may be fairly classed among other affections, brought to assume the appearance of this dis- ease by improper applications. Fungus hamatodes begins with the appearance of mucus at the bottom of the eye, presenting a bluish purple aspect from the reflection of the rays of light through it; that which was before of a light colour is now mixed with bloody spots, the eye soon becomes swollen, and the tunica conjunctiva appears tinged with blood of a purple venous colour: at length the tumour protrudes through the opaque cornea, and when much enlarged, a good deal of it commonly sloughs, and the ulti- mate consequences are, that a luxuriant fungus arises; this extends through the foramina, resting on the brain. The pa- tient immediately becomes blind, and is seized with a consider- able degree of coma, and the scene is soon closed with all the symptoms of compressed brain. A woman labouring under this fatal disease, was lately seen. The origin of the affection is evidently in the tendinous structure, seldom affecting the glands. Mr. Wardrop, who has written on this subject, says, that it originates in the nervous structure ; but I ^fiSrm, that the disease first makes its appearance in the sclerotic coat, and that the retina, as well as the optic nerve and choroid coat, are only subsequently affected by the communication from the sclerotica, or tendinous coat of the eye. It is observed, that this disease is very frequent in the tendinous expansion of the fore arm, an example of which, I have within the last day or two seen, and also in the fascia lata, of the thigh, and that the disease is communicated from thence to other parts. If the eye is to be removed at all, it should be done in the earliest stages of the disease, and I am sorry to state, that the opera- tion for it, is one of the most unsuccessful in surgery. Operation. Push a curved needle through the eye for the purpose of fixing it, then with a double edged knife divide the inner can- thus, and pass it down around the eye till it is separated from the orbit: having proceeded as far as the optic nerve, divide it with a small straight knife, and also those muscles that may e