liECTURE XXXIll. 407 The treatment must be similar to that of inflammation arising from any adventitious cause. A purgative of scam- mony, rhubarb and calomel must be given, and this must be repeated every fourth or sixth day, but not oftener. Mercury should nevtr be given in scrophulous affections with the inten- tion of inducing a mercurial effect. Evaporating lotions should be applied to the enlarged glands, composed of liquor, acet. plumb, dil. et spir. vin. If the inflammation, under this plan of treatment, does not abate, a leech or two had better be applied. If suppuration, notwithstanding, should ensue, as soon as a fluctuation is evident, the abscess must be opened by a small incision made into the most prominent part of the tumour. If the abscess is large, probably it would be of more advantage to use a needle and thread as a seton to evacuate its contents. If the skin is of a purple colour, and a considerable extent of it is thin and diseased, it had much better be allowed to break with- out opening, as in this case it never heals kindly, and the sur- geon may get into discredit for having meddled with it. A common poultice may be applied to the part after the swelling has been opened, and afterwards a lotion of sulphuric acid - upon linen When the ulcerative' process has commenced, and the ulcer has degenerated, (as most scrophulous sores do) into an indolent one, the ung. hydrarg. nitr. will be found advan- tageous, as it will cause healthy, florid granulations to shoot out. The argent, nitr. ,n solution, 5 j. to an ^j. may be applied once a day. The black wash covered with oil. silk will be useful. Bathing in tepid salt water, made in the proportion of an ounce of bay salt to Ibj. of water, may be had recourse to, the heat about 94 degrees. The patient should remain in the bath about ten minutes, and must not go to bed immediately after usmg the bath, as perspiration is apt to weaken him ex- ceedingly If he does. The bath may be used three limes a week.