LECTURE XXIII. 267 the course of the spermatic chord. The second, by no means unfrequent, though less so than the oblique, is that which passes directly through the abdominal ring,'and hence called the direct hernia. The third is the hernia congenita, where the intestine, or omentum, is in contact with the testes within the tunica vagi- nalis. The fourth and last, is that in which a cit/st is formed within the tunic itself, when the contents are either intestine or omentum. By considering each, individually, more correct ideas will be entertained on this subject; and it is of importance to the stu- dent to preface it with an anatomical description of the struc- ture of these parts, without which it is impossible to understand the ensuing details, and I may observe, it is to Mr. Astley Cooper the profession at large is indebted for the very able and accurate exposition of the anatomy of hernia; I lament only one circumstance — it is the expensive style of his publication. This, however, is less to be regretted, since Mr. Lawrence has favoured the world with a treatise on this disease, and probably it will supersede the necessity of republishing Mr. Cooper's work, which has been some time out of print, and scarce. Anatomical structure.—I have dissected carefully the parts concerned in hernia repeatedly, and I shall here detail, from memory, the anatomy as concisely as possible without reference to any work whatever. When the integuments are removed, the lower part of the abdomen is covered on the fore part by a tendinous expansion, and on the side by muscular fibres, which are derived from five pair of muscles: as this expansion ascends' it becomes nar- rower : in it, at the lower part, are two holes, or openings, called the abdominal rings, formed in the male for the trans- mission of the spermatic chords, and the round ligaments in the female. These rings, or openings, are made up of two columns of tendon, the upper column passing into the symphisis — the lower, into the tuberosity of the pubis; and these columns are joined by transverse fibres, and are of an elliptical, or, as some think, triangular shape. These I shall call the external abdo- minal rings.