LKCTUKE IV. 51 adilucetJ, namely, in the improved method for the radical cure of hydrocele, for which we are indebted to Sir James Earle; by the effect of an injection, inflammation is produced, and the sides of the vaginal tunic are glued together, so ihat the whole cavity or bag previously existing, becomes obliterated; we here see that even disease can be cured by this beautiful and admira- ble process of nature, in itself very simple, which shews the wisdom of our great Creator in a striking degree. ON SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. When inflammation passes the limits of adhesion, pus is formed, the symptoms are, the parts alFected becoming more prominent, the tumour harder on its sides than in its centre, a throbbing pain, a suifused redness over its surface ; this red- ness generally denotes inflammation in the cellular membrane beneath, a fluctuation is commonly perceptible in its centre, which becomes the most elevated part, and appears whitish and. soft to the feel. The constitution now, in its turn, is affected, the patient is seized with shiverings, which are more or less violent, according to a combination of circumstances, lie paii-^ before acute becomes of a dull kind. These are the eeneral symptoms, but there will be always some little variety, accords ing to the depth it is lodged. Although Hunter remarks n(? suppuration eveu takes place without being preceded by inflammation, and no pus is ever formed but in consequence of it, yet there are some particular structures which arrive to the formation of pus, without pre-, vious adhesive inflaramaticfn; in mucous membranes, for ex- ample, where, on any stimulus being applied, immediately pus' begins to form. We may observe this in the urethra, when, if a bougie is introduced, in an irritable habit of body, it will occur. Also in the trachea and in the lacrymal duct; and this is a very wise provision of nature, for if those parts took on adhe- sive inflammation, instead of the suppurative process, what would be the consequence ? why, generally speaking, it would prove fatal, as the constitution would be so much affected in consequence of such irritation, in parts go sensible. Retention V