234 LECTUnE XIX. Having perfectly satisfied yourself with regard to a stone being present, and there are no objections with respect to the health of the patient, so as to militate against the performance of the operation for its removal, a few preparatory steps are required; and if the patient is of a full plethoric habit, bleeding the day previous to that fixed on for operating, will be right, to a mo- derate extent, and also the administration of purgative medi- cines. This mode of preparation is particularly necessary about the middle period of life, and it is owing principally to its adoption that the operation succeeds in the hospitals. But the best step of the kind which may be had recourse to, is that of sounding the patient very often, even every other day for sometime: this frequent irritation accustoms the patient to a considerable stimulant, and he will bear the operation with less uneasiness and pain than would otherwise happen; and also by this means the surgeon gets more complete depth in the cut by passing the sound. The morning it is to be performed, it will be right previously to evacuate the rectum by means of a glyster, as it might otherwise be so distended as to be cut with a knife, and the patient should be directed to retain his urine for some hours. The old Operation. It is set down by surgeons, as an invariable rule, never to operate for lithotomy unless the stone "can plainly be felt, and struck against immediately previous to its performance. The vibrating sensatio.n of the sound against the stone, may be dis- tinguishable by the ear as well as by the feel. I have seen it postponed by Mr. Henry Clme, and others, on this account: although the calculus could be readily felt a short time before, yet on introducing the staff on the morning the operation was contemplated, it could not be detected. Sometimes the stone is protruded through the fasciculi of the muscular fibres, form- ing a kind of bag by the lining of the bladder, and hence the reason it cannot be felt. If the subject is an adult, he is to be laid on a table about three feet high ; there are three band- ages required, one on both sides for tying the ancles and wnsts of each side firmly together, by means of a noose formed m a