LECTURE VIII. 93 being inoculated under the skin by the instruments used; but in this case the body was quite fresh, and had been dead but a short time. From this case, and many others which have occurred, and which are seen every season, where no matter of the above kind could possibly have been introduced, it is evident that the severity of the symptoms depends upon the constitution of the patient, for these appearances will arise from pricking the finger or hand with scissars or needles, which could not have putrid matter upon them when entering the skin. Treatment.—Cut a piece of lunar caustic into a pointed shape like a point of a black lead pencil, and introduce this into the wound, and cauterize the whole internal surface of it. When this is done, very severe symptoms are prevented from coming on. If this should not have been done in the first instance, from fear of occasioning unnecessary pain, or too great confidence in yourselves to be materially alarmed about such an injury, at least dilate the wound; should inflammation and pain have arisen, leeches and fomentations must be applied. The antiphlogistic regimen adopted to its full extent; * calomel accompanied or succeeded by saline medicines ; opium and antimony must be given at the discretion of the surgeon. From imagining that a putrid diathesis existed, many surgeons were in the habit formerly of giving wine, bark, &c. to correct it, and never allowed the symptoms resulted from inflammation ; the consequence of this was, that many died under this plan of treatment. Mr. Astley Cooper, the able Lecturer on Surgery, at St. Thomas's Hospital, and author of a valuable work on Hernia; in dissecting, some years ago, punctured his finger, he had very severe symptoms resulting from it: he did not confide in his own knowledge, fearful he might not be so able to judge of the treatment necessary for himself, so satisfactory; as if well, and prescribing for another; a medical practitioner was sent for, who recommended wine, &c. and Mr. Cooper had the re- solution to submit to it for a very short time, but sufficiently long to find it only exasperated the disease: on adopting the antiphlogistic regimen, he got better, though it was a long