LECTURE V. 71 of pain. Sores of this description, although apparently so trifling, have been seen to produce such a disordered state of the parts, as to cause the necessity of dissecting into the skin,' and also the gland which secretes the nail; but previous to this it will be better to try aq. calcis, or ungm, hydrarg. nitr. 10th. Sores often occur in the lower extremities from dis- eased viscera, and are generally accompanied with anasarca;— here it is proper to attend to the state of the viscera, as no cure will take place before they are restored to their proper func- tions. When attended with anasarca, calomel united with squills, and about half a grain of gamboge, will be found very efficacious; also the cathartic extract; at the same time giving digitalis with the bark, twice a day, as tonics are highly proper at the time evacuants are employed. Bandages, or a roller, are here to be applied. lllh. Sores are also found in the lower extremities, with dls- quaraation of the cuticle, and skin abraded : under the cuticle is found a small quantity of serum, owing to a lax circulation of the parts. There are two remedies proper for this disease: the aq. calcis, with hydr. muriat, in the proportion of one grain of the latter to an ounce of the former ; dip linen in this wash and lay it over the sore, over which apply a piece of oil silk, which prevents the linen from being too suddenly dried; upon the oil silk apply a roller, which should extend over all the limb. If the parts are irritated with the above wash, apply the nitrate of mercury united with lard. 12th. There are other impediments to healing, such as a white and callous state of the edges of the sores ; in this case apply the ungm. hydrarg. and if this should not succeed, it will then be useful to scarify the edges with a lancet. Blistering ointments have also their uses as stimulants. When the edges turn inwards, it has been observed that this state is a general attendant on scrophulous sores; apply this wash to the ulcers twice a day—argent, nitrat. 3ss. aquae calcis |j. M. and after- wards the aqua calcis alone, as a constant lotion, at the same time strengthen the habit with tonics. It is generally the mark of cancerous sores Svhen the edges turn outwards. Sometimes we observe a species of sores not very common, which are