281 LECTURI5> XXIV. they have been surprised at its having gone up without the least difficulty. It is to the temporary weakness and syncope^ \vhich the sudden loss of blood induces, that may be attributed the peculiarly favourable facility of reduction ; but on the sub- ject of bleeding, there are many of our best writers advocates Tor and against its adoption. In old people the taxis can be used, and continued with more freedom. In case manual elForts are not attended with the desired success, take away froni twenty to twenty-two ounces of blood; this evacuation not only facilitates reduction, but lessens subsequent irritation, if the operation is required. If these means should be unsuc- cessful, make an infusion of tobacco, Ij. to a ftj. of water, throw up one half, and increase this, if found insufficient, by using the remainder : it is attended with great risk to throw up the whole at once, as will be illustrated by the following case. A young girl, some years ago, was admitted into Guy's Hospital, and had the whole, quantity thrown up at once; alarming symptoms came on, and Mr. Astley Cooper was sent for; but when he came, she had vomited a great deal, and the hernia was returned, but such excessive fainting followed, as to occasion a speedy dissolution. Less quantities have been 4nown to produce this lamentable effect. What I allude to, •is a decoction or infusion for about ten minutes; others eni- ploy the smoke, and very ingenious apparatus' have been in- Vented for this purpose: I think the first is by far preferable. Tobacco has a relaxing and depressing influence on the body ^universally, lowering the pulse, inducing nausea, sickness, cold -sweats and syncope, and under slight pressure the hernia be- *comes reduced. I have heard Mr. Cooper say, it was a most unpardonable neglect in the practitioner, not to use tobacco in strangulated hernia, and which ought to be impressed on the mind of every surgeon. Powdered ice, in a bladder, must be applied to the tumour; if this cannot be procured, the powdered muriate of ammonize and nitre,to Ibss. of water; this will produce a degree of cold equal to 20°: it must be frequently changed, as it soop ■acquires the temperature of the body by the abstraction of its heat: even rags, dipped in spirit and water, will suffice occa-