188 LtCTtRB XV. of the psoas muscle, so as to touch the artery about two inches above Poupart's ligament; the pulsations of the artery make it easily distinguishable: a slight incision is obliged to be made on each side, to detach it from its fascia, so as to allow one finger to be inserted under it: with an eyed probe two ligatures were conveyed under it, one was secured upwards, as high as the artery was detached, the olher some distance lower down, and the vessel divided midway between each:—the wound to be attempted to be united by adhesion. Mr. Astley Cooper operates somewhat different: he recom- mends the incision to be made above the abdominal ring, in a similunar form (thus deviating from the custom of making it parallel with the direction of the artery), carrying it in the direction of Poupart's ligament, which will serve as a guide, within an inch and a half of the spine of the ilium; this will expose the tendon of the obliquus externus: then carry the knife above the ligament, so as to expose the obliquus internus; laying aside the knife for the present, the fingers are to be passed beneath the spermatic chord, and under it is the situa- tion of the artery: it is very necessary to separate distinctly the artery from the surrounding substance, which runs on the inner side of the former: the best method is by means of a director, which by moving it a little from side to side may easily be insinuated under the artery, which is then to be secured in the same manner as described in the operation for popliteal aneurism. Case.—A robust Swede, thirty-five years of age, was ad- mitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in February, 1809, with an aneurism of the femoral artery, immediately below Poupart's ligam^fit. The external iliac artery was tied by Mr. Abernethy; two hroad ligatures were applied very tightly to the vessel, but it was not divided; both came away on the tenth day, and the wound healed soon afterwards. The tumour, which at the time of the operation was as large as a lemon, became absorbed. Case.—The subject of an aneurism, operated on in June, 1808, by securing the external iliac artery, by Mr. Astley Cooper, has been perfectly successful j he walked with coa-