221 LECTURE XVIII. The second objection is conceived to be fallacious, and I have heard a medical gentleman of some celebrity relate three cases where no extravasation happened. The elastic gum catheter may he Avorn for some time without causing any ill effects. Mr. Sharp, Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Astley Cooper are fa- vourable to this operation: Sir Everard Home and Mr. Hey of Leeds, as well as others, think the operation per rectum preferable. I should be disposed, in case of diseased prostate, where the catheter could not be passed, though such instances are very rare, as in the practice of one of our most popular surgeons, a case never occurred of a disease of that gland where it could not be introduced, to tap above the pubis. In cases of diseased prostate, the operation per perineum would be highly dangerous: it is similar in many respects to that of lithotomy. The patient is to be bound in the same manner, an incision an inch and an half in length is to be made in perineo, so as to lay bare the bulb of the penis; having done this, introduce one finger, and it will be found resting on the prostate gland, which is to be pushed a little to the right side of the patient, and the trocar is to be carried by it in a direct line backwards into the side of the bladder nearly at the base of the prostate. This operation will be much facilitated by in- troducing at the lime one finger into the rectum. It requires a perfect anatomical knowledge for the proper execution of it. The trocar and canula must be of a convenient length. Having now stated the usual methods practised in puncturing the bladder, I shall briefly enumerate the causes that would dictate the necessity of either operation. ON ISCHURIA, OR RETENTION OF URINE. The distinction between suppression and retention of urine is this; the former means a defect in the secretion of the kid- neys ; the latter, when secreted, an inability of expelling it. Those advanced in life are most frequently the subjects of this affection. The bladder holds somewhere about one pint and a half of urine, without inconvenience; but when that quantity becomes considerably augmented, an urgent desire is felt of evacuating it; and if this cannot be attained the bladder