LECTURE II. 33 iion produces a slight adhesive inflammation ; but if it was pre- viouslv inflamed, the case vv'ould be altered; and if precisely the same injection was made use of, the inflammation will extend to the suppurative process. The heat of inflamed parts has .rbeen and is a matter of dis- pute and controversy. Hunter denied the existence of it, and made several ingenious experiments to support his arguments. He introduced a thermometer into the rectum of a dog, and found it stood at 101; he then injected a solution of corrosive sublimate (muriate of mercury) by which a violent inflammation was produced ; on applying the thermometer, there was no in- crease of heat, it still remained at 101. He likewise introduced it into the vagina of an ass: it was then 100; on producing inflammation, it fell to 99; after a short time it rose again to 100, but there was not any further increase. These experiments, however ingenious they may be thought, yet are by no means satisfactory at this present moment. On the surface of the body increased heat is found to arise from in- flammation : a blister rises the thermometer to 94, while the parts around are only 90. That increased heat really exists is now universally admitted externally, and as simple an explanation as any which the author offers, would be this : Hunter has allowed that the temporary enlargement of the diameters of vessels always happen, when- ever there is any process going on requiring an extraordinary supply of blood. He also states that the colouring matter of the blood, the red particles, is its heaviest part, and does even acquire an increase in bulk in inflammation. Now in inflam- mation, the vessels of the part are certainly enlarged, they allow the red particles to circulate through them, which before in a natural and healthy state, contained only the transparent; this combined with the increased velocity of the circulation, will be sufficient to account reasonably for the excess of animal heat above the natural standard, by the greater portion of caloric which is given off, causing the variation in the temperature, and hence it approximates nearer to the heat of the blood, accord- ing to the extent and violence of the inflammation. 3