200 LECTURE XVT. the knife in the cornea, passing a scoop under it, will succeed in getting it into its place: if there are any solid portions of the lens remaining, they are to be removed with a scoop. The eyelids are to be closed immediately, by which the edges of the flap are brought into contact, then apply apiece of lint, dipped in the liq. acet. plumb, dil., or weak brandy and water, and, according to Mr. Ware, a pledget of spermaceti ointment over it, and over this a roller, which should, in the first instance, be applied rather loosely: the patient is to be put to bed with his head somewhat elevated, and he is to be particularly cautioned against opening his eyelids. All kinds of stimuli are to be avoided, therefore the room should be darkened, and light en- tirely excluded, and the less conversation the better; and he should, if possible, avoid going for some time to stool, hencp the necessity of opening the bowels previously. His diet is to be of a light nature, and in fact the antiphlogistic plan strictly adhered to. If inflammation is at first violent, it will be right to apply leeches, and if it should not abate soon, it will then be proper to bleed freely from the arm, or, what is still better, to open the jugular vein or temporal artery. The patient should lie continually on his back, after the operation has been performed, as in this position the humours are not so liable to escape. The eye is often opaque afterwards, from the great inflammation which ensues; hence when this exists recourse must be had to vene-sectio, to moderate its violence. Pus likewise occasionally forms. The operation has sometimes failed, from want of due attention, in the first instance, to the state of the optic nerve; should it be diseased, the operation will be utterly useless and absurd. Difficulties to be encountered.—When the iris is convex, considerable danger is run in completing the section of the cornea, of entangling and wounding it with the edge of the knife; and Mr. Ware considered Wenzel made a very im- portant practical remark to avoid this diflSculty, which was m rubbing the cornea gently downwards with the finger. The incision for cataract should not be too small, not terminate opposite the pupil, otherwise a cicatrix would form here, which would obstruct the sight afterwards. Care should be