LECTURE XVI. 199 above downwards, parallel to the plane of the iris. Wenzel does not commence till the eye is perfectly quiet, and turned towards the outer angle, but avoids all pressure on the eye-ball. To this Mr. Ware very justly, in my opinion, dissents; he re- commends the operator to fix the eye with the fore and middle finger of the left hand, placed upon the tunica conjunctiva, just below, on the inside of the cornea, while an assistant places his finger in apposition, on the inside and above the cornea. Mr. Ware advises the knife to enter the outside of the cornea, a little above its transverse diameter, and at the same distance., from its connexion with the sclerotica, as Wenzel and others approve of; the knife is to be pushed on slowly and steadily, in a straight direction, with its blade parallel to the iris, till it pierces the cornea at the inner angle of the eye, opposite to that zohich it Jirst entered.; all pressure is to be removed; the a(]ueous humour will now be evacuated, and the eye becomes placid, and the knife is to cut its way out by pressing it down- wards, making a semicircular divison of the cornea at the lower part of the eye. In Wenzel's mode of operating, to shew his dexterity, rather than with any other motive, when the knife got opposite to the pupil, he inclined it backwards, and thus punctured the lens ; but Mr. Ware very properly objects to this, for the danger of wounding the iris is very great. The obliquity of the incision countenanced by Wenzel, who was an extremely expert oculist, is not followed by any of our best English operators; they think the advantages which he states are not of that import- ance as to warrant imitating it:—neither is it prudent to at- tempt the wounding of the capsule at the same time: it is thought better' and equally as effectually done with a tena- culum, with the back turned towards the humour in the first place, then afterwards turning its point towards it, the capsule is to be scratched with it, and by using gentle pressure on the eje, the lens immediately escapes. The only parts divided in this operation are the transparent cornea, and the capsule of the lens, which allows the lens to escape, as well as the aqueous humour. When the operation is finished, if the iris projects below the flap, which is made by