LECTURE I. S7 increased. A stone in the bladder causes pain in the extremity of the penis. A disease of the prostate gland, causes pain at the basis of the sacrum, and not unfrequently in both thighs. A disease of the stomach will produce pain in the left shoulder. A disease of the liver a sympathetic alfection in the right shoulder. A diseased testicle pain in the loins. An affection of the mesenteric glands of the rectum produces an itching at the nose. Examples of the secondkind, or sympathetic diseased action. Diseases in the urethra very frequently produce in- flammation of the testicles, sometimes of one, at other limes of both. The glands in the groin are often affected with sympa- thetic bubo, in consequence of gonorrhceal inflammation, which disappear as soon as the cause subsides or is removed. Hiccup and convulsive action of the diaphragm is a symptom of a mor- tification. But of all organs to which these effects are produced, none are more frequently afifected than the stomach. For in- stance, if a blow is received on the head, causing injury to the brain, vomiting is the first and almost constant symptom, and by this we are led to detect such injury. Vomiting is produced when the testes are injured, or intestines hurt, wounded, or strangulated; it will often arise from the mere introduction of a bougie, when it is attended with faintness; or from a gall stone passing the biliary duct; or calculi passing through the ureters into the urinary bladder, &c. An obtuse pain in any part will occasion vomiting; but an injury to the stomach itself will be attended with fatal effects. A man walking through Fleet- street quarrelled with a woman; another female came up, and gave him a blow on the region of the stomach, which caused almost instan'aneous death. Upon dissection, to trace the cause of his expiring so suddenly, no disease could be per- ceived. A man belonging to the India House, while lifting a weight, which he was almost incapable of doing, was accident- ally struck by another while in the act of extension, and he fell down; no life was perceived in him, and attempts to restore animation were ineffectual; on being opened, there was hardly any appearance deviating from the natural, except a small part opposite to where he received the blow, which appeared red.