LECTUHE XII. 140 fatal than in adults. It seems also that the bite of a rattle- snake produces similar effects. Treatment. If the wound is inflicted on the finger or hand, a tight liga- ture is to be applied above the part, to arrest the progress of the fluid. Mr. Astley Cooper was led to adopt this plan, which it seems was countenanced by Fontana, from its having been practised on himself with success. Whilst lecturing on comparative anatomy, a viper accidentally bit him ; a ligature was immediately applied by Mr. Fox above the wound: there was a slight ecchymosis the following day on the back of the hand, but no constitutional irritation. If it happens to a limb, a roller is to be put on, by which the operation of the poison is confined to the part, and absorption impeded. Excision is to be adopted in cases where this cannot effectually be employed, and your patient has fortitude to submit; or cauterizing the part with the kali purum, should he demur; or inserting the pulv, lyttae in powder. Constitutionally the eau de luce is a great favourite, which some employ externally also. Olive oil has been equally celebrated, employed in the same manner, in- wardly and outwardly. Dr. Mead advises emetics. Mr. Ire- land, Surgeon to the 4th Battalion of the 6oth Regiment, for- merly a pupil of Mr. Chevalier's, has inserted a very interest- ing account of the varieties of serpents in the West India Islands, in the Second Volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, and four cases which were cured by the adminis- tration of arsenic, originally noticed in Russell's History of Indian Serpents, from facts communicated by Mr. Duffin and Ramsay, of the efficacy of the celebrated Tanjore pill, in .which this was a principal ingredient. Dr. F^owler's solution of arsenic was employed, containing one grain of arsenic in two drachms of liquid, ij.. liquor, arsenic. 3ij., tinct. opii. gtt. X. aq. menth. pip. ยง iss., this medicine to be given during the slight act of effervescence, which Iss. of lime or lemon juice would occasion. The medicine was continued every half hour for eight times successively, using this liniment, R. ol. terebinth. Liquor, ammon, aa. Iss., ol. olivar. I iss. When