70 LECTURE V. sion of the sides. Tinctura lyttae has been also used to bring on the same effect. A caustic bougie may be also introduced. If the sinuses have two openings, it will be best to make an incision between them both, and proper applications introduced. A sinus in the rectum (fistula in ano) is not to be cured in this way, and rarely by injection. The reason is, that on the motion or contraction of the gut, the sides of the sinus separate ; here a cut must be made through the rectum, the whole length of the sinus, and the sinus on that side of the gut. 8th. The next obstacle opposed to the healing of ulcers is, a suppression of the menstrual discharge; when this happens, it is seldom found an ulcer will be at eTU disposed to heal, and will continue in this state so long as the cause remains. In cases of this nature it is necessary to give stimulants, to excite them to an healthy action, and the best medicine to answer this purpose is Dr. Griffith's mixture, composed of myrrh, steel, zinc, &c. and to the sore the best application will be mercurial ointment, or the aq. calcis : but these local applications will avail little, •without we are successful at the same time in restoring the natural vigour of the constitution. Indurations are ofte^|^served in those who have obstructed menses in their losPT extre- mities. 9th. Sores are very subject to a fungus state, the effect of ex- traneous bodies irritating the granulations, commonly attended with bloody serum instead of pus, and of an offensive nature. Nails growing into the skin often produce fungus, by the great irritation they cause; it was usually the custom to destroy this excrescence by means of caustic; but this treatment is evidently improper, as the fungus was always found to grow again; and it naturally must, as long as the cause existed, namely, the irri- tation produced by the nail, which ought to be cut out in the following manner : put the foot or hand into warm water ; suffer it to remain for some time, then scrape the nail through with a piecre of glass, then putting a piece of lint under the nail, for the purpose of raising it, which being done, cut it off. There is another method, which is, to pass a pair of scissars about one- eighth of an inch in length under it, so as to slit it up; but this latter mode, although quicker, yet is attended with a good deal