78 LECTURE VI. flow Itself. If the boil is large, and very painful, it will be ad- visable to have recourse to opium : if the patient is much de- bilitated, bark and the sulphuric acid may be given; mild pur- gatives are to be employed. ON THE CARBUNCLE. A carbuncle is an abscess in which the cellular structure takes on a sloughy state ; it differs not from a common process in its containing matter. The first appearance it assumes is smiilar to a boil, and of a bluish colour, raising a little above the skin, having within it commonly a bloody serum. It can be distinguished from other swellings by pressure, which causes a discharge in several parts of its surface ; it occurs mostly in old people, and in those accustomed to a debauched life, as tending in a great degree to debilitate and undermine the con- stitution. In England we see it preceded and accompanied by typhoid symptoms; abroad it marks the plague and other malignant disorders. Richerand tells us, in some provinces of France there is a particular species of this malignant boil. Carbuncles are seen very extensive occasionally, and the dan- ger is proportionable to the extent and seat of the disease : they are most commonly observable on the back, and are considered more favourable in this situation than when on the head, as the membrane lining the brain, the dura mater, would be partak- ing of the disease; and in this latter case the patient becomes delirious. Sometimes, when on the neck, they are to be con- sidered in a favourable point of view, at other times not so, and this will be favourable or not, according to the concurring circumstances. When in the rectum, the prognosis is un- favourable. As these malignant boils so easily take on a gan- grenous or mortified disposition: the same treatment here will be necessary as in those affections. Warm fomentations (the warmer in reason the better) are to be made use of; emollient poultices will also be proper. Stimulants also, as turpentine or the mercurial plaster, &c. may be of advantage. Incisions should be made, which will relieve the skin greatly, by taking off the sloughy substance ; but making openings in the very begin- ning of the disease, with any other view, than that of taking