LECTURE XIY. 174 cuated, throw in the injection into the tunica vaginalis. The tinoe commonly allowed for it to remain, is from three to five minutes, according to the degree of pain excited, moving the scrotum from side to side, for the purpose of producing an equal irritation ; when withdrawn, lint and adhesive plaster is all that is necessary. In introducing the trocar, care should be taken not to do it in a hurry, nor plunge it in suddenly, but keeping it obliquely upwards, and gently rolling the hand : the Lest part for making the puncture, is about two-thirds of the tumour downwards, remembering to let the trocar pass suffi- ciently deep into the tunic. When the water is evacuated, take hold of the scrotum, and the part of the vaginal tunic which is around the point of the canula, and then throw in your injection. The first symptoms that ther patient feels, is a pain in the region of the kidneys, i^i the thigh also of the diseased side, in the groin, and at the neck of the bladder. The symp- toms are so common, that the patient may be previously ac- quainted with them. The time that the injection is to remain has already been mentioned, but it will be necessary to ob- serve, that if the patient should not be affected within the course of five or six minutes, it would be advisable to leave a small portion of the injection within the tunic, or in prefer- ence, let it exceed the time mentioned. A gradual degree of pain excited, will prove more certain of a cure than when in- flammation is at first violent, as partial adhesions in the latter instance commonly take place. The first mark of cure is a redness of the scrotum, observable in about twenty-four hours. In forty-eight hours the scrotum will be as large as it was pre- vious to the operation; but in elevating it, the weight will be much greater. This arises from the effusion of coagulable lymph, and if pressure is made at this time on any part of it, there will be a feeling in it, as in anasarca. The swelling in the course of a week diminishes, and in a fortnight will be still further reduced, if not entirely removed : but this must depend upon the degree of absorption. Even this operation, as simple as it may appear to be, yet is not without its danger, of which three cases could be instanced : one was an old man who had the operation performed on him.