LECTURE XXXllI. F F 2 SCROPHULOUS TESTES, Is an affection which generally takes place from the seventeenth to the twenty-second years of age, but the disease has been seen in a boy eight or nine years old. It mostly appears in the form of a tubercle at the anterior part of the epidydimis, though sometimes it affects the body of the testes. Dr. Haighton, on dissecting a patient, who died of this complaint, found the same kind of scrophulous matter in the vesiculae seminales, as was contained in the epidydimis. Of all the scrophulous affections, this most readily yields to the exhibition of mercury. Calomel, given internally, and the ung. hydrarg. c. camph. rubbed into the scrotum are mostly employed. The disease will often attack both testes at once, yet very little pain will be produced, although they are very much enlarged. If matter forms in the testis, the function of it will certainly be destroyed. ON EACHrris. Ricketts is generally considered a scrophulous affection, but it occurs at a period prior to this disease showing itself. It is one of the earliest diseases which attacks the bones, and is mostly accompanied with an enlargement of the mesenteric glands ; in this way, the due degree of nourishment is not transmitted to the system ; which \vill have the effect of rendering the consti- tutional disease much worse than it would otherwise be. The blood, by the existence of these enlargements of the glands, is prevented from receiving a due quantity of osseous matter from the food taken into the stomach, and the bones are conse- quently deficient in their solid texture: they are rendered so weak as to be unable to support the weight of the body, and joints are frequently forming in the middle of cylindrical bones. I have seen a specimen of a child who had two additional joints in each os humeri, and one in each os femoris. All the na- tural joints are vary much enlarged : the wrist is remarkably so. The head is also undergoing an alteration in its shape; it is much enlarged; the forehead is very prominent, and thefachial