tECTURE XIX. exercise is used, exacerbations of pain come on in consequence of the existence of inflammation, attended witli profuse s\veat- ino", nausea, and frequent vomiting. A benumbed sensation is extending from the kidney across the abdomen to the umbilicus: tliere is also a paleness or sallowness in the countenance. If the pain is excessive, it extends to the opposite loin. The urine is rather diminished in quantity, and there is often observable during the violent pains, not only a difficulty in making water, but a good deal of blood discharged and mixed with it: this bloody appearance, however, is known to take place after vio- lent exercise on horseback independent of calculi. A calculus in the kidney will sometimes cause suppuration of the latter. The abscess has been described, as pointing towards the loins, and that the stone might be easily felt; for the purpose of ex- tracting it, an opening has been advised to be made. Inflamma- tion will sometimes produce an adhesion between the kidney and the colon, in consequence of which, during the suppurative stage, a communication takes place between the two, and the stone will be voided by the rectum. When calculi form in the kidney, their situation is most frequently in the infundibula. In cases, therefore, where they have long existed in this viscus, they commonly take on the form of the pelvis and infundibulum. Their texture is laminated, and is a substance mostly made up of uric acid. The circumstaace of calculi forming in the ureters is com- paratively speaking rare. T have heard of but three instances of it in the dead subject; in the living there are many charac- terizing marks of the existence of the disease. The symptoms are, pain felt in the hip, thigh, and leg of the aff"ected side im- mediately on the existence or entrance of the stone: as it gets lower, the thigh becomes painful along the course of. the.ante- rior crural nerve, which is united to the nerve going to the ure- ter by the spermatic plexus : as the stone descends still further, pam and contraction of the spermatic chord takes place from a spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle, which draws up the testicle to the abdominal ring. In addition to these, a tmghng sensation will be expenenced at the end of the penis; in fact, 1.believe there are very few cases occurring where stone R 3