LECTURE XXVI. aoi were discharged into the abdomen, and she did not survive six hours. The following case will shew the absolute necessity of per- fectly understanding the anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia, as well as the morbid anatomy of those parts. The case is detailed by Mr. Cooper. A woman had the ope* ration performed by a surgeon ; she experienced no relief what- ever >from it;—^on consultation, there could be no doubt the formidable symptoms arose from violent inflammation. The woman died soon afterwards, and on examining the body it was discovered that the covering of the sac was gone; on looking further, the sac Avas found pushed into the abdomen unopened, so that the stricture still existed. The intestine was mortified. The fascia propria was also pushed back, but it had been opened. There is not the least risk oif either wounding the epigastric artery or vein, unless the cut is made outwards, which no man in his senses would think of doing. This artery passes on the outside, but at an extreme distance from the mouth of the sac. Preparations are apt to give a wrong idea of its situation. It is only by making an extensive incision towards the spine of the ilium that it could be wounded, and in doing of which a risk would be incurred of wounding the femoral vein. The spermatic chord is quite out of the reach of the knife, and it scarcely requires notice, as femoral hernia is most common in females, where no chord exists, aijd in males it crosses over the anterior part of the sac, at such a distance, and so far behind Poupart's ligament as to be entirely out of the way; supposing however, the orifice of the sac to be so large as to lead to a fear of doing so, pass a director under Poupart's ligament and divide the ligament; but this, 1 believe, never will be found ne- cessary. There is a variety now and then seen in femoral hernia, where the obturator artery passes over the sac, but was this more fre- quent than it is, still I conceive it ought not to be an obstacle to the present mode of operating; as the stricture is commonly in the crural sheath j but even if it was at the posterior edge of