LECTURE Xlir. 102 FuNiGUS CEREnni, OR Encephalocele.—J^oMwrfs of the brain are commonly followed hy fungus : the treatment of ic is of the utmost importance, for if left alone, or improperly managed, the consequence would be fatal; sloughing would come on, so as to cause inflammation, the result of which will be suppuration of the brain. This fungus is formed of co- agulable lymph on its surface, and brain at its root, and is in- sensible, owing to its little vascularity and growth, being too rapid to allow of its being organized. The treatment is simple; if it projects through the bone, cut it off by means of a silk ligature tied round its base, or it may be pared off with a kuife ; then apply a piece of lint, over it a strap of adhesive plaster, then bind a proper bandage over the whole. From violent blows on the head, a portion of bone will sometimes be forced into the substance of the brain, produc- ing epilepsy, and its results. A case of this kind, which ter- minated favourable, occurred to Mr. Foster, one of the sur- geons to Guy's Hospital. A man was brought in with a con- siderable fracture, with depression ; violent epileptic fits came on, and the prognosis was very unpromising. Mr. Foster having raised the depressed bones, discovered that a small por- tion of it, not larger than a thorn, had pierced the substance of the brain; the man on the removal of it speedily recovered. In case a part of the brain has been lost^ from the severity of the accident, if that portion lost is not greater in extent than that of the fractured bone, I should not trephine. ON the formation of matter within the skull. In injuries of the brain, many days and sometimes weeks ■will elapse before inflammation supervenes; and it.is generally the case, that the progress of it is mudi slower m this organ, than in other parts of the body; when it happens, the first sen-» sation is, an acute pain in the head, with a cessation 6f dis- charge from the wound; and the wound, which before pre- sented an healthy aspect, assumes a livid and glossy appear- ance : on feeling carefully around its edges, the parts, as in anasarca, yield to the finger on pressure, and will have a very