112 LECTURE IX. and be evacuated with the faeces; cutting the ends of the liga- tures off was originally recommended by Mr. Benjamin Bell. Thus we have five experiments in opposition to Mr. Travers's assumption, exclusive of those made by Dr. Smith, who em- ployed four stitches with equal Success. Thus it would appear, that, unless there is a complete divi- sion of the tube, from three to four sutures are all that is necessary, and in the latter case probably it would be advisable to make as many as five: one fact is clear, the ends are to be cut off close to the intestine—that I believe is universally agreed on:—it would appear, that inflammation is much more violent and unrestrainable when the small intestines are wounded than the large. It has been recommended by some specula- tive surgeons, to introduce one end of the gut into the other, when divided; if these gentlemen had attended more to ex- periment, and less to theory and soipe fanciful notions of their own, they would have been convinced of the impossibility of effecting such an absurdity. In all these wounds the apparent debility, w^eakness of pulse, and coldness of the extremities; would deter many from using depletion; but if not done, the patient inevitably sinks. WOUNDJi OF THE LIVER, &C. Wounds of the liver, when small, as those made with a pen- knife, may be recovered from, but if larger they are fatal: the patient is seized with vomiting, great pain, &c. A rupture of the liver, from blows or carts going over the body, is universally fatal. A wound of the spleen is ever fatal; and it is rather singular, that this visciis may be entirely removed without detriment, yet the smallest wound will inevitably occasion death. There is a case recorded by a surgeon, who found a wound made by a sabre in the person's side, and the spleen hanging out; the surgeon cut it off, closed the wound, and the man recovered. Mr. Coleman and several others have removed the spleen in dogs with impunity. A man resisting a press- gang received a wound in the spleen, only half an inch in length, from a dirk; a great haemorrhage followed, and the