LECTURE III. ened, then we are immediately to desist. When any secreting surfaces are the subject of inflammation, and more particularly those of jomts, it will be our aim to prevent its extending to the suppurative process, here we must use bleeding, though it should occasion debility in the system, both locally as well as generally. Purging is considered as otye of the most effectual remedies in inflammation for three reasons, the first is, by dischargmg the feces, and taking off the irritation produced .n the intestinal canal; secondly, by restoring the secretions of the ali.nentary tube; and lastly, by deriving blood from the surfaces inflamed to the intestines. ^ For children, calomel with rhubarb to be given every fourth night if the disease be acute, but if not every sixth night, as mercury, when given too often, has been known to have been attended with bad effects. For adults, calomel with cathartic extract, m proportion of a grain and an half of the former, and five grains of the latter, has been considered as very beneficial when given at proper intervals, that is, repeated according to the acuteness of the disease; but if it should not be found sufli- ciently active as a purgative, it w ill be better to give, the follow- ing morning, the magnesia sulphas or oleum ricini. It is very necessary to be particularly careful in giving the mercurial, espe- cially in scrophulous cases, and in venereal ones combined with the latter affection, when the complaint will be more aggravated than relieved. One of the principal practitioners in town em- ploys mild purgatives of the saline kind—Glauber's, Epsom, or Rochelle salts. Drastic purgatives are to be avoided, of ■whatever kind, as they produce very considerable irritation generally in the constitution. Another mode of lessening inflammatory action is by per- spiration, by which the edges of the crassamentum being drawn towards each other, and forming a kind of cup, drains the sys- tem of its redundancy, and drives the blood to the surface of the body. Reciprocal affections also take plac* in the kidneys bj an increaiie of the urinary discharges. For the accomplishment of these means various remedies have been suggested, in fact it will often be brought about by means of the remedies already