LECTURE XXXIII. 4I3 be found useful : this stimulates the vessels, and assists the for- mation of granulations, and at the same time, by its chemical properties, it expedites the process of exfoliation. The disease very generally ends in a more or less degree of anchylosis. Sometimes the deposit is merely gelatinous, at others, a deposition of earthy matter takes place. If it be the first or adhesive kind, as it is termed, there is mostly some slight degree of motion remaining in the joint, and under these circumstances, a hope may be entertained of its returning to its former extent. It is by the treatment of such cases as these, that Mr. Grosvenor, of Oxford, has obtained such merited re- putation. It is by friction he succeeds, one hand is rubbed up, while the other passes down on the limb, both are in motion at the same time; this plan ought to be persevered in for at least half an hour daily. A little chalk or oil on the palms of the hands will prevent excoriation of the skin on the joint. If it appears from the degree of inflammation which had taken place, a com- plete anchylosis may ensue, it is right to consider what degree of flexion or extension the limb ought to be placed in, in order to enable the patient to derive the most efiicient services from it, m its fixed state: if it is allowed to remain straight it will be extremely inconvenient to the patient, for if the disease has existed in the knee-joint, he will be compelled to take a cir- cuitous step, and, if in the elbow, he will be enabled to assist himself with that limb almost in any way whatever; therefore considering these circumstances, rather a bent position will be the best. DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. There is some degree of variation in the symptoms which generally attend a scrophulous affection of this, and the other , joints of the body. The hip-joint is rather a frequent seat of the disease. The surgeon may detect the existence of this compldmt by the following symptoms and appearances; at the commencement the patient will mostly complain of a great deal of pain on the inside of the knee of the af-