LECTURE XXIX. 335 intervening days: it has succeeded in removing the stricture after a few applications. Several cases could be detailed, proving, beyond a doubt, its utility. Other instances could be inserted in whom it had produced very distressing symptoms, such as retention of urine, &c,; to prevent which, it is ex- tremely necessary to be cautious in the first introduction, the suppression being caused by the great degree of irritability in- duced in the urethra. It has happened that the artery of the bulb has been destroyed by its use, and thus an alarming hae- morrhage took place, and ultimately the formation of a spu- rious aneurism. From its having been used improperly or in- cautiously, false passages have been made, which are always troublesome, and not totally unattended with danger. Such are the disadvantages of the caustic bougie, which, I may re- mark, are principally to be attributed to the mode of applying it; although, on the other hand, 1 must candidly confess in this brief account, even in the hands of the most skilful men it has frequently failed. The cure must be effected either by dila- tation of the contraction, or destruction of it. To whom is the profession indebted for this last plan of treating strictures ? To Mr. Hunter. His ideas were too original to be a copyist. He began with red precipitate. Sir Everard Home has writ- ten a very excellent work on strictures, advocating the plan of Hunter. Mr. Whately has favoured the world with a new method of treating strictures; it is on the same principle, so that there is no novelty in this respect: he prefers the kali purum. ©N FISTULA IN PERINEO. It has its origin from an enlargement of one of the lacunae, in consequence of inflammation, resulting from the application of the matter of gonorrhoea to that part of the urethra, in its extension downwards towards the neck of the bladder, causmg a stricture. It is variously situated as well as formed ; being sometimes found in perineo, at other times further back, form- ing a communication between the urethra and rectum. It is - most frequently arising from strictures; the internal membrane f