LECTURE XXXI. 382 It has been stated by many authors, that the foetus in utero cannot contract the venereal disease, but I entertain with others, a different opinion ; from the experience of an eminent sur- geon, who has vouched for the fact, I will take upon myself to assert positively, that it can ; that a child can be contaminated while remaining in utero. Mr. Hunter was of the former class of writers. I have never seen a child born with venereal erup- tion on the skin; but I have seen them with the disease existing a fortnight subsequent to the birth of the infant. Mr. Cooper states in his Lectures, the same fact. They chiefly made their appearance on the nates, on the soles of the feet, and on the palms of the hands; the latter being most commonly affected. In these cases, children require nothing more to cure the dis- ease than the milk of the mother; if she is taking or using mer- cury herself. I am of opinion, that a woman who has a child in utero is incapable of being cured of the venereal disease, as frequently large quantises of mercury has been given, and con- tinued a long time without destroying the virus : for although apparently they were cured, every symptom being completely removed, yet soon after the child had been born, the disease re-appeared, requiring a complete course of the medicine to cure it. It requires a good deal of experience to distinguish in every case, the venereal disease from others that resemble it: but when a surgeon has once seen the different varieties, (and every young man has a fine opportunity in the wards of the London hospitals of seeing them), the diagnostic is not attended with much difficulty. Persons will fr(;quently apply for relief, sup- posing they have caught the disease, when, in reality, it is merely an excoriation which they take for a venereal ulcer; here some mercenary wretches, who are a disgrace to their profession, have an opportunity of gratifying their propensities; but the conscientious surgeon, who has integrity and character to main- tain, would spurn at such practices; if it is not accompanied with the surrounding thickening of the skin, it is the latter, and may be cured by the spir. vin. c. aqua. It sometimes happens, that after mercury has been given for