iNTRODtJCTOBY LECTURE. 1 . .t \t The consequence resulting from such treatment is IhTpatients Lays die,lnd that from a deficiency of anatomical is in discriminating dis^^^^ ledie of the disease is more than half the cure. Ihns, f.om ^ant of this acquirement, Dislocations are so often mis- akel A gentleman of respectabUity lately apphed to a sm- leo" of eminence in town to know what was the.matter w.d. ' r-it was soon perceived, on looking carefully avhe stood up i.li that there.as a difference m h.s shoulders ^^nd on Ser examination, it was clearly found h.s shoul er was d.s- o ated and it was made known to hm.. He then told the urgeon tlat the practitioner in the country whom he had or. l!lly consulted at the time of the accident had assured hun ft was not dislocated. It had happened too long before to af- ford any chance of reducing it, and he returned mto the country to expose the ignorance, and perhaps be the means of rmnmg the person who had thus deceived him. In another case of dislocation, that of the hip-joint, a consultation was held on the subject, and it was very gravely declared by the members pre- sent (a precious set of wise-acres), not to be so. In a few weeks afterwards another surgeon, somewhat more sagacious than the trio alluded to, attending the^gentleman s wife during her accouchement, saw it, and told him it actually was dislocated; attempts were made to reduce it, but in vain ; and the final re- sult of this unfortunate case was, that he was lame ever Anatomy will clear- you from these mistakes. There are certain parts of it more useful to be known than others. Every surgeon ought to be perfectly acquainted with the processes of the bones, and their relative situations with respect to each other; and on the dead subject, examine their position through the integuments. The joints must be carefully and accurately known and understood. A minute acquaintance with the mus- cles is not so necessary, those of the abdomen are the principal, and the large muscles of the limbs and joints : the functions of these ought to be well studied, as some of them impede the re- duction of dislocations. The situation of the large arteries