57 LECTUKE IV. are seen on healing old ulcers of the legs. Surgeons were for- merly in the habit of making issues in other places, but pur- gatives persevered in for some time are now deemed preferable, and sufficient for every purpose. Patients have been attacked with asthma, on healing an ulcer in the leg of long continuance; and also an hjemoptoe has followed now and then, and on the ulcer's again breaking out, the spitting of blood ceased, and this happened two or three times. OF ABSCESSES. An abscess means a collection of matter in a cyst. In cellular textures, prior to the formation of matter, coagulable lymph is effused, forming a kind of wall or cyst, by means of which the further increase of the disease is prevented and arrested. In the middle of this wall you will observe a partition and a small quantity of matter, which is poured into the coagulable lymph, so that by its pressure it produces the absorption of parts. This process goes on in a regular manner, and matter is still secreted, and the process of absorption continues as long as matter is poured out, till at last, with the assistance of the pressure, the whole is taken up. The danger attending abscesses are several. The 1st is, when they are very large and present a vast extent of surface. 2dly. When seated in an organ essential to life, the brain or heart for instance, where the lodgment of a very small quantity of matter would prove fatal ; but other organs, such as the lungs and the liver, although very important, do not appear to sympathize with the constitution so much ; abscesses in them will be suffered to exist to a great exent. 3dly. When not seated in parts important to life, yet by their pressure on any essential organs, renders the case very different. Matter, for example, seated behind the pharynx, so as to press on the trachea, will destroy life. There is one case on record however of this kind, which ended favourably, free vent having been given to the confined matter, by an opening into the sac, which relieved the patient from the most imminent danger. 4thly and lastly. When matter begins from a bone extending to the sur- face of the body; and this is the great cause why lumbar