416 LECTURE XXXIII. Issues, in the treatment of the disease, are to be principally depended on, with the same precautions as have been before recommended in the varieties of scrophula. Rest is at the same time to be advisied. ON PSOAS AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. These diseases properly follow that which 1 have last de- cribed, for they are quite of the same origin ; they are be- ginning in the Hgaments of the spine in consequence of in- flammation, or of the scrophulous disposition taking on a diseased action: matter is effused between the ligaments and the bone, and this fluid is taking its course in the direction of the psoas muscle to the upper part of the thigh ; or if the pus is seated on the lateral parts of the spine, it passes backwards by the side of the vertebrze, so as to appear upon the loins j but wherever the matter makes its appearance the diseases are one and the same. The symptoms are but few : it commences ■with a pain in the loins, and which prevails for four or live months before there is any appearance to announce tlie nature of the complaint in a precise manner. The patient complains of a stiffness in the part, so as to have a difficulty in stooping. The pain often extends down to the thigh of the diseased side in the direction of the crural nerve : but if it is a lumbar abscess, the pain is experienced more in the sciatic nerve. After these symptoms have continued for a time, a swelling is perceived in the groin, in the situation of a common bubo. It first appears on the inner side of the femoral vein between it and the pubes, not larger than a walnut: when in this state, it is very easily mistaken for a femoral hernia, it being exactly in the situation of this disease, and what still tends further to mislead, is, that on putting the finger upon it, and desiring the patient to cough, the situation will be precisely the same as if a portion of in- testine was protruded. The discrimination is so difficult sometimes that a surgeon of great experience has recommend- ed a truss. When it appears at the groin, it gradually extends downwards under the fascia lata of the thigh, and by this means is confined, while a femoral hernia is most invariably