LECTURE XXIX. 340 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. This is a disease attributable also to gonorrhoea originally, in some instances. It occurs frequently in elderly people after the age of sixty. It causes retention of urine, in consequence of the posterior lobe of the prostate being so enlarged as to act as a valve upon the urinary canal. The gland becomes in- flamed, and this is mostly succeeded by suppuration. The prostate of old people is naturally enlarged, particularly when the urethra has been very much excited. It happens to be a provision of nature, to prevent an incontinence of urine, which would otherwise often be the case, as the muscles lose their tone to such a degree as almost to have lost their powers of action. It is frequently found enlarged in three different parts. The urethra within it is also so much dilated, that a surgeon is liable to be deceived in passing the catheter, supposing he has entered the bladder, when in fact the instrument remains still in the urethra. The symptoms of an enlarged prostate are in many respects similar to those of the stone; instead, however, of feeling a sharp pain at the extremity of the penis, it is only a sense of numbness: great tension in the regis pubis on dis- charging the urine, which passes off in sudden gushes, requiring considerable force to void small quantities of it: there is a sense of weight in the perineum, and sharp pain in the neck of the bladder when voiding faeces: next, the patient is incapable of making water without going to stool. The desire to evacuate the urine is greater in a recumbent, than in an erect position of the body. A total retention is the consequence, which is more particularly distressing in the night, arising from a great accu- mulation of-urine at this time. When the urine is drawn oft, it is of a chocolate colour, and peculiarly foetid. The reason why a retention is greater in the morning before the patient rises, than it is at another time, is, that the third, or posterior lobe'of the gland, is at that time acting as a valve upon the opening into the urethra, in consequence of the pressure of tlie accumulated urine behind it. The existence of the complaint may very generally be ascer- tained by an examination of the part per anum. Though it »