426 LECTURE XXXIV. seated on the scalp. When on the integuments of the head, the cyst is found to be very thick. ABSORBENT GLANDULAR TUMOURS. The absorbent glands will not unfrequently become enlarged, in persons who are apparently healthy in every respect. Cases have occured of this kind, where they have increased to such a degree as to destroy the patient; but this does not often take place. The character of this swelling is, that it resembles the scrophulous enlargement of these glands; but in the af- fection I am now writing on, the glands affected are rather harder, and have the feel of a scirrhus tumour. They are very moveable, and not attended with pain. They will continue gradually enlarging for a number of years, without inducing any unpleasant effects, but when they inflame, ulcerate, and their contents are discharged, they will then produce such a degree of severe constitutional irritation that the patient will not unfrequently sink under it. The situation which they mostly occupy is the neck. They should be extirpated pre- vious to the accession of the inflammatory symptoms. As these are originally contained in the cellular membrane, when the glands become enlarged, this is condensed around them, and forms a cyst. When they suppurate the contents is not pus, but appears similar to rice in texture, contained in a small bag. Danger exists in attempting the removal of these tu- mours from their connexion with large blood vessels, when seated about the neck : therefore, a surgeon ought not to ope- rate, unless the situation which they are placed in, is a favour- able one for using the knife, without endangering adjacent parts of importance. Sometimes they lie so contiguous, to the carotid artery, that this will be laid bare if they are removed. A case of this kind occurred to Mr. Hunter, who removed a tu- mour from the throat, weighing fifteen pounds, growing from among the arteries in that part. A surgeon, who had been previously consulted by the patient, told him, it must be either a madman or a fool, who would attempt its removal; but, Mr.