'^0 LECTDRB I. It may be termed temperate. The higher degrees up to 70° are called warm, and all above that hot. In the inferior range a few degrees below 60" is termed cool, and all below, coid. ■The arteries are divided into three orders, the sansuineous, seriferous, and lymphatics, each set conveying the different de- scription of fluids from whence their names are taken : fron^ the minuteness of the vessels this cannot easily be demonstrated, although it is so evident to our senses, as we find parts of the body that only transmit lymph. This is found to be the case in the minute ramifications of arteries called exhalents, and from which that transparent fluid lubricating the cavity of the thorax, abdo- men, &c. is derived, and also the insensible perspiration. The blood is an uniform homogeneous fluid ; in three or four minutes after it escapes it begins to coagulate, and a spontaneous sepa- ration takes place into serum and crassamentum. The crassa- mentum is found again to be composed of red particles and coagulable lymph, and this can be very easily demonstrated.— The lymph is of a size-like appearance, and becomes evident from the red particles subsiding from it. The blood is then composed of 3 parts serum, the lightest, coagulable lymph, or fibrin, next, and the cruor, or red particles, which are the heaviest of all. Professor Blumenbach calculates that the quantity of blood in the body is about 120 ounces troy; and allowing his assumption to be correct, that two ounces is expelled from the left ventricle at each contraction, and the pulsations 75 in a minute, it follows that 12|lbs. of blood will circulate through the heart every minute, being | more than the whole quantity ^ contained in the body, and the whole of the blood thus passes through the heart 75 times in each hour. The system is soon aflfected when a vessel or orifice is large, and the animal ex- pires from sudden exhaustion ; while, if blood was drawn from a small vessel or orifice, the vessels would be able to accommo- date themselves gradually to the loss, and we see in bleeding at the nose, the piles, &c. the blood escapes for days successively, and the quantity lost will be extremely great, and this with- out danger, while the same quantity drawn suddenly from a large vessel or orifice would prove fatal. Mr. Boyle found tfie specific gravity of blood to water to be as 1041 to 1000,