LECTURE XIT., 172 late Mr. Else; but this is now generally exploded, as it was impossible to know when the tunic was burnt by it, so that very often only partial adhesions took place. The present treatment is a good deal more simplified, and the cure attend- ed with much more certainty of success.. There are two modes only whereby the radical cure is to be accomplished. Thejirsl is by incision: the method is as follows : embrace the tumour with the left hand, then beginning the incision from the upper part, continue it downwards about three-fourihs, leaving the tunic partially adhering in some parts; it then becomes necessary to introduce some extraneous body to excite some degree of inflammatory action, for which purpose a small quantity of flour may be used, and to be rubbed gently against the tunic. The cure in this manner h not accomplished by means of adhesion, but by granulations, which fill up the whole of the cavity. There is one advantage attending this method of operating, ami that is, that we are better ac- quainted with the state of the testicle; but there is evidently, on the other hand, one great objection against it, on account of the violent irritation and inflammation produced by it, and its being notwithstanding sometimes unsuccessful: therefore it becomes necessary to have a milder substitute, and this has been amply attained by the means proposed by Sir James Earle, and which certainly do him great credit; and although many lay claim to the priority of this treatment, it signifies not a straw what was done formerly, it was principally through Sir James Earle that this treatment was so generally adopted by the profession. When Dr. Harvey discovered the circu-r Jation of the blood, what was endeavoured to be done ? why that it was no discovery at all, that it was known Lord knows how many centuries before! When Dr. Jenner proposed the vaccine, many searched all the old manuscripts and publica- tions to see if they could trace any hint that might be swelled out into something similar; so with respect to other disco- veries. But this species of illiberality is truly contemptible, and ought to be banished by every generous Briton. What ought to be looked to is, who is it, that is the means of di- recting the public attention to such a remedy or treatment,.