170 LECTURE XIV, irritable, and the patient naturally timid, the palliative will be found the most proper in these cases, as if the radical cure was to be attempted, the result might be very unfavourable, from too much irritation being caused in a constitution susceptible of it. The mode of performing the palliative operation is thus:—grasp the lower part of the tumour firmly with your left hand, squeezing it anteriorly, then feel for the testicle in the lower part, which will be easily discovered by the degree of pain excited, then laying hold of the scrotum, pass a small trocar ohliqueli/ upwards^ at its anterior and inferior part, by no means downwards, as the testicle would be more likely to be wounded: withdraw the trocar, leaving the canula, and when the fluid is evacuated through it, it may be removed; merely apply a bit of lint to the part, and over this a slip of adhesive plaster. Some prefer dividing the integuments, first with a lancet, and then using the trocar, but that is unnecessary here. To prevent ensuing inflammation, have the parts washed with a lotion, composed of liquor, ammon. acet., or the ammon. muriat. dissolved in vinegar. The water will perhaps require to be drawn off", in the above manner, two or three times a year. Sometimes, however, a spontaneous cure takes place. The water has been known to have been evacuated, and the tunic be completely filled again, a week after the operation; but this only occurs when the patient has a general tendency to dropsy, and should be treated accordingly; and I should make it a rule, whenever this tendency prevailed, to correct it before I proceeded to the radical cure. Even the palliative method , of operating, although apparently so simple, has been known to have been attended with serious consequences, arising from constitutional irritation, caused by improper subsequent treat- ment, or want of care, such as undergoing fatigue soon after the operation, making use of spirituous liquors too liberally, or by high-seasoned food; all which, for some time, the patient should be enjoined strictly to avoid. Two fatal instances have been seen, where a mortification came on, after a great deal of fatigue, &c. An hydrocele sometimes bursts of itself, but will fill again-, a blow received will occasion it, and perhaps, m- stead of being filled again with the same fluid, blood will take