226 LECTURE XIX. latter being in a diseased state, and that its formation is more from diseased mucous than from the urine. When, therefore, small portions of this calculus pass by urine, which may be easily known by analyzing them, the patient may be assured with confidence of the utility of the operation: there is com- monly a quantity of coagulable lymph coming off at the same time with the portions of stone.—The 3d. kind is the mulberry calculus, consisting of oxalate and phosphate of lime; so named from its resemblance to the mulberry stone.—The 4th. and last are termed the bone-earth calculi, composed of the phosphate of lime. A gentleman, whose name I do not at this moment recollect, has published an account in the Philosophical Transactions, from which it appears he has analyzed 150 calculi; and has given their component parts, shewing at the same time the forms in which they mostly occur, viz.: 16 of uric acid ; 45 of uric acid and a small quantity of phosphate : 66 of large quan- tities of ammonia and magnesia, and a small quantity of uric acid : 12 of phosphate of lime : 5 of uric acid with phosphate and a nuclus of phosphate of lime: and 6 of the mulberry calculi, or oxalate of lime. In the third volume of the Med. Chirurg. Transactions will be found the following minute analysis of urine by Benzelin:— Water 933.00; urea 30 10; sulphate of potass 3.71; sulphate of soda 3.l6; phosphate of soda 2-94; muriate of soda 4.45 ; phosphate of ammonia 1.65; muriate of ammonia 1.50; free lactic acid; lactate of ammonia; animal matter soluble in alcohol, and usually accompanying the lactates; animal matter insoluble in alcohol; urea- not separable from the preceding 17.14; earthy phosphates with a trace of fluate of lime 1.00; uric acid 1.00; mucus of the bladder 0,32; silex 0.©3 = 1000.00. MEDICAL TKEATMBNT. §ome calculi are acted upon by alkalies, others by acids. From the experiments of Fourcroy and Vauquelin, a weak solution of potass, or soda, gradually dissolves calculi com-