425 LECTURE XXXIV. contains a curd-like substance, but when the least active inflam- mation has existed in the vessels entering the cyst, in most in- stances a serous fluid will be effused, mixed with flakes of ca- agulable lymph. If this description of tumour should undergo the suppurative and ulcerative processes, it generally will not Ileal, and here caustics must be had recourse to, in order to re- move the cyst. The distinguishing characters of this particii^ lar swelling, is its being a circumscribed tumour, arising evi- dently from the cellular substance, with well-deflned edges, or boundaries. This is not the case in common abscess, as in this case the swelling is extended into the adjoining cellular sub* stance, and does not terminate so abruptly. There is a slight degree of fluctuation perceptible, and it is unattended with pain, unless at the time that it is approaching suppuration. The vessels entering it are mostly small in diameter, and it is frequently the case, that it is lined internally with a cuticle, from which hairs are produced; but these productions of the cuticle in this part, al"e different to those hairs growing on the surface of the body, on account of their not having any bulbs. In per- formmg an operation, for the removal of a tumour of this kind, there will seldom be any necessity for removing a portion of the superincumbent integuments, as it never arises to any great inagnitude. If the encysted tumour is the produce of parts, the removal of which would be attended with danger, from its vicinity to large blood-vessels, it will be better to adopt the plan , of opening it, and evacuating its contents ; and here some stimulating applications will be requisite, in order to in- duce the cyst to heal. A poultice is to be applied for the three or four days after an opening, then dress the inside of tile cyst with the ung. hydrarg. nitr. rubr. This method may be pur- sued when the swelling is seated on the face, on account of its producing a less degree of deformity than if it Was removed by the knife. These cysts, if very large, may also be treated as an hydrocele, by injection, zinci sulph. jj. aqua rosee Ib.j. M. This application will induce the adhesive inflammation in the cavity of the cy^t. Some persons appear to have the disposition to form a great number of these tumours, being generally