ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 410 ward the crest of the pubis, where one is completely lost, the other in part implanted. That fold which passes below the cord is completely implanted into the tough ligament which covers the tubercle of the pubes. The other pillar, when it reaches the pubes, sepai*ates into two bands; the posterior, or deeper-seated, is inserted along with the lower pillar into the tubercle of the pubes, and even extends to the opposite side. The other, and by far the most important fillet, winds oblique- ly inward, then bending backward between the penis and the cord, it at last incorporates itself with the fascia covering the heads of the triceps longus, the gracilis, and flexor muscles of the leg, and in some cases it can be traced much farther, and reaches even to the tendon of the glutaeus maximus, to which it is attached. This slip from the upper pillar of the canal, is always inseparably joined to the fasciae covering the cremaster; indeed, it may perhaps most properly be described as a part of Camper’s fascia, attached to the ring. I thought that this structure had not been noticed by any author. I find, however, that it has not escaped that indefatigable ana- tomist Camper, who delineates it very accurately in his plate. It is easiest detected by slitting up Camper’s fascia, by which I mean the sheath of the Cremaster, till we come near to the ring. When we have done this, if we then insinuate the point of the finger into the lower orifice of the canal in the adult, or ring in the child, we find that we are by this fillet prevented from carrying the finger toward the pubes. “ This part of the canal merits peculiar attention ; for who- ever is ignorant of the position and connection of this produc- tion from the upper pillar of the ring, can possess only a very confused notion of its action in disease. « When I shall have stated the anatomy of the groin in the young subject, and have pointed out the changes which take place on these as life advances, I shall then have occa- sion to notice the effect of this fillet in preventing the forma- tion of hernia; and also, we shall see that when a protrusion has actually taken place, it has a considerable share in pre- venting reduction.