ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. 112 but the inner part of the cartilage is tied by a capsular liga- ment to the edges of the pit of the sternum, and the concave part of the pit is connected, by fine cellular threads, only to the end of the cartilage, so that the cartilage and sternum, may, after cutting the capsular ligament, be separated from each other, without tearing the cartilaginous fibres. Hence, when the ribs are moved, the capsular ligament is twisted, and the end of the cartilage rolls upon the sternum *. The first rib of each side is so situated, that the flat sides are above and below, while one edge is placed inwards, and the other outwards, or nearly so ; therefore sufficient space is left above it for the subclavian vessels and muscle; and the broad concave surface is opposed to the lungs: In conse- quence of this situation, the channel for the intercostal vessels is not to be found, and the edges are differently formed from all the other, except the second ; the lower one being rounded, and the other sharp. The head of this rib is not divided into two plane surfaces by a middle ridge, because it is only articulated with the first vertebra of the thorax. Its cartilage is ossified in adults, and is united to the sternum at right angles. Frequently this first rib has a ridge rising near"the middle of its posterior edge, where one of the heads of the scalenus muscle rises. Farther forward it is flattened, or sometimes depressed, by the clavicle. The cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh, or rather the sixth, seventh, eighth, and sometimes the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth ribs f, are contiguous; and frequently they are joined to each other by cross cartilages; and most commonly the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, tenth, are con- nected to the former, and to each other by firm ligaments. The eleventh, and sometimes the tenth rib, has no tu- bercle for its articulation with the transverse process of the vertebra, to which it is only loosely fixed by ligaments. The • Vide Observations on the Oblique Muscles, Edin. Phil. Trans, vol. 3. -f- Vide plate 4th appended to my Father’s Treatise on the Oblique Muscles, •which represents the lengths and curvatures of the seven uppermost ribs and their cartilages. Ed. Phil. Trans, vol. iii.