ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 584 the experiments I have made, I have only to add, that these prefatory remarks are introduced not only as an apology, in some measure, for the imperfection of the following pages, but also on another account, to draw attention to a subject interesting in itself, and highly worthy of inquiry. The concretions which form the subject of this paper be- longed to Dr Monro, and it was at his request that I exa- mined them : with the exception of two, they all belonged to the human subject. As many of this number were similar in chemical proper- ties and composition, it would be useless, therefore, to give an account of the experiments that were made on each indivi- dual ; and it will be quite sufficient to describe the mode of ana- lysis followed in one instance of each kind. But, on the con- trary, as the different specimens individually varied from each other more or less in their appearance, and the propor- tion of their constituent parts, general description will not be sufficient; it will be necessary to describe particularly the va- rieties of colour, figure, &c. and to notice the proportions of the different ingredients, when these are ascertained. I shall commence with the analysis of a single specimen of each kind, and shall select the purest, as best adapted to the object in view. No. 1.—This concretion, of an irregular oval figure, was nearly the size of a pigeon’s egg. Externally, its colour was an impure white, and internally, a perfect white ; it was soft, and of glittering foliated texture, very like spermaceti. It sunk in water, and it was found to be of specific gravity 10o4. Gently heated in a platinum spoon, it melted, and, on cooling, crystallized unaltered. When rapidly and pretty strongly heated, it rose in dense fumes, having an odour somewhat re- sembling melted wax, took fire, burnt with a strong blight flame, and consumed without affording any sensible lesidue. When heated in a close vessel, it appeared much more fixed, and could scarcely be said to volatilize or sublime, foi it seemed rather to flow from the part most strongly heated, as if diivcn Jjj repulsion, than in consequence of assuming the gaseous