ELEMENTS OF ANATOM Y. 130 There are three foramina or holes on each side, on the exter- nal surface of the frontal bone. There is one in each super- ciliary ridge, a little removed from its middle towards the nose ; through which a twig of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves passes out of the orbit, with a small branch from the internal cai’otid artery, which is distributed on the teguments and muscles of the forehead. Instead of holes in the superciliary ridges, there are some- times only notches; and, in some skulls, not even a notch; and sometimes there is a notch on the one side, and a hole in the other. The vessels, in some skulls, make furrows in the os fron- tis, especially in the bones of children, as has also been ob- served of another considerable vessel of this bone, near its middle *; and hence the danger of transverse incisions on either side of the os frontis, which might either open these vessels or hurt the nerves, while they are yet in part within the bone; for, when vessels are thus wounded, it is difficult to stop the haemorrhagy, because the adhesion of a part of the artery to the bone hinders its contraction. Near the middle of the inside of each orbit, hard by, or in the transverse suture, there is a small hole called Foramen Orbitarum or Internum, for the passage of the nasal twig of the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and of a branch of the ophthalmic artery. The hole is sometimes entirely formed in the os frontis; in other skulls, the sides of it are composed of this last bone, and of the os planum. There is another and smaller hole, called Orbitarium Internum Posterius, about an inch deeper in the orbit; through which a small branch of the ocular artery passes into the nose. There are also a great number of small holes observable on the outer surface of this bone, particularly in the two protu- berances above the eye-brows. IVIost of these penetiate no farther than the sinuses, or than the diploe ; though some- times I have seen this bone so perforated by a vast number of these small holes, that, placed between the eye and a clear light, it appeared like a sieve. * Ruysch, Mus. Anat. Theca. D. Rcposit. 4, No. 3.