OF THE OS FRONTIS. 135 In some cases, the sinuses attain a very unnatural size, when polypi or other tumours are lodged within them. Notwith- standing the danger which has been supposed to arise from a fracture of the frontal bone over these sinuses, I have seen instances, in which a very large portion of the frontal sinuses had been detached by a fracture, and was removed: yet the patient obtained a complete recovery. Owing to the sensi- bility of the mucous lining of the sinuses, inflammation, or worms lodged in these sinuses, create great uneasiness. The upper circular part of the os frontis is joined to the ossa parietalia, from one temple to the other, by the coronal suture. From the termination of the coronal suture to the external angular processes, this bone is connected to the sphe- noid by the sphenoidal suture. At the external canthi of the eyes, its angular processes are joined by the transverse suture to the ossa malarum, to which it adheres one-third down the outside of the orbits ; whence to the bottom of these cavities, and a little up on their internal sides, these orbitar processes are connected to the sphenoidal bone by the same suture. In a few skulls, however, a discontinuation of these two bones appears at the upper part of the long slit, near the bottom of the orbit. On the inside of each orbit, the orbitar process is indented between the cribriform part of the ethmoid bone, and the os planum and unguis. The transverse suture after- wards joins the frontal bone to the superior nasal processes of the ossa maxillaria superiora, and to the nasal bones. And, lastly, its nasal process is connected to the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone. The frontal bone serves to defend and support the anterior lobes of the brain. It forms a considerable part of the cavi- ties that contain the eye-balls, and also a part of the septum narium, organ of smelling, Sic. The frontal bone of the foetus consists of two parts ; one of which is sometimes more prominent than the other, when water has been accumulated within the brain. The super- ciliary holes are not formed; often a small round piece of each orbitar process, behind the superciliary ridge, is not os- sified, and there is no sinus to be seen within its substance.