Elements of anatomy. 27 6 receive the internal condyle of the thigh-bone ; while the ex- ternal is more superficial, for the external condyle. In each of those two cavities of a recent subject, a semilunar cartilage is placed, which is thick at its convex edge, and becomes gra- dually thinner towards the concave or interior edge. The middle of each of these cartilages is broad, and the ends of them turn narrower and thinner, as they approach the middle protuberance of the tibia. The thick convex edge of each cartilage is connected to the capsular and other liga- ments of the joint; the narrow ends of the cartilages are fixed at the insertion of the strong cross ligament into the tibia : thus the surface of application between the bones forming the knee-joint is increased, and their semilunar cartilages at the head of the tibia afford, as it were, a variable socket for the condyles of the thigh-bone, that is (as Dr Paley has well expressed it) “ a concavity, the lines of which assume a dif- ferent curvature in different inclinations of the bones.” The circumference of these cavities is rough and unequal, for the more firm connexion of the ligaments of the joint. Immediately below the edge, at its back-part, there are two rough protuberances : Into the internal, the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted; and a part of the cross ligament is fixed to the external. On the outside of this last tubercle, a smooth slightly-hollowed surface is formed by the action of the poplitaeus muscle. Below the fore-part of the upper end of the tibia, there is a considerable rough protuberance, to which the strong ten- don, common to the four extensor muscles of the leg, is fixed. On the internal side of this, there is a broad scabrous slight- ly-hollowed surface, to which the internal long ligament of the joint, the aponeurosis of the vastus internus, and the ten- dons of the semitendinosus, gracilis, and sartorius, are fixed. The tibia ought not to be sawed through in an amputation above the insertion of these muscles, because the flexor mus- cles move, to a certain degree, the stump ; and besides, it is necessary to leave sufficient space for the application of an artificial leg. , Below the external edge of the upper end of the tibia.