OF THE SYNOVIA. 317 drawn upwards with such force, that the synovial apparatus may be injured. I shall first describe the structure of the fat, and afterwards that of the mucilaginous, glandular, or secerning organs. It_has been’ observed by Dr Havers * * * §, that the marrow consists of globules; and, viewed through a magnifying glass, looks like a cluster of pearls. Malpighi, and after him Morgagni, made the like ob- servation concerning the fat elsewhere in the body : He was, however, doubtful whether the fatty globules were contained in a proper membrane •f. The globules in the fat have been supposed to be much larger than those of the marrow; and it has been, in the most positive manner, denied by the learned Fn. Grutzmacher, who wrote on this subject in 1748, that the marrow and fat are inclosed with a peculiar membrane \ : And, consistent with this, the common opinion, supported by the authority of Winslow ||, and by the still later authority of Heister, Haller, Liedtaud, Sabatier, Plenck, Leber, he. §, is, • Cl. Havers, Ost. Nov. 1691, p. 197. + M. Malphighii Oper. Omn. Londin. 1686. De omento, pinguedine, et adiposis ductibus. An vero singuli adiposi globuli propria rursus investiantur pellicula oculus pertingere nequit. Morgagni, Adv. Anat 11. p. 16. Tota adiposa membrana ex sacculis constat; sacculi autem pinguiferis globulis, quasi glandulosis acinis, referti sunt. £ Fr, Grutzmacher, De Ossium Medulla, Lips. 1748. sect. xii. In pingue- dinis particula microscopio lustrata, corpuscula quidem in exteriori nimirum ejus parte invenimus, convexa et (igura quadam irregulari praedita, ast longe majora iis quae in medullae exteriore interioreve substantia fuere observata. Sect xi. Pinguedo aeque ac medulla nulla cingitur peculiari membrana Con- textus ille cellularis, in quo oleum animate sive pinguedo continetur, sine ulla fere cellularum destructione inflari potest. || Winslow, Tr. des Tegum. sect iv. 69. Les bouchers gonflent la membrane adipeuse, &c. 70. Les interstices cellulaires sont comme autant de petits sacs rernplis d’un sue buileux, que Pon apelle graisse. Tr. des Os Frais. 74, La moelle est divisee en une quantite des vesicules ou cellules membraneuscs, qui tapissent Ie3 cellules osseuses et communiquent toutes ensemble. § Heister, Comp. Anat. 1732, p. 73. sect. 20. De pinguedine. Haller, El. Phys. T. I. p. 33. Cellula: adeo varia figurae, adipi sunt pro loculis ;—ab uno «d omnes via patet.— Figura utcunque rotunda est, cum ipse adeps sponte se in