573 OF THE GALL-BLADDER. third, the abdomen was not opened till a month afterwards. All were opened alive. In all the three, the lymphatics were enlarged sensibly, and all contained a yellowish green and bitter tasted liquor, evidently bilious. In the second, the yellowish green colour and bitter taste could even be distin- guished in the thoracic duct. In all, the biliary ducts were enormously enlarged.” Of the Gall-Bladder. The gall-bladder is an organ which is not common to the- whole animal creation. It is wanting in the elephant, horse, stag, camel, rhinoceros and goat; in some of the cetacea, and in some birds, as the ostrich, pigeon, and parrot: hence it may be considered rather as a convenient than an essential organ ; and, in those animals in which the gall-bladder is awanting, the ductus communis choledochus is of unusual size, probably to make up for the want of the gall-bladder. The human gall-bladder is sometimes deficient. Mr Bryce told me he had met with such a malconformation in the person of a fat woman who died from jaundice. It may be also said to be awanting, in some cases, in the human body. I have seen it completely filled by a gall-stone, around which it was so firmly contracted that no bile could enter it; or a stone in the cystic duct impedes the entrance of the bile; and, in some of the organic derangements of the liver, in which that organ had attained an unnatural bulk, combined with an enlargement and induration of the lympha- tic glands of the capsule of Glisson, such a degree of pressure was made on the gall-ducts as prevented the bile from getting into the gall-bladder, for the gall-bladder was found to con- tain only mucus. In animals that have fasted for a long time, the gall-bladder and biliary ducts have been found very much distended with bile. This is not to be imputed to the stomach being empty, as Morgagni supposed *, which, therefore, did not force the bile out of the stomach; for, according to Haller, the sto- • Moaoxam, Epist. Anat. Med. 28. art, 6.