OF THE INTESTINES. 547 The longitudinal muscular fibres shorten the canal, and the circular fibres diminish its caliber, and in a very complete manner, so as to push on air or quicksilver. The intestines of a living animal are alternately distended and contracted, or move, in different directions, somewhat like a worm crawling along the ground, or perform what is called in the technical language, the peristaltic and antiperistaltic movements. The peristaltic movement is not continued regularly from the top to the bottom of the intestinal tube, but begins at once in several different portions of it. When the food comes into contact with a portion of intes- tine, that portion immediately contracts itself, forming a fixed point, towards which the portions above and below are drawn, by means of the longitudinal fibres, which shorten the canal, and, at the same time, dilate the under part. The antiperistaltic action is exactly the reverse of the above, and by it the food is turned over and over, and exposed to the orifices of the lacteal vessels. Should the free progress of the aliment be interrupted by this inverted action, the con- tents of the intestines are rejected by vomiting. The ra- pidity with which the peristaltic and antiperistaltic motions take place varies considerably, depending on the degree of excitement, and sensibility of the intestine. A mixed action has been described, which partakes of the peristaltic and antiperistaltic action. The peristaltic and antiperistaltic motions of the intestines are completely involuntary; they can neither be stopped nor accelerated, at pleasure. The muscular fibres, like the other muscles, may be said to be under the influence of the parti- cular stimulus of the chyme and bile. They are excited to an inordinate action by purgatives, cold, or other extraneous bo- dies, and even by passions of the mind. Cellular Coat. The third coat of the intestines is the cellular coat, which is the bond of union between the muscular and villous coats. Mm2