470 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 6. The nature of the secreted fluids, and the effects of the different secretory and excretory organs. Such an extensive view of the subject, beside unfolding the anatomical structure and particular use of the different organs, is calculated to exhibit an instructive physiological view of the relations established between them, and of the subserviency of all the functions of the animal economy to one another. Animals receive their food into an internal receptacle, or stomach, situated within the body. Vegetables are nourished by their roots, and by the vessels which open upon their sur- faces. Hippocrates has remarked, “ Ut terras arboribus, “ ita animalibus ventriculus.” But the observation of Hip- pocrates is not universally just; for in some of the inferior animals, as the hydatids which are sometimes found in the human body, a mouth is not visible. A relation is established between the external form of an animal, and its organs of sensation, mastication, and diges- tion. It is obvious, that if an animal did not possess the means of distinguishing and selecting that kind of food which is most proper for it, it would cease to exist. Hence the remarkable differences in the external form, and internal organization of carnivorous, graminivorous, and omnivorous animals, or those that feed alike upon animal and vegetable food. Carnivor- ous animals have sharp teeth, of a conical form, or a strong beak, for dividing their prey, an acute sense of smell, feet armed with claws, and capable of running or flying quickly, and are sufficiently strong to kill their prey. Animals that are vegetable eaters have hoofed feet; flat grinding teeth; a very long alimentary canal; a very large stomach, or several stomachs. The shape and movements of the human jaw ; the struc- ture and form of the human teeth ; the organization, length, and convolutions of the alimentary canal,—all clearly shew that man is intended to be omnivorous, or to live both on ve- getable and animal food; but though omnivorous, he is capa- ble of subsisting on animal food only, or on vegetables only;