OF THE METATARSUS. 293 face being extended longitudinally, and the inferior perpendi- cularly ; between which there is a rough fossa. The os metatarsi of the middle toe is the second in length. Its base, supported by the os cuneiforme externum, is tri- angular, but slanting outwards, where it ends in a sharp- pointed little process ; and the angle below is not completed. The internal side of this base is adapted to the preceding bone; and the external side has also two smooth surfaces co- vered with cartilage, but of a different figure ; for the upper one is concave, and, being round behind, turns smaller as it advances forwards. , The os metatarsi of' the fourth toe, is nearly as long as the former, with a triangular slanting base joined to the os cu- boides, and round at its external angle, having one hollow smooth surface on the outside: where it is pressed upon by the following bone, and two on the internal side, correspond- ing to the former bone; behind which is a long narrow sur- face impressed by the os cuneiforme externum. The os metatarsi of the little toe, is the shortest, situated with its two flat sides above and below, and with the ridges laterally. The base of it, part of which rests on the os cu- boides, is very large, tuberous, and produced into a long pointed process externally, where part of the abductor mini- mi digiti is fixed; and into its upper part the peronaeus se- cundus is inserted. Its inside has a flat conoidal surface, where it is contiguous to the preceding bone. In standing, the foot rests on the fore ends of these meta- tarsal bones, and the os calcis ; and therefore it is necessary they should be strong, and should not be very moveable. Of the Toes. The bones of the Toes are very similar to those of the thumb and fingers: But their position, in respect of the other toes, is not oblique ; and they are proportionally much stronger ; for they sustain the force with which our bodies are pushed forwards by the foot behind, at every step we make ; and the weight of the body is supported on these bones, when we stand on our tip-toes.