45 01' FCETAL BONES. rapidity in every part of the skeleton ; thus the ribs are con- verted into bone at a very early period, in order to prevent the action of the heart from being impeded by the pressure of the superincumbent parts. This fact is also clearly elucidated bv the time necessary for the re-union of the different bones : thus those of the superior extremities are more speedily re- united than those of the inferior; much, however, depends on the age, constitution, extent of the injury, and mode of treat- ment. In different bones there is a greater or less number of white spots or centres of ossification, as in those of the skull, from which the fibres diverge. In the long bones of a cylin- drical shape, there are central rings, from which the fibres ex- tend upwards and downwards. In cases of exostoses, the hew formed bone is sometimes distributed through the cartilage in an arborescent form. To far the greater number of bones, whose ends are not joined to other bones by an immoveable articulation, there are smaller ones annexed, which afterwards become scarce dis- tinguishable from the substance of the bone itself. These are o called Epiphyses, or Appendices *. Some bones have one, others have two, three or four of these appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, which are of a considerable thickness in children, but by age become thinner; the ossification pro- ceeding from the end of the bone on one side, and from the epiphyses on the other, till at last, in adults, the place of their conjunction can scarcely be seen on the external surface; and it is only sometimes that we can then see any mark of dis- tinction in the cancelli. Several processes ( e. g\ trochanters of the thigh, spine of the scapula, &c.) have epiphyses; and processes frequently rise out from epiphyses; for example at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, &c. The epiphyses are united chiefly to such bones as are destin- ed for frequent and violent motion ; and for this purpose they are of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to : thus the surface of contact between the two bones of any articular * Applantatio, additamentum, adnascentia, adnexum, peronc.