OF THF. OS OCCIPITIS. 147 fore is larger than the left one * *. Round the middle of the cross there are four large depressions separated by its limbs; the two upper ones being formed by the back-part of the brain, and the two lower ones by the cerebellum. Farther forward than the last-mentioned depressions, is the lower part of the fossa for the lateral sinus on each side. In the inner and concave surface of the cuneiform apophyse, lodges the medulla oblongata, and the basilar artery. A fur- row is made on each side, near the edges of this process, by a sinus of the dura mater, which empties itself into the lateral sinus -f*. There are five proper, and two holes common to this bone, and to the temporal bones. The first of the proper holes, caW^A foramen magnum, from its size, is immediately behind the wedge-like process, and allows a passage to the medulla oblongata, nervi accessorii, to the vertebral arteries, and some- times to the vertebral veins. At each side of this great hole near its fore-part, and immediately above the condyles, we always find a hole, sometimes two, which soon unite again into one that opens externally ; through these the ninth pair of nerves go out of the skull- The fourth and filth holes are placed behind, and give passage to veins of the neck which terminate in the lateral sinuses. Often one of these holes is wanting, sometimes both, when the veins pass through the great foramen- Besides these five, we frequently meet with other holes near the edges of this bone, for the transmis- sion of veins; but their number and diameter are very uncer- tain. The two common foramina are the large irregular holes, one in each side, between the sides of the cuneiform process, and the edges of the petrous bones. In a recent subject, a strong membrane runs cross from one side to the other of each of these holes; in some heads I have seen this membrane ossified, or a bony partition dividing each hole ; and, in the greater number of adult skulls, there is a small sharp-pointed • Morgagn. Advers. Anat. 6. Animad. i. * Albi>». dc Ossib. sett. 65. O K