114 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. of these is broken and beaten inwards, they may perforate the lungs, whereby the air within the lungs may escape by the aperture made in the pleura into the sac of the pleura of that side. The air may also escape into the subcutaneous cellular substance. The escape of the air from the lungs compresses these, impedes respiration, creates a sense of tightness across the chest, which is speedily followed by great oppression in the breathing, especially in the recumbent posture, by feebleness of pulse, which becomes very irregular, by coldness of the extremities, and (if relief be not speedily administered) by death. My Father had an opportunity of examining the bodies of some patients who had died from the above cause; and, on puncturing the chest, such a blast of air issued forth, as blew out a candle several times: on exposing the thorax fully, the lungs on the same side were found collapsed, and occupying the upper part of the chest: the diaphragm was forced downwards in an unnatural manner. When the air has got at the same time into the subcutane- ous cellular membrane, the skin is inflated, and raised up from the subjacent bones ; the patient looks like a stuffed person, whose bones had been taken out: when pressure is made, the air is forced from one part of the body to another, and a sensation such as pressing on a dried bladder would give, is communicated, and a crackling noise is at the instant per- ceptible. Mr B. Bell, in treating of this subject* has stated. “ Till of late, patients in this situation almost constantly died ; for when scarifications failed in discharging the air, and even this remedy has not been long in use, practitioners were not ac- quainted with any other mode of relief.” He adds, “ It (the operation of paracentesis of the thorax) has accordingly been frequently performed, and always with complete success.” “ This operation for the evacuation of air from the chest, was first proposed by Dr Monro about the year 1760, in his Lectures in this University.’1 • Vide his System of Surgery, voj. v, 6th Edit. pp. 233—1.