109 OF THE THORAX. the vertebra?. In the rickets, these spongy anterior ends of the ribs swell; hence the sternum appears to be more depres- sed than it really is. To the fore end of each rib, a long broad and strong carti- lage is fixed, and reaches thence to the sternum, or is joined to the cartilage of the next. rib. This course, however, is not in a straight line with the rib ; for generally the cartilages make a considerable curve, the concave part of which is up- wards; therefore, at their insertion into the sternum, they make an obtuse angle above, and an acute one below. These cartilages are of such a length, as never to allow the ribs to come to a right angle with the spine; but keep them situated so obliquely, as to make an angle very considerably obtuse above, till a force exceeding the elasticity of the car- tilages is applied. These cartilages, as all others, are firmer and harder internally, than they are on their external surface ; and sometimes, in old people, their middle substance becomes bony, while a thin cartilaginous lamella appears externally The ossification, however, begins frequently at the external surface. The greatest alternate motions of the cartilages be- ing made at their great curvature, that part remains frequently cartilaginous after all the rest is ossified -f\ The ribs are articulated at each end, of which the one be- hind is doubly joined to the vertebrae ; for the head is recei- ved into the cavities of two bodies of the vertebrae, and the larger tubercle is received into the depression in the trans- verse process of the lower vertebra. This double articulation admits of motion upwards and downwards only, since the transverse process hinders the rib to be thrust back; the re- sistance on the other side of the sternum prevents the rib coming forward ; and each of the two joints with the other parts attached oppose its turning round. It is likewise evi- dent, that even the motion upwards and downwards can be but small in any one rib at the articulation itself. But as the ribs advance forwards, the distance from their centre of mo- * "Ve3al. lib. 1. cap. 19. ■f Haters, Osteolog. nov. Disc. 5. p. 289.