121 OF THE SKULL. bones of" the skull, by Lord Byron. These bones his Lord- ship found “ in some ancient sepulchres within the long walls of Athens, in the month of February 1811 The forehead of the individual to whom the os frontis had belonged, must have been nearly as high, and nearly as pro- minent, as that of the celebrated statue of the Venus de Me- dicis, but is narrower between the external angular processes than in the statue. Dr Sturzheim observed to me, on looking at a cast of the statue of the Venus de Medicis, that the head was too small, and conveyed to his mind the representation of an ideot. But I am rather disposed to subscribe to the senti- ments of a very distinguished friend, who remarked to me. If Gall and Spurzheim were both to swear themselves black in the face, I will never believe the Venus de Medicis to be any thing but an enchanting being, with as much sense as any one would desire a pretty woman to be possessed of. I argue the physiognomy in opposition to the supposed evi- dence of the skull. There is a most striking difference in the position of the human head, and that of quadrupeds. The direction of the mouth, jaws, orbits and bones of the face, and position of the foramen magnum ossis occiptis, do not correspond ; and even among the inhabitants of different parts of the globe, there is a difference as to the placing of the great occipital foramen,—a circumstance which led Daubenton to take the position of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone as an index to the distinctions between the form of the skulls of the different na- tions of the globe, and also between the form of the human skull and that of the inferior animals, for which latter pur- pose it is much better calculated than for the former. The. head is fixed in such a manner to the atlas, and second vertebra of the neck, as combines considerable firmness and latitude of motion. • Copied from an inscription upon one side of a very elegant silver vase, which was presented by Lord Byron, together with the bones, to Sir Walter S*ott.