528 • ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. was reserved for any required experiment. In this way, Dr 1’itouT ascertained that the unsaturated muriatic acid in the stomach was always considerable ; and, in one case, twenty ounces of a fluid from a very deranged stomach, afforded him above half a drachm of muriatic acid, of specific gravity 1.160 * The gastric juice, particularly in young animals, has the property of coagulating milk. The coagulated milk thrown up by infants immediately after sucking, and the well-known use of the stomach of the calf in our dairies, sufficiently prove this fact. Dr Young found that the stomach retained this power af- ter being repeatedly washed, and that the infusion of a por- tion of the stomach employed as runnet, did not lose its co- agulating power though mixed with an alkali. Brugnatelli informs us, that the gastric juice of carni- vorous animals, as hawks, has a bitter taste and pungent smell; is not at all watery; and contains an uncombined acid, with a small quantity of the muriate of soda. On the other hand, Carminati informs us, that the gas- tric juice of sheep is watery, has a bitter taste, and contains ammonia, an animal extract, and a large proportion of the muriate of soda. From the above there is reason to conclude, that the gastric juice is adapted to the food of the animal, and therefore diffe- rent in the different classes of animals. There is likewise rea- son to suppose, that it is somewhat different in different indi- viduals, and in the same individual at different times. Most of the graminivorous quadrupeds, when young, are fed chiefly on milk, and some birds chiefly on animal sub- stances. A chick for the first few days is nourished by the yolk of the egg; and the pigeon feeds its young at a very early period writh a curd formed in its crop, mixed with grain, till they arrive at a certain age, when they are fed on grain alone; proving, more clearly than Spallanzani and Mr Hunter’s * Vide the Journal of Science, Literature, and the Arts, vol. xvii. p. 181.