ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 118 terior ends of the ribs, their Jarge arched middle parts turn outwards as well as upwards. The sternum, pressed strongly on both sides by the carti- lages of the ribs, is pushed forwards, and that at its several parts, in proportion to the length and motion of its support- ers, the ribs ; that is, most at its lower end. The sternum and the cartilages thus raised forwards, must draw the diaphragm connected to them ; consequently so far stretch it, and bring it nearer to a plane. The power that raises this bone and the cartilages, fixes them sufficiently to make them resist the action of the dia- phragm, the fibres of which contract at the same time, and thrust the viscera of the abdomen downwards. The arched part of the ribs being thus moved outwards, their anterior ends and the sternum being advanced forwards, and the diaphragm be- ing brought nearer to a plane surface, instead of being greatly convex on each side within each cavity of the thorax, it is evi- dent how considerably tbe cavity, of which the nine or ten upper ribs are the sides, must be widened, and made deeper and longer. The cartilages of the inferior ribs having no fixed point to which their anterior ends are fastened, and the diaphragm be- ing inserted into them at the place where it runs pretty straight upwards from its origin at the vertebra, these ribs are drawn downwards by this strong muscle, and by the muscles of the abdomen, which, -at this time, are resisting the stretching force of the bowels; while the intercostal muscles are pulling them upwards: The effect, therefore, of either of these powers, which are antagonists to each other, is very little, as to mov- ing the ribs either up or down; but the muscles of the abdo- men, pushed at this time outwards by the viscera, carry these ribs along with them. Thus the thorax is not only shortened, but also widened at its lower part. As soon as the action of these several muscles ceases, the reaction of the elastic cartilages draws the inferior ribs inwards at the same time. By these causes, the cavity of the breast is diminished in all its dimensions.