or THE MONGOLIAN CLASS. 2 IS resembles that of the Circassian girl, than any other skull I have seen. The cranial part is very large in proportion to the bones of the face; the bones of the face are not remark- ably prominent, and the cheek-bones very much resemble those of some of our country. The skull found at Winter Island, and an Eskimaux skull in the Museum of Natural History, are very similar to each other. When viewed in front, the size of the cheek-bones is very remarkable, so that the distance across the cheek- bones is equal to nearly 5 inches ; but the superior maxillary bones are neither very large nor prominent. The forehead gradually becomes narrower, and, when viewed in front, it resembles a triangle, the basis of which is over the orbits. The parietal bones also become narrower gradually as they approach the sagittal suture. The temporal muscles take their rise very high on the parietal bones, and remarkably so in one of the specimens ; hence at the top of the head, the distance between the origins of the opposite temporal muscles is equal to 2J inches. The squamous suture is not arched as in the European, but is much flatter. The orbits are large, but the nasal cavity is rather small. The teeth are generally large, but not long: in some in- stances, those of the under jaw are smaller than in the Euro- pean, and are not fixed into the skull like those of the Negro ; whereas in one of the skulls found near to Repulse Bay, the teeth are small and much worn down. The skull obtained at Igluliclc, is a sort of medium between those found near to Re- pulse Bay and Winter Island. It is like to that of the Mon- gol class. The cranial part is large in proportion to the bones of the face; forehead narrow, and rather flat; but the skull is broad between the parietal and temporal bones, and rather flat at the lower part of the occipital bone. The super- ciliary ridges are prominent, and overhang the orbits more than usual; the bones of the nose are broad at their connection with the frontal bone; the cheek-bones are broad; zygomatic Arches high ; nasal cavity large; and, in this individual, the