536 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. as when a hernial tumour has attained so great a bulk, as to hang down beyond the knees, and contains the greater part of the bowels of the abdomen. By repeated observation, it has been discovered, that every part of the intestinal tube is not equally necessary to life; and also, that the smaller intestines constitute the most important part of it. Life has been often prolonged for months, though the contents of the larger intestines have been discharged at the groin, through an unnatural opening ; and it has also been found, that the chance of recovering is the greater, the nearer the opening is to the anus; and, on the other hand, when it becomes necessary, in consequence of the constriction of some part of the gullet, to endeavour to support the corporeal strength by nutritious glysters, that these are of little avail beyond a few weeks. Of the Ilio-Colic Valve. This valve, which is of different construction in different animals, and more or less perfect as a valve, is placed at the conjunction of the smaller with the larger intestines; and where the ileum opens into the left and posterior side of the caput caecum coli, forming an acute angle with the colon. The muscular, cellular, and villous coats, enter into the composition of the valve, which is composed of two folds of the internal and cellular coats of unequal length, placed trans- versely, which project for about three-quarters of an inch into the cavity of the caput caecum coli; and each fold is com- posed of small internal laminae. The length and breadth of the folds are various; as also the size of the interposed aperture. Sometimes the lower fold is long and broad, and the upper one short and narrow. Upon making a longitudinal section of the termination of the ileum in the caput caecum coli, the lips of the valve are seen projecting into the caput eoecum coli. II a liquor be thrown into the smaller intestine, the lips of the valve are se- parated from each other, the aperture of the valve becomes larger, and the greater the quantity of liquor thrown into it,