OF THE OS HYOIDES. 297 rises upwards and backwards, into which the Musculi Styb- hyoidei tUteri, and part of the Hyo-glossi muscles are fixed. From each of them a-ligament is sometimes extended to the Styloid process of the temporal bones, to keep the os hyoides from being drawn too much forwards or downwards. The ligaments connecting the os hyoides, and ascending cornua of the thyroid cartilage are sometimes, in persons of advanced life, converted into bone. The substance of the os hyoides is cellular, but covered by a firm external plate. It is not articulated with any bone of the body, except by means of the muscles and ligaments men- tioned. The os hyoides serves as a lever upon which the muscles act in raising or depressing the tongue and Larynx, or in enlar- ging and diminishing the capacity of the fauces. At birth, this bone is in a cartilaginous state ; excepting a small point of bone in the middle of its body, and each of the Cornua. The Appendices frequently remain cartilaginous for many years. The following observations, by the late Mr A. Burns, on the relative situation of the os hyoides, in respect to the other parts of the neck, merit attention. 44 In the living person, in whom no part about the throat is called into action, and in whom the base of the skull is placed parallel to the horizon, the os hyoides can be felt through the integuments, situated about four finger-breadths behind the chin, and about a quarter of an inch lower in the throat than the margin of the jaw-bone. The upper promi- nent edge of the thyroid cartilage is traced, beginning about half an inch below the base of the hyoid bone, and is found, by following it with the finger, gradually sloping backward, and declining from the perpendicular as it descends. Be- tween the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage, there is, on the fore-part of the throat, a little hollow or vacuity, but laterally no deficiency can be perceived. Just below the thyroid car- tilage, a similar but smaller hollow is felt. About three or four lines lower than the inferior edge of the thyroid carti- lage, the cricoid cartilage is discovered, forming a prominent