320 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. an oily matter for the purpose of lubricating,—I cannot see good grounds for doubting that the oil exudes from its folli- cles through invisible passages into the cavities of the abdo- men, joints, and bursae. We next proceed to examine the nature of the fringes or fimbriae, which we observe common to the fatty bodies of the joints and bursae. These have been very generally supposed to be the ducts of glands lodged within, and protected by the masses of fat *. Yet, notwithstanding the appearance of ac- curacy in the description given of these glands, and the pro- bability that these fringes are derived from some such origin, and that such bulky masses of fat as are found in the knee and in the bursa immediately under it, seem, at first sight, to be otherwise useless, I have not been able to discover the smallest vestige of any knotty, granulous, or glandular body lodged within these fatty masses in the joints of man or other animals. Nay, although we observe so many bloodvessels dispersed jjpon the membranes of these fatty bodies and up- on the fimbriae, and though we cannot doubt that these fimbriae consist of ducts which contain a lubricating liquor, and though, in fact, when we press upon them we are sensible that it is- sues from them ; yet their cavities and orifices are so minute, that I have not yet been able to get a distinct view of them, though I employed magnifying glasses. * Havers. Ost. Nov. 1691. p. 191. Glandulae mucilaginosae are red, pappy, &c. Cowper, Expl. of Bioloo, Tab. 79. E. E. Mucilaginous glands of the knee. The ducts of these glands form a fringe, &c. Morgagni, Adv. ii. Illud de structura earundum conglomeratarum ex Cowperi anatomia poteris, addere, &c. Winslow, Exp, An. 1732. sect. ii. 68. Glandes mucilagineuses sont grenues, &c. en forme de grains—184. Sont entrelardee d’une matiere graisseuse 186. On distingue facilement la substance glanduleuse d’avec l’adi- peuse, &c. J. Weitbrecht, in Syndesmolog. calls these masses Adiposo- glatidulosas. Cheselden, 1740, p. 48. These glands are seated in fat.—;— Haller, El. Phys. t. ii. p. 366. Ex pinguibus globis, quae in articulationi- bus pariter ut glandula:, reperiuntur. Plenck, Pr. Lin. Anat. 1775, p. 97. Glandulae aiticulares. Sunt parvae glandula:, &c. p. 309. Glandula: synoviales, ^-c. LeBkr, Pr. Anat. 1778. p. 112. Constat synovia e mucilaginoso li- quore glandularum articularium. Sabatier, Tr. d’Anat. 1780, t. i.p. 9. Les glandes synoviales sont logees au milieu de masses graisscuses et rougeatres, &.cj —Leurs canaux excreteurs representent des especes de franges, £c.