46 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tion being increased, their conjunction becomes firmer, and the muscles inserted into them act with greater force, by rea- son of their axes being further removed from the centre of motion. By means of epiphyses, the body is rendered more flexible, and the body of the child is better adapted to the form of the mother’s womb, and the ossification is sooner com- pleted. Of the Formation of Bone. The most important circumstances respecting the formation of bone may be comprehended under the following heads. 1<?£, What is the nidus in and upon which bone is deposit- ed ? and what change is produced in that nidus after bony matter has been deposited ? 2d, Is bony matter contained in the blood ; and whether is this deposited in a solid state, or held in solution ? 3d, What happens just before, and while the process is going on ? 4th, Whether is bone derived from the vessels of the peri- osteum, or from those proper to the substance of the bones ? 5th, At what time does the ossification of the different bones of the foetus take place ? 6th, Are there any causes which accelerate or retard the process of ossification ? The older anatomists in order to detect the earlier stages of the process of ossification, and the manner in which ossifica- tion is carried on, examined with great care young foetuses; but on account of the extreme similarity in the colour of the membranes and gristles, and the bony particles, it is impossible to discriminate the one of these substances from another. Much more accurate information may be obtained, by exam- ining the mode in which fractured bones are united, or by feed- ing an animal with madder, which communicates, from the elec- tive attraction between the colouring part of it and the phos- phate of lime, a reddish tinge to the bone, and hence the smal- lest particle of bone becomes visible as soon as it is formed. According to Dr Boerhaave, when ossification is about to take place, the lymph of the blood is effused, which lymph lias a determined shape, and is covered by a membrane.