152 elements of anatomy. Os Sphenoides. The Os Sphenoides, or wedge-like bone, so called, be- cause of its situation in the middle of the bones of the crani- um and face. There are two or three remarkable processes from each side of this bone. First, the two large lateral processes or wings ; the upper part of each of which is called the temporal pro- cess', because they join with the temporal bones in forming the temples, and the seat of a share of the temporal muscles. That part of the wings which juls out towards the inside, somewhat lower than the temporal apophyses, and is smooth and hollowed, where it makes up part of the orbit, is thence named orbitar process. Behind the edge, separating these two processes, there is often a small groove, made by a branch of the superior maxillary nerve, in its passage to the temporal muscle. The lowest and back-part of each wing, which runs out sharp to meet the ossa petrosa, has been styled the spi- nous process : From near the point of which a sharp-pointed process is frequently produced downwards, which some call styliform, and affords origin to the ptery-staphylinus externus muscle. From this styloid process a very small groove is ex- tended along the edge of the bone to the hollow at the root of the internal plate of the following process, which forms part of the Eustachian tube *. The second pair of external processes of the cuneiform bone, is the two which stand out almost per- pendicular to the base of the skull. Each of them has two plates, and a middle fossa facing backwards, and should, to carry on our comparison, be likened to the bat’s legs, but are commonly said to resemble the wings of that creature; and, therefore, are named pterygoid or aliform -}• processes. The external plates are broadest, and the internal are longest. From each side of the external plates the pterygoid muscles take their rise. At the root of each internal plate, a small • Winslow, Exposition Anatomique du corps humain, Traite des os secs, § 233. -f- Naviculares.