ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY". 356 its extremity is connected. When a hollow muscle contracts, k diminishes its cavity in all directions. The muscles which have the greatest share of mobility are least capable of per- manent contraction, as those of the voice or tongue; thus we experience fatigue, by pressing the tongue for some time against the palate. The muscular fibre varies its operation, according to the purpose to be served; for instance, when a muscular fibre is punctured, it vibrates, which is the fittest means of throw- ing off the offending cause : the alimentary canal, acted on gently by the food, performs a very complex peristaltic mo- tion and anti-peristaltic motion ; the abdominal muscles act slowly and steadily in expelling the contents of the rectum, but suddenly and convulsively in vomiting; the bladder of urine, from which there is a small outlet only, performs a slow and uniform contraction in discharging its contents ; whilst the heart contracts with a jerk, and is drawn towards the more fixed point. A permanent and unusual degree of contraction in a muscle is called .spasm ; and, when the con- tractions are quickly repeated, it is called convulsion. Muscles, Voluntary, Involuntary, Mixed. There are some muscles which are under the direct influ- ence of the will ; these have been called voluntary muscles. Such are the muscles of locomotion. But there are other muscles, over which the will has no dominion: these, there- fore, have been called involuntary muscles. We neither pos- sess the power of throwing those muscles into action, nor can. we prevent them from acting. The heart, arteries, and intestines, afford examples of this description; and it is remarkable, that such muscles are not fatigued by continued action. But this is an arbitrary divi- sion: for all the muscles are occasionally strictly involuntary, as the mind is not conscious of their being thrown into action ; and the same observation applies to disease, as in chorea, tris- mus, opisthotonos (when the body is bent backwards), and emprosthotonos (when it is bent forwards).