487 OF THE TEETH. but without roots; which capsule is attached, by means of its nerves and bloodvessels, to the bottom of the alveolar pro- cesses ; and its upper part is attached to the inner side of the gums. The pulp becomes gradually firmer and larger, so that at length it acquires the shape and size of the tooth about to be formed upon it. The Ossification begins about the sixth month after con- ception, upon the pulps, in the form of spots; the situation of which corresponds w7ith the grinding surfaces of the mo- lares and cutting edges of the incisores. The number of these ossifications coiTesponds with the eminences on the pulp; these gradually increase, and form a thin shell (f hone, which co- vers the surface of the tooth. In the incisor teeth, there are generally three points of ossification; in the canine only one point; and in the molares four or five points of ossification; and these increase, in some, until their bases are united. The ossification in the basis takes place in a lamellated man- ner, and from without inwards. The bony shells which form the teeth are a little contracted at the collar of the tooth; and in proportion as the bony part of the tooth becomes thick- er, the pulp diminishes in some. The sides of the alveolar processes gradually become higher as the root of the tooth grows, and continue in contact with the neck of the tooth. At the period of birth, the outer shells of five teeth are found on each side of each jaw, or of twenty teeth. The bo- dies of the teeth are first converted into bone; and the ossifi- cation goes on by a successive deposition from without in- wards ; the layer pext the enamel being first formed, and the other layers being added within it. When the ossification of the body of the tooth has been completed, the pulp is com- pressed ; for it has no process originally corresponding with the roots. The roots are then added to the teeth, and are formed upon the pulp, which is elongated, in consequence of the pressure made upon it by the progress of the body of the tooth. When there are two or more roots, the osseous fibres extend across the under part of the bodies of the teeth, and leave vacant spaces, through which the processes of the pulp are protruded, and upon which the roots arc formed. By the