OF T1IE EXTREMITIES. 235 2d, When the legs and arms are moderately extended, the ossa pubis are about the centre of the body, or the ossa pubis form the centre of a circle, the circumference of which touches the extremities of the fingers and toes. 3d, The distances between the top of the shoulder and sym- physis pubis, from the symphysis pubis to the top of the knee, and from thence to the inner ancle, should be equal in a well proportioned man. In a former chapter, the peculiarities of the human pelvis have been described, to which those of the inferior extremities have an immediate relation. I made no mention of the pelvis of the quadruped, being persuaded that man only can be said to have a pelvis, for even in the monkey tribe, the os sacrum is not curved as in man, and is not calculated to give support to the bowels included within the pelvis, the ossa innominata are small and elon- gated, and do not form, as in man, a large basin-like cavity. There is a general resemblance between the bones of the upper and under extremities, as to the number, position and relation of their several bones, and in the construction and di- rections of their articulations. The differences in the bones of the extremities concur in' proving man to be biped. This is obvious from the dispro- portion in the respective lengths of the superior and inferior extremities : the lower extremities by their size are evidently intended as pillars of support, whereas the upper extremities are admirable organs of apprehension; and are fixed to the sides of the trunk, that they might be more useful as organs of apprehension. Man alone, as Aristotle has most justly observed, can be said to have hands, which, on account of their admirable con- struction, he called the Organ of organs. The lower limbs of a monkey are, comparatively to his body, shorter and weaker, and the upper limbs are proportionally much longer, and in the gibbon touch the ground, when the animal is erect. The hands and feet are proportionally longer, and also narrower, that the animals may be better enabled to lay hold of the brandies of trees.