30 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. bones; that the composition of the sequestra is much the same as that of sound bones; and it further appears from these re- sults, that the hardness of bones in general is not always pro- portional to the quantity of earth present, though in the same skeleton this probably is the case; and, lastly, the concord- ance of composition of two Negro skulls, both remarkably hard and white, renders it probable that the bones of Africans will be found to contain a larger proportion of animal matter than the bones of Europeans. “ Respecting the bones placed in the table after the Ne- groes, it is necessary to observe, that they were examined but a day or two after they were taken from the subject to which they belonged, and had not been cleaned, as bones usually are that are designed to be preserved. There was conse- quently no deficiency of the animal Jluid peculiar to them. This circumstance accounts for the much smaller proportion of earth in these than in the preceding sound bones. The bones of the lower extremity appeared to be saturated with this fluid; those of the head seemed almost entirely free from it; hence, too, the much smaller proportion of earth in the former than in the latter. “ It is worthy of remark, that the fibrous part of the ver- tebra, in the last table, was very flexible, notwithstanding the considerable proportion of phosphate of lime present. It may be proper, also, to notice, that the enamel of the tooth of the mammoth was of singular hardness, sufficiently hard, indeed, to scratch glass; and yet, when deprived of its animal mat- ter, of its cement, by calcination, it was more friable than any of the other bones. I endeavoured to ascertain if this ena- mel contained fluoric acid, but I could not detect its pre- sence. “ To conclude, if the preceding results do not allow any very satisfactory general conclusion to be formed from them, they at least seem to shew, that inferences were, in former cases, too hastily drawn, and that further investigation of the subject is necessary.” It may not be improper to mention, that bones and shells bear a strong resemblance to each other, as to their chemical in-