OF TIIE GASTRIC JUICE. 527 On examining with great attention the internal surface of the stomach, it is found to be very largely supplied with bloodves- sels; but whether the gastric j uice be secreted by the arteries, or by glands, has not yet been ascertained. This latter opinion is rendered probable, by observing that in some birds a num- ber of glands are placed at the lower orifice of the gullet; and in others, as in the ostrich, glands of a large size are placed between the coats of the stomach, the ducts of which are large. We are not yet fully acquainted with the nature of the gastric juice. When obtained from animals that have been kept fasting for some time before being killed, it is nearly transparent, and has somewhat of a saline bitterish taste. Dr Steven’s experiments with hollow perforated silver balls have pointed out, that there is a considerable distinc- tion between the gastric juice of a carnivorous and gramini- vorous animal. He gave to oxen and sheep such balls filled with animal substances: these substances were not dissolved; but when the balls were filled with grass, it was consumed. From the experiments which Mauquart and Vauquelin made on the gastric juice of sheep, it appears that sometimes the uncombined phosphoric acid is present; and from the ex- periments of Spallanzani, it seems to partake neither of an acid nor of an alkaline nature, for it contains neither acid nor alkali in an uncombined state. By the action of acids, albumen is discovered in it. According to the latest experiments of Dr Prout, of which he gave an account to the Royal Society of London, the con- tents of the stomach during digestion always contain the free muriatic acul. The contents of a stomach having been di- gested in distilled water, the solution obtained was divided into four equal parts. One of these, evaporated to dryness, burnt, and examined in the usual way, gave the quantity of muriatic acid in combination with fixed bases. A second, be- ing previously saturated with an alkali, was treated in a simi- lar way, and gave the whole quantity of muriatic acid in the stomach. A third, carefully neutralized with a known solu- tion of alkali, gave the quantity of free acid. The fourth