186 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. may receive a peculiar, and what may perhaps be called na- tional character, from some peculiar artificial method of ap- plying the pressure *. Hippocrates*}* goes further, and seems to be of opinion, that an artificial form of the head, the result of the above sin- gular custom practised for several generations, has at length become hereditary, and constitutes the national peculiarity. Vesalius imputed the round form of the Turk’s head to the influence of the pressure of the turban. The skull of the Carib strongly demonstrates the influence of external pressure. In the museum bequeathed by my Father to the Univer- sity, there is an excellent specimen of the skull of a Carib from St Vincent's, and I have two casts of skulls of that nation. In all of these, the forehead is very flat: in one of the casts there is a distinct indentation about the size of a crownpiece, which is more concave than any other part of the forehead, and in the other cast, the depression on the forehead resembles a horse’s shoe, the concavity of which looks towards the orbits. There is a remarkable rising in the skull, immediately be- yond the depressed portion. The sides of the skull are very flat, and the temporal fossa: are very large. The base of that portion of the skull formed by the os occipitis is very flat, and the rest of the base is much distorted. The upper jaw is prominent, but not so much so as in the Negro skull, nor is it so broad. The bones of the nose are short, and the • Herodotus. Vid. Adair’s Hist, of the American Indians.—Condamine, Mem. de l’Acad. des Sciences de Paris, 1745. + Hippocrates states his opinon, that the remarkable form of the heads of the Macrocephali is the effect of pressure; and observes, “ Quum recens infans natus est, caput ejus, adhuc tenerum ac molle esistens, quam celerrime con- stringunt manibus, coaptantesque cogunt in longitudinem augeri; quin et vincu- lis connectunt, ac aptis instrumentis colligant, quo rotunditas capitis prohibea- tur, ac longitudo augeatur.” He has added, “ Temporis vero progressu, natura quoque tales produxit, ut non csset necessc consuetudine priore cogere—DeAere, Aqua, et Locis. Edit; Vanderlinden.