176 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. is so closely united to the vomer by the little processes piercing into its substance, as to prevent any separation; on which account it has been esteemed by some * a part of the ethmoid bone. The middle cartilage of the nose fills up what remains of the fossa at its fore part. The posterior edge of the vomer, which appears above the back part of the palate-bones, is broader above ; but as it descends forwards, becomes thinner, though it is still solid and firm. The lower edge of this bone, which rests on the nasal spine of the palate and maxillary bones, has a little fur- row on each side of a small middle ridge, answering to the spines of the bones of different sides, and the interstice be- tween them. This edge, and the upper one, meet in the pointed fore end of this bone. The body of the vomer has a smooth surface, and solid, but thin substance ; and towards its sides, where it is thickest, some cancelli may be observed, when the bone is broken. It is joined above to the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, and to the middle cartilage of the nose, by schindylesis ; below, to the maxillary and palate bones, by the spinous suture. The vomer divides the nostrils, enlarges die organ of smell, and sustains the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, which otherwise might be in hazard of being pressed into the nostrils; while the vomer is secured from shuffling to one side or other by the double schindylesis, by which it is joined to the bones above and below. Lower Jazv. The Maxilla Inferior, the lower jaw, is very various as to its space and thickness in different individuals, and in diffe- rent nations. It is somewhat of the figure of the Greek let- ter v; and situated at the lower part of the face, with its con- vex middle part forwards, and its legs stretched back. It is commonly divided into the chin, sides, and processes. • Vesalios, Santorini, Petit in his edition of Palfyn’s Anatomy ; and also Lieutaud, have described this bone as a part of the ethmoid bone; and' Vidus Vidius, as a part of the sphenoid bone*