492 elements of anatomy. In consequence of the above changes, the second set comes forwards, and replaces the first; but they are contained in their original sockets. The first set generally begin to fall out when the child is about six or seven years old. The anterior molares of the second set generally appear first; then the larger incisors of the lower jaw ; in a month or two, the larger incisors of the upper jaw ; then the molares of the chila become loose, to make way for the smaller molares of the second set: the canine generally follow some time af- ter ; and, last of all, the larger molares. The shedding of the first set is generally not completed in less than six years; and, in some instances, some of the first set of teeth remain in the jaws during the greater part of life. Of the Formation of the Second Set of Teeth. The second set, like the first, is formed upon pulps, and these pulps are parts or elongations of the pulps of the first set, which are sent out as soon as the rudiments of the first have made some progress. The pulps of the second set of teeth are originally within the same socket, and adhere to the capsules of the first set; and these capsules are so intimately connected, that it is impossible to separate the one from the other, without lacerating one or both. By degrees little niches are formed in the internal al- veolar plate, which gradually form a distinct socket around these sacs for the second set of teeth. Dr Blake, who, I believe, discovered the connexion be- tween the sacs of the first and second sets, has very fully ex- plained the above mentioned facts in the following passage. “ As the sacs of the permanent teeth advance, the sockets of the temporary ones become enlarged, and little niches are formed in the internal plate of the alveolar processes, answer- ing to each socket, which are situated rather laterally; that is to say, at a greater distance from the symphysis, or centre of the jaw, than the centre of each respective temporary socket. “ These niches do not penetrate so deep as to the bottom