OF THE NEW ZEALANDER’S SKULL. 227 ing no knowledge of agriculture ; as being quite naked, and having1 no fixed abode *. I have had an opportunity of examining three skulls from Van Dieman’s Land, all of which were very similar to each other, and to those of the natives of New Holland, but ra- ther of a smaller size. Vide Table II. Nos. 18, 19. The bone is white, of a close texture, hard, and conse- quently heavy, and the skull is thicker than that of the European. The frontal sinuses are not so conspicuous; nor are the upper and under jaws so large as in the natives of New Hol- land. The grinding teeth are of a most extraordinary size, and considerably broader than those of the Cafire, Esquimaux, or natives of New South Wales, and were in the three skulls considerably worn down. The sockets of the incisor teeth are quite entire, so that the same custom of knocking out one or both of these teeth does not prevail in Van Dieman’s Land. The sockets of the eyes are rather small, but the cavity for the nose is larger than in the natives of New Holland; and is equal to that of the Carib. The ossa turbinata inferiora are large and prominent, and remarkably unequal on their surfaces. The foramina at the base of the skull for the nerves and bloodvessels are larger than in the European. The canibals of New Zealand are included also in this great class. “ Captain Cruise has observed -J-, that the most striking in appearance was Jetoro, a man one would imagine in his 45th year. He was 6 feet 2 inches high, and was per- fectly handsome both as to features and figure, though very much tatooed. The benignity and even beauty of his coun- tenance were not destroyed by this frightful operation.” The other seven were very young men, all more or less ta- tooed, according to their ages, and varying in height from 5 feet 8 to 5 feet 10 inches. In colour, they were little darker than Spaniards, strong, active, and well limbed, and their hair straight, with the exception of Jcloro’s, which was curly. Captain Cruise has remarked*, that when the men use vio- • Voy. <lu Uecouv. de Terres Austral, tom. i. chap. 30. ■f Vide his Journal of his residence in New Zealand. London 1823. + Journal in New Zealand. p %