OF BILIARY CALCULI. 587 of ash. I may here mention the experiments that were made, to ascertain the composition of this ash. It was first digested in water; the water immediately reddened turmeric paper, but after a few hours it lost this property, and was covered with a slight white crust; and hence we may infer the pre- sence of lime. On the addition of a drop of nitric acid, nu- merous small air-bubbles were disengaged ; and, with the ex- ception of a few reddish particles, a speedy solution took place. This solution was tried by different tests ; by nitrate of silver it was rendered slightly cloudy ; and by ammonia in excess, a pretty copious precipitate was produced, which ap- peared to be increased rather than diminished, by oxalic acid ; and the filtered solution, after the addition of the oxalic-acid, was not affected by the volatile alkali. Muriatic-acid partially dissolved the reddish particles, and prussiate of potash ren- dered this solution of a light-green colour. From these re- sults, it appears, that the ash consists chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and of a little iron. 6 grains of the concretion in the state of powder, were ex- posed for three hours on a steam-bath, to a temperature of about 12CT Fahrenheit, and the loss thus sustained, amount- ing to ยง grain, was probably nearly water. Two grains of the powder were digested in four ounces of water on the sand-bath. The solution formed, after two or three hours, had the peculiar taste of bile, and the musk-like odour in a slight degree; and it was of a light-yellow colour. The digestion was repeated with an additional quantity of water for many hours, but nothing more was abstracted. The undissolved matter, dried on the steam-bath, weighed 1.3 grains, and it was now much darker than originally. The same residual matter was next digested in half an ounce of alcohol, to which it soon imparted a yellow colour ; but af- ter a second digestion with an equal quantity, very little was found dissolved, scarcely the one-tenth of a grain. From the preceding experiments, it appears, that the calcu- lus is chiefly composed of inspissated bile, of a brown matter,