OF THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. &05 figure, and situated between the inner surface of the angle of the jaw, and the mylo-hyoid and digastric muscle. This o-land is sometimes continued near to the angle of the jaw ; and is sometimes connected with the lower end of the parotid. This gland also joins the sublingual behind the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The duct of this gland, which arises from its upper and fore part, is large, has thin coats, and passes between the mylo-hyoideus and genioglossus muscles, along the under and inner edge of the sublingual gland, and perforates the membrane of the mouth, at the side of the frasnum linguae; and is accompanied by the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. J The ducts of the salivary glands have sometimes been di- vided by a cut with a sword, or destroyed by ulceration : the saliva is then constantly discharged, occasioning a salivary fistula. In consequence of obstruction by salivary concre- tions, the duct of the sublingual gland is sometimes so much extended as to form a tumour called Ranula; which presses the tongue upwards to the roof of the mouth, creating indis- tinct articulation, and gives the voice a croaking sound, like that of a frog. When the ranula attains a very large size, it impedes man- ducation and deglutition, and sometimes displaces the teeth. When the tumour increases suddenly, the tongue may be for- ced so far back as to prevent inspiration *. The ranula sometimes bursts, and discharges a fluid like the white of an egg. The disease cannot be cured, until the cause of the obstruction be removed, by cutting into the tu- mour. Scirrhus of the salivary glands is by no means of rare oc- currence ; and but rarely leads to cancer. • A case occurred to Mr Cline, in which a ranula increased so rapidly in bulk in the course of a few minutes, as to force the tongue backwards: this so completely prevented the breathing, that it would have occasioned the patient’s death, had not Mr Cline afforded relief by instantly thrusting his lancet into the swelling, and discharging the contents of the tumour.