OF THE OSSA PALATI. 171 vided into four parts; the palate square-bone ; the pterygoid process; nasal lamella, and orbitar process. The square bone is unequally concave ; thus more space is <riven for the mouth and cavity of the nose. The upper part of its internal edge rises into a spine, after the same manner as the palate-plate of the maxillary bone does, to be joined with the vomer. Its anterior edge is unequally ragged, for its firmer connec- tion with the palate process of the os maxillare. The inter- nal edge is thicker than the rest, and of an unequal surface, for its conjunction with its fellow of the other side. The pos- terior and thicker extremity of this bone, describes a figure like a crescent, with which the velum pendulum palati is firm- ly connected ; the internal point being produced backwards, to afford origin to the azygos uvulae muscle. The square bone is separated from the pterygoid process by a perpendicular fossa, which, applied to such another in the maxillary bone, forms a passage for the palatine branch of the fifth pair of nerves ; and by another small hole behind this, through which a twig of the same nerve passes. The pterygoid process is somewhat triangular, having a broad base and a narrow upper end. There are three fossae on the back part of this process ; the two lateral receive the ends of the temporal processes of the sphenoid bone ; the mid- dle fossa makes up part of what is commonly called the fossa pterygoidea ; the fore-side of this palatine pterygoid process is an irregular concave, and to it the back part of the great tu- ljerosity of the maxillary bone is connected. Frequently se- veral small holes may be observed in this triangular process, particularly one near the middle of its base, which a little alx>ve communicates with the common and proper holes of this bone. The nasal lamella of this bone is extremely thin and brit- tle, and rises upwards from the upper side of the external edge of the gquare-bone, and from the narrow extremity of the pterygoid process; where it is so weak, and, at the same time, so firmly fixed to the maxillary bone, as to be very lia- ble to be broken, in separating the bones. From the part 2