150 elements or anatomy. mella, a thin solid plate is extended downwards and forwards, having the same common base with the crista galli. Gene- rally it is not exactly perpendicular, but is inclined to one side or other, and therefore divides the cavity of the nose unequal- ly. Its inclination to one side, and flexure in the middle, is sometimes so great, that it fills up a large share of one of the nostrils, and has been mistaken for a polypus there. It is thin at its rise, and rather thinner in its middle; but to- wards its lower edge becomes thicker, that its conjunc- tion with the bones and middle cartilage of the nose might be firmer. At a little distance from each side of this external process, a cellular and spongy bony substance de- pends from the cribriform plate. The number and figure of the cells, the uppermost of which are in form like a funnel, and communicate with each other, and with the cavity of the nose, are very uncertain. The bone over these cells is smooth ; hence these portions of it have been called ossa plana; on the upper edge of which, a small notch or two may sometimes be observed, which assist in the formation of the internal orbitar holes. Jlelow the cells of each side, a thin plate is extended inwards, and then bending down it becomes thick and of a spongy texture. This spongy part is triangular, with a straight up- per edge placed horizontally, an anterior one slanting from above, downwards and forwards, and with a pendulous con- vex one below. The upper and lower edges terminate in a sharp point behind. The side of this pendulous spongy part next to the septum narium is convex, and its external side is concave. These two processes of the ethmoid bone, from their substance, figure, and situation, have been called ossa turbi- nata superiora. The prominences, and cavities of this ethmoid bone, are covered by a continuation of the membrane of the nostrils, in a recent subject. The horizontal cribriform plate is lodged between the or- bitar processes of the frontal bone, to which it is joined at the ethmoid suture, except at the back part, where it is connected