OF THE LIVER. 569 The nerves of the liver are small in proportion to the bulk of that gland. They pass along the coats of the vena portae and hepatic artery, and may be traced, by a careful dissection, for a considerable way th rough the substance of the liver. The liver, in its sound state, is not an organ of much sen- sibility. I have endeavoured to ascertain the degree of sen- sibility of this organ in a healthy living animal, by the appli- cation of stimuli to different parts of the convex surface ; but the animal did not seem to suffer pain, even when one of the lobes was removed. Of the Lymphatic vessels of the Liver. The liver is very largely supplied with lymphatic vessels. There are two sets of these, a superficial, and deeper seated set, which freely communicate with each other. The superficial set is disposed somewhat like the branches of a tree ; the lar- ger branches are next to the diaphragm. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the liver are more fre- quently seen than those of any other part of the human body, and they may be very readily filled with quicksilver, for their valves do not perform their office accurately. The mercury flows in a direction contrary to the valves, or from the larger into the smaller branches. There is a free communication be- tween the superficial and deeper seated lymphatic vessels of the liver ; so that, by injecting any large trunk, the greater number of the vessels may be filled. The lymphatic vessels of the convex surface of the liver perforate the diaphragm, accompany the internal mammary artery, and pour their contents into the thoracic duct, near to its termination, at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. I have frequently seen a number of lymphatic vessels of considerable size, arising from the concave surface of the right lobe of the liver, near to the fundus of the gall-bladder; these vessels passed along with the ductus communis choledochus, and entered the thoracic duct opposite to the origin of the •coeliac artery.