INTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 341 there is a strong transverse ligament, which fixes the head of the tibia to that of the fibula. Of the Internal Ligaments of the Knee-Joint. The capsular ligament is reflected, and forms the lateral ligaments, called alaria externa, and interna, by which the synovial apparatus is fixed to the sides of the patella; and this apparatus is also fixed by a ligamentum mucosum, which is continued from the union of the ligamenta alaria, to the ca- vity of the thigh-bone between its condyles, and immediate- ly in front of the anterior crucial ligament. There are two internal ligaments which cross each other, hence named:}crucial. The one is fixed to the semilunar shaped notch, between the condyles of the thigh-bones, and to the pit at the fore-part of the protuberance in the middle of the head of the tibia; and the other, which is fixed in a si- milar manner to the thigh-bone, passes behind the former, and is fixed into a pit behind the above named protuberance. The crucial ligaments are relaxed when the knee is bent, but when the joint is extended they are stretched ; and they admit of the thigh-bone and tibia to be brought only into a straight line with each other. The head of the tibia is divided by a protuberance of bone, into two parts, each of which is somewhat excavated : each cavity is rendered deeper by a cartilage, somewhat of the form of a crescent, which surrounds that cavity; which cartilage, towards the middle of the bone, is as thin as the blade of a knife; but in its outer circumference, three or four lines in the thickness ; and the thicker parts of these cartilages being con- nected to the capsular ligaments, scarcely change their places. The upper surface of these cartilages is concave, the lower nearly flat. These cartilages are connected to each other at their inner cornua, by a small transverse ligament. Ligaments of the Patella. The patella is fixed in its place, by the tendon of the ex- tensor muscles of the leg, which is fixed into it, and by a strong ligament, which passes between the under part of the knee-pan, and the anterior tuberosity of the tibia.