504. elements of ANATOMY. red. In the foetus it is much redder, and divided into a num- ber of small parts, which have a soft and delicate texture. It is in colour and consistence like the parotid. This is a gland of the conglomerate kind, consisting of a number of distinct lobes, detached from each other, and uni- ted by a cellular substance; and each lobe is composed of a great number of small parts, or grains. It very rarely happens that much fat is connected with this gland. Around the gland, there are several lymphatic glands, which are frequently swollen from diseases of the neighbour- ing parts; whereas the salivary glands are rarely swollen. There is in some subjects an accessory gland, situated close to the external border of the masseter, and along the upper border of the duct of the parotid, which sends out its pecu- liar ducts, which unite with that of the parotid. Each lobule of the gland sends out a small duct. These smaller ducts uniting, form the large duct, which, arising from the anterior border of the upper part of this gland, takes a horizontal direction over the anterior part of the masseter muscle, and pierces the buccinator muscle, and the internal membrane of the mouth, opposite to the space between the second and third grinder of the upper jaw. Morgagni has described the duct, as passing “ oblique antrorsum descendens.11 Steno describes it as passing horizontally through the buc- cinator muscle, obliquely between the fibres of the bucci- nator. The diameter of the duct is but small in proportion to its bulk, as the duct has very thick coats. The canal of the duct is.nearly cylindrical, and has two coats. The external is formed of a dense cellular substance, on the inner side of which there is a mucous membrane. There are manv branches of the temporal artery distributed upon the parotid gland; and it receives nerves from the portio dura of the seventh pair. Of the Submaxillary Gland. This gland is smaller than the parotid, somewhat of an oval