OF BILIARY CALCULI. 589 scribed. It chiefly differed in the following trifling circum- stances. It was of a lighter and more uniform colour; its ex- ternal surface was scarcely darker than the external layers, and both were similar as to roughness and want of lustre; it also had a stronger taste of bile. Like the preceding, it con- tained no adipocire, at least no notable quantity; for a little alcohol, digested with a large portion cf the concretion, and filtered whilst hot, remained perfectly transparent on cooling. From experiments similar to the last, this concretion appeared to consist principally of brown matter and bile. No. 4.—The appearance of these calculi, which were four or five in number, was peculiar; they were of different sizes, all small, excepting one about the size of a filbert, but all were simL lar in form, which approached nearer to the cube than any other figure; their external surface was of a dark shining black, rough,- and unequal; in each a nucleus was- found, consisting of a light yellowish substance, of a lamellar texture, and simi- lar, in appearance, to adipocire. The black matter (of which the calculi were chiefly composed, at least the small ones I ex- amined) was brittle, and had a brilliant conchoidal fracture, not unlike jet; its taste was peculiar and resinous, something like that imparted by oil of turpentine, very diluted; and it had a corresponding resinous smell. Heated before the blow- pipe, without any of the nucleus apparently present, it en- tered into a state of semifusion, swelled in bulk extremely, burnt with a brilliant flame, and left a black empty vesicle, more than ten times the original bulk, which, when strongly heated, was reduced to a most delicate film of white earthy matter, in appearance like net-work. I regret that I could not ascertain the nature of this earthy residue : the smallness of the quantity operated on, prevented it; and from the same cause, I was only able to learn the effects of a few re-agents, on the concretions themselves. Reduced to powder, with the nucleus present, and heated in a small quantity of alcohol, a very partial solution took place, which, filtered whilst hot, de- posited on cooling a crystalline film, like adipocire. The black residue was boiled in several portions of alcohol successively :