OF THE OS SPIIENOIDES. 153 hollow may be remarked, where the muscle called circum- flexus palati rises, and a part of the cartilaginous end of the Eustachian tube rests ; and, at the lower end of the same plate, is a hook-like rising or process, round which the tendon of the last-named muscle plays, as on a pulley. From the edge of the external plates there are some small projections of bone. There is also a little triangular thin process, which comes from each side of the body of the sphenoid bone, where the ptery- goid processes are rising from it, and are extended over the lower part of the aperture of the sinus as far as to join the eth- moid bone, while their body hangs down into the nares * Besides these pairs of processes, there is a sharp ridge which stands out from the middle of its base, hence called processus azygos. The lower part of this process, where it is received into the vomer, is thick, and often not quite perpendicular, but inclining more to one side than the other. The fore part of this process, where it joins the nasal plate of the os ethmoi- des, is thin and straight. These two parts have been described as two distinct processes by some. The depressions, sinuosities and fossse, on the external surface of this sphenoid bone, are the two temporal, in which the temporal muscles are lodged. Two on the or- bitar processes, for the eye-balls: two between the tempo- ral and spinous processes, for receiving the temporal bones : two between the plates of the pterygoid processes, where the musculi pterygoidei interni, and ptery-staphylini interni are placed: two between the pterygoid and orbitar processes, for forming the holes common to this, and to the cheek and max- illary bones : two on the lower ends of the aliform processes, which the plate bones enter into : two at the roots of the tem- poral and pterygoid processes, where the largest share of the external pterygoid muscles have their rise : two at the sides of the processus azygos, for forming part of the nose, Sic. The temporal and spinous processes internally are con- • Albm». Tab. Oss. v. Fig. 2. G. A. A. Birttn. Mem de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1714, Scb, planche viii. Fig. 2, 3, 4, 5, G-