ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 558 not only covers the surface of that organ, hut also enters into its substance ; and, on making a section of the liver, may be seen passing around the trunk and branches of the vena por- tarum. Under the outer covering of the liver there is a small quantity of cellular substance, especially at the upper part of the right lobe, in which the trunks of the lymphatic vessels of the liver are situated, and also in the sinus of the vena portae, which is a bond of union between the vena portae, the biliary ducts, nerves of the liver, and hepatic artery. The proper coat of the liver is thin : though nearly trans- parent, it is not easily torn, and it covers not only every part of the surface of the liver, but also the large vessels which are proper to this organ. The discovery of this membrane has been claimed by the modern French anatomists ; but such a claim is by no means just; for this membrane was de- scribed by Mr Grieve, in his thesis De Secretione Bilis, which was published in 1731. Of the Ligaments of the Liver. The position of the liver is, to a certain degree, only regu- lated by the reflections of the peritonaeum, called Ligaments, though they do not, in structure, bear an exact analogy to the ligaments which fix the bones to each other. The uppermost ligament is formed by a reflection of the peritonaeum passing from the diaphragm to the liver. It is fixed obliquely to the diaphragm, and to the extremity of the ensiform cartilage of the breast-bone, and adheres to the sheath of the rectus muscle, as far as the navel. This ligament is double, or consists of two layers of peritonaeum, between which there is a small quantity of cellular membrane, and a few lymphatic vessels, which pass from the upper and convex part of the liver to the chest. This ligament, when stretched, bears some resemblance to a sickle, and has been hence called the Falciform Ligament, and by others the Suspensory Ligament of the liver, from its sup- posed office of supporting the liver. But this ligament has little or no effect in suspending or supporting this bowel, which is rather supported by the contiguous bowels than by