ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 280 ternus, ligaments are extended to the astragalus, os calcis, and os naviculare; and, from its inside, short strong ones go .out to the astragalus. On the back-part of it, a sinuosity is made by the tendons of the peronaei muscles. When the li- gament extended over these tendons from the one side of the depression to the other is broken, stretched too much, or made weak by a sprain, the tendons frequently start forwards to the outside of the fibula. The upper end of the fibula is united with the tibia by plain surfaces tipped with cartilage; and, at its lower end, the cartilage seems to glue the two bones together; not, how- ever, so firmly in young, people, but that the motion at the other end of such a long radius is very observable. In a sub- luxation of the foot, the external malleolus is generally broken, as the connection of the fibula to the tibia is very strong. In old subjects, the bones of the leg frequently grow together at their lower ends'. This bone affords origin and insertion to muscles, the di- rection of which may be a little altered on proper occasions, by its upper part shuffling backwards and forwards. It like- wise renders the articulation of the foot more secure and firm. The space between the tibia and fibula is filled up by an interosseous ligament, excepting at its upper part, where the tibialis anticus and solasus muscles are in immediate contact with each other. The fibula is very frequently fractured near to the ankle-joint. Dufuytren * has published a valuable memoir on such fractures, and their consequences. Accord- ing to him, seven-tenths of such fractures occurred to the right leg, six-tenths from violent adductive movements of the foot, and only one-tenth from blows, or the passage of heavy bodies over the limb. The bone was generally fractured two inches from the lowest part of the malleolus externus; and, in these, the foot was displaced. In the Museum there is an instance of fracture of the fibula, near to the ankle-joint, which shews, in a very striking man- Vide Annuaire Med. Chir. des Hopit. de Paris, 1819.