MOVEABLE CARTILAGES WITHIN JOINTS. .325 produced in the joints, by white swelling, gout, and rheuma- tism, but where wounds have accidentally penetrated into the cavities of the joints, or been made with the intention of eva- cuating water, or of extracting such cartilaginous bodies, if the wound has not been properly closed, and the joint re- strained from motion, a very considerable and painful swell- ing of the whole joint has ensued ; which in some cases has terminated fatally, or, to save life, there has been a necessity of having recourse to the amputation of the limb *. The bursa?, in the same way, have been unavoidably cut in many of the experiments of Dr Haller and others on the tendons, and have appeared to be insensible. In some dis- eases, likewise, particularly in scrophula, I have observed them swelled without considerable pain. In other diseases, as in rheumatism, where greater inflammation is excited, we may frequently observe the bursae at the wrists and ankles swelled with great pain ; which is increased by pressing on these parts without bending the joints. In the case I have described, where many cartilaginous bo- dies were found within the bursa of the flexor pollicis longus, ■w hen the bursa came to be much stretched, and probably slightly inflamed, the patient felt considerable pain when pres- sure was made on it; just as in the case of moveable cartri lage within the knee, pain is often felt when the cartilage is lodged in certain places of the cavity of the joint. Generally, the patient is easiest when the cartilage can be felt at the sides of the joint; but in some cases, as in one I heard mentioned by Dr Middleton in 1756, be is easiest when the cartilage is lodged under the patella, and kept from getting out of that situation by a bandage. After extracting the cartilaginous bodies from the bursa, a very small seton was passed through it; as we took for granted, that if the puncture was allowed to close, the bursa would soon be again distended with fluid. The patient com- plained little in the time of passing the seton ; but three days * See Med. Ess, Vol. IV. Art. 20—Reimarus De Fungo Articul. p. 15, 16.— Dr D. Monro on the Dropsy, p. 170.