OF THE ETHIOPIAN CLASS. 211 ETHIOPIAN VARIETY. Negro *. Kaffre +, including Temboo, Briqua, Boschuana, Red Kaff'res, &c. &c. Colour generally very dark. Hair black; and as it is usually called woolly. Head narrow, compressed on the sides. Forehead arched. Malar bones prominent. Eyes full. Nose thick, and little distinct from the lips. Upper-jaw powerful and elon- gated. The inferior incisors projecting obliquely. Excessive fulness of the lips. Retreating chin. Many bandy-legged ; a certain apparent difficulty in main- taining an upright position; the knees bend forwards, and the heel has a constant ten- dency to quit the ground. The gastrocnemii muscles are placed too near the ham. Of a brown colour, or as it were bronzed ; some perfect- ly black. Hair black, crisp and woolly, and scattered in small tufts over the skull. Cranium narrow, elongated, re- sembling in outline the female European. Forehead differing but little from the Negro; i. e. rather retreating, narrow, and not high. As in the Negro. In the greater number nearly as in the Negro; some have less of the Ethiopian physiogno- my. Nearly as in the Negro. Scarcely the case in the Kaffre. As in the Negro. Not so much so as in the Negro. Never the case in the Kaffre. His lower extremities are fine- ly proportioned, and frequent- ly of Herculean strength; the upper extremities weak and disproportioned. Remarks.—The cranium of the Kaffre is inferior in most of its measurements to the European. The temporal bones are flat and compressed, and the squamous suture often straight, instead of being semicircular, as in the European. It results from this anatomical inquiry, that the Kaffre is closely allied to the Negro, aad that he may be called the Negro of the Mountains; there is no admixture of Arab blood in the race. * The description chiefly taken from Blumknbach, but compared with se- veral Negro Crania in the possession of Dr Monro. T The description taken from three Kaffre Crania, selected from those killed in the Zuurvcld. o 2