liLEMTS'XTS OF ANATOMY. 264 faces, covering the aponeuroses of the tendons of the exten- sors, lumbricales, and interossei, and placed directly back- wards, for their greater strength. Their flat concave part is forwards, for lodging the tendons of the flexor muscles. The ligaments for keeping down these tendons are fixed to the angles between the convex and concave sides. The bones of the first phalanx of the fingers are similar to the second bone of the thumb, only that the cavity in their base is not so oblong ; nor is their motion on the metacarpal bones so much confined ; for they can be moved laterally or circularly, but have no rotation, or a very small degree of it, round their axis. Both extremities of this first phalanx are in a cartilaginous state at birth ; and the upper one is afterwards affixed in the form of an epiphyse. The base of the second bone of the fingers has two lateral cavities, and a middle protuberance; while the lower end has two lateral protuberances and a middle cavity: therefore it is joined at both ends in the same manner. The third bone is similar to the second bone of the thumb, excepting in the general distinguishing marks ; and therefore the second and third phalanges of the fingers can only be bent and extended. The upper end of this third phalanx is cartilaginous in a child at birth ; and is only an epiphyse after, till the full growth of the body. The phalanges of the several fingers differ only as to mag- nitude. The bones of the middle finger being the longest and largest, those of the fore-finger come next in point of thickness, but not in length, for those of the ring-finger are a little longer. The little-finger has the smallest bones. As the longer fingers are applied to the middle largest periphery of such substances as are of a spherical figure, these are more securely held in the hand. Dislocations of the bones of the carpus are very rare, owing to the strength and shortness, and number of ligaments, by which these bones are conjoined.