OF THE LARGER INTESTINES. 543 The second portion may be called the Transverse Meso- colon. That on the left side, or third portion, called Mesocolon sini strum, is continued over the left side of the colon, from the iliac vessels, and psoas magnus, to the left kidney, cover- ing only the anterior surface of the colon, the back of which is connected, by cellular substance, with the diaphragm, the psoas muscle, and the kidney. The rectum, which constitutes the lower portion of the larger intestine, has been enumerated among the contents of the pelvis. The bowels of the pelvis are united by means of the peritonaeum, which may be traced from the recti muscles of the abdomen, to the under and back part of the bladder of urine, from which it is reflected upon the rectum, and then to the sacrum ; and, in women, upon the upper part of the pos- terior surface of the vagina. The peritonaeum generally covers only the anterior and la- teral portions of the rectum; but, in some cases, it surrounds the bowels forming its meso-rectum. Owing to the loose connection between the bladder and rec- tum, it has often happened, when the lateral operation of li- thotomy has been unskilfully performed upon the male, that the instruments, owing to the resistance of the prostate gland, have been passed into the sac between the rectum and blad- der, instead of having reached the bladder ; and, as they may be moved freely within that sac, the surgeon has not been aware of the error which he has committed. The Intestinurn Rectum follows the sweep of the os sacrum, inclining rather to the left side of that bone ; and it has a spe- cial relation to the bladder of urine, and organs of generation of both sexes, and therefore merits peculiar attention. Beyond the reflection of the peritonmum, the rectum is united, by cellular substance, to the vesiculae seminales and prostate gland of the male; and, in the female, to the va- gina. The peritonaeum is, in most instances, reflected from the rectum to the bladder of urine, about 3 inches from the verge of the anus, when the bladder has been distended.