598 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. We sometimes meet with one, two, or three smaller spleen* appended to the larger one. The spleen has two distinct coats, one of which is derived from the peritonaeum, the other is proper to this organ ; it is of considerable thickness, is elas- tic, and is continued into the substance of the spleen, and envelopes the splenic artery and vein. In the adult, these coats are so closely connected with each other, that it is very difficult to separate them. The spleen is by far the softest of the abdominal bowels; and I have known it torn, during life, in consequence of leaping; and, when pressed upon, loses considerably of its bulk. It very rapidly passes on to a state of putrefaction. When a section is made of the spleen, it seems to be composed of a number of white partitions, and of a congeries of arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic vessels, which are united to each other by cellular substance ; and the smaller branches of the arteries form an intimate net-work with each other, which has led to the idea of the existence of cells in the spleen. The splenic artery takes its rise from the casliac ; it follows a serpentine course; and, after having reached the substance of the spleen, is subdivided into a number of very small branches, which cross each other, and form an intricate net- work of vessels. The accompanying vein is larger than the artery; and, after receiving the small veins which correspond with the vasa brevia of the stomach, forms one of the three great veins which, by their union, fonn the vena portarum. Tire spleen varies much in bulk in proportion to the quan- tity of blood it contains, for if a ligature be thrown around the splenic vein, it swells out considerably; and, in the same manner, the stomach, when distended, forces out the blood the spleen contains. Malpighi has described follicles as being interposed be- tween the extremities of the splenic artery and the splenic vein; but I have never seen these. The nerves of the spleen are small, and are derived from the semilunar-solar ganglion; and they creep along the coats of the splenic artery, upon which they form an intricate plexus into the substance of the spleen.