110 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tion increasing, the motion must be more extensive; and it would be very conspicuous at their anterior ends, were, not they resisted there by the cartilages, which yield so little, that the principal motion is performed by the middle part of the ribs, which turns outwards and upwards, and occasions the twist remarkable in the long ribs at the place near their fore end, where they are most resisted *. Of the Peculiarities of the Ribs. In viewing the ribs from above downwards, their figure is still straighter ; the uppermost being the most crooked of any. Their obliquity, in respect of the spine, increases as they de- scend; so that though their distances from each other is very little different at their back part, yet at their fore ends the distances between the lower ones must increase. In conse- quence of this increased obliquity of the lower ribs, each of their cartilages makes a greater curve in its progress from the rib to- wards the sternum; and the tubercles, that are articulated to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, have their smooth sur- faces gradually facing more upwards. From the ribs becom- ing thus more oblique, while the sternum advances forwards in its descent, the distance between the sternum, and the interior end of the lower ribs,is greater than between the sternum and the ribs above; consequently the cartilages of those ribs that are joined to the breast-bone are longer in the lower than in the higher ones. These cartilages are placed nearej to each other as the ribs descend, which occasions the curvature of the carti- lages to be greater. My Father, in his treatise on the many ad- vantages which result from the obliquity of the intercostal muscles, has been at great pains in representing the peculi- arities as to the form of the ribs, and of their cartilages -f*. The length of the ribs increases from the first and upper- most rib, as far down as the seventh; and from that to the twelfth as gradually diminishes. The superior of the two plain, or rather hollow surfaces, • Winslow, Memoires de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1720. Vide Edin. Phil* Trans vol. iii.