OF THE OSSA NASI. .161 their middle, and becoming somewhat larger at the top, where they are ragged and thickest, and have a curvature forwards, that their connection with the frontal bone might be stronger. These bones are convex externally, and thereby better resist any violence from without; and they are concave internally, for enlarging the cavity of the nose. The lower edge of these bones is unequal, and is stretched outwards and backwards, to join the cartilages of the nostrils. Their anterior side is thick, especially above, and unequal, that their conjunction to each other might be stronger; and a small rising may be remarked on their inner edge, where they are sustained by the septum narium. Their posterior side, at its upper half, has externally a depression, where it is overlapped some way by the maxillary bones, while its lower half covers these bones : Thus they do not yield easily to pressure applied to their fore part or sides. A small hole is frequently to be observed on their external surface, into which two, three, or four, holes, which appear internally, terminate, for the transmission of small veins : sometimes the holes go no farther than the cancelli of the bones. The inhabitants of Java *, Hottentots, Brasilians *}*, Ne- groes, and South Sea Islanders |, endeavour to compress the nose immediately after birth, conceiving a broad flat nose to be conducive to beauty. It is probable that a similar cus- tom has prevailed in Egypt, for the breadth of the base of the nose of the figures carved in stone brought from that country is remarkable. But the flatness of the Negro nose is an original conformation ; a fact which has been fully esta- blished by the concurrent testimonies of Camper, Soemmer- ing, and Blomenbach. The latter author has represented the cranium of a Negro child and a Burat child, with all the cha- racteristic marks of the Ethiopian and Mongolian adult skull. * Marsden’s History of Sumatra, p. 44. f De Lery, Voyages en la Terre du Brasil, p. 98. t Forster’s Voyage Round the World, p. 593. VOL. I. L