84 elements of anatomy. lerence as to this diameter of the pelvis, hut it was rather less in the male Australasian than in the male European. 6th, That the distance between the extremity of the os sa- crum and the symphysis pubis was less in the Negress than in the female European, and rather less-in the Negro than in the male European. In three of the deformed pelves, the distance equalled little more than 3 inches.- 1th, That the distance between the sacro-iliac symphysis, and symphysis pubis, was also less in the Negress, and in the male from Australasia, than in the European female; and still less in one of the deformed pelves. 8th, That the distance between the fourth piece of the os sacrum and under part of the symphysis pubis, was much less in the Negress compared with the other diameters of the pelvis, than in the European female, and that this diameter in the deformed pelvis was-also less than in the well formed pelvis. In short, the pelvis of the Negress is smaller in all its diame- ters than that of the female European; and the same holds true in respect to the Negro, when compared with that of the male European. The preceding table also indicates the distinctive characters of the male and female pelvis. The female pelvis is evidently larger in all its dimensions, except the height, than that of the male; hence women take more room in sitting. The ossa ilia spread out wider, and thus the enlarged womb is better supported. The brim or upper aperture of the female pelvis is somewhat of an oval shape, corresponding in form to the head of the child; that of the male more nearly ap- proaches to a circle. On directing the attention to the several parts of the fe- male pelvis, each is found to be proportionally larger, so that the greater circumference of the female pelvis does not depend upon the greater expansion of any one particular part. The incurvation of the os sacrum and ossa coccygis, which is peculiar to the human race, is greater in the female, as also the breadth of the bones; and the bond of union between the several component pieces of the os coccygis is more loose,