ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 138 somewhat like the branches of trees; and are largest and deepest at the lower edge of each os parietale, especially near its anterior angle, where sometimes a complete canal is formed: They afterwards divide into small furrows, in their progress upwards. There are three instances in the museum, in which a large trunk of the principal artery of the dura mater is covered only by the outer table of the skull. In some skulls, a large furrow begins at the hole near the upper edge, and divides into branches, which join with those which come up- wards]; thus the upper and lower vessels of the dura mater, communicate with each other. In these furrows we frequent- ly see passages in the diploe; and sometimes I have observed canals going off, which allowed a small probe to pass some in- ches into the bony substance. Some * authors have observed these canals piercing.the bone towards the occiput. The conjoined ossa parietalia, form a canal which is frequently larger in the bone of one side than of the other, where the upper part of the falx is fastened, and the superior longitudi- nal sinus is lodged. A part of the lateral sinuses makes a de- pression near the angle formed by the lower and posterior sides of these bones. These bones are joined in front to the os frontis by the co- ronal suture; at their long inferior angles, to the sphenoidal bone, by part of the suture of this name; at their lower edge, to the ossa temporum, by the squamous suture and its pos- terior additamentum ; behind, to the os occipitis, or ossa tri- quetra, by the lambdoid suture; and above, to one another, by the sagittal suture. In a child born at the full time, none of the sides of this bone are completed. These bones are more frequently broken than any other of the bones of the skull, especially towards their juncture with the temporal bones, and the fracture genex'ally extends up- wards, but sometimes it passes downwards, and stretches across •the base of the skull. Cowper, Anatom. Explic, of XC. Tab. Fig. 1.