ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 268 means of part of the fascia aponeurotica of the thigh. Near to the beginning of the internal ridge it is discontinued, where the femoral artery passes through the aponeurosis. Between these two rough lines, there is a flat surface, on which the large bloodvessels and nerves are placed ; and near the end of each of these ridges a small smooth protuberance may often be remarked, where the two heads of the external gastrocnemius muscle take their rise, and where sesamoid bones are sometimes found * ; and from the fore-part of the internal tubercle a strong ligament is extended to the inside of the tibia. The lower end of the os femoris is expanded into two protuberances, called its condyles; between which a con- siderable cavity is found, especially at the back-part, in which the popliteal bloodvessels and nerves are situated. The internal condyle is longer than the external, which must hap- pen from the oblique position of this bone, to give less obli- quity to the leg. Each of these processes seems to be divided in its plain smooth surface. The mark of division on the external is a notch, and on the internal a small protuberance. The fore- part of this division, on which the rotula moves, is like a pul- ley, which is higher on the external side ; hence, the greater frequency of dislocations of the knee-pan outwardly. Behind, there are two oblong large heads, whose greatest extent is backwards, for the motion of the tibia ; and from the rough cavity between them, but near to the base of the internal con- dyle, one of the conical ligaments of the knee takes its rise ; a little above which, a rough protuberance gives insertion to the tendon of the triceps. On the back-part of the internal, a slight depression is made by the tendons of the gracilis and sartorius; and on the external, such another is formed by the biceps flexor cruris; behind which, a deep fossa is to be observed, where the popliteus muscle has its origin. A strong round ligament extends between the external Vesal. lib. 1. cap. 28. & 30.