ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 564 Mr ABERNEfHY met with an instance in which the trunk of the vena porta; terminated in the vena cava ; notwithstand- ing which, bile was found in the biliary ducts, which could have been derived only from the hepatic artery. The late Mr Wilson, Teacher of Anatomy in London, informed me of a case in which, on account of the very unu- sual distribution of the bloodvessels of the liver, there was reason to suppose that the greater part of the bile had been derived from the hepatic artery. The patient, a female of thirteen years of age, died from the effects of an injury of the head. On dissection, Mr Wilson found a large swelling at the root of the mesentery, consisting of several absorbing glands in a scrofulous state. Upon cutting into the mass, he accidentally observed a large vein passing directly from it into the vena cava inferior, which, on dissection, proved to be the vena portarum ; and, on tracing the vessels entering into it, one was found to be the inferior mesenteric vein ; and another, which came directly to meet it from behind the stomach, proved to be a branch of the splenic vein, but somewhat larger, winch, ran upwards by the side of the vena cava inferior, and entered that vein immediately before it became nearly surrounded by the liver. Mr Wilson then traced the branches of the trunk of the vessel corresponding to the vena portarum, sufficiently far in the mesentery and mesocolon, to be convinced that it was the only vessel which returned the blood from the small intestines, and the coecum and colon of the large. He could trace no vein passing into the liver at the cavity of the porta; but a small vein descended from the little epiploon, and soon joined one of the larger branches of the splenic vein. The remains of the umbilical vein were impervious, and he traced the cord formed by them to the entrance of the portae. The right lobe of the liver was small, in comparison to the size of the child’s body, but the left lobe was larger, and of a roundish shape. The hepatic artery came off in a distinct trunk from the aorta, and ran di- rectly to the liver. The cceliac artery came from the aorta, and divided into three branches; but the one corresponding to what is usually the hepatic supplied the stomach, and