ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 202 frontal sinuses, and not by the whole os frontis. I have seen several persons whose foreheads were remarkably promi- nent at the frontal sinuses, but in which the upper part of the os frontis retreated nearly as much as in the greatest number of African skulls. The above observation applies also to the skulls of quadru- peds ; for in these the frontal sinuses are much more capa- cious and extensive than in the human skull : in some, as the elephant and owl, they extend over the whole skull. A better craniometer may be made of four pieces of wood or brass, divided into inches, and properly subdivided, and one of which may be moved either in a horizontal or in a perpen- dicular direction : and for the sake of still greater accuracy, a Nonius or Vernier is added to one of the sides. Holes are perforated at each inch or half-inch of the sides of the instru- ment, for the purpose of affixing silk threads, which are stretched from one side of the instrument to the other, by which a number of small squares are formed. By placing a skull behind these squares the form of the skull is seen with accuracy, and may be transferred to a piece of paper divided in a similar way. It may be copied, or reduced, with mathe- matical accuracy, and every deviation from the most common shape, may be traced and represented on paper, by one who has attained but little proficiency as a draughtsman. The following remarks on the more marked differences in the form of the skulls of different nations have been taken chiefly from my own collection of skulls, which, through the kind offices of many good friends, is now considerable. I have also derived some useful observations from the careful examination of skulls in the Museum of Natural History of the University, and also in that of the Phrenological Society, to which I have had free access through the liberality of Mr Combe. In order to shorten the labour of the reader, and, at the same time, to place in a prominent point of view the distinc- tive characters of the crania of different nations, I have col- lected into a table the measurements of skulls of different na- tions, and have selected such as have not been fully described by former authors.