282 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. extensor muscles * of the leg. In such fracture, the rotula seems to give way, whilst the knee is in the middle state be- tween flexion and extension ; that is, whilst the middle of the rotula is supported on the rough line of the os femoris, as on a fulcrum; in which situation, the weight of the body and the muscles have the advantage of a lever to crack it across, although they were not sufficient, by straight traction, to draw its parts asunder. Sometimes this bone is broken in an oblique, and also, though rarely, in a longitudinal direction, by external violence. Owing to the considerable contusion, and great swelling on the knee, it is difficult to distinguish the precise nature of the injury ; and, from the violence done, the patient sometimes sinks. If the fracture be transverse, the strength of the knee ge- nerally bears a ratio to the distance of the broken portions of the knee-pan from each other,—a circumstance I some time ago,saw strongly exemplified in the case of a gentleman who had broken both knee-pans. The cure was not equally per- fect in both limbs : that of the right was the more incom- plete; and hence that knee was so weak, that though he used a stick, he often fell upon it in going down a hill, or down stairs. But there are some exceptions to the above observations, of which a very striking example presented itself to me the day after I had written the above lines. I shall give the case in the patient’s own words : « A stout man, between SO and 40 years of age, broke the knee-pan of his left leg, by falling upon it two years ago. A bandage was applied, and he got well : the broken pieces were distant from each other about an inch; and, for six months after the injury, his leg w as kept extended by a splint. After the splint was taken ofl, his leg was weak and stiff, and he was obliged to make his foot describe a semicircle in walking, and his toe often struck the ground. Fourteen months after the knee-pan had been broken, he fell down stairs, with his knee bent under him, but it never struck • Pare', Liv. xv. chap. 22.