156 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. cealed by the thin laminous part of the palate bone. Through it a considerable branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves is reflected. Often in the middle of the sella turci- ca a small hole or two pierce as far as the cellular substance of the bone; and sometimes at the sides of this sella, one or more small holes penetrate into the sphenoidal sinuses. The first of the common holes is that unequal fissure at the side of the sella turcica, between the extreme point of the os petrosum and the spinous process of the cuneiform bone. This hole only appears after the bones are boiled ; for, in a re- cent subject its back part is covered by a thin bony plate that lies over the internal carotid artery, and farther forward it is filled by a ligament, under which the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tubeis placed. The second common hole is the large discontinuation of the external side of the orbit, left between the orbital* process of the cuneiform bone, the os maxillare, malae, and palati. In this large hole, the fat for lubricating the globe of the eye and temporal muscle is lodged, and branches of the superior maxillary nerve, with small arteries from the caro- tid and veins pass. The third hole is formed between the base of this bone and the root of the orbitar process of the palate-bone of each side. Through this a branch of the ex- ternal carotid artery, and of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, pass to the nostrils, and a returning vein ac- companies them. Sometimes, however, this hole is proper to the palate-bone, being entirely formed out of its substance. Under the sella turcica, and some way farther forward, but within the substance of the sphenoid bone, are two sinuses separated by a bony plate. Each of them is lined by a mu- cous membrane, and opens into the upper and back part of each nostril by a round hole which is at their upper fore part. This hole is not formed only by the os sphenoides, which has an aperture near as large as any transverse section of the si- mis but also by the palate bones which are applied to the fore part of these sinuses, and close them up, that hole only excepted, which was already mentioned. Frequently the two sinuses are of unequal dimensions, and sometimes there is on- ly one large cavity, with an opening into one nostril. I hesc