VOLUNTARY MUSCLES, &C. 357 It may not be improper to add, that some of the muscles •which are not in man obedient to the will, are so in some ani- mals ; thus, in ruminating animals, the stomach is a voluntary muscle; and, farther, even in the human body, those muscles which are involuntary are, in consequence of violent passions of the mind, sometimes excited, as palpitation of the heart, by anger or fear. The nerves which lead to the voluntary muscles are much larger than those proper to the involuntary muscles; yet the irritability of the latter class is more durable, and more readi- ly excited than that of the former class. The irritability, therefore, of a muscle, is by no means proportioned to the size of the nerves. The degree of contraction of the involuntary muscles is less than that of muscles under the dominion of the will. There is a third and intermediate class of muscles, which has been named mixed, as we can at pleasure increase or mo- dify their action, but cannot stop it altogether, or for a great length of time. The diaphragm, and muscles of respiration, are included in this class. Of the action of this third class of muscles we are not sensible, unless the attention of the mind be directed to it. When such muscles act in an unna- tural manner, or when thei ction is impeded, then we suffer very great distress. But, s. j habit, we become capable of suspending the action of these muscles for a much longer time; thus divers are said to be capable of suspending their breathing for some minutes, without oppression. Under this class the sphincter muscles may perhaps be in- cluded : they are not constantly, but only occasionally, under the dominion of the will. The degree of contraction of muscles is very various: it has generally been said that muscles contract one-third only of their length; but many muscles, as those of the bladder of urine, and the sphincter of the mouth, are capable of conr- tracting two-thirds, if not more. Does a muscle (as supposed by older authors) increase in its density when it contracts ?