118 OF THE RIBS. The fossa, in its lower edge, is not so deep as in the upper ribs, because the vessels run more towards the interstice be- tween the ribs. Its fore end is smaller than its body, and its short small cartilages are but loosely connected to the car- tilage of the rib above. The twelfth rib is the shortest and straightest. Its head is only articulated with the last vertebra of the thorax ; there- fore is not divided into two surfaces. This rib is not joined to the transverse process of the verte- bra, and therefore has no tubercle, being often pulled neces- sarily inwards by the diaphragm, which an articulation Avith the transverse process would not have allowed. The fossa is not found at its under edge, because the ves- sels run below it. The fore part of this rib is smaller than its middle, and has only a very small pointed cartilage fixed to it. To its Avhole internal side the diaphragm is connected. The heads and tubercles of the ribs of a neAv born child have cartilages oh them; part of Avhich become afterwards thin epiphyses. The bodies of the ribs encroach gradually after birth upon the cartilages; so that the latter are propor- tionally shorter, when compared to the ribs, in adults, than in children. The provident care of our Creator, in preserving us from perishing as soon as we come into the Avorld, by com- pleting before birth the ossification of the condyles of the oc- cipital hone of the lower Jaw, and the heads and tubercles of the ribs, merits particular mention: hence the Aveight of the large head is firmly supported ; the actions of sucking, respi- ration, &c. which are indispensably necessary to life, are per- formed Avithout danger of separating the parts of the bones that are most pressed on in these motions: whereas,had these processes of the head, jaw, and ribs, been epiphyses at birth, children must have been exposed to danger of dying by such a separation ; the immediate consequences of Avhich AVould be the compression of the beginning of the spinal marrow, or want of food, or a stop put to respiration. As the ribs are in contact with the lungs, when one or more VOL. i. u