OF THE OS CALCIS. 287 A considerable share of this bone is ossified in a new-born infant. Of the Os Calcis. The Os Calcis, the largest bone of the foot, projects con- siderably backwards to form the heel: The surface of which is rough behind, where the tendo Achillis is inserted into it; and above, it is hollow and spongy. Farther forwards, on the upper surface of the bone, there is an irregular oblong smooth convexity, adapted to the concavity at the back-part of the astragalus: And beyond this a narrow fossa is seen, which divides it from two small concave smooth surfaces, that are joined to the fore-part of the astragalus. Behind the pos- terior of these smooth surfaces, which is the larger, a small si- nuosity is made by the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus; at the fore-part of which, a small rough protuberance ap- pears, that gives rise to the musculus extensor digitorum brevis. The external side of this bone is flat, with a superficial fos- sa running horizontally, in which the tendon of the musculus peronaeus longus is lodged. The internal side of the heel- bone is hollowed, for lodging the origin of the massa carnea Jac. Sylvii, and for the safe passage of tendons, nerves, and arteries. Under the side of the internal smooth concavity, there is a groove for the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus ; and fiom the thin protuberance on this internal side, the car- tilaginous ligament that supports the astragalus, goes out to the os naviculare; on which ligament, and on the edge of this bone to which it is fixed, there is a groove for the tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus. The lower surface of this bone is pressed flat at the back- part, by the weight of our bodies; and immediately before this plane, there are two tubercles, from the internal of which the musculus abductor pollicis, flexor digitorum sublimis, as also part of the aponeurosis planlaris, and of the abductor minimi digit), have their origin ; and the other part of the ab- ductor minimi digiti and aponeurosis plantaris rise from the external.