ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 4 The older authors supposed that all the organic solids might be divided into the simple fibre, which was chiefly com- posed of oil, earth, and iron; which simple fibres, according to Haller, are invisible, and exist only in the mind’s eye. Fibres, united by compact cellular substance, compose membranes of different textures, which, in structure, are more or less complicated, and which are subservient to diffe- rent purposes in the animal economy; and of these parts of different texture or tissues, the animal body is an assem- blage. As to the nature of the ultimate structure of the different tissues of the animal body, anatomists are not agreed: pro- bably they consist of cellular and muscular substance, small branches of arteries, and of nerves. The bodies of animals are composed of several Organs, and the different organs are of a more simple or complicated struc- ture, being made up of one or more Tissues; and it is ne- cessary to study these separately, and to examine how far each of these enters into the fabric of any particular part; and to this department of anatomy, the term General or Ana- lytical Anatomy has been applied. In whatever part of the body these tissues are placed, they exhibit the same physical and chemical properties, and are liable to peculiar organic derangements. Hence it is an object not merely of curiosity, but of real use, to investigate care- fully the nature of the particular tissues, and of the organic derangements to which they are liable. These tissues possess, individually, different degrees of hardness and elasticity, are different as to chemical analysis, and are composed of the elements and substances above enu- merated. This general .anatomy rfiay be said to be of modern date ; and, like other great improvements, has gradually arrived at its present state of perfection. In the works of Haller, an attempt is made to simplify it. He makes mention of a fun- damental elementary tissue, adopting the opinions of the older authors; but his was a vague, hypothetical, and unnatural system.