165 OF THE OSSA MALARUM. to the maxillary bone, by the internal orbital- suture ; by the side between the maxillary and inferior orbitar process, again to the maxillary bone, by the external orbitar suture; by the zygomatic process to the os temporum, by the zygomatic su- ture. In infants the cheek-bones are entire, and fully ossified. Ossa Maxillaria Superior a. The Ossa Maxillaeia Superiora, which are irregular in form, constitute the far greater part of the upper jaw. There are seven processes of each os maxillare. The first is the long nasal one at its upper and fore part, which is broad below, and tui*ns smaller, as it rises upwards to make the side of the nose. At the root of this, a transverse ridge may be observed within the nostrils, which supports the fore-part of the upper edge of the os spongiosum inferius. The second or orbitar is produced backwards and outwards, from the root of the nasal process, to form the lower side of the orbit. The edge of this orbitar process, and the ridge of the nasal one, which is continued from it, form a considerable portion of the external circumference of the orbit. From the proper orbitary process, a very rough triangular surface, called Mal- lar Process, is extended downwards and outwards, to be con- nected to the cheek-bone; from the lowest protuberant part of which a part of the masseter muscle takes its rise. Be- hind the orbitar process, there is a large tuberosity, or bulge of the bone, called the Fourth Process. I have seen this process destroyed by n, polypus growing within the antrum maxillare, so that the tumour hung backAvard into the throat. On the internal part of the tuberosity, there is often a ridge, almost of the same height Avith that in the nasal process, which runs transversely, and is covered by a similar ridge of the palate-bone, on which the back-part of the upper edge of the os spongiosum inferius rests. The convex back part of this tuberosity is rough, for the origin of part of the external pterygoid muscle *, and more internally is scabrous, Avhcre the * Albxn. de Ossib. sect, 79.