102 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. felt after delivery, and which could not fail to be a source of great uneasiness. There occurs no doubt after delivery, in some cases, some- what of a relaxation, from the pressure of the uterus upon the returning veins, and from the mechanical force of the head of the child acting like a wedge against these joints. Upon this point there is much contrariety of opinion, and it may not be improper to put the reader in possession of the opinions of some of the most distinguished writers upon this head. My grandfather had collected the sentiments of the older authors on this head in an unpublished manuscript, of which the subjoined is an extract. “ Bauhixus mentions two examples; one of them a wo- man 24 years of age, who was hanged at Paris, ten days af- ter she had been delivered of a child. When either of the legs of the corpse was raised, the os pubis of that side started half an inch higher than the other one; and this, he says, they did alternately, to show the loose connection of the bones of the pelvis. He tells us, that Pin.eus who was present gives a full account of this experiment. Bauhixus further says, that he saw the same thing in a lady who had died undeli- vered of the placenta. He then quotes Ferxelius, Silvius, and a great many other writers, who assert that this relaxa- tion happens. Sfigelius affirms that he has seen the os pu- bis of the old, where the leg was raised, to stand up an inch; but is of opinion that this relaxation only happens in tedious hard labour. Riolan seems to think that a relaxation gene- rally happens, and affirms that he demonstrated it more than thirty times to Physicians and Surgeons, and particularly relates what he says he shewed to above three hundred spec- tators in the public dissection of the body of a woman who was hanged four days after having borne a child. “ In her the cartilage between the ossa pubis was relaxed an inch, and the conjunction of the ossa ilium with the os sa- crum was so loose, that he easily separated them with a thin scalpel. Instead of cartilage interposed between these bones, there was a thick red-coloured ligament. Diemenbroek only