194 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. larger than usual; whereas the other, from the forehead be- ing very prominent, bears all the characters of the head of a child labouring under hydrocephalus chronicus. May not the above fact be attributed to a larger quantity of water being effused on one side of the head than on the other? the cause of which has been well explained in the follow- ing letter from my late ingenious colleague Dr Rutherford, to my Father: “ I have seen,” says he, “ one of the ventri- cles much enlarged and full of water, while the other re- mained of its natural capacity, and contained hardly any wa- ter. This appearance I should however impute, not to the obliteration or obstruction of the communication between the lateral ventricles, but to one side of the brain being more af- fected with disease, more flaccid and tender than the other ; in consequence of which, a greater exudation had taken place from the vessels of this part, and the sides of the ventricle had yielded more readily to the pressure of the water, as it was effused.” Such, in general, is the state of the head in the first stage of hydrocephalus chronicus ; but it is proper to remark, that cases occur where some parts of the surface of the skull are below the level of others, which is probably owing to the os- sification not being completed at those places. During the progress of the disease, the head exhibits many striking varieties as to form and size. It never preserves its natural form. It acquires an unusual breadth ; but especially at those parts which correspond with the centres of ossification of the parietal bones, and also in the forehead. The effusion of a watery liquor into the cavities of the brain, which takes place to a greater or less degree in different in- stances, produces these effects." * The undulation of a fluid within the head, may be distinctly perceived at the sutures, if the watery liquor has been effused between the membranes of the brain ; nay, even where it is effused within the ventricles, especially if the quan- tity of it be large; as in such cases, in consequence of the pressure by disten- tion, a great part of the brain is absorbed, and a communication is formed be- twixt the water which is effused between the membranes, and that within the ventricles of the brain.