OF THE FIBULA, 279 from above downwards and backwards, by the two peronaei muscles. Its internal surface is unequally divided into two narrow longitudinal planes, by an oblique ridge extended from the upper part of the anterior angle, to join with the lower end of the internal angle. To this ridge the ligament stretched between the two bones of the leg is connected. The anterior of the two planes is very narrow above, where the extensor longus digitorum and extensor longus pollicis arise from it. The posterior plane is broad and hollow, giving origin to the larger share of the tibialis posticus. The inter- nal angle of this bone has a tendinous membrane fixed to it, from which fibres of the flexor digitorum longus take their rise. The posterior surface of the fibula is made flat above by the solaeus, and is hollowed below by the flexor pollicis longus. In the middle of this surface the canal for the me- dullary vessels may be seen slanting downwards. The lower end of the fibula is extended into a spongy ob- long head, on the inside of which is a convex, irregular, and frequently a scabrous surface, that is received by the external hollow of the tibia, and is firmly joined to it by a very thin intermediate cartilage and strong ligaments. Below this, the fibula is stretched out into a smooth coro- noid process, which is covered with cartilage on its internal side, where it is contiguous to the outside of the first bone of the foot, the astragalus, to secure the articulation. Hence luxations of the foot are very rare, and produced only by very great violence; and such luxations are frequently accom- panied by a fracture of one of the malleoli. The luxation inwards, is more frequent than the luxation outwards, the malleolus interims being shorter than the malleolus externus. This process, named malleolus externus, being situated far- ther back than the internal malleolus, and in an oblique direc- tion, obliges us naturally to turn the fore-part of the foot out- wards*. From the lower internal part .of the malleolus in- Winslow, Memoires de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1722.