360 elements of anatomy. body be kept in an unusual position for a short time, we ex- perience much fatigue. The above observations do not apply to the muscles of the extremities, for their action may be diversified to a much greater degree without fatigue, but by them we are less cap- able of continuing the same action, as of extending the arm for an equal length of time, without experiencing much fa- tigue. But when the contraction of muscles is increased or repeated more frequently than is usual, then we experience fatigue in a very short time. Thus, in the ordinary breath- ing, the diaphragm and intercostal muscles act constantly, and without fatigue, but laughing, which is an involuntary action, soon becomes excessively distressing. Observations on the Collocation of Muscles. By means of the muscles on the fore and back parts of the body, it is kept in equilibrium, and many of the muscles of the trunk of the body combine with those of the lower extremi- ties in the function of locomotion ; the muscles of the breast and shoulder move the upper extremity, those of the fore- arm move the fingers, and the muscles of the neck and upper part of the back part of the body serve for moving the head and supporting it. Galen, in his treatise De Usu Partium, has described the several qualifications of each particular muscle, its position, figure, just magnitude, its fulcrum, its point of action, and its collocation with respect to its two ends. The movements of the body are regulated by the form of the bones, the disposition of the articular surfaces, the man- ner in which the muscles are fixed to the bones, and the di- rection of the muscular fibres. 1st, There is an exact relation between the joint and the muscles which move it. Thus, at the elbow and knee joints there are muscles ca- pable of performing flexion and extension only ; but at the shoulder and hip joints, muscles are superadded, for per- forming the rotatory movements of which these joints admit. 2d, Muscles act only by contractile pozver; the contraction