374 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. to the will, as in yawning. All those actions which are neces- sary for life, as sucking, swallowing, or crying, a child per- forms accurately as soon as it is born ; but others, which are less necessary, it gains by practice, or by being taught. By Sympathy, particular muscles are called into action. Thus, the sight of disagreeable objects produces the expres- sion of horror, and sometimes excites vomiting ; and perhaps, owing to this principle, hysteria and epilepsy are propagated from one person to another. Effects of Passions of the Mind on Muscular Action. The different passions of the mind naturally call into action certain muscles, and the predominating passion implants upon the countenance a corresponding indelible impression, though the mind is not at the instant under the influence of that par- ticular passion : hence, those of the same profession generally acquire the same character of countenance. Upon this the science of Physiognomy is built. Not only the muscles of the face, but also those of other parts of the body, are thrown in- to actions corresponding with the ruling passions of the mind. The attitude of the body is perhaps equally characteristic of particular passions as the expression of the countenance. To this the painter must devote particular attention, that the attitude of the figure be consonant with the expression of the face. The last circumstance respecting muscles which merits mention is, the wonderful manner in which muscles, in cases of fractures and luxations, adapt themselves to their unnatural situations. This is a process of time ; for, at first, the ill-set bone, or dislocated joint, is in a great measure motionless; but, in process of time, a certain degree of the power of mo- tion is regained, and even when the fractured limb has been rendered considerably shorter than the sound limb, and when the muscles must have lost considerably of their length. Vide many other observations upon muscular action, under the head of Functions of the Nervous System.