ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 572 the urinary calculi contained within them. In the healthy body, the gall-ducts seem to possess but a small share of sen- sibility, and do not evidently contract when irritated ; but, when irritated by the presence of gall-stones, they acquire a marked sensibility, which may probably afford an explanation of the cause of the acute pain which patients afflicted by gall- stone jaundice suffer. It cannot be doubted, that the ducts of all the glands are more or less irritable, and are endowed with a muscular power; and it seems not improbable, that the smaller branches are even more so than the larger trunks. Besides, in the ex- periments above mentioned, in which one of the lobes of the liver had been cut out, if the biliary ducts had not possessed a contractile power, the bile would have been effused into the cavity of the abdomen, and must have proved fatal to the animal. Upon the mucous lining, there are a number of small -orifices, through which a mucous fluid is discharged : these orifices are scarcely visible, but when the gall-ducts have been enlarged in cases of gall-stone jaundice. That the coats of the gall-ducts often attain an unusual size, when the free flow of the bile into the duodenum has, from a mechanical cause, been interrupted, has been long known; but the degree to which these ducts may be expand- ed, and the short time in which that happens, was, I believe, first ascertained by the experiments of my father; and of which I possess a statement, bearing date 1773. He threw a ligature around the ductus communis choledo- chus of several pigs. Soon after the experiment, an universal jaundice took place, and even the bones had assumed an orange colour. The words of the original manuscript are, M The stoppage was such as to occasion vast dilatation in the course of twenty hours.” “ In one pig, the lymphatic vessels of the liver seemed to contain a yellower coloured liquor than elsewhere. In three others, I tied the ductus communis choledochus, and sewed up the wound in the abdomen. In one, I opened the wound next day. In a second, I opened it two days afterwards, and after I had tied the thoracic duct at its termination. In a