190 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY The form of the external table of the skull may also be changed by disease. Thus, tumours of different descriptions grow from the sof- ter parts as well as from the skull, which materially alter its form. Thus, I have represented in my Outlines of Anatomy, Plate XII. the skull of a rickety person, which was nearly an inch thick; in that instance the sweep of the internal table does not correspond with that of the external table. I now proceed to enumerate, those circumstances which de- monstrate the influence of the brain upon the form of the skull. That the cranium owes its shape chiefly to the extension of the contained parts, and the resistence of the external or- gans, seems proved, or at least rendered probable, as the brain and cerebellum of the foetus are formed, long before the skull, and it is impressed by the brain. It may readily be supposed, that the bones of the skull, which in the foetal state are formed between the pericranium and dura mater, and which are originally in a soft and elastic state, should be moulded to the form of the brain. • The ossification of the skull goes on but slowly : it is not completed until the child has attained its third or fourth year, and often not until a later period : hence the bones, which are not so hard as in advanced life, more readily receive and retain the impressions of the convolutions, and other project- ing parts of the brain, and are so impressed by these, that, by an attentive examination, it is easy to determine what part of the skull has been most acted on. Thus, upon comparing the top with the base of the skull, the latter is found very unequal in its surface, as it not only resists the extension of the brain, but also supports its weight. Further, these impressions in the base of the skull become deeper during the progress of life. As general pressure produces so manifest a change upon the form of the skull, that pressure, partially applied, may also lead to the distortion of the skidl; and hence the skull will be expanded in the direction to which the head is inclined.