62 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. form of the letter S. Curvature of the spine also arises from other sources, as from rickets and caries of the bodies of the vertebrae; and when it originates from the latter cause, the spine is generally bent forward at a considerable angle, and sometimes, though more rarely, rickets produce a similar effect. When the spine is bended, the vertebrae are much thinner on the one side than the other, and sometimes are carious at the place where there is the greatest degree of flexion. I have in my possession a very remarkable specimen of the lateral curvature of the spine, in which all the vertebrae have been united to each other by bony substance, and the ribs, which in this specimen are also much distorted, are fixed to each other by pieces of bone which pass in a transverse direction. The os sacrum in this specimen is also much distorted. The ribs where the spine is deformed must also become distorted, and in different specimens we meet with varieties as to the de- gree of distortion of the spine and ribs. The curvature generally extends also to the bones of the pelvis, but there are exceptions to this general rule; for when distortion of the spine does not begin in early life, the pelvis may be well formed, as it is not so liable to be dis- torted by the weight of the body, as the bones of the spine. A curvature of the spine should not be neglected, espe- cially when it occurs in females, as being often attended by the most serious consequences: thus the lives of many mothers and children may be saved. The cure consists in counteracting the bending force, by change of posture, or increasing the compression on the con- vex part of the curvature, and diminishing it on the concave side, by taking off the superincumbent weight by the ho- rizontal posture, and by invigorating the powers of the con- stitution by tonic remedies. But if the curvature be con- nected with rickets, other means must be employed : the mu- riate of lime, when taken for several months, is often of great benefit to such a patient. I am fully aware that much mischief has been done by ma- chinery, which takes off the weight of the head and upper ex- tremities, and also that much good may be done by calling