ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 394 which take their rise from the crural arch. These smaller connecting fibres are by no means equally manifest in every instance, being, in some persons, very small and flattened ; but, in others, distinct, thick, and rounded cords; and, in hernia, sometimes become very large, and make a distinct impression on the hernial sac *. Sometimes these connecting fibres are entirely wanting. The under part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, is thicker ajid stronger than any other part of it, and somewhat rounded, especially towards the ossa pubis. It has been described under the name of Poupart’s Ligament; and, more lately, it has been called by anatomists Crural Arch, as it extends over the flexor muscles, great bloodvessels, and nerves of the thigh. This under part of the tendon was formerly supposed to be attached only to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the lb gament of the symphysis pubis. Mr Gimbernat has however shewn, that the tendon is doubled inwards, and forms a canal for the spermatic cord in the male, and for the round ligament of the uterus in the female. Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, is sometimes double. I have seen two such ligaments on each side. When that is the case, the one ligament is generally fixed about a line above the tubercle of the pubes, and the other is found in its usual situation. About an inch, or a little more, from the symphysis pubis, the tendon of the external oblique muscle is generally divided into an upper and under column ; but, in some in- stances, the division takes place at a greater distance from the symphysis pubis. Between the tendinous columns, which are connected at the upper part by a few transverse tendinous fibres, a space intervenes, which is somewhat of an oval fi- gure, and has been commonly called the Spermatic King; but this term conveys an inaccurate idea of the form of this aperture, and it should be called Inguinal or Abdominal aper- Vide Plates of Inguinal Hernice by Camper.