485 OF THE TEETH. it slopes inwards, till it rises again into a point. It has gene- rally but one root, which sometimes is long and crooked at its point. The second Dens molaris has two points on its base, rising almost equally on its outside and inside. It has two roots, either separate or run together, but shorter than the root of the first. These two anterior grinders are much smaller than the three that are placed farther back in the mouth. The third and fourth are very broad in their bases, with four or five points standing out; and they have three or more roots. The fifth, commonly called Dens sapientiee, from its com- ing through the gums later than the other grinders, has four points on its base, which is not so large as the base of the third and fourth, and its roots are less numerous. Its body is some- what rounder, and is smaller in the upper than in the lower jaw, so as to be directly opposite to it. The Incisores of the upper jaw are broader than those of the lower jaw ; hence the superior grinders are placed farther back than the lower ones, so that, when they are brought to- gether, by shutting the mouth, the points of the grinders of the one jaw enter into the depressions of the 9pposite grinders; and they are all equally applied to each other, notwithstand- ing the inequality of their surfaces. From the numerous roots of the Dentes Molares, the lateral pressure in grinding does not render them loose; and, as the sockets in the upper jaw are more spongy, and the teeth are more liable, by their situation, to fall out *, the grinders there have more numerous and more separated roots than in the lower jaw -f\ The number, however, of the roots of the teeth of both jaws is very uncertain. Sometimes there are more, sometimes fewer. Frequently the roots are joined together; at other times they are all distinct. The disposition of such as are distinct is also various ; for, in some, the roots stand out straight; in others they separate ; and in others, again, they are crooked inwards. When the roots are united, wre can still • Galeh. dc 03sib. cap, v, t Favchard, Chirurg. Dent. chap. ^