ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 534 a medium between these, and measure, in the adult, about six times the length of the body. The intestines next the stomach are of smaller size than those near to the lower end of the tube ; and hence they have been divided into the smaller and larger, the former of' which are subdivided by anatomists into three portions, called the Duodenum, Jejunum and Ileum. The first named portion has been so named from its length, which is equal to the breadth of twelve fingers ; it is the most capacious part of the smaller intestines, and has hence not improperly been called by Riolan the Assisting Stomach. This intestine follows a tortuous course; it has been more fully described by my Grandfather than by any other author, which has led me to insert his description of it. From the pylorus, the duodenum descends obliquely to the right side, with the anterior lamella of the omentum fixed to its inferior part; and the little omentum proceeding from the opposite part to connect it to the liver. After this, the duodenum is involved about an inch and a- half in a doubling of the omentum, and then enters into the duplicatureof the mesocolon, where it cannot be seen without dissecting away that fatty membrane. It descends in this cel- lular sheath, till it is almost contiguous to the great sac of the colon, which properly is the human caecum. In this descent, the colon lies before it; the biliary duct, hepatic artery and nerve, vena portarum, and emulgent vessels, are behind it; the liver, gall-bladder, and right kidney, are on its right side, and the pancreas is on the left. This gut makes several turns in this progress; for it is raised into a convexity forwards, where it passes before the vessels of the liver. Immediately after it bends backwards, and to the right side, till it ap- proaches the right kidney; and then turns forward, and a little to the left, in its course towards the great sac of the co- lon. The duodenum then makes a considerable curve to the left side, where it is involved in cellular substance, which may be looked upon as the common root of the mesentery and mesocolon.