OF THE LIVER. 557 in such a situation an abscess should take place within it, the contents of that'abscess might be discharged into the general cavity of the belly, into the sacs of the pleurae, or even into the lungs, or into the stomach, duodenum, or colon, or they may be discharged externally. Though the term liver-coloured be employed in common language, yet no very definite idea is affixed to the word ; few persons agree perfectly in their ideas on this subject. An accurate idea of the colour of the healthy liver can on- ly be gained by inspection of the liver immediately after death, and whilst the body is warm. Authors differ very much in their descriptions of the colour of the healthy liver \ some have described it as being like old mahogany in colour^ but there are infinite varieties as to the colour of this wood. Others have described it as being of a mottled colour, yellow and red. The engraving, which I published from the liver of a criminal whose bbody was opened about an hour after death, represents the liver of a deep pink colour. The liver has always been described as varying in colour, according to the quantity of blood contained within its vessels ; but there is little difference as to the colour of the liver of an animal killed by suspension, and of one that has been bled to death. The liver of the dog is not of the same co- lour as the human liver; it is much more of the purple hue. I have examined with considerable attention the livers of se- veral animals immediately after they had been killed, and have invariably remarked, that they were of a darker purple colour than the human liver. Of the Coats of the Liver. The liver has two coats. The outer is derived from the peritonaeum ; it is very thin, transparent, easily torn, and vas- cular, and is lubricated by a serous fluid, which gives it a shining surface. It does not cover the posterior part of the liver, nor the excavation for the gall-bladder, vena cava, nor the fissures in the concave surface of the liver. The internal surface of the peritoneal coat is irregular, and is intimately attached to the proper coat of the liver, which