ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 148 process stands out from the os petrosum, and a more obtuse rising in the occipital bone, between which the partition is stretched. The lateral sinus passes through the posterior and larger portion of this partition ; and the eighth pair of nerves and accessory nerve pass through the smaller and anterior portion. The occipital bone is among the thickest of the cranium, and is stronger above, where it has no other defence than the common teguments. But the under part of this bone, in which the hemispheres of the cerebellum are lodged, is so very thin, as to be diaphanous in many skulls. The occipital bone is joined above to the ossa parietalia and triquetra, when present, at the lambdoid suture; laterally by the temporal bones, by the addimenta of the lambdoid suture; below to the sphenoid bone, by the end of its cuneiform process *, in the same way that epiphyses and their bones are joined : for, in children, a ligamentous cartilage is interposed between the occipital and sphenoid bones, which gradually turns thinner, as each of the bones advances, till their fibres at last run into each other ; and, about sixteen or eighteen years of age, the union of these two bones becomes so intimate, that a separa- tion cannot be made without violence. The os occipitis is joined by a double articulation to the first vertebra of the neck, each condyle being received into a superior oblique process of that vertebra. This bone is not often fractured, the upper and more ex- posed being of considerable thickness. It sometimes has hap- pened, that the cuneiform process of this bone has been broken and beaten upwards, in consequence of a person carrying a heavy weight falling upon the upper part of the head. In an infant born at the full time, this bone consists of four parts. The first of these is larger than the other three, is of a triangular shape, and constitutes all the part of the bone above the great foramen. Generally fissures appear in the upper part and sides of this triangular bone, when all the • In the adult, the occipital and sphenoid bones are firmly fixed to each other; and hence Soemmering has described them under the name of Os spheno-occi- pitale.