elements of anatomy. 480 lare, are necessarily shorter than those of the under jaw. The roots are somewhat of a conical figure : thus the pressure falls upon the sides, and not upon the apex of the bone, where the bloodvessels and nerves enter the tooth. The roots of the grinding teeth diverge from each other : hence the body of these teeth is supported in part by the al- veolar process, and the pressure divided during manducation. The neck or collar is grasped by the socket, and also by the gum; and when this has been destroyed by scurvy, sali- vation, or other causes, the teeth frequently fall out. That part of the teeth above the gum, is covered by a very smooth, hard, white, and insensible substance, in texture and appearance like porcellanous shells, called Enamel, which be- comes gradually thinner towards the neck of the tooth ; or that part of the tooth which is exposed to the greatest degree of attrition, has the thickest coating of enamel. Many savage nations have brown or black teeth, from their custom of chew- ing Areka nut or Betel nut; and, according to Mr Maksdex, to do this the more effectually, they abrade the enamel, that the tooth may more perfectly receive the empyreumatic oil of the coco-nut shell. The enamel is not of an uniform thick- ness in different teeth, nor in every part of the same tooth. It is thicker towards the upper surface than in other parts of the tooth, where the teeth touch and rub on each other du- ring mastication. The fibres of the enamel are very small, parallel to each other, and perpendicular to the surface of the tooth, not only on the flat part of the tooth, but also on the sides of the base. By such an arrangement of the fibres of the enamel, it is not apt to scale off; and therefore is well calculated to re- sist attrition. The enamel is sometimes deposited irregularly on the surface of the teeth, owing to irregularities in the bony parts of the teeth over which it is deposited. The ena- mel of the teeth is not an organised substance; it has not its proper bloodvessels ; and was not tinged of a red colour, by giving an animal madder; though the bony part of the teeth, and all the other bones of the animal, had acquired a deep crimson colour.