545 OF THE LARGElt INTESTINES. truded by the contraction of its muscular fibres; after which the rectum is retracted by a different portion of the levator ani and transversalis perinasi, and by the longitudinal fibres of the rectum; and the anus is shut by its sphincter muscle. Dr Paley makes the following excellent observations on the sphincters. “ The regulated degree of contractile force with which they are endowed, sufficient for retention, yet vin- cible when requisite, together with their ordinary state of ac- tual contraction, by means of which their dependence upon the will is not constant but occasional, gives them a constitu- tion, of which the convenience is inestimable. This semi-vo- luntary character is exactly such as suits with the wants and functions of the animal Every part of the rectum is not equally distensible : that part of it which is behind the sphincter ani, may be extended into a considerable sac, in the transverse direction. This sac is only obvious in the adult, being formed by the retention and accumulation of the faeces. This is very conducive to our convenience. Thus we are enabled to choose a fit time and place for discharging the contents of the rectum : But if the individual does not obey the warning, and the faeces are accu- mulated, the muscles act involuntarily, and expel the faeces. The lower end of the rectum is somewhat contracted, serving to assist the sphincter ani in retaining the faeces. The rec- tum, at its lower extremity, is surrounded by fat cellular sub- stance and mucous follicles. The particular direction of the intestinum rectum should be remembered by the surgeon, while he is introducing a clyster-pipe, otherwise the patient may be materially hurt; and, at the same time, the form of the pipe should be ac- accommodated to that of the rectum, and also by its meso- rectum. The rectum is fixed down in its situation, by the perito- naeum, which is reflected from the upper and back part of the bladder of urine. A moTe particular account of the muscles of the anus will be given under the head Muscles of the Organs of Generation. vol. r. m m