EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE OF ABDOMEN. ' 393 or eight inches down the thigh. This membrane, in some cases of scrotal hernia, attains a very considerable thickness; in others, it adheres so intimately to the hernial sac, that it is impossible to separate the one from the other. Of the Costa- Abdominalis, or External Oblique Muscle of the Abdomen. This muscle originates by eight, sometimes by nine heads, which are, in some measure, like to right angles, from the eight or nine lowest ribs, and not at a great distance from the cartilaginous parts of the ribs. The upper head adheres to the origins of the serratus anticus major, and the lower to the latissimus dorsi. All the heads adhere to the neighbouring intercostal muscles. The different heads of the oblique muscle are greater in breadth than in thickness. The fibres of the muscle proceed obliquely forwards and downwards, and ter- minate in a thin tendinous aponeurosis. The larger tendi- nous fibres of this muscle are sometimes, though rarely, sepa- rated from each other. The upper part of the muscle passes transversely across the body, and is connected by its tendon to the lower part of the larger pectoral muscle. Where the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the subjacent muscle, there is a curved white line visible, which has been called Linea Semilunaris. The tendons of the external oblique muscles of opposite sides unite with each other, and form a distinct white line in the middle of the body, which extends from the Cartilago- Ensiformis to the pubes. The linea alba has therefore been described as the place where the one external oblique muscle is inserted into the other. The larger fibres of the tendinous aponeurosis attached to the lower portion of the external oblique muscle, descend obliquely inwards and downwards; are disposed in a parallel manner in respect to each other; and, between these, there is a much thinner tendinous substance. The larger tendinous fibres of the external oblique muscJc, are united together by means of many thin tendinous fibres,