OF THE THORAX. 107 The bones of the thorax are the twelve dorsal vertebra, be- hind, the ribs on the sides, and the sternum before. The ribs, or costa *, arc long crooked bones placed at the side of the chest, and obliquely downwards, in respect to the back-bone. Their number is generally tv/elve on each side ; though frequently eleven or thirteen have been found-J-. Some- times the ribs are found preternaturally conjoined or divided J. The ribs are concave and smooth internally, but convex ex- ternally, that they might resist that part of the pressure of the atmosphere which is not balanced by the air within the lungs during inspiration. The ribs are commonly divided into 7 true and 5 false, or into vertebral and sterno-vertebral. The breadth of the ribs differs very much in different per- sons, and in different nations. In very tall men I have no- ticed that the ribs are of much greater proportional breadth than in shorter persons ; and in some of the inhabitants of the north, the ribs are remarkable for their breadth, whilst those of the New Hollander are unusually slender. No more space is left between the ribs than is sufficient for the intercostal muscles, and the ends of the ribs next the vertebra? are rounder than they are after these bones have advanced forwards, when they become flatter and broader, and have an upper and lower edge, each of which is made rough by the action of the intercostal muscles, inserted into them. The muscles between the ribs being of nearly equal force, and equally stretched, keep the broken ends of these bones, when fractured, from crossing each other. The upper edge of the ribs is more obtuse and rounder than the lower, which is depressed on its internal side by a long fossa, for lodging the intercostal vessels and nerves ; on each side of which there is a ridge to which the intercostal muscles are fixed. The fossa is not observable, however, at either end of the ribs; for at the posterior or root, the vessels ,Tltevfi, 7Ti^iTivnc, evrofii. 1 Rioiak Comment, dc Ossib. cap. 19. Makchettj, cap. 9. CowrEii Expli- cat. tab. 93. and 94, Moroagn. Advers. anal, X See Trad. d’Osteolog. 141.