ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 172 ■where this plate rises, it runs up broad on the inside of the tuberosity of the maxillary bone, to form a considerable share x)f the sides of the maxillary sinus, and to close up the space be- tween the sphenoid and the great bulge of the maxillary bone, where there would otherwise be a. large slit opening into the nostrils *. Dr Monro 2dus, in his Lectures, used to observe, that “ some anatomists, irom observing the situation of the pa- late-bone, pretend to explain, what is true in practice, that dis- eases, the venereal for instance, after affecting the palate, readi- ly fall upon the orbit. But rather than attribute this to the ex- tent of the palate-bone, we are to look for a sameness of the membrane or of the bone ; for we find that certain membranes and bones are more readily affected by diseases than others ■j*.'” From the middle internal side of this thin plate, a cross ridge placed on a similar ridge of the maxillary bone is extended; on it, the back part of the os spongiosum inferius rests. Alopg the outside of this plate, the perpendicular fossa made by the palate nerve is observable. At the upper part of this nasal plate, the palate bone di- vides into two orbitar processes ; between which and the body of the sphenoid bone, that hole is formed, which is the last of the holes common to the sphenoid bone. Sometimes this hole is wholly formed in the os palati, by a cross plate going from the one orbitar process to the other. A nerve, artery, and vein, belonging to the nostrils, pass here. The anterior of the two orbitar processes is the largest, and has its fore- part contiguous to the back-part of the maxillary sinus, and its upper surface appears in the bottom of the orbit, behind the back part of the os maxillare and planum. It lias cells behind resembling those of die ethmoid bone, to which it is contiguous; it is placed on the aperture of the sinus sphenoi- dalis, so as to leave only a round hole at its upper fore part The other part of die orbitar process is extended along the internal side of the upper back part of the maxillary tubero- sity, to the base of the sphenoid bone, between the root of * Albin. de Ossib. sect. 88. •}• Sec Copy of his Lecture*, written by Thorxburx.