566 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Of the Inter nal Organization of the Liver. The liver is of a very different texture from any of the other glands of the human body, and is more easily torn, in consequence of external violence. I have met with three in- stances of rupture of the liver, which had been occasioned by external violence. The patients survived but a few hours, and died from the great loss of blood. On tearing the sub- stance of the liver, or on pressing a portion of it between the fingers, a number of small hard bodies, called Acini, are per- ceptible to the touch, which are of a lighter red colour than the rest of the liver; and these are united to each other by cellular substance. The form and size of these acini, which are the sources from which the biliary ducts take their origin, vary in different animals. Those of the human body are about the size of a millet-seed. Ruysch has supposed that they are made up of a plexus of very minute vessels; and, on the other hand, Malpighi has affirmed that they are hollow, of which, however, he has not given any distinct evidence. I have seen five or six examples of a very peculiar disease, by which the acini of the liver are rendered very conspicuous, in consequence of having attained an unnatural size, of which Plate I. conveys a more distinct idea than language can com- municate. Since the above was written, Dr Brewster has been so po- lite as to examine the liver by his microscope, and has favoured me with the subjoined remarks. “ The liver (of a lamb) seems to be composed of two dif- ferent substances, the one being whiter than the other. The darkest portions seem most transparent, and appear to consist of minuter particles than the other parts. The bloodvessels seem to run almost always through the whiter portions. “ These two substances seem to have no organised struc- ture, but to resemble a coagnlum of particles. « When a fresh piece of liver is squeezed between two plates of glass, part of it is pressed, as it were, into a fluid, in which the particles are seen floating.