K L E M E N T S O F A N A T O M V a40 extremity ol the clavicle is thrown forwards or backwards, and when in the latter situation, it presses on the gullet, and creates the most urgent symptoms. Of the Scapula. The Scapula, or shoulder-blade, is of a triangular shape, situated on the outside of the ribs, with its longest side, called its base, towards the spinal processes of the vertebrae, and with the angle at the upper part of this side about three inches, and the lower angle at a greater distance from these processes. The thin ends of the serratus anticus major, and subscapularis muscles, are interposed between the scapulae and the ribs: But as this bone advances forwards, its distance from the ribs increases. The upper or the superior costa of the scapula is nearly horizontal, and parallel with the second rib. The lower or the inferior costa, is extended obliquely from the third to the eighth rib. Such is the situation of this bone, when the arms are not employed. The inferior angle of the scapula is very acute ; the upper one is near to a right angle; and what is called the anterior, does not deserve the name, for the two sides do not meet to form an angle. The body of this bone is concave towards the ribs, and convex be- hind. The scapula at its posterior part is divided into two unequal portions, by the large spine that rises from its convex surface behind. A. process stands out from the fore part of the upper side; which, from its imaginary resemblance to a crow’s beak, is named coracoides *. The base, which is tipped with cartilage in a young sub- ject, is not all straight: For above the spine, it runs obliquely forwards to the superior angle, lest by the projection of it backwards, the muscles and skin had been injured. At the root of the spine, on the back-part of the base, there is a tri- angular plain surface, which is formed by the pressure of the lower fibres of the trapezius. Below this, the edge of the sca- pula is scabrous and rough, for the insertion of the serratus major anticus and rhomboid muscles. Anchoroides, sigmoides, digitalis ancistroides.