OF THE LARGER INTESTINES. 541 measures about four or five inches in diameter; and in gra- minivorous animals it is of still greater diameter. This portion of the intestinal canal is extremely liable to disease. The food within the caput coecum coli is out of its direct route, and is often arrested for a time in this situation. Extraneous bodies often stick in this part of the intestine, and prove a cause of the formation of alvine concretions. In the Museum of the University of Edinburgh, there is a large collection of these substances, of which I formerly published a full account *. These concretions are various in point of size. Some are not larger than a garden-pea ; but others are as large as an orange ; and some attain a much greater bulk, weighing three or four pounds. The smaller concretions are of a yellow colour, of an oval or rounded figure. The larger are more irregular, consisting of a number of lobes; and some of them seem to be com- posed of a congeries of smaller concretions, and are covered by a white crust, which seems to be deposited in successive layers. There are commonly two or three concretions found with- in the human intestines; but sometimes a greater number. Some alvine concretions are porous, somewhat like dried sponge, and composed of fibres intimately interwoven with each other. Some of the concretions, when divided, exhibit lamellte a- bout two lines in thickness, and a central nucleus; but, in others, there is neither a nucleus nor lamellae. There are small cavities within some alvine concretions. Since my account of these concretions was published, Dr Maecet examined with great attention one of these substan- ces, which I gave to my pupil Dr Silveira, and has stated that the fibres which constitute the larger proportion of the concretion are those of the beard of the oat *J*. In justice to Dr Davy’s acumen, it is proper that I should state, that about a year, (viz. in 1812,) after Professor ■ Vide Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, &c. f Mircxt on Calculi, 2d edit. p. 139-