522 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The fourth coat of the stomach is a mucous membrane, termed the Villous Coat. Dr Carmichael Smyth, in his very valuable paper on the different kinds of inflammation, has observed, that there is some variety in the appearance and structure of the mucous membranes; and, on that fact, explains the greater frequencv of peculiar organic derangements in some than in other mucous membranes. Thus the inflammation of the villous coat of the intestines is more common than that of the stomach. There is an obvious difference in the appearance of the mucous lining of the stomach and intestines. This coat is of a redder co- lour than that of the intestines : from what I have re- marked in the stomachs of criminals I examined a few hours only after death, it has a reddish-brown colour; and there are a number of spots on it, evidently formed by extravasated blood, and in which the vessels are disposed in a star-like di- rection. The red-brown colour of this coat does not go off for years,—a circumstance which has escaped the notice of au- thors. I have a specimen in which the red colour of this coat is still very obvious, though that portibn of the stomach has been preserved in spirits for ten years. Dr Yellowly has justly observed, “ That, in the villous coat of the stomach, appearances of vascular fulness, whether florid or dark coloured, in distinct vessels, or in extravasations of various sizes are not to be regarded as unequivocal marks of disease. They occur in every variety of degree and cha- racter, under every circumstance of previous indisposition, and in situations where the most healthy aspect of the organ may be fairly expected According to Mr Hunter, the villous coat of the cardiac extremity of the stomach of criminals, is more or less eroded, in cases of sudden death ; but this is an observation which is liable to many exceptions. It has been supposed by some anatomists, that the stomach has a cuticular lining. Whilst examining the structure of the human gullet, preparatory to the publication of my Thesis, I discovered that that tube has * Medico-Chir. Trans, of London, vol. iv.