568 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the divided vessels of tile liver ; but, by pressure, it stopped, in the course of 3 or 4 minutes. The incision in the abdomi- nal parietes was carefully sewed up. For a few hours after the experiment, the animal seemed uneasy ; but, after that pe- riod, it took its food as before. I kept it for five weeks, during which period it seemed in perfect health; its digestion was not impaired, and its stools were of the usual colour, quantity, and consistence. A similar experiment was made upon another rabbit, and with a similar result. I kept this animal upwards of 12 weeks. Upon examining the abdomen, the cut portion of the liver was found firmly glued to the parietes of the abdomen, by means of coagulable lymph. Disease also demonstrates that every part of the liver is not essential to the functions of the animal economy. Thus we occasionally meet with large abscesses in the liver; and, upon their contents being discharged, some patients have for years enjoyed a tolerable degree of health. In the same manner, those worms called Hydatids, have been found, upon dissec- tion, to fill a considerable portion of the right lobe of the liver, whei'e, during life, no one symptom had occurred which led to a suspicion of their existence. Amongst several such in- stances which have fallen under my own notice, the following case is a striking illustration of what has been alleged. A dragoon, a stout active and robust young man, to all ap- pearance in the most perfect health, betted that he would drink a number of glasses of whisky in a given time. He did so, but died in a short time thereafter. The colonel of the regiment suspecting poison, desired the surgeon of the re- giment to examine with great care the body of the deceased, which was accordingly done. The only morbid appearance discovered upon dissection, was a large bag of hydatids, which filled by far the greater part of the right lobe of the liver. Of the Nerves of the Liver. The liver is supplied with numerous nerves from the semi- lunar-solar ganglion, formed by the conjoined sympathetic and eighth pairs of nerves.