ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 184 1 he form of the skull is determined in a certain degree by the soft parts; in proof of which, the internal table of the skull takes the exact impression of the convolutions of the brain and cerebellum, of the glands of Pacchioni, of the ramifica- tions of the arteries of the dura mater ; and its external sur- face displays impressions of the action of the external mus- cles, as well as traces of the form of the features. The natural form of the skull has been explained in two different ways by anatomists. According to some authors, the brain serves as a mould on which the skull is formed ; but according to others, the skull serves not only to limit the growth of the brain, but also to determine its peculiar form. Both of these opinions are to a certain extent just; but I ap- prehend the former has less influence upon the form of the head than the latter. Let us consider, Jirst, what facts shew that the form of the skull is independent of the brain ; and, secondly, Let us direct our attention to those facts which prove that the form of the skull is modified by the form of the brain. The skull is so constructed as to protect the brain in the best possible manner. This is referable to the arched form of the frontal bone, to the arched form of the upper portions of the parietal bones, and the arched form of the occipital bone, to which the internal spines of the frontal and occipital bones so essentially contribute ; and also the very singular manner in which the frontal and parietal bones are connected, which cannot be the result of any peculiar form of the brain. How could the brain make the frontal bone rest upon the pa- rietal bone, at the upper part of the head P Or how could internal pressure make the parietal bones take advantage of the arch formed by the frontal bone, at the sides of the head, where the bones are in danger of being beaten inwards by ex- ternal violence? There are internal spines connected with the frontal and occipital bones, for the sake of additional security, but no cor- respondence in the external form of the skull. There is also, "for the sake of additional security, a large and prominent