486 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. distinguish them, by remarking the number of small holes at their points, which determine the number of roots each tooth ought to be reckoned to have *. Of the Formation of the First Set of Teeth. The teeth are formed upon pulps, which are contained with- in the alveolar processes of the jaw. Upon examining the foe- tus in utero, about the fourth or fifth month after conception, we find that the alveolar processes are not completely formed. There is a large canal in the jaw, which, at different places, is impressed by membranous bags, called The Capsules of the Teeth, which contain the pulps and rudiments of the bodies of these organs. Even at this very early period, this canal is not of a very uniform breadth. It is adapted to the teeth, and therefore considerably broader at the back than at the fore part. In the bottom of this groove, the internal maxillary bloodvessels and nerves are disposed, which afterwards are lodged in a distinct canal. In a short time, there are a num- ber of ridges which extendfrom the bottom and inner sides of this canal, and which form sockets for the teeth. Tht^e sockets extend very quickly, and contract at their upper parts; so that, at the time of birth, there is found only be- neath the gum a small transverse fissure. In consequence of this structure, the teeth within the jaw are not injured while the child is sucking. The alveolar processes of the grinding teeth are situated immediately before the tuberosities of the upper jaw, and the coronoid processes of the under jaw. The pulps of the teeth are involved in capsules, which con- sist of two membranes, in both of which there is a great num- ber of bloodvessels. The external membrane adheres to the gum, and the internal to the basis of the pulp. The pulps of the teeth are at first of a gelatinous consist- ence, nearly of the figure of the tooth, and adhere to the in- ner surfaces of the gums. The pulp of each tooth is con- tained in its proper capsule, which is shaped like the tooth, * The above is the description of the teeth by Dr Monro primus.