OF LUXATION OF THE THIGH-BONE. 2G9 condyle of the thigh-bone and the upper part of the fibula. Round this lower end of the thigh-bone there are large holes, into which the ligaments of the joint are fixed, and bloodvessels pass to the internal substance of the bone. All the processes of the femur are cartilaginous in new-born children, and afterwards become small apophyses, with large epiphyses. The thigh-bone is articulated above with the acetabulum of the ossa innominata, within which it can be moved to every side; but is restrained in its motion outwards, by the high brim of the cavity, and by the round ligament. The head of the thigh-bone may be dislocated in four dif- ferent directions, backwards, or on the dorsum of the os ilium; or downwards and inwards, then the head of the bone is lodged on the foramen thyroideum, and may be felt in the upper and inner part of the thigh ; or the head of the bone is forced upwards and forwards on the ossa pubis, where it may be felt above the level of the crural arch, and on the dial side of the femoral artery and vein ; or the head of the bone may be thrown backwards on the ischiatic notch. The body of this bone has little or no rotatory motion, though the head moves commonly ai'ound its own axis, be- cause the oblique progress of the neck and head from the bone is such, that the rotatory motion of the head can only bring the body of the bone forwards and backwards : Nor can the head be brought to a straight direction with its body; so far, however, as the head can move within the cavity backwards and forwards, the rest of the bone may have a partial rotation. The os femoris is articulated below to the tibia and rotula. There is considerable difficulty in distinguishing between a luxation and fracture of the neck of this bone. Sir A. Cooper has observed, “ The fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone may be confounded with the dislocation of the os femoris, upon the dorsum of the os ilii, into the ischiatic notch, and upon the pubes, as in all of these dislocations the limb is shorter. From the two former, it may be distinguish- ed by the eversion of the foot, and by the mobility of the limb in fracture; and from the latter, by the ball of the os