OF THE FOltM OF THE SKULL. 207 The Turkish skull is very round, which has been imputed bv Vesalius to the early use of the turban. SffiMMERiNG however has informed us, that he had seen at Vienna several skulls of Turks, which were of a cuboid form. In my museum there are three or four skulls of Frenchmen, which are nearly similar in form: they are shorter than those of the natives of Britain. But, in the Museum of Natural History, the sixty skulls sent from the catacombs of Paris, are widely different in size and form. Indeed they were selected on account of their differences in form, and as calculated to illustrate the theory of Gall and Spukzheim. The skull of a Norwegian in my collection is very singular in form ; the bones of the face are very large, and not unlike those of some Negroes. In the Museum of Natural History, there are six skulls of Hindoos ; in that of the Phrenological Society there are twelve skulls of the same nation; I possess two Hindoo skulls, and two Gentoo skulls * *. The bony part of the skull is generally white, not at all greasy, and the skull is thin and light. The most striking character of all these skulls is their small size; and they are well proportioned in their several parts. The bones of the face are not much impressed by the muscles, small, and finely formed; the orbits and nose are not surrounded by those thick edges which wre observe in the Negro skull, and in that from Australasia and Van Die- man’s Land. The forehead is proportionally smaller to the hinder part of the skull than in the European, The temporal fossae are small, and the mark of the origin of the aponeurosis of these muscles is low down upon the head. The bones of the face are very small and narrow, except- ing the bones of the nose. The squamous parts of the tem- poral bone are small, but the mastoid processes of the same' bones are rather disproportionally large. The orbits are larger than in the European skull, but the cavity of the nose is smaller. The alveolar processes of the upper jaw are very small and narrow. The facial line is nearly straight *f*. * For the two last I am indebted to Sir A. Hai.lid.iy. * Vide measurements in Table II. Nos. 6, C, 7, 8.