ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 186 In some monsters, a great portion of the upper part of the frontal bone is awanting, and also a part of the parietal bones. Ossa Parietalia. The ossa PAiHETALiA, or bones serving as walls to the ence- phalon, are of an irregular square form ; their upper and fore side being longer than the one behind or below. The infe- rior side is a concave arch; the middle part receiving the up- per round part of the temporal bone. The angle formed by this upper side, and the foie one, is so extended, as to have the appearance of a process. The external surface of each os parietale is convex. Upon it, somewhat below the middle height of the bone, there is a transverse arched ridge, of a whiter colour generally than any other part of the bone; from which a great many converging furrows, like so many radii drawn from a circumference to- wards a centre, occasioned by the pressure of the fibres of the temporal muscle, are very obvious, more particularly in the skull of a Negro now mentioned. Below these, we observe, near the semicircular edges, a great many risings and depres- sions, which are joined to like inequalities on the inside of the temporal bone, to form the squamous suture. The temporal bone may therefore serve as a buttress, to prevent the lower side of the parietal from starting outwards when its upper part is pressed or struck *. Near to the sagittal suture, there is commonly a small hole, through which a vein passes from teguments of the head to the longitudinal sinus. Sometimes I have seen a branch of the temporal artery pass through this hole, which was distri- buted on the upper part of the falx, and the dura mater, which frequently joins with the branches of the arteries of the dura mater. In several skulls, one of the ossa parietalia has not this hole; in others, there are two in one bone ; and in some, not one in either. Most frequently this hole is through both tables ; at other times, the external table only is perfo- rated. The knowledge of the course of these vessels, may be • Hunauld in M6in. dc f Acad, des Sciences, 1730.