LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 331 Sometimes this ligament is double. Anatomists have supposed that this hole is covered by li- gament, in order to prevent, the vessels which pass through it, being injured by friction during the movements of the sca- pula. There is a ligament, somewhat of a conical figure, and hence called conoid, which is in part connected with the last named ligament, and by the summit of the cone with the co- racoid process of the scapula, and which is fixed near to the junction of the clavicle with the scapula. Upon cutting into the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint, it is found to be of unequal thickness: it is much thinner below than elsewhere ; and, besides, in that situation, it is not strengthened by the tendons of the neighbouring muscles. Ligaments of the Elbow-Joint. The capsular ligament at the elbow-joint is much less ex- tensive, than that at the shoulder-joint: it is connected with the lower end of the os humeri, and fixed around the edge of the articular surface of the ulna, and also to the coronary li- gament of the radius. On each side of the capsular ligaments there are lateral ligaments, the internal, or liumero-idnar, passing between the internal condyle of the os humeri, and the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna, and the external, or liumero-radial, which is larger than the other, extending between the external condyle of the os humeri, and the accessory ligament. Besides these lateral ligaments, there are a few scattered li- gamentous fibres passing across the capsular ligament, in dif- ferent directions, especially in the posterior part of the joint. Under these ligaments, the synovial membrane is placed. This joint only admits of flexion and extension: when the joint is bent, the lateral ligaments are relaxed; when, on the other hand, the joint is extended, the lateral ligaments are put on the stretch, and also the capsular ligament; and it may not be improper to add, that, in this position, this joint is most frequently dislocated by a fall, the hands being stretch-