OF THE SYNOVIA. 321 These fimbriae seem, therefore, to be ducts like to those of the urethra, which prepare a mucilaginous liquor without the assistance of any knotty or glandular organ. While, by the pressure which the motion of the joints or tendons makes upon their sides, they throw out their liquor in greatest quan- tity when it is most needed, perhaps the secretion, as well as excretion, of the liquor, is promoted, as in the salivary glands, by motion ; and as the extremities of these fringes hang loose into the cavity of the joint, their liquor cannot be pressed back into them by the motion of the joint. Upon the whole, the synovia seems to be furnished by in- visible exhalant arteries, by the ducts of the fimbriae, and by oil exuding from the adipose follicles by passages not yet dis- covered. We may suppose these passages to be very minute, not only because they are not to be seen with the microscope, but because the oily matter is so well incorporated with the mucilaginous as not to be distinguishable, even with the mi- croscope, in the form of globules. As the fat seems to be mixed and incorporated With the mucilage in these sacs, it would, perhaps, be more proper to name them vesicas imguinoscv, than bursas mucosae. 10. Having fully considered the structure of the bursae and ligaments in a sound state, we shall next direct our atten- tion to the effects upon them of use, accident, operation and disease; by which we shall be more fully convinced of the sameness of their structure and properties. In old persons, I have frequently found a hole worn iri the membrane of a bursa and lieament which were conti- o guous, particularly at the joint of the thigh-bone, by which a communication was opened between the cavity of a bursa and that of the ligament of a joint; yet no complaint of pain or stiffness of the joint had been made by persons during life. This could not well have happened if the liquor of the bursas had been essentially different from that of the joints. 11. I have repeatedly observed an effusion of fluid into the cavities of the joints and of the bursae from the same causes, or in consequence of the same diseases. VOL. i. X