OF THE AXIS OF THE PELVIS. SI of the upper aperture : labour, therefore, is more difficult in the human race than in inferior animals. The pelvis varies much as to its size, and the proportions of its different parts in different women, in the inhabitants of different nations, and also at different periods of life. In the standard pelvis, a line drawn-front the sacrum to the pubis, measures rather more than 4 inches, from one os ilium to the other 5 inches and | ; and in the lower part, or inferior aperture of the pelvis, these proportions are reversed ; for a line from the symphysis pubis, to the os coccygis, al- lowing an inch for the retraction of that bone, is equal to 5 inches. The standard pelvis is about 3 ^ inches from the brim to the tuberosity of the os ischium, 6 inches behind, and the depth of the symphysis pubis is about 1^ inch. In order to throw light on the measurements of the female and male pelvis, I selected several pelves of both sexes, which I considered to be very well formed, and also several that are very much deformed ; and I have subjoined a tabular view of the measurements, taken in different directions, by my excel- lent assistant Mr Mackenzie. All the measurements were taken from inside to inside *. In the subjoined Table, I have given the measurements only of the pelvis of one Negress, as the other I possess, which was also sent to me by Professor Horner of Philadel- phia, corresponds, in all respects, with it. It may be proper also to state, that the pelvis of a Negro, which the same gentleman sent to me, is rather less than that in the Table. • In my Outlines of Anatomy, I published many valuable observations on the pelves of women of different nations, by that justly celebrated anatomist Dr P. Camper, which are illustrated by a diagram drawn by himself, to which I refer the reader. Mr Mackenzie, from his zeal to communicate information, measured, after the types of this sheet were set up, five female pelves, in the possession of a friend, which he found to measure somewhat less than those of the subjoined Table. Dr Hull’s tablns as to the distorted pelvis merit the particular attention of the reader. VOL. I. F