173 OF THE OSSA PALATE the processus azygos and the pterygoid process. “ When the matter of an ulcer of the internal canthus of the eye eats through the ligamentous membrane, which connects the edge of the orbit to the eye, it naturally falls to the under part of the apex of the conical orbit, where the orbitar process of the palate-bone is ; and once it is rendered carious, the caries proceeds downwards in the same bone to the part of it which forms the palate, and erodes it, and the membrane that covers it * " The square part of this palate-bone, and its pterygoid process, are firm and strong, with some cancelli; but the nasal plate and orbitar processes are very thin and brittle. The palate-bones are joined to the maxillary, by the fore- edge of the square part of the palate-bone, by the transverse palate suture : By their thin nasal plates, and by part of their orbitar processes, to the same bones, by the palato-maxillary sutures : By their pterygoid processes, and back-part of the nasal plates, to the sphenoid bone, by the sphenoid suture : By the transverse ridges of the nasal plates, to the ossa spongiosa inferiora, by contact; hence frequently there is an intimate union of the substance of these bones in old skulls : By the orbitar processes, to the ossa plana and cellulae ethmoideae, by the ethmoid suture : To the body of the sphenoid bone, by the sphenoid suture: By the internal edge of the square bones to each other, by the longitudinal palate suture ; and by their nasal spines to the vomer, by the spinous suture.- ' These bones are very complete in a new-born infant, the nasal plates being then thicker and stronger than in adults ;■ but there are no orbitar processes, as in the bones of adults. From what has been stated, the cause is obvious, why the eyes are so much affected in ulcers of the palate, as to be of- ten attended with blindness, which frequently happens in an ill-managed lues venerea ; or why, on the other hand, the palate suffers from an eegjjlops j*. * These Observations occur in my Grandfather’s Commentary on his Osteology. 7 Hoffman, in Ephemeral. German, cent. 1. and 2. observ. 135.