OF THE BOXES. 23 great deal of exercise, and more especially in boxers, the emi- nences and depressions of the bones are very conspicuous. The thickness of the bones would seem to depend on the nourishment. Hence the natives of Australasia and Van Die- man’s Land, who were ignorant as to the means of raising the necessary quantity of nourishment, were tall, but very slender. My friend Sir John Jamison sent me some years ago the ske- leton of a young man, a native of New South Wales. The bones are rather smaller than those of females of the higher orders in this country: the chest and pelvis are very narrow, but they are strongly marked. If the cavities, or depressions, are deep, with large brims, authors name them cotylce * i if superficial, glcnte or glenoid. These general classes are again divided into several species : Of which pits are small roundish channels, sunk perpendicu- larly into the bone : furrozes are long narrow canals, formed in the surface ; niches, or notches, small breaches in the bone ; sinuosities, broad but superficial depressions without brims; fossae, large deep cavities, which are not equally surrounded by high brims ; sinuses, large cavities within the substance of the bones, with small apertures; foramina, or holes, canals that pierce quite through the substance of the bones. When this last sort of cavity is extended any long way within a bone, the middle part retains the name of canal, and its ends are called holes. The eminences and hollows of the bones give insertion to the muscles and ligaments, or form surfaces of articulation. Ih us the insertions of the muscles are further removed from the axis of the bone, and their power of moving it thereby in- creased. By the eminences to which the ligaments are fixed, these are removed to a greater distance, and greater security is given. The cavities on the surfaces of the bones, (with the excep- tion of the articular cavities,) are intended for the reception of Act-tabula, pixidcs, buccellaj.