01*' THE OMENTA. 601 The peritonaeum passes off double from the concave part of the liver to the upper part, or lesser curvature, of the sto- mach, forming what has been called the omentum minus, or omentum hepato-gastricum. This is bounded on the right side by the large vessels which carry the blood into the liver, and which are said to be enclosed in the capsule of Glisson ; and on the left side by the oesophagus and upper orifice of the stomach. The two layers of the omentum minus separate from each other when they reach the stomach, and give an external coat to that organ; then reunite; and, by their continuation, form the anterior part of the greater omentum. The greater omentum hangs down from the greater curva- ture of the stomach, and is fixed to the colon, and therefore called omentum majus gastro-colicum: And as a portion of the omentum majus extends farther to the right side than the stomach, following the colon, that portion of it has been col- led omentum colicum dextrum. The layers of the great omentum separate from each other, and include the colon ; hence that part of the omentum which hangs from the stomach and colon is quadruple. The layers of the omentum minus separate from each other, on its right side, to inclose the vena portae, hepatic artery, biliary ducts and the nerves of the liver, or to form what has been called the capsule of Glisson : and hence, behind these vessels, a hole large enough to admit a finger readily is formed, which was first described by Winslow, and has been called the foramen of Winslow. When the finger, therefore, is introduced into this hole, it passes behind the omentum hepato-gastricum ; and if, next, the finger be turned downwards, it passes downwards behind the stomach, and then behind the fore part of the great omen- tum ; and then downwards behind it, to the upper part of the colon and mesocolon. This hole, therefore, leads to a great sac behind the lesser omentum, then behind the stomach and omentum gastro-coli- cum ; and the colon and mesocolon form the bottom of the sac ; and at the back part of it the pancreas is placed. u q VOL. I.