or THE SCAPULA. £>41 The back-part of the inferior angle is made smooth by the latissimus dorsi passing over it. This muscle also alters the direction of the inferior costa some way forwards from this angle. The inferior costa in its progress forwards becomes thicker, and is excavated for receiving the teres minor, and there is also a depression in the under part of it for the sub- scapulary muscle ; and between the two a ridge with a small depression appears, where the long head of the triceps exten- sor cubiti takes its origin. The superior costa is very thin; and, near its fore-part, there is a semilunar notch, across which a ligament is stretched; and sometimes the bone is continued, to form one, or sometimes two holes, for the passage of the superior scapulary blood- vessels and nerves. Immediately behind this semilunar cavity, the coraco-hyoid muscle has its rise. From the notch to the termination of the fossa for the teres minor, the scapula is narrow, and forms a part of the neck of the bone. The cavity behind the spine is concave, where the supra- spinatus muscle is lodged ; but the surface of this bone, below the spine, on which the infra-spinatus muscle is placed, is con- vex, except a fossa that runs at the side of the inferior costa. The internal or anterior surface of this bone is hollow, ex- cept in the part above the spine, which is convex. The sub- scapularis muscle is extended over this surface, where there are several ridges and intermediate depressions. The spine is small at the base of the scapula, and becomes higher and broader as it approaches the shoulder-joint. On the sides, it is unequally hollow and crooked. Its ridge is divided into two rough flat surfaces: into the upper one, the trapezius muscle is inserted; and, into the lower, a part of the deltoid is fixed. The'end of the spine, called acromion, or top of the shoulder, is broad and flat, and is sometimes only joined to the spine by a cartilage. The anterior edge of the acro- mion is flat, smooth, and covered with a cartilage, for its arti- culation with the clavicle; and it is hollowed below, for the passage of the infra and supra spinati muscles, and free mo- tion of the os humeri. VOL. T.