456 ELEMENTS ^ ANATOMY. semitendinosus and semimembranosus, acting alternately with the biceps, rotate the leg; and upon the weight of the body being thrown upon the leg, the same muscles become muscles of the thigh, or they bend and extend the thigh upon the leg, as in rising from a chair the legs are drawn backwards, or beneath the body, by which we act more firmly and se- curely in raising the thigh on the leg. The insertion of the various muscles into the thigh-bone merits the particular attention of the surgeon, because the contraction of these muscles is a cause of the displacement and shortening of the limb in cases of fracture. The degree of the displacement varies according to the seat of the frac- ture. In general the undermost portion of the broken bone is drawn upwards by the muscles on the back-part, of the thigh. If the fracture be immediately below the trochanter minor, the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, fixed into that process of the thigh-bone, pull the upper portion upwards, and, at the same time, rotate it outwards. If the fracture be near to the middle of the thigh-bone, the tiiceps abductor femoris will draw towards each other the broken extremities of the bones; and if the fracture be immediately above the condyles, the under portion is drawn downwards by the soleus, plantaris, and gastrocnemii muscles. Much has been written as to the comparative advantages of placing a broken thigh-bone in a bent or extended position. Mr Pott highly recommended the half bent position, and that the limb should rest on its outer side, on the trochanter major, on the supposition, that the broken portions of bone would not be disjoined, the muscles of the thigh being thus in the middle state between the complete flexion and exten- sion ; whereas, by the extended position, some of the muscles are relaxed, and others are kept on the stretch. But the mobility of the leg, arid weariness resulting from lying on the side, for the length of time necessary to the cure, are strong objections to Mr Pott’s method. The French surgeons have, therefore, lately recommended, that the patient should lie on his back, and with the broken limb xetended; which is not only less irksome to him, but also