T77 OF THE LOWER JAW. von. i. m That part of the side of the under jaw which is covered by the masseter muscle, is rather broader in the Negro than in the European, and there is a ridge at the insertion- of the muscle. The chin is the middle fore part, the extent of which to' each side is marked on the external surface by the holes ob- servable there, and internally by the beginning of an oblique ridge. On the fore part of the chin, a transverse ridge appears in the middle, on each side of which, the musculi depressores la- bii inferioris, and the levatores labii inferioris, imprint the bone. » There are always two, and sometimes three small protube- rances in the middle of the back part of this bone, which has been sometimes called the symphysis of the lower jaw. These have sometimes been called the internal spines. To the up- permost when it is seen, the fraenum of the tongue is con- nected. From the middle one, the musculi genioglossi rise; from the lowest, the geniohyoidei have their origin and below the last, there are two rough sinuosities formed by the digastric muscles. At the lower and fore part of the external surface of each side of the lower jaw, a small eminence may be observed, which gives rise to the depressor labiorum communis. Near the upper edge of the side a ridge runs lengthwise, to which the under part of the musculus buccinator is connected. In- ternally, towards the upper edge of each side, there is a second ridge, from which the mylohyoidei have their origin, and to which the internal membrane of the gums adheres. In the upper edge of both chin and sides, there are ge- nerally sixteen sockets, for the roots of the teeth. The sockets of the teeth, which are of a spongy nature, are frequently broken in drawing the teeth, and there have been instances in which the fracture extended some way longitudinally in the jaw, and which was followed by caries and exfoliation of a large portion of it. After the teeth have fallen out, the greater share of the