408 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the nature of the disease, by the history of the symptoms, as much as by the knowledge he gains by examining the tumour by his fingers. 20th, As the inguinal lymphatic glands lie over the Cru- ral Aperture, cedema of the limb of the affected side may be produced, by wearing a truss for the cure of the crural her- nia. Qist, That the coverings of a crural hernia vary according to the situation of the tumour. 22d, From the connection of the fascia lata with the ten- don of the external oblique muscle, it is obvious, that, if the thigh be extended, the crural arch must be put upon the stretch; and, on the other hand, when the thigh is rotated inwards, and raised nearly to a right angle with the body, the crural arch is relaxed; hence the pain which the ex- tending the thigh creates in some cases of crural hernia. 23d, That in many cases of crural hernia, the stricture is so complete, that the surgeon finds great difficulty in intro- ducing even the nail of his finger as a director, and is under the necessity of making the division of a few of the tendinous fibres (for it is surprising how little removes the stricture) in the direction in which there is sufficient room. Upon divid- ing the tendinous fibres, a little crack is heard, and the stric- ture is taken off. 24th, That as, in our erect posture, the bowels gravitate di- rectly against the Crural Aperture, there is less chance of re- moving a crural than an inguinal hernia, by the use of a well- made truss. 25th, That the umbilical ring may be slit up in any part, without the risk of wounding any bloodvessel of importance. 26th, That in ventral herniae, there must be a separation or rupture of some of the muscular fibres of the parietes of the abdomen. Such is the account of the parts concerned in Hernia, and such the inferences from it, which I have for several years past delivered in my courses of Lectures. But notwithstanding all that has been lately written upon the anatomy of the parts