476 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. large for it to swallow, it twines itself around it, breaks its bones, and besmears it with a glutinous matter. Animal food seems to need comminution less than vegeta- bles, for all animals which live on vegetables have an appara- tus to reduce it into small pieces. Granivorous animals have two cavities, each of which contain food ; the one may be com- pared to the grinding stones, the other to the hopper. The gizzard of fowls is a powerful instrument of tritura- tion ; it has been found to break glass ; to break lancets, with- out being injured ; to flatten a tube, which, according to Reaumur, required a pressure of 400 lb.; but as the gizzard made the pressure as well as the resistance, the pressure was equal to 800 lb. The internal coat of the gizzard is not on- ly callous, but the motion of it is so exceedingly slow and uni- form, that it cannot be seen on opening the belly of the ani- mal. This stomach acts in all directions, and grinds the food. Small stones are generally found in the gizzard, mixed with the food ; these are supposed to be swallowed in order to grind the food. Spallanzani, however, supposes that they are swallowed by chance, and for no purpose, as digestion goes on without them ; but Dr Fordyce and Mr Hunter sup- pose that it takes a longer time to comminute the food, unless these stones are swallowed. Carnivorous birds are not known to swallow these stones, but domestic fowls always select them. Dr Fordyce found, that chickens hatched artificially by heat, did not digest their food properly unless they got pebbles: These stones are therefore purposely swallowed to assist the gizzard in the trituration of the food. Some fishes have a stomach somewhat resembling the giz- zard, which is surrounded by strong muscles, but not callous on its internal surface. Fishes also swallow stones, and, by the assistance of these, they break down shell-fishes. Birds, which feed both on grain and animal food, have a sort of in- termediate structure in their stomachs. The food is intimately mixed with the saliva, which is se- creted by three large glands, and by a number of small glands, situated on the inner side of the mouth. The saliva was sup- posed a ferment, which favours the decomposition of the ali-