30 2 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. dence from the phenomena of disease. Thus cartilages be- come, by pressure, thinner, or are sometimes absorbed. The cartilages are sometimes converted into bone, especially in persons far advanced in life. The intervertebral cartilages, the cartilages which connect the ribs to the breast-bone, and sometimes also the articular cartilages of the hip and knee- joints, have been observed to be ossified ; and also the ensi- form cartilage of the breast-bone. By scrofula, the cartilages become softer, and are some- times absorbed; especially the intervertebral cartilages, and the articular cartilages of the hip and knee-joints; and, from gout, the articular cartilages of the fingers and toes have been often absorbed. The articular and intervertebral cartilages are sometimes destroyed in part, or entirely, by ulceration; and especially in the scrofulous organic derangements of the, bones. By the venereal poison, the epiglottis has sometimes been ulcerated or even destroyed. sChemical Analysis of Cartilage. As no experiments seem to have been performed upon hu- man cartilage, I requested Dr John Davy to examine it. He did so, and favoured me with the following communication. “ In compliance with your request, I have made a few experiments on human cartilage; the results of which are such as might have been expected, and are agreeable to the conclusion generally drawn from Mr Hatchet’s interest- ing researches, that cartilage is principally condensed albumen. That which I have examined, and which antomists call abdu- cent cartilage, was apparently free from bone, and quite pure. A quantity of it was boiled in water, in a glass-vessel, for about an hour. The water was thus rendered cloudy in a slight degree. Infusion of nut-galls added to it produced a small precipitate; solution of corrosive sublimate had a similar effect; but acetate of lead occasioned a much more copious one. The cartilage was washed with fresh cold water, and again boiled for about three hours. rl he precipitate now produced by infusion of nut-galls and corrosive sublimate in