483 OF THE TEETH. The great sensibility of the teeth proves that they have nerves. The nerves enter the roots of the teeth, and may be traced into their bony canals; and, in proportion to the bulk of the teeth, are larger than in almost any other organ of the body *. The nerves of the teeth in the under jaw are derived from the inferior maxillary nerve. Where that nerve enters the under jaw, it is much larger than where it passes out at the anterior mental foramen; as, during that course, the nerves of the teeth are sent off from it; and these nerves may be traced through the osseous canals of the teeth. The nerves of the teeth of the upper jaw are derived chiefly from the second part of the fifth pair of nerves ; and those of the under jaw from the third part of the fifth pair. The teeth of animals, during the progress of life, are much exposed to attrition, and also to various accidents. Animals, therefore, are provided with a succession of teeth. Man is provided with two sets of teeth: some individuals have had three sets. Of the Teeth in the Adult. The teeth, when viewed in conjunction, form a parabola, or in some cases an ellipse: the line formed by the teeth is not straight; the front and back teeth of the lower jaw are rather higher than those in the middle, in order to meet the teeth of the upper jaw. The teeth differ much in form; and, in different nations, most materially in size, being much larger and longer in the Negro than the European. The largest teeth I have seen are in those of the skulls of the na- tives of Van Dieman’s Land. The teeth were formerly di- vided into three classes, the Incisores, Canini, and Molares.. The molares have been divided by J. Hunter, and more mo- dern anatomists, into two classes, the Bicuspulati and Molares. The incisores of the upper jaw pass over those of the under jaw; and, owing to their oblique situation, act like scissars in dividing the food. The canine, or Laniarii of Linnaeus, on * Vide Monro on the Nervous System. II h 2