168 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. side of these passages next to the nose, and small orifices may be observed opening into the mouth.” The first common hole is that at the inner side of the back part of the tuberosity and of the sockets of the teeth, which is formed by a fossa in this bone, and a corresponding one in the os palati: Through it a nerve, which is a branch of the second branch of the fifth pair, runs to the palate. The other common hole is the great slit described already, as the second common hole of the sphenoid bone. On the nasal process often holes may be observed, for the passage of vessels to the substance of the bone; and, at the back-part of each tuberosity, several foramina are placed, for the transmission of nerves to the cavity within. There is a large sinus in the body of the maxillary bone, which is commonly called antrum maxiUare. The size and form of the antra maxillaria vary very much in different individuals of the same age, and in persons of dif- ferent ages, and in different nations; for in the child at birth, they can be scarcely said to exist, and it also merits mention, that in the same individual they are seldom of the same size. I have seen these small and compressed in the skull of an Es- kimaux, and in that of a native of Van Dieman’s Land. In a rickety skeleton of an adult, in the possession of my colleague Dr Hamilton, the face appears remarkably long and narrow, which, upon examination, was owing to the opposite sides of the antra maxillaria being almost in contact; and it may be observed, that the impressions made by the muscles of the face were unusually deep. When the os maxillare is separated from all the other bones of a skeleton, its antrum appears to have a large aper- ture into the nostrils; but, in a recent subject, it is so co- vered at its back-part by the palate bone, in the middle by the os spongiosum inferius, before, by a strong membrane, that one, or sometimes two holes, scarce larger than a crow- quill, are only left at the upper part; which, after a short winding progress, open into the nostrils between the two ossa spongiosa.