338 elements oe anatomy. Of the Ligaments of the Hip-Joint. The capsular ligament of the hip-joint is connected with the margin of the acetabulum, and descending, is fixed into the prominent line of the thigh-bone, which extends between the trochanter major and minor, so as to include not only the head, but also the neck of the thigh-bone, and descends lower upon the anterior than on the posterior part of the neck of the bone. This ligament is reflected inwards, towards the head of the bone. The capsular ligament is not of an uniform thickness ; it is thicker at its upper and back part than elsewhere, and is strengthened, on its fore-part, by a band of ligamentous fibres, which arise between the two origins of the rectus extensor cruris; and behind there is also an accessory band of liga- mentous fibres. The capsular ligament is strengthened in front by the psoas and iliacus interims and rectus cruris muscles; internally, by the obturator externus and pectineus muscles; behind, by the gemini, the pyramidales, and the tendon of the obturator interims ; above, by the gluteus minimus muscle. This acetabulum is lined by cartilage, as also the head of the thigh-bone. These articular cartilages are of unequal thickness, the former being thinnest towards the centre of the joint, whereas, the corresponding portion of the latter is thick- er than in any other part, in order to render the joint deeper, and at the same time stronger. There is a ligament within this joint somewhat of a trian- gular shape, which consists of two parts; one of these is fixed to the under and inner part of the acetabulum, and is con- nected to the substance called formerly the gland of the joint, from which it becomes gradually narrower ; and the other is fixed to the notch in the acetabulum. These parts are united and inserted into the pit, upon the inner surface of the ball of the thigh-bone. This ligament gives great additional security to the joint; it prevents the displacement of the head of the thigh-bone. In a case in which there was thickening and erosion of the