145 OF THE OS OCCIPUTS. of the cavities of the first vertebra *. In some subjects each of these plain smooth surfaces seems to be divided by a small rising in its middle, and the lower edge of each condyle next the great foramen is discontinued about the middle by an in- tervening notch : Whence some allege, that each of these apophyses is made up of two protuberances. Round their root a small depression and spongy roughness is observable, to which the ligaments for surrounding and securing their ar- ticulations adhere. The motion of the head is performed on the condyles, but its centre of gravity does not fall between them, but further forwards; hence the muscles which pull the head back, must be in a constant state of contraction, else the head would al- ways fall [forwards, as it does when a man is asleep, or la- bours under a palsy, as well as in infants, where the weight of the head far exceeds the proportional strength of these muscles. This seeming disadvantageous situation of the con- dyles, gives sufficient space for the cavities of the mouth and fauces, and for lodging a sufficient number of muscles, which commonly serve for other uses ; but may at pleasure act on the head, and then act with an advantageous lever, so as to be capable of sustaining a considerable weight. Somewhat more externally than the condyles, there is a small rising and semilunated hollow in each side, which make up part of the holes common to the occipital and petrous bones. Immediately behind this, on each side, a scabrous ridge is extended from the middle of the condyle, towards the root of the mastoid process. About the middle of the exter- nal convex surface, a large arch runs cross the bone; from the upper lateral parts of which the occipital muscles have their rise ; to its middle the trapezii are attached; and half way between this and the great hole, a lesser arch is extend- ed. In the hollows between the middle of these arches, the complexi are inserted ; and in the depressions more external and further forward than these, the splenii are inserted. Be- • Galen, de U9U part. lib. 12. cap. 7. "f Djemerbroeck, Anat. Lib, 9. cap. 6. VOL. 1.