ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 151- cave, for lodging a part of the brain; and commonly three apophyses on the internal surface of the sphenoid bone are on- ly mentioned. Two rising broad from the fore part of its body, become smaller as they are extended obliquely back- wards ; the third, standing on a long transverse base, near the back part of the body of this bone, rises nearly erect, and of an equal breadth, terminating often in a little knob on each side. The three are called clinoid, from some resemblance which they were thought to have to the supporters of a bed. Sometimes one or both the anterior clinoid processes are joined to the sides of the posterior one, or to the body of the bone it- self. From the roots of the interior clinoid processes, the bone is extended on each side outwards and forwards, and ends in the sharp transverse spinous process. Between, but a little farther back than the two anterior clinoid processes, we see a protuberance considerably smaller than the posterior clinoid process, but of its shape. Another process from between the transverse processes, often forces itself forwards into the os eth- moides. The cavities formed by the several surfaces of the temporal processes of the sphenoid bone, contain the middle lobes of the brain. Immediately before the third or middle clinoid pro- cess, a single pit generally may be remarked, from which a fossa goes out on each side to the holes through which the op- tic nerves pass. The pit is formed by the conjoined optic nerves ; and in the fossae these nerves are lodged, as they run divided within the skull. Between that third protuberance and the posterior clinoid process, the large pit for the glandu- la pituitaria may be remarked. This cavity, because of its re- semblance to a turkish saddle, is always described under the name of sella turcica, or ephippium. On the sides of the pos- terior clinoid processes, there is a canal for lodging the inter- nal carotid artery, that stretches upwards ; then is continued forwards along the sides of the sella turcica, near to the ante- rior clinoid processes, where a pit on each side is made. Se- veral other fossae may be observed, leading to the several boles, and imprinted by the nerves and bloodvessels.