OF THE VOMER. 175 the under part of the lacrymal ducts, the orifices of which into the nose are concealed by these bones. The ossa turbinata are nearly complete in a new-born in- fant. Vomer. The Vomer, or bone resembling a plough-share, is the thirteenth of the upper jaw, without a fellow, forming the lower and back parts of the partition of the nose *. The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid. Its sides are flat and smooth. Its posterior edge appears in an oblique direction at the back part of the nostrils. The upper one is firmly united to the base of the sphenoid bone, and to the nasal plate of the ethmoid ; and, when it can be got sepa- rated, is hollow, for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid. The anterior edge has a long furrow' in it, where the middle cartilage of the nose enters. The lower edge is firmly united to the nasal spines of the maxillary and palate bones. The edges of this bone are much thicker than the middle, which is as thin as the finest paper; and more espe- cially in the skulls of persons advanced in life. This bone often inclines to one side, as well as the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone. The convexity of the vomer in one of the nostrils has sometimes been mistaken for a polypus in the nose, when that membrane has attained an unnatural thickness. The vomer is convex at its upper part, and then is straight, as it is extended downwards and forwards, where it is com- posed of two plates ; the edges of which have a great num- ber of small processes, disposed somewhat like the teeth of a saw, but more irregularly, and several of them are reflected back. Between these plates a deep fossa is left, which, as far as the top of the curvature, is wide, and has strong sides, for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. Beyond the arch forwards, the fossa is narrower and shallower gradu- ally to the point of the bone, receiving for some wray the nasal lamella ethmoidca ; which, after the ossification is complete. * Columb. de Re Anat. lib. 1. cap. 8. Fallop. Observat. Anatom,