elements of ANATOMY. 248 Page 416, 1st edition of his Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures. A few years afterwards, he had the satisfaction of verifying his former observations, by dissecting the joints of several persons, who during life had suffered from dislocation, and particularly by examining the shoulder of a man whose arm had been dislocated by falling from a considerable height: he also remarked that the muscles in the vicinity of the dis- located joint were displaced, and sometimes torn. These observations of my Father have been fully confirmed by future observers, and especially by Sir Astley Coofek. The os humeri may be dislocated in different directions = Ist, Downwards into the axilla, and when the head of the displaced bone rests on the inferior costa of the scapula. 2d, The head of the bone is displaced forwards under the pectoral muscle, or below the middle of the clavicle; or, 3d, The head of the bone is sometimes, though very rare- ly, displaced backwards upon the back part of the scapula. Sir A. Coofeii has described a 4th kind of dislocation, which “ is only partial, when the anterior portion of the cap- sular ligament is torn through, and the head of the bone is found resting against the coracoid process of the scapula on its outer side Twenty-five years ago, my Father intended to publish his observations on dislocations, and got ten plates at that time engraved for the purpose, but unfortunately he did not fulfil his intention. Four of these engravings illustrate the na- ture of the most common kind of dislocation of the shoulder joint. The object of the first view is to shew the position of the head of the dislocated humerus, in respect to the great pectoral and deltoid muscles; the alteration in the form of the joint, occasioned by the displacement of the head of the bone, the angular appearance of the joint; the flattened appearance of the deltoid muscle, and its being lower than natui’al on the os humeri, and that the head of the os humeri is in the axilla.