or THE PELVIS. 105 Lastly, The axis of the pelvis of the foetus is different from that of the adult: hence Dr Camper has justly observed, “ si ad directionem attendemus earn in adultis, antrorsum incli- nari, in infantibus propter spin® rectitudinem cum lineo pro- pensiores fere concidente comperiemus; hinc manifestum est, coxas ejus qui calcule sectione subiturus est, pro diversa aetate, collocari debemus elevatius in juniori, humilius in adultis.” Of Deficiency at the fore part of the Pelvis. There are a few instances on record *, (I have seen three such), in which there has been a deficiency in the male pelvis at the symphysis pubis, and in which the pelvis is at the same time as broad as the female pelvis, so that the gait of the in- dividual is like to that of a woman. The first instance I saw was in the person of a man of 30 years of age, who was of middle stature, rather corpulent, and who seemed to enjoy good health. He had in the region of the pubis a red-coloured swelling, about the size of an or- ange, w'hich had a glossy surface, and which was constant- ly kept moist by a fluid, discharged from a couple of ori- fices, which opened on the surface of the tumour, and into these a probe might be entered for several inches. The fluid was discharged drop by drop, and had all the characters of the urine. About an inch below this red-coloured tumour, there was a smaller projecting body, about an inch and a half long, and about an inch in breadth, on the upper surface of which there was a distinct groove, but there was no canal, like the urethra, in the under part of it: the front of this body somewhat resembled the glans penis, and had something like a prepuce. Beneath this body, the scrotum containing the testes, which were of the usual size, was placed. In short, in this instance the back part of the bladder had been protruded, and the openings above described were the terminations of the ureters. • See Transactions of a Society for the improvement of Medical and Sur- gical Knowledge, vol. i. p. 90.