OF THE FORMATION OF BONE. 47 Dr Macdonald’s experiments led him to suppose, that pure blood is effused between the broken ends of the bones, from which the red globules are in a short time abstracted. This coagulated blood or incipient callus, in a short time becomes vascular, and is covered by a newly formed perios- teum, which adheres to the original one, after which the ossi- fication commences. But the breaking the bones at the com- mencement of the experiment, by which many bloodvessels must have burst, seemed to me to render it impossible to de- termine, whether the effusion of red blood was the prelimi- nary step. I therefore directed my attention to that remark- able disorder, the hydrocephalus ehronicus, in which the bones of the skull, in consequence of the increased volume of the brain, are kept growing for a number of years. In consequence of having examined a number of instances in which bone was forming, I am led to believe, that the pro- cess of the new formation of bone is as followsBlood is ef- fused, the red particles of which are speedily absorbed, toge- ther with the serum. The fibrine which remains, forms a sort of nidus, in which the bony matter is deposited : whilst this process is taking place, the bloodvessels of the part are very much enlarged. The bony matter is not deposited in a solid form : it is probably held in solution by the phosphoric acid, which acid is afterwards abstracted by the absorbent vessels. When the bony substance which has been recently formed has been dried, it is very white, and so soft that it may be scratch- ed by the nail, and exhibits a granular surface, but which, af- ter a short time, it loses (in consequence of the filling up of the interstitial spaces), and becomes quite smooth. It merits particular notice, that these small grains, which constitute as it were the bases of the bones, are not always of the same size. Dr Dunlap, a favourite pupil of Sir Astley Coopeu’s, last season (1823), published in his Thesis the result of the observations of his preceptor on this head : “ Quando os simpliciter fractum fuit, sanguis inter extre- mas partes ejus effunditur ; verum is sanguis nihil confert, uti olim existimatum est, in osse resarciendo, sed circiter quartum