224 E L E1\I E N TS O E A X A T O M V. bushes, and can thus pass over a great extent of country in a day. My hunters had experience of this their bodily supe- riority.'” Of the Fifth or Malay Class. This class includes the inhabitants of Sumatra, Java, Bor- neo, New Guinea, New Zealand, New Holland, Van Die- man’s Land, and the 'Islands of the Pacific Ocean. The complexion of these people is brown ; hair black ; cranial part of head small, but the bones of the face and mouth, and lips and teeth, are large. The great intercourse which subsists between New Holland and Great Britain, has rendered us very familiar with the ap- pearance of the natives of that great island. Through the medium of my friends, I have got a complete skeleton of a native of that country, and also three skulls; and in the Mu- seum of Natural History and of the Phrenological Society, there are four or five specimens of that remarkable people. The aborigines of that island hold but a low place in the scale of human beings, and they have gained but little by their intercourse with more civilised society. In complexion, they are dark brown or black, have the features of the African, viz. prominent cheeks, broad and flat nose, large nostrils, very wide mouth, and very thick lips; the hair is jet black, which is often matted, as it were, into ropes, which hang about the head like a mop. The skull is composed of hard, compact, dense, and heavy, materials; it is thicker than in most Europeans, and its sur- face is very uneven; the indentations on it have probably- been occasioned by their clubs, or loaddeis, with which they often fight with each other. The cranial part of the skull is small in proportion to the bones of the face ; the head is short from before to behind (vide measurements, Table II.), and narrow, notwithstand- ing the remarkable projection from the occipital bone, but it does not seem as if it had been compressed laterally. There is a larger proportion of the skull before than behind the meatus auditorius externus.