OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. 369 VI. Farther, two oblique can produce a more extensive mo- tion than two straight muscles of the same length, and which, at first sight, seem much better fitted for the purpose. VII. On the same principles, the extent of motion increases with the degree of the obliquity of the muscles; and, as the degree of obliquity of an oblique muscle is gradually increas- ing durino- its action, its force is diminishing, whilst its effect of producing extensive motion is increasing. VIII. The general preposition may be proved by arithmeti- cal calculation. Thus if we suppose two straight muscles, such as our recti abdominis, to be five inches long, and to shorten themselves, in contracting, one-fifth part of their length, they will draw the ensiform cartilage through a space of one inch onlv ; but if we suppose the same muscles to be placed oblique- ly, and their origins fixed to the ossa ilia instead of the ossa pubis, and that a line drawn transversely between the ossa ilia measures eight inches, it is evident that they would draw the ensiform cartilage three times farther, because they will not lose one-fifth of their length till the ensiform cartilage is brought down to the middle of the line that is drawn between their origins. Let us next suppose two muscles, each 13 inches long, to be laid so obliquely, that a line drawn perpendicularly from their insertion to the middle of a line joining their ori- gins, measures 5 inches. If these muscles shorten themselves a single inch, the place of their insertion will be moved through a space of 5 inches, or five times farther than it could be by the action of two straight muscles. IX. Upon the whole, oblique muscles have the following effects. 1. Although the force of an oblique muscle is less than that of a straight one of the same number of fibres, in the propor- tion which the perpendicular bears to the length of the oblique fibre, yet oblique muscles, with short and numerous fibres, are employed where great strength is necessary, as in bending the fingers or toes ; or where the part to be moved, the hand VOL. i. a a