t>F THE SKULL. 127 anterior end of the common squamous suture just now de- scribed, of which one runs perpendicularly downwards, and the other horizontally forwards, and also the lower part of the coronal suture already taken notice of, may be said to be parts of the squamous suture. The thin edges of bones, when ac- curately applied one to another, present a smooth surface; and, therefore, the superincumbent temporal muscle is not injured during its action ; which is still further provided for by the manner of laying these edges on each other; for, in ■viewing their outside, we see the temporal bones covering the sphenoidal and parietal, and this last supporting the sphenoi- dal, while both mount on the frontal: From which disposi- tion, it is evident that these bones mutually support each other. # The bones of the skull are joined to those of the face, by schyndelesis and sutures. The schyndelesis is in the partition of the nose. The sutures said to be common to the cranium and face are, viz. the ethmoidal, sphenoidal, transverse, and two zygomatic. The ethmoidal and sphenoidal sutures surround the bones of these names; and in some places form part of other su- tures, particularly the squamous and transverse. The transverse suture stretches across the face from the external cauthus of one orbit to that of the other, by sinking from the canthus down the outside of the orbit to its bottom ; then mounting upon its inside, it is continued by the root of the nose down the internal part of the other orbit, and rises up again on its outside to the other canthus. There are, however, some interruptions of this suture in the above course; for the bones are not contiguous every where. The zygomatic sutures, ^situate between the temporal and cheek bones, are short, and slanting from above obliquely downwards and backwards; and the indentations of the su- tures are not so distinct on the inside of the cranium as on the outside; for, in some skulls, the sutures are observable only externally, which may possibly be owing to the less extent of the concave thau of the convex surface of the cranium. 3