529 OF THE GASTRIC JUICE. experiments on the eagle, that the food of an animal, intend- ed to live ultimately on vegetables, may, in the earlier period of its existence, be purely animal, or at least of a mixed na- ture. My Father, at a very early period of his life, considered, that the change which the food undergoes within the stomach, was owing to the influence of the gastric fluid. The following is an extract of his 123d Lecture, which was written in short- hand by Mr Thorbujin, 1773 *. “Within the stomach it (the food) is incorporated with the drink ; and it is there subjected not only to the action of the muscular coat of the stomach, but also to the agitation of the arteries running upon its coats ; and to the alternate motions of the chest in respiration. At the same time it is exposed to the heat of our body ; which, joined to moisture and motion, we must suppose to have an effect to a certain extent. But we are by no means to conceive that the circumstances I have mentioned are the most essential. For without almost any of them, digestion takes place in one or other of the kinds of animals. “ The chief cause is the humours of the stomach acting as menstrua. Dr Young has shewn, in his Thesis de Lacte, that the humours of the stomach of animals, before they have tasted of food, or whilst in the foetus state, possess the power of curdling milk. He observed this even in those animals that never taste of milk as their natural aliment, as the birds. So this gives a suspicion that this humour is materially diffe- rent from the merely watery parts of the blood. “ Anatomists of the last century have observed in the sto- mach of the fish, the parts of a lesser fish, even the bones, melt- ing down in the space of a few hours; that the part included in the stomach was dissolved, whilst the part lodged in the cesophagus remained entire. “ I have mentioned in a former lecture the experiment I made on a dog, of giving him hard bones, which were dis- * Many copies of these notes of Lectures, taken by Mr Tuonnuitn, have been sold. A few years ago, they were advertised as publicly as any printed book. VOL. I. j, 1