ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 52 cluced to a gangrenous state, and is cast off'; and also, from the phenomena observed during the growth of horns. My Father entertained a favourable opinion of Du Ha- mel’s theory, and thus expressed himself in his Lectures : “ The periosteum has a greater effect in repairing the loss of bones from accident than Du Hamel himself is aware of. For, from his arguments, and from a number of additional circumstances, it appears, that the supply is very much made by the periosteum, though not entirely so, for the vessels of bones can furnish a matter that is similar to the rest. We find, on breaking the bones of animals, and tracing the frac- ture, that at first the periosteum around the bone inflames, and swells enormously, beyond what you would imagine, es- pecially if the animal is young. I have seen it one-fourth of an inch in thickness in a pig after a fracture. With time, that is, in the space of a fortnight or three weeks, we find new earthy matter beginning to be deposited. “ Now, some, as Hallek, have alleged, that indeed the pe- riosteum swells after a fracture, because it has a certain degree of irritability, but that the swelling subsides again, without producing bone. “ When the callus has been completed, the parts are put together, as nature joins the broken pieces of the branch of a tree. “ The bark, a tough substance, does not readily yield, and on tying up the broken branch of the tree, there is very lit- tle growth between the woody parts, and the fracture is heal- ed by a ringlet of wood from the bark. « Our bones are re-united in the same manner, and the new addition is not confined to the broken place ; but if the accident is produced by great violence, there is an addition made to the tables from end to end. « We might suppose this owing to irritation on the ves- sels of the bone, but it is owing, in a great measure, to the new addition, and we find cells containing marrow interposed; and when we inject the vessels of the callus, which are nume- rous and large, we can trace them from the external perios- teum.