OF TIIF LOWER JAW. 179 lo-hvoideus muscle and sublingual gland. The other hole is external, at the confines of the chin, where small branches of the nerve and vessels come out, and are distributed on the skin and muscles of the chin. There is a canal betwixt these two holes, in the middle of the substance of the bone, which is pierced by a great num- ber of small holes, through which the nerves and bloodvessels of the cancelli and teeth pass. This canal is continued a lit- tle farther than the external hole at the chin. It is remarkable, considering the size of the inferior maxil- lary nerve, that fractures of the lower jaw are. seldom attended with bad consequences. The surface of the lower jaw is hard and firm, except at the spongy sockets, where, however, it is stronger than the upper jaw. Its internal substance is cellular, without any solid par- tition between the cancelli in its middle. At the base, espe- cially of the chin, where this bone is most exposed to injuries, the solid sides of it are thick, compact and hard. This bone ig frequently broken, in consequence of external violence. It is sometimes broken in a direction perpendicu- lar to the basis, or obliquely, or longitudinally. I have al- so seen one-half of the bone completely detached by a fall from horseback, and the place of the portion thus removed was supplied in the course of six months. The ascending branches and condyles of the jaws have also been occasionally broken. In some instances, the alveolar processes have been detached from the body of the bone. The condyloid processes, covered with cartilage, are articu- lated with the temporal bones. The fore-part of the cavity between the zygomatic, auditory and vaginal processes, and al- so the adjoining tubercle at the root of the zygomatic process of each os temporum, is covered with a smooth cartilage, for this articulation. Within this joint there isan intermediate moveable cartilage, which being thin in the middle, and thick at the edges, is concave on both sides ; and is connected so firmly by ligaments to each condyle, as to follow the motions of the condyle ; and so loosely to the temporal bone, as readily to M 2