242 elements of anatomy. The coracoid process is crooked, with its point inclining forwards; so that a hollow is left at the lower side of its root, for the passage of the infra-scapularis muscle. The end of this process is marked by three plain surfaces. Into the in- ternal, the serratus minor anticus is inserted : From the ex- ternal, the short head of the biceps flexor cubiti rises; and, from the lower one, the coraco-brachialis has its origin. At the upper part of the root of this process, immediately before the semilunar cavity, a smooth tubercle appears, where a liga- ment from the clavicle is fixed. From the external side of this coracoid apophyse, a broad ligament goes out, which becomes narrower where it is fixed to the acromion. The acute pain, and violent inflammation attending contusions in this part, are probably owing to injury done to the tendons and ligaments. The glenoid cavity, which constitutes the front of the neck bone, is in shape like to the longitudinal section of an egg, being broad below, and narrow above. Between the brims of this hollow and the fore-part of the root of the spine, a large sinuosity is left, for the transmission of the supra and infra spinati muscles ; and, on the upper part of these brims, there is a smooth surface, for the origin of the second head of the biceps flexor cubiti. The medullary vessels enter the scapula near the base of the spine. The scapula is of an unequal thickness. The neck and third process are thick and strong : The inferior costa, spine, and coracoid process, are of a middle thickness; but the body is thin and transparent. There are few cells between the plates of this bone. The scapula and clavicle are joined by plain surfaces, tip- ped with cartilage, in order to admit of a slight degree of ro- tation, and are united by the common capsular ligament, and also by a very strong one, which proceeds from the coracoid process, but which divides into two, before it is fixed into the clavicle: or it can yield to the fore-part of the scapula mo- ving downwards, while the back-part of it is drawn upwards; in both which cases, the oblong smooth articulated surfaces of the clavicle and scapula are not in the same plane, but stand