228 KI • K M ENTS () !•' A X A TOM V. lent exercise, they strip themselves, naked, retaining only a belt, with which they gird their waists very tight. Fulness in this part of the body is unknown among them, and when seen in Europeans, excites much ridicule. When they go to war, or when they wish to appear to the greatest advantage, they paint their bodies red with a composition of oil and ochre ; their hair is also oiled, fastened in a bunch on the top of their heads, and ornamented with the feathers of the gannet or the albatross, and a bunch of the more downy feathers of these birds is usually fastened in one ear. Their ears are always pierced during their infancy, and particularly those of the women. The perforation is gradually distended by means of a piece of stick passed through it; and the larger it becomes the more ornamental it is considered. From it the better class of people suspend the tooth of a particular fish, rather scarce on this coast; and so punctilious are the persons authorised to use this distinction, that the Cookee dares not under any cir- cumstance infringe upon the prerogative. They also wear, fastened round the neck, by a cord, and hanging on the breast, a piece of green talc carved to represent what cannot be deemed human'; they attach much value to it, not from any superstitious notion, but from its antiquity ; and it is he- reditary in families. The dress of the women is precisely the same as that of the men ; among the latter nudity at any time, or on any occasion, is not considered indecorous, but a dere- liction of feminine modesty by the former is seldom known. The females are slightly tatooed upon the upper lip in the centre of the chin, and above the eyebrows. Some of them have a few lines upon their legs. A woman was seen at Shuke- hanga, who was described as having come from a place far to the southward of it, having lines on her breast, not unlike the links of a chain ; while a female prisoner of Krokros was tatooed almost as much as a man. The New Zealand women are as fair as those of the south- ern parts of Europe, well made, and in general handsome. Before matrimony, concubinage is scarcely considered a crime, nor is it an impediment to the highest connection; af- ter it they are faithful and affectionate wives, and very fond of their children. They bear with the greatest patience the