OF THE BILE. 563 It lias been disputed whether or not Follicles be interposed between the extreme branches of the hepatic artery and vena portarum, and the origins of the biliary ducts ; and also, whe- ther all the bile be derived from the vena portarum, or from the hepatic artery. My Father, who had devoted much at- tention to the structure of glands, and who had made many microscopical observations upon these, after filling, with great success, the biliary ducts, was of opinion, that the acini of the liver are solely made up o f cylindrical vessels. That the bile is formed by the vena portarum, is no doubt probable, from the very circumstance of an additional vessel being proper to the liver ; as well as from the large size of that vessel, which is capable of containing four times as much blood as the hepatic artery : besides, its branches are distribu- ted over every part of the liver, like those of an artery, and communicate with those of the hepatic duct. The hepatic artery alone has commonly been stated by au- thors to nourish the liver. But there are several objections to such an opinion. • 1st, Because the vena portae of the foetus in utero receives nutritious matter, and also probably oxygen gas, by the me- dium of the placenta of the mother. 9.dly, My Father found, that, after throwing a ligature around the hepatic artery of a living animal, and then cutting it, there was an adhesion formed betwixt the liver and the side, which adhesion was supplied with blood from the vena porta- rum. Hence the branches of the vena portarum contribute to the nutrition of the liver, in the same manner as those of the pulmonary artery contribute to the nutrition of the lungs, as appears from a preternatural adhesion between the pleura costalis and pulmonalis being supplied with blood by the small branches of the pulmonary artery. My Father, who had always entertained the above opinion respecting the hepatic artery, endeavoured to prove it, by diverting the blood of an animal from the vena portarum ; but his experiment proved fatal in so short a time that no infe- rence could be drawn from it. N n 2