222 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. much animation, several of their speeches and addresses, which I listened to with no less admiration than astonishment, for they are in the highest strain of eloquence. Humboldt and Bonpland brought to Paris several crania of Aturcs, Mexican Indians and Peruvians, in which the frontal bone is very much depressed ; and Humboldt has af- firmed, “ there is no race on the globe, in which the frontal bone is more depressed backwards, or which has a less pro- jecting forehead, than the American.'" He has added, “ This extraordinary flatness is to be found among nations, to whom the means of producing artificial deformity are totally un- known.” Of the appearance of two individuals of that tribe of peo- ple called in Brazil Botocudoes, I can speak from personal ob- servation. About a year ago, a male and female of that tribe were exhibited in this city. The man died during his residence in Edinburgh, and I got a cast of his head. The head is not deficient in point of size ; for, in circumfe- rence, as taken by a string, it measures 23 inches on the cast, from which, perhaps, an inch should be deducted, on account of the thickness of the hair; and it measures from the root of the nose to the most prominent part of the occiput, rather less than 8 inches, for which £ should be deducted for the thickness of the hair; and from ear to ear, by the calliper compasses 5f inches. The forehead, though not prominent, cannot be said to be low ; and, indeed, is larger there than in some natives of this country, but it is narrow. The bones of the face are large : the cheek-bones are broad, being equal to 5J inches, and seemed remarkably so, owing probably to his extreme emaciation belore death. The nose was aquiline ; the orbits large, and the line of the face nearly straight; it retreated, however, somewhat near to the chin. Prince Maximilian of Wied-Neuwied, procured a skull of a young man of that tribe, in describing which he has stated, that “ the large piece of wood worn on the under lip, had not only pushed the lower lore-teeth out of their