FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 4-13 iransversails fascia toward the spine of the ilium. He sees, that, in proportion to the degree in which the posterior side of the canal overlaps the anterior, so must the length of the ca- nal vary. If he take a just and comprehensive view of these parts, he will be able to see in the structure, a wise provision of Nature to prevent protrusion at the groin, and he will also be led to deduce some pathological inferences from the data before him. He will be prepared to understand why Inguinal Hernia is much more frequent in young than in old subjects; why it is often cured in the former, and seldom in the latter; and why in the one it is a more dangerous affection than in the other. “ In the very early period of life, the cord, as we have just seen, passes through a mere aperture; and besides, there is an open communication between the tunica vaginalis and the belly. From these circumstances, therefore, a portion of gut is forced down along the cord, forming congenital hernia ; or, if the tunica vaginalis be obliterated, a new peritonseal sac passes through the ring by the side of the cord. As, however, the parts are more dilatable in the young than in the old per- son, so is hernia, cateris paribus, more readily reducible in the former, and, consequently, less dangerous. The gut, in the first instance, in the young subject, passes through a sim- ple ring, but if the hernia be allowed to remain, then in many cases the upper orifice, ascending toward the spine of the ili- um, as it ought to do, comes in the end to lodge both the her- nial sac and the spermatic cord, in a complete canal; and this will probably be found to be the reason why surgeons believe that hernia does often take place along the canal. They see a herniary tumour in advanced age lying in the oblique course of the canal; but they forget to inquire when the protrusion took place, and what was the original appearance of the tu- mour. “ Were they to trace their cases to their origin, they would most probably ascertain, that, in the first instance, the hernia had appeared in infancy, that it had been less oblique at the beginning, but imperceptibly become more and more so. I speak from what I have seen in several instances. Among a