OF THE TEETH. 493 of the temporary sockets, but increase in proportion with the size of the permanent sacs, and gradually form a distinct socket round each of them. “ There is, however, an opening left immediately under the ffiiiii, through which the membranes of both sets of teeth O' O continue to be connected.” The second set of teeth come forwards under the first set. The wisdom teeth begin to be formed about the eighth or ninth year, but do not appear until the twentieth or twenty- first year ; or sometimes until a later period of life. The teeth fill the jaws, by which the principal grinders are near to the condyles of the jaw, both for the sake of strength, and also that every part of the food may be manducated. Two sets are given, not merely as they last longer, but al- so to fill the jaw in its enlarged state ; for the teeth could not grow like the soft bone. Before concluding this section, it may not be improper to call the attention of the reader to the very different sizes of the alveolar processes and teeth in different nations. Changes in the Teeth and Jaws in advanced Life. In consequence of the continued attrition of the surfaces of the teeth during manducation, the opposed surfaces are worn down, by which the form of the teeth is materially altered. The teeth, in persons far advanced in life, are much worn down ; the enamel is worn off the bases of the incisor and ca- nine teeth in the first place; and the bony part of the teeth continues to live. After the points, and a considerable share of the bony part of the tooth is worn down, the tooth appears concave, owing to the greater hardness of the enamel. The outer crust of enamel being sharp, assists very much in divid- ing our food. In progress of time, the teeth are completely worn down to their necks ; and in proportion as the surface is worn down, the cavity of the tooth is filled up by a newly formed substance, otherwise its cavity must have been exposed. The newly formed substance is more transparent than the rest of the tooth, and is obvious in the middle of the tooth.