ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 506 Of the Sublingual Gland. The sublingual gland is flat, of an oval form, is longer, softer, and smaller, than the submaxillary gland, and is situ- ated under the anterior part of the tongue, above the duct of the inferior maxillary gland, between the mylo-hyoideus and Genio-glossus muscles. The upper part of the gland projects into the mouth, and is fixed in its place by the reflection of the skin from the under side of the tongue. The ducts of this gland open into the duct of the submaxil- lary gland, or a little to the outside of the fraenum linguae. A duct similar to the duct of the submaxillary gland, some- times opens in the side of the duct of the submaxillary gland. The smaller salivary glands are placed in the lips, cheeks, tongue, and palate; and are of various sizes, in different in- dividuals, and are placed between the lining of the mouth, and the muscles proper to it. When the duct of the parotid gland has been exposed, an attempt has been made to ascertain the quantity of saliva, which is secreted by that gland in a given time, and du- ring meals. It has been stated, that in a quarter of an hour ?ii of saliva have been secreted. It has been supposed, that the pressure of the under jaw, and muscles connected with it, increases the secretion of the saliva. But it may be observed, that the saliva is secreted, and in considerable quantity, though the jaw be not moved, as I had occasion to notice particularly, in the case of a man I visited with Mr Beyce and Dr Gardiner, who divided his windpipe and gullet, and whose life was maintained by broths, soups, and other fluids injected into the stomach, through a tube. When- ever any of the above fluids reached the stomach, imme- diately a considerable quantity of saliva was discharged. It merits particular notice, that this patient’s appetite continued good, and that he did not suffer from the slightest degree of weakness or indigestion, notwithstanding his constant confine- ment for some months in prison, and though very little or none of the saliva reached the stomach. On the contrary, he daily gained strength, and when I met with him in the street about fourteen months after he had divided his gullet, he was one of the most athletic men I have seen.