72 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The oblique processes are placed almost perpendicular ; the upper ones slanting but a little forwards, and the lower ones slanting as much backwards. Between the oblique processes of opposite sides, several sharp processes stand out from the upper and lower parts of the plates which join to form the spinal process; into these sharp processes, strong ligaments, which Connect the vertebrae, are fixed. The transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra are long, thicker at their ends than in the middle, and turned obliquely backwards; which may be owing to the pressure of the ribs, the tubercles of which are inserted into a depression near the end of these processes. The spinal processes are long, small pointed, and sloping downwards and backwards; from their upper and back part, a ridge rises, which is received by a small channel in the fore part of the spinal process immediately above, which is here connected to it by a ligament. The spinal canal is circular, and smaller than in any of the other vertebrae, and a larger share of the holes in the bony ridges, for the transmission of the nerves, is formed in the vertebra above, than in the one below. The connection of the dorsal vertebra to the ribs, the thin- ness of their cartilages, the erect situation of the oblique pro- cesses, the length, sloping, and connection of the spinal pro- cesses, contribute to limit the motion of those vertebrae, which might have interrupted the actions of the heart and lungs. In consequence of the little motion allowed here, the inter- vertebral cartilages sooner shrivel; and, therefore, as people advance in life, they become round-shouldered. The bodies of the four uppermost dorsal vertebra are the largest, and the other three below gradually become smaller, to allow the trachea and large vessels to divide at smaller angles. The two uppermost vertebrae of the back, instead of being very prominent forwards, are flattened by the action of the musculi longi colli and recti majores. The proportional size of the two little depressions in the