356 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. material change: during a full inspiration, descending more than ail inch, and to a still greater degree, in consequence of a collection of purulent matter, water or air, within the chest: on the other hand, during the last months of pregnancy, or by dropsy of the belly, it encroaches consider- ably on the cavity of the chest, ascending, in some instances, as high as opposite to the fourth rib; and when the stomach and colon have been considerably distended, the liver is pres- sed considerably upwards, and especially the anterior part of it, so that the position of that organ is considerably changed. The liver bears the following relation to the neighbouring parts. The upper convex surface of it is adapted to, and in con- tact with, the diaphragm. The under irregular surface rests on the right kidney, the stomach, omentum majus, arch of the colon, and duodenum; and the posterior rounded surface is opposed to the crura of the diaphragm and lumbar vertebrae. The right lobe is in contact with the pylorus and colon, and lies over the right kidney. The left lobe is placed horizon- tally, and lies over a part of the stomach. The situation of the liver, in respect to the neighbouring parts, merits attention, as enabling the practitioner to form an opinion as to the effects which result from the increased bulk of that organ, and also as to the different channels by which purulent matter may find an exit from the liver. The pressure of the enlarged liver may interrupt the func- tions of the stomach; or the same cause, impeding the free circulation of the blood through the different bowels of the belly, as well as through the liver itself, may produce a drop- sy of the belly. The enlarged liver is the source of still farther mischief; by pressing upon the gall-ducts, it impedes the free passage of the bile into the intestinal canal, and the bile thus obstruct- ed passes off’ by another channel, and is taken up by the lymphatic vessels, occasioning jaundice. Nor is this all the evil to be apprehended from the affec- tion we are considering. By means of inflammation the en- larged liver may be united to the neighbouring parts, and if