ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 262 extensor carpi radialis is inserted ; and its fore part is promi- nent, for the insertion of the tendon of the flexor carpi ra- dialis. The external side of the body of this bone is more hollow than the internal. The tubercle at the internal root of its head is larger than the external. Its base is so firmly fixed to the bone it is connected with, that it has no motion. The os metacarpi medii digiti is generally the second in length ; but is often as long as the former ; sometimes it is longer ; and frequently it appears to equal the first only by the os magnum being farther advanced downwards than any other bone of the wrist. Its base is a broad superficial cavity, slanting outwards; the internal posterior angle of which is so prominent, as to have the appearance of a process. The internal side of this base is plain, while its external side has two hol- low circular surfaces, by which it is united to the third meta- carpal bone, and between these surfaces there is a rough fos- sa, for the adhesion of a ligament. The two sides of this bone are almost equally flat; only the ridge on the fore part of the body inclines outwards. The tubercles at the fore part of the root of the head are equal. The os metacarpi digiti annularis is shorter than the se- cond metacarpal bone. Its base is semicircular and convex, for its conjunction with the os unciforme. On its internal side there are two smooth convexities, and a middle fossa, ad- apted to the second metacarpal bone. The external side has a triangular smooth concave surface to join it with the fourth one. The anterior ridge of its body inclines to the outer side. The tubercles near to the head are equal. The mo- tion of this third metacarpal bone is greater than the motion of the second. The os metacarpi minimi digiti is the smallest and sharpest. Its base is irregularly convex, and rises slanting outwards. Its internal side is exactly adapted to the third metacarpal bone. The external side is prominent where the extensor carpi ulnaris is inserted. This metacarpal bone is more move-