178 elements of anatomy. alveolar process is absorbed, and the edges of what remains of these processes fall together, forming a sharp ridge, and a sort of substitute for the teeth, which is very useful in mandu- cation, and the jaw becomes much narrower. Hence the chin and nose of edentulous people are much nearer than before the teeth were lost; while their lips fall in towards the mouth. When new teeth are protruded, new sockets are formed. The lower edge of the chin and sides is smooth, and has commonly been called the base of the lower jaw. The ends of the base, where the jaw turns upwards, are called its angles; the external surface of each of which is unequal and deeply impressed by the masseter muscle. The internal surface of this bone is much marked by the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle, especially in the skull of the Esquimaux ; and also by the ligament which passes between it and the styloid process of the temporal bone. The ascending portion of the bone ends in two large pro- cesses, the coronoid and the posterior processes or condyles : the latter terminate in an oblong smooth head, supported by a cervix. The heads, whose greatest length is transverse, and whose convexity is turned forwards, are tipped with a carti- lage, as the articulated parts of all other moved bones are. The root and neck of the condyloid process are a little hol- low and rough, where the external pterygoid muscles are in- serted. There are two foramina on each side of the lower jaw. The larger situated at the origin of the coronoid and condyloid processes, gives passage to the principal part of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and to an artery which sup- plies the jaw, and a corresponding vein. A small sharp pro- cess frequently juts out backwards from the edge at the fore- part of this hole, to which„£ ligament extended from the tem- poral bone is fixed *. From ..the lower side of this hole, a small superficial canal or a furrow descends, in which a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve is lodged, in its way to the my- Weitbkecht Syndesmolog. fig. 321.