ELEMENTS OI:' ANATOMY. 296 The Os Hyoides, which is situated horizontally between the root of the tongue and the Larynx, bears some resem- blance to the Greek letter v, and has been described as con- sisting of a Body, Cornua, and Appendices. The body or the middle broad part is convex before, and hollow behind. The convex fore part is divided into two, by a ridge, into the middle of which the Mylo-hyoidei, and into the sides the Styh-hyoidei muscles are inserted. Above the ridge, the bone is horizontal, but pitted in the middle by the insertion of the two Genio-hyoidei muscles. Below the ridge it is convex, but made flat in the middle by the Stemo-hyoidei. The concavity behind faces backwards and downwards to re- ceive the Thyroid cartilage, when the Larynx and the os hyoides are pulled towards each other by the action of the Sterno-liyoidei and Hyo-tliyroidei muscles; and to its upper edge the ligamentous membranes of the Epiglottis, tongue, and Thyroid cartilage, are fixed. The Cornua of the * os hyoides are stretched backwards from each side of its body, where often a small furrow points out the former separation ; for in young subjects, the body and the Cornua are not one continued substance, as they come afterwards to be in adults. These Cornua are not al- ways straight, nor of equal length. Their two plain surfaces stand obliquely sloping from above outwards and downwards. Into the external, the Cerato-glossus is inserted above, and the Thyro-hyoideus muscle below ; and to the one behind, the ligamentous membrane of the tongue and Larynx adheres. Each of the Cornua becomes gradually smaller, as it is ex- tended from the base; but ends in a round tubercle, from which a moveable cartilage stands out, which is connected to the upper process of the-Cartilago Thyroidea. I had occasion to see an instance, in which a small bone nearly an inch long, united the extremities of the styloid processes with the cornua of the os hyoides. Where the body of the os hyoides joins on each side with its Cornua, a small styliform process, called Appendix f, * Crura, Latcra inferiora. -j- Crura superiora, Latcra superiora, Ossa granitbrmia.