583 OF BILIARY CALCULI. SECTION III. OF BILIARY CALCULI. Through the kind offices of Dr John Davy, I have been enabled to present to my readers the subjoined very valuable account of Biliary Calculi, which he was so polite as to draw up at my particular request. From the considerable attention paid, of late years, to ani- mal morbid concretions, several interesting facts have been discovered ; and I may remark, that the knowledge which has been acquired, though indeed purely chemical, and confined to the compositions of these substances, without throwing light on the mode of their generation, has not been destitute of use; as it has at least shewn what is to be avoided as inert or injurious in practice; and as it has at least dispelled many delusions, that ignorance previously led to, and thus certainly has been of no little advantage in medicine. As is always the case, those concretions have been most examined which have excited the liveliest interest. Urinary calculi are of this de- scription ; and their chemical and natural history is now pret- ty perfect. Other concretions, at the same time, of less con- sequence in relation to disease, have been much neglected; and their history remains very imperfect, or far from complete. Of this latter description I need not say are biliary calculi. Several circumstances have impeded our acquaintance with these bodies; their comparatively rare occurrence; their being seldom the cause of death ; the spontaneous cures that nature often produces ; their not admitting of extraction by surgical means ; and, lastly, no controversy of any general interest ha- ving yet arisen respecting either their formation, nature, or cure. The imperfect knowledge I allude to, is evident, on consult- ing the most recent systematic works; from which it appears that few species have yet been established, and some of these very imperfectly ; that human biliary concretions have almost alone been examined ; and, in fact, that much yet remains to be accomplished. Before proceeding to the descriptions of