OF THE SKULL. 185 process connected with the occiput behind, with which there is no internal corresponding concavity. The form of the skull is subservient to the improvement of the senses of vision and smell, and to the protection of the more delicate nerves, on which the senses depends. The skull is flat at the sides, in order that our sight might not be limited to those objects that are immediately before us. The superciliary ridges are so constructed as to protect the eye-balls, and to prevent the sweat of the brow from running into them; and the external angular processes jut outwards to protect the eye-balls. The brain can have no influence what- ever on the peculiar form of either of those parts of the frontal bone. The peculiar form of the bones around the nose, which con- tributes so much to improve the sense of smell, does not de- pend upon the brain, nor does it influence the form of the sinuses which communicate with the nose. There are also in all skulls two prominences in the frontal bone, one in each parietal bone, and one in the upper and largest portion of the occipital bone, at the original centres of ossification of these bones. The action of the temporal muscle must also be taken in- to account: in the Negro skull, and also in the Car lb skull, in which it is much thicker and much stronger than in the European, it must have a considerable effect in compressing the sides of the head. To this catalogue of external causes which materially influ- ence the form of the skull, may be added the effect of the customs of particular nations. The influence of external pressure is likewise to be taken into account, which is sometimes so great as to counterbalance the internal distention. The operation of external pressure partially applied, ought also to be taken into account. I do not pretend to dispute, that there is an original difference in the form of the skull. I am also fully persuaded, that much of this variety may fairly be imputed to the different means of compression, which the customs of different nations have introduced: hence the skull