122 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The human head is not equipoised on the atlas : it is some- what heavier before than behind, and therefore the chin drops down on the breast, when a person falls asleep, and when the extensor muscles of the head do not act. In most quadrupeds, the foramen magnum ossis occipitis is placed much farther back than in the human skull; the jaws are much elongated, the hind head scarcely projects beyond the spine; hence quadrupeds can readily seize their prey when it is before them, above or beneath them, by a trifling move- ment of the head. The skull, generally speaking, may be said to be of an oval form, somewhat broader behind than before, and flattened at the sides ; but there are many deviations from this form, which may be noticed by a careful examination, even a- mongst the skulls of persons of the^same nation, the same age, and the same sex. A still greater diversity of form is to be observed amongst the inhabitants of different parts of the globe. The distinctions between the skulls of different nations did not escape the observation of Hippocrates. They are also mentioned and commented upon by Hero- dotus, Aristotle and Pliny. In more modern times, much attention has been devoted to this very curious subject, by Vesalius, Haller, Buffon, Camper, Blumenbach, and other authors. This subject is well worthy of prosecution, as tending to bring to light many curious circumstances with regard to the history of mankind, by supplying data which may lead to the detection of the ori- gin of particular nations. Much caution is requisite in the prosecution of this in- quiry, for there are many sources of deception. In the Ji?'st place, In consequence of the great intercourse which commerce has established betwixt the various quarters of the world, and frequent intermarriage, the features pecu- liar to certain nations are gradually effaced, so as at length not to be discernible ; skulls, therefore, possessing the ge- nuine original characters of a nation arc not to be found. 2d, The distinctive characters of nations are frequently ini-