OF THE TEETH. 489 It is remarkable, that the teeth of some graminivorous ani- mals are sooner worn down than those of others. Those of sheep last but for seven or eight years; those of the ox for twenty years; those of a horse for thirty or forty years ; and those of the elephant for nearly a century. This latter animal is, during his whole life, provided with a constant succession of teeth *, through which the hard enamel winds, serving to ren- der the teeth more durable; and owing to its superiority in hardness to that of the bony part, rendering them, at the same time, more fit for mastication. Mr Corse, who discovered the above remarkable fact as to the structure of the elephant’s teeth many years ago was so polite as to send me a full ac- count of his discovery : and, to make use of his own words, “ That I did not, in my paper to the Royal Society, alter my opinion, in consequence of any communication with Di- Blake, or Mr (now Sir Everakd) Home, the following ex- tract of my letter to Mr Fairlie will shew.” “ My Dear Sir, Tipperah, Nov. 17. 1795. “ I have this day dispatched the two heads of elephants.— The structure of the grinders is very curious, being composed of a number of perpendicular strata, covered with a strong ena- mel, and each stratum is joined to another, by the common bony matter, which being softer than the enamel, wears away faster by the mastication of the food, leaving the enamelled parts considerably higher, so that each tooth soon assumes a ribbed appearance, as if originally formed with ridges. “ What I have now mentioned will appear very evident, from a slight inspection of the grinders in the lower jaw of the mooknah, where each of the posterior, or second teeth, had • Each of the milk grinders, which cuts the gum about ten days after birth, consists of four perpendicular teeth or lamina:, covered by enamel. These lami- na: are united only by membranes and soft parts, when first joined, and con- tained within the bony canal within the jaws; and they are joined by bony mat- ter before the tooth cuts the gum. As the anterior lamina: are worn down, others arc added from behind. The second set consists of eight or nine lamina:; the third set of twelve or thirteen, and so on, to the eighth set, when each grinder is made up of twenty-three lamina:. f Vide Phil. Trans. 1799,