53 OF THE FORMATION OF BONE. « I do not affirm that no vessels go in from the ends of the bones; but they are few, compared with those from without. « j^aVj we find vessels running from the callus to the mar- row ; and though we inflame the marrow, its vessels do not possess the power of generating bone, but rather form a sub- stance like the marrow. “ Next, upon taking out a part of any bone, as of the cra- nium, we do not find the hole filled up from the sides. « The sides do swell, from the irritation and inflammation; but there are first a number of vessels shooting from the pe- ricranium, or dura mater, (which is the pericranium within the skull,) and from the extremity of these, a plug is formed like a cork, which plugs up the hole.” My relation Dr Macdonald, who was a pupil of my Fa- ther, and heard him make the above observations, also made a number of very ingenious experiments, which led him to impute the formation of bone to the periosteum. The distinguished Haller affirmed, that the periosteum has no share in the formation of bone,—an opinion which was not taken up rashly, but deduced from experiment. Mr J. Hunter, in order “ to ascertain that the cylin- drical bones are not elongated by new matter being interposed in the interstices of the old, made the following experiment: He bored two holes in the tibia of a pig, one near the upper end, and the other near the lower; the space between the holes was exactly two inches; a small leaden shot was inserted into each hole. When the bone had been increased in its length by the growth of the animal, the pig was killed, and the space between the two shot was also exactly two inches *. ‘s This experiment was repeated several times on different pigs, but the space between the two shot was never increased during the growth of the bone.” There are many instances in which ossification must take place, independently of the periosteum. The ossification of the extremities of the bones which are in a state of epiphysis, begins in the very centre of the seem- * Sir Eterird Home’s Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. p. 65.