OF THE AMERICAN INDIANS. 22 L vation will not rigidly apply to the Western Indian, who cer- tainly possesses a greater verticality of profile. Agreeably to the mensurations of Dr Harlan, a cranium, which we obtained on the plains of the Platte, exhibits an angle of 78°, a Wabash male 78°, female 80°, and a Cher ole ee only 75*. “ The hair is coarse, black, glossy, and dense, upon the head, sparse and slender upon the chin, independently of the custom of extirpating it, but although the hair is certainly oval in its transverse section, yet we could not perceive that, in this respect, its proportions exceeded our own. “ The line of the direction of their eyes is nearly recti- linearlv transverse, being in this respect intermediate between the arcuated line of the eyes of the white man and that of the Indians of New Spain, who, according to Humboldt, have the corner of the eye directed upward towards the tem- ples. The nose is generally prominent, and either aquiline or Roman, with the wings not more dilated than those of white men. This form of nose is so prevalent, as to be re- garded as the most beautiful; it is no small compliment to tell a person that his nose is like that of a mule; and beauty is indicated in their language of signs, by placing an arcuated finger upon the face, in imitation of the aquiline curve. The pug nose, and the common form of the noses of the white Americans, of a concave outline, are regarded as remote from the standard of beauty. The lips are more tumid than those of the white Americans, but very far less so than those of the Negro. The lower jaw is large and robust; the teeth are very strong, with broad crowns. The chin is well formed. The cheek-bones are prominent, but not angular like those of the Mongul, and stamp a peculiarity on the contour of the face, characteristic of the American Indian. The expression of the countenance is austere, often ferocious The eloquence of the Indian is very remarkable. My dis- tinguished colleague the Reverend Dr Brown (who is about to publish a History of North America), read to me, with * Extract from vol. ii. of Edwin .James’s Expedition to the llocky Moun- tains. See also vol. iii. of the same Work, p. 244., in which several other tribes of Indians arc described.