594. ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. or three concentric layers of a light brown hue. Its specific gravity was greater than that of water; and it was found to consist chiefly of adipocire, with a very small portion of bile, and a still smaller proportion of brown matter. No. 15.—The form of this concretion was an irregular four sided pyramid. Its colour was a very dark chocolate hue, and in some parts almost black. The surface was part- ly smooth and shining, as if it had l'eceived a polish, and partly rough and vesicular, not unlike cinder. It was brittle, its fracture was slightly conchoidal and shining, and nearly black ; it was heavier than water. The quantity was not suf- ficient to admit of minute analysis. It was found to consist of brown matter, with a very small proportion of bile: the brown matter, from a few experiments that were made on it, appeared perfectly similar to that of the ox. No. 16.—This concretion was externally dark brown, and internally, in some parts, greenish, and in others, light red- dish brown. It was brittle, of a slight laminated structure, and conchoidal fracture. It seemed chiefly composed of brown matter, a little bile, and still less adipocire. No. 17—This concretion, which was passed peranum, was about the size of a pigeon’s egg. It was externally co- vered with a whitish mould, too delicate to be examined, and it was composed of concentric layers, readily admitting of se- paration; they were brittle, of a slightly conchoidal fracture, and of a shining chocolate polour. It was of specific gravity 1180. It consisted of about 85. Brown matter. 15. Bile and water. 100. No. 18.—These concretions, three in number, were exa- mined immediately after they were taken from the gall-blad- der of a recent subject. They were small, and of an irregu- lar oval form; their colour was impure yellow externally, and internally dark brown ; they had little lustre, a greasy feel, and both the surface and the brown nucleus had a strong taste of bile. They appeared to consist of a large portion of