550 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. intestines; and there is a ring around the lower extremity of the rectum, which consists of deep cavities, separated from each other by ridges; or there is a glandular appearance at this place, which may be constantly observed. The rectum is also largely supplied with blood, by the in- ferior mesenteric, and internal haemorrhoidal arteries, as there is a necessity for a large secretion of mucus for the defence of the rectum against the acrimony of its contents. The veins of the rectum are large and numerous. In consequence of the straining at stool, the veins of the rectum are frequently so much compressed and distended, as to occasion the formation of piles: these piles are often re- moved by the daily use of laxative medicines, -which render such straining of the muscular fibres of the rectum, in expel- ling its contents unnecessary. Malconforraation of the rectum is by no means very uncom- mon. In the “ Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines,” I have published various instances in which the external aperture was awanting. From what has been stated as to the structure of the seve- ral coats of the intestines, it follows, that the bowels must be liable to several organic derangements, independently of those connected with a displacement of particular portions of the intestines. They are liable to those kinds of inflammation which are peculiar to serous and mucous membranes, and to the mus- cular fibre. As there is a considerable quantity of cellular substance between the muscular and villous coats of the intes- tine, and especially around the verge of the anus, pus is often formed in it; and in the case of the rectum, by bursting in- wardly or outwardly, or in both directions, fistulous orifices are formed. The alimentary canal is liable to constriction, by the or- ganic derangements of its different constituent coats, or by or- ganiC- derangements originating in the glands proper to it. The stricture is temporary or permanent; the former origi- nating fron3 a spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat, the latter from a permanent organic derangement of some part of she alimentary ccmal.