elements of ANATOMY. 352 many instances, different from that of the muscles; for there are many muscles with rectilinear tendons, and also tendons with rectilinear fibres, common to two muscles, the fibres of which have different degrees of obliquity. There are many muscles in which the tendon occupies the middle of the muscle, and the fibres are placed obliquely with respect to the tendon, like the plume of a pen. Such muscles have been named Penniform Muscles. There are other mus- cles, in which the tendons are situated at the sides of the mus- cles ; these have been called Semipenniform ; and in some muscles several penniform muscles are combined, which have been named Compound Penniform Muscles. The tendons are subservient to various purposes. lstf, They serve to unite the cartilages and bones to each other; as where they supply the place of the external inter- costal muscles, or where they unite the bones of the fore-arm or of the leg to each other. %d, Tendons add to the strength of the capsular ligaments. 3d, The tendinous aponeuroses, as the fasciae of the supe- rior and inferior extremities, are conducive to the symmetry of the body, and particularly to that of the limbs, and also to the defence of the muscles. 4th, The tendinous aponeuroses not only defend the mus- cles, but increase greatly the surfaces from which the muscu- lar fibres take their origin ; of which there are many examples in the back, and in the extremities of the body, in the fore- arms, thighs and legs ; and, in some places, there are two or more muscles, the fibres of which are differently directed, and subservient to different purposes, taking their origin from the opposite sides of the same tendinous membrane. 5th, There are rounded tendinous cords, which serve to con- nect muscles to distant bones, where there is not room for the bellies of all the muscles which are necessary for the motion of the joints ; and without such a medium of attachment, the joints must have been unwieldy and of great bulk, and there might have been the risk of the muscles interfering with each other, or of their proving injurious to the neighbouring blood- vessels and nerves.