OF THE TEETH. 479 gum covers the transverse partitions between the teeth, and is fixed to the sides of the necks of the teeth; and hence, when the gum is destroyed, the teeth seem larger. The gum pos- sesses a certain degree of elasticity, and retracts when divided. The gum possesses in its healthy state but little sensibility; but when much stretched and inflamed, as during dentition, it causes exquisite pain, convulsions, and even death. The use of the gum, is to fix the teeth more firmly in the jaws. In the adult, there are sixteen teeth in each jaw; in all thirty- two ; but sometimes only twenty-eight or thirty. The teeth of the upper jaw are placed nearly perpendicu- larly in respect to the skull, whereas those of the under jaw incline a little inwards. The human teeth resemble those of a carnivorous and graminivorous animal. The periosteum only covers the roots of the teeth, other- wise it must have been liable to be bruised during manduca- tion. Each tooth consists of a body, and of one or more roots; and between these there is a contracted portion, which has been called the neck or collar of the tooth. The roots of the teeth are implanted within the alveolar processes of the jaws which are spongy bones, in the same manner as a nail is inserted into a piece of wood ; or they are fixed into the jaw by what anatomists call gomphosis. The sponginess of the jaw prevents the teeth from being readily broken during manducation. The roots of the teeth are fixed to the alveolar processes by the periosteum, which lines the sockets, and is reflected upon the roots of the teeth, as far as the collar of the tooth, where it is attached to the gums, which covers the alveolar processes, and is perforated by the teeth. The length of the roots of different teeth is various; those of the dog-teeth are the longest in the human body, and next to them those of the front teeth of the upper jaw. The roots of the grinding teeth are the shortest, and di- verge at a considerable angle from the body of the tooth. The smaller grinders of the upper jaw have three roots. The larger four ; but these, from the vicinity of the antrum maxil-