353 RELAXATION OF MUSCLES. of contraction, fatigue is occasioned; the muscle remains at first firm, but in time a little quivering is felt; and, when a muscle is exhausted, alternate contractions and relaxations may be observed, excepting in cases of spasmodic contraction, such as is induced by tetanus. In one form of spasm, the arm may be put into a posture which it will preserve for some time. The muscles which are commonly called voluntary, as those of the limbs, may remain in the state of relaxation for a number of hours ; and a sphincter muscle, such as a sphincter ani, may continue for the same number of hours in a state of contraction; and hence the voluntary muscles or the sphincter muscles cannot be said to be in an alternate state of contrac- tion and relaxation, as we possess the power of throwing our muscles into that state which is most conducive to our safety and convenience. The heart and the intercostal muscles are perhaps more completely relaxed than the ordinary muscles, in order that the blood and the air may enter the heart and lungs more freely. The relaxation of the voluntary muscles is less complete, or in a sort of middle state, such as makes them ready for a greater degree of either state, without requiring such an exer- tion as exhausts the nervous energy. A moderate degree of contraction is constantly taking place in all our muscles, as is evident in those of the face in the case of hemiplegia, the diseased side being evidently much more relaxed than the sound. There are many striking peculiarities as to the contractions and relaxations of muscles. There are some muscles in which we seldom or never experience fatigue, as the heart and mus- cles of respiration. There are others which, if alternately contracted and relaxed, are not fatigued, as those of the fin- gers and toes; but fatigue is soon felt if fingers or toes are kept contracted, even for a short time; and thus, also, the muscles of the larynx may be alternately exerted without fatigue for a considerable time, but if one sound be kept up, even for a short time, we feel fatigued. lhe muscles of the back of the neck and back support the head and trunk of the body erect for a whole day, and are equipoised by the muscles of the belly, but if the head or