FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 411 “ 'When we have examined in the very young subject, the structure of the external orifice through which the cord passes, we have seen all that is most worthy of notice; for, in the very earlv part of life, the inguinal canal is not formed. In proof of which, take a new-born male, in whom the tunica vaginalis communicates with the cavity of the abdomen, and make a puncture into the former, through which one of the blades of a pair of scissars is to be inti'oduced, and passed into the belly ; then all that portion of the tunica vaginalis, which is above the puncture, is to be snipped through. By doing this, we lay the abdomen and tunica vaginalis into one; and we at first glance perceive whether the cord, at this early period of life, passes in an oblique direction between the muscles and trans- versalis fascia. “ I have never observed the cord in any obvious degi ee oblique in its course; in an infant at birth, it runs in a straight line from the psoas muscle to the bottom of the scrotum. “ It passes through a mere aperture. “ When, however, we take a subject even a month old, and treat it in the same way, we find then a very apparent obli- quity in the course of the cord. As, however, it is very rare to meet with an infant of that age, in whom the tunica vagi- nalis remains pervious, we may, where its canal is obliterated, by slitting up Camper’s Fascia, and entering the blade of a sharp-pointed pair of scissars into the lower outlet of the canal, pass it up till it appears in contact with that part of the peri- toneum which invests the cord at that spot where it passes from the abdomen. If we divide completely what is between the blades, we expose fairly the degree of obliquity of the Cord. “ If we examine, in a similar way, subjects of different ages, we find that the older they become, till they arrive near the age of puberty, so much the longer does the inguinal canal be- come. “It may here be worth while to inquire, how the canal comes to be formed, and what changes take place on the neigh- bouring parts. As I have already mentioned, the upper and lower openings of the foetal ring are opposite to each other, and