OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 471 in short, he is qualified to live in every variety of climate, soil, and situation. The length, diameter, and structure of the coats of the alimentary canal, and the manner in which the different parts of that canal communicate with one another, which is more or less favourable to the exit or detention of the food, are by no means the same in different animals, and bear a relation to the kind of food. Thus, the alimentary canal of a graminivor- ous animal is not only much longer, and more complicated in its structure, but also much more capacious than that of a carni- vorous animal, whose food contains more nourishment in smaller compass, and is more readily digested. The alimentary canal of an animal designed to live partly on vegetable and partly on animal food, holds a middle place between that of a carnivorous and graminivorous animal. In this class Man is included ; and, when the individual reaches to maturity, the alimentary canal is generally between thirty and thirty-six feet long. In some of the lower animals, no alimentary canal is found, as in the tape-worm that infests the human intestines. Their vessels suck in their nourishment, which becomes nutri- tious in the vessels themselves, as in the vegetable kingdom. The round hydatid is an animal also of a very simple struc- ture : it is probably nourished from without by absorption, and the bag is probably the stomach. There is still another class of animals which bear a very strong resemblance to vegetables, as to the mode in which they are nourished, which have been therefore called root-mouthed, or rhizostome. There are apertures in their members, and these lead to tubes which open into a common cavity. Some animals, as the Actinia associnia, consist of little else than a stomach. In other animals, the alimentary canal is of a very simple structure, consisting chiefly or solely of a bag, into which the food is received, and of an aperture through which it is discharged. But, in the higher classes of animals, it is more complex in its form and apparatus, being of considerable length, and enlarged in one or more places to con- stitute a stomach or stomachs; and in such animals, the term