FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 409 concerned in the inguinal and crural hernia?, there is a branch of the subject which has not yet been explained to the medi- cal world,—I mean the gradual formation of the inguinal canal. Having found that the late Mr Allan Burns of Glasgow, had devoted a great deal of attention to this branch of the o subject, I requested of him to favour me with his observe tions; with which request he readily complied, and, by his permission, I have inserted these in his own words. “ When we remove carefully all the cellular membrane from over the external oblique muscle, we still find the mus- cular fibres covered by an aponeurotic expansion, which, to- ward the lower part of the belly, branches off into two processes. One plate we trace descending along the thigh, investing the glands, and forming the subcutaneous fascia; the other turns inwards, and incorporates itself with the fatty ligamentous substance found above the pubes, and adhering in males to the ligamentum suspensorium penis; and, in females, to the ligament of the clitoris. Camper, the celebrated Dutch ana- tomist, adds, “ et inyolucrum dat musculo cremasteri.’ Sir Astley Cooper also describes most accurately the fascia, which he represents as originating from the aponeurosis of the oblique muscle, and investing the tunica vaginalis, form- ing for it a sheath. This fascia is naturally not very strong, but in hernia it is sometimes immensely thickened. In one specimen of this disease in my possession, it is fully a quarter of an inch thick. “ When we divide longitudinally the sheath of the cre- master, or Camper’s fascia, we bring into view the tunica vaginalis, covering the spermatic cord ; and if we trace the latter up toward the abdomen, we lose it where it enters the lower orifice of the inguinal canal. “In the foetus, or new-born male, we find that the tendon of the external oblique muscle, at its inferior and anterior part, separates into two pillars, which leave between them an irregular opening, through which the cord passes. One of these pillars runs below the cord, the other above it. Both pillars tend obliquely downward and forward, inclining to-