PROPORTIONS OF THE 1JODY. 13 bv Mr Byres, who visited many of the cemeteries at Rome, that the skeletons he saw did not exceed the size of men of this day. Deviations from the usual size are much more rare amongst the inferior animals; it is very rare to see a horse or an ox of an extraordinary size. The proportions of the several parts of the body vary much in different individuals: much has been written upon propor- tions by different authors. Acdran took great pains in measuring the Greek statues, according-to the rules given by Vitruvius, from the writings of the best Greek artists; but this is an investigation which is rather curious than useful, because the sculptors of Greece did not adhere to any one proportion, but varied it according to the subject to be represented. Thus, the statue of Apollo is strong, but slender; that of Mercury more athletic; and that of the Faun, though equally so, has not the same pro- portions, being shorter than any of the above. The difference in the proportions of the Hercules Farnese is still more remarkable. His short neck and loins, the great breadth of the shoulders, the broad and highly arched foot, a very prominent heel, indicate great strength, but little speed or agility: whereas speed and agility are characterised by the length of the neck and loins, the length of the thighs, and by a narrower and longer foot. The proportions of different parts of the body vary much not only in different individuals, but also at different periods of life, and in different nations. Leonardo da Vinci, who profoundly investigated this subject, has justly said, “ All the parts of any animal should correspond to its whole, viz. whatever is short and thick, ought to have all its members short and thick : that which is long and slender, should have its members long and slender: and the middle-sized should have their members of the same mediocrity.” From this and other directions, it appears that when Leonardo speaks of proportions, we must understand that he reasons about agreement of the parts of an individual, rather than of a general rule of imitation respecting measures. And he has added, “ It never happens, that in any species