elements of ANATOMY7 388 from the uppermost piece of the sternum, and the other from the sternal extremity of the collar bone. The two heads of the muscle are soon united, and form a thick muscle, with ob- lique fibres, which is fixed into the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The relation of this muscle, in respect to the subclavian artery merits notice ; it has been faithfully described by Mr A. Burns. “ The natural connections of these parts are best shown by merely raising the sternal extremity of the sterno-mastoid muscle. If this be done, the nervus vagus will be brought into view, lying on the fore-part of the subclavian artery, al- most directly behind the sternal end of the clavicle, and ex- actly opposite to the nervus vagus; but behind the artery, the lower cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve will be brought into view. The recurrent nerve, on the right side, hooks round the subclavian artery, and in its course toward the larynx, ascends along the tracheal side of the sympathetic nerve. On the left side it twines round the arch of the aorta, and in mounting upward, is interposed between the subcla- vian artery, and the oesophagus. The subclavian vein lies anterior to the artery, and in the collapsed state, sinks nearer to the thorax. “ This is its usual position in the dead body, but in the living person its relation to the artery is constantly changing. Alternately it is flaccid and full; in the first state it bears the same relation to the artery as in the dead subject; under the latter circumstance it swells out quite tense, and ascends, so as in some measure, to overhang and conceal the artery. The thoracic duct enters the subclavian vein about an eighth of an inch nearer to the acromion than the point where the in- ternal jugular vein empties itself into the subclavian vein. The termination of the thoracic duct is situated between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. “ I have been thus particular in the description of the parts connected with the subclavian artery, between its origin and the scaleni muscles; because, one who knows their position, and is aware of their importance, will correctly estimate the