OF THE OS CUNEIFOKME INTERNUM. 2.01 hind, where it is joined to the os naviculare, is hollow,, smooth, and of a circular figure below, hut pointed a- bove. The external side consists of two smooth and flat sur- faces, placed nearly at right angles Avith each other. With the posterior, that runs obliquely from below fonvards and up- wards, the os cuneiforme minimum is joined ; and with the anterior, whose direction is longitudinal, the os metatarsi of the toe next to the great one is connected. The fore part of this bone is semilunar, but flat and smooth, for sustaining the os metatarsi of the great toe. The internal side is scabrous, with two remarkable tubercles below, from Avhich the mus- culus abductor pollicis rises; and the tibialis anticus is insert- ed into its upper part. The three cuneiform bodies are so strongly united by liga- ments, that they possess very little motion ; and they are carti- laginous in a foetus of nine months. These seven bones of the tarsus, Avhen joined, are convex above, and concave below ; thus the several muscles, tendons, and vessels, that lie in the sole of the foot, are safely lodged. And in the recent subject, their upper and loAver surfaces are covered, and strongly united by other strong ligaments. Notwithstanding the many surfaces covered Avith cartilage, some of which are of the form of the very moveable articula- tions, no more motion is here allowed, than is sufficient to prevent too great a shock in walking, leaping, &c., by falling- on too solid a base ; and, in order that our foot may be ac- commodated to the surfaces, by becoming more or less hol- low, or by raising or depressing either side of it. The move- ments of the astragalus, os calcis and naviculare, are not so limited. By these the foot is turned inwards' and outAvards, and when the internal edge is depressed, and its external edge elevated, the os naviculare glides upon the head of the astra- galus. The os naviculare and cuboidcs move a little upAvards and downwards on the astragalus and os calcis.