ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 48 S addition of roots to the teeth, the tooth cuts the gum, but the tooth is not complete when it appears through the gum. Of the Formation of the Enamel. The enamel is secreted by the outer membrane of the cap- sule of the pulp, and is deposited, under the guidance of a membranous case, when the ossification of the body of the tooth has been in part completed. The enamel, when first formed, is so soft that it may be scraped by the nail, and seems, in the tooth of the elephant, to consist of small crys- tals. The enamel is at first perfect on the cutting edges, or protuberances, of the tooth ; and it does not extend beyond the neck of the tooth. The enamel continues to be secreted, as long as the teeth are contained in their capsules. The mem- brane which secretes the enamel is but of temporary duration: after having performed its office it disappears. The teeth, by becoming larger within their sockets, stretch, and at length burst their capsules, which are removed by absorption. The gum is also removed, and the tooth appears through it: hence all that portion of membrane which loosely surrounded the body of the tooth is destroyed, when the tooth has risen to its proper height. The bony part of the tooth, however, con- tinues to grow after the teeth have cut the gum : about one- third of the length of the root is added, by which the tooth is elevated, and cuts the gum. The enamel gives a partial covering only to the teeth of some animals, as the glires. It covers only the anterior sur- faces of the teeth of these animals: hence, as the osseous parts of the teeth are softer than the enamel, it wears down faster, and therefore the teeth are always sharp, and fit for use. But in the grinding teeth of animals that live on vegetable mat- ter chiefly, as in those of the horse, elephant and ox, the several plates of enamel pass down from the crown to the bot- tom of the tooth, between the bony substance of the tooth, in a winding direction; and, besides, there is in the body of the tooth another substance, which unites the layers of the tooth, which was discovered and fully described by my pupil Dr Blake, under the name CrnsLi Petrosa, which is deposited by the same capsule as the enamel.