762 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM in which cell-bodies of neurones, non-medullated axones, and supporting tissue pre- dominate have a darker or greyish appearance, and are known as grey substance. The spinal cord consists of a continuous, centrally placed column of grey substance surrounded by a variously thickened tunic of white substance. The closely invest- ing pia mater sends numerous ingrowths into the cord, bearing blood-vessels and contributing to its internal supporting tissue. The volume of white and of grey substance varies both absolutely and relatively at different levels of the cord. The absolute amount of grey substance increases with the enlargements. The absolute amount of white substance also increases with the enlargements coincident with the greater amount of grey substance in those regions. The relative amount of white substance increases in passing from the conus medullaris to the medulla oblongata, due to the fact that the ascending and descending axones connecting the cord with the encephalon are contributed at different levels of the cord along its entire course. The grey substance.—In the embryo all the nerve-cells of the grey substance are derived from the cells lining the neural tube, and in the adult the column of grey substance, though greatly modified in shape, still retains its position about the cen- tral canal. In transverse section the column appears as a grey figure of two laterally developed halves, connected across the mid-line by a more attenuated portion, the whole roughly resembling the letter H. The cross-bar of the H is known as the grey commissure. Naturally, it contains the central canal, which is quite small and is either rounded or laterally or ventrally oval in section, according to the level of the cord in which it is examined. The canal continues upwards, and in the medulla oblongata opens out into the fourth ventricle. Downwards, in the extremity of the conus medullaris, it widens slightly and forms the rhomboidal sinus or termi- nal ventricle, then is suddenly constricted into an extremely small canal extending a short distance into the filum terminate, and there ends blindly. The grey com- missure always lies somewhat nearer the ventral than the dorsal surface of the cord, and itself contains a few medullated axones which vary in amount in the different regions of the cord. Of these, the axones crossing the mid-line on the ventral side of the central canal form the ventral or anterior white commissure; those, usually much fewer in number, crossing on the dorsal side of the central canal, form the dorsal or posterior white commissure. The axones of these commissures serve in functionally associating the two lateral halves of the grey column. Each lateral half of the grey column presents a somewhat crescentic or comma- shaped appearance in transverse section, which also varies at the different levels of the cord. At all levels each half presents two vertical, well-defined horns, them- selves spoken of as columns of grey substance. The dorsal horn, or columna poste- rior, extends posteriorly and somewhat laterally towards the surface of the cord along the line of the postero-lateral sulcus. It is composed of an apex (caput) and a neck (cervix). In structure the apex is peculiar. The greater portion of it consists of a mass of small nerve-cells and neuroglia tissue, among which a gelatinous substance of questionable origin predominates, giving the horn a semi-translucent appearance. This is designated as gelatinous substance of Rolando, to distinguish it from a similar appearance immediately about the central canal (central gelatinous substance). The apex of the dorsal horn is widest in the regions of the enlargements, and the gelatinous substance of Rolando is most marked in the cervical region. In these regions the cervix consists of a slight constriction of the dorsal horn between the apex and the line of the grey commissure. In the thoracic region, however, the base of the cervix is the thickest part of the dorsal horn. This thickness is due to the presence there of the nucleus dorsalis, or Clarke's column—a column of grey sub- stance containing numerous nerve-cells of larger size than elsewhere in the dorsal horn, and extending between the seventh cervical and third lumbar segments of the cord. Tapering finely at its ends, this nucleus attains its height in the lower tho- acic or first lumbar segment. About the ventral periphery of the nucleus dorsalis ire scattered nerve-cells of the same type as contained in it. These cells compose itilling's nucleus. They are more numerous about the lower extremity of the lucleus dorsalis, and they continue to appear below its termination in the lumbar ^gion. The ventral horn, or columna anterior, of each lateral half of the grey figure is rected ventrally towards the surface of the spinal cord, pointing towards the antero- eral sulcus. It contains the cell-bodies which give origin to the efferent or ven- i r »ot axones, and these axones make their emergence from the spinal cord along