761 THE SPINAL CORD right and left halves by the broad anterior median fissure into which the pia mater is duplicated, and opposite this, on the dorsal surface, by the posterior median sul- cus. Along the lower two-thirds of the cord this sulcus is merely a septum; in the medulla oblongata it opens up and attains the character of a fissure, and finally becomes continuous into the fourth ventricle. Each of the two lateral halves of the cord is marked off into a posterior, lateral, and anterior division by two other longitudinal sulci. Of these, the postero-lateral sulcus occurs as a slight groove 2 to 3£ mm. lateral from the posterior median sulcus, and is the groove in which the dorsal roots enter the cord in regular linear series. The ventral division is separated from the lateral by the antero-lateral sulcus. This is rather an irregular, linear area than a sulcus. It is from 1 to 2 mm. broad, and represents the area along which the efferent fibres make their exit from the cord to be assembled into the respec- tive ventral roots. This area varies in width according to the size of the nerve-roots, and, like the postero-lateral sulcus, its distance from the mid-line varies according to locality, being greatest on the enlargements of the cord. In the cervical region, and in part of the thoracic, the posterior division is subdivided by a delicate longi- tudinal groove, the postero-intermediate sulcus, which becomes more evident towards the medulla oblongata and represents the line of demarcation between the fasciculus gracilis and the fasciculus cuneatus. Occasionally in the upper cervical Fig. 568.—A, Ventral, and B, Dorsal, Views of Portion of Spinal Cord showing Modes of Attachment of Dorsal and Ventral Roots. ANTERO-LATERAL SULCUS {line of ventral roots) POSTERIOR MEDIAN SULCUS region a similar line may be seen along the ventral aspect close to the anterior median fissure. This is the antero-intermediate sulcus, forming the lateral boundary of the ventral pyramidal fasciculus. Collectively, the entire space between the posterior median sulcus and the line of attachment of the dorsal roots is occupied by the posterior funiculus; the lateral space between the line of attachment of the dorsal and that of the ventral roots, by the lateral funiculus; and the space between the ventral roots and the anterior median fissure, by the anterior funiculus. Each of these funiculi is subdivided into its component fasciculi. The dorsal and ventral nerve-roots are not attached to the cord as such, but are first frayed out into numerous thread-like bundles of axones which are distributed along their lines of entrance and exit. These bundles are the root filaments (fila radicularia) of the respective roots. The fila of the larger spinal nerves are fanned out to the extent of forming almost continuous lines of attachment, while in the thoracic nerves there are appreciable intervals between those of adjacent roots. Throughout, the intervals are less between the fila of the ventral than between those the dorsal roots. Internal structure of the spinal cord.—By reflected light masses of medul- lated axones appear white, and such masses are known as white substance. Masses