THE FORNIX 847 bounded externally by the anterior end of the calcarine fissure, and is associated with the forward turn of the cingulum. The hippocampus is the name applied to the curved appearances produced in the floor of the lateral ventricle by the peculiar foldings of this part of the cerebral cortex. The hippocampcd gyrus is the main gyrus of the tentorial surface of the limbic lobe. Externally it is separated from the fusiform gyrus by the collateral fissure, and it is bounded internally by the hippocampal or dentate fissure. Poste- riorly it is partially divided by the calcarine fissure into the lingual gyrus (of the tempo- ral lobe) and the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus. Its anterior extremity is hooked backwards and is known as the uncus. This is almost entirely separated from the temporal lobe by a groove, the temporal notch. If the hippocampal fissure be opened up, the dentate fascia or gyrus and the fimbria will be seen. These lie side by side, separated by the shallow fimbrio-dentate sulcus. The free edge of the dentate gyrus presents a peculiarly notched appearance, produced by numerous parallel grooves cutting it transversely. Its posterior end, sometimes called the fasciola cinerea, continues backwards over the splenium of the corpus callosum, and upon the upper surface of the corpus callosum appears as a thin strip of grey substance which contains embedded in it the medial and lateral longitudinal strice. This thin strip is sometimes called the supracallosal gyrus, and is thought to represent a vestigial part of the hippocampal gyrus. The fimbria is but the fimbriated, free border of the posterior or end of origin of the fornix, so folded as to project into the hippocampal fissure, parallel with the dentate fascia. It is a conspicuous band composed almost entirely of white substance, continuous laterally with the thick stratum covering the ventricular surface of the hippocampus. It begins anteriorly in the hook or recurved extremity of the uncus. Traced backwards, it is seen to curve upwards, and within the ventricle it becomes part of the general accumulation of the white sub- stance (alveus) of the surface of the hippocampus, which accumulation is the be- ginning of the fornix. The free border of the fimbria (seen in section) is known as the taenia -fimbria;. The fimbria is separated from the cerebral peduncles by the chorioid fissure, the thin, non-nervous floor of which alone intervenes between the exterior of the brain and the cavity of the lateral ventricle. The hippocampal fissure attains its greatest depth between the dentate fascia and the hippocampal gyrus, and the resulting eminence produced in the floor of the lateral ventricle is known as the hippocampus major, as distinguished from the lesser eminence produced posteriorly by the end of the calcarine fissure and known as the hippocampus minor (calcar avis). The collateral fissure may likewise produce a bulging in the wall of the ventricle, the collateral eminence. In transverse sections of the hippocampus major, the layers of grey and white substance .present a coiled ap- pearance known as the cornu ammonis. Externally the medial surface of the hippocampal gyrus adjoining the dentate fascia has reflected over it a delicate re- ticular layer of white substance known as the substantia reticularis alba (Arnoldi). The fornix is the great association pathway of the limbic lobe, and is largely concerned in the apparatus of the rhinencephalon. It is a bilateral structure arched beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is connected anteriorly by the septum pellucidum. Posteriorly it passes in contact with the splenium. It consists of two prominent strips of white substance, one for each hemisphere, the ends of which are separate from each other, while their intermediate parts are fused across the mid-line. These run above the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle, and their lateral edges' (taeniae fornicis) rest, on each side, along the line of the taenia chorioidea. The posterior, separate ends are known as the posterior pillars or crura of the fornix; the fused, intermediate portion is the body, and the separate, anterior ends are the an- terior pillars or columns of the fornix. The posterior pillars or crura of the fornix.—When seen from the medial aspect of the hemisphere, the fused portion of the fornix, in the separation of the hemispheres, is split along the mid-line (fig. 619). The half under examination may be seen to course obliquely outwards under the splenium of the corpus callosum, and then, continuous with the fimbria, to curve forwards and downwards towards the uncus. The greater mass of the fibres coursing in the fornix arise as outgrowths of the cells of the uncus, hippocampal gyrus, and dentate fascia. They accumulate as a dense stratum on the ventricular surface of these gyri, termed the alveus, which crops outwards as the fimbria and which passes backwards and upwards; upon reach- ing the region of the splenium it turns obliquely forwards under it and approaches the