972 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (d) The anterior auricular branches, usually two in number, are distributed to the skin of the tragus and the upper and outer part of the pinna. (e) The superficial temporal branches supply the integument of the greater part of the temooral region, and anastomose with the temporal branch of the seventh nerve. THE GANGLIA CONNECTED WITH THE BRANCHES OF THE TRIGEMINUS In addition to the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion, which represents the ganglion of the dorsal root of a nerve of spinal type, four other ganglia are connected with the branches of the trigeminus. They are the ciliary, the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion, the otic, and the submaxillary. All these ganglia correspond both struc- turally and developmentally with the sympathetic ganglia, and they are to be looked upon as such. They are vagrant ganglia which separated from the embryonic semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion at an early period of development and have become associated with the branches of the fifth nerve, receiving fibres which pass through them and constitute the so-called sensory roots of the ganglia. Each ganglion also receives a motor root from a cranial nerve, most of the fibres of which root terminate about its cells and each is connected with the sympathetic plexus on an adjacent artery. The Ciliary Ganglion The ciliary, lenticular, or ophthalmic ganglion, lies in the posterior part of the orbital cavity, about 6 mm. in front of the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure, to the outer side of the optic nerve, and between the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle. It is a small, reddish, quadrangular body, compressed laterally, and it measures about two millimetres from before backwards (fig. 701). Roots.—(a) Its motor or short root enters its lower and posterior angle and is derived from the branch of the lower division of the oculomotor nerve which sup- plies the inferior oblique muscle. (b) The sensory or long root enters the upper and back part of the ganglion. It is a branch of the naso-ciliary (nasal) nerve. (c) The sympathetic root consists of fibres derived from the cavernous plexus of the sjTnpathetic; it passes to the ganglion with the long root. Branches.—From six to eight short ciliary nerves emerge from the anterior border of the ganglion; they divide as they pass forwards and eventually form about twenty nerves which are arranged in an upper and a lower group, and the latter group is joined by the long ciliary branches of the naso-ciliary (nasal) nerve (fig. 701). When they reach the eyeball, the ciliary nerves pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, and pass forward in grooves on the inner surface of the sclera. They are distributed to the ciliary muscle, the iris, and the cornea. The Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion This ganglion is associated with the maxillary nerve (fig. 702). It is a small reddish-grey body of triangular form, which is flattened at the sides, and measures about five millimetres from before backwards. It lies deeply in the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa at the outer side of the spheno-palatine foramen and in front of the anterior end of the pterygoid (Vidian) canal. It is attached to the maxillary nerve, from which it receives its sensory root, and it is connected with the Vidian nerve, which furnishes it with motor and sympathetic filaments. Roots.—(a) It is generally believed that the motor root is the great superficial petrosal nerve which is incorporated in the Vidian nerve. It springs from the an- terior angle of the geniculate ganglion and passes through the hiatus canalis facialis (hiatus Fallopii) into the middle fossa of the cranium, where it runs forwards and in- wards, in a groove on the upper surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, to the foramen lacerum, and in this part of its course it passes beneath the semi- lunar (Gasserian) ganglion and the motor root of the fifth nerve. In the foramen lacerum it joins with the great deep petrosal nerve to form the Vidian nerve (nerve of the pterygoid canal), which passes forwards through the pterygoid (Vidian) canal and terminates in Meckel's ganglion in the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa. The great superficial petrosal nerve contains sensory and possibly also motor fibres.