THE CERVICAL SYMPATHETIC GANGLIA 1005 given off by the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion. The cephalic ganglia are all relatively small. There are four considered in the ordinary macroscopic dissec- tions, namely, the ciliary or ophthalmic, the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion, the otic, and the submaxillary. These ganglia with their roots or communicating branches have been described in detail in their conne'ctions with the divisions of the trigeminus and with the oculo-motor and facial nerves. The internal carotid nerve, the ascending branch from the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion, may be regarded as an upward prolongation of the primitive sympathetic trunk. It arises from the upper end of the superior cervical ganglion and passes through the carotid canal into the cranial cavity. It divides into two branches which subdivide to form a coarse plexus, the internal carotid plexus, which partly surrounds the internal carotid artery before the latter enters the cavernous sinus (fig. 719). It passes with the artery to the cavernous sinus, where it forms the finer meshed cavernous plexus. The internal carotid plexus supplies offsets to the artery and receives communi- cating branches from the tympanic plexus through the inferior carotico-tympanic nerve and from the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great deep petrosal nerve. It also communicates by fine branches with the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion and with the sixth cranial nerve. The cavernous plexus gives branches of communication to the oculo-motor and trochlear nerves and to the ophthalmic division of the trigeminus. According to Toldt and Spalteholz, it communicates with the tympanic plexus through the superior carotico-tympanic (small deep petrosal) nerve. It also communicates with the ciliary ganglion through the long root of the ciliary ganglion. These branches may pass through the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure either separately or with the naso-ciliary (nasal) nerve. The cavernous plexus also gives branches to the carotid artery and filaments of the plexus accompany small branches of the artery to the hypophysis (pituitary body) and to the dura mater on the sphenoid bone. The terminal branches of the cavernous plexus consist of delicate filaments that anastomose freely, forming fine plexuses, and pass from the cavernous plexus along the terminal divisions of the internal carotid artery and their branches. These fine plexuses take the name of the artery on which they lie. The four larger of them are the plexuses of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, the plexus of the chorioid artery, and the ophthalmic plexus. The cervical portion of the sympathetic cord extends upwards along the great vessels of the neck. No white rami communicantes connect it directly with the spinal cord, but instead it receives splanchnic efferent fibres from the upper thoracic spinal nerves through the sympathetic trunk, and probably also from the cervical spinal cord through the spinal accessory nerve and the connections with the vagus. It sends grey rami communicantes to each of the cervical nerves. It extends from the subclavian artery to the base of the skull, lying behind the sheath of the great vessels and in front of the longus capitis and longus colli, which separate it from the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae (fig. 719). It usually has but three ganglia, one at each end, the superior and inferior, and one between these two, called the middle ganglion. The latter varies somewhat in position and is sometimes absent. Superior Cervical Ganglion The superior cervical ganglion is usually fusiform in shape and is sometimes marked by one or more constrictions. There is ground for the belief that it is formed by the coalescence of four ganglia corresponding to the first four cervical nerves. It varies from an inch to one and one-half inches (2"5 to 3"7 cm.) in length, lying behind the upper part of the sheath of the great vessels of the neck and in front of the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebrae. It occasionally ex- tends upwards as high as the transverse process of the first vertebra (fig. 719). It is connected with the middle cervical ganglion by the intervening trunk, and it gives off a large number of communicating branches. Communications:—(1) Four grey rami communicantes connect the ganglion with the anterior primary divisions of the first four cervical nerves. (2) Communicating branches to the cranial nerves.—An irregular number of small twigs pass from the superior cervical ganglion to the hypoglossal nerve