797 STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA sion of the nucleus of termination of the vestibular nerve (area acustica), but Streeter, who has made a detailed study of the floor of the fourth ventricle by means of serial sections, doubts that it is a part of this nucleus. Superior to the inferior fovea, and crossing each half of the floor of the fourth ventricle, are the striae acusticae. These are bundles of axones arising in the nuclei of termination of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve, which are situated in the lateral periphery of the restiform body. The bundles course around the dorsal periphery of the upper portion of the restiform body, giving it the appearance which suggested its name, then across each half of the floor of the ventricle to the median sulcus, in which they suddenly turn ventrally into the substance of the medulla oblon- gata, and in doing so they cross the mid-line to enter the substance of the opposite side. The striae acusticae vary greatly in different individuals, both in the degree of their prominence and their direction. Frequently a bundle may be discerned which courses obliquely upwards and outwards from the median sulcus to disappear in the floor fur- ther away from the mid-line and again, a bundle may depart from the transverse course before reaching the median sulcus. The striae acusticae cross the area acustica. This is the flattened elevation which occupies the whole lateral portion of the interme- diate portion of the floor of the ventricle, lateral to the limiting sulcus, and extends into the inferior portion lateral to the inferior fovea. It represents the subjacent nucleus of termination of the vestibular division of the eighth cranial nerve. The dorsal and ventral nuclei of the cochlear division of the eighth nerve (tuberculum acusti- cum) are indicated by the ventro-lateral fullness in the contour of the restiform body. In many of the mammals they produce a well-marked protuberance. In the superior portion the medial eminence occupies the greater part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in the upper part of the intermediate portion it pre- sents a broader, well-marked, elongated elevation, the colliculus facialis. This repre- sents the mesially placed nucleus of origin of the abducens and the genu of the root of the facial nerve, which root courses around and above the nucleus of the abducens. The nucleus of the facial is too deeply situated to produce an eminence. Lateral to this eminence is a depression of the limiting sulcus, which overlies the region of the larger portion of the nucleus of termination of the trigeminus, and is the fovea trigemini or superior fovea. The strip of the floor above the superior fovea and lateral to the medial eminence often appears greyish blue or dark brown, owing to pigmented cells subjacent to it, and is known as the locus caeruleus. It also repre- sents a portion of the nucleus of the trigeminus. The most superior portion of the medial eminence becomes narrow and lies close to the mid-line. The function of the underlying grey substance producing it is uncertain, and for this reason Streeter has named the elevation nucleus incertus, noting that by position it is closely related to the upper portion of the nucleus of the trigeminus. Internal structure of the medulla oblongata and pons.—The finer detail of the internal structure lies within the scope of microscopic rather than of gross anatomy. However, the significance and relations of certain of the more impor- tant and larger of the internal structures of the medulla and pons as observed in sections may be considered. The entire brain-stem may be regarded as an upward continuation of the spinal cord, to which structures are added giving each part its peculiar character and conformation, and in which the structures characteristic of the spinal cord are modi tied in varying degrees. The pyramids, the great descending or motor cerebro-spinal fasciculi, are directly continuous into the pyramidal fasciculi of the spinal cord. They form the extreme ventro-medial portion of the medulla, and from the fact that they contribute numer- ous fibres to the efferent nuclei (nuclei of origin) of the cranial nerves and to other portions of the grey substance of the brain-stem, they decrease appreciably in bulk in descending towards the spinal cord. Most of the fibres contributed to the medulla decussate as they leave the pyramids, and terminate in the grey substance of the opposite side. However, the chief decussation of the pyramids occurs in the lower end of the medulla. Here usually about three-fourths of the fibres then comprising the pyramids cross the mid-line to form the lateral cerebro-spinal fasciculus (crossed pyramidal tract) of the spinal cord immediately below. The remaining fourth, comprising the more lateral fibres or those furthest away from the mid-line, con- tinues uncrossed into the spinal cord as the ventral cerebro-spinal fasciculus or direct