THE OPTIC TRACTS 829 fibres from the nasal halves of each retina, and, in addition, by the fibres of Gudden's commissure which is contained in it. Beyond the chiasma the optic fibres continue as the optic tracts which course posteriorly around the cerebral peduncles to attain their entrance into the thalamen- cephalon and mesencephalon. Upon reaching the pulvinar of the thalamus each optic tract divides into two roots, a lateral and mesial. The lateral root contains practically all' of the true visual fibres—fibres arising from the lateral half of the re- tina of the same side and the nasal half of the retina of the opposite side. These fibres are distributed to three localities:—(1) perhaps the greater portion terminate in the lateral geniculate body; (2) a portion pass over and around the lateral geniculate body and enter the pulvinar; (3) a considerable portion enter the superior quadrigemi- nal brachium and course in it to terminate in the nucleus of the superior quadrigemi- nate body. The most evident function of this latter portion is to bear impulses Fig. 618.—Diagram of the Principal Components of the Optic Apparatus. (After Cunningham.) which, by way of the neurones of the quadrigeminate body, are distributed to the nuclei of the oculomotor, trochlear, and abducent nerves, and thus mediate eye- moving reflexes. The cells of the lateral geniculate body and the pulvinar, about which the retinal fibres terminate, give off axones which terminate in the cortex of the visual area, chiefly the cuneus, of the occipital lobe. In reaching this area they curve upwards and backwards, coursing in a compact band of white substance known as the optic radiation (radiatio occipito-thalamica, fig. 643). Some of the fibres of the optic radiation probably arise also in the superior quadrigeminate body. It also is in large part composed of fibres arising from the cells of the occipital cortex, which pass from the cortex to the pulvinar, superior quadrigeminate bodies, and possibly some to the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. The mesial root of the optic tract contains few, if any, true visual fibres. It runs into the medial geniculate body, and neither it nor this body are appreciably affected after extirpation of both eyes. It may be considered as wholly representing