906 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM line of the body, it turns sharply outwards and sends rami medianwards and lateral- wards to supply the skin of the ventral aspect of the body. In the region of the limbs the typical arrangement is interfered with in that what corresponds to the lateral and anterior branches of the division are carried out into the limbs for the skin and muscles there, instead of supplying the lateral and ventral parts of the body-wall. Nerve-fibres arising in the spinal ganglion and fibres from the ventral or motor root pass directly from the nerve-trunk into the anterior primary division of the spinal nerve. This division also receives sympathetic nerve-fibres by way of the ramus communicans. These latter accompany the division and are distributed to their allotted elements in the territory it supplies. The rami communicantes are small, short, thread-like branches by which the nerve-trunks are connected with the nearest ganglion of the vertically running gangliated cord of the sympathetic (sympathetic trunk). The trunk or an- terior primary division of every spinal nerve has at least one of these; most Fig. 673.—Diagram Illustrating the Origin of the Component Nerve-fibres of the Primary Divisions of a Typical Spinal Nerve. AS, Afferent sympathetic fibre; D, Dogiel spinal ganglion-cell of type II. of the nerves have two, and sometimes there are three. The nerves of the cervical region usually have but one, and this is composed largely of sympathetic fibres (grey ramus). Where there are two, one usually contains medullated fibres sufficient to give it a whiter appearance (white ramus). In the upper cervical and in the sacral regions one sympathetic ganglion may be connected with two or more spinal nerves, and sometimes one nerve is connected with two ganglia. The rami communicantes of the spinal nerves are equivalent to the communicating rami connecting certain of the cranial nerves with the sympathetic system (tri- geminus, glosso-pharyngeus, vagus). The medullated fibres of the rami and, there- fore, the white rami consist chiefly of fibres from the spinal nerves, viz., fibres from the spinal ganglion-cells which enter and course to their distribution through the sympathetic nerves, splanchnic afferent fibres, and fibres from the ventral roots of the spinal nerves which terminate in the sympathetic ganglia, splanchnic efferent