919 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS of it. In the axillary fossa the cords are arranged around the axillary artery, the outer cord lying to the outer side, the inner cord to the inner side, and the posterior cord behind the artery. In this region the posterior relations of the plexus are the fat in the upper part of the fossa and the subscapularis muscle, and it is covered in front by the pectoral muscles and the coraco-clavicular fascia. The lower border of the plexus is in relation in the posterior triangle and the root of the neck with the pleura and the first rib, and it is overlapped in front by the third part of the subclavian artery. In the axillary fossa the lower cord which forms the lower border of the plexus is overlapped anteriorly by the axillary vein. The upper and outer border of the plexus has no very important relations. The branches of the plexus are given off either from the roots above the clavicle, or from the cords behind and below the clavicle. The branches from the cords are lateral branches and terminal branches. The branches from the supra-clavicular portion.—After the roots of the plexus have received communications from the sympathetic, which have already been referred to, they give off a series of muscular branches, viz.—the posterior thoracic nerves (the dorsai scapular and the long thoracic nerves), the suprascapular nerve, a communicating twig to the phrenic, the nerve to the subclavius, and small twigs to the scalene muscles and the longus colli muscle. The posterior thoracic nerves are two in number:—(a) the dorsal scapular (nerve to the rhomboids) arises principally from the fifth cervical nerve, but it fre- quently receives a twig from the fourth nerve (fig. 675). It passes downwards and dorsalwards, across the middle scalene, parallel with and below the spinal accessory nerve to the anterior border of the levator scapulae, under which it disappears. It continues its descent under cover of the levator scapulas and the rhomboids almost to the lower angle of the scapula, lying a little internal to the posterior border of the bone, and it supplies the lower fibres of the levator and the smaller and larger rhom- boid muscles. (b) The Long Thoracic Nerve (external respiratory of Bell) usually arises, by three roots, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The last is sometimes absent (figs. 675 and 678). The upper two roots traverse the substance of the scalenus medius; the root from the seventh passes in front of that muscle. Twigs are furnished to the superior portion of the serratus anterior by the upper two roots; lower down they unite and are subsequently joined by the root from the seventh when present. The trunk of the nerve passes downwards behind the brachial plexus and the first stage of the axillary artery, and runs along the axillary surface of the serratus anterior (magnus), supplying twigs to each of the digitations of that muscle (fig. 679). The Suprascapular Nerve (fig. 675) receives fibres from the fifth and sixth cervi- cal nerves, and occasionally also a twig from the fourth nerve. It is a nerve of con- siderable size, and it passes downwards and dorsalwards parallel with the dorsal scapu- lar nerve, at first along the upper border of the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, then internal to the latter muscle and under cover of the anterior border of the trapezius to the suprascapular notch (fig. 679), where it comes into relation with the transverse scapular (suprascapular) artery. It is separated from the artery at the notch by the superior transverse ligament, the nerve passing through the notch and the artery above the ligament. After entering the supraspinous fossa the nerve supplies branches to the supraspinatus and a branch to the shoulder-joint; then it descends through the great scapular notch between the bone and the inferior trans- verse ligament to the infraspinous fossa, where it terminates in the infraspinatus muscle. The communicating twig to the phrenic (fig. 675) arises from the fifth nerve close to the point where the latter nerve receives its communicating twig from the cervical plexus. The nerve to the subclavius (fig. 679) is a small twig which arises from the fifth nerve or from the upper trunk of the plexus, but occasionally it receives additional fibres from the fourth and sixth nerves. It runs downwards in front of the lower part of the plexus and the third stage of the subclavian artery and, after giving off some- times a communicating branch to the phrenic, pierces the posterior layer of the coraco- clavicular fascia, and enters the subclavius at its lower border. Variety.—In rare cases the entire phrenic nerve may pass via the nerve to the subclavius in front of the third stage of the subclavian artery.