995 DISTRIBUTION OF THE CUTANEOUS NERVES The front of the hand is supplied by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves and by the first thoracic nerve through the superficial radial (radial) nerve, and through the median and ulnar nerves. The superficial radial supplies the radial side of the thumb by its palmar cutaneous branch. The remainder of the palm and the palmar aspects of the fingers are supplied by the median and ulnar nerves through their palmar cutaneous and digital branches, the median supplying three and a half digits and the ulnar the remaining one and a half (fig. 710). The dorsal aspect of the hand is supplied by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, which reach it through the superficial radial (radial) and through the median Fig. 712.—Diagram of the Cutaneous Areas op the Upper Extremity. (After Thorburn.) and ulnar nerves. The superficial radial supplies the outer part of the dorsum and the outer three and a half digits, except the lower portions of the second, third, and half of the fourth digits, which receive twigs from the median nerve; the ulnar nerve supplies the ulnar half of the dorsum of the hand, including the inner one and a half digits. The areas supplied by definite spinal nerves, according to the observations of Head and Thorburn, are shown in figures 711 and 712 respectively. There are six cutaneous areas in the region of the buttock, three upper and three lower. Of the upper areas the outer is supplied by the anterior primary divisions of the last thoracic and first lumbar nerves through the iliac branches of the last thoracic and the ilio-hypogastric nerves; the middle upper area receives the lateral divisions of the posterior primary branches of the upper three lumbar nerves, and the inner upper area is supplied by twigs from the lateral branches of the posterior primary divisions of the upper two or three sacral nerves (fig. 710). Of the lower three areas, the outer receives filaments from the second and third lumbar nerves through the lateral femoral cutaneous (external cutaneous) branch of the lumbar plexus; the middle area is supplied by the first, second, and third sacral nerves through the posterior femoral cutaneous (small sciatic) nerve; and the inner area by the second and third sacral nerves through the medial inferior clunial (per- forating cutaneous) branch of the sacral plexus (fig. 710). On the back of the thigh there are three areas. The inner and the outer are supplied by the second and third lumbar nerves, the former through the lateral femoral cutaneous (external cutaneous) branch of the lumbar plexus, and the latter through the anterior cutaneous branches of the femoral (internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural) nerve. The middle area receives twigs from the first, second, and third sacral nerves through the posterior femoral cutaneous (small sciatic), a branch of the sacral plexus. The front of the thigh is supplied by the first, second, and third lumbar nerves, and there are five cutaneous areas. The outer area receives twigs of the second and third lumbar nerves through the lateral (external) cutaneous nerve. There are The Cutaneous Areas of the Lower Extremity