THE PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM 899 The nerves of the pia mater are probably all for the supply of the numerous blood-vessels in it. They accompany the vessels and form terminal, perivascular plexuses about them. They are chiefly sympathetic, vaso-motor to the smooth muscle in the walls of the vessels. A few fibres of cerebro-spinal origin occur, all of which are; no doubt, of the sensory variety. The nerve supply of the spinal pia mater is derived from the recurrent branches of the spinal nerves. THE PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM The intimate connection and consequent control exercised by the central nervous system over all the tissues and organs of the body is attained through the peripheral nervous system. This system, abundantly attached to the central system, consists of numerous bundles of nerve-fibres which divide and ramify throughout the body, anastomosing with each other and forming various plexuses, large and small. The terminal rami divide and subdivide until the division attains the individual nerve- fibres of which they are composed, and finally the nerve-fibres terminate in relations with their allotted peripheral elements. It is by means of this system that stimuli arising in the peripheral tissues are conveyed to the central system, and that im- pulses in response are borne from the central system to the peripheral organs. For purposes of description, as well as upon the basis of certain differences in structure, arrangement, and distribution, the peripheral nervous system is separated into two main divisions:—(1) the cerebro-spinal and (2) the sympathetic system. Both of these divisions include numerous ganglia or peripheral groups of nerve- cells from which arise a considerable proportion of the fibres forming their nerve- trunks, but neither of the divisions may be considered wholly apart from the central system nor are they separate from each other. The sensory or afferent fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves pass by way of the afferent nerve-roots into the central system and contribute appreciably to its bulk, and the motor or efferent fibres of these nerves have their cells of origin (nuclei) situated within the confines of the central system. The sympathetic system is intimately associated with the cerebro-spinal, and conse- quently with the central system—(1) by means of fibres which enter the cerebro- spinal ganglia and convey impulses which enter the central system; (2) by efferent fibres of central origin which course in the nerve-trunks and terminate in the ganglia of the sympathetic system; (3) also, the sympathetic trunks usually contain numer- ous afferent cerebro-spinal fibres which thus course to their peripheral termination, usually in the so-called 'splanchnic area,' or domain of the sympathetic, in company with the sympathetic fibres. Likewise the peripheral branches of the cerebro-spinal nerves often carry for varying distances numerous sympathetic fibres which are on their way to terminate either in other sympathetic ganglia or upon their allotted tissue-elements. The following differences between the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems of nerves may be cited:—(1) The cerebro-spinal nerves are anatomically continuous with the brain and spinal cord; probably no fibres arising in the sympathetic ganglia actually enter the central system. (2) The ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves all lie quite near the central axis, in line on either side of it, and at more or less regular intervals; the sympathetic ganglia are scattered throughout the body tissues, are far more numerous and more variable in size, and probably only the larger of them are symmetrical for the two sides of the body. (3) The cerebro-spinal nerves are paired throughout, and the nerves of each pair are symmetrical as to their origin and also, with certain exceptions (notably the vagus), in their course and distribution; most of the larger and more proximal of the sympathet ic nerve-trunks are symmetrical for the two sides of the body ; many of them are not, and many of the smaller and most of the more peripheral nerves are not pairedat all. (4) Even in their finer twigs, the cerebro-spinal nerves of the two sides probably do not anastomose with each other across the mid-line of the body; the sympathetic nerves do so abundantly, especially within the body cavity. (5) The cerebro-spinal nerves are distributed to the ordinary sensory surfaces of the body and the organs of special sense and to the somatic, striated or'voluntary' muscles of the body; the sympathetic fibres are de- voted chiefly to the supply of the so-called involuntary muscles of the body, including the smooth muscle in the walls of the viscera and in the walls of the blood and lymph