School of Medicinf the vagus tvMNIVERSi I Y OF LEEtM by communications from the sympathetic and from the pharyngeal plexus, and it gives a small branch to the internal carotid artery. (a) The internal branch accompanies the superior laryngeal artery to the inter- val between the upper border of the thyreoid cartilage and the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It passes under cover of the thyreo-hyoid muscle and pierces the hyo- thyreoid membrane to gain the interior of the pharynx, where it lies in the outer wall of the sinus piriformis and divides into a number of diverging branches. The ascending branches supply the mucous membrane on both surfaces of the epiglottis, and probably that of a small part of the root of the tongue. The descending branches ramify in the mucous membrane lining the larynx, and supply the mucous membrane which covers the back of the cricoid cartilage. One of the descending branches passes downwards on the internal muscles of the larynx to anastomose with the ter- minal part of the inferior (recurrent) laryngeal nerve. (b) The external branch runs downwards on the inferior constrictor to the lower border of the thyreoid cartilage, where it ends, for the most part, in the crico-thyreoid- eus. A few filaments pierce the crico-thyreoid membrane and are distributed to the membrane lining the larynx. It occasionally gives off a cardiac branch which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic; it also furnishes twigs to the inferior constrictor, and communicating twigs to the pharyngeal plexus, and it receives a com- munication from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. (5) The recurrent (inferior or recurrent laryngeal) nerve of the right side arises at the root of the neck in front of the first stage of the right subclavian artery. It hooks around the artery, passing below and then behind that vessel, and runs upwards and slightly inwards, crossing obliquely behind the common carotid artery (fig. 706). Having gained the side of the trachea, it runs upwards in the groove between that canal and the oesophagus, accompanied by branches of the inferior thyreoid artery, and, near the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, be- comes the inferior laryngeal nerve. In its course the recurrent nerve gives off branches to the trachea, oesophageal branches to the oesophagus and pharynx, and, near its commencement, one or more inferior cardiac branches. It communicates with the inferior cervical sympathetic ganglion and with the superior laryngeal nerve. The inferior laryngeal nerve, the continuation of the recurrent, ascends between the trachea and oesophagus, enters the larynx under cover of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch passes upwards and forwards on the crico-arytsenoideus lateralis and thyreo- arytaenoideus, and supplies these muscles and also the vocalis, arytsenoideus obliquus, ary-epiglotticus, and thyreo-epiglotticus. The 'posterior branch, passing upwards, supplies the crico-arytsenoideus posterior and arytsenoideus obliquus, and anastomoses with the internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in front of the aortic arch and winds around the concavity of the arch lateral to the ligamentum arteriosum. It crosses ob- liquely behind the root of the left common carotid artery, gains the angular interval between the oesophagus and trachea, and corresponds with the nerve of the right side in the remainder of its course and distribution (fig. 706). (6) Cardiac branches.—Of these, there are two sets, the superior and inferior. All the branches of both sets pass to the deep part of the cardiac plexus except a superior branch on the left side that passes to the superficial part of the cardiac plexus. (a) The superior (superior and inferior cervical) cardiac nerves arise from the vagus and its branches in the neck (figs. 706 and 718). Some of these branches on both sides join with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic in the neck and pass with them to the cardiac plexus. Some on the right side pass independently through the thorax to the deep part of the cardiac plexus, and a branch on the left side passes through the thorax to the superficial part of the cardiac plexus. (b) The inferior (thoracic) cardiac branches.—These branches on the right side arise in part from the recurrent nerve and in part from the main trunk of the vagus, while on the left side they usually arise entirely from the recurrent. All these branches pass to the deep part of the cardiac plexus (figs. 706 and 718). (7) The bronchial (pulmonary) branches are anterior and posterior (fig. 706). (a) The anterior bronchial (pulmonary) branches consist of a few small branches which arise at the upper border of the root of the lung. They pass for- wards to gain the anterior aspect of the bronchus, where they communicate with the