THE ARACHNOID 893 noid villus consists of- a retiform network of subarachnoid substance and its meshes are filled with cerebro-spinal fluid. The Pacchionian bodies on the vertex of the brain project through the inner layer of the dura mater, either into the superior sagittal sinus or into the venous spaces or parasinoidal sinuses which lie at the sides of that sinus, and, as they become larger, they press against the outer layer of the dura mater and produce ovoid depressions on the inner surface of the cranium. They probably facilitate the passage of lymph from the subarachnoid cavity into the blood sinuses, and thus may aid in relieving pressure within. On the other hand, through them the cerebro-spinal fluid is replenished at need from the blood plasma. They are not present at birth, but they appear at the tenth year and increase in number and size with advancing age. They are less marked in the female than in the male. The spinal arachnoid is in the form of a loose, reticular sac which is most capa- cious about the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord and about the cauda equina. Like that of the encephalon, the portion next to the dura mater alone resembles a membrane, being a loosely organized feltwork, covered on the side of the subdural cavity by a layer of endothelium common to that cavity. Throughout its length the spinal subarachnoid cavity is relatively wide, and, as in the cranium, contains a fine, spongy, web-like reticulum, numerous threads of which are continuous with the pia mater. This spongy tissue is the inner modification of the arachnoid, and Fig. 664.—Coronal Section through the Great Longitudinal Fissure, showing the Meninges. (Key and Retzius.) SUBARACHNOID SPACE Superior sagittal sinus PACCHIONIAN BODY CORPUS CALLOSUM its meshes are occupied by the cerebro-spinal fluid. It is not so abundant as in the cranial subarachnoid cavity. In addition to the delicate threads of this tissue the arachnoid is more firmly attached to the pia mater by three incomplete partitions. The most continuous of these is arranged along the dorsal mid-line and is known as the septum posticum of Schwalbe (subarachnoid septum). This may be described as a linear accumulation of the spongy tissue which pervades the subarachnoid space. It is most incomplete in the upper cervical region, where it becomes merely a line of threads connecting with the pia. It is most complete as a septum in the lower cervical and in the thoracic region, but at best it maintains a spongy char- acter. The other two partitions are formed by the denticulate ligaments, which extend laterally from either side of the spinal cord, connecting the pia and dura mater and involving the arachnoid in passing through it. Within the subarachnoid cavity these form more or less complete septa, though outside the arachnoid they are attached to the dura only at the intervals of their dentations. They belong to the pia mater and will be described with it. The arachnoid is further continuous with the pia by way of the connective-tissue sheaths of the roots of the spinal nerves and the blood-vessels passing through the subarachnoid cavity. Vessels and Nerves.—The arachnoid has no special blood supply and probably no special nerves other than those supplying the walls of the blood-vessels passing through it.