1011 THE PREVERTEBRAL PLEXUSES Construction of the lumbar and sacral portions of the sympathetic trunk.— The ganglia of both these portions of the trunk are very variable in shape, size, position, andnumber. There are usually four ganglia belonging to each portion, but sometimes as many as eight may be distinguished in the lumbar or there may be as many as six in the sacral portion. In the majority of cases, especially in the sacral region, these masses of cells are so fused that their number is less than the number of the spinal nerves with which they are associated. As noted above, only the first two or three lumbar spinal nerves send white rami which connect as such directly with these ganglia. However, splanchnic efferent fibres descend this entire stretch of the trunk, through both the lumbar and sacral portions, from the white rami of the lower thoracic and the upper lumbar nerves above. These fibres either terminate in the various ganglia or pass uninterrupted into the peripheral branches, and are con- cerned in the transmission of impulses which are vaso-motor to the genital organs, motor for the uterus, the vas deferens, and the circular coat of the bladder. Also, some of them convey secretory, pilo-motor, and vaso-motor impulses for the glands, skin, and vessels of the lower extremity in addition to the similar impulses conveyed in the peripheral branches from the lower part of the thoracic portion of the sympathetic trunk. The motor fibres for the uterus or vas deferens and for the bladder pass, in most part probably, by way of the peripheral branches from the lumbar portion of the cord, through the aortic plexus to the inferior mesenteric ganglion; others, the vaso-motor fibres to the genital organs especially, pass by way of the sacral gan- glia and the peripheral branches from them to the hypogastric or pelvic plexus and the appropriate sub-plexuses of this region. Of the vaso-motor fibres for the penis, some of the constrictor fibres pass down the sacral portion of the sympathetic trunk and terminate about the cells of the sacral ganglia, and these cells send out sympathetic fibres which join and course in the pudic nerve (n. pudendus). All of both the lumbar and sacral spinal nerves receive grey rami from the sympa- thetic trunk. These, just as those from the other portions of the trunk, consist of— (1) vaso-motor fibres to the meninges and vessels of the vertebral canal; (2) sympa- thetic fibres which join the divisions of the spinal nerves and course in them to their distribution, and (3) afferent sympathetic fibres terminating in the spinal ganglia. In addition to the efferent splanchnic fibres, the branches of the lumbo-sacral por- tion of the sympathetic trunk carry cerebro-spinal fibres of general sensibility- sensory fibres arising in the spinal ganglia of this and the lower thoracic region. There are no white rami proper passing from the sacral spinal nerves to course or terminate in the sympathetic trunk. Efferent splanchnic fibres are given off by these nerves in abundance, but, instead of entering the trunk and its ganglia, they form bundles which pass over the trunk and directly into its peripheral branches. The bundles passing from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves are large and especially definite. While homologous to white rami, such bundles are better known as the visceral branches of the sacral nerves or the pelvic splanchnics. They contain some cerebro-spinal sensory fibres (afferent splanchnic), but consist for the most part of efferent splanchnic fibres, conveying impulses, vaso-motor (vaso-dilator, chiefly) to the genital organs, both motor and inhibitory for the rec- tum, uterus, and bladder (longitudinal coat especially), and secretory for the pros- tate gland. These fibres contribute to the hypogastric plexus and are interrupted in the small ganglia of its sub-plexuses, named according to the various urino-genital organs concerned. THE GREAT PREVERTEBRAL PLEXUSES The great prevertebral plexuses are three in number,—the cardiac, the cceliac (solar or epigastric), and the hypogastric or pelvic. The cardiac plexus lies behind and below the arch of the aorta, and the cceliac and hypogastric plexuses are situated in front of the lumbar vertebra?. Each plexus receives not only sympathetic fibres which have passed from or through the ganglia of the sympathetic trunks of either side, but also both afferent and efferent cerebro-spinal nerve-fibres derived directly from the cerebro-spinal nerves. In addition the cardiac and cceliac plexuses receive both efferent splanchnic and cerebro-spinal sensory or afferent splanchnic fibres from both vagus nerves. It should be clearly understood that the branches which run from the sympathetic trunks to the prevertebral plexuses contain medullated