THE INTERNAL EAR 1061 (organ of Corti), in which the fibres of the cochlear nerve terminate. The periph- eral wall is formed by the thickened periosteum upon the peripheral wall of the coch- lear canal, while the third wall is formed by a thin vestibular membrane (mem- brane of Reissner) which passes from the peripheral wall to the osseous lamina spiralis near its free margin, forming with the lamina spiralis an angle of 45 degrees. The cochlear duct and the osseous spiral lamina divide the cochlear spiral canal into two parts, one next to the basilar membrane, the scala tympani, and one next to the vestibular membrane, the scala vestibuli. The scala tympani unites with the scala vestibuli at the helicotrema, and from the scala tympani a minute canal, the perilymphatic duct, passes through the cochlear canaliculus and connects with the subarachnoid space. A thin fibrous layer, the secondary tympanic membrane, closes the cochlear fenestra (fenestra rotunda) and thus separates the scala tympani from the tympanic cavity, and the vestibular perilymphatic space (scala vestibuli) is separated from the tympanic cavity by the base of the stapes in the vestibular fenestra (fenestra ovalis). Vessels and nerves.—The internal auditory artery (p. 546, fig. 477), a branch of the basilar, accompanies the acoustic nerve. It supplies the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea, and their membranous contents. The blood is returned by the internal auditory vein into the in- ferior petrosal sinus, and by small veins which pass through the cochlear and vestibular aqueducts to the inferior and superior petrosal sinuses. The acoustic nerve (p. 979, figs. 583 and 758) consists of a vestibular and a cochlear division. The membranous ampulla? of the semicircular ducts and the acoustic maculae of the utricle and saccule are supplied by the vestibular nerve. The spiral organ (organ of Corti) in the cochlear duct is supplied by the cochlear nerve. The development of the internal ear.—The internal ear is the essential organ of hearing, and appears at an early stage in the embryo as a depression of the ectoderm at the side of the head, above the dorsal end of the second branchial arch. The depression is lined by a thickened epithelium, and, sinking more deeply into the subjacent mesodermic tissue, is eventually con- stricted from the ectoderm to form a rounded sac, the otocyst, imbedded in the mesodermic tissue which will become the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From this simple ectodermic sac the entire membranous internal ear is formed, the so-called osseous internal ear being merely the bony walls of the cavity in which the otocyst lies.