889 THE CRANIAL DURA MATER and its inner border forms the boundary of the foramen of the diavhragma sellcc and surrounds the infundibulum. Its upper surface is in relation with the base of the brain, and its lower surface is in relation with the hypophysis, which it binds down in the hypophyseal fossa. The spaces which lie between the layers of the cranial dura mater are Meckel's caves, the spaces which lodge the endolymphatic sacs, and the blood sinuses and lacunae. Meckel's caves are two cleft-like spaces or niches which lie, one on each side, in the trigeminal impression on the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Each space lodges the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion and the motor and sensory roots of the trigeminus of the corresponding side, and it communicates with the sub- dural space in the posterior fossa of the cranium by an oval opening, which lies above the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and below the supe- rior petrosal sinus. Fig. 661.—Showing the Upper Surface of the Tentorium Cerebelli and the Tentorial Notch through which the Mid-brain and Posterior Cerebral Arteries enter the Middle Fossa of the Cranium. INFUNDIB ULUM Internal carotid artery OPTIC TRACT THIRD NERVE Cerebral peduncle Aqueduct of Sylvius MESENCEPH- ALON Falx cerebri Tentorium eerebelli Straight sinus CRISTA GALLI OPTIC NER VE — Sphenoparietal sinus Middle cerebral artery Anterior cerebral artery Posterior communi- cating artery Cavernous sinus Superior cerebellar artery Posterior cerebral artery Su2>erior petrosal sinus Free border of ten- torium bounding tentorial notch ansverse sinus Superior sagittal sinus The space which contains the endolymphatic sac on each side lies behind the petrous portion of the temporal bone and communicates with the aquaeductus vestibuli. The venous sinuses and lacunae.—The cranial blood sinuses have already been fully described in the account of the vascular system, and it is sufficient to note here that they are continuous, on the one hand, with the meningeal veins, and, on the other, with the veins outside the cranial walls. The vessels which establish communication between the blood sinuses and the extracranial veins are referred to collectively as emissary veins. They possibly help to maintain the regularity of the cranial cir- culation, and they have therefore a certain amount of practical importance. The sinuses which are connected with the extracranial veins by emissary veins are the superior sagittal, the transverse (lateral), and the cavernous. Three or four emissary veins pass from the superior sagittal sinus:—one passes through the foramen caecum and communicates with the veins of the roof of the nose, or, through the nasal