952 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM accessorius), and deep to the flexor digitorum brevis. At its termination it lies in the interval between the flexor digitorum brevis and abductor digiti quinti. Branches.—From the trunk of the lateral plantar nerve muscular and articular branches are given off. The muscular branches arise from the commencement of the nerve and are dis- tributed to the abductor digiti quinti and quadratus plantae. The articular branches supply the calcaneo-cuboid joint. The superficial branch supplies muscular filaments to the flexor digiti quinti brevis, the third plantar and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles, and divides into two common plantar digital nerves, each of which subdivides to form proper plantar digital nerves. The outer of the two branches supplies the outer side of the fifth digit; the inner communicates with the outer digital branch of the medial plantar nerve (fig. 696) and divides into proper plantar digital nerves for the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth digits. The digital branches of the superficial division of the lateral plantar, like those of the medial plantar, supply the skin of the toes and the beds of the nails, and are associated with numerous Pacinian corpuscles. The deep branch passes forwards and inwards into the deep part of the sole with the plantar arterial arch. It runs deep to the quadratus plantae, the long flexor tendons and the lumbricals, and the oblique adductor of the great toe. It lies, there- fore, immediately beneath the bases of the metatarsal bones and it supplies the fol- lowing muscular and articular branches:— Muscular branches to the outer three lumbricals, the interossei of the inner three inter-metatarsal spaces, and the transverse and oblique adductor muscles of the great toe. Articular branches to the intertarsal and to the tarso-metatarsal joints and not uncommonly to the metatarso-phalangeal joints also. Filaments from the deep branch frequently pass through the interosseous spaces and communicate with the interosseous branches of the deep peroneal (anterior tibial) nerve. The Common Peroneal (External Popliteal) Nerve.—At the apex of the pop- liteal space, where the two component parts of the sciatic trunk usually become distinct, the external portion receives the name n. peronaus communis. It descends along the posterior border of the biceps femoris, which forms the upper part of the outer boundary of the space (fig. 695). It leaves the space at the external lateral angle, crosses the plantaris, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, the pop- liteus, and the inferior external artery, and descends behind the upper part of the soleus, to the neck of the fibula, where it turns forwards between the peroneus longus and the bone, and breaks up into its three terminal branches, the recurrent articular, the superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous), and the deep peroneal (anterior tibial) nerves (fig. 697). Upper branches.—While it is in the popliteal space the peroneal (external popliteal) nerve gives off two articular branches and a cutaneous branch. The upper articular branch accompanies the superior external articular artery. The lower articular branch passes down with the trunk of the nerve, across the plantaris and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and it joins the lower external articular artery behind the tendon of the biceps femoris. Both the upper and lower articular branches pierce the ligaments and are distributed in the interior of the joint. The cutaneous branch (communicans fibularis), lateral sural cutaneous, is extremely variable both as to the number of its branches and as to the place of its anastomosis with the medial sural cutaneous. Leaving the common peroneal (ex- ternal popliteal) in the popliteal space, it descends between the deep fascia and the external head of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the calf, where it pierces the fascia and unites with the medial sural cutaneous to form the sural (external saphenous) nerve. In its course it may give off no branches; or it may give off several, some of which supply the skin of the back of the leg, while one of them, the peroneal anastomotic branch, unites with the medial sural cutaneous to form the sural (short saphenous) nerve. The junction of the peroneal anastomotic branch with the medial sural cutaneous may take place at any point between the popliteal space and the lower third of the leg. The sural (external or short saphenous) nerve is formed by the union of the lateral sural cutaneous nerve either directly, or through a communicating branch, the peroneal anastomotic, with the medial sural cutaneous (fig. 695). It descends along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, giving branches to the lower and outer