1033 CAVITY OF THE ORBIT posterior of these chambers by transudation from the vessels of the ciliary body and posterior surface of the iris (see also page 1030). The stream passes mainly forwards through the pupil into the anterior aqueous chamber, whence it escapes slowly by passing through the spaces of Fontana into Schlemm's canal, and thence into the anterior ciliary veins. Part of the lymph-stream passes from the posterior aqueous chamber backwards into the zonular space (canal of Petit), out of which fluid can pass into the lens substance, or diffuse itself into the front of the vitreous. In the cornea the lymph travels in the spaces already mentioned as existing between the fibre-bundles, and in the nerve-channels and at the periphery of the cornea it flows off into the lymphatic vessels of the conjunctiva. In the iris there is a system of lymphatic spaces opening anteriorly on its free surface by the crypts previously described, and communicating peripherally with the spaces of Fontana. 2. Posteriorly, we have (a) the central or hyaloid canal, between the poste- rior pole of the lens and the optic nerve entrance, and (b) the perivascular canals of the retina; the lymph from both of these situations flows into the spaces of the optic nerve, which communicate with the intervaginal space of the nerve, and thus with the great intracranial spaces. Further, between chorioid and sclerotic we have (c) the perichorioidal space, which gets the lymph from the chorioid, and com- municates with Tenon's space outside the sclerotic by the perforations corresponding to the vasa vorticosa and posterior ciliary arteries, and with the intervaginal space around the optic nerve entrance. Tenon's space, again, is continuous with the supravaginal space around the optic nerve, which communicates both with the intervaginal spaces, with the lymph-spaces of the orbit, and directly with the intra- cranial spaces at the apex of the orbit. The development of the eye.—Three different embryonic tissues take part in the for- mation of the eye, namely, an outgrowth from the central nervous system, an invagination of the surface ectoderm, and the mesoderm tissue in the vicinity of these two structures. From the outgrowth from the brain the retina in all its parts and the optic nerve develope, from the surface invagination the lens, and the remaining structures are formed from the mesoderm. The vitreous may also possibly have a partial origin from the primitive retinal tissues. The central outgrowth takes the form of a hollow bulb attached to the brain by a long slen- der stalk. When by its growth it comes into contact with the lens invagination, the outer half of the bulb sinks back into its cavity until it comes into contact with the wall of the posterior half, and the bulb is thus converted into a cup. But the cup is an incomplete one, for its entire ventral wall and a portion also of that of the stalk become pushed up into the cavities of these structures, so that along their ventral surfaces there is a deep fissure known as the chorioidal fis- sure. In normal development the fissure is eventually obliterated by the union of its lips, but occasionally it persists more or less completely, producing the condition known as coloboma. In the fissure an artery and vein develope and so reach the cavity of the optic cup. When the fissure closes they become enclosed and form the arteria and vena centralis retina?. In the embryonic condition branches from these vessels extend through the vitreous and form a vascular tissue almost completely investing the lens, which occupies the mouth of the cup. These hyaloid vessels normally disappear later, leaving only the hyaloid canal as a reminder of their existence, but occasionally traces of them may persist over the anterior surface of the lens, forming what is termed a persistent pupillary membrane, or in the vitreous as a persistent hyaloid artery. CAVITY OF THE ORBIT General Arrangement of its Contents The anterior wider half of the cavity is mainly occupied by the eyeball, which lies almost axially, but is rather nearer to the upper and outer than it is to the other walls. The posterior two-thirds of the globe are in relation with soft parts, chiefly muscles and fat, and its posterior pole is situated midway between the base (or opening) and the apex of the orbital cavity. The anterior third of the eye- ball is naturally free, except for a thin covering of the conjunctiva, and projects slightly beyond the opening of the orbit, the degree of prominence varying with the amount of orbital fat, and also to some extent with the length of the globe. A straight line joining the inner and outer orbital margins usually cuts the eye behind the cornea—externally behind the ora serrata, nasally further forwards, at the junction of the ciliary body and iris. The globe is held in position by numerous bands of connective tissue. The lachrymal gland lies under the outer part of the roof of the orbit anteriorly. The orbital fat occupies the spaces between the orbital