ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1048 in ,this course, being narrowest a short distance from the punctum, and widest at the bend, from which point it again narrows very gradually as it nears the sac. The wall of the ductus consists mainly of elastic and white fibrous tissue, lined internally by epithelium, and covered externally by striated muscle (part of the orbicularis). The muscle-fibres run parallel to the ductus in the horizontal part of its course; but they are placed, some in front and some behind, around the vertical part, acting here as a kind of sphincter. Just before their termination, the ducts pierce the periosteal thickening that constitutes the posterior limb of the inner palpebral ligament. The lachrymal sac lies in a depression in the bone at the inner angle of the orbit (the lachrymal fossa). It is vertically elongated, and narrows at its upper and lower ends; the upper extremity or fundus is closed, while the lower is contin- uous directly with the nasal duct. Laterally, the sac is somewhat compressed, so that its antero-posterior is greater than its transverse diameter. The ducts, either separately or by a short common tube, open into a bulging on the outer sur- face of the sac near the fundus. As has previously been mentioned, the sac is surrounded by periosteum, but between this and the mucous membrane forming the true sac-wall there is a loose connective tissue, so that the cavity is capable of considerable distension. The relations of the inner palpebral ligament have already been described; it is to be noted that the fundus of the sac extends above this ligament. The naso-lachrymal duct reaches from the lower end of the sac to the top of the inferior meatus of the nose, opening into the latter just beneath the adherent border of the inferior nasal concha. Traced from above, its main direction is down- wards, but it has also a slight inclination backwards and outwards. It lies in a bony canal, whose periosteum forms its outer covering. Between this and the mucous membrane of the duct there is a little intermediate tissue, in which run veins of considerable size connected with the plexus of the inferior concha. The duct does not usually open directly into the nasal cavity at the lower end of the bony canal,but pierces the nasal mucous membrane very obliquely, so that a flap of mucous membrane covers the lower border of the opening in the bone, upon which flap the tears first trickle after escaping from the duct proper. The sac and naso-lachrymal duct together constitute the lachrymal canal, lined throughout by a continuous mucous membrane. This membrane presents folds in some situations, especially near the opening of the canaliculi, at the junc- tion of the sac and duct, and at the lower end of the duct. That at the top of the duct is the most important, as it sometimes interferes with the proper flow of tears out of the sac. The total length of the lachrymal canal is roughly twenty-four millimetres, half of this being sac, and half naso-lachrymal duct. If, however, we reckon as duct the oblique passage through the nasal mucous membrane, this measurement may occasionally be increased by eight or ten millimetres. The lachrymal sac, when distended, measures about six millimetres from before back- wards, by four millimetres transversely. The naso-lachrymal duct is practically circular, and has a diameter of about three millimetres, rather less at its junction with the sac, where we find the narrowest part of the whole lachrymal canal. ♦