THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 826 conarii). These are two thin bands of white substance which extend from the epiphysis anteriorly upon the thalamus, along the upper border of each lateral wall of the third ventricle, and thus form the boundaries between the dorsal and mesial surfaces of each thalamus. They have been called the habenulce, from their relation to the habenular nucleus, situated in the mesial grey substance below their lower ends. They are continuous across the mid-line in the habenular commissure, just below the neck of the epiphysis, and between it and the posterior cerebral commis- sure (figs. 582 and 613). The ventro-lateral surface of the thalamencephalon is continuous into the hypo- thalamic tegmental region, the upward continuation of the tegmental grey sub- stance of the mesencephalon. It is also adjacent to a portion of the internal cap- sule. Both these relationships, as well as the fibre connections of the diencephalon with the structures above and below it, are deferred until the discussion of the inter- nal structure of the prosencephalon. The mesial surface of the diencephalon allows a better view of the shape and relations of the third ventricle. Below the line of the massa intermedia the ven- Fig. 615.—Mesial Section of Entire Brain, showing Mesial Surface of Diencephalon and Telencephalon. (After Henle.) MASSA HYPOTHALAMIC SULCUS INTERMEDIA FORAMEN INTERVENTRICULARS (MONROI) PONS CORPUS TUBER MAMMILLARE CINEREUM tricle is usually somewhat wider than it is along the upper margins of the thalami. This greater width is occasioned by a groove in the ventromesial surface of each thalamus, known as the hypothalamic sulcus (sulcus of Monro). It is along the line of this sulcus that the third ventricle is continuous with the aqua-ductus cere- bri, and thus with the fourth ventricle below, and, likewise, with the two lateral ventricles of the cerebral hemispheres at its anterior end. The latter junction occurs through a small oblique aperture, the interventricular foramen (foramen of Monro), one into each lateral ventricle. The dorsal or upper portion of the third ventricle extends posteriorly beneath its tela chorioidea (velum mterpositum) to form a small posterior recess about the epiphysis. This is known as the supra- pineal recess. The anterior and ventral extremity of the third ventricle involves the pars optica hypothalami, which belongs to the telencephalon. THE TELENCEPHALON.—External features.—The optic portion of the hypothalamus consists of that small central area of the basal surface of the telen- cephalon which includes and surrounds the optic chiasma, and comprises the