905 THE SPINAL NERVES the fourth and fifth thoracic, and the coccygeal nerves) into a medial (internal) branch and a lateral (external) branch. The medial branch turns inwards towards the spinous processes of the vertebrae, and supplies the bones and joints and the mus- cles about them, and may or may not supply the skin overlying them. The lateral branch turns outwards and dorsalwards and also supplies the adjacent muscles and bones, and, if the medial branch has not supplied the overlying skin, it terminates in cutaneous twigs. In the upper half of the spinal nerves the medial branches supply the skin; in the lower half, it is the lateral branches which do so. Both branches of almost all the posterior divisions, especially those of the lower nerves, show a tendency to run caudal wards and thus are distributed to muscles and. skin below the levels of their respective intervertebral foramina. They never supply the muscles of the limbs, though their cutaneous distribution extends upon the buttock, the shoulder, and the skin of the back of the head as far upwards as the vertex. The posterior primary divisions, with the exception of those of the first three cer- vical nerves, are much smaller than the anterior primary divisions. As their mixed function suggests, the posterior primary divisions contain both nerve-fibres from the ventral roots and peripheral fibres (dendrites) arising from the spinal ganglion-cells. If the nerve-trunk on the immediate peripheral side of the spinal ganglion be teased, bundles of ventral root-fibres may be seen crossing the trunk obliquely to enter the posterior division, and fibres from the spinal Fig. 672.—Diagrams Illustrating the Origin and Distribution of a Typical Spinal Nerve. A, in thoracic region; B, in region of a limb (highly schematic). A . B Alimentary canal Limb ANTERIOR OR VENTRAL BRANCH ganglion may also be traced into it. Also a few sympathetic fibres, derived chiefly by way of the ramus communicans, are known to course in it for distribution in the walls of the blood-vessels, etc., of the area it supplies. The anterior primary divisions run outwards and ventralwards. With the exception of the first three cervical nerves, they are larger than the posterior primary divisions, and appear as direct continuations of the nerve-trunks. Only in case of most of the thoracic nerves do they remain independent in their course. In these they run outwards and ventralwards in the body-wall. In general, these divisions supply the lateral and ventral parts of the body, the limbs, and the perineum. In the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions they lose their anatomical identity by divid- ing, subdividing, and anastomosing with each other so as to give rise to the three great cerebro-spinal plexuses of the body—the cervical, the brachial, and the lumbo-sacral plexuses. The majority of the thoracic nerves retain the typical or primitive character in both their anterior and posterior primary divisions. In them the anterior division (intercostal nerve) divides into a lateral or dorsal and an an- terior or ventral branch, both of which subdivide. The lateral branch is chiefly cutaneous; it pierces the superficial muscles and, in the subcutaneous connective tissue, divides into a smaller posterior and a larger anterior ramus, which respectively supply the skin of the sides and the lateral part of the ventral surface of the body. The anterior branch continues ventralwards in the body-wall, giving off twigs along its course to the adjacent muscles and bones, and, as it approaches the ventral mid-