868 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM callosum may be considered among the association pathways, since they extend be- tween the grey substance of the hippocampus (dentate gyrus) and the subcallosal gyrus of the same hemisphere. (7) Likewise the longitudinal fibres in the stria terminalis of the thalamus (taenia semicircularis) may be considered among the association pathways, since these connect the amygdaloid nucleus with the anterior perforated substance. (8) The numerous fibres passing in both directions between the cerebral cortex and the nuclei of the corpus striatum belong to the association system. These do not form a definite bundle, but, instead, contribute appreciably to the corona radiata. However, a pathway described as the occipitofrontal fasciculus probably consists largely of the more sagittally running fibres of this nature. The existence of this fasciculus has been noted in degenerations and in cases of arrested development of the corpus callosum. Its fibres are described as contributing greatly to the tapetum, and as coursing immediately next to the ependyma of the lateral ventricle. As a mass, they appear in intimate connection with the caudate nucleus, and are spread towards both the frontal and the occipital lobes (chiefly the latter), in the mesial part of the corona radiata of those lobes. (9) Since the olfactory bulb is a part of the hemisphere proper, the olfactory tract may be considered an association pathway connecting the olfactory bulb with the parolfactory area, the subcallosal gyrus, the anterior perforated substance, and the uncus. As already shown, a portion of the fibres of the tract belongs to the commissural system. THE FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX The known areas of specific function of the human cerebral cortex 'are relatively small (fig. 644). They comprise but little more than a third of the area of the entire hemisphere. They are—(1) the area of general sensibility or the somassthetic area, and (2) the areas for the organs of special sense. They represent portions of the cortex in which terminate sensory or ascending projection fibres bearing impulses from the given peripheral structures, and in which arise motor or descending projection fibres bearing impulses in response. Knowledge of the location of the areas has been obtained—(1) by the Flechsig method of investigation, and to a considerable extent by Flechsig himself; (2) from clinico-pathological observations, largely studies of the phenomena resulting from brain tumors and traumatic lesions; (3) by experimental excitation of the cortex of monkeys and apes, the resulting phe- nomena being correlated with the anatomical findings and compared with the observations upon the human brain. The remaining larger and less known areas of the cortex are referred to as 'association centres' or areas of the 'higher psychic activities.' In development, the sensory fibres to the specific areas acquire their medullary sheaths first, before birth, and then the respective motor fibres from each become medullated. It is not till a month after birth that the association centres show medullation and therefore acquire active functional connection with the specific areas. In defining an area it is not claimed that all the fibres bearing a given type of impulse terminate in that area, nor that all the motor fibres leading to the given reaction originate in the area. It can only be said that of the fibres concerned in a given group of reactions, more terminate and arise in the given area than in any other area of the cortex. The corresponding motor fibres arise both in the region of the termination of the sensory fibres (sensory area) and also in a zone (motor area) either partially surrounding or bordering upon a part of the region of termination. The different areas are as follows: — (1) The somaesthetic (sensory-motor) area, the area of general sensibility, and the area in which arise the larger part of the cerebral motor or pyramidal fibres for the cortical control of the general muscular system. As is to be expected, it is the largest of the specific areas. It includes the anterior central gyrus, posterior central gyrus, the posterior ends of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal gyri, the paracentral lobules, and the upper portion of the adjacent part of the gyrus cinguli. The ascending or sensory fibres are said to terminate most abundantly in the part posterior to the central sulcus (Rolandi), the posterior central gyrus being the special area of cutaneous sensibility, and the adjacent anterior ends of the horizontal parietal gyri have been designated as the area of 'muscular sense.' Both these areas are carried over upon the medial surface to involve the lower part of the paracentral lobule and a part of the gyrus cinguli. The anterior central gyrus gives origin to relatively more motor fibres than the other portions of the somsesthetic area. In distribution, the muscles furthest away from the cortex are innervated from the most superior part of the area, the leg area being in the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, while that from the head is in the anterior and inferior part of the area (fig. 644). The muscles of mastication and the laryngeal muscles are controlled from the fronto-parietal oper- culum. Broca's convolution of the left side constitutes the especial area of speech, and Mills has extended this area to include the supero-anterior portion of the insula below. (2) The visual area.—The especial sensory portion of this area is that immediately border- ing upon either side of the posterior part of the calcarine fissure. The entire area, motor and sensory overlapping each other, includes the whole of the cuneus. The motor visual area proper is described as the more peripheral portion of the entire area. In addition, there is a small area producing eye movements situated in the posterior end of the middle frontal gyrus—an anterior extension of the somsesthetic area.