964 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM surface is separated by the dura mater from the temporal lobe of the brain, and the lower rests upon the motor root of the fifth nerve and the outer layer of dura mater upon the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The sensory root (portio major).—The fibres of the sensory root, as they leave the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion, form from thirty to forty fasciculi which are bound together into a flat band, from six to seven millimetres broad, which passes backwards over the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and below the superior petrosal sinus into the posterior fossa of the cranium. In the posterior fossa it runs backwards, medianwards, and downwards, and passes into the pons through its continuation into the middle of the cerebellum. In the teg- mentum of the pons region, the fibres bifurcate into ascending and descending branches which terminate about the cells of the (sensory) nucleus of termination of the trigeminus. This nucleus, large at the level of the entrance of the root, has a tapering inferior extremity which descends as low as the upper portion of the spinal cord and the fibres of the root terminating about the cells of this extremity are known as the spinal tract of the trigeminus. The motor root (portio minor).—The fibres of the motor root of the fifth nerve spring from two nuclei, a slender upper or mesencephalic nucleus, and a clustered lower or principal nucleus. The fibres arising in the mesencephalic nucleus descend along the lateral aspect of the nucleus to the pons as the descending or mesencephalic root; here they join the fibres from the principal motor nucleus and issue with them from the side of the pons in from six to ten fasciculi. The fasciculi blend to form the motor root, which is from one and a half to two millimetres broad. At the point where it emerges from the pons the motor root is in front of and ventral to the sen- sory root, and it is separated from the latter by a few of the transverse fibres of the pons which constitute the lingula of Wrisberg. From its superficial attachment the motor root passes upwards, lateralwards, and forwards in the posterior fossa of the cranium, and along the inner and anterior aspect of the sensory root, to the mouth of Meckel's cave. In this cavity it runs lateralwards below the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion to the foramen ovale, through which it passes to join the mandi- bular nerve immediately below the base of the skull. Central Connections.—The motor nuclei of the fifth nerve are connected with the lower part of the soma?sthetic area of the cerebral cortex of the opposite side by the genicular bundle of pyramidal fibres, and they are associated with the sensory nuclei of other cranial nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus. The sensory nuclei are connected with the soma?sthetic area of the cortex by the fibres of the medial lemniscus (fillet) and with the motor nuclei of other cranial nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus. (For detailed central connections see pages 808, 810.) THE BRANCHES OF THE TRIGEMINUS (1) The Ophthalmic Nerve The ophthalmic nerve is exclusively sensory, and is the smallest of the three branches which arise from the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion. It springs from the inner part of the front of the ganglion and passes forwards, in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies below the fourth nerve and to the outer side of the sixth nerve and the internal carotid artery (fig. 701). A short distance behind the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure the nerve divides into three terminal branches— the frontal, lachrymal, and naso-ciliary (nasal) nerves. They pierce the dura mater, which closes the fissure, and pass forwards into the orbit. Before its division the oph- thalmic nerve receives communicating filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic and it gives off, soon after its origin, a tentorial (recurrent meningeal) branch which runs backwards, in close association with the fourth nerve, and ramifies between the layers of the tentorium cerebelli. Further forwards three communica- ting branches spring from the ophthalmic nerve and connect it with the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. The Terminal Branches.—(a) The Frontal Nerve is the largest terminal branch. It pierces the dura mater and passes into the orbit through the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure, above the rectus lateralis and a little below and to the outer side of the fourth nerve. In the orbit it runs forwards, between the levator palpebral supe- rioris and the periosteum, and breaks up into three branches, the supra-orbital, frontal proper, and supratrochlear.