1047 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS The Lachrymal Apparatus The tears are secreted by an acinous gland, and flow through fine ducts to the upper outer part of the conjunctival sac, whence they are drained off through the puncta, pass along the canaliculi into the lachrymal sac, and ultimately run down the nasal duct to gain the inferior meatus of the nose. The lachrymal gland is situated near the front of the outer part of the roof of the orbit, lying in a depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It consists of two very unequal parts, one placed above and the other beneath the tendinous expansion of the levator palpebral superioris, but small gaps in the expansion per- mit of connections between these two parts of the gland. The upper and larger subdivision (superior lachrymal gland) is a firm elongated body, about the size of a small almond; it has a greyish-red colour, and is made up of closely aggregated lobules. The upper surface (next the orbital roof) is convex, and its lower surface is slightly concave. Anteriorly, the gland almost reaches the upper orbital mar- gin, and it extends backwards for approximately one-fourth the depth of the orbit, measuring about twelve millimetres in this direction. The outer border of the gland descends to near the insertion of the fascial expansion of the external rectus, while its inner border almost reaches the outer edge of the superior rectus; its transverse measurement is about twenty millimetres. It is enveloped in a capsule, which is slung by strong fibrous bands passing to its inner border from the orbital margin (suspensory ligament of the gland). Fig. 744.—Lachrymal Apparatus. (After Schwalbe.) FUNDUS JUNCTION LOWER PUNCTUM NASO-LACHRYMAL DUCT The lower subdivision of the gland (inferior lachrymal gland) is composed of loosely applied lobules, and lies immediately over the outer third of the upper conjunctival fornix, reaching outwards as far as the external canthus. Each subdivision of the gland possesses several excretory ducts, which all open on the outer part of the upper fornix conjunctivae, about four millimetres above the upper, border of the tarsus. Those of the superior gland, three or four in number, pass between the lobules of the lower gland; the outermost duct is the largest, and opens at the level of the external canthus. The ducts of the inferior gland in part discharge themselves into those of the upper, but there are also several fine ducts from this subdivision that run an independent course. Near the inner canthus are the two puncta lachrymalia, upper and lower, each situated at the summit of its papilla. The top of each papilla curves backwards towards the conjunctival sac, so that the puncta are well adapted for their function of draining off any fluid collecting there. The ductus (canaliculi) lachrymales extend from the puncta to the lachrymal sac. The lumen at the punctum is horizontally oval, from its lips being slightly compressed antero-posteriorly; the lumen of the lower punctum is somewhat larger than that of the upper. As the lower papilla is a little further from the inner canthus than the upper, the corresponding canaliculus is longer. On tracing either ductus from its origin, we find that at first it runs nearly vertically for a short distance, then bends sharply towards the nose, and finally courses more or less horizontally, converging slightly towards its fellow, and not infrequently joining it before opening into the sac. The calibre varies considerably