THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES S35 The inferior temporal gyrus forms the infero-lateral border of the temporal lobe, and is usually more broken up than the two gyri above it. It begins continuous with them in the frontal pole, and extends horizontally backwards into the lateral gyri of the occipital lobe. It is separated from the middle gyrus by the middle temporal sulcus, which likewise is never so continuous a furrow as the superior temporal sulcus. Frequently it occurs in detached portions and often terminates within the temporal lobe. The fusiform gyrus is in the basal and tentorial surface of the lobe (fig. 624). Its usual somewhat spindle shape suggests it's name, and it is continuous backwards into the occipital gyri, or its posterior end may be completely isolated by a union of the inferior temporal sulcus and the collateral fissure, which two furrows separate it from its neighbours on either side. Anteriorly the fusiform gyrus runs into the com- mon substance of the other three gyri at the temporal pole. The lingual gyrus is usually included in the tentorial surface of the temporal lobe, though in some texts it is regarded as a part of the occipital lobe. Its larger, posterior portion is continuous with and lies within the boundaries of the occipital lobe. Fig. 622.—Outline Drawing of Convex Surface of Left Cerebral Hemisphere. (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Rebman, London and New York.) Bounded laterally by the collateral fissure, it is continuous anteriorly into the hip- pocampal gyrus of the rhinencephalon. All of the sulci give off occasional lateral twigs (transverse temporal sulci) which themselves may or may not branch, and which tend to divide the main gyri into trans- verse temporal gyri. The lateral fissure (fissure of Sylvius).—As promised in its origin by the over- lapping and enclosing of the broad floor of the Sylvian fossa by the adjacent folds of the pallium, the lateral fissure is the deepest and most conspicuous fissure of the cere- bral hemisphere. Its main divisions are a short stem and three branches. The stem lies in the basal surface of the hemisphere, where it begins in a depression in the anterior perforated substance, the vallecula Sylvii, and passes forwards and upwards between and separating the temporal pole and the superciliary border of the frontal lobe. It corresponds in direction with the posterior border of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, which projects backwards into it, and it contains the middle cerebral artery, the Sylvian vein, and the sinus alse parvse. It appears on the upper surface at a point known in cranial topography as the Sylvian point, where it divides into its three branches:— (1) The posterior ramus is the linear continuation of the fissure, and runs horizon-