961 THE OCULO-MOTOR NERVE tween the roots of the small win?; of the sphenoid and the body of that bone, and it is in relation below and laterally with the ophthalmic artery. The intra-cranial portion, which is from ten to twelve millimetres long, runs backwards and medianwards, beneath the posterior part of the olfactory tract, and above the ophthalmic artery, the inner border of the internal carotid artery, and the diaphragma sellae. Central Connections.—The central connections of the fibres of the optic nerve have been considered with the optic chiasma and the optic tract (see p. 829). The Sheaths of the Optic Nerve.—The optic nerve receives a sheath from each of the membranes of the brain, and prolongations of the subdural and sub- arachnoid cavities also pass outwards along it to the posterior part of the sclera (fig. 658). THE THIRD PAIR—THE OCULO-MOTOR NERVES The third cranial nerve or oculo-motor is a purely motor nerve. Each supplies seven muscles connected with the eye, two of which, the sphincter of the iris and ciliary muscle, are within the bulbus oculi. The remaining five are in the orbital cavity, and four of them—the superior, inferior, and internal recti and the inferior oblique— are attached to the bulbus, while the fifth, the levator palpebrse superioris, is inserted into the upper eyelid. The fibres of each third nerve spring from their nucleus of origin situated in the grey substance of the floor of the aquseductus cerebri in the region of the superior quadri- geminate body (fig. 611). The cells of this nucleus are divided into two main groups, a superior and an inferior (fig. 612). The superior group includes two nuclei, a medial and a lateral. The latter, besides being lateral, is also somewhat dorsal to the former. The inferior group has been divided into six secondary nuclei, according to the eye- muscles the cells of each group innervate. Two of the six lie lateral to the others and somewhat dorsally, and of the remaining four, which are placed more medially, one lies in the mid-line (nucleus medialis) and is common to the oculo-motor nerves of both sides. It has been found, by the study of diseased conditions and by experiments with animals, that the centres of innervation of the eye-muscles supplied by the nerve correspond to the above divisions of both the superior and inferior group of cells into a medial and lateral series. The relative position of the divisions of each group and the muscles they are thought to innervate are shown in the following diagram devised by Starr:—: Mesial Plane. Superior Group. Inferior / Group. \ Sphincter of Iris. Ciliary Muscle. Ciliary Muscle. Sphincter of Iris. Levator Palpebrae Superioris. Internal Rectus. Internal Rectus. Levator Palpebrae Superioris. Superior Rectus. Inferior Rectus. Inferior Rectus. Superior Rectus. Inferior Oblique. Inferior Oblique. 61