1010 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM to the lumbar region, and many pass by the immediate peripheral branches to the splanchnic nerves. Among those which descend to the lumbar region are pilo-motor fibres, vaso-motor fibres, and secretory fibres to the lower limb, some vaso-constrictor fibres to the ab- dominal blood-vessels, motor fibres to the circular, and inhibitory fibres to the longi- tudinal muscle of the rectum. The latter enter the sympathetic trunk by the lower thoracic nerves and pass in the lumbar peripheral branches to the aortic plexus, and terminate around the cells of the inferior mesenteric ganglion. The fibres which pass through the thoracic ganglia to the splanchnic nerves are mainly vaso-motor fibres to the abdominal blood-vessels; the majority of them probably terminate around the cells of the ganglia in the cceliac (solar) plexus, but those for the renal blood-vessels no doubt end in the renal ganglia. In addition to all the above-mentioned fibres there are in the thoracic part of the sympathetic trunk afferent (splanchnic sensory) fibres of both sympathetic and cerebro-spinal type, passing towards the spinal ganglia and dorsal roots of the thoracic spinal nerves. THE LUMBAR PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK The lumbar portion of each trunk lies on the fronts of the bodies of the vertebrae along the anterior border of the psoas muscle, and nearer to the median line than the thoracic portion. It is connected with the thoracic portion of the sympathetic trunk by a slender intermediate portion of the trunk that may pass through the diaphragm or behind it (fig. 719). The continuation of the lumbar into the sacral portion is also slender, and descends behind the common iliac artery. The right trunk is partly covered by the vena cava inferior and the left by the aorta. The ganglia, which are small and oval, vary in number from three to eight, but are usually four. Rarely they are so fused as to form one continuous ganglion. White rami communicantes pass to the ganglia from the first two or three lum- bar nerves only. This portion of the trunk also receives efferent splanchnic fibres which are derived from the white rami communicantes of the lower thoracic nerves and continued downwards in the trunk. Branches.—As in the thoracic region, the communicating branches are central and peripheral. The central are grey rami communicantes. There may be two branches to a nerve or one ramus may divide so as to join two adjacent spinal nerves. Sometimes a spinal nerve may receive as many as five grey rami from the sympathetic trunk. The peripheral branches include:—(a) Branches passing to the aorta and taking part in the formation of the aortic plexus; (b) branches which descend in front of the common iliac artery to the hypogastric plexus; and (c) branches to the vertebras and ligaments. THE SACRAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK The sacral part of each trunk passes downwards in front of the sacrum, imme- diately outside the inner borders of the anterior sacral foramina. It is continu- ous above with the lumbar portion of the trunk, and below it anastomoses freely in front of the coccyx with the trunk of the other side to form a plexus in the terminus of which is the coccygeal ganglion (ganglion coccygewn impar) (fig. 719). Like the cervical and lower lumbar portions of the sympathetic trunk, the sacral part receives no white rami communicantes from the spinal nerves. The sacral ganglia are small in size, and usually four in number. The variation both in size and number is more marked in this portion of the trunk than in the other two parts. Branches.—The branches of the sacral ganglia include:— (1) Grey rami communicantes to the sacral nerves. (2) Branches to the front of the sacrum which anastomose with their fellows of the opposite side (commissural branches). (3) Branches which enter into the formation of the plexus on the middle sacral artery. (4) Branches which join the pelvic plexuses. (5) Branches given off by the ganglion coccygeum impar to the coccyx and its ligaments and to the glomus coccygeum (coccygeal gland).