THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 1008 THE THORACIC PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK The thoracic part of the trunk runs downwards on the heads of the ribs from the first to the tenth, and then passes a little ventralwards on the sides of the bodies of the lower two vertebrae. Above it is continuous with the cervical portion at the root of the neck, behind the vertebral artery. Below it leaves the thorax dor- sad to the medial lumbo-costal arch (arcuate ligament), or sometimes to the lateral lumbo-costal arch, and continues into the lumbar portion of the trunk. It lies behind the costal pleura and crosses over the aortic intercostal arteries. The number of ganglia in this part of the trunk is variable. There are usually ten or eleven, but the first is sometimes fused with the inferior cervical ganglion and occasionally other ganglia fuse. The ganglia are irregularly angular or fusiform in shape, and lie on the head of the ribs, on the costo-vertebral articulations, or on the bodies of the vertebra;. The portions of the trunk connecting the ganglia usually are single, but sometimes they are composed of two or three small cords in juxtapo- sition. Each ganglion, with the possible exception of the first, receives a white ramus communicans from a thoracic nerve and all give off grey rami communicantes to these nerves. The white rami communicantes, as they approach the sympathetic trunk, quite often appear double, due to the separation of a large portion of their fibres into two main streams, one passing upwards in the sympathetic trunk, and one pass- ing downwards. Of the white rami from the upper five thoracic nerves, the upward stream of fibres is much larger than the downward, due to the fact that a greater part of the efferent splanchnic fibres from these nerves are distributed through the cervical portion of the sympathetic trunk, as noted above in the construction of that portion. Usually the white rami from the nerves pass directly to the corresponding ganglia of the trunk, and thus lie in company with the corresponding grey rami. Some- times, however, they may join the intermediate portions of the trunk, and in the lower thoracic region especially, a ramus may pass from a nerve to the ganglion corre- sponding to the nerve above or below. The fibres of the white rami from the lower thoracic nerves are in greater part directed downwards in the sympathetic trunk, and also in its peripheral branches, to be distributed to the abdominal viscera. In all cases, however, some of the fibres of the thoracic white rami terminate in the ganglia nearest their junction with the trunk, while others pass into the nearest peripheral branches. In this way the white rami from all the thoracic spinal nerves, especially those of the mid-region, are directly concerned in the innervation of the thoracic viscera, lungs, oesophagus, aorta, etc. The first thoracic ganglion is larger than the other ganglia of this region and is irregular in form. It may be narrowly ovoid or semilunar. It lies in front of the neck of the first rib, behind the pleura, and on the inner side of the costo-cervical trunk (superior intercostal artery); this vessel separates it from the prolongation of the portion of the first thoracic nerve which passes to the brachial plexus. It sometimes fuses with the inferior cervical ganglion, and, on the other hand, sometimes extends to the upper part of the second rib to fuse with the second thoracic ganglion. The result of the latter fusion resembles the stellate ganglion of the carnivora, and when it occurs, is sometimes referred to as the ganglion stellatum. When largely developed, the first ganglion sends a branch to the cardiac plexus, the fourth cardiac nerve of Valentin. The second thoracic ganglion, triangular in shape and almost as large as the preceding, is sometimes placed on the costo-vertebral articulation, and is sometimes partly concealed by the first rib. The third to the ninth thoracic ganglia are usually placed opposite the heads of the corresponding ribs, but the tenth and eleventh may lie on the bodies of the vertebrae. The fibres passing from the ganglia form two groups of branches, the central and the peripheral. The central branches are the grey rami communicantes, which pass from the ganglia to the corresponding spinal nerves. After they have united with the an- terior primary divisions of the nerves, the fibres of these rami divide into four groups: —(1) Fibres which pass inwards along the roots of the nerves to supply the mem- branes of the spinal cord, or enter a meningeal or recurrent branch for the same purpose; (2) fibres which enter the spinal ganglion and terminate there (sensory