ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1022 depressed meshes at intervals. The radial ridges coming from the edge of the pupil, and those coming from the more peripheral part of the iris, meet in a zigzag elevated ridge concentric with the pupil, called the corona iridis, and by this ridge the iris is roughly marked off into two unequal zones—an outer, the greater or ciliary, and an inner, the lesser or pupillary—of which the inner is much the narrower. The border next the pupil is edged with small, roundish, bead-like prominences of a dark brown colour, separated from one another by depressions, so that it presents a finely notched contour. Not infrequently, in a light-coloured iris, we may see the sphincter muscle through the anterior layers, in the form of a ring about one milli- metre in breadth around the pupil. The ciliary zone may be described as con- sisting of three parts:—(a) A comparatively smooth zone next the zigzag ridge; (b) a middle area, showing concentric but incompletely circular furrows; (c) a small peripheral darker part, presenting a sieve-like appearance. On the floor of the large depressed meshes, or crypts, parallel radial vessels can be traced, belonging to the iris-stroma. The zigzag line mentioned above corresponds to the position of the circulus arteriosus minor. Occasionally, especially in a light iris, super- ficial pigment spots of a rusty brown colour occur. If we are examining the living eye, the ophthalmoscope should now be used, so as to gain a view of the fundus. We can thus study the termination of the optic nerve, the distribution of the larger retinal vessels, etc. The general red reflex obtained from the fundus is due to the blood in a capil- lary network (chorio-capillaris) situated in the inner part of the chorioid. To Fig. 724.—Left Fundus Oculi , as seen by direct Ophthalmoscopic Method. the nasal side of the centre of the fundus is a paler area of a disc shape corresponding to the intraocular end of the optic nerve, and known as the papilla of the optic nerve or optic disc. This optic disc is nearly circular, but usually slightly oval vertically; it is of a light orange-pink colour, with a characteristic superficial trans- lucency; its outer third segment is paler than the rest from the nerve-fibres and capillaries here being fewer. About its centre we often observe a well-marked whitish depression or gap, formed by the dispersion of the nerve-fibres as they spread out over the fundus; at the bottom of this depression a sieve-like appearance may be seen, due to the presence of the lamina cribrosa, which consists of a white fibrous tissue framework, with small, roundish, light-grey meshes in it, through which latter the nerve-fibre bundles pass. Also near the centre of the disc, the retinal blood-vessels first come into view, the arteries narrower in size and lighter in colour than the veins; they divide dichotomously as they are distributed over the fundus. The retina proper is so transparent as to be ophthalmoscopically invisible, but its pigment-epithelium gives a very finely granular or darkly stippled appearance to the general red reflex. In the centre of the fundus, and therefore to the outer side of the disc, the ophthalmoscope often shows a shifting halo of light playing round a horizontally oval, comparatively dark enclosed area; this latter corresponds to the yellow spot region, and about its centre a small pale spot usually marks the position of the fovea centralis. Retinal artery Retinal vein — LAMINA CRIBROSA MACULA LUTEA AND FOVEA CENTRALIS Two structures visible at the nasal end of the palpebral aperture have been previously mentioned, and should now be examined more narrowly. The lachry-