1054 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE otid (anterior) wall presents superiorly the tensor tympani muscle in its canal, and the opening of the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube) (fig. 751). Inferiorly, a thin, bony wall, covered with tympanic cellulse and pierced by the carotico-tympanic nerves, separates the tympanic cavity from the carotid canal. The membranous (lateral) wall is formed mainly by the tympanic membrane, with the small rim of bone to which it is attached, but superiorly the lateral wall of the epitympanic recess is formed by bone. The labyrinth (medial) wall (fig. 749) presents ventrally the promontory, with the tympanic plexus (Jacobson's nerve) lodged in grooves upon its surface. In- ferior and posterior to the promontory is a depression or fossula at the bottom of which is the cochlear fenestra (fenestra rotunda), closed by the secondary tympanic membrane, and posterior to the promontory is a smooth projection, the subiculum of the promontory, which forms the inferior border of a rather deep depression known as the tympanic sinus. Superiorly is the cochleariform process, and superiorly and pos- teriorly are a depression or fossula leading to the vestibular fenestra (fenestra ovalis), Fig. 749.—The Labyrinth (Medial) Wall of the Right Tympanum with the Tympanic Ossicles in Position. SHORT PROCESS OF INCUS LONG PROCESS OF INCUS CHORDA TVMPANI FACIAL NERVE PYRAMIDAL EMINENCE Tendon of stapedius STAPES COCHLEAR FOSSULA which is closed by the base of the stapes, the prominence of the facial (Fallopian) canal, and the prominence of the lateral semicircular canal. The tympanic cavity contains three small movable bones, joined together and to the walls of the cavity, and having attached to them special muscles and ligaments. These auditory ossicles form a chain across the tympanic cavity, connecting the tym- panic membrane and the vestibular (oval) fenestra. They are the malleus, the in- cus, and the stapes, and are described on p. 69. Articulations of the ossicles.—The manubrium and lateral process of the malleus are im- bedded in the tympanic membrane, and an irregularly elliptical articular surface on the posterior side of the head of the malleus is bound to the body of the incus by a thin capsular ligament, forming a diarthrodial joint, the incudo-malleolar articulation. From the inner surface of the capsular ligament, a wedge-shaped rim projects into the joint cavity and incompletely divides it. The long crus of the incus is arranged parallel but dorsal and medial to the manubrium of the malleus (figs. 749 and 751), and ends dorsally and superiorly to the tip of the manubrium in the lenticular process. The convex extremity of this fits into the concavity on the head of the stapes, to form a diarthrodial joint, the incudo-stapedial articulation. From its articulation with the incus the stapes passes almost horizontally across the tympanic cavity to its junction