986 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM sympathetic and form the anterior pulmonary plexus, from which fine twigs pass along the bronchus. (b) The posterior bronchial (pulmonary) branches.—Almost the entire re- maining trunk of the nerve divides into these branches, which communicate with branches from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic to form the posterior pulmonary plexus (fig. 706). The plexuses of the two sides communicate freely behind the bifurcation of the trachea, and branches from the plexus pass along each bronchus into the lung. (8) The pericardial branches pass from the trunk of the vagus or from the bron- chial or oesophageal plexuses to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the pericardium. (9) (Esophageal branches, given off by the trunk of the nerve above the bron- chial plexuses and from the oesophageal plexuses lower down, pass to the wall of the oesophagus. (10) Abdominal branches.—The terminal part of the left vagus divides into many branches, some of which communicate freely along the lesser curvature of the stomach with filaments from the gastric plexus of the sympathetic, and to some extent with branches of the right vagus, to form the elongated anterior gastric plexus (fig. 706). From this plexus as well as from the nerve-trunk, gastric branches are given to the anterior surface of the stomach. Hepatic branches from the trunk or from this plexus pass in the lesser omentum to the hepatic plexus (fig. 706). The terminal part of the right vagus divides into many branches, and forms along the lesser curvature of the stomach an elongated posterior gastric plexus by communications with branches from the gastric plexus of the sympathetic and with branches from the right vagus. Gastric branches are given off by the trunk of the nerve and from this plexus. Coeliac branches are given by the trunk to the cceliac (solar) plexus, and splenic and renal branches, either directly or through the cceliac (solar) plexus, are given to the splenic and renal plexuses (fig. 706). The Sensory Fibres of the vagus are processes of the cells of the jugular ganglion and the ganglion nodosum. The dendrites of the cells pass peripherally and the axones centrally. The latter enter the medulla in the filaments of attachment in the postero-lateral sulcus, and, in the reticular formation, they bifurcate into ascend- ing and descending branches which end in the nuclei of termination of the vagus, namely, in the nucleus alse cinerese in the floor of the fourth ventricle and in the nucleus tractus solitarii. The Motor Fibres spring from the nucleus ambiguus and join the sensory fibres in the reticular formation. Central Connections.—The central connections of the vagus are similar to those of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (fig. 598). Van Gehuchten's observations point to the conclusion that a. part of the nucleus of the ala cinerea is a motor nucleus common to the ninth and tenth nerves, and that the only nucleus of termination of the tenth nerve is that of the tractus solitarius. By way of the tractus solitarius, the sensory fibres of the vagus are probably associated with the cells of the cervical segments of the spinal cord which give origin to the phrenic nerve and to motor fibres supplying other muscles of respiration. THE ELEVENTH NERVE—THE SPINAL ACCESSORY The spinal accessory nerve is exclusively motor. It consists of two parts, the accessory or superior, and the spinal or inferior part. The fibres of the accessory or superior portion spring chiefly from the nucleus ambiguus, in common with the motor fibres of the vagus, and they pass through the reticular formation to the postero-lateral sulcus of the medulla, where they emerge as a series of filaments, below those of the vagus. The filaments pierce the pia mater and unite, as they pass outwards in the posterior fossa of the cranium, to form a trunk which enters the aperture in the dura mater common to the tenth and eleventh nerves. In the aperture this trunk is joined by the spinal portion of the nerve. The spinal or inferior portion arises from the ventro-lateral cells of the ventral horn of the cord as low as the fifth, and rarely the seventh, cervical nerve. The fibres pass dorsalwards and lateralwards from their origins through the posterior part of the ventral horn and through the lateral funiculus of white substance, and they emerge from the lateral aspect of the cord behind the ligamentum denticulatum, along an oblique line, the lower fibres passing out immediately behind the ligament, and the upper close to and sometimes in association with the dorsal roots of the upper