THE XERVOUS SYSTEM 954 The recurrent articular nerve passes inwards, around the neck of the fibula, and through the upper part of the origin of the extensor digitorum longus. At the inner border of the fibula it becomes associated with the anterior tibial recurrent artery, with which it ascends through the upper part of the tibialis anterior to the head of the tibia and the knee-joint. It supplies the tibialis anterior, the superior tibio-fibular joint, and the knee-joint. The terminal branches.—The superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous) nerve arises from the common peroneal between the peroneus longus and the neck of the fibula and descends in the intermuscular septum between the long and short peronei on the outer side, and the extensor digitorum longus on the inner side. It gives off muscular and cutaneous branches in its descent, and at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg it pierces the deep fascia and divides into an internal and an external branch (fig. 697). Branches.—Muscular branches are grven off to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis before the nerve pierces the deep fascia. Cutaneous branches pass from the trunk of the nerve to the skin of the lower part of the front of the leg. The internal cruciate branch, the medial dorsal cutaneous, passes downwards and inwards across the upper and lower bands of the dorsal digital (anterior annular) ligament of the ankle and subdivides into two branches. The inner branch passes to the inner side of the great toe; it also supplies twigs to the skin of the inner side of the foot, and it anastomoses with the deep saphenous nerve and with the internal ter- minal branch of the deep peroneal (anterior tibial) nerve. The outer branch passes to the base of the cleft between the second and third toes and divides into two dorsal digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the cleft. The external branch (intermediate dorsal cutaneous), in separating from the internal branch, crosses in front of the upper and lower bands of the cruciate ligament and divides into two dorsal digital branches, which pass beneath the dorsal venous arch. The inner of these branches supplies the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes (fig. 697). The outer branch communicates with the sural (external saphenous) nerve and is distributed to the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth toes. This latter branch is frequently replaced by the sural nerve. The deep peroneal (anterior tibial) nerve springs from the end of the common peroneal (external popliteal) nerve between the peroneus longus muscle and the neck of the fibula. It passes forwards and inwards through the upper part of the origin of the extensor digitorum longus, to the interval between that muscle and the tibialis anterior; then it descends, in the anterior compartment of the leg, to the ankle, where it divides into an inner and an outer terminal branch (fig. 697). In the upper part of the leg the nerve lies between the extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior and to the outer side of the anterior tibial artery. In the middle of the leg it is in front of the artery and between the extensor hallucis longus and tibialis an- terior; then it crosses beneath the extensor hallucis, and in the lower third of the leg it is again to the outer side of the artery, but between the extensor hallucis longus and the extensor digitorum longus. Branches furnished from the trunk of the nerve are muscular, articular, and terminal. The muscular branches supply the tibialis anterior, extensor digitorum longus, extensor hallucis longus, and peroneus tertius. Articular filaments are given to the ankle-joint and the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. Terminal branches.—The inner terminal branch passes downwards along the side of the dorsalis pedis artery and divides into two dorsal digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. It also gives filaments to the periosteum of the adjacent bones, to the metatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations, a twig to the dorsal interosseous muscle of the first space, and a per- forating twig which communicates with the lateral plantar nerve. The outer terminal branch passes outwards, beneath the extensor digitorum brevis, and it ends in a gangliform enlargement from which branches are distributed to the extensor digitorum brevis, the tarsal joints, and to the three outer inter- metatarsal spaces. The latter branches supply the neighbouring bones, periosteum, and joints. They give off perforating twigs, which pass through the spaces and anastomose with branches of the lateral plantar nerve, and the innermost also gives a twig to the second dorsal interosseous muscle.