877 TOPOGRAPHY OF THE BRAIN The line marking out the infero-lateral border commences at the posterior ena 01 the parieto- sphenoidal suture, whence it passes downwards, in front of the spheno-squamous suture, to the infra-temporal crest (pterygoid ridge); there it turns backwards and, running parallel with and internal to the zygomatic arch, it crosses the root of the zygoma, and, ascending slightly, it passes above the external auditory meatus. Continuing backwards with an inclination upwards it reaches a point immediately above the asterion; thence it descends, and, crossing the lower part of the lambdoid suture and the superior curved line, it passes inwards to the lower part of the external occipital protuberance. The supero-mesial border of the hemisphere is defined by a line which runs from the nasion to the inion. This line should be drawn about 5 mm. to the outer side of the sagittal suture, because the mesial area is occupied by the superior sagittal sinus, and it should be further away from the middle line on the right than on the left side, because the sinus tends to lie more to the right side. The area of the skull wall enclosed by the three lines which mark the positions of the super- ciliary, infero-lateral, and the supero-mesial borders of the cerebral hemisphere is formed by the vertical plate of the frontal bone, the parietal bone, the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous Fig. 651.—Drawing of a Cast of the Head of an Adult Male. (Prepared by Professor Cunningham to illustrate cranio-cerebral topography.) / part of the temporal, and the upper section of the supra-occipital segment of the occipital bone. It covers the outer surfaces of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes and the fissures and sulci which bound and mark them. In every consideration of the topographical relations of the cerebral gyri to the walls of the cranial cavity it must be borne in mind that the conditions are not constant, and that, therefore, the relations are variable. The three main factors upon which this variability depends are age, sex, and the shape of the skull. As examples of the variations which occur it may be mentioned that the lateral fissure is higher in the child than in the adult (compare figs. 651 and 652). The upper end of the central sulcus is further away from the coronal suture in the female and in the child than in the adult male, and in dolichocephalic than in brachycephalic heads. The angle formed between the line of the central fissure and the mid-sagittal plane, which averages about 68° in the adult, is more acute in dolichocephalic heads, and the external part of the parieto-occipital fissure is further forwards in the child, and possibly in the female, than it is in the adult male. The position of the posterior horizontal limb of the lateral fissure varies even in the adult. Its posterior part is always under cover of the parietal bone, and it terminates either in front of or below the parietal eminence, but the anterior part may be above, parallel with, or below the squamo-parietal suture. In the adult the anterior part of the fissure runs upwards and backwards