THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 844 lobe. The fusiform gyrus is bounded laterally by the inferior temporal sulcus, which sometimes is continuous by a lateral twig across the posterior end of this gyrus with the collateral fissure. The rhinencephalon.—The rhinencephalon or olfactory brain includes those portions of the cerebral hemisphere which are chiefly concerned as the central con- nections of the olfactory apparatus. Owing to the preponderant development of the other divisions of the hemisphere, the parts comprising this division appear relatively but feebly developed in the human brain. In most of the mammals the sense of smell is relatively much more highly developed, and in many of the larger mammals the parts comprising the rhinencephalon are of greater absolute size than in man, though their cerebral hemispheres may be considerably smaller. In the human foetus the parts of the rhinencephalon are relatively much more prominent than after the completed differentiations into the adult condition. In the broader sense of the term the rhinencephalon includes those parts of the hemisphere usually classed as comprising two lobes, viz., the olfactory lobe and the limbic lobe. Neither of these is a 'lobe' in the sense of comprising a definite segment of the hemisphere, as do the other lobes, and therefore the rhinencephalon cannot be called a distinct lobe. It is so strung out that by one or the other of its parts it is either in contact or continuity with each of the other lobes of the hemisphere. Fig. 627.—Brain of Human Fcetus of 22-5 Cm. (Beginning of Fifth Month), showing the Parts of the Developing Rhinencephalon Apparent on the Basal Surface. (After Retzius.) LATER A. GYR POSTERIOR PA SUL> UNCUS (J Morphologically, the rhinencephalon may be divided into an anterior and a pos- terior portion. The olfactory lobe proper may be considered as comprising the anterior portion of the rhinencephalon. This belongs almost wholly to the base of the encephalon, and consists of the following parts:— (1) The olfactory bulb is an elongated, oval enlargement of grey substance which lies upon the lamina cribrosa of the ethmoid bone, and, practically free, it presses under the anterior end of the olfactory sulcus of the basal surface of the frontal lobe. The numerous thin filaments of the olfactory nerve enter the cranium through the foramina of the lamina cribrosa and pass into the ventral surface of the bulb. (2) The olfactory tract is a triangular band of white substance which arises in the olfactory bulb, and continues backwards about 20 mm. to the region of the anterior perforated substance. It appears triangular in transverse section from the fact that its upper side fits into the olfactory sulcus. It becomes somewhat broader at its posterior end. (3) The olfactory trigone is the small triangular ridge joining in front the anterior perforated substance. Upon it the olfactory tract breaks up into three roots, the lateral, intermediate, and medial olfactory striae. The lateral olfactory stria emphasizes the lateral portion of the trigone into what is sometimes called the lateral olfactory gyrus, a portion of which is directly continuous into the limen insulce (figs. 624 and 627). While a few of the fibres of the lateral stria penetrate this portion,