758 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM contributing to its support; second, the arachnoid, a loosely constructed, thin membrane, separated from the pia mater by a considerable subarachnoid space; third, the dura mater, the outermost and thickest of the membranes, separated from the arachnoid by merely a slit-like space, the subdural space. The intimate association of the central system with all the peripheral organs is attained chiefly through the spinal cord, and this is accomplished by means of thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, which are attached along its lateral aspects. The nerves of each pair are attached opposite each other at more or less equal intervals along its entire length, and in passing to the periphery they penetrate the meninges, which contribute to and are continuous with the connective-tissue sheaths investing them. Each nerve is attached by two roots, an afferent or dorsal root, which enters the cord along its postero-lateral sulcus, and an efferent or ventral root, which makes its exit along the ventro-lateral aspect. With its inequalities in thickness and its conical termination the spinal cord is subdivided into four parts or regions:—(1) The cervical portion, with eight pairs of cervical nerves; (2) the thoracic portion, with twelve pairs of thoracic nerves; (3) the lumbar portion, with five pairs of lumbar nerves; and (4) the conus medul- laris, or sacral portion, with five pairs of sacral and one pair of coccygeal nerves. From the termination of the conus medullaris, the pia mater continues below in the subarachnoid space into the portion of the vertebral canal not occupied by the Fig. 565.—Dorsal View of Portion op Spinal Cord in Position in Vertebral Canal. spinal cord, and forms the non-nervous, slender, thread-like terminal, the filum terminale. This becomes continuous with the dura mater at its lower extremity. In the early foetus the spinal nerves pass from their attachment to the spinal cord outwards through the intervertebral foramina at right angles to the long axis of the cord, but, owing to the fact that the vertebral column increases considerably in length after the spinal cord has practically ceased growing, the nerve-roots become drawn caudad from their points of attachment, and, as is necessarily the case, their respective foramina are displaced progressively downwards as the termination of the cord is approached, until finally the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves extend downwards as a brush of parallel bundles considerably below the levels at which they are attached. This brush of nerve-roots is the cauda equina. The dura mater, being more closely related to the bony wall of the canal than to the spinal cord, extends with the vertebral column and thus envelopes the cauda equina, undergoing a slightly bulbous, conical termination. The enlargements.—Wherever there is a greater mass of tissue to be innervated, the region of the nervous system supplying such must of necessity pos- sess a greater number of neurones. Therefore, the regions of the spinal cord asso- ciated with the skin and musculature of the regions of the superior and inferior limbs are thicker than the regions from which the neck or trunk alone are inner- vated. Thus in the lower cervical region the spinal cord becomes broadened into the cervical enlargement, and likewise in the lumbar region occurs the lumbar DURA MATER SPINALISf — r