DIVISIONS OF NERVOUS SYSTEM 749 As usually studied, the nervous system is referred to in two main divisions:— (1) The central nervous system, composed of—(a) The spinal cord, or medulla spinalis, and (b) the brain or encephalon. (2) The peripheral nervous system, composed of—(a) The cerebro-spinal nerves, and (b) the sympathetic nervous system. All these parts are so intimately connected with each other that the division is purely arbitrary. The cerebro-spinal nerves are anatomically continuous with the central system; their component fibres either arise within or terminate within the confines of the central system, and thus actually contribute to its bulk. The sym- pathetic system, however, may be more nearly considered as having a domain of its own. It is intimately associated with the cerebro-spinal nerves and thus with the central system, both receiving impulses from the central system and transmitting Fig. 555.—Showing Some of the Varieties of the Cell-bodies of the Neurones of the Human Nervous System. A. From spinal ganglion. B. From ventral horn of spinal cord. C. Pyramidal cell from cere- bral cortex. D. Purkinje cell from cerebellar cortex. E. Golgi cell of type II from spinal cord. E. Fusiform cell from cerebral cortex. G. Sympathetic, a, axone; d, dendrites; c, collateral branches; ad, apical dendrites; bd, basal dendrites; cc, central process; p, peripheral process. impulses which enter it, but, while its activities are largely under the control of the central system, it is possible that impulses may arise in the domain of the sym- pathetic system and, mediated by its nerves, produce reactions in the tissues it sup- plies without involving the central system at all. For this reason, as well as because of the structural peculiarities of the sympathetic system, the nervous system is sometimes divided into—(1) the cerebro-spinal system, consisting of (a) the central systern and (6) the cerebro-spinal nerves; (2) the sympathetic nervous system, consisting of its various ganglia and plexuses. The nervous system consists of its peculiarly differentiated cell-elements, held in place by two forms of supporting tissue and accompanied by an abundant supply of blood-vessels. The nervous cell-element or the functional and structural unit of the system is called the neurone. The neurone is distinguished from all other units of structure