THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 948 relation, from above downward, with the following structures:—the posterior sur- face of the ischium and the nerve to the quadratus femoris, the gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus muscles. Muscular branches are given off at the upper part of the thigh to the semi- tendinosus, to the long head of the biceps femoris, to the semimembranosus, and to the adductor magnus, and, about the middle of the thigh, a branch is furnished to the short head of the biceps. The branch to the short head of the biceps is derived from the peroneal (external popliteal) portion of the nerve, while all the other muscular branches are given off by the tibial (internal popliteal) part. The semitendinosus receives two branches, one which enters it above and another which passes into it below its tendinous intersection. The nerve to the long head of the biceps descends along the sciatic trunk and enters the middle of the deep surface of the muscle. The nerves to the semimembranosus and adductor magnus arise by a common trunk which divides into three or four branches. One branch ends in the adductor, and the others are distributed to the semimembranosus. The branch to the adductor Fig. 694.—A Dissection of the Nerves in the Gluteal Region. (The gluteus maximus and gluteus medius have been divided near their insertions, and thrown upwards.) Inferior gluteal artery INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE Gluteal artery Gluteus medius SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NER VE Gluteus maximus BRANCH TO GLU- TEUS MAXIMUS PUDIC NERVE Gemellus inferior TUBEROSITY OF ISCHIUM LONG PUDENDAL Tendon of obturator externus POSTERIOR CUTANEOUS NER YE Vastus externus Gluteus maximus magnus supplies only those fibres of the muscle which begin from the tuberosity of the ischium and descend vertically to the internal condyle of the femur. At the apex of the popliteal space the two component parts of the common trunk of the sciatic become distinct. The tibial nerve (internal popliteal), formed by fibres from the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first, second, and third sacral nerves, passes vertically through the popliteal space, descends through the leg to a point midway between the internal malleolus and the most prominent part of the inner tubercle of the os calcis, where it divides into its terminal branches, the lateral 'plantar and the medial plantar nerves. The part of the nerve from the point of bifurcation to the lower border of the popliteus muscle is sometimes called the internal popliteal; the part of the nerve in the back of the leg being then designated the posterior tibial nerve. In the upper part of the popliteal space the tibial (internal popliteal) nerve lies relatively superficially, being covered dorsally by the skin and fascia, while in the lower part of the space it is overlapped by the heads of the gastrocnemius and is crossed by the plantaris. In the upper part of the space it lies in front of the posterior femoral cutaneous (small sciatic) nerve and to the outer