THE CARDIAC PLEXUS 1013 fibres which are passing, like the fibres from the sacral nerves, directly from the spinal cord to the cells of the plexuses. The Cardiac Plexus The cardiac plexus is formed by the cardiac branches from both vagus nerves and from both sympathetic trunks. It lies beneath and behind the arch of the aorta, in front of the bifurcation of the trachea, and extends a short distance upwards on the sides of the trachea. It is composed of a superficial and a deep part (fig. 720). The superficial part of the cardiac plexus is much smaller than the deep part, and lies beneath the arch of the aorta in front of the right pulmonary artery. It is formed chiefly by the cardiac branches of the left vagus and by the left superior cardiac nerve, but sometimes receives filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. The cardiac ganglion (ganglion of Wrisberg), usually found connected with this plexus, lies on the right side of the ligamentum arteriosum. Branches.—From this plexus some connecting branches pass to the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, and others accompany the left pulmonary artery to the left anterior pulmonary plexus. It also sends branches to the right anterior coronary plexus. The deep portion of the cardiac plexus lies behind the arch of the aorta at the sides of the lower part of the trachea and in front of its bifurcation. It consists of two lateral parts, more or less distinct, connected by numerous branches, which pass around the lower part of the trachea. It is formed by the superior, middle, and infe- rior cervical cardiac branches from the right sympathetic trunk, the middle and in- ferior cervical cardiac branches from the left trunk, and all the cervical and thoracic cardiac branches of the vagus nerves except the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the left vagus. It also receives branches from the superficial cardiac plexus. The left part of the deep cardiac plexus gives branches to the left atrium (auricle) of the heart, to the left anterior pulmonary plexus, to the left coronary plexus, and sometimes to the superficial part of the cardiac plexus. The right part of the deep cardiac plexus gives branches to the right atrium, to the right anterior pulmonary plexus, and to the right and the left coronary plexuses (fig. 720). The branches to the left coronary plexus pass behind the pulmonary artery. Some of those to the right coronary plexus pass anterior and some posterior to the right pulmonary artery. The coronary plexuses are formed by branches given off by the cardiac plexus. They accompany the coronary arteries and are right and left. The anterior (right) coronary plexus receives filaments from the superficial part of the cardiac plexus, but is formed chiefly by filaments from the right portion of the deep cardiac plexus (fig. 720). Its distribution to the heart follows that of the right coronary artery. The posterior (left) coronary plexus is larger than the anterior plexus, and is formed for the most part by filaments from the left portion of the deep cardiac plexus, but it receives some filaments from the right portion of the deep cardiac plexus (fig. 720). Its distribution to the heart follows that of the left coronary artery. The cardiac plexus and the network of nervous structures in the walls of the atria are the remains of the primitive plexuses found in the embryo, which are called the bulbar, the inter- mediate, and the atrial plexuses, terms which sufficiently indicate their relative positions. The bulbar plexus gives off the coronary nerves and is transformed into the superficial part of the deep cardiac plexus; the remainder of the deep cardiac plexus is formed by the intermediate plexus, and the atrial plexus becomes the network of the atrium. The fibres which pass to the cardiac plexus are medullated and non-medullated ; the former are inhibitory, the latter motor. The inhibitory impulses leave the cen- tral nervous system by the spinal accessory and vagus nerves. The motor fibres leave the spinal cord by the ventral roots and white rami communicantes of the thoracic nerves and terminate about the cells of the intervening sympathetic ganglia. From the cells of these ganglia arise the non-medullated (grey) fibres of the plexus. The Cceliac Plexus The cceliac (solar or epigastric) plexus is the largest of the prevertebral plexuses. It is unpaired, and is continuous above with the aortic plexus of the thorax and below