763 THE SPINAL CORD the sulcus. The ventral horns vary markedly in shape in the different regions. In certain segments each ventral horn clearly presents its two component columns of grey substance: the lateral horn (columna lateralis), a triangular projection of grey substance into the surrounding white substance, in line with or a little ventral to the line of the grey commissure; and the ventral horn proper {columna anterior), projecting ventrally. In the mid-thoracic region the lateral horn is relatively insig- nificant, and the anterior horn is quite slender ; in the cervical and lumbar enlarge- ments both horns are considerably enlarged and fuse into one large column. The grey substance is not sharply demarcated from the white. In the blending of the two there often are small fasciculi of white substance embedded in the grey, and likewise the grey substance sends fine processes among the axones composing the white substance. Such processes or grey trabecular are most marked along the lateral aspects of the grey figure and present there the appearance known as the reticular formation. The reticular formation of the spinal cord is most evident in the cervical region (fig. 569). The large cell-bodies of the ventral horn as a whole are divisible into four groups, only two of which are to be distinguished in the mid-thoracic region of the spinal cord:—(1) A ventral group of cells, sometimes separated into a ventro-lateral and a ventro-medial portion (see figs. 569 and 571), occupies the anterior column, is constant throughout the entire length of the cord, and contributes axones to the ventral root, most of which probably supply the muscles proximal to the spinal column; (2) a dorso-medial group of cells, situated in the medial part of the ventral horn, just below the level of the central canal, gives origin to axones some of which go to the ventral root of the same side, but most of which cross the mid-line via the anterior white commissure, either to pass out in the ventral root of the opposite side or to enter the white substance of that side and course upwards or downwards, asso- ciating with other levels of the cord. Some of its axones terminate among the cells of the ventral horn in the same level of the opposite side; (3) a lateral group of cells, sometimes separated into a dorso-lateral and a ventro-lateral portion, occupies the lateral column of the horn, and is best differentiated in the cervical and lumbar enlargements. Most of the axones arising from its larger cells are contributed to the ventral root of the same side, and such axones probably supply the muscles of the extremities. Some of those from its ventral portion are distributed to the muscles of the body-wall; (4) 'an intermediate group, occupying the mid-dorsal portion of the ventral horn. Axones arising from its cells are probably seldom contributed to the ventral root, but instead course wholly within the central nervous system. Some pass to the opposite side of the cord, chiefly via the anterior and possibly the posterior white commissure, to terminate either in the same or different levels of the grey col- umn. Others of longer course pass to the periphery of the cord, join one of the cere- bellospinal fasciculi, and pass upwards to the cerebellum. Furthermore, there are scattered throughout the grey substance many smaller nerve-cells. These give rise to axones of shorter course, either commissural or associational proper. Of such axones many are quite short, coursing practically in the same level as that in which their cells of origin are located, and serve to con- nect the different parts of the grey substance of that level. Others course varying distances upwards and downwards for the association of different levels of the grey column. It is evident from the above that in addition to the various nerve-cells it contains, there is also to be found a felt-work of axones in the grey substance. Many of these axones are medullated, though not in sufficient abundance to destroy the grey char- acter of the substance. The felt-work is composed of three general varieties of fibres: —(1) The terminal twigs of axones and their collaterals entering from the fasciculi of the white substance and forming end-brushes about the various cell-bodies in the grey substance (partly medullated); (2) axones given off from the cells of the grey substance and which pass into the surrounding white substance either to enter the ventral roots or to join the ascending and descending fasciculi within the spinal cord (partly medullated); (3) axones of Golgi cells of type II, which do not pass outside the confines of the grey substance (non-medullated). Some axones of any of these varieties may cross the mid-line and thus become commissural. In general all fibres of long course acquire medullary sheaths a short distance from their cells of origin, and lose them again just before termination. The white substance of the spinal cord.—The great mass of the medullated