768 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The ascending branches of the dorsal root axones also give off collaterals to the grey substance of the cord, thus extending the area of distribution of a given posterior nerve-root to levels of the cord above the region at which the root enters. The greater number of the terminations of dorsal root axones within the spinal cord are concerned with neurones other than those contributing ventral root-fibres. The greater mass of the neurones concerned are those contributing the fasciculi proprii or ground bundles of the spinal cord, or the second variety of axones composing the posterior funiculus. The latter fasciculi arise from the smaller cells of the grey column. Fig. 570.—Showing Disposition of the Dorsal Root-fibres Upon Entering Spinal Cord. (From Edinger. after Cajal.) A, shows dorsal root axones DR, entering the spina] cord, bifurcating B. and giving off collat- erals C to the neurones of the cord. B shows the terminal twigs of these axones or of their collaterals displayed upon cell-bodies of the grey substance of the cord. They enter the surrounding white substance, bifurcate into ascending and descend- ing branches, which in their turn give off numerous collaterals to the cells of the grey substance of the levels through which they pass. The cell-bodies giving origin to such axones are so numerous that the entire column of grey substance is sur- rounded by a continuous felt-work of axones of this variety. The dorsal fasciculus proprius (anterior root zone of posterior column) arises chiefly from cells situated in the dorsal horn (stratum zonalc). Coincident with the ingrowth and arrangement of the fasciculi gracilis and cuneatus many fibres of the dorsal fasciculus proprius go to form both the oval bundle and the comma-shaped fasciculus. Thus these two bundles are mixed, being fasciculi proprii which contain caudad branches of dorsal root axones. The 'median triangle' is formed by the con- tinuation of the dorsal fasciculi proprii with the oval or septo-marginal fasciculus.