THE CEREBELLUM 791 these bands its folia curve and become continuous with the tonsils. The uvula and the two tonsils are sometimes referred to collectively as the uvular lobe. 4. The nodule is the smallest and most anterior division of the inferior vermis. It is separated from the uvula by the post-nodular fissure, and is closely associated anteriorly with the posterior medullary velum, the transverse continuation of the peduncles of the floccular lobes. Internal structure of the cerebellum.—The white substance of the cerebellum is continuous with its peduncles and forms a compact central mass. Over the sur- face of this the grey substance or cortex is spread in a thin but uniform layer. Upon section of the cerebellum certain of the sulci as well as the fissures are shown to be much deeper than is apparent from the surface. The deeper sulci separate the lobes into divisions, the medullary laminae, each of which is composed of a number of folia and each of which has its own core of white substance. The folia of the laminae line the sulci (and fissures), and also comprise their surface aspect, and are separated by the shallow, secondary sulci. The larger laminae are subdivided into from two to four secondary laminae of varying size. Such subdivision is especially marked in the vermis. Here each lamina comprises a lobule and is, therefore, separated by Fig. 587.—Diagram of the Ventral and Inferior Surface of the Cerebellum after the Removal of the Medulla Oblongata, Pons, and Mesencephalon. The tonsil of the right side is omitted in order to display the connection of the pyramid with the biventral lobe, the furrowed band of the uvula, and more fully the posterior medullary velum. The anterior notch is less evident than in the actual specimen. SUPERIOR CEREBEL- LAR PEDUNCLE POSTERIOR MEDUL- LARY VELUM MIDDLE CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLE FLOCCULUS BIVENTRAL LOBE LOBULUS GRACILIS ANTERIOR LOBULUS. GRACILIS POSTERIOR INFERIOR. SEMIL UNAR LOBE ANTERIOR FOURTH MEDULLARY VENTRICLE VELUM LING ULA NODULE UVULA TONSIL TUBER VERMIS PYRAMID POSTERIOR CEREBELLAR NOTCH a fissure, and each lobule is usually subdivided with the exception of the nodule, the folium, and the lingula. In sagittal sections, or sections transverse to the general direction of the sulci, this arrangement of the laminae gives a foliate appearance, which, especially in sagittal sections of the vermis, is termed the 'arbor vitee.' The cerebellar cortex consists of three layers and contains four general types of cell-bodies of neurones, all of which possess features peculiar to the cerebellum. The outermost or molecular layer contains small stellate cells with relatively long den- drites. These serve to associate the different portions of a given folium. The axones of the largest of them give off branches which form pericellular baskets about the bodies of the cells of Pur- kinje, each axone contributing to several baskets. The layer of Purkinje cells, or the middle layer, is quite thin. The bodies of the cells of Purkinje are arranged in a single layer, and their elaborate systems of dendrites extend throughout and largely compose the molecular layer. The dendrites of these, the most essential cells of the cortex, are displayed in the form of arborescent fans (see fig. 555), arranged parallel with each other and transverse to the long axis of the folium containing them. Their axones are given off from the base of the cell-body, acquire their medullary sheaths quite close to the cell-body, and, after giving off several collaterals in the inner layer, pass into the general white substance and thence to other lamina? or lobes and certain of- them to structures outside the cerebellum. The inner layer is the granular layer. It contains numerous small nerve-cells or granule-cells which possess from two to five radiating dendrites, unbranched except at their termination, which occurs suddenly in the form of three to six claw-like twigs. Their axones are given off either from the cell-body direct or more often