1057 THE INTERNAL EAR The tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube) (fig. 747) extends from the carotid (an- terior) wall of the tympanic cavity inferiorly, medially, and ventrally to the pharynx. It is about 37 mm. (l-5 in.) long, and throughout one-third of its length has a bony wall, that of the other two-thirds being cartilaginous. The osseous part (see p. 66) begins at the tympanic ostium on the anterior wall of the tympanic cavity. It is in relation medially and inferiorly with the carotid canal, and gradually contracts to its irregular medial extremity, which is the narrowest point in the tube, and is termed the isthmus. The cartilaginous part is firmly attached to the osseous and lies in a sulcus at the base of the angular spine of the sphenoid bone. It grad- ually dilates in its passage to the lateral wall of the pharynx, where its opening, phar- yngeal ostium, is just posterior to the inferior nasal concha (turbinated bone). The walls of the cartilaginous part are formed by a cartilaginous plate which is folded so as to form a trough-like structure, consisting of a medial and a lateral lamina, com- pleted inferiorly by a membranous lamina formed of connective tissue. A small portion of the lumen in the superior part of the cartilaginous tube remains permanently open; elsewhere the walls are in contact, except during deglutition, when they are opened by the tensor and levator veli palatini muscles. The mucosa of the osseous part is thin, and firmly attached to the bony wall, but in the cartilaginous part it becomes thicker, looser, and folded, and contains mucous glands, especially near the pharynx, where there is also some adenoid tissue. The development of the external and middle ear.—Embryologically the external and middle ears have a common origin quite distinct from that which gives rise to the internal ear, and are to be regarded as portions of the branchial arch apparatus, secondarily adapted to auditory purposes. They are formed from the upper part of the first branchial cleft (see p. 9), and the adjacent portions of the first and second branchial arches. The branchial cleft is represented in the human embryo by an external and a corresponding internal or pharyngeal groove, separated by a thin membrane, there being no formation of an actual cleft. The lower portion of the external groove closes, while the upper part persists as the external acoustic meatus, the auricle being formed from the adjacent portions of the first and second branchial arches. The first arch gives rise to the tragus, and the cms and upper portion of the helix, and the second arch to the remainder of the helix, the anthelix, antitragus, and lobule. The membrane forming the floor of the groove and separating it from the pharyngeal groove becomes the tympanic membrane, which is thus lined on its outer surface by ectoderm and on its inner by endoderm. The lips of the upper part of the pharyngeal groove unite, so that the portion of the groove is converted into a cavity, from which are formed the tympanic cavity and the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube); the lower portion of the groove remains open and is rep- resented in the adult by the fossa in which the tonsil lies, and by the supratonsillar fossa. The auditory ossicles and their muscles are derived from the neighbouring arches, the malleus and incus, together with the tensor tympani, being derived from the first arch, while the stapes and stape- dius come from the second. The tympanic cavity is at first quite small, but later increases greatly, partly by the con- densation of the loose areolar tissue which underlies its mucous membrane, the auditory ossicles and their muscles being thus apparently brought within the cavity, and partly by the absorption of the neighbouring bone. By this latter process the antrum and the tympanic and mastoid cells are formed, all these depressions or cavities being lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the tympanic cavity. THE INTERNAL EAR The internal ear is the essential part of the organ of hearing. It consists of a cavity, the osseous labyrinth, contained within the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and enclosing a membranous labyrinth. The osseous labyrinth is divided into cochlea, vestibule, and semicircular canals, which have been described on pages 69 to 71. The membranous labyrinth, in which the acoustic nerve ends, lies within the osseous labyrinth, the form of which it more or less closely resembles. It is much smaller in diameter than the osseous, and its delicate walls are separated from the bone by an endothelial-lined space which is filled with a fluid, the perilymph, while the fluid which it itself contains is termed the endolymph. The portion of the membranous labyrinth situated in the vestibule consists of two sacs, the utricle and saccule (figs. 755, 756, 757). The utricle is an oval tubular sac, whose rounded end lies in the superior and dorsal portion of the vestibule. It is here tightly bound to the elliptic recess (fovea hemielliptica) by connective tissue and by the entrance of the filaments of the utricular division of the acoustic nerve as they pass from the superior macula cribrosa to the wall of the utricle. In the anterior part of the interior of the utricle, an 67