888 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM scends from its central part which is elevated, and consequently it forms a tent-shaped covering. Its upper surface is in relation with the tentorial surfaces of the hemispheres, and its lower surface conforms accurately to the upper surface of the cerebellum. The outer or convex border of the fold is attached on each side to the posterior clinoid process, the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and the horizontal ridge of the occipital bone. The transverse sinus lies in this border. From the internal occipital protuberance to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone and along the petrous part of the temporal bone it encloses the superior petrosal sinus. The greater part of the inner or anterior border of the tentorium is free, and it forms the superior and lateral boundaries of an arched cavity, the tentorial notch or foramen ovale of Pacchioni, which encloses the mesencephalon, and through which ascend the cerebral peduncles and the posterior cerebral arteries. The anterior extremities of the inner border cross the outer border, and they are attached to Fig. 660.—The Cranium with Encephalon Removed to show the Falx Cerebri, the Tentorium Cerebelli, and the places where the Cranial Nerves pierce the Dura Mater. (Sappey.) the anterior clinoid processes. A depressed angle is formed between the inner and outer borders of the tentorium in the middle fossa of the skull at the outer side of the posterior clinoid process, and in this angle the root of the third nerve pierces the inner layer of the dura mater. The falx cerebelli is a small, sickle-shaped, triangular fold which projects down- wards and forwards, into the small groove (posterior cerebellar notch), between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is attached to the tentorium; its superior border, along which runs the occipital sinus, is attached to the internal occipital crest. Its anterior border is free, and its apex, which lies immediately behind the foramen magnum, usually bifurcates as it disappears anteriorly, grasping the foramen magnum from behind. Bifurcation is always the case when the internal occipital crest splits below to enclose a vermiform fossa. The diaphragma sellae is a small circular fold, deficient in the centre, which projects horizontally from the margins of the hypophyseal fossa or sella turcica. Its outer border is attached to the clinoid processes and the limbus of the sphenoid, FOURTH NERVE THIRD NERVE Middle meningeal artery Internal carotid artery Vertebral artery