THE TRIGEMINAL NERVE 967 Branches.—The branches of the maxillary nerve are—(a) branches given off in the middle fossa of the cranium; (6) branches given off in the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa; (c) branches given off in the infra-orbital sulcus and canal; and (d) terminal branches. (a) The middle (recurrent) meningeal branch, given off in the middle fossa of the cranium, breaks up into numerous branches which supply the dura mater, reinforce the sympathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery, and anastomose with the spinous nerve (the recurrent branch of the mandibular nerve). (b) The branches given off in the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa are the spheno-palatine nerves, the zygomatic branch, and the posterior superior alveolar nerves. The spheno-palatine branches, one, two, or three branches, pass downwards in the pterygo-palatine fossa and give a small part of their fibres to the spheno-pala- tine (Meckel's) ganglion (fig. 702), the larger part of their fibres passing to the orbital, nasal, and palatine branches of the ganglion. (See Spheno-palatine Ganglion, p. 972.) Fig. 702.—Maxillary Nerve seen from Without. MANDIBULAR OPHTHALMIC MAXILLARY ZYGOMATIC SUPERIOR MEDIAL ALEVOLAR BRANCH The zygomatic (orbital or temporo-malar) branch, given off from the upper surface of the maxillary nerve, passes forwards and lateralwards, and, at the end of the inferior orbital (spheno-maxillary) fissure, passes through it into the orbit and divides into two branches, facial and temporal. The zygomatico-facial (malar) branch runs forwards, passes through a zygo- matico-orbital foramen, then through the zygomatico-facial (malar) foramen, pierces the orbicularis oculi, communicates with the zygomatic (malar) branch of the seventh nerve, and supplies the skin of the prominence of the cheek. The zygo- matico-temporal (temporal) branch runs upwards in a groove in the outer wall of the orbit, passes through a zygomatico-orbital foramen, then through the zygomatico- temporal (spheno-malar) foramen, and enters the temporal fossa. It turns around the anterior border of the temporal muscle, pierces the deep layer of the temporal fascia, and runs backwards for a short distance in the fat between the superficial and deep lamellae, then, turning outwards, it pierces the superficial lamellae about an inch above the zygoma, anastomoses with the temporal branch of the facial nerve, and supplies the skin of the anterior part of the temporal region. Three sets of superior alveolar nerves arise from the maxillary and the infra-