THE TRIGEMINAL NERVE 963 mater and enters the posterior end of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. In the wall of the cavernous sinus it forms communications with the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic and by a small filament with the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It gradually ascends, as it passes forwards in the outer wall of the sinus, and, beyond the middle of the sinus, it crosses the outer side of the trunk of the oculo-motor nerve and gains a higher position. At the anterior end of the sinus the nerve enters the orbit above the external rectus and immediately turns inwards between the periosteum of the roof and the levator palpebrae superioris. At the inner border of the roof of the orbit it turns forwards to its termination, and enters the orbital or superior surface of the superior oblique muscle to which its fibres are distributed. The Central Connections of the nucleus of the trochlear nerve are similar to those of the oculo-motor save that its cells probably do not send fibres which connect with the facial nerve. The trochlear is peculiar in that—(1) it is the smallest of the cranial nerves; (2) it is the only nerve having its superficial attachment upon the dorsal aspect of the encephalon; (3) it is the only cranial nerve whose fibres undergo a total decussation, and (4) in that it terminates in a muscle of the side of the body opposite that in which it has its origin. Gaskell has suggested that this latter condition has probably been brought about, phylogenetically, by the transference of the muscles which have carried their nerves with them. THE FIFTH PAIR—THE TRIGEMINAL NERVES Each fifth or trigeminus nerve is the largest of the cranial nerves with the exception of the optic, and it possesses both a sensory and a motor root. The fibres of the sen- sory root spring from the cells of the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion, which cor- responds with the ganglion on the dorsal root of a spinal nerve, and those of the motor root issue from the side of the pons, close by the side of the entering fibres of the sensory root. The semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion is a semilunar mass which lies in Meckel's cave, a cleft in the dura mater above a depression in the inner part of the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The convexity of the ganglion is turned forwards, and from it three large nerves, the ophthalmic, the maxillary, and the mandibular, are given off. From the concavity, which is directed backwards, springs the sensory or afferent root of the fifth nerve. The inner end of the ganglion is in close relation with the cavernous sinus and the internal carotid artery at the foramen lacerum, and the outer end lies to the inner side of the foramen ovale. The surfaces of the ganglion are striated, due to bundles of fibres traversing them. The upper