777 THE ENCEPHALON Laterally the temporal lobes, with their rounded anterior extremities, the tem- poral poles, are each separated from the frontal and parietal lobes above by the lateral cerebral fissure (fissure of Sylvius). In the depths of this fissure and over- lapped by the temporal lobe is situated the insula, or island of Reil (central lobe). The surface of each cerebral hemisphere is thrown into numerous folds or curved elevations, the gyri cerebri or convolutions, which are separated from each other by slit-like fissures, the sulci cerebri. The gyri (and sulci) vary greatly in length and in their degrees of curvature. The larger and deeper of them are similar in the two hemispheres; most of them are individually variable, but each gyrus of one hemi- sphere is homologous with that of the like region of the other hemisphere. By gently pressing open the great longitudinal fissure, the corpus callosum, the chief com- missural pathway between the cerebral hemispheres, may be seen. The occipital margin of this large transverse band of white substance is rounded and thickened into the splenium of the corpus callosum, while its frontal margin is curved ventrally into the genu. The base of the encephalon is more irregular than the convex surface, and con- sists of a greater variety of structures. In the mid-line between the frontal lobes appears the anterior and inferior extension of the great longitudinal fissure. When the margins of this are separated, the outer aspect of the rostrum of the corpus callosum, the downward continuation of the curve of the genu, is exposed. The inferior surface of each frontal lobe is concave, due to its compression upon the superior wall of the orbit. The orbital gyri with their respective orbital sulci occupy this concave area. The cranial nerves (nervi cerebrales).—Along the mesial border of each orbital area, and parallel with the great longitudinal fissure, lie the olfactory bulbs con- tinued into the olfactory tracts. Each olfactory bulb is the first central connec- tion or 'nucleus of reception ' of the olfactory nerve, the first of the twelve cranial nerves. A few fine filaments of this nerve may often be discerned penetrating the ventral surface of the bulb. They are non-medullated. The olfactory bulb and tract lies in the olfactory sulcus, which forms the lateral boundary of the gyrus rectus, the most mesial gyrus of the inferior surface of the frontal lobe. Upon reaching the area of Broca (area parolfactoria), or the region about the inner extremity of the gyrus rectus, each olfactory tract undergoes a slight expansion, the olfactory tuber- cle, and then divides into three roots or olfactory striae—a medial, an intermediate, and a lateral, which comprise the olfactory trigone. The stria; begin their respec- tive courses upon the anterior perforated substance, an area which contains numerous small foramina through which the antero-lateral group of central cerebral arteries enters the brain. This region forms the anterior boundary of that area of the basis encephali in which the substance of the brain becomes continuous across the mid-line. At the inner boundary of the anterior perforated substance the optic nerves (the second pair of cranial nerves) come together and fuse to form the optic chiasma. Thence the optic tracts disappear under the poles of the temporal lobes in their back- ward course to the thalami and corpora geniculata or metathalami. Immediately behind the optic chiasma occurs that diverticulum from the floor of the third ventricle known as the tuber cinereum. It is connected by its tubular stalk, the infundibulum, with the hypophysis or pituitary body, which occupies its special depression (sella turcica) in the floor of the cranium and is usually torn from the encephalon in the process of its removal. Behind the tuber cinereum are the two mammillary bodies (corpora albicantia), each of which is the superficial evidence of the fornix, one of the larger association fasciculi of the cerebrum. The peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cerebri) are the two great funiculi which connect the cerebral hemispheres with all the structures below them. They diverge from the anterior border of the pons (Varolii) and, one for each hemisphere, disappear under the poles of the temporal lobes. The pons (brachium pontis or middle cerebellar peduncle) is chiefly a bridge of white substance or commissure between the cerebellar hemispheres. The oculomotor or third pair of cranial nerves make their exit from the poste- rior perforated substance in the interpeduncular fossa just behind the corpora mammillaria. The trochlear nerves, or the fourth pair, emerge around the lateral aspects of the pedunculi cerebri along the anterior border of the pons. The fourth is the