ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1064 tinguished.' The filiform papillae are the smallest and most numerous, and are fili- form or conical in shape and thickly cover the ventral two-thirds of the dorsum and also the lateral margins and apex. They are arranged in faintly marked lines which are parallel posteriorly with the terminal sulcus, but become more transverse towards the tip. They are best developed dorsally in the middle line, and those which are largest and longest are known as the conical papillae. The fungiform papillae are scattered irregularly among the preceding over the dorsum, lateral margins, and apex of the tongue, being most numerous in the two latter situations. The epithelium covering them is thinner than in the filiform papilla?, and they are, therefore, redder in colour. Each consists of a comparatively narrow base supporting a broader, rounded, free extremity. Many on the margins are flattened or lens shaped, and are called lenticular papillae. The vallate (circumvallate) papillae, seven to twelve in num- ber, are the largest. They are arranged in a V-shaped line ventral to the terminal sulcus and parallel with it. Each presents an attached base slightly narrower than the broad, flattened, free top, and is situated in a circular depressed fossa surrounded by a slight ridge, so that the top of the papilla and the ridge project but slightly above the surrounding surface. In the fossa one or more serous glands open. The foliate papillae are represented by six or seven vertical folds of mucous membrane separated by grooves. They are situated upon the lateral margin of the tongue just ventral to the glosso-palatine arch, and are more or less rudimentary in man, compared with their development in some of the lower mammals. The gustatory organ is formed by microscopic special end-organs of taste, the caliculi gustatoria or taste-buds, which, besides being found upon the epiglottis and velum palatinum (soft palate), are located on the vallate, fungiform, lenticular, and foliate papillae, but are absent from the filiform and conical. Beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue abundant lymphoid tissue is collected to form nodular masses of variable size, the lingual follicles, which are grouped together under the name of the lingual tonsil. They extend from the terminal sulcus to the epiglottis, and laterally as far as the palatine tonsils. The lingual glands which lie beneath the mucous membrane of the lingual tonsil are especially abundant near the foramen caecum and around the vallate and foliate papillae. A special group forms on each side of the frenulum, and just medial to the tip of the tongue, an oval mass, the anterior lingual glands (glands of Nuhn or Blandin), which are partially covered by muscular fibres. Muscles of the tongue.—A layer of fibrous connective tissue, the lingual sep- tum, separates the halves of the tongue, extending in the median plane from the apex to the base, where it is attached to the hyoid bone. The muscles of the tongue are classified as extrinsic and intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles are the hyo-glossus, genio-glossus, stylo-glossus, and glosso-palatinus (palato-glossus), and part of the