949 THE TIBIAL NERVE side of the vein and artery; at the middle of the space it is behind and in the lower part of the space it is internal to both of them. The branches given off by the tibial nerve in the popliteal space are articular, cutaneous, and muscular. The articular branches are usually three in number, a superior and an inferior internal articular and an azygos articular. They accompany the corresponding ar- teries, and, after piercing the ligaments, are distributed in the interior of the joint. The superior branch is often wanting. The cutaneous branch, the medial sural cutaneous (tibial communicating) nerve, descends between the heads of the gastrocnemius, beneath the deep fascia, to the middle of the calf, where it pierces the fascia and unites with the peroneal anastomotic branch of the lateral sural cutaneous to form the sural (external saphenous) nerve, through which its fibres are distributed to the skin of the lower and back part of the leg and the outer side of the foot. The muscular branches are distributed to both heads of the gastrocnemius, to the plantaris, soleus, and popliteus. The nerve to the soleus is relatively large, and passes between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris before it reaches its termination (fig. 695). The nerve to the popliteus descends on the pos- terior surface of the muscle, turns around its lower border, and is distributed on its anterior aspect. In addition to supplying the popliteus, it gives articular branches to the knee and superior tibio-fibular joints, a branch to the tibia which accompanies the medullary artery, and a long, slender twig which gives filaments to the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and it descends as the interosseous crural nerve (Hal- bertsma) on the interosseous membrane to the inferior tibio-fibular joint. It also gives branches to the interosseous membrane and to the periosteum of the lower part of the tibia. In the upper part of the leg the tibial nerve is placed deeply, under cover of the gastrocnemius and soleus, but in the lower half it is merely covered by the deep fascia, which is thickened between the internal malleolus and the calcaneus to form the laciniate (internal annular) ligament, and the termination of the nerve lies either under cover of this ligament, or under the origin of the abductor hallucis. The an- terior relations of the nerve are, from above downwards, the tibialis posterior, the flexor digitorum longus, the lower part of the tibia, and the posterior ligament of the ankle-joint. For a short distance after its commencement the nerve lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery; then it crosses behind the artery and runs downwards along its outer side. The branches of the lower part of the tibial nerve (below the popliteal space) are likewise muscular, cutaneous, and articular. They are supplied to the deep muscles of the back of the leg, to the fibula, to the skin of the heel and foot, and to the ankle-joint. Several of the terminal branches are important enough to receive special names and special treatment. The muscular branches pass from the upper part of the nerve to the tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, soleus, and flexor hallucis longus. The fibular branch arises with the nerve to the flexor hallucis longus, and accompanies the per- oneal artery. It supplies the periosteum and gives filaments which accompany the medullary artery. The articular branches arise from the lower part of the nerve, immediately above its terminal branches, and they pass into the joint through the internal lateral ligament. The medial calcaneal (calcaneo-plantar cutaneous) nerves arise from the trunk of the tibial nerve in the lower part of the leg. They pierce the laciniate (internal annular) ligament, and are distributed to the integument of the inner side and under surface of the heel and the adjoining part of the sole of the foot (fig. 695). The medial plantar nerve is the larger of the two terminal branches of the tibial nerve. It commences under cover of the lower border of the laciniate (internal annular) ligament, or under the posterior border of the abductor hallucis, and passes forwards, accompanied by the small internal plantar artery, in the inter- muscular septum between the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis. At the middle of the length of the foot it becomes superficial, in the interval be- tween the two muscles, and divides into four sets of terminal branches (fig. 696):— (a) Branches.—Muscular branches pass from the trunk of the nerve to the ab- ductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis.