S16 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM ous openings for the passage of blood-vessels. It is divided by a shallow median groove and is marked off from the inner surface of each peduncle by the oculomotor sulcus, out of which emerge the roots of the oculomotor nerves. The ventral sur- face of each peduncle is rounded and has a somewhat twisted appearance, indicating that its fibres curve from above medianwards and inwards. Sometimes two small, more or less transverse bands of fibres may be noted crossing the peduncle—an in- ferior, the tcenia pontis, and a superior, the transverse peduncular tract. The inferior represents detached fibres of the pons; the superior appears to be derived from the quadrigeminate bodies. Since it is well developed in the cat, dog, sheep, and rab- bit, but is absent or little marked in the mole, it is supposed to be concerned with the optic apparatus. Internal structure.—Transverse sections of the mesencephalon throughout are composed of—(1) a dorsal part, consisting of the lamina quadrigemina or the grey substance of the corpora quadrigemina, with the strata and bundles of nerve-fibres connected with them, and the abundant central grey substance surrounding the aqueduct; (2) a tegmental part, consisting of the upward continuation of the reticular formation of the medulla oblongata and that of the dorsal (tegmental) portion of the pons region, to which are added the superior cerebellar peduncles and the red nuclei Fig. 608.—Diagram of Lateral View of Mesencephalon and Adjacent Structures. (After Gegenbaur, modified.) of the tegmentum in which these peduncles terminate; (3) a paired ventral part, the cerebral peduncles, each of which consists of a thick, pigmented stratum of grey substance, the substantia nigra, spread upon the large, superficial, and somewhat crescentic tract of white substance known as the basis of the peduncle. The cerebral peduncles correspond to the longitudinal or pyramidal fasciculi of the pons and medulla. Likewise the lemniscus and the medial longitudinal fasciculus of the medulla and pons continue through all sections of the mesencephalon. The central grey substance is a continuation of the central grey substance of the spinal cord and the similar stratum of the medulla and that which immediately under- lies the ependyma of the fourth ventricle. As in the spinal cord and medulla, it is largely composed of gelatinous substance. It is much more abundant in the mesen- cephalon, and in sections appears as a circumscribed area comparatively void of nerve-fibres. The nucleus of the mesencephalic root of the trigeminus may likewise be traced throughout the mesencephalon. It consists of a few small bundles of fibres surround- ing a thin strand of nerve-cells of the motor type which give origin to its fibres. It courses downwards close to the lateral margin of the central grey substance, and is quite small at its beginning in the extreme superior part of the mesencephalon, but as it descends towards the exit of its fibres from the pons as a part of the motor root