THE NOSE 1071 mouth, where its termination is marked by the incisive papilla. The incisive duct indicates the position of the passage which originally connected the mouth and nose. The lateral wall (fig. 769) presents just within the nares a slight depression, the vestibule. This corresponds to the expansion of the ala, and is marked off from the rest of the nasal fossa by a distinct ridge, the limen nasi. The area immediately superior and dorsal to the vestibule is separated into two shallow depressions by an oblique ridge, the agger nasi, the ventral depression being the sulcus olfactorius which leads to the olfactory region in the superior and dorsal part of the nasal fossa, while the area inferior and dorsal to the agger is the atrium of the middle meatus. This is bounded dorsally by the ventral vertical border of the middle nasal concha (middle turbinate bone), beneath which it is continued into the middle meatus. On the dorsal part of the lateral wall are the superior, middle, and inferior conchse (turbinate bones), covering respectively the superior, middle, and inferior meat- uses. The superior concha is occasionally divided into two or three parts, and pos- terior and superior to it is a depression, the spheno-ethmoidal recess, which leads to the opening into the sphenoidal sinus. The superior meatus is the smallest of the three. It has but a single opening, Fig. 769.—The Left Wall of the Nasal Cavity showing the Conch.e and Meatuses, with the Openings in Dotted Outline. Frontal sinus INFERIOR CONCHA ORIFICE OF THE MAXILLARY ORIFICE OF INFUNDIBULUM SINUS which leads into the posterior ethmoidal cells. The spheno-palatine foramen, which communicates with the meatus in the dry skull, is entirely covered up by mucous membrane. The middle meatus is a much larger passage. Upon its lateral wall is a rounded eminence, the ethmoidal bulla, caused by the middle ethmoidal cells and perforated by the opening into them. Ventral and inferior to this is a deep curved groove, the hiatus semilunaris, which is continued superiorly by the infundibulum into the frontal sinus. It also receives the openings of the anterior ethmoidal cells and the maxillary sinus (antrum). Posterior to the semilunar hiatus an accessory opening into the maxillary sinus is often seen. The inferior meatus is the longest of the three. Ventrally, just inferior to the attachment of the inferior concha (turbinate bone), is the slit-like opening of the naso-lachrymal (nasal) duct, around the opening of which the mucous membrane forms a valve, the plica lachrymalis (Hasneri). The common meatus is the space between the nasal concha* and the septum, and extends from the floor to the roof of the nasal fossa. The dorsal portion of the