840 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM which is the motor area for the muscles of the arm, and the development of this area in man probably aids in producing it. (2) The inferior genu occurs below, is concave backwards, and is probably in part a result of the superior genu—the turn of the sulcus in resuming its general course. The upper part of this genu also accommodates a smaller (inferior) portion of the arm area. The central sulcus (Rolandi) appears in the pallium of the foetus during the latter part of the fifth month. It then consists of a lower longer and an upper shorter part. Usually these two parts become continuous before birth; very rarely do they remain separate in the adult. The point of their fusion is sometimes manifest within the depth of the sulcus. If the lips of the sulcus be pressed widely apart at about the region of the junction of its middle and upper third, it will be found that the opposing walls give off a number of protuberances or lateral gyri, which dovetail into each other when the sulcus is closed. Sometimes two of these lateral gyri appear fused across the floor of the sulcus, so as to form a bridge of grey substance known as the deep annectant gyrus. This interruption of the continuity of the sulcus, when present, represents the point at which the two parts of the sulcus in the fcetal brain joined each other without the con- tinuity becoming wholly completed in the adult. The genua of the adult sulcus may often be due to the precedent parts not being in line at the time of their fusion. The parietal lobe.—The parietal lobe occupies a somewhat smaller area of the human telencephalon than either the frontal or the temporal lobe. It has a convex and a mesial surface, but no basal surface. It is separated from the frontal lobe in front by the central sulcus; from the occipital lobe behind by the parieto-occipital fissure (fig. 626), and by an arbitrary line drawn transversely around the convex sur- face of the hemisphere from the superior extremity of this fissure to the infero-lateral border; and from the temporal lobe below by the horizontal part of the posterior ramus of the lateral fissure, and by a line drawn in continuity with this horizontal part to intersect the transverse line drawn to limit it from the occipital lobe. The preoccipital notch.—In situ, the infero-lateral border of the posterior portion of the hemisphere rests over a small portion of the parieto-mastoid suture of the cranium, and upon this structure occurs a fold or vertical thickening of the dura mater, which slightly indents the infero-lateral border. This indentation occurs about 4 cm. from the occipital pole, and is con- sidered one of the points of limitation of the parietal from the occipital lobe, and is therefore called the preoccipital notch. While during late foetal life and early childhood it is well marked, it is usually very slight in the adult brain, and is, as a rule, evident only in brains hardened in situ. When it is visible, the arbitrary transverse line from the superior extremity of the parieto-occipital fissure, used as a boundary between the convex surfaces of the parietal and occipital lobes, should be so drawn as to bisect the preoccipital notch. The convex surface of the parietal lobe comprises the following gyri and sulci:— The posterior central gyrus (ascending parietal) extends obliquely across the hemisphere parallel with the anterior central gyrus of the frontal lobe, from which it is separated by the central sulcus. Its inferior end is bounded by the posterior ramus of the lateral fissure, and constitutes the posterior or parietal portion of the fronto- parietal operculum. Its upper end takes part in the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, and is bounded posteriorly by the tip end of the marginal portion of the sulcus cinguli. Its postero-lateral boundary consists of the two more or less vertical rami or factors of the interparietal sulcus, viz., the inferior and superior portions of the postcentral sulcus, either continuous with each other or detached. The interparietal sulcus (intraparietal) is often the most complicated sulcus of the pallium. Its development usually begins as four different furrows in the fcetal brain, and the difficulty with which it is traced in the adult brain depends upon the extent to which these four factors become continuous in the later development. When continuity of the furrows is well established, the entire sulcus may be described as consisting of a convex horizontal ramus, which gives off a few short collateral twigs and whose either end is in the form of an irregular, reclining —T. The transverse bar of the anterior end arises from two of the four factors of the entire sulcus:—(1) an inferior furrow, the inferior postcentral sulcus, commencing above the posterior ramus of the lateral fissure and ascending as the boundary of the lower half of the pos- terior central gyrus, and (2) a superior furrow, the superior postcentral sulcus, lying behind the upper portion of the posterior central gyrus, and which, upon approaching the supero-mesial border, may turn backward a short distance parallel with the horizontal ramus, as in fig. 622. When confluent, these two factors form together a continuous postcentral sulcus. In the adult the inferior of the two is always con- tinuous with the horizontal ramus; when confluent, the two figures join so as to form the transverse bar of the anterior end of this ramus. The horizontal ramus, which