845 THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES the greater mass of them pass obliquely outwards over it and gradually disappear in the antero-lateral portion of the anterior perforated substance, in which some of them terminate, but through which most of them pass to curve into the anterior end of the hippocampal gyrus and terminate there, chiefly in the uncus. In most of the mam- mals the lateral stria is so strong that it appears as a superficial white band passing directly into the uncus. (4) The parolfactory area (Broca's area) involves the mesial extension of the olfactory trigone, and is concerned with the medial olfactory stria. On the basal sur- face of the hemisphere this area involves the posterior extremity of the gyrus rectus— a portion of which is sometimes separated from the remainder of the gyrus by a ventral prolongation of the anterior parolfactory sulcus of the medial surface (see figs. 626 and 624). This prolongation when present has been called the fissura serotina. On the medial surface the parolfactory area appears as a definite gyrus bearing its name. In front this is separated from the superior frontal gyrus by the anterior parolfactory sulcus, and from the subcallosal gyrus behind by the deeper posterior parolfactory sulcus (fig. 626). It is continuous above into the gyrus cinguli of the limbic lobe, the posterior part of the rhinencephalon. A large portion of the fibres of the medial stria are lost in the parolfactory area, and are known to terminate about the cells there. This stria or root of the olfactory tract forms a slight ridge on the ventral surface of the area, which is frequently prominent enough to retain the name medial olfactory gyrus applied to it in the foetal brain (fig. 627). (5) The subcallosal gyrus (peduncle of the corpus callosum) is the narrow fold of the pallium which lies between the posterior parolfactory sulcus and the rostral lamina and the ventral continuation of the latter into the lamina terminalis. It begins above, in part fused to the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and in part continu- ous with the gyrus cinguli, and below it goes over into the anterior perforated sub- stance. Some fibres of the medial olfactory stria disappear in the substance of this gyrus. (6) The anterior perforated substance must be considered with the rhinenceph- alon, but, like the limen insula?, it can only be considered as belonging in part to this division of the brain. It comprises the basal region between the optic chiasma and tract and the olfactory trigone. Usually the posterior parolfactory sulcus (fissura prima of the embryo) is sufficiently evident to more or less distinctly separate it from the latter. A few fibres from the middle stria are known to disappear within its depths, and, as mentioned above, many fibres from the lateral stria also pass into it. The intermediate olfactory stria is always much the weakest of the three stride, and in many specimens is apparently absent. The fibres of this stria run almost straight backwards and plunge directly into the anterior perforated substance, where some of them are known to terminate, while others continue into the uncus. On embryological grounds, the subcallosal gyrus and the anterior perforated substance are classed as the posterior division of the 'olfactory lobe' or anterior part of the rhinencephalon. The olfactory bulb and tract arise as a hollow outgrowth from the lower and anterior part of the anterior of the three primary vesicles. It is a tubular structure at first, and in many of the mammals the cavity maintains throughout life as the olfactory ventricle. In man the cavity becomes occluded and the ependyma and gelatinous substance which surround it become the grey core of the bulb and tract of the adult. The grey substance persists and developes chiefly in the bulb, and in fact produces it as such. It is much thicker on the ventral surface of the bulb than on the dorsal surface, and in section shows definite layers. From within outwards, the principal of these layers are—(1) the layer of large cells whose shape suggests their name, mitral cells; (2) large dendrites of the mitral cells project towards the surface and there break up into numerous telodendria which copiously interdigitate with like telodendria of the entering fibres of the olfactory nerve, thus forming rounded, much tangled glomeruli and the layer containing these, the glomerular layer; (3) the superficial layer, or olfactory layer, consists of the fibres of the olfactory nerve which form a dense interlacement with each other on the ventral surface of the bulb before they pass into its interior. The dorsal surface of the bulb becomes formed almost wholly of the fibres which arise as axones of the mitral cells and pass backwards to form the olfactory tract, and thence to their localities of termina- tion, chiefly by way of the three stria?. Along the dorsal aspect of the olfactory tract the gela- tinous substance of the core may show through as a grey ridge. The so-called limbic lobe (a name introduced by Broca in 1878) consists of the structures which may be considered as comprising the posterior portion of the rhinencephalon. It takes part in both the medial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere. Seen from the medial surface, it forms an irregular elliptical figure