946 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (fig. 691). At the lower part of the popliteal region it perforates the deep fascia, and it terminates in branches which are distributed to the skin of the calf. Branches.—1. Perineal branches are distributed in part to the skin of the upper and inner sides of the thigh on its dorsal aspect. One of the branches, known as the long pudendal nerve, runs forwards and inwards in front of the tuberosity of the ischium to the lateral margin of the anterior part of the perineum, where it perforates the fascia lata and Colles' fascia and enters the anterior compartment of the perineum. It communicates in the perineum with the superficial perineal nerves, and its terminal filaments are distributed to the skin of the scrotum in the male, and to the labium ma jus in the female. 2. Inferior clunial (gluteal) branches, two or three in number, are given off beneath the gluteus maximus; they turn around the lower border of this muscle and are distributed to the skin of the lower and outer part of the gluteal region. 3. Femoral cutaneous branches are given off as the nerve descends through the thigh. They perforate the deep fascia and are distributed to the skin of the back of the thigh, especially on the inner side. In case of the separate origin of the tibial (internal popliteal) and common peroneal (external popliteal) nerves, the posterior femoral cutaneous also arises from the sacral plexus in two parts. The ventral portion descends with the tibial nerve below the piriformis and gives off the perineal branches and inner femoral branches, while the dorsal portion passses through that muscle with the common peroneal nerve, and furnishes the gluteal and outer femoral branches. (b) The inferior medial clunial (perforating cutaneous) nerve arises from the posterior portion of the second and third sacral nerves (figs. 692, 693). It perforates the lower part of the sacro-tuberous (great sciatic) ligament, turns around the in- ferior border of the gluteus maximus, and is distributed to the skin over the lower and inner part of that muscle. It is sometimes associated at its origin with the pudic nerve. It is not always present. Its place is sometimes taken by a small nerve (the greater coccygeal perforating of Eisler), arising from the third and fourth or fourth and fifth sacral nerves, and sometimes it is represented by a branch of the pos- terior femoral cutaneous (small sciatic). Muscular Branches.—(a) One or two small nerves to the piriformis pass from the posterior divisions of the first and second sacral nerves. (6) The superior gluteal nerve receives fibres from the posterior branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar, and the first sacral nerves. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen, above the upper border of the piriformis, and it is accom- panied by the superior gluteal artery. As soon as it enters the buttock it divides into two branches, an upper and a lower. 1. The upper branch is the smaller. It accompanies the upper branch of the deep division of the superior gluteal artery below the middle curved line of the ilium, and it ends entirely in the gluteus medius (fig. 694). 2. The lower branch, larger than the upper, passes forwards across the middle of the gluteus minimus, with the lower branch of the gluteal artery; it supplies the gluteus medius and the gluteus minimus, and it ends in the inner and posterior part of the tensor fasciae latse. (c) The inferior gluteal nerve is formed by fibres from the posterior branches of the fifth lumbar, and the first and second sacral nerves. It passes through the great sciatic foramen, below the piriformis, and divides into a number of branches which end in the gluteus maximus (figs. 692, 693). (d) The nerve to the quadratus femoris is formed by the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It lies on the front of the plexus and issues from the pelvis below the piriformis. In the buttock it lies at first between the sciatic nerve and the back of the ischium, and, at a lower level, between the obturator internus with the gemelli and the ischium. It terminates in the anterior surface of the quadratus femoris, having previously given off a branch to the hip-joint and another to the inferior gemellus. (e) The nerve to the obturator internus is formed by the anterior branches of the fifth lumbar, and the first and second thoracic nerves (figs. 692 and 693). It leaves the pelvis below the piriformis, and crosses the spine of the ischium on the outer side of the internal pudic artery and on the inner side of the sciatic nerve. It gives a branch to the gemellus superior, and turns forwards through the small sciatic fora- men into the perineum, where it terminates in the inner surface of the obturator internus.