EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 1029 the lens measures nine millimetres across, and about four millimetres between its poles. On each surface a series of fine, sinuous, grey lines can be seen radiating from the pole towards the equator, called respectively the anterior and posterior stellate figures. The lines observable on the posterior are always so placed as to be intermediate with those on the anterior surface, so that on viewing them through the lens they occupy a position corresponding to the intervals between the lines on the anterior surface. The lens-capsule is comparatively brittle, and can be readily cut through when scraped with a sharp-pointed instrument; on doing so the divided edges curl outwards, away from the lenticular substance. When removed from its capsule, the outer portion of the lens is found to be soft and glutinous, but its substance gets progressively firmer as we approach the centre. This harder central part is known as the nucleus, and the surrounding softer matter as cortex. The cortical part shows a tendency to peel off in successive layers. It consists of Fig. 728.—Semi-diagrammatic Horizontal Section through Eyeball and Optic Nerve. (After Elfinger. Reduced and altered.) long fibres, the ends of which meet in front and behind at the anterior and posterior stellate figures. Histologically the capsule is not in immediate contact with the cortex over the front surface of the lens, a single layer of cells intervening, called the subcapsular epithelium. The zonula ciliaris or suspensory ligament of the lens is formed by a thick- ening of the anterior part of a membrane enclosing the vitreous, strengthened by numerous fibres derived from the folds of the ciliary region. Its chief attachments to the lens-capsule are a little in front of and behind the equator, and the space included between the most anterior and most posterior divisions of the ligament is termed the zonular space (canal of Petit). This space is bridged across by fine intermediate suspensory fibres, and is occupied by fluid. The vitreous humour is a transparent, colourless, jelly-like mass, enclosed in a delicate, clear, structureless membrane, called the hyaloid membrane. This latter is closely applied to the back of the posterior lens-capsule and of the suspensory ligament, and to the inner surface of the pars ciliaris retinae, retina proper, and optic papilla. Although possessing some degree of firmness, the vitreous humour contains quite 98 per cent, of water, and has no definite structure. Membranes