IT! L l.( I vi n », University of Leeds. EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 1031 plying especially the sphincter muscle. The corneal nerves form an annular plexus near the limbus, from which a few twigs proceed to the sclerotic and conjunctiva, while most of the offsets enter and run radially in the corneal stroma, branching and anastomosing so as to form a plexus. The nerves entering the cornea are about sixty in number, each containing from two to twelve non-medullated nerve- fibres (page 972). Blood-vessels of the eyeball.—The ocular tissues receive blood from two sets of vessels, viz., the retinal and the ciliary arteries. 1. The arteria centralis retinae either comes direct from the ophthalmic artery, or from one of its branches near the apex of the orbit. Entering the optic nerve twenty millimetres or less behind the globe, it runs forwards in its axis to the end of the nerve-trunk, and then divides into branches which run in the inner layers of the retina, and divide dichotomously as they radiate towards the equator. The smaller branches lie more deeply in the retina, but none penetrate into the nerve-epithelium, so that the fovea centralis is non-vascular. In the retina, the branches of the cen- tral artery do not communicate with any other arteries, but while still in the optic nerve fine communications take place between this artery and neighbouring vessels. Thus (a) minute twigs from it, which help to nourish the axial part of the nerve, communicate with those running in the septa derived from the pial sheath. Again, Fig. 730.—Surface of Chorioid and Iris exposed by removal of Sclerotic and Cornea, showing Distribution of Blood-vessels and Nerves. (Twice natural size. After Zinn.) SURFACE OF CHORIOID IN CILIARY REGION Vence vorticosce Long posterior ciliary artery FLAP OF SCLEROTIC, REFLECTED as the nerve passes through the sclerotic, it is surrounded by a vascular ring (circle of Haller), formed of fine branches derived from the short posterior ciliary arteries; fine twigs passing inwards from this ring to the optic nerve join the vessels of the pial sheath, and (b) an indirect communication is thus brought about between the retinal and ciliary vessels. Finally, as the nerve passes through the chorioid, there is (c) a direct connection between these two sets of vessels, the capillary network of the optic nerve being here continuous with the chorio-capillaris. Not infrequently, a branch from a short posterior ciliary artery pierces the optic papilla, and then courses over the adjoining retina (a cilio-retinal artery), supplying the latter in part in place of the central artery. The vena centralis retinae returns the blood of the corresponding artery. 2. The ciliary system of blood-vessels (pages 536, 537, and 662).—There are three sets of arteries belonging to this system, all derived directly or indirectly from the ophthalmic artery. (1) Short posterior ciliary arteries, twelve to twenty in number, pierce the sclerotic round the optic nerve entrance, and are distributed in the chorioid. Before entering the eyeball, small twigs are given off to the adjoining sclerotic and to the dural sheath of the optic nerve. (2) Two long posterior ciliary arteries, piercing the sclerotic further from the