981 THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE upper part of the jugular foramen. No branches arise from it. It is sometimes con- tinuous with the petrous ganglion or it may be absent. The inferior or petrous ganglion, or ganglion of Andersch, is an ovoid grey body which lies in the lower part of the jugular foramen, and appears to include all the fibres of the nerve. Communications.—(1) The petrous ganglion is connected with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic by a fine filament. (2) It also has a filament of communication with the auricular branch of the vagus which varies inversely in size with the latter nerve and sometimes entirely replaces it. This filament may be absent. (3) An inconstant communication with the ganglion of the root of the vagus. (4) A short distance below the petrous ganglion the trunk of the nerve is connected by a twig with that branch of the seventh nerve which supplies the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Branches.—(a) From the petrous ganglion : The tympanic branch, or nerve of Jacobson, arises from the petrous ganglion and passes through a foramen, which lies in the ridge of bone between the carotid canal and the jugular fossa, into the tympanic canaliculus (Jacobson's canal), where it is surrounded by a small, fusiform mass of vascular tissue, the intumescentia tympanica. After traversing the tympanic canaliculus it enters the tympanum at the junction of its lower and inner walls, and, ascending on the inner wall, breaks up into a number of branches which take part in the formation of the tympanic plexus on the surface of the promontory. The continuation of the nerve emerges from this plexus as the small superficial petrosal nerve, which runs through a small canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, beneath the canal for the tensor tympani, and appears in the middle fossa of the cra- nium through a foramen which lies in front of the hiatus Fallopii. From this foramen it runs forwards and passes through the foramen ovale, the canaliculus innominatus, or the spheno-petrosal suture, and enters the zygomatic fossa, where it joins the otic ganglion. While it is in the canal in the temporal bone the small superficial petrosal nerve is joined by a branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. (6) Branches from the plexus :—(1) The tubal branch, a delicate branch, which runs forwards to the mucous membrane of the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube) and sends filaments backwards to the region of the fenestra vestibuli (ovalis) and the fenestra cochlea? (rotunda). (2) The superior and inferior carotico-tympanic (carotid) branches pass medianwards to the internal carotid plexus. (c) From the trunk of the nerve :—(1) Pharyngeal branches, which may be two or three in number, arise from the nerve a short distance below the petrous ganglion. The principal and most constant of these passes on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and after a very short independent course joins with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and with branches of the superior cervical gan- glion to form the pharyngeal plexus (fig. 707). (2) A muscular branch is distributed to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. This branch receives a communication from the facial nerve (fig. 707). (3) The tonsillar branches are a number of small twigs which arise under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle; they proceed to the tonsil, around which they form a plexus, the circulus tonsillaris. From this plexus fine twigs proceed to the pillars of the fauces and to the soft palate. (4) The lingual branches arise from the termination of the nerve and supply the mucous membrane of the posterior half of the dorsum of the tongue, where, chiefly as taste-fibres, they are distributed to the vallate papilla?. Some small twigs pass backwards to the follicular glands of the tongue, and to the anterior surface of the epiglottis. Other twigs are distributed around the foramen ca?cum, where they communicate with the corresponding twigs of the opposite side. The Sensory Fibres.—The sensory fibres of the ninth nerve spring from the superior and petrous ganglia and pass peripherally and centrally. The peripheral fibres of the ganglion cells are those which are distributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue and pharynx, and the central fibres pass inwards to the medulla. In the medulla they pass dorsalwards and medianwards through the reticular formation and, bifurcating into ascending and descending branches, they end in the nucleus of termination of the ninth nerve, that is, in the upper part of the nucleus alse cinerese and in the nucleus of the tractus solitarius.