THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 833 the bulk of the animal, and apparently with its mental capabilities. This is especially true of the cortex, for in the larger brains, and that of man especially, by far the greater amount of the cerebral grey substance lies on the surface. Therefore, in either the growth or evolution of a small animal into a large one the amount of cerebral grey substance is increased, and in this increase the surface area of the brain is necessarily enlarged. It is a geometrical law that in the growth of a body the surface increases with the square, while the volume increases with the cube of the diameter. The cerebral hemisphere is a mass the increase of whose volume does not keep the required pace with the increase of its surface area or cortical layer. The white sub- stance which forms the pallium arises in large measure as outgrowths from the cells of the cortical layer, and thus it can only increase in a certain proportion to the grey substance. Therefore, the surface mantle of grey substance of a hemisphere, enlarged in accordance with an increased bulk of body, is greater than is necessary to cover the surface of the geometrical figure formed by the combined white and grey substance. Consequently, in order to possess the preponderant amount of grey substance, the surface of the hemisphere is of necessity thrown into folds. It follows also that the thinner the cortical layer in proportion to the volume of the hemisphere, the greater and more folded will be the surface area. In accordance with this theory small animals have smooth or relatively smooth hemispheres, and that independently of their position in the animal scale or the amount of their intelligence, while large animals have con- voluted brains. The sulci in general begin to appear with the fifth month of fetal life, the larger of them, the fissures, appearing first and in a more or less regular order. Up to the fifth month the enceph- alon, due to its rapid growth, closely occupies the cranial capsule. During the fifth month the cranium begins to grow more rapidly than the encephalon, and a space is formed between the cerebrum and the inner surface of the cranium. This space allows further expansion of the pallium, and at the time it is relatively greatest (during the sixth month) the form and direction of the principal gyri and sulci begin to be indicated. As growth proceeds the unrestricted expansion of the pallium results in the gyri again approaching the wall of the cranium, and during the eighth month of fetal life they again come in contact with it. Finally, the later relative growth of the cranium results in the space found between it and the cortex in the adult. It is obvious that the relation of the cranium may be a factor in the causation of the gyri, for the increase of surface area necessitated by the increased amount of cortical grey substance might be limited by a cranial cavity of small size and then the increase of surface could only be obtained by folding. It is probable that the second contact of the cortex with the cranium (during the eighth month) may at least cause a deepening and accentuation of the gyri already begun. Evi- dently the form of the cranium modifies the gyri, and to a certain extent probably determines their direction, for in long, dolichocephalic crania the antero-posterior gyri are most accentuated, and in the wide, brachycephalic crania the transverse gyri are most marked. At birth all the main fissures and sulci are present, but some of the smaller sulci appear later. In the growing pallium both the bottoms of the sulci as well as the summits of the gyri move away from the geo- metrical center of the hemisphere, the summits more rapidly, and hence the sulci or fissures first formed grow gradually deeper as long as growth continues. The mechanical factors in the growth processes which result in the more or less regular arrangement of the gyri of the hemispheres of a given group of animals have not been satisfactorily determined. It has been suggested that the differences in arrangement of the gyri in different groups of animals may be in part dependent upon the functional importance of the various regions—the amount of grey substance varying with the functional importance, and the con- sequent local increases being accompanied by resultant local foldings. This idea is supported by the fact that while the somsesthetic (sensory-motor) area of the cortex varies with the bulk of the body, the frontal gyri, so much developed in man and which are one of the chief regions of the associational phenomena, are relatively independent of and do not vary with the weight of either the body or the brain. Surface Area.—The total surface area of the adult human telencephalon is about 2300 sq. cm. Of this area almost exactly one-third is contained on the outer or exposed surfaces of the gyri, while the other two-thirds is found in the walls of the sulci and fissures. Lobes of the Telencephalon and the Fissures and Sulci The folded pallium of each hemisphere is arbitrarily divided into lobes, partly by the use of certain of the main fissures and sulci as boundaries and partly by the use of imaginary lines. These divisions are six in number, themselves subdivided into their component gyri:— (1) Temporal lobe. (2) Central lobe or Insula (Island of Reil). (3) Frontal lobe. (4) Parietal lobe. (5) Occipital lobe. (6) Olfactory brain or rhinencephalon (including the structures often grouped under the two names olfactory lobe and limbic lobe). This division of the cortex of the hemisphere is largely a merely topographical one. With the exception of the temporal lobe and the rhinencephalon, it has little of either morphological or functional value. The occipital lobe contains the rec- ognised visual area of the cortex, but this such, does not involve all of the 53