THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 902 branches are similar in function to the descending branches, save that they become associated with the grey substance of segments of the cord above rather than below the level of their entrance. The long branches convey impulses destined for the structures of the brain, and pass upwards in the fasciculus gracilis or fasciculus cuneatus of the cord, and terminate in the nuclei of these fasciculi in the medulla oblongata (figs. 646 and 648). Aberrant spinal ganglia.—In serial sections on either side of the spinal ganglion of a nerve there may often be found outlying cells either scattered or in groups of sufficient size to be called small ganglia. Such are more often found in the dorsal roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves. These cells are nothing more than spinal ganglion-cells displaced in the growth processes, and have the same nature and function as those in the ganglion. In some animals occasional cells very rarely have been found in the outer portion of the ventral root. These probably represent afferent fibres which enter the cord by way of the ventral root. Like- wise, especially in the birds and amphibia, it has been shown that occasional efferent fibres may pass from the grey substance of the cord to the periphery by way of the dorsal instead of the ventral root. Relative size of the roots.—The sensory or dorsal root is larger than the ventral root, indicating that the sensory area to be supplied is greater and perhaps more abundantly innervated than the area requiring motor fibres. It has been shown that in the entire thirty-one spinal nerves of one side of the body of man the dorsal root fibres number 653,627, while all the corresponding ventral roots contain but 233,- 700 fibres, a ratio of 3.2 : 1. (Ingbert.) In the increase in the size of the nerves for the Fig. 671.—Dorsal and Ventral Views of Spinal Cord showing Manner of Attachment of Dorsal and Ventral Roots. supply of the limbs the gain of dorsal root or sensory fibres is far greater than the gain of ventral root-fibres. The first cervical or the sub-occipital nerve is always an ex- ception to the rule; its dorsal root is always smaller than its ventral, and in rare cases may be rudimentary or entirely absent. The spinal ganglion and, therefore, the sen- sory root of the coccygeal nerve, is also quite frequently absent. The dorsal and ventral root-fibres of each spinal nerve proceed outwards from their segment of attachment to the spinal cord, pierce the pia mater and arachnoid, collect to form their respective roots, and pass into their respective intervertebral foramina. On the immediate peripheral side of the spinal ganglion the two roots blend, giving origin to the thus mixed nerve-trunk. As the trunk, the sensory and motor fibres make their exit from the vertebral canal through the intervertebral foramen. Relation to the meninges.—The root filaments of each nerve receive connective- tissue support from the pia mater and arachnoid in passing through them. In the arachnoid cavity they become assembled into their respective nerve-roots, and the roots, closely approaching each other, pass into the dura mater, from which they re- ceive separate sheaths at first, but at the peripheral side of the ganglion these sheaths blend into one, which, with the subsequent blending of the roots, becomes the sheath or epineurium of the nerve trunk. By means of the sheaths derived from the ANTERO-LA TERAL SULCUS (line of ventral roots) S ANTERIOR MEDIAN FISSURE POSTERIOR MEDIAN SULCUS / POSTERIOR IN- , i> TERMEIHATE SULCUS