THE TRIGEMINAL NERVE 969 tion. The trunk is situated between the pterygoideus externus externally and the otic ganglion and the tensor palati internally. In front of it is the posterior border of the pterygoideus internus, and behind it, the middle meningeal artery. Two branches arise from the trunk of the nerve before its division, namely, the spinous (recurrent) nerve and the nerve to the pterygoideus internus. The spinous (recurrent) nerve, after receiving a filament from the otic ganglion, enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum, accompanying the middle meningeal artery, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch communicates with the meningeal branch of the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, furnishes filaments to the dura mater, and ends in the osseous sub- stance of the great wing of the sphenoid. The posterior branch traverses the petro- squamous suture and ends in the lining membrane of the mastoid cells. The nerve to the internal pterygoid passes under cover of a dense layer of fascia derived from an expansion of the ligamentum pterygo-spinosum, and enters the deep surface of the muscle. Near its commencement this nerve furnishes a motor root to the otic ganglion, and small branches to the tensor tympani and tensor palati. The Anterior Portion of the mandibular nerve is smaller than the posterior and is chiefly motor; it supplies the muscles of mastication, the temporalis, masseter, and pterygoideus externus, and gives off a sensory branch, the buccinator (long buccal) nerve. The latter is accompanied, in the first part of its course, by a small strand of motor fibres which leaves it to end in the anterior part of the temporal muscle. The deep temporal nerves, usually two in number, posterior and anterior, pass between the bone and the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle, and turn upwards around the infra-temporal crest of the sphenoid bone to end in the deep sur- face of the temporalis (fig. 703). The posterior of the two often arises in common with the masseteric nerve. The anterior is frequently associated with the buccinator (long buccal) nerve till the latter has passed between the two heads of the pterygoideus externus. There is frequently a third branch, the medius, which passes outwards above the pterygoideus externus, and turns upwards close to the bone to enter the deep surface of that muscle. The masseteric nerve, which frequently arises in common with the posterior deep temporal nerves, passes between the bone and the pterygoideus externus, and accompanies the masseteric artery through the notch of the mandible to be dis- tributed to the masseter (fig. 703). It is easily traced through the deeper fibres nearly to the anterior border of the masseter. As it emerges above the pterygoideus externus it gives off a twig to the temporo-mandibular articulation. The nerve to the external pterygoid, after a course of about 3 mm. (an eighth of an inch), divides into twigs which enter the deep surface of the two heads of the muscle. It is usually adherent at its origin to the long buccal nerve. The buccinator (long buccal) nerve, entirely sensory, passes between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle and runs downwards and forwards under cover of or through the anterior fibres of the temporalis to the cheek (fig. 703). As it passes forwards it emerges from under cover of the anterior border of the masseter and lies on the superficial surface of the buccinator, where it communicates with the buccal branches of the seventh nerve and gives off filaments to supply the superjacent skin; finally it pierces the buccinator and supplies the mucous membrane on its inner surface as far forwards as the angle of the mouth. The fibres of the anterior deep temporal nerve are frequently associated with the buccinator until the latter has passed between the heads of the external pterygoid; then the anterior deep tempo- ral nerve separates from the buccinator and passes upwards on the outer surface of the upper head of the external pterygoid. The Posterior Portion of the mandibular nerve divides into three large branches. Two of these, the lingual and the auriculo-temporal nerves, are exclusively sensory; the third, the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve, contains a strand of motor fibres, the mylo-hyoid nerve. The Lingual Nerve is the most anterior branch of the mandibular nerve (figs. 703, 707). It lies in front and to the inner side of the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve and descends at first on the inner side of the pterygoideus externus, then between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the mandible to the posterior part of the mylo- hyoid ridge, where it passes off the anterior border of the pterygoideus internus; at this point it is situated a short distance behind the last molar tooth and is covered in front by the mucous membrane of the posterior part of the mouth. After leaving