THE ASSOCIATION FIBRES OF THE HEMISPHERES 867 company with the grey masses with which they are concerned. They may be summarised as follows:— (1) Those of short course, the nbrae propriae, which associate contiguous gyri with each other. These loop around the bottoms of the sulci, continually receiving and losing fibres in the cortex they connect. The stripes of Baillarger within the cortical layer might be included among the short association bundles. (2) The cingulum (girdle) lies in the gyrus cinguli and is shaped correspond- ingly. It extends from the anterior perforated substance and the subcallosal gyrus around the genu of the corpus callosum, then, under cover of the gyrus cinguli and around the splenium, and thence downwards and forwards in the hippocampal gyrus to the uncus. It is chiefly an aggregation of fibres of short course—fibres which associate neighbouring portions of the cortical substance beneath which they course, and which, by continually overlapping each other, form the bundle. (3) The uncinate fasciculus is a hook-shaped bundle which connects the uncus and anterior portion of the temporal lobe with the basal portion of the frontal lobe, Fig. 645.—Schematic Repeesentation of Certain of the Association Pathways of the Cerebral Hemisphere. fibrje propri2e SUPERIOR LONGITUD- « INAL FASCICULUS \ INFERIOR LONGITUDINAL FASCICULUS i.e., the frontal pole with the orbital gyri. Its shape is due to its having to curve backwards around the stem of the lateral cerebral fissure. (4) The superior longitudinal fasciculus is the longest of the association paths, and connects the frontal, occipital, and temporal lobes. From the frontal lobe it passes laterally, transverse to the radiations of the corpus callosum and the lower part of the corona radiata, along the inner aspect of the opercula, and above the in- sula to the region of the posterior end of the lateral fissure, and thence it curves down- wards and forwards to the cortex of the temporal lobe. Some of its fibres extend to the cortex of the temporal pole. The occipital portion consists of a loose bundle given off from the region of the downward curve, which radiates thence to the occipital cortex. (5) The inferior longitudinal fasciculus connects the temporal and occipital lobes and extends along the whole length of these lobes parallel with their tentorial surfaces. Posteriorly it courses lateral to the lower part of the occipito-thalamic radiation, from which it differs by the fact that its fibres are less compactly arranged. (6) The medial and lateral longitudinal striae of the upper surface of the corpus