THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM 1001 neurones may be involved in the transmission of a given impulse when sent from a region distant from the tissue to which it is distributed. Communication between the central nervous system and the sympathetic is established through both efferent and afferent fibres. In the region of the spinal cord both varieties of fibres pass from one system to the other by way of the rami com- municantes, delicate bundles of fibres connecting the nearby sympathetic trunk with the respective spinal nerves. The efferent fibres of the rami arise in the ventral hom of the spinal cord, emerge through the ventral roots, enter the rami, and terminate for the most part about the cells of the nearest sympathetic ganglion; some, however, may pass through or over the ganglion of the sympathetic cord and terminate about cells in more distant ganglia. Since these fibres transmit impulses from the central to the sympathetic system, they are known as efferent splanchnic fibres. They are of smaller size than is the average for the cerebro-spinal efferent or motor fibres of the ventral root. The afferent splanchnic fibres are of two varieties:—(1) Per- ipheral processes of the spinal ganglion-cells which run outwards in the nerve-trunk, enter the rami communicantes, pass through the various connecting trunks and ter- minal rami of the sympathetic and terminate in the tissues supplied by these rami. Such are merely sensory fibres of the cerebro-spinal type which collect impulses in the domain of the sympathetic and convey them to the central system by way of the sympathetic nerves and the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. (2) Afferent sympa- thetic fibres proper. The actual existence of these has not been long established, and their relative abundance is as yet uncertain. They consist of fibres arising in the sympathetic ganglia which enter the spinal ganglia by way of the rami communicantes and the cerebro-spinal nerve-trunk and terminate in arborisations about the spinal ganglion-cells, chiefly about the Dogiel cells of type II (D, fig. 717). The afferent impulses transmitted by these sympathetic fibres are borne into the spinal cord by way of the cerebro-spinal fibres of the dorsal roots. They must necessarily either receive the impulses they bear from sympathetic neurones having both peripheral and central processes or they themselves must be axones or central processes of neu- rones having also processes terminating in the peripheral tissues. The thoracic and the lumbar spinal nerves are connected with the sympathetic trunk (gangliated cord) by two rami communicantes. Most of both the efferent splanchnic and also the afferent splanchnic fibres (which arise in the spinal ganglia) pass by way of a separate ramus. Both these varieties being of the cerebro-spinal type, and, therefore, medullated, they give the ramus a white appearance meriting the name white ramus communicans. Fibres of the sympathetic type predomi- nate in the second ramus and thus it is the grey ramus communicans. The latter consists of:—(1) afferent sympathetic fibres and (2) of sympathetic fibres which join the primary divisions of the spinal nerves and course in them to their allotted tissues (fig. 717). In the sacral region, most of the efferent splanchnic fibres pass over the ganglia of the sympathetic trunk and terminate in the more peripheral ganglia of the plexuses of this region. This is especially true for the fibres passing from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. In the cervical region white rami are not in evidence, a fact probably explicable as due to an arrangement by which at least most of the efferent splanchnic fibres arising in the cervical segments of the spinal cord pass downwards in these segments and join the sympathetic through the white rami of the upper thoracic nerves; others may enter the cervical portion of the gangliated cord through the spinal accessory or eleventh cranial nerve, rather than through individual white rami. All the spinal nerves are joined by grey rami com- municantes from the sympathetic trunk. Vaso-motor fibres to the meninges and intrinsic blood-vessels of the spinal cord pass to the spinal nerves by way of the grey rami. Thence they may reach the men- inges by one of three ways:—(1) through the delicate recurrent or meningeal branch of the spinal nerve (fig. 717); (2) through the trunk and ventral root of the spinal nerve; (3) probably more rarely, through the trunk and dorsal root of the spinal nerve (fig. 718). Corresponding communications exist between the cranial nerves and the sym- pathetic, but these occur further towards the periphery and in not so regular a manner as the communications between the spinal nerves and the sympathetic system. The mesencephalon, for example, is chiefly connected with the ciliary ganglion of the sympathetic by fibres which are sent through the oculo-motor nerve and which enter this ganglion by way of its short root and terminate about its cells.