998 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM The so-called sympathetic system is that portion of the nervous system which is especially concerned in the distribution of impulses to the glandular tissues, to the muscle of the heart, and to the non-striated muscular tissue of the body wherever found. Since these tissues are most abundant in and largely comprise the viscera or splanchnic organs of the body, the largest and most evident of the structures com- prising the sympathetic system are found either in or near the cavities containing the viscera. However, the finer divisions of the system ramify throughout the whole body, supplying vaso-motor fibres to the blood-vessels throughout their course, con- trolling the glands of the skin, and supplying pilo-motor fibres for the hairs, form- ing intrinsic plexuses within the walls of the viscera, and certain of its fibres convey impulses towards the central system (sensory sympathetic neurones). While it is very probable that certain of the simpler reactions of the splanchnic organs may be mediated by the sympathetic system alone, yet the sympathetic is by no means in- dependent of the cerebro-spinal system, but is rather, both anatomically and func- tionally, merely a part of one continuous whole. Throughout, it shares its domain of termination with cerebro-spinal fibres, chiefly of the sensory variety, and most of its rami and terminal branches carry a few cerebro-spinal fibres towards their areas of distribution. Likewise the cerebro-spinal nerves carry numerous sympathetic fibres gained by way of rami connecting the two systems. Fig. 715.—Diagram showing (1) the Growth of the Primitive Ganglia from the Neural Crest; (2) the Division of the Primitive Ganglia into Spinal and Sympathetic Portions, and (3) the Formation of the Nerves. SUB FACE ECTODERM NEURAL CREST SPINAL GANGLION NEURAL TUBE NEURAL CREST {Disappearing) SURFACE ECTODERM NEURAL TUBE STMPA THE TIC GANGLION SPINAL GANGLION VENTRAL NERVE-ROOT SURFACE ECTODERM SPINAL CORD DORSAL NERVE-ROOT STMPA THE TIC GANGLION Like the cerebro-spinal system, the sympathetic consists of cell-bodies, each of which gives off one axone. In addition, the cell-bodies give off numerous dichoto- mously branched dendrites by which their receptive surfaces are increased, and they are accumulated into ganglia, large and small. The larger ganglia have more or less constant positions, shapes, and arrangements, while the smaller, some of which are microscopic, are scattered throughout the body in a seemingly more indefinite manner. The axones or fibres arising in these ganglia are given off in trunks and rami which connect the ganglia with each other or with the cerebro-spinal system, or which pass from the ganglia to be distributed directly upon their allotted elements. The sympathetic fibres arising from the ganglia are, for the most part, either totally non-medullated or partially medullated. Some fibres are medullated near theircells of origin, but lose their medullary sheaths before reaching their terminations. Some of them possess complete medullary sheaths throughout, but in no cases are the sheaths as thick or well developed as is the rule with the cerebro-spinal fibres. Thus, nerve-trunks and rami in which sympathetic fibres predominate appear greyish in colour and more indefinite, as distinguished from those of the cerebro-spinal nerves, which always appear a glistening white, due to light being reflected from the myelin of the sheaths of their fibres. Origin of the sympathetic system.—Not only must the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems be considered anatomically continuous and dependent, but also the neurones of the two systems have a common origin, namely, the ectoderm of the dorsal mid-line of the embryo. The cells of the neural crest (see p. 753) become arranged in segmental groups and soon separate into two varieties:—those which will