School of medicine STRUCTURE OF THE M^&feS^1 ^ ^ ^- There are several small detached portions of the olivary nucleus known as the ac- cessory olivary nuclei. These are named according to their position with reference to the chief portion or olive proper. They are less corrugated than the chief nucleus, and appear rod-like in sections. The largest is the dorsal accessory olivary nucleus. The medial accessory olivary nucleus is widest at its inferior end, which extends a little below the inferior extremity of the chief nucleus. The lateral accessory olivary nucleus is the smallest. In serial sections the accessory nuclei are found to be plates of grey substance and usually continuous with one another. The olivary nuclei are mainly cerebellar connections. By both ascending and descending fibres each cerebellar hemisphere is connected with the olivary nucleus of the same and opposite sides. These fibres necessarily pass between the cere- bellum and the olives by way of the restiform body, and, in so doing, form an obliquely coursing bundle in the lateral border of the medulla known as the cerebello-olivary fibres (fig. 595). The arcuate fibres are referred to as internal and external, according as they course dorsal or ventral to the inferior olivary nucleus. The internal arcuate fibres comprise fibres destined for both the cerebellum and cerebrum, and also for the association of the tegmental grey substance of the two sides in which they course. Certain of the fibres passing between one restiform body (cerebellar hemisphere) and the olive of the opposite side course internal to the olive of the same side, and thus form the ventral portion of the internal arcuate fibres. Fig. 596.—Reconstruction of the Inferior Olivary Nucleus, Dorso-lateral Surface. (After Sabin.) As noted above, the internal arcuate fibres consist in greatest part of cerebro-afferent fibres, arising from the cells of the nucleus funiculi gracilis and funiculi cuneati and sweeping downwards and decussating to form the lemniscus of the opposite side. However, all the fibres arising in these nuclei do not enter the lemniscus. A few of them cross the mid-line with the internal arcuates, but pass on to enter the restiform body (cerebellar hemisphere) of the opposite side. Some of these course ventrally and, upon approaching the olive of the opposite side, are deflected around the ventral side of both the olive and the pyramid, and thus pass to the restiform body as external arcuate fibres also. Certain of the internal arcuate fibres arise from the cells of the nuclei of termination of the cranial nerves and from small cells situated in the grey substance of the reticular formation. These, in crossing the mid-line, correspond to the white commissures of the spinal cord. Some of them terminate in the med- ulla; others join the lemniscus and pass towards the cerebrum; others reach the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side. The external arcuate fibres, in addition to those mentioned above, comprise cer- tain fibres which arise in the nuclei funiculi gracilis and cuneati and pursue a dorso- lateral course to enter the restiform body of the same side. These form the dorsal segment of the external arcuates. The greater mass of the external arcuates are cerebello-olivary fibres. Certain of those passing from one olive to the restiform body of the opposite side are deflected at the raphe, and course on the ventral side of both the other olive and the pyramid in order to reach the cerebello-olivary bundle. Like-