THE OBTURATOR NERVE 941 The posterior branch descends along the posterior border of the sartorius, and it gives off a branch which passes beneath that muscle to unite with twigs from the saphenous and from the superficial division of the obturator nerve, forming with them the subsartorial plexus which lies on the roof of the adductor (Hunter's )canal. At the inner side of the knee the nerve pierces the deep fascia and it descends to the middle of the calf (figs. 689 and 691). The deep terminal branches are six in number, one cutaneous branch, the saphenous, and five muscular branches. The branches radiate from the termination of the trunk of the femoral (anterior crural) nerve, and they are arranged in the following order from within outward:—the saphenous nerve, the nerve to the vastus medialis, the nerve to the articularis genu (subcrureus), the nerve to the vastus inter- medius (crureus), the nerve to the vastus lateralis, and the nerve to the rectus femoris. The saphenous nerve passes down through Scarpa's triangle along the outer side of the femoral artery. At the apex of the triangle it entersthe adductor (Hunter's) canal and descends through it, lying first to the outer side, then in front, and finally to the inner side of the artery (fig. 690). After emerging from the lower end of the canal, accompanied by the superficial branch of the genu suprema (anastomotic) artery, it passes between the posterior border of the sartorius and the anterior border of the tendon of the gracilis, and, becoming superficial, it enters into relationship with the great saphenous vein and descends with it along the inner border of the upper two-thirds of the tibia (fig. 691). It crosses the inner surface of the lower third of the tibia, passes in front of the internal malleolus, and runs forwards along the inner border of the foot to the ball of the great toe. While it is in the adductor (Hunter's) canal it gives off a twig to the subsartorial plexus. Before it passes from under cover of the sartorius it gives off an infra- patellar branch, which pierces the sartorius just above the knee and passes outwards to the patellar plexus. After it becomes superficial it supplies the integument on the inner side of the leg and foot, and it anastomoses, in the foot, with the medial dorsal cutaneous branch of the superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous) nerve. The nerve to the vastus medialis accompanies the saphenous nerve in the femoral trigone (Scarpa's triangle), lying to its outer side. At the upper end of the adductor canal it passes beneath the sartorius, external to the roof of the canal, and enters the inner surface of the vastus medialis. It sends a twig down to the knee-joint. The nerve to the articularis genu (subcrureus), usually a terminal branch of the femoral, frequently arises from the nerve to the vastus intermedins. It passes between the vastus medialis and the vastus intermedius to the lower third of the thigh, where it supplies the articularis genu and sends a branch to the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus intermedius (crureus) is represented by two or three branches which enter the upper part of the muscle. One of them frequently sends a twig to the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus lateralis passes downwards behind the rectus and along the anterior border of the vastus lateralis accompanied by the descending branch of the external circumflex artery. It also sends a branch to the knee-joint. The nerve to the rectus femoris (fig. 690) enters the deep surface of that muscle, having previously given off a twig to the hip-joint which accompanies the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery. The Obturator Nerve contains fibres from the anterior divisions of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, but its largest root is derived from the third nerve (figs. 688 and 693). It sometimes receives fibres from the first and third lumbar nerves. It emerges from the inner border of the psoas at the posterior part of the brim of the pelvis, where it lies in close relation with the lumbo-sacral trunk of the plexus, from which it is separated by the ilio-lumbar artery. Immediately after its exit from the psoas it pierces the pelvic fascia, crosses the outer side of the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, and runs forwards in the extraperitoneal fat, below the obliterated hypogastric artery and along the upper part of the inner surface of the obturator internus to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it passes through the obturator canal below the so-called horizontal ramus of the pubis and above the obturator membrane, into the upper part of the thigh. It is accompanied in the pelvis and the obturator canal by the obturator artery, which lies at a lower level than the nerve, and it divides in the obturator canal into two branches, an anterior and a posterior.