THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 830 the fibres of Gudden's commissure (inferior cerebral commissure). This com- missure consists of fibres which connect the medial geniculate bodies of the two sides with each other, and which, instead of crossing the mid-line through the mesen- cephalon, course in the optic tracts and cross by way of the posterior portion of the optic chiasma. It consists of fibres which both arise and terminate in each of the bodies, and, therefore, of fibres coursing in both directions. THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES The cerebral hemispheres in man form by far the largest part of the central nervous system. Together, when viewed from above, they present an ovoid surface, markedly convex upwards, which corresponds to the inner surface of the vault of the cranium. The greatest transverse diameter of this surface lies posteriorly in the vicinity of the parietal eminences of the cranium. The outline of the dorsal aspect varies according to the form of the cranium, being more spheroidal in the brachy- cephalic and more ellipsoidal in the dolichocephalic forms. The hemispheres are separated from each other dorsally by a deep median slit, the longitudinal fissure, into which fits a duplication of the inner layer of the dura mater known as the falx cerebri. The posterior or occipital extremities of the hemispheres overlap the cere- bellum, and thus entirely conceal the mesencephalon and thalamencephalon. They are separated from the dorsal surface of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina by the deep transverse fissure. This is occupied by the tentorium cerebelli, which is similar to and continuous with the falx cerebri and is connected with the tela chori- oidea of the third ventricle below. Each of the hemispheres is usually described as having three poles or projecting extremities, and three surfaces bounded by intervening borders. The most anterior projection is the frontal pole. This is near.the mid-line, and with its fellow of the other hemisphere, forms the frontal end of the ovoid contour of the cerebrum. The occipital pole is the most projecting portion of the posterior and inferior end, and is more rounded and thus not so near the mid-line as the frontal pole. The ventro- lateral portion of the hemisphere is separated anteriorly by the deep lateral fissure (fissure of Sylvius) into a distinct division, the temporal lobe, and the anterior portion of this lobe projects prominently forwards and is known as the temporal pole. The surfaces of the hemisphere are—(1) the dorso-lateral or convex surface; (2) the medial surface; and (3) the basal surface. The convex surface comprises the entire rounded aspect of the hemisphere visible previous to manipulation or dissec- tion, and is the surface subjacent to the vault of the cranium. The mesial surface is perpendicular, flat, and parallel with that of the other hemisphere, the two bounding the longitudinal fissure and for the most part in contact with the falx cerebri. The superomesial border intervenes between the convex and medial surfaces, and is thus convex and extends from the frontal to the occipital pole. The more complex basal surface fits into the anterior and middle cranial fossae, and posteriorly rests upon the tentorium cerebelli. Thus it is subdivided into—(a) an orbital area, which is slightly concave, since it is adapted to the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and is separated from the convex surface by the necessarily arched superciliary border and from the mesial surface by the internal orbital border, the latter being straight and extending from the frontal pole mesial to the olfactory bulb and tract; (b) a tentorial area or surface, which is arched in conformity with the dorsal surface of the cerebellum. This is separated from the convex surface by the infero- lateral border, which runs from the occipital to the temporal pole; and from the mesial surface by the internal occipital border, which is a more or less rounded ridge extending from the occipital pole obliquely upwards in the angle formed by the junction of the perpendicular falx cerebri and the horizontal tentorium cerebelli. This border is best seen in brains which have been hardened with the membranes in situ. The remainder of the basal surface includes the optic portion of the hypo- thalamus already considered, and the small depressed and punctate area, the anterior perforated substance, which is penetrated by the antero-lateral group of the central branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries and into which the striae of the olfactory trigone disappear. In addition to the orbital area the basal surface of the hemisphere shows signs of the impress of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and of the great wing of the sphenoid.