STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA 799 the grey commissure gives rise to two thick dorsal outgrowths on each side of the mid-line. These dorsal projections of grey substance comprise the nuclei of termina- tion (relays) of the chief ascending or sensory cerebro-spinal fasciculi of the spinal cord. The nucleus funiculi gracilis (nucleus of Goll's column) arises a little before the nucleus funiculi cuneati (nucleusof Burdach's column). The former extends slightly downwards from its point of origin, so that its inferior extremity is included in sections through the decussation of the pyramids (fig. 592). It produces a slight bulbous enlargement (the clava) of the end of the funiculus gracilis, while the nucleus funiculi cuneati corresponds to the cuneate tubercle of the external contour of the medulla (figs. 582 and 591). From the cells of these nuclei arise the lemniscus—the cephalad continuation of the cerebro-spinal pathway which conveys the general bodily sensations to the cerebrum. In passing out of the nuclei the fibres of the lemniscus Fig. 594.—Diagram of thk Decussation of the Lemnisci. course in a ventro-medial direction. Curving around the region of the central canal, they contribute largely to the internal arcuate fibres, then, sweeping across the mid- line, they convert it into the raphe, and immediately after crossing (decussating) they turn cephalad and collect to form the bundle known as the lemniscus. In the medulla, the lemnisci are two thin bands of fibres spread vertically on each side of the raphe, with their lower or ventral edges thicker than their dorsal edges. In their course towards the cerebrum they increase in bulk, owing chiefly to fibres being added to them from the nuclei of termination of the afferent roots of the cranial nerves. In passing through the region of the pons, the lemnisci gradually become spread horizontally, and beyond the pons their then more outer portions are further displaced and come to course in the lateral borders of the isthmus rhombencephali and mesencephalon, while the inner portions remain nearer the mid-line. This lateral spreading of each lemniscus produces the lateral lemniscus and the medial