821 THE MESENCEPHALON is, therefore, a continuation of the central sensory pathway conveying the general bodily sensations into the prosencephalon. In passing the superior quadrigeminate body it contributes fibres to its nucleus. The remaining part, coursing still more later- ally than below, passes into the hypothalamic grey substance, in the lateral portion of which most of its fibres terminate. From the thalamic region the impulses borne thither by the lemniscus are conveyed by way of the internal capsule and corona radiata to the gyri of the somsesthetic area of the cerebral cortex. The basis (pes) pedunculi comprises the great descending pathway from the cere- bral cortex, and thus is continuous with the internal capsule of the telencephalon. The principal components of each basis pedunculi are as follows:—(1) The pyra- midal fibres, which occupy the middle portion of the peduncle and comprise three- fifths of its bulk, and which are outgrowths of the giant pyramidal cells of the somses- thetic area of the cerebral cortex. These supply ' voluntary' impulses to the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves, form the pyramids of the medulla, and are distributed to the ventral horn cells of the spinal cord. (2) The frontal pontile fibres, which course in the mesial part of the peduncle from the cortex of the frontal lobe to their termina- tion in the grey substance of the pons. (3) The temporal pontile fibres, which run in the lateral portion of the peduncle from their origin in the temporal lobe to their termination in the grey substance of the pons. The substantia nigra is continuous with the grey substance of the pons and of the reticular formation below, and with that of the hypothalamic region above. Its remarkable abundance begins at the superior border of the pons, and it conforms to the crescentic inner contour of the basis pedunculi, sending numerous processes which occupy the inter-fascicular spaces of the latter. It contains numerous deeply pigmented nerve-cells, which in the fresh specimen give the appearance suggesting its name. Its anatomical significance is not well understood. It is known that some fibres of the medial lemniscus terminate about its cells instead of in the hypothalamus higher up, and Melius has found in the monkey that a large portion of the pyramidal fibres arising in the thumb area of the cerebral cortex are interrupted in the substantia nigra. It is probable that other fibres of the basis pedunculi also terminate here. The brachia conjunctiva or superior cerebellar peduncles, in passing from their origin in the dentate nuclei, lose their flattened form and enter the mesencephalon as rounded bundles. In the tegmentum, under the inferior colliculi, the two brachia come together and undergo a sudden and complete decussation. Through this decussation the fibres of the brachium of one side pass forwards to terminate, most of them, in the red nucleus of the tegmentum (nucleus ruber) of the opposite side (fig. 589). The red nuclei are two large, globular masses of nerve-cells situated in the tegmentum under the superior quadrigeminate bodies. At all levels they are con- siderably mixed with the entering bundles of the brachia conjunctiva, and they con- tain a pigment which in the fresh condition gives them a reddish colour, suggesting their name. They receive in addition descending fibres from the cerebral cortex and from the nuclei of the corpus striatum. From the cells of each red nucleus arise fibres which pass—(1) into the thalamus and to the telencephalon (prosenceph- alic continuation of the cerebellar path), and (2) fibres which descend into the spinal cord, the 'rubro-spinal tract,' in the intermediate fasciculus (fig. 571). The latter cross from the red nucleus of the opposite side and descend in the tegmentum. The red nuclei are also in relation with the fasciculus retroflexus of Meynert, which belongs to the inter-brain. The superior quadrigeminate bodies (superior colliculi) are phylogenetically more important than the inferior. In certain of the lower vertebrates they are enormously developed and in most of the mammals they are relatively larger and ap- pear more complicated in structure than in man. They are concerned almost wholly with the visual apparatus. The nucleus of the superior colliculus is of somewhat greater bulk than that of the inferior. It is capped by a strong stratum zonale (fig. 611), which has been described as composed chiefly of retinal fibres, passing to it from the optic tract by way of the superior brachium, but, since Cajal found in the rabbit that extirpation of the eye is followed by very slight degeneration of the stratum zonale, it is probable that it is com- posed of other than retinal fibres—possibly fibres from the occipital cortex and fibres arising within the nucleus itself. The nucleus is separated from the central grey