ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1072 nasal fossa, situated between the dorsal extremities of the middle and inferior conchse (turbinate bones) and the anterior lip of the pharyngeal orifice of the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube), is known as the naso-pharyngeal meatus. The nasal mucous membrane (the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane).—The nasal cavity is completely lined with mucous membrane, which ventrally, at the limen, blends with the skin which lines this part of the vestibule (p. 1070). Dorsally it joins the mucous membrane of the pharynx and palate. It covers up some of the openings which are seen in the bony walls; those, however, which lead into the air-sinuses and into the naso-lachrymal duct remain patent, although the bony open- ings are much reduced in size. In the nasal cavity proper the bright rose-red vascu- lar mucous membrane is tightly bound to the periosteum and perichondrium, and is covered with a ciliated columnar epithelium. Numerous large mucous nasal glands pour their more or less watery secretion over the entire surface, and form in the submucous stratum a layer of considerable thickness. Here, also, a very con- siderable venous plexus is found, especially over the middle and inferior conchse (tur- Fig. 770.—Transverse Section through the Nasal Fossae and Maxillary Sinus at the Dorsal Extremity of the Middle Concha. (Ventral view.) binate bones), where it forms the cavernous plexus of the conchas. The thickness which these glands and venous plexuses give to the mucous membrane causes the air-spaces of the bony fossae to be much contracted in the recent state, and in children a considerable'amount of adenoid tissue is also found in the submucous layer. The region covered by the mucous membrane just described forms the greater part of the nasal cavity, and is known as the respiratory region. A small area of the mucous membrane over the superior concha and the adjacent septal wall (fig. 772) has a some- what different structure. In this area the olfactory nerves terminate, whence it is known as the olfactory region, and its mucous membrane, compared with that of the respiratory region, is less vascular, yellow or yellowish-brown in colour, and covered by a non-ciliated epithelium. It contains specially modified cells, which form the true olfactory organ and receive the terminations of the olfactory nerve. Small mucous olfactory glands occur in the region. The paranasal sinuses or accessory cavities which connect with the nasal cavity are: the maxillary sinuses (antra of Highmore), the sphenoidal sinuses, the frontal sinuses, and the ethmoidal cells, and have been described in the section on Osteology. The mucous membrane