THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 772 entirely to those neurones which give origin to the ventral or motor roots. It repre- sents merely a delayed decussation of the pyramidal fibres, for instead of crossing to the opposite side in the lower portion of the medulla oblongata, as do the fibres of the lateral fasciculus, its fibres decussate all along its course, crossing in the ven- tral white commissure and in the commissural bundle of the cord to terminate about the ventral horn cells of the opposite side. Hoche, employing Marchi's method, found that a few of its fibres terminate in the ventral horn of the same side. This conforms to the pathological and experimental evidence that there are homolateral or uncrossed fibres in the crossed pyramidal tracts also. Like the crossed tract, the ventral pyramidal tract diminishes rapidly in volume as it descends the cord. Its loss is greatest in the cervical enlargement, and it is entirely exhausted in the thoracic cord. With the exception of the monkey, none of the mammalia below man, which have been investigated, possess this ventral pyramidal tract. Lying between the ventral cerebro-spinal fasciculus and the pia mater of the ante- rior median fissure is a thin tract of descending axones continuous ventrally with the anterior marginal fasciculus. From its position it is known as the sulco-marginal fasciculus. The extent of its course in the spinal cord is uncertain. It arises from the cells of the grey substance of the superior pair of the corpora quadrigemina, and there, in largest part at least, it crosses the mid-line, and in the so-called 'optic acoustic reflex path' descends through the medulla oblongata into the spinal cord of the opposite side. The commissural bundle is situated about the floor of the anterior median fis- sure, and is the most dorsal tract of the anterior funiculus. It contains decussating or commissural axones of three varieties:—(1) It contains the decussating axones of the ventral cerebro-spinal fasciculus throughout the extent of that fascicu- lus; (2) it is chiefly composed- of the axones of the ventral fasciculus pro- prius which arise in the grey substance (ventral horn) of one side, cross the mid-line as commissural fibres, and course both upwards and downwards to be dis- tributed to the neurones of different levels of the grey substance of the opposite side; (3) it contains decussating axones which arise from cell-bodies in the grey substance of one side and cross the mid-line to terminate about cell-bodies in practically the same level of the opposite side. The latter are merely axones belonging to the ven- tral white commissure which course without the confines of the grey figure. The commissural bundle is present throughout the length of the spinal cord, and is largest in the enlargements, i. e., where the association and commissural neurones occur in greater number generally. In its two last-mentioned varieties of axones it corresponds to the commissural portion of the dorsal fasciculus proprius. The ventral fasciculus proprius is but a continuation of the lateral fasciculus proprius, and is composed of ascending and descending association fibres of the same general significance. SUMMARY OF THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord contains two general classes of axones arranged into three gen- eral systems. It contains axones which—(1) enter it from cell-bodies situated out- side its boundaries, i. e., in the spinal ganglia and in the encephalon, and (2) axones which arise from cell-bodies situated within its own grey substance, some of which axones pass outside its boundaries both to the periphery and into the encephalon; some of which remain wholly within it. Its axones comprise—(1) a cerebro-spinal system, ascending and descending; (2) a cerebello-spinal system, ascending and descending, and (3) a system for the intersegmental association of its grey sub- stance, both ascending and descending, association proper and commissural. For these relations the grey substance of the cord contains three general classes of nerve-cells:—(1) those which give rise to the peripheral efferent or motor axones of the ventral roots; (2) those which give rise to central axones of long course, those going to the encephalon, and (3) those which supply its central axones of shorter course, the association and commissural systems. In transverse sections of the spinal cord the relative area of white substance as compared with that of the grey increases as the cord is ascended. The absolute area