THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 790 The biventral lobe is smaller and more curved than the inferior semilunar lobe, from the anterior margin of which it is separated by the curved parapyramidal fissure. Its inner extremity is pointed and does not extend to the vermis; its outer extremity is broader and curves anteriorly to the inner and ventral extremity of the horizontal fissure—the line of outer termination of the inferior semilunar lobe. The tonsil (amygdala) is a rounded, triangular mass, placed mesially within the inner curvature of the biventral lobe, and separated from it by the retrotonsillar fissure. Its mesial border slightly overlaps the vermis. The smallest of the lobes is the flocculus. It lies adjacent to the inferior and lateral surface of the mass of white substance produced by the confluence of the cere- bellar peduncles, and extends into the inner extremity of the horizontal fissure. It is so flattened that its short folia give it the appearance suggesting its name. Oc- casionally there is added a second, less perfectly formed portion, the secondary fioccidus. From each floccular lobe there passes towards the mid-line a thin band of white substance, the peduncle of the flocculus; these extend to meet each other at the most anterior portion of the inferior vermis, and thus form the narrow pos- terior medullary velum. Fig. 586.—Diagram of the Dorsal Surface of the Cerebellum. POSTERIOR CEREBELLAR NOTCH FOLIUM OF VERMIS The inferior vermis is more definitely demarcated than the superior. Lying in the floor of the inferior notch, it is separated on each side from the adjacent lobes of the hemispheres by a well-marked sulcus, the vallecula cerebelli. By contour and by deeper transverse fissures (sulci) occurring at intervals across it, four divisions or lobules of the inferior vermis are recognised. These lobules, like those of the su- perior vermis, are each in intimate relation with the pair of lobes of the hemispheres adjacent to it on either side. 1. The tuber vermis is adjacent to the folium vermis of the dorsal aspect, and thus is the most inferior lobule of the inferior vermis. It is a short, somewhat pyramidal-shaped division, whose four or five transversely arranged folia are con- tinuous with the folia of the inferior crescentic lobes on either side. 2. The pyramid is separated from the tuber vermis by the post-pyramidal fis- sure. Its several folia cross the vallecula cerebelli and curve to connect with the biventral lobes on either side. 3. The uvula is separated from the pyramid by the prepyramidal fissure. It is triangular in shape. Its base or broader inferior portion appears as two laterally projecting ridges of grey substance, the furrowed bands, which extend across the floor of the vallecula and under the mesial margins of the tonsils on either side. In