1023 EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL mal caruncle is in reality an island of modified skin, and fine hairs can commonly be detected on its surface. On its outer side, separated from it by a narrow groove, is the semilunar fold of conjunctiva; it rests on the eyeball, and is a rudiment of the third eyelid or nictitating membrane, present in birds and well represented in many other vertebrates. Examination of the Eyeball, The eyeball of a cadaver should now be removed by snipping with scissors the conjunctiva near the corneal border, then cutting through the ocular muscles near their insertion into the globe, and finally dividing the optic nerve close to the sclerotic. The eyeball is almost spherical, but not perfectly so, mainly because its an- terior, clear, or corneal segment has a greater curvature than the rest of the eye. Considering it as a globe, however, we speak of an anterior and of a posterior pole; the former corresponding to the middle of the front of the cornea, the lat- ter to the middle of the posterior curvature. An imaginary straight line joining the two poles is called the antero-posterior or sagittal axis of the eyeball. The equator of the eye is that part of its surface which lies midway between the two poles. The sagittal axis of the globe is the greatest (about 24'5 mm.), the ver- tical equatorial the least (about 23"5 mm.), and the transverse equatorial axis is intermediate in length (about 23"9), so that the eyeball is in reality an ellipsoid, flattened slightly from above downwards. Again, if the globe is divided in its antero-posterior vertical plane, the nasal division will be found to be slightly smaller than the temporal. The optic nerve joins the globe three or four millimetres to the nasal side of the posterior pole. The shape of the eye depends on, and is preserved by, the outermost tunic, formed conjointly by the cornea and sclerotic, the entire outer surfaces of which are now in view. The anterior or corneal part has been already examined. All around the cornea there remains a little adherent conjunctiva; elsewhere, the sclerotic is directly exposed, except for some loose connective tissue which adheres to it, especially around the optic nerve entrance. In front of the equator we see the tendinous insertions of the four recti muscles. Behind the equator are the insertions of the two oblique muscles—that of the superior oblique tendinous, and further forwards; that of the inferior more fleshy, and placed between the optic nerve and the external rectus. It is difficult to recognise the different recti muscles by their insertions if we do not know whether the eye examined is a right or a left one. To determine this we should hold the globe with the optic nerve towards us, and in the natural position with the superior oblique tendon uppermost. The inferior oblique tendon will now point to the side to which the eye belongs, and we can consequently determine the different recti muscles. The internal rectus is inserted nearest (7 mm. from) the corneal border; the external rectus commonly, sometimes the superior, is inserted furthest from it (about 8 mm.). All the recti tendons are broad and thin, but that of the internal is the broadest (8 mm.); those of the external and inferior the narrowest (6 mm.). The greatest interval between two neighbouring tendons is that between the supe- rior and internal recti (about 12 mm.); the least is between the superior and ex- ternal (7 mm.). The form of the lines of insertion of the different tendons varies considerably, the inferior being almost straight, the superior and external convex forwards, the internal further removed from the corneal border below than above. The insertions of the obliques are at more than double the average distance of the insertions of the recti from the corneal border. That of the superior oblique is found on the superior surface of the sclerotic, about sixteen millimetres from the corneal edge, in the form of a line sloping from before backwards and inwards. The inferior oblique has a long fleshy insertion lying between the external rectus and the optic nerve entrance; the posterior end of the insertion, which is also the higher, is only about six millimetres from the optic nerve, and from this point it slopes forwards, outwards, and slightly downwards. Several small nerves and two arteries may be seen running forwards and ulti- mately perforating the sclerotic not far from the entrance of the optic nerve. The two arteries are the long posterior ciliary; they both perforate the globe in the hori- zontal meridian, one on the outer, the other on the inner, side. The short ciliary