THE PIA MATER 897 The tela chorioidea of the third ventricle, or velum interpositum, is a tri- angular duplication of the pia mater which extends between the fornix above and the thalami and third ventricle below, and in front ends blindly at the interventricular foramina. In the transverse cerebral fissure the layers of pia forming the tela are separate, the upper being the pia of the under surface of the corpus callosum and con- tinuous with that of the tentorial surfaces of the occipital lobes; the lower being con- tinuous into the pia enfolding the epiphysis, and covering the mesencephalon, anterior medullary velum, and cerebellum. The layers forming the portion of the du- plication which roofs over the third ventricle are loosely adherent to each other and form the tela chorioidea proper of that ventricle. The upper surface of this portion is in relation with the fornix and its lower surface, covered by the epithelial chorioid Fig. 668.—Horizontal Dissection of the Cerebrum showing the Tela Chorioidea of the Third Ventricle. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) The fornix has been removed to show the tela chorioidea. CA UDA TE NUCLEUS ANTERIOR PILLARS OF FORNIX Veins of Galen POSTERIOR PILLARS OF FORNIX Straight sinus CERE- BELLUM CORPUS CALLOSUM {in section) SEPTUM PELLUCI- DUM FIFTH VENTRICLE STRIA TER- MINALS OF THALA- MUS THALAMUS Tela chorioidea (velum inter- positum) Chorioid plexus FIMBRIA HIPPOCAM- PUS MAJOR EMINENTIA COLL A TER- ALIS CALCAR AVIS lamina, lies laterally over the superior surfaces of both thalami, and mesially forms the roof of the third ventricle between them. Between the two layers of this portion, and embedded in a small amount of the spongy subarachnoid tissue retained between them, are the two veins of Galen, the internal cerebral veins. Posteriorly these veins unite in the region of the epiphysis to form the single great cerebral vein (vena cerebri magna). Anteriorly the veins of Galen receive the veins of the septum pellu- cidum from each lamina of the septum pellucidum above, and also the terminal vein (vein of corpus striatum), lying in the stria terminalis of the thalamus, empties into them from each side. The tela chorioidea or velum interpositum extends laterally between the fornix and fimbria above and the stria terminalis of the thalamus below into each lateral 57