879 THE BLOOD SUPPLY OF THE ENCEPHALON The Blood Supply of the Encephalon The double origin of the continuous arterial system of the brain given by the confluence of the two ventral arteries and by the two internal carotid arteries, together with the description of the general distribution of the different cerebral, mesencephalic, and cerebellar arteries into which the system is divided, and the origin and course of the corresponding veins, are fully dealt with in Section V. Here attention may be called briefly to the abundant and systematic internal distribution of the terminal branches of the system and their intimate arrangement for the actual nourishment of the nervous tissues within. The general plan of the blood supply for the entire encephalon may be summarised as follows: —(1) At their origin the different arteries are so connected, directly or indirectly, that the blood approaching the brain by way of the vertebral and internal carotid arteries is practically a common supply for all the arteries of the encephalon, and a given part of it may possibly pass into any one of them. (2) In the pia mater of each division of the encephalon the different arteries again become connected with each other in a superficial, freely anastomosing plexus, continuous throughout. (3) From this plexus of the surface, naturally composed in part of the trunks of the different arteries themselves, arise branches which enter directly into the nervous substance and which break up into twigs that are terminal; i.e., twigs that do not anastomose with each other. (4) The arterial capillary system arising from the terminal twigs passes over into venous capillaries which converge to form corresponding venous twigs which in their turn pass to the surface and join in forming a peripheral, anastomosing venous plexus superimposed upon the similar arterial plexus. (5) From this venous plexus arise the different veins of the encephalon which may or may not accompany the arteries for a short distance, and which finally empty into the sinuses in the cranial dura mater. These, likewise confluent, empty into the internal jugular veins. The chorioid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain are modifications of the general anastomosing peripheral plexuses. The chorioid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles are derived largely from branches of the arteria chorioidea, which arises separately from the internal carotid artery. The blood supply of the cerebrum may best be taken as an illustration of the general plan of the blood-vascular system of the encephalon. The terminal or internal branches of the surface plexus, derived from the posterior, middle, and anterior cerebral arteries, are arranged into two groups, a central or ganglionic and a cortical group. The central or ganglionic branches themselves form four groups in each hemisphere:— (1) The antero-mesial group consists of terminal branches from the plexus of the domain of the anterior cerebral artery, which pass through the medial part of the anterior perforated substance and supply the head of the caudate nucleus, the septum pellucidum, the columns of the fornix, and the lamina terminalis. (2) The antero-lateral group consists of terminal branches from the domain of the middle cerebral artery. These pierce the anterior perforated substance in two sub-groups—(a) the internal and (6) the external striate arteries (fig. 653). The internal striate arteries pass through the segments of the globus pallidus of the lenticular nucleus and through the internal capsule, to both of which they give branches, and they terminate in the caudate nucleus and thalamus. The external striate arteries are larger and more numerous. They pass upwards