979 THE ACOUSTIC NERVE with the buccal branches of the seventh nerve; with the zygomatico-facial branch of the zygomatic nerve (the orbital branch of the maxillary nerve); with the supra- orbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve, and with the palpebral twigs of the maxillary. They supply both eyelids and the orbicularis oculi and zygomaticus (fig. 705). The buccal (infra-orbital and buccal) branches arise sometimes from the lower terminal division and sometimes from both the upper and the lower terminal divisions. The buccal branches, passing forwards upon the masseter and underneath the zygomaticus and quadratus labii superioris, anastomose with the zygomatic and marginal mandibular (supra-mandibular) branches of the seventh nerve, with the buccinator (long buccal) branch of the fifth nerve, and with the terminal branches of the maxillary nerve, forming with the last-named nerve the infra-orbital plexus. They supply the zygomaticus, risorius, quadratus labii superioris, caninus, buccin- ator, incisivi, orbicularis oris, triangularis, quadratus labii inferioris, and the muscles of the nose (fig. 705). The marginal mandibular (supra-mandibular) branch, passing downwards and forwards under cover of the risorius and the depressors of the lower lip, com- municates with the buccal branches and with the ramus colli of the facial nerve, and with the mental branch of the mandibular nerve. It supplies the quadratus labii inferioris and mentalis. The ramus colli (infra-mandibular branch) runs downwards and forwards under cover of the platysma, which muscle it innervates (fig. 705). Beneath the platysma it forms one or more communicating loops, near its commencement, with the great auricular nerve, and longer loops, lower down, with the superficial cervical nerve. Central Connections.—The superior extension of the nucleus of termination of the sensory portion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, in which the fibres of the pars intermedia of the facial terminate, is associated with the soma?sthetio area of the cortex cerebri by the medial lemniscus (fillet) of the same and opposite sides, and with the motor nuclei of the other cranial nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus. The motor nucleus (nucleus of origin) of the facial is asso- ciated with the somsesthetic area (lower third of the anterior central gyrus) by way of the pyr- amidal fasciculi of the same and opposite sides, and with the nuclei of the other cranial nerves by way of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. THE EIGHTH NERVE—THE ACOUSTIC OR AUDITORY Two distinct sets of fibres are contained in each acoustic nerve considered as a whole. They comprise the vestibular and cochlear divisions of the nerve, which could be well considered as separate cranial nerves. Both divisions are purely sen- sory in nature, that is, they are composed of afferent fibres, but, since both their peripheral distribution and their.central connections are different, they must be described separately. They are distinct at their superficial attachment to the lateral aspect of the medulla oblongata at the inferior margin of the pons, the vesti- bular division being medial and ventral to the restiform body and just lateral to the pars intermedia of the facial, while the cochlear division is more lateral and arches around the dorsal surface of the restiform body. However, from near the medulla to the bottom of the internal acoustic (auditory) meatus the two divisions are blended into a common nerve-trunk which runs outwards, anteriorly, and upwards, in company with the facial nerve and the internal auditory artery, which course along its upper surface and are partially enclosed with it in a sheath of connective tissue. At the bottom of the internal auditory meatus the nerve is again separated into its two divisions, the vestibular above and the cochlear below. The vestibular division or nerve.—The fibres of the vestibular division are dis- tributed to the utriculus, the sacculus, and to the ampullae of the three semicircular canals. None of them terminate in the cochlea, and therefore they are not con- sidered auditory in function, but rather as having to do with the phenomena of equili- bration or the sense of position of the body. In the internal auditory meatus the vestibular division is connected by small filaments with the pars intermedia of the facial nerve, both giving fibres to and probably receiving fibres from the geniculate ganglion. At the bottom of the meatus there is interposed in the vestibular division its ganglion of origin, the vestibular ganglion (ganglion of Scarpa). Unlike the ordinary spinal ganglion, to which it corresponds, the vestibular ganglion consists