THE SPINAL NERVES 903 meninges, especially the dura, the nerve-roots and the trunk are attached to the peri- osteum of the margins of the intervertebral foramina and thus are enabled to give some lateral support to the spinal cord in the upper portion of the canal. The majority of the spinal ganglia lie in the intervertebral foramina, closely ensheathed, and thus outside the actual sac or cavity of the dura mater. The ganglia of the last lumbar and first four sacral nerves lie inside the vertebral canal, but since the sheath derived from the dura mater closely adheres to them, they are still outside the sac of the dura mater. The ganglia of the last sacral and of the coccygeal nerves (when present) lie in tubular extensions of the sub-dural cavity, and thus not only within the vertebral canal, but actually within the sac of the dura mater. The trunk of the first cervical nerve is assembled within the sac of the dura mater, and, therefore, the spinal ganglion of this nerve, when present, may lie within the sac. Course and direction of emergence.—Invested with the connective-tissue sheath derived from the meninges, each spinal nerve emerges from the vertebral canal through the intervertebral foramen below the corresponding vertebra, and in re- lation with the spinal rami of the arteries and veins associated with the blood supply of the given localities of the spinal cord. The first cervical nerve does not pass out- wards in an intervertebral foramen proper, but between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas and beneath the vertebral artery. Thus the eighth or last cervical nerve emerges between the seventh cervical and the first thoracic vertebra. The first and second pairs of cervical nerves pass out of the vertebral canal al- most at right angles to the levels of their attachment to the spinal cord. During the early periods of development the level of exit of each pair of spinal nerves is opposite the level of its attachment to the cord, but, owing to the fact that in the later periods the vertebral column grows more rapidly than the cord and increases considerably in length after the cord has practically ceased growing, all the spinal nerves, with the exception of the first two, pass downwards as well as outwards. The obliquity of their course from the level of attachment to the level of exit increases progressively from above downwards, and, as the cord terminates at the level of the second lumbar vertebra, the roots of the lower lumbar and of the sacral nerves pass at first vertically downwards within the dura mater, and form around the filum terminale a tapering sheaf of nerve-roots, the cauda equina (horse's tail) (fig. 566, p. 759). Topography of attachment.—The relations between the levels of attachment of the spinal nerves to the cord and the spinous processes of the vertebrae situated opposite these levels have been investigated by Nuhn and by Reid. The following table compiled by Reid gives the extreme limits of attachment as observed in six subjects. Table of Topography of Attachment of Spinal Nerves. (Reid.) (A) signifies the highest level at which the root filaments of a given nerve are attached to the cord, and (B) the lowest level observed. For example, the root filaments of the sixth thoracic nerve may be attached as high as the lower border of the spinous process of the second thoracic vertebra, or some may be attached as low as the upper border of the spinous process of the fifth thoracic vertebra, but in a given subject they do not necessarily extend either as high or as low as either of the levels indicated. A little above the posterior arch of atlas. Midway between posterior arch of atlas and spine of axis. A little below posterior arch of atlas. Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of spine of axis. Just below upper border of spine of axis. Middle of spine of third cervical vertebra. Just below lower border of spine of axis. Just below lower border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. Lower border of spine of third cervical vertebra. Lower border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. Just below upper border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. Just above lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. Upper border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. Upper border of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. Midway between spines of fifth cervical and sixth cervical vertebra. Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebra. Lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. Just above lower border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. Nerves Second cervical (A) (B) Third " (A) (B) Fourth " (A) (B) Fifth (A) (B) Sixth (A) (B) Seventh " (A) (B) Eighth " (A) (B) First thoracic (A) (B) Second " (A) (B)