1028 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE consists of two layers of pigmented cells, each layer representing the extension for- wards of one subdivision of the retina. The front of the iris is covered by a delicate epithelial layer, a continuation of that lining Descemet's membrane. The colour of the iris in different individuals depends upon the amount of stromal pigment. 3. The innermost or nervous coat.—The inner surface of the uveal tract is everywhere lined by a layer of pigment of corresponding extent, which usually adheres to it closely on dissection. Developmentally, however, this general pigment lining is quite distinct from the uveal coat, and represents the outer wall of the secondary optic vesicle or embryonic retina: it consists of a single layer of pig- mented epithelial cells. The amount of pigment is greatest anteriorly, over the ciliary region and iris, and there is again a small local increase posteriorly, corre- sponding to the macula lutea and to the edge of the optic nerve-entrance. In the ciliary region these cells have recently been described as lining numerous narrow tubular depressions in the inner part of the uveal tract, and they are said to have here a special function, viz., that of secreting the intraocular fluid. From the manner in which the secondary optic vesicle, or optic cup, is formed, its two walls are necessarily continuous in front, at what may be termed the lip of the cup; we have just observed that the outer wall lines the uveal coat everywhere and corresponds in extent; consequently, the lip must be looked for at the edge of the pupil, i. e., at the termination of this coat anteriorly. The inner wall of the cup, consequently, reaches from the lip, or pupillary edge, in front, to the optic stalk or nerve behind, and is in close apposition to the pigment-epithelium; unlike the outer, however, this wall is represented in the developed eye by tissues very dissimilar in structure in different parts of its extent. Tracing it backwards from the pupillary edge, we find that over the whole posterior surface of the iris it exists as a single layer of pigmented epithelium, the developmental changes having here produced a result similar to what we have found throughout in the outer wall: here, accord- ingly, we have a double layer of pigment cells. At the root of the iris the single inner layer of cells still exists; but now they become destitute of pigment, and this condition obtains over the entire ciliary region, constituting what is known as the pars ciliaris retinae. At the line of the ora serrata the tissue derived from the inner wall abruptly increases in thickness, and rapidly acquires that complexity of structure characteristic of the retina proper, which extends from here to the optic nerve. It consists of several layers—nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-epithelium— held together by a supporting framework of delicate connective tissue. The nerve- epithelium is on the outer surface, immediately applied to the pigment-epithelium; at the posterior pole of the eye a small spot (fovea centralis) exists, where this is the only retinal layer represented, and where consequently the retina is extremely thin. The nerve-fibres run on the inner surface of the retina and are continuous with those of the optic nerve; they constitute the only retinal layer that is con- tinued into the intraocular end of the nerve. The nerve-cells are found between these surface layers. The larger blood-vessels of the retina run in the inner layers, and none encroach on the layer of nerve-epithelium. Within the coats mentioned, the interior of the eyeball is fully occupied by con- tents, which are divided into three parts, and differently named according to their consistence and anatomical form. They are all transparent, as through them the light has to pass so as to gain the retina. Of these, the only one that is sharply and independently outlined is the lens, which is situated in the anterior half of the globe at the level of the ciliary processes, where it is suspended between the other con- tents, which fill respectively the space in front of it and the space behind it. The space in front is called the anterior or aqueous chamber; that behind the lens is the vitreous chamber. The lens is a biconvex body, with its surfaces directed anteriorly and posteriorly; these surfaces meet at its rounded-off edge or equator, which is near (but does not touch) the ciliary processes all around. The posterior is considerably more convex than the anterior surface; the central part of each surface is called its pole. The lens is closely encased in a hyaline elastic capsule, thicker over the anterior than over the posterior surface. Thus enclosed, it is held in position in the globe by a suspensory ligament, attached to its capsule near the equator all around, and swung from the ciliary region. Posteriorly, the lens rests in a cup formed by the front part of the vitreous, while its anterior capsule is in contact with the aqueous fluid and lies close against the back of the pupillary border of the iris. When in position