974 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM palatine nerve gives off the posterior inferior nasal nerves. These nerves pass through small openings in the perpendicular plate of the palate bone to supply the mucous membrane covering the posterior part of the inferior nasal concha (tur- binated bone) and the adjacent portions of the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose. The posterior or small palatine nerve passes downwards through a lesser pala- tine foramen (accessory palatine canal), and enters the soft palate, distributing branches to that organ, to the uvula, and to the tonsil. It was formerly believed to convey motor fibres from the facial nerve to the levator palati and azygos uvulse, but it is now believed that these muscles are supplied by the spinal accessory nerve through the pharyngeal plexus (fig. 699). The middle (external) palatine nerve, the smallest of the three, traverses a lesser palatine foramen and supplies twigs to the tonsil and to the adjacent part of the soft palate (fig. 699). Posterior branch.—The pharyngeal branch, which is of small size, passes backwards and somewhat inwards through the pharyngeal (pterygo-palatine) canal accompanied by a branch of the spheno-palatine artery. It is distributed to the mucous membrane of the uppermost part of the pharynx, to the upper part of the posterior nares, to the opening of the Eustachian tube, and to the lining of the sphenoidal sinus. The Otic Ganglion The otic or Arnold's ganglion is a small reddish-grey body which is associated with the mandibular nerve. It lies deeply in the zygomatic fossa, immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner side of the trunk of the mandibular nerve. It is in relation internally with the tensor palati, which separates it from the Eusta- chian tube. In front of it is the posterior border of the pterygoideus internus, and behind it lie the middle and small meningeal arteries. It is compressed laterally, and its greatest diameter, which lies antero-posteriorly, is about three millimetres. Roots.—The ganglion is closely connected with the nerve to the pterygoideus internus, through which it may receive a motor root from the mandibular nerve. Through the small superficial petrosal nerve, which joins the upper and back part of the ganglion, it receives a motor root from the seventh nerve and a sensory root from the ninth nerve. It receives also some root fibres from the Vidian nerve. The sympathetic root is derived from the sympathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery. Branches.—The communicating branches which pass from the ganglion are:— (1) The filaments to the chorda tympani; (2) filaments to the auriculo-temporal nerve; (3) filaments to the spinous nerve (the recurrent branch of the mandibular nerve). The branches of distribution are muscular branches to the tensor tympani, and tensor veli palatini. The Submaxillary Ganglion The submaxillary ganglion is suspended from the lingual division of the mandi- bular nerve by anterior and posterior branches. It is a small reddish body, of tri- angular or fusiform shape, which lies between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus and above the duct of the submaxillary gland. Roots.—The motor and sensory roots are received from the lingual nerve. The motor fibres come from the chorda tympani after it has joined the lingual, and the sensory fibres come directly from the lingual nerve. The sympathetic root is formed by filaments from the sympathetic plexus on the facial artery. Branches.—(a) Five or six glandular branches are given to the submaxillary gland and to Wharton's duct. (6) Branches to the lingual nerve and the sublingual gland. (c) To the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. THE SIXTH NERVE—THE ABDUCENS The abducens on each side arises from the cells of a nucleus which lies in the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle in the region of the inferior part of the pons. The nucleus is situated close to the middle line, ventral to the strise acusticae and