1007 THE CERVICAL SYMPATHETIC GANGLIA anastomose with branches from the superior and middle cardiac nerves and from the inferior cervical ganglion, thus taking part in the formation of the inferior thyreoid plexus, from which branches pass to the thyreoid gland. (d) The middle cardiac nerve arises by one or more branches from the ganglion, or from the trunk of the cord, and passes downwards behind the common carotid artery and, on the right side, either in front of or behind the subclavian artery, and then along the innominate artery to the deep part of the cardiac plexus (figs. 719 and 720). It is frequently larger than the superior cardiac nerve. On the left side the nerve runs between the subclavian and common carotid arteries. On both sides the nerve communicates with the inferior laryngeal nerve and the external laryngeal nerve. The middle cervical ganglion also gives branches to the common carotid plexus. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion The inferior cervical ganglion is irregular in form. It is larger than the middle cervical ganglion, and it lies deeply in the root of the neck behind the vertebral artery or the first part of the subclavian artery, and in front of the interval between the trans- verse processes of the last cervical and the first thoracic vertebrae (figs. 719 and 720). It is connected with the middle cervical ganglion by the sympathetic trunk, and by filaments passing to the ansa subclavia (Vieussenii), and it is either blended directly with the first thoracic ganglion or connected with it by a short stout portion of the trunk. It gives rami to the last two cervical nerves and peripheral branches to the vertebral and internal mammary arteries, to the heart, and to the inferior thyreoid plexus. Connections.—(1) The rami to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves are grey rami communicantes. (2) The branches to the vertebral artery are large and they unite with similar branches from the first thoracic ganglion to form a plexus, the vertebral plexus (fig. 719), which accompanies the artery into the posterior fossa of the cranium, where it is continued on the basilar artery. The plexus communicates in the neck by deli- cate threads with the cervical spinal nerves. (3) The branches to the internal mammary artery form the internal mammary plexus. (4) The inferior cardiac nerve may arise from the inferior cervical ganglion, from the first thoracic ganglion, or by filaments from both these ganglia (figs. 719 and 720). It communicates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and with the middle cardiac nerve, and passes to the deep part of the cardiac plexus. On the left side it frequently joins the middle cardiac nerve to form a common trunk. Construction of the cervical portion of the sympathetic trunk.—This por- tion of the trunk contains both medullated and non-medullated fibres, and a large part of the former are of spinal origin. In the absence of white rami communi- cantes to this portion of the sympathetic trunk, it is evident that few if any of the spinal or efferent splanchnic fibres are contributed to it below the superior ganglion by the cervical region of the spinal cord. Instead, such fibres are known to enter by way of the white rami from the upper thoracic nerves, and to ascend to this portion of the sympathetic trunk. Most of these fibres terminate about the cells of the supe- rior, middle, and inferior cervical ganglia, and these cells in their turn give off sympathetic fibres which pass by way of the communicating branches mentioned above for the cephalic and cervical portions, to their distribution in the structures of the head, neck, and thorax. The efferent splanchnic fibres which terminate in the superior ganglion especially are among those which mediate—(1) vaso-motor impulses for the head; (2) secretory impulses for the submaxillary gland; (3) pilo-motor impulses for the hairs of the face and neck; (4) motor impulses for the smooth muscle of the eyelids and orbit, and (5) dilator impulses for the pupil. The sympathetic or grey fibres in the cervical portion of the sympathetic trunk arise from the cells of the upper thoracic and the cervical ganglia, and are passing either to connect the ganglia with each other or to enter the peripheral branches and proceed to their terminal distribution.