THE CORPUS STRIATUM 857 pass from one to the other through the internal capsule, especially its anterior part. Also each nucleus contributes numerous fibres to, and receives fibres from, the in- ternal capsule. These bundles of fibres both arising and terminating within the nuclei, together with the grey substance among the fibres of the capsule, produce the ribbed and striped appearance suggesting the name, corpus striatum. The caudate nucleus—the intra-ventricular part of the corpus striatum—lies with its thicker anterior part (head) closely related to the internal capsule, but its tail passes back- wards around the posterior border of the capsule and curves downwards and forwards into the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The lenticular nucleus (nucleus lentiformis)—the extraventricular part of the corpus striatum—is embedded in the white substance of the cerebral hemisphere. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, not being so long as the caudate nucleus, and neither having a tail nor extending so far forwards. Its lower surface is separated from the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle by the white substance of the roof of that cornu, and by the tail of the caudate nucleus, and, further forwards, the anterior commissure passes through its base. Its outer surface is rounded and conforms both in extent and curvature with the surface of the insula, from which it is separated by the fibres Fig. 638.—Coronal Section of Telecenphalon Passing Through Frontal Lobes and Anterior Portion of Corpus Striatum. (From mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) of the external capsule and the intervening claustrum. Its oblique upper and inner surface is adapted to the outer surface of the internal capsule, and it comes to a rounded apex in the angle formed by the internal capsule and a plane parallel with the base of the hemisphere. In both horizontal and coronal (transverse) sections through its middle it resembles a compound biconvex lens. Internally this appearance is produced by two vertically curving lamina? of white substance, an external and an internal medullary lamina, which divide its substance into three zones:—the two inner zones together form an area, triangular in section, known as the globus pallidus; the outer, larger and darker, concavo-convex zone is the putamen. Radiating fibres from the medullary laminae extend into the zones, especially those of the globus pallidus. These zones disappear in transverse sections of the anterior portion of the lenticular nucleus (fig. 638), due to the fact that the larger putamen alone comprises this portion and alone becomes continuous with the caudate nucleus. Connections.—Both nuclei of the corpus striatum become continuous with the cortex in the region of the anterior perforated substance, and the putamen of the lenticular nucleus may- blend with the anterior part of the base of the claustrum. The following are the principal fibre connections:—(1) Fibres arising in the nuclei which join the internal capsule to reach the cerebral cortex, and fibres arising in the cortex which descend by the same course to the cells of the