853 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES middle part of the caudate nucleus. Several structures contribute to its floor:— (1) the stria terminalis of the thalamus, a line of white substance conforming to the genu of the internal capsule without, and constituting the boundary between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus, and containing (2) the vena terminalis (vein of the corpus striatum); (3) the lamina affixa, a medial continuation of the stria terminalis upon the surface of (4) the lateral part of the thalamus; (5) the medial edge of the lamina affixa, the taenia chorioidea, and the chorioid plexus continuing under (6) the edge (taenia) of the body and the beginning posterior pillars of the fornix. The chorioid plexus of the lateral ventricle is continuous with that of the third ventricle. The tela chorioidea of the third ventricle (velum interpositum) con- tinues under the taenia of the fornix into the lateral ventricle, and there, along the line of the taenia chorioidea, becomes elaborated into a varicose, convoluted, villus-like fringe, rich in venous capillaries and lymphatics. This fringe is the chorioid plexus. It is continuous in front, at the interventricular foramen, with the corresponding plexus of the opposite lateral ventricle and with the chorioid plexus of the third Fig. 635.—Diagrammatic Transverse Section of Prosencephalon through Bodies of Lateral Ventricles and Middle of Thalamencephalon. FIFTH VENTRICLE FORNIX ventricle. The latter consists of two similar but smaller fringes, which project close together into the cavity of the third ventricle from the median portion of the under surface of the tela chorioidea. Behind, the chorioid plexus of the lateral ventricle curves backwards and downwards into the inferior cornu, being especially well- developed at the region of its entrance into the latter, into what is called the glomus chorioideum. Though apparently lying free in the ventricle, the chorioid plexus is invested throughout by a layer of epithelium, the epithelial chorioid lamina, which is adapted to all its unevennesses of surface and which is a continuation of the ependymal lining of the remainder of the ventricle,—continuous, on the one hand, with that of the lamina affixa and thalamus, and, on the other, with the epithelial covering upon the upper surface of the taenia fornicis and fimbria. The posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle is a crescentic cleft of variable length, convex outwards, which is carried backwards from the posterior end of the body of the ventricle and, curving medianwards, comes to a point in the occipital lobe. Its roof and lateral wall are formed by a portion of the posterior radiation of the corpus cal- losum, which forms a layer, from its appearance known as the tapetum. In trans-