THE SPINAL NERVES 901 vascular systems, while some serve as secretory fibres to the glands. (6) Cerebro- spinal nerve-fibres are characterized by well-developed medullary sheaths, making the nerves appear as white strands; most of the sympathetic fibres are non-medul- lated, some are partially medullated, but none possess as thick medullary sheaths as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Thus sympathetic nerves appear as grey strands. The cerebro-spinal nerves.—There are forty-three pairs of cerebro-spinal nerves, of which thirty-one pairs are attached to the spinal cord (spinal nerves) and twelve pairs to the encephalon (cranial nerves). The spinal nerves are the more primitive and retain the typical character, i.e., each is attached to the spinal cord by two roots, a dorsal or sensory ganglionated root, and a ventral, which is motor, and thus not ganglionated. Most of the cranial nerves have only one root, which in some cases corresponds to a dorsal root and therefore has a ganglion, and in other cases corre- sponds, physiologically at least, to a ventral root of a spinal nerve. Among other differences, the fibres of the first cranial nerve, for example, do not collect to form a distinct nerve-trunk. On account, therefore, of their more typical characters, it is convenient to consider the spinal nerves first. THE SPINAL NERVES The spinal nerves are arranged in pairs, the nerves of each pair being symmetrical in their attachment to either side of their respective segment of the spinal cord, and, in general, symmetrical in their course and distribution. There are usually thirty-one pairs of functional spinal nerves. For purposes of description these are topographic- ally separated into eight pairs of cervical nerves, twelve pairs of thoracic nerves, five pairs of lumbar, five pairs of sacral, and one pair of coccygeal nerves. Occasionally the coccygeal or thirty-first pair is practically wanting, while, on the other hand, there may be frequently found small filaments representing one or even two addi- tional pairs of coccygeal nerves below the thirty-first pair. These rudimentary coccygeal nerves are probably not functional. They never pass outside the verte- bral canal, and often even remain within the tubular portion of the filum terminale. There sometimes occurs an increase in the number of vertebrae in the vertebral column and in such cases there is always a corresponding increase in the number of the spinal nerves. Origin and attachment.—Each spinal nerve is attached to the spinal cord by two roots:—a sensory or afferent dorsal root and a motor or efferent ventral root. Each dorsal root has interposed in its course an ovoid mass of nerve-cells, the spinal ganglion, and the nerve-fibres forming the root arise from the cells of this ganglion and are thus of peripheral origin. The fibres composing the ventral root, on the other hand, are of central origin; they arise from the large motor cells of the ventral horn of the grey column within the spinal cord. Each dorsal root-fibre upon leaving its cell of origin pursues a short tortuous course within the spinal ganglion and then undergoes a T-shaped bifurcation, one product of which passes towards the periphery, where it terminates for the collection of sensations and is known as the peripheral branch, or, since it conveys impulses towards the cell-body, the dendrite of the spinal ganglion neurone. The other product of the bifurcation, the central branch, passes into the spinal cord and in its course towards the cord contributes to form the dorsal root proper. The central branches, upon emerging from the spinal ganglia, form a single com- pact bundle at first, which passes through the dura mater of the spinal cord and then breaks up into a series of root-filaments (fila radicularia). These t hread-like bundles of fibres spread out vertically in a fan-like manner and enter the cord in a direct linear series along its postero-lateral sulcus. The fibres of the ventral root emerge from the cord in a series of more finely divided root filaments, which, unlike the enter- ing filaments of the dorsal root, are not arranged in direct linear series, but make their exit over a strip of the ventro-lateral aspect of the cord in some places as much as two millimetres wide. As they enter the spinal cord the fibres of the dorsal roots undergo a Y-shaped division, both products of which course in the cord longitudinally, an ascending and a descending branch. The descending or caudad branches are shorter than the ascending, and soon enter and terminate about the cells within the grey column of the cord, forming either associational, commissural, or reflex connections, or about cells whose fibres form cerebellar connections. The ascending or cephalad branches are either short, intermediate, or long. The short and intermediate