vii ABSTRACT OF PUBLISHERS' NOTE AS PRINTED IN PART I The very favorable reception accorded the previous editions of this work in America suggested the desirability of making the present (fourth) edition interna- tional in its character, by placing it largely in the hands of an American editor and by securing the services of American Anatomists in the revision or rewriting of certain of the sections. The entire work has undergone a complete revision, and some sections have been entirely rewritten and, in several instances, considerably enlarged; the text has been brought thoroughly up to date by the inclusion of the results of recent investigations, and represents, accurately, the present state of Anatomy. Many illustrations which appeared in previous editions have been omitted, a large number of new figures have been made from specially prepared drawings, and pictures from other books have been included where they served the desired purpose. Special attention should be directed to the use throughout the volume of the nomenclature adopted by the German Anatomical Society and generally known as the Basle nomenclature, or BNA. In employing this nomenclature the editors have been guided by a desire to assist in the unification of anatomical terminology, seeing in such unification an earnest of the thorough internationalization of the science of anatomy and more rapid progress in its development. The modifica- tions of the accepted English nomenclature necessitated by the adoption of the BNA are comparatively few, and where they are radical, the more familiar terms have been added in parentheses. Whilst this is the first text-book of Anatomy in English to adopt the BNA in its entirety, there are a number of books and papers on Embryology, Histology, and Biology in which it is used; its general adoption in the future, it may be confidently expected, will be assured. In this connection, reference should be made to a new book by Prof. Llewellys F. Barker, of Johns Hopkins University, in which a complete list of the terms used in the BNA is given and in which the object, system, and practicability of the nomenclature are explained. Each author is alone responsible for the subject-matter of the article following his name. Care has been exercised on the part of the editors, however, to make the whole uniform, complete, and systematic. P. BLAKISTON'S SON & CO.