860 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM A horizontal section through the taenia thalami, splitting the stria medullaris and thus passing above the massa intermedia, shows the grey mass of the thalamus divided into segments or nuclei by a more or less distinct internal medullary lamina. This extends the whole length of the thalamus, dividing its middle and posterior portion into the medial and the lateral nucleus. In front the lamina bifurcates into a medial limb, extending to the medial surface of the thalamus, and a lateral limb, extending forwards to join the genu of the internal capsule (fig. 641). This bi- furcation results in a cup-like sheet of white substance which encloses the anterior nucleus. On the external surface, next to the internal capsule, there may usually be distinguished an external medullary lamina, separated from the white sub- stance of the capsule by a reticular layer of mixed white and grey substance. The anterior nucleus, lying partially encapsulated in the bifurcation of the in- ternal medullary lamina, is somewhat wedge-shaped and points backwards between the front portions of the lateral and medial nuclei. It is composed chiefly of large cells, and constitutes the anterior tubercle of the dorsal aspect. Its principal connec- tion from below is with the nuclei of the mammillary body of the same and opposite sides, and with fibres from the anterior columns of the fornix direct. The fibres from Fig. 641.—Coronal Section of Prosencephalon through Thalamencephalon at Region of Corpora Mammillaria. (Seen from in front.) (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anat- omy," Rebman, London and New York.) LATERAL VENTRI- both sources enter it by way of the thalamo-mammillary fasciculus (figs. 619 and 641). The significance of this connection is noted in the description of the limbic lobe. The lateral nucleus, lying between the external and internal medullary laminae, extends backwards to include the entire pulvinar, which, as already noted, together with the lateral geniculate body, constitutes the prosencephala nucleus of termina- tion of the optic tract, and the stratum zonale upon the surface of this nucleus might be called the stratum opticum. The anterior portion of the lateral nucleus also receives fibres below from the red nucleus, from the brachium conjunctivum (cerebellum direct), and some fibres of the medial lemniscus terminate about its cells. The medial nucleus lies inside the internal medullary lamina and forms the pos- terior portion of the lateral wall of the third ventricle. It is shorter than the lateral nucleus, and is less extensively pervaded by fibres. It is thought to receive fibres from the red nucleus, and perhaps some from the lemniscus, and is usually con- tinuous across the third ventricle with the opposite medial nucleus by the massa intermedia. All the nuclei of the thalamus are connected with the lenticular nucleus by fibres CLE (CENTRAL PORTION) PONS ( VAROLII)