754 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The mesial diverticulum soon after its formation divides into two secondary vesicles, each of which represents a cerebral hemisphere and each of which gives off ventrally from its anterior part a narrow, tube-like diverticulum which is transformed into the olfactory bulb and olfac- tory tract of the adult encephalon. As development proceeds the cavities of the olfactory diver- ticula become occluded in man. However, in many of those animals in which the olfactory ap- paratus attains greater relative development than in man the cavities persist as the olfactory ventricles. The optic vesicles never persist as ventricles in the adult. Fig. 559.—Diagrams of Surface Views and Sections of Germinal Areas showing the De- velopment of the Neural Groove. A. Earlier stage. B. Later stage. A'. Section through area A along the line a. B'. Section through area B along line b. FORE-BRAIN (rudiment of cere- bral hemispheres) OPTIC VESICLE FIRST PRIMARY VESICLE SECOND PRI- MARY VESICLE THIRD PRIMARY VESICLE The adult human brain is characterised by the preponderant development of the cerebral hemispheres. These expand till, held within the cranial cavity, they extend posteriorly com- pletely over the thalamencephalon and mesencephalon and overlap the cerebellum to its posterior border. Their cavities, which persist from the divided mesial diverticulum of the first or ante- rior embryonic vesicle, are correspondingly large, and comprise the two lateral ventricles (two of the four ventricles) of the adult brain. The third ventricle lies between the thalami and Fig. 560.—Diagrammatic Sagittal Section of a Vertebrate Brain. (After Huxley.) 4, fourth ventricle; s, aqueduct of Sylvius; 3, third ventricle. CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA MID-BRAIN EPIPHYSIS UM CEREBRAL PEDUNCLE THALAMUS \hYPOPHYSIS FORAMEN OF MONRO INTER-BRAIN represents the middle of the three embryonic vesicles, while the fourth is between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata and represents the posterior of the primary vesicles. The four ventri- cles remain continuous with each other, as well as continuous with the central canal of the spi- nal cord. Both they and the central canal represent the persisting portion of the cavity of the original neural tube. The inter-ventricular foramina connecting the third ventricle with the two lateral ventricles are known as the foramina of Monro; that connecting the third ventricle