891 THE ARACHNOID The dura mater in the posterior fossa of the skull, below the tentorium cerebelli, also receives branches from the middle meningeal arteries, but its blood supply is derived mainly—(1) from the meningeal branches of the vertebral arteries which enter the fossa through the foramen mag- num, (2) from meningeal branches of the occipital arteries which enter through the mastoid and condyloid foramina, and (3) from meningeal branches of the posterior auricular and as- cending pharyngeal arteries which enter through the jugular and hypoglossal (anterior condy- loid) foramina. The meningeal veins accompany the arteries as venae comites, usually one vein with each artery. The middle meningeal artery usually has two venae comites. The meningeal veins communicate with the venous sinuses and with the diploic veins, and, unlike ordinary veins, they do not increase much in calibre as they approach their terminations. The nerves of the dura mater are partly derived from the sympathetic filaments which accompany the arteries and partly from the cranial nerves. The nerves, other than sympathetic filaments, which supply the cranial dura mater are derived from the fifth and tenth cranial nerves, and possibly from the first cervical nerve. The branches from the trigeminus are derived from the first, second, and third divisions of that nerve on each side, and it has been stated that branches are given from the nasal branch of the first division to the dura mater in the anterior fossa. The meningeal branch of the first division of the trigeminus supplies the tentorium; that from the second division accompanies the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The meningeal branch of the third division (nervus spinosus) passes into the skull through the fora- men spinosum and is distributed to the dura mater over the great wing of the sphenoid and to the mastoid cells. The recurrent branch of the hypoglossal nerve passes to the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the cranium. It is probable that this recurrent or meningeal branch of the twelfth nerve really consists of fibres derived either from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic or from the first and second cervical nerves. The meningeal branch of the tenth nerve (vagus) springs from the ganglion of the root of that nerve, and is distributed in the posterior cranial fossa. The cranial subdural cavity is not of uniform thickness throughout, being thinner along the basal aspect of the encephalon. The lymph contained in it is usually but little more than is sufficient to keep moist its bounding surfaces. It is continuous with the lymph capillaries of the nerves and those of all the tissues it bathes, and it is in communication with the similar cavity of the spinal canal. Its lymph is in free contact with the blood-vessels passing through it and with those in the tissues it bathes, and it is replenished by filtration through their walls. Though extensive, the subdural space is thin at best, for the dura mater is quite closely applied to the second of the three meninges. The Arachnoid The arachnoid or 'serous' membrane is the middle of the three meninges of the central nervous system. As in the case of the other two, an attempt is made to give this membrane a name descriptive of its texture. It is a gauzy reticulum of almost web-like delicacy, which in reality pervades the space it occupies. Its outer surface, or that closely related to the dura mater and bounding the subdural cav- ity, alone shows a sufficiently organized structure to merit the name of membrane. This surface is covered by a layer of endothelium which is identical with that lining the inner surface of the dura mater and is continuous with it by way of the endothe- lial cells covering the blood-vessels, the nerve-roots, the ligamenta denticulata of the spinal cord, and the occasional delicate trabecular passing between the dura mater and the arachnoid. Immediately under the endothelium, the connective-tissue fibres of the arachnoid are woven into a very thin, more or less compact feltwork. This, however, quickly grades into a loose, spongy reticulum which pervades the thick subarachnoid cavity throughout, and the strands of which are directly continuous into the more compact tissue of the pia mater. Thus an inner surface can hardly be claimed. This loose, sponge-like arachnoid tissue holds the cerebro-spinal fluid of the sub- arachnoid cavity, the meshes of the sponge constituting a reticular web of intercom- municating spaces lined by endothelioidal cells covering the strands of the web. The cranial subarachnoid cavity is larger, and the strands of the web are relatively more abundant than in that of the spinal canal. In addition, the cavity is traversed by the spinal and cranial nerves, by the blood-vessels passing to and from the pia, and, in the spinal canal distinctively, it is traversed by the ligamenta denticulata and the filum terminale. Through these the arachnoid is further continuous with the pia mater. The cranial arachnoid is directly continuous into that of the spinal cord, and in the two localities does not differ as much as does the dura mater. Within the cranium, the arachnoid does not closely follow the surface of the encephalon. It is folded in between the cerebellum and cerebral hemispheres, following the contour of the tentorium cerebelli, but it does not dip into the fissures and sulci except the ante-