858 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM nuclei. (2) Fibres which pass in both directions between the thalamus and the corpus striatum (caudate nucleus especially). These are more abundant anteriorly, and necessarily pass through the internal capsule. (3) The ansa lenticularis, a usually distinct bundle, composed largely of fibres passing between the thalamus and lenticular nucleus. It passes from the under aspect of the anterior tubercle of the thalamus and curves below through the internal capsule to the under surface of the lenticular nucleus, and there its fibres are distributed upwards through its medullary lamina to the globus pallidus and putamen. Some enter the internal capsule and reach the cortex, chiefly that of the temporal lobe. (4) Fibres connecting both nuclei (chiefly the caudate) with the substantia nigra of the mesencephalon. These pass through the hypo- thalamic region and along the cerebral peduncle. The claustrum is a triangular plate of grey substance which is embedded in the white substance between the lenticular nucleus and the insula. Its inner surface is concave, conforming to the convexity of the putamen. The sheet of white substance intervening between it and the putamen is known as the external capsule. Its outer surface shows ridges or projections in section which conform to the neighbour- ing gyri of the insula, and it is spread through an area which quite closely corresponds to that of the insula. Below and anteriorly it becomes continuous with the cortex Fig. 639.—Coronal Section of Telencephalon through the Anterior Commissure, Optic Chiasma, and Trunk of Corpus Callosum. (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Rebman, London and New York.) CAUDATE NUCLEUS (HEAD) INTERNAL CAPSULE (FRONTAL POR- TION) LENTI- CULAR \ ™CLE- 1 GLOBUS C"S PALLI- L DUS MF.nui.LAR1 LAMINA EXTERNA I. CAPSULE CLAUSTRUM _-' VENA TERMINA LIS - INTER VENTRICU- LAR FORAMEN (MONRO I) ANTERIOR PERFOR- ATED SUBSTANCE LONGITUDINAL FISSURE CORPUS CALLOSUM ANTERIOR CORNU OF ^ LATERAL VENTRICLE CBORIOID PLEXUS OF LATERAL VENTRICLE SEPTUM PELLUCID I'M COLUMNS OF FORNIX LATERAL FISSURE (STLVII) OPTIC TRACT INFERIOR COMMISSURE (GUDDENI) of the anterior perforated substance and with the lenticular nucleus at the region of its junction with the latter. Above and posteriorly it gradually becomes thinner, and finally disappears in the white substance about it. In origin it is thought to be a detached portion of the cortical grey substance of the insula. The amygdaloid nucleus (nucleus amygdala?) is represented by the amygdaloid tubercle, which has already been described in the extremity of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle (figs. 614 and 637). It is an almond-shaped mass of cells joined to the tail of the caudate nucleus, continuous above with the putamen and anteriorly with the cortex of the temporal lobe. Apparently the chief connection of the amygdaloid nucleus is with the anterior perforated substance, and this by way of the stria terminalis oj the thalamus. The longitudinal fibres coursing in this bundle for the most part arise in the nucleus. Thence they pass backwards in the roof of the inferior cornu, then curve upwards and anteriorly just outside the pulvinar of the thalamus, and run in the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle along the line of the genu of the internal capsule, forming the boundary between the thalamus and the caudate nucleus (figs. 614 and 638). Upon reaching the anterior commissure, the fibres turn ventrally and disperse, and are said to terminate in the anterior perforated substance. The amygdaloid