THE THORACIC SYMPATHETIC 1009 sympathetic fibres); (3) fibres which pass dorsalwards into the posterior primary divisions of the nerves; (4) fibres which pass outwards in the anterior primary divisions of the nerves. The last two groups of fibres are distributed to the blood- vessels of the body-walls, to the skin-glands, and to the muscles of the hairs of the body. The peripheral branches form two series, an upper and a lower. Those of the upper series pass from the upper four or five ganglia ventralwards and inwards to be distributed as follows:— (1) Pulmonary branches which accompany the intercostal arteries towards their aortic origin without forming plexuses around them, and pass to the posterior pul- monary plexus (fig. 720). (2) Aortic branches, some of which arise directly from the ganglia and some from the pulmonary branches, and unite with branches from the cardiac plexus and from the splanchnic nerves to surround the aorta as the thoracic aortic plexus (fig. 720). This plexus accompanies the aorta into the abdomen and there joins with the coeliac (solar) plexus. (3) (Esophageal branches join with the oesophageal plexus of the vagus. (4) Vertebral branches, some of which pass with the nutrient arteries into the bodies of the vertebra? and some of which pass to the median line and there anastomose with similar branches from the opposite side (commissural branches). The peripheral branches forming the lower series consist largely of efferent fibres from the spinal nerves, which pass through the ganglia and reinforce the sympathetic filaments proper. Thus composed, these branches run ventralwards and inwards on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae and unite to form the splanchnic nerves which supply the abdominal organs. (1) The great splanchnic nerve may be formed by branches from all the thoracic ganglia from the fifth to the tenth inclusive, or it may receive fibres from only two or three of these ganglia (fig. 719). It is usually formed by branches from the fifth to the tenth. The superior branch, usually the largest, receives smaller inferior branches from the lower ganglia as it passes downwards on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae in the posterior mediastinum. The nerve enters the abdomi- nal cavity by passing through the eras of the diaphragm, and joins the upper end of the cceliac (semilunar) ganglion of the cceliac (solar) plexus. Near the bottom of the eleventh or the top of the twelfth thoracic vertebra there is formed on the nerve the splanchnic ganglion. Filaments from the nerve and from this ganglion pass along the intercostal arteries to the aorta, oesophagus, and the thoracic duct, and some fibres from the right side pass to the vena azygos (major). Sometimes this nerve divides into two cords, giving off numerous branches which anastomose with each other and with the small splanchnic nerve to form a plexus, in the meshes of which are found some small ganglia. (2) The lesser splanchnic nerve receives fibres from the ninth and tenth ganglia. Its course is similar to that of the great splanchnic nerve (fig. 719), but on a posterior plane, and it terminates in the cceliac (solar) or renal plexuses. (3) The least splanchnic nerve, not always present, arises from the last thoracic ganglion or sometimes from the small splanchnic nerve. It passes through the eras of the diaphragm and ends in the renal plexus. Construction of the thoracic portion of the cord.—The majority of the sympathetic fibres which pass from the central nervous system enter the thoracic por- tion of the sympathetic trunk; some end there in ramifications around the cells of its ganglia, while others merely pass through on their way to more distant termina- tions. With regard to those which terminate in the ganglia, it has been shown that in the dog and cat many end in the ganglion stellatum, which corresponds with the last cervical and the upper three or four thoracic ganglia in man. Among these are the fibres conveying secretory impulses to the sweat-glands of the upper limb, which emerge from the spinal cord in the thoracic nerves from the sixth to the ninth, and, in the dog, vaso-constrictor fibres of the pulmonary blood-vessels which leave the spinal cord in the second to the seventh thoracic nerves. Other fibres which terminate around the thoracic sympathetic ganglion-cells in the dog and cat are the vaso-constrictor fibres for the upper limbs and some of the vaso-constrictor fibres for the lower limbs. Of the fibres which traverse the thoracic portion of the sympathetic trunk to gain more distant terminations, some ascend to the cervical region (p. 1007), others descend 64