THE EXTERNAL ACOUSTIC MEATUS 1051 Ligaments and muscles.—The auricle is attached to the side of the head by the skin, by the continuity of its cartilage with that of the acoustic meatus, and by certain extrinsic ligaments and muscles. Three ligaments may be distinguished in the con- nective tissue:—The anterior ligament, stretching from the zygoma to the helix and tragus; the superior ligament, from the superior margin of the bony external acoustic meatus to the spine of the helix; and the posterior ligament, from the mas- toid process to the eminence of the concha. There are also three extrinsic muscles, the anterior, superior, and posterior auricular (see p. 333, fig. 306). Six intrinsic muscles are distinguished. These are poorly marked in man and vary much in de- velopment. Upon the lateral surface (fig. 746) the helicis major stretches from the spine of the helix to the ventral superior margin of the helix; the helicis minor over- lies the crus helicis; the tragicus runs vertically upon the tragus; and the anti- tragicus stretches from the antitragus to the cauda helicis. Upon the medial sur- face (fig. 746) the transversus auriculae stretches between the eminences of concha and scapha,andthe obliquus between the eminences of the concha and the triangular fossa. Vessels and Nerves The arteries are the auricular branch of the posterior auricular and the anterior auricular branches of the superficial temporal (pp. 526 and 527). The veins are the anterior auricular vein of the posterior facial (temporal) and the auricular branches of the posterior auricular (pp. 648 and 649). The latter sometimes join the transverse (lateral) sinus through the mastoid emissary vein. The lymphatics empty into the anterior and posterior auricular lymph-nodes (p. 707). The sensory nerves of the auricle are the branches of the great auricular, small occipital (p. 913, fig. 708), and auriculotemporal (p. 971, fig. 708). The muscles are supplied by the posterior auric- ular branch of the facial (p. 977, fig. 705). Variations There are many variations in the size, shape, and conformation of the auricle and in the cephalo-auricular angle. These are associated not only with differences in sex, age, and race, but are also found in individuals of the same family. THE EXTERNAL ACOUSTIC MEATUS The external acoustic (auditory) meatus extends medially and somewhat ven- trally from the concha to the tympanic membrane (fig. 747). It is about twenty- five mm. (1 in.) long, and, owing to the obliquity of the tympanic membrane, its ventral and inferior wall is slightly longer than the dorsal and superior. It consists of a lateral cartilaginous and a medial osseous portion. The canal describes an S-shaped curve in both horizontal and vertical directions, and is convex ventrally and interiorly towards its auricular end, and concave ventrally and interiorly towards its tympanic end. The irregularly elliptical lumen has its long axis vertical at the auric- ular, but nearly horizontal at its tympanic end, and it is constricted at about its centre, and also near the tympanum. Relations.—The anterior wall is in relation with the condyle of the mandible medially, and with the parotid gland laterally; the inferior wall is closely bound to the parotid gland; and the -posterior wall of the bony part is separated by only a thin plate of bone from the mastoid cells. The superior wall is separated at its medial end by a thin plate of bone from the epitympanic recess, and laterally a thicker layer of bone separates it from the cranial cavity. Structure of the meatus.—The walls of the meatus are formed laterally of fibro-cartilage and medially of bone. The cartilage is folded upon itself to form a groove, the deficient and dorsal part of which is completed by dense connective tissue, the groove being thus converted into a canal. Medially, the cartilage forms about one-third of the circumference; laterally, two-thirds. Two fissures or incisures (incisures of Santorini) usually occur in its anterior wall (fig. 746). Laterally the cartilage is directly continuous with the cartilage of the auricle and medially it is firmly connected with the lateral lip of the osseous portion. The osseous portion forms slightly more than half the canal, and is formed by the tympanic portion of the temporal bone; it is described in connection with that bone (p. 63). The skin of the meatus forms a continuous covering for the canal and tympanic membrane. It is thick in the cartilaginous, but very thin in the bony, part of the meatus, especially near the tympanic end, where it is tightly bound to the periosteum.