ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1056 contents of the tympanic cavity, and is continuous anteriorly with the mucosa of the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube) and posteriorly with that of the tympanic (mastoid) antrum and mastoid cells. It is a thin, transparent, vascular membrane intimately united to the periosteum. As it passes from the walls to the contents of the tympanic cavity, besides covering the ligaments of the malleus and the incus and the tendons of the tensor tympani and stapedius muscles, it forms a number of special folds and pouches. The anterior malleolar fold is reflected from the tympanic membrane over the anterior process and ligament of the malleus and the adjacent part of the chorda tympani, and the posterior malleolar fold, stretching between the manu- brium and the posterior tympanic wall, surrounds the lateral ligament of the malleus and the posterior part of the chorda tympani. Each of these folds presents inferiorly a concave free border, and between them and the tympanic membrane are two blind pouches, the anterior and posterior malleolar recesses or pouches of Troltsch. Connected with the posterior recess is a third cul-de-sac, the superior recess of the tympanic membrane, or pouch of Prussak, situated between the pars flaccida of the tympanic membrane and the neck of the malleus. Its floor, which is formed by the lateral process of the malleus, is lower than its outlet and, therefore, it may serve Fig. 751.—Medial Surface of Right Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged.) Superior malleolar ligament INCUS HEAD OF MALLEUS CHORDA TYMPANI NERVE Tendon of tensor tympani MANUBRIUM OF MALLEUS Tensor tympani muscle TUBA AUDITIVA Posterior ligament of incus POSTERIOR PORTION OF EPITYMPANIC RECESS BASE OF STAPES LENTICULAR PROCESS OF INCUS Posterior portion of membrana tympani as a pocket in which pus or other fluid may accumulate. A somewhat variable fold of mucosa, the plica incudis, passes from the roof of the tympanic cavity to the body and short process of the incus. The body and short process of the incus, the head of the malleus, and this fold incompletely separate off a lateral cupular portion of the epitympanic recess, and a stapedial fold stretches from the posterior wall of the tympanic cavity and surrounds the stapes, including the obturator membrane, which stretches between its crura. Other inconstant folds have been described. The mu- cosa of the tympanic cavity, except over the tympanic membrane, promontory, and ossicles, is covered by a columnar ciliated epithelium. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the tympanic cavity are the anterior tympanic from the internal maxillary artery (p. 529, fig. 413), the stylo-mastoid from the posterior auricular artery (p. 526), the superficial petrosal from the middle meningeal artery (p. 529), the inferior tympanic from the ascending pharyngeal (p. 518, fig. 408), and the carotico-tympanic branch from the internal carotid. The veins empty into the superior petrosal sinus and into the pos- terior facial (temporo-maxillary) vein (p. 648). The nerves are the tympanic plexus formed by the tympanic branch of the glossopharyngeal (p. 981), and the inferior and superior carotico- tympanic nerves from the internal carotid plexus of the sympathetic (p. 1005). The small super- ficial petrosal nerve takes its origin from the tympanic plexus, and the chorda tympani crosses the tympanic cavity from the dorsal to the ventral wall (p. 977, figs. 704 and 751).