THE THORACIC NERVES 931 Table Showing the Relations of the Muscles of the Upper Extremity to the Cervical Nerves—(Continued) Nerves Contributing. Muscles. 5, 6, 7, and 8 C Pectoralis major Dorsal inteross. Palmar " g q Add. pollicis " pollicis trans. Flex, pollicis brev. (deep) Pectoralis minor Flex, digit, subl. Lumbricals Flex, carpi ulnaris " digit, prof. " pollicis long. Pronator quadratus 7, 8 C, and 1 T. 8 C. and IT. Nerves to Muscles. Ext. and int. ant. thoracic Ulnar Int. ant. thoracic Median " and ulnar Ulnar and median Median THE THORACIC NERVES The anterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves, with the exception of the first, retain, in the simplest form, the characters of anterior primary divisions of the typical spinal nerve. They do not form plexuses, but remain distinct from each other. Each divides into an easily recognisable lateral or dorsal and anterior or ventral branch (figs. 685 and 686), and they are not distributed to the limbs. The first, second, and last thoracic nerves, on account of their peculiarities, require separate description. The remainder are separable into two groups, an upper and a lower The upper group consists of four nerves, the third to the sixth inclusive, which are distributed entirely to the thoracic wall. The lower group contains five nerves, the seventh to the eleventh inclusive, which are distributed partly to the thoracic and partly to the abdominal wall. The upper group is therefore purely thoracic in dis- tribution, and the lower thoraco-abdominal. The first thoracic nerve is connected with the first thoracic sympathetic ganglion, and it frequently receives a communication from the second nerve. It is distrib- uted chiefly to the upper limb. Opposite the superior costo-transverse ligament of the second rib it divides into a larger and a smaller branch; the larger passes upwards and outwards, between the apex of the pleura and the neck of the first rib, and on the outer side of the superior intercostal artery, to the root of the neck, where it joins the brachial plexus. The smaller branch continues along the inter- costal space, below the first rib and between the intercostal muscles in which, as a rule, all its fibres terminate. However, in some instances it gives off a lateral cutan- eous branch which connects with the medial brachial (lesser internal) cutaneous nerve and with the intercosto-brachial nerve in the axillary fossa; and occasionally it terminates in an anterior cutaneous branch at the anterior extremity of the first inter- costal space. The second thoracic nerve, as it lies between the pleura and the superior costo- transverse ligament of the third rib, gives a branch to the first nerve, then it pierces the posterior intercostal membrane and passes between the external and internal intercostal muscles in the second intercostal space. In the posterior part of the space it sends branches backwards, through the external intercostal muscle, to supply the second levator costse and the serratus posterior superior, and then it divides into a lateral and an anterior branch. The two branches run forward together to the mid- axillary line, where the lateral branch pierces the external intercostal muscle and passes between two digitations of the serratus anterior (magnus) into the axillary fossa; the anterior branch enters the substance of the internal intercostal muscle.