THE PROSENCEPHALON 823 their course, in most intimate association with the nuclei of origin of the nerves supplying the eye muscles, suggests what is probably their most important func- tion, viz., that of associating these nuclei with each other and of bearing to them fibres from the nuclei of the other cranial nerves necessary for the co-ordinate action of the muscles of the optic apparatus associated with the functions of these other nerves. Fibres from each medial longitudinal fasciculus terminate either by collaterals or terminal arborisations about the cells of the motor nuclei of all the cranial nerves, and each nucleus probably contributes fibres to it. It also receives fibres from the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves. Thus it contains fibres coursing in both directions, and, while it is continually losing fibres by termination, it is being con- tinually recruited and so maintains a practically uniform bulk. Thus, a given lesion never results in its total degeneration. Many of the fibres coursing in it arise from the opposite side of the mid-line. A special contribution of fibres of this kind is re- ceived by way of the fountain decussation from the nucleus of the superior colliculus of the opposite side. As noted above, it is in part continuous into the spinal cord. It receives some fibres by way of the posterior commissure of the prosencephalon from a small nucleus common to it and the posterior commissure situated in the superior extension of the central grey substance of the mesencephalon. Van Gehuch- ten and Edinger describe for it a special nucleus situated beyond this commissure in the hypothalamic region. This nucleus may be explained as receiving impulses from the structures of the prosencephalon which are distributed to the structures below by way of the fasciculus longitudinalis medialis. As frequently realized in the above, the structures of the mesencephalon are both overlapped by, and are of necessity functionally continuous with, the structures of the next and most anterior division of the encephalon, the prosencephalon. THE PROSENCEPHALON The prosencephalon or fore-brain includes those portions of the encephalon derived from the walls of the anterior of the three embryonic brain-vesicles. In its adult architecture it consists of—(1) the diencephalon (interbrain), comprising the thalamencephalon or the thalami and the structures derived from and immediately adjacent to them, and, in addition, the mammillary portion of the hypothalamic region; (2) the telencephalon (end-brain), comprising the optic portion of the hypothalamic region and the cerebral hemispheres proper. The last mentioned consist of the entire cerebral cortex or superficial mantle of grey substance, including the rhinencephalon, and also the basal ganglia or buried nuclei (corpus striatum), to- gether with the tracts of white substance connecting and associating the different regions of the hemispheres with each other and with the structures of the other divisions of the central system. EXTERNAL FEATURES OF THE PROSENCEPHALON The diencephalon.—The basal surface of this division of the brain consists of only the mammillary portion of the hypothalamic region. This comprises—(1) the cor- pora mammillaria (albicantia), the two rounded projections situated in the ante- rior part of the interpeduncular fossa, and (2) the posterior perforated substance or the small triangle of grey substance forming the floor of the posterior part of the third ventricle, and which represents numerous openings for the passage of branches of the posterior cerebral arteries (fig. 616). The hypothalamic portions of the cere- bral peduncles might be included. The structures of the optic or remaining portion of the hypothalamus belong to the telencephalon. The dorsal surface of the diencephalon is completely overlapped and hidden by the telencephalon, and covered by the intervening ingrowth of the cerebral meninges, the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle (velum interpositum). These removed, it is seen that the thalami are by far the most conspicuous objects of the diencephalon. They, together with the parts developed in connection with them, are distinguished as the thalamencephalon. The thalamencephalon consists of—(1) the thalami; (2) the metathalamus or geniculate bodies; and (3) the epithalamus, comprising the