813 STRUCTURE OF THE PONS lateral margin of the section external to the brachium conjunctivum. The mesen- cephalic root of the trigeminus occurs in the dorso-lateral margin of transverse sec- tions through this region, and this is the only one of the cranial nerves represented here. The transverse fibres of the ventral part of the section (pons proper), and there- fore the brachia pontis, consist of fibres coursing in opposite directions. Many are fibres which are outgrowths of the Purkinje cells of the cortex of the cerebellar hemispheres, and pass either directly to the hemisphere of the opposite side or turn upwards in the raphe to course longitudinally in the brain-stem both towards the spinal cord and towards the mesencephalon. Others terminate in the grey substance of the pons. Others are fibres which arise in the grey substance of the pons and pass to the cerebellar hemispheres, and still others are the cerebro-pontile fibres, chiefly from the temporal lobes. The grey substance of the pons (nuclei pontis) occurs quite abundantly. At the inferior border of the pons it is found concentrated about the then more ac- cumulated bundles of the emerging pyramids, and serial sections show it to be a Fig. 606.—Diagram showing Connections of the Fibres of the Pons. The plane of the section is obliquely transverse or parallel with the direction of the brachia pontis. LONGITUDINAL (PYRAMIDAL) FASCICULI direct upward continuation of the arcuate nuclei of the medulla oblongata below. Higher up it is dispersed throughout the central area in the interspaces between the transverse pontile and longitudinal pyramidal fasciculi. A large portion of the nerve- fibres passing through it are thought to be interrupted by its cells, which thus serve as links in some of the neurone chains represented by the fibres of the pons. Of the more important of such relations, the following are said to exist:— (1) Fibres which arise in the cortex of one cerebellar hemisphere and terminate about cells of the nucleus pontis of the same and opposite side of the mid-line. These cells give off axones which pass to the other cerebellar hemisphere. In this relation the nuclei pontis are analogous to the arcuate nuclei, save that the cerebellar fibres interrupted in the former are connected with the cerebellum by way of the brachia pontis instead of the restiform bodies. (2) Certain of the descending cerebro-pontile fibres terminate about cells of the nuclei pontis. Such cells give off fibres which probably, for the most part, pass to the cerebellar hemispheres, the impulses from the cerebral hemisphere of one side being conveyed chiefly to the opposite cerebellar hemisphere.