THE FOURTH VENTRICLE 795 thin lamina of white substance, the anterior medullary velum, thickened at the. sides by the brachia conjunctiva. At its extreme mesencephalic end the anterior med- ullary velum is slightly thickened by a continuation of the white substance of the inferior quadrigeminate bodies, forming the frenulum veli. The inferior portion of the_jvelum is continuous with the white substance of the cerebellum, and is covered by the Rngula cerebelli, an extension of the cortical substance of the superior vermis (fig. 582): The roof of the middle portion of the fourth ventricle is formed by the cerebellum proper, the vermis and the mesial portions of the hemispheres. The nervous por- tion of the roof terminates with the posterior medullary velum, a thin, narrow band of white substance which is the continuation of the peduncles of the floccular lobes, and which connects them at the mid-line with the nodule of the inferior vermis. The roof of the inferior portion of the fourth ventricle is non-nervous. It is the tela chorioidea of the fourth ventricle, a semilunar lamina consisting of the epithelial lining of the ventricle, reinforced by a continuation of the connective tissue of the pia mater and the adjacent portion of the arachnoid. Along the line of its attachment to the surface of the medulla it is thickened, and in sections this portion bears the name ligula {taenia ventriculi quarti). The thickened portion spanning the tip of the calamus scriptorius is termed the obex. The width of the ventricular cavity is extended outwards from its widest part into the lateral recesses, narrow pockets on each side and around the upper parts of the restiform bodies. In the mid-line of the lower part of the tela chorioidea there is a more or less well-marked opening, the foramen of Magendie (medial aperture of the fourth ventricle), which is a lymph- channel connecting the cavity of the ventricle with the subarachnoid space. There is a similar opening from each lateral recess (lateral apertures). ' The chorioid plexuses of the fourth ventricle consist of highly vascular, lobular, villus-like processes of the ventricular surface (pia mater) of the tela chorioidea! They are reddish in the fresh specimen, and the epithelial lining of the ventricle is closely adapted to the unevennesses of their surfaces. From below they run as two parallel masses on either side of the mid-line, which become united above, and then are separated again into two lateral processes which bend at right angles and pro- ject into the lateral recesses. Portions frequently protrude through the three open- ings of the ventricle into the subarachnoid space. The floor of the fourth ventricle (fossa rhomboidea) —This is thrown into em- inences and depressions indicative of the internal structures of the brain-stem sub- jacent to it. Its inferior portion is the dorsal surface of the upper portion of the