THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 894 The cerebro-spinal fluid.—The subarachnoid cavity is the great lymph-space of the central nervous system. That of the spinal region is directly continuous into that of the cranium, and the fluid contained communicates freely with that in the ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the medulla and spinal cord by way of the foramen of Magendie or aperture into the fourth ventricle. In addition, there is possible an interchange of fluid between the lateral ventricle and the subarachnoid cavity of the base of the brain by diffusion through the thin floor of the chorioid fissure. The arachnoid throughout is not a membrane sufficiently compact to seriously oppose diffusion between the fluid contained in its cavity and that contained in the subdural cavity, and the endothelium covering it probably even facilitates such activities. The cerebro-spinal fluid occupying the cavities is a transparent fluid of a slight yellow tinge, characteristic of the lymph in other lymph-spaces of the body. It is not very great in amount, probably never exceeding 200 c.c. in normal conditions. It is greatest in amount in old age, when the cavities are larger, due to atrophy and shrinkage of the nervous tissues. It collects from the lymph spaces in the meninges, and from exudation through the walls of the vascular plexuses and sinuses of the system it bathes. Its amount may be temporarily increased by a period of increased blood-pressure in the cranial vessels. Pressure due to its abundance may Fig. 665.—Diagram of Transverse Section of Upper Thoracic Region showing the Relations of the Spinal Meninges and their Cavities. dura mater ,' arachnoidea 1 i pi a mater - , > spinal artery EPIDURAL TRABECULE TO PERIOSTEUM be relieved by diffusion through the membranes containing it, and especially through the villi of the Pacchionian bodies into the venous sinuses and lacuna and thence into the venous system through the internal jugular veins. The Pia Mater The pia mater, the third of the meninges, is a thin membrane which envelopes and closely adheres to the entire central nervous system and sends numerous pro- cesses into its substance. It likewise contributes the most proximal and compact portion of the sheaths worn by the nerve-roots in their passage through the meningeal spaces. It is very vascular in that the superficial plexuses of blood-vessels of both the brain and spinal cord ramify in it as they give off the central branches into the nervous substance. The structure and arrangement of the membrane vary somewhat in the cranial and spinal regions. The spinal pia mater consists of two layers, an inner and an outer. It is thicker and more compact than that of the encephalon, due to the extra development of its outer layer, which is in the form of a strong, fibrous layer with the fibres arranged