THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 932 The lateral branch, the intercosto-brachial {inter costo-humeral), may divide into a small anterior and a large posterior division, or the anterior division may be absent. In either case the lateral branch anastomoses with the medial brachial (lesser internal) cutaneous nerve, and usually with the lateral branch of the third intercostal nerve; it also anastomoses with the lateral branch of the first nerve, if the latter is present. After forming these anastomoses it passes out of the axillary fossa, pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the integument in the upper and posterior half of the arm. It also gives off a few filaments which terminate in the skin over the axillary border of the scapula. The size of the intercosto-brachial nerve and the extent of its distribution are usually in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves of the upper arm, especially the middle brachial (lesser internal) cutaneous. When the latter nerve is absent, the intercosto-brachial usually takes its place. The course and distribution of the anterior branch, when it is present, being similar to the course and distribution of the anterior branches of the next four nerves, do not require a separate description. The thoracic intercostal nerves.—The third, fourth, fifth, and sixth thoracic nerves, in the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces, give muscular branches to the Fig. 685.—Diagram of the Distribution of a Typical Thoracic Nerve. INTERNAL BRANCH Ijongissimus dorsi Semispinals dorsi Multifldus spinas Superior costo-transverse ligament DORSAL ROOT -| ~j VENTRAL ROOT-J RECURRENT BRANCH SYMPATHETIC GANGLION MEDIAL BRANCH BRANCH TO AORTA CEsophagus Interna! mammary artery Transverse thoracic muscle IHo-eostalis dorsi EXTERNAL BRANCH POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISION ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISION Internal intercostal muscle —1 External intercostal muscle LATERAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH ANTERIOR BRANCH Anterior intercostal membrane levatores costarum, the second and sometimes the third also giving branches to the serratus posterior superior. They pass forwards a short distance between the ex- ternal and internal intercostals, giving twigs to these muscles, and divide into two branches, lateral and anterior. The lateral cutaneous branches continue forwards between the intercostal muscles, and, near the mid-axillary line, pierce the external intercostals and serratus anterior (magnus) and divide into two branches, posterior and anterior. The pos- terior branches pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi to supply the skin in the lower part of the scapular region. The anterior branches increase in size from above downwards. They pass around the outer border of the great pectoral muscle, and are distributed to the integument over the front of the thorax and mamma, sending filaments, the lateral mammary branches, into the latter organ. The lowest two also supply twigs to the upper digitations of the external oblique muscle. The anterior branches run obliquely forwards and inwards, through the sub- stance of the internal intercostal muscles, reaching the deep surface of these muscles at the outer extremity of the costal cartilages (fig. 685). They continue forwards between these muscles and the pleura, pass in front of the internal mammary artery,