956 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM Table Showing Relations of Muscles of Lower Extremity to Nerves of Lumbar and Sacral Plexuses—(Continued) Nerves Contributing. Muscles. Nerves. Ext. hall. long. Deep peroneal " digit. " " " " digit, brev. " " 4,5 L., and IS j Tibialis anterior " " Peroneus tertius " " longus Superficial peroneal " brevis " peroneal PUDENDAL PLEXUS The pudendal plexus, like the parts of the lumbo-sacral plexus already described, varies in its formation. The accompanying tables show the extreme range of varia- tion and the common method of formation of the large nerve of this plexus in each of the three classes. COMPOSITION OF THE NERVES OF THE PUDENDAL PLEXUS Range of Variation Nerve. Proximal. Ordinary. Distal. Pudic nerve 1,2,3, 4,5 S. 1,2, 3,4 S. 2, 3, 4, 5 S. Common Composition Nerve. Proximal. Ordinary. Distal. Pudic nerve 2, 3 S. 2, 3, 4 S. 3, 4 S. The pudendal plexus is commonly formed by part of the anterior divisions of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. It lies in the lower part of the back of the pelvis, and gives off visceral, muscular, and terminal branches. Visceral branches (pelvic splanchnics) arise from the third and fourth sacral nerves especially, and communicate with branches of the sympathetic plexus. They are distributed either directly or through this plexus to the pelvic viscera (figs. 688, 692, 693). The middle hsemorrhoidal nerves pass to the rectum, the inferior vesical nerves to the bladder, and, in the female, the vaginal nerves to the vagina (see Sympathetic System). Muscular branches are given by the fourth sacral nerve to the coccygeus, levator ani, and sphincter ani externus (figs. 688, 692). The nerves to the two former muscles pass into the pelvic surfaces of the muscles, but that to the last named muscle, called the perineal branch, passes backwards be- tween the levator ani and the coccygeus, or through the posterior fibres of the latter muscle, into the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and, in addition to sup- plying the sphincter ani, it gives cutaneous filaments to the skin between the anus and the coccyx. Terminal branches.—The pudic nerve (n. pudendus) rises usually from the anterior primary divisions of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves (fig. 692). It emerges from the pelvis below the piriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, lying to the inner side of the internal pudic artery (fig. 693), and accompanies the artery, through the small sciatic foramen, into Alcock's canal in the obturator fascia on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, where it terminates by dividing into three branches, the inferior hsemorrhoidal, the perineal, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The inferior haemorrhoidal nerves frequently arise independently from the third and fourth sacral nerves, pierce the inner wall of Alcock's canal, and pass for- wards and inwards through the ischio-rectal fat to supply the sphincter ani externus and adjacent skin. They anastomose with branches of the perineal nerve. The perineal nerve runs forwards for a short distance in Alcock's canal and divides into a deep and a superficial branch. The deep branch breaks up into fila- ments, one or two of which pierce the inner wall of the canal and pass inwards to the anterior fibres of the sphincter and levator ani. The remaining part of the nerve pierces the base of the uro-genital trigone (triangular ligament), and enters the super- ficial pouch of the urethral triangle, where it is distributed to the bulb of the urethra,