THE TONGUE 1063 rated in its anterior two-thirds from the inferior surface by the lateral margins and apex. A muscular body is attached posteriorly and inferiorly at the root. The dorsum (fig. 759) is marked in its anterior two-thirds by a slight longitudinal groove, the median sulcus, and just beyond the dorsal end of this there is usually a small blind pouch, the foramen caecum (Morgagni), which represents the superior end of the thyreo-glossal duct. Two slight grooves run ventrally and laterally from the foramen caecum, and together form a V-shaped groove, the terminal sulcus, which marks the point of union of the body of the tongue, derived from the tuberculum impar, and the root, derived from the anterior ends of the second and third branchial arches. It also marks a division of the dorsum into a ventral or oral portion and a dorsal or pharyngeal part. The mucous membrane covers the whole of the free surface of the tongue (fig. 759). Dorsally, in the middle line, is the prominent median glosso-epiglottic fold, and on each side of this the more rounded lateral glosso-epiglottic folds, connecting the tongue and the epiglottis. Between the median and lateral fold on each side there is a shallow fossa, the epiglottic vallecula. Laterally the mucous Fig. 760.—Superior Surface of the Tongue. (Modified from Spalteholz.) membrane of the dorsal portion is reflected over the tonsil and palatine arches, and ventrally it is reflected over the lateral margins and apex to the inferior surface, from which it passes to the floor of the mouth and thence to the gums of the lower jaw. Upon the inferior surface of the tongue, near the tip, is a median depression (fig. 760), from which a prominent median fold of mucous membrane, the frenulum, stretches to the gums. On each side of the frenulum, and close to it, at about the junction of the inferior surface of the tongue and the floor of the mouth, is a rounded nodule, the sublingual caruncle, upon which the submaxillary duct opens. Running dorsally and laterally from each caruncle is a long, rounded ridge, the sub- lingual fold, beneath which is situated the sublingual gland, and about midway be- tween the frenulum and the lateral margins of the tongue are two ragged folds of mucous membrane, the fimbriate folds, which converge ventrally. Between these folds and the frenulum the ranine veins are seen beneath the mucous membrane. Papillae of the tongue.—Over the oral portion of the dorsum of the tongue the red mucous membrane is somewhat whitened by the thickening of the epithelium, which produces the numerous lingual papillas '(fig. 759). Four kinds can be dis-