EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 1027 already been described. Its posterior surface exhibits numerous radial folds run- ning from the ciliary processes to near the pupillary border; a thick layer of black pigment covers it and curls around its inner edge, so as to come into view all around the pupil as seen from in front. The peripheral or ciliary border of the iris is con- tinuous with the front of the ciliary body, where it also receives fibres from the ligamentum pectinatum iridis; in other respects the iris is quite free, merely resting on the front of the lens-capsule near the pupil. Its stroma is spongy in character, being made up of vessels covered by a thick adventitia, running from the periphery to the pupillary border, with interspaces filled by branching pigment cells, which are particularly abundant near the front surface. Deep in the stroma, running around near the pupillary border, we find a broad flat band of smooth muscle-fibres, constituting the sphincter pupillae or sphincter iridis. Immediately behind the Fig. 727.—Diagrammatic Horizontal Section op Eyeball and Orbit. (After Fuchs, much modified.) Periorbita green; muscle-fascia red; Tenon's capsule yellow. Lower lachrymal punctum Cornea Opening of Meibomian gland Caruncle Inner palpebral ligament Anterior chamber Iris Corona ciliaris Orbiculus ciliaris Chorioid with vence vorticosa Outer cheek ligament Fovea centralis retinae Muscle-fascia Orbital blood-vessel Central retinal vessels in optic nerve External rectus muscle NASAL PROCESS OF UPPER JAW Anterior limb of inner palpebral ligament Lachrymal sac Posterior limb of inner palpebral ligament with Horner's muscle springing from it LACHRYMAL BONE Process of muscle-fas- cia to under surface of conjunctiva Or a serrata Tendon of insertion of internal rectus Inner check ligament Periorbita ORBITAL PLATE OF ETHMOID BONE Posterior lamina of musele-faBcia lined by Tenon's capsule Internal rectus muscle OPTIC NER VE vascular tissue lies a thin membrane, consisting of fine, straight fibres running radially from the ciliary border to just behind the sphincter. The nature of these fibres was long in dispute, but they are now accepted as being undoubtedly smooth muscular—the dilator pupillae. The sphincter pupillae and the ciliary muscle are supplied by the third nerve by way of the ciliary ganglion. The dilator pupillae is supplied by sympathetic fibres, which have their origin from the cells of the superior cervical ganglion. Thence they ascend in the carotid and cavernous plexuses, and join the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, passing to the eyeball by way of the long ciliary nerves. The white rami fibres associated with these fibres leave the spinal cord by the motor roots of the first two or three thoracic nerves, and ascend the sympathetic trunk to the superior cervical ganglion without interruption. Posteriorly the iris is lined by the pigment already mentioned, which really