793 THE CEREBELLUM inferior, middle, and superior. The three peduncles of each side come together at the level of the lower border of the pons, and the entering and emerging fibres of which they are composed become continuous with the central core of white substance of the cerebellar hemispheres. The restif orm body of the medulla oblongata is the inferior peduncle. It forms the lateral boundary of the inferior portion of the fourth ventricle, and upon reaching the level of the pons turns sharply backwards into the cerebellum. In the region of the turn it is encircled externally by fibres of the cochlear division of the eighth cranial nerve. It contains fibres, both ascending and descending, between the cerebellar cortex and the structures below the cerebellum:—(1) Fibres from the spinal cord including the lateral cerebello-spinal fasciculus (direct cerebellar tract) and probably a small proportion of the ascending fibres of the antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers' tract); (2) fibres from the olive of the same and opposite side of the medulla oblongata; (3) fibres from the nuclei of the funiculus gracilis and cuneatus of the same and opposite sides; (4) fibres to the olive of the opposite side; (5) fibres to the nuclei of the motor cranial nerves; (6) fibres descending to the ven- tral horn cells of the spinal cord. The ascending or afferent fibres of the cerebello- spinal and cerebello-olivary fasciculi are the principal components of the inferior peduncle. Of these, the fibres of the direct cerebellar tract terminate in the cortex of the superior vermis of both sides of the mid-line, but, for the most part, in that of the opposite side. The olivary fibres end in the cortex of both the superior vermis and the adjacent" cortex of the hemispheres, and some of them terminate in the nucleus dentatus. The brachium pontis or the middle peduncle is the largest of the three cerebellar peduncles. In it the pons fibres pass slightly downwards and into the cerebellar hemisphere, between the lips of the anterior part of the horizontal fissure, entering at the outer side of the inferior peduncle. It consists of the transverse fibres of the pons, and within the cerebellum its fibres are distributed in two main groups—the upper transverse fibres of the pons apparently pass downwards to radiate in the lower portion of the hemisphere, while the lower transverse fibres pass upwards and inwards to radiate in the superior part of the hemisphere and vermis. For the most part the fibres of the middle peduncle may be considered as commissural fibres, passing from one side of the cerebellum to the other. Each peduncle contains fibres coursing in opposite directions. Many of these fibres are interrupted in their course to the opposite side by cells scattered throughout the pons, nuclei -pontis, and, therefore, in each brachium pontis some of the fibres are processes of the cells of the cerebellum and course towards the opposite side, while others are processes of the cells of the pontine nuclei and course to the cerebellar hemisphere of the same side. Furthermore, there are evidences after degeneration that the brachium pontis also contains a few fibres from the cerebellum to the structures of the brain-stem and spinal cord. The brachium conjunctivum or superior cerebellar peduncle emerges from the cerebellum on the inner side of the brachium pontis. It also extends on the mesial side of the course of the restiform body. It forms the lateral boundary of the supe- rior portion of the fourth ventricle. Its transverse section appears semilunar in shape, with the concave side next to the cavity of the ventricle. The dorsal border which inclines towards the mid-line is connected with that of the corresponding peduncle of the opposite side by the anterior medullary velum, which thus roofs over the superior part of the fourth ventricle. The ventral border is distinguished from the pons by an open furrow or sulcus. The superior cerebellar peduncles are almost entirely efferent pathways as to the cerebellum, and form the chief connections between the cerebellum and the cerebrum. They arise almost wholly fromJhe_dentate_ nuclei. As they course forwards they slightly converge and disappear under the inferior quadrigeminate bodies. Here, in the tegmentum of the mesencephalon, they undergo an almost total decussation, and then the majority of the fibres of each peduncle, having thus crossed the mid- line, terminate in the red nucleus of the opposite side. The red nucleus lies in the tegmentum of the mesencephalon, below the superior quadrigeminate bodies, and therefore quite close to the decussation. The cells of the red nucleus, about which the fibres of the peduncle terminate, in their turn send processes (axones) into the prosencephalon, most of which enter the thalamus, but some pass under the thalamus to join the internal capsule.