THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 962 As they leave the nucleus the fibres of the oculo-motor nerve form a series of fasciculi which curve ventrally through the red nucleus and the medial part of the substantia nigra, to the oculo-motor sulcus on the inner surface of the cerebral peduncle, where they emerge in from six to fifteen small bundles which pierce the pia mater and collect into the trunk of the nerve. Immediately after its formation along the oculo-motor sulcus, the trunk of the nerve passes between the posterior cerebral and the superior cerebellar arteries, and, running downwards, forwards, and laterally in the posterior part of the cisterna basalis, it crosses the anterior part of the attached border of the tentorium cerebelli at the side of the dorsum sellse, and, piercing the arachnoid and the inner layer of the dura mater, it enters the wall of the cavernous sinus about midway between the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. Immedi- ately after its entry into the wall of the sinus it lies at a higher level than the fourth nerve, but the latter soon crosses on its outer side and gets above it, and directly afterwards the third nerve divides into a smaller superior and a larger inferior branch (fig. 701). Before its division it receives communications from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic about the internal carotid artery, and from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. Both branches proceed forwards, and the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, which has passed upwards, on the outer side of the inferior branch of the third nerve, lies between them. At the anterior end of the cavernous sinus the two branches pass through the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure, between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and enter the orbital cavity. In the orbit, the superior branch lies between the superior rectus and the optic nerve; it supplies the superior rectus and then turns round the inner border of that muscle and terminates in the levator palpebrse superioris. The inferior branch runs forwards, beneath the optic nerve, and divides into three branches which supply the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. The branch to the inferior oblique muscle is connected with the ciliary ganglion by a short thick offset, the short root of the ciliary ganglion, by mediation of which the oculo-motor nerve sends im- pulses to the ciliary muscle and the sphincter muscle of the iris. The inferior branch also gives some small twigs to the inferior rectus. The branches of the third nerve which supply the recti muscles enter the muscles on their ocular surfaces, but the branch to the inferior oblique muscle enters the posterior border of that muscle. Some of the fibres which spring from the medial portion of the oculo-motor nucleus do not pass into the nerve of the same side, but into that of the opposite side, and it is believed that they are distributed to the opposite internal rectus muscle. Other fibres which arise from the nucleus descend in the medial longitudinal fasciculus and either terminate about the cells of the nucleus of the facial or join the facial nerve, in which they pass to the upper part of the orbicularis oculi. Central Connections.—The nucleus of the third nerve is associated with the anterior portion of the soma?sthetic area and with the cortex about the visual area of the occipital lobe of the opposite side of the brain by the pyramidal fibres. It is probably associated with the cerebellum by the fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncles, and with the sensory nuclei of the other cranial nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus. THE FOURTH PAIR—THE TROCHLEAR NERVES The fibres of each fourth or trochlear nerve spring from the cells of a nucleus which lies in the grey substance of the floor of the aquseductus cerebri in line with the oculo-motor nucleus, but in the region of the inferior quadrigeminate bodies. As the fibres pass from their origins they run ventrally and laterally in the substance of the tegmentum for a short distance, then they curve medianwards and dorsalwards, and, in passing through the anterior end of the superior medullary velum they decussate totally with the fibres of the fourth nerve of the opposite side. After the decussation the fibres emerge from the surface of the superior medullary velum, at the side of the frenulum veli, usually in two small bundles, which pierce the pia mater and join together to form the slender trunk of the nerve. This trunk curves forwards and ventralwards to the base of the brain around the sides of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum and cerebral peduncle of the side opposite to that in which the nerve originates, running parallel with and between the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral arteries. As it reaches the base of the brain behind the optic tract the nerve enters the cisterna basalis, in which it runs forwards, immediately beneath or' piercing the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, to the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it pierces the arachnoid and the dura