1035 CAVITY OF THE ORBIT of the body of the sphenoid bone one or two millimetres in front of the origin of the internal rectus. The four recti muscles lie rather close to the corresponding orbital walls for the first half of their course, the superior rectus, however, being overlapped in part by the levator palpebral; they then turn towards the eyeball, running obliquely through the orbital fat, and are finally inserted by broad, thin tendons into the sclerotic in front of the equator. From their respective positions in the orbit, the axis of this cone of muscles is oblique to the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball. The thickest of these muscles is the internal rectus, next the external, then the inferior, and the superior rectus is the thinnest. As regards length, the muscular belly of the superior rectus has the longest course, and the others diminish in the order— internal, external, and inferior rectus. The external rectus is supplied by the sixth nerve. The other three recti muscles are all supplied by the third nerve. The levator palpebrae superioris courses along the roof of the orbit close to the periosteum for the greater part of its course, partially overlapping the superior Fig. 733.—Section through Contents of Right Orbit 8-11 mm. behind the Eyeball, viewed from Behind. (After Lange.) SUPRA ORBITAL NER VE Supraorbital artery Levator palpebras superioris muBcle Superior rectus muscle Superior oblique muscle NASO- CILIARY NERVES Internal rectus muscle Ophthalmic artery OPTIC NERVE Ciliary artery Central retinal artery Ciliary artery Inferior rectus muscle LACHRYMAL NER VE 1 Lachrymal / . artery Lachrymal vein Ophthalmic vein Ciliary artery External rectus muscle Ciliary artery THIRD NERVE (BRANCH TO INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE) rectus; it finally descends through the orbital fat, and widens out to be inserted into the root of the upper lid. It may be briefly described as being inserted in two distinct layers separated by a horizontal interval. The upper or anterior layer of insertion is fibrous, and passes in front of the tarsus, where it comes into relation with fibres of the orbicularis. The lower layer consists of smooth muscle (Miiller's superior tarsal muscle), and is inserted along the upper border of the tarsus. The levator has also connections with the sheath of the superior rectus. These dif- ferent insertions of the muscle will be referred to later along with the description of the orbital fasciae and of the upper eyelid. It gets its nervous supply from the third nerve, but the smooth muscle developed in its lower layer of insertion is sup- plied by the sympathetic nervous system. As its name expresses, its action is to raise the upper lid and to support it while the eye is open. The superior oblique runs forwards close to the inner part of the orbital roof until it reaches the fossa trochlearis near the internal angular process, where it becomes tendinous and passes through a fibro-cartilaginous pulley attached to the