S22 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM substance by a well-marked band of fibres, the stratum album profundum. This con- tains fibres from two sources:—(1) fibres from the lateral and medial lemnisci, which approach the nucleus from the under side, some to terminate within it, others to cross to the nucleus of the opposite side; (2) fibres which arise within the nucleus and course ventrally around the central grey substance, both to terminate in the nucleus of the oculomotor nerve and to join the medial longitudinal fasciculus and pass probably to the nuclei of the trochlear and abducens. The optic fibres proper approach the nucleus by way of the superior brachium, and are dispersed directly among its cells; only a small proportion of them cross over to terminate in the nucleus of the opposite side. They consist of two varieties:—(1) retinal fibres which arise in the ganglion- cell layer of the retina and enter the superior brachium at its junction with the lateral root of the optic tract, and (2) fibres from the visual area of the occipital lobe of the cerebral hemisphere. Sometimes the optic fibres in their course within the nucleus of the superior colliculus form a more or less evident stratum near the stratum album profundum. This is known as the stratum opticum (stratum album medium). The portion of the nucleus between this stratum and the stratum zonale is called the stratum cinereum. The fibres entering the nucleus from the lateral lemniscus probably all represent auditory connections. The stratum album profundum, composed of the lemniscus fibres and fibres from cells of the nucleus and the stratum opticum together, form the so-called 'optic-acoustic reflex path' (fig. 611). From the various studies that have been made it appears that the superior col- liculus of the corpora quaclrigemina is merely the central reflex organ concerned in the control of the eye muscles—eye muscle reflexes which result from retinal and coch- lear stimulation. Fibres from its nucleus to the visual area of the occipital cortex have been claimed for certain mammals, but in man the superior colliculus may be entirely destroyed without disturbance of the perception of light or color. In the level of the anterior part of the superior colliculus the fibres which arise from the cells of its nucleus and course ventrally in the stratum album profundum collect into a strong bundle. This bundle passes ventral to the medial longitudinal fasciculus and, in the space between the two red nuclei, it forms a dense decussation with the similar bundle from the opposite side. In decussating the fibres turn in spray-like curves downwards and soon join the medial longitudinal fasciculus. This is the 'fountain decussation.' (Forel.) There is abundant evidence that fibres arising in the corpora quaclrigemina de- scend into the spinal cord. Various studies make it appear that at least part of these are fibres from the fountain decussation, and that these course through the medulla oblongata in the ventral part of the medial longitudinal fasciculus, and thence descend into the cord, probably no further than the cervical region, in the ' quadrigemino- thalamus path' (fig. 571). The termination of these crossed fibres about those ventral horn cells of the cervical cord which send fibres through the rami communicantes probably establishes the pathway by which the superior quadrigeminate bodies, and indirectly the retina, are connected with the cervical sympathetic ganglia, and by which may be explained the disturbances in pupillary contraction induced by lesions of the lower cervical cord. The medial geniculate body and the medial root of the optic tract, which runs into the former, probably have nothing to do with the functions of the optic apparatus. Both remain intact after extirpation of the eyes. The medial root of the optic tract is apparently nothing more than the beginning of Gudden's commissure, a bundle passing by way of the optic tract, connecting the medial geniculate body of one side with that of the other side. The medial longitudinal fasciculus (posterior longitudinal fasciculus) is con- tinuous with the ventral fasciculus proprius and the sulco-marginal fasciculus of the spinal cord, extends throughout the rhombencephalon and mesencephalon, and is represented in the hypothalamic region of the prosencephalon. Deserted by the lemniscus at the inferior border of the pons, it maintains its closely medial position and courses throughout in the immediate ventral margin of the central grey sub- stance of the central canal and floor of the fourth ventricle, and likewise in the ventral margin of the central grey substance of the mesencephalon. The two fasci- culi constitute the principal association pathways of the brain-stem, and, true to their nature as such, they are among the first of its pathways to acquire medulla- tion. In the mesencephalon they become two of its most conspicuous tracts, and