ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1036 fossa just named. On passing through this pulley, or trochlea, the tendon bends at an angle of 50°, running backwards and outwards under the superior rectus to its insertion into the sclerotic. It is supplied by the fourth nerve. The inferior oblique arises from the front of the orbit, about the junction of its inner and lower walls, just external to the lower end of the lachrymal groove. It runs, in a sloping direction, outwards and backwards, lying at first between the inferior rectus and the orbital floor, then between the external rectus and the globe; Fig. 734.—Diagrammatic Representation of Origins of Ocular Muscles at the Apex of the Right Orbit. (After Schwalbe, slightly altered.) Superior rectus FO URTH NER VE Levator palpebrae superioris Lachrymal and frontal vein Origin of external rectus from fibrous bridge over superior orbital fissure Naso-ciliary of fifth nerve SIXTH NER \'E ^|— Superior oblique OPTIC FORAMEN AND NERVE \§- Internal rectus Inferior rectus External rectus THIRD NER VE finally it ascends slightly, to be inserted by a short tendon into the sclerotic at the back of the eye. Its nervous supply is derived from the third nerve. The precise manner of insertion of the different ocular muscles has been described above in our Examination of the Eyeball. (For Muscles of the Eyelids and Eyebrows, see pages 331 and following.) Action of the ocular muscles.—While rotating the globe so that the cornea is turned in different directions, the ocular muscles do not alter the position of the eyeball in the orbit either laterally, vertically, or antero-posteriorly. In speaking, therefore, of the eye being moved upwards or outwards, etc., it is the altered position of the cornea or front of the eye that we mean to express; it is manifest that, if the cornea moves up, the back of the eyeball must simultaneously be depressed, and similarly with other movements. All the movements of the globe take place by rota- tion, on axes passing through the centre. Though the possible axes are numerous in combined muscular action, there are three principal axes of rotation of the eye- ball, and in reference to these the action of individual muscles must be described.