831 THE CORPUS CALLOSUM The corpus callosum.—In their early development as lateral dilations of the anterior primary brain-vesicles, the hemispheres are connected with each other only at the anterior end of the thalamencephalon, where they are both continuous with the lamina terminalis. As development proceeds and the hemispheres extend upwards, backwards, forwards, and laterally to completely conceal the base, and as the pallium thickens and its folds begin to appear, the two hemispheres become united across the mid-line above the thalamencephalon and the third ventricle by the format ion of the great cerebral commissure, the corpus callosum. After removal of the falx cerebri from the longitudinal fissure, the dorsal surface of the corpus callosum may be exposed by drawing apart the contiguous mesial surfaces of the hemispheres. It con- sists of a dense mass of pure white substance coursing transversely, and arises as out- growths from the cortical cells of both hemispheres. Thus it is the great pathway which associates the cortex of the two sides of the telencephalon. Only the smaller medial portion of the body lies free in the floor of the longitudinal fissure, by far the greater part being concealed in the substance of the hemispheres, where its fibres radiate to and from different localities of the pallium, forming the radiation of the corpus callosum. Its surface shows numerous transverse markings, the transverse stria;, which indicate the Fig. 619.—Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces op Right Cerebral Hemisphere, Viewed from the Left. (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Rebman, London and New York.) SULCUS OF THE CORPUS CALLOSUM BODY OF FORNIX BODY OF CORPUS CALLOSUM INTERVENTRICULAR FORAMEN GENU OF CORPUS CALLOSUM THALAMUS CRUS OF FORNIX CUT SURFACE OF CEREBRAL FED UNCLE SPLENIUM OF CORPUS PILLARS OF FORNIX ANTERIOR COMMISSURE OPTIC CHIASMA / PILLARS OF FORNIX / CORPUS MAMMILLARE \ HIPPOCA MP A L FISSURE Impression for petrous bone THALAMO-MAMMILLAR Y FASCICUL US DENTA TE FASCIA ISTHMUS OF GYRUS FORNICA- \ TUS \ CHORIOID FISSURE FIMBRIA course of its component bundles of fibres. In addition there may be seen two delicate, variable longitudinal bands running over its surface on each side of the mid-line. The medial longitudinal stria runs close to the median plane, around the anterior end into the gyrus subcallosus (fig. 620), and over the posterior end downwards and lateral- wards to connect with the hippocampal gyrus of the base of the telencephalon. The lateral longitudinal stria is more delicate than the mesial stria, and courses lateral- wards, and can only be seen within the sulcus of the corpus callosum (fig. 620). When severed along the median plane, it may be seen that the anterior margin of the corpus callosum is turned abruptly downwards, forming the genu, and that this turn continues, so that the tapering edge of the body points posteriorly and constitutes the rostrum (figs. 615 and 619). The rostrum is in contact with the lamina terminalis of the third ventricle below by a short, thin, dorso-frontal continuation of this lamina, known as the rostral lamina. The rostral lamina may be considered as beginning at the anterior cerebral commissure with the anterior aspect of which it is in contact, and extending to the rostrum. Beginning with the rostrum and genu, the corpus callosum arches backwards as the body of the corpus callosum, and ends over the corpora quadrigemina in its rounded, thickened posterior margin, the splenium. It is bounded above by the sulcus of the corpus callosum, and, attached to its concave