898 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM ventricle. Posteriorly the continuation of this lateral extension appears as an in- vagination into the lateral ventricle through the floor of the chorioid fissure. The blood-vessels of the border projecting into the lateral ventricle are amplified into a plexus which appears as a strip of reddish, lobulated, villus-like processes known as the chorioid plexus of the lateral ventricle. The plexus, being in the-border of the tela, begins at the interventricular foramen, extends through the body or central portion of the ventricle, and downwards into the inferior cornu. It is most developed at the junction of the body with the inferior cornu, and is there known as the glomus chorioideum. From the under surface of the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle, hanging down on either side of the mid-line into the cavity of the ventricle, are two other longitudinal, lobulated strands of blood-vessels which are the chorioid plexuses of the third ventricle. At the anterior end of the third ventricle these two plexuses join with each other and also at the interventricular foramen with the plexus of the lateral ventricle of each side. Fig. 669.—Diagram of Coronal Section of Cerebrum through Middle of Thalamen- CEPHALON SHOWING RELATIONS OF PlA MaTER ENCEPHALI AND CHORIOID PLEXUSES OF Third and Lateral Ventricles. FIFTH VENTRICLE LATERAL VENTRICLE CAUDATE NUCLEUS CHORIOID PLEXUS INFERIOR CORNU OF LATERAL VENTRICLE FIMBRIA DENTA TE FASCIA CORPUS CALLOSUM THALAMUS THIRD VENTRICLE THALA MO- MA MMIL- LARY FAS- CICULUS FOOT OF INTERNAL CAPSULE The chorioid plexuses of both the ventricles are covered by a layer of epithelium, epithelial chorioid lamina, which is but a reflexion of the epithelium lining the cavities throughout. The blood-vessels of the chorioid plexus of the lateral ventricle receive blood by the chorioid artery (a direct branch of the internal carotid), which enters the plexus through the chorioid fissure immediately behind the uncus, and also by the chorioidal branches of the posterior cerebral artery, which supply the plexus of the body of the ventricle. The chorioid plexuses of the third ventricle receive blood chiefly by branches from the superior cerebellar arteries. The greater part of the blood of both plexuses passes out by way of the tortuous chorioid veins, which, at the interventricular foramen, empty into the vena? terminales (veins of the corpus stri- atum) , which, in their turn, go to form the greater part of the veins of Galen. Thence the blood passes by way of the vena cerebri magna into the straight sinus. It is prob- able that a large part of the cerebro-spinal fluid is derived by diffusion through the walls of the vessels of the chorioid plexuses.