805 NUCLEI OF THE CRANIAL NERVES tions that they may be described together. Both contain efferent fibres, though both are in greater part sensory. They are very similar as to the origin of both their efferent and afferent components. The afferent fibres of the vagus arise in its ganglion jugulare and its ganglion nodosum (ganglion of the trunk); the af- ferent fibres of the glosso-pharyngeus arise in its ganglion superius and its ganglion petrosum. In both nerves these fibres enter the lateral aspect of the medulla and bifurcate into ascending and descending branches, similar to those of the dorsal root- fibres in the spinal cord. Some of these branches terminate in practically the same level of the medulla about cell-bodies situated on the same and the opposite sides. Such end chiefly in the nuclei of the hypoglossal and spinal accessory, and about the cells giving origin to the efferent components of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeus themselves—short reflex fibres. However, most of the afferent fibres terminate in the nucleus of termination of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeus:—(1) the nucleus of the ala cinerea, the middle portion of which is indicated in the floor of the fourth ventricle by the ala cinerea; (2) in the closed portion of the medulla, the lower end of the nucleus of the ala cinerea comes to lie in the dorso-lateral proximity of the central canal, and this portion is known as the commissural nucleus of the ala cinerea (figs. 593 and 597) from the fact that fibres may be seen which pass directly from it across the mid-line; (3) most of the descending branches of the bifurcated fibres collect to form the solitary tract, a compact bundle situated dorsally just lateral to the nucleus of the ala cinerea and quite conspicuous in sections of the medulla. The fibres of this bundle terminate in the nucleus of the solitary tract, which is but a ventro-lateral and downward continuation of the nucleus of the ala cinerea enclosing the bundles forming the tract. It is probable that the fibres of the solitary tract are chiefly from the vagus (pneumogastric), though Bruce has found evidence that the glosso-pharyngeal contributes to it appreciably. It decreases rapidly in descending the medulla, owing to the rapid termination of its fibres about the cells of its nucleus, but it is believed to extend as far downwards as the level of the fourth cervical segment of the spinal cord. This being in the level or origin of the phrenic nerve, the funiculus may be in part a link in the respiratory apparatus which aids in the co-ordinated respiratory movements. The axones given off by the cells of the terminal nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeus course on both sides of the mid-line, the greater por- tion perhaps decussating to be distributed to the structures of the opposite side. Some join the lemniscus of the opposite side and pass into the cerebrum; others are distributed to the motor neurones of the medulla and cervical cord of the same and opposite sides (reflex axones), and no doubt others form central connections with the cells of the reticular formation of the medulla, though their precise relations have not been determined. The nuclei of origin of the motor fibres of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeus are the dorsal efferent nucleus and the nucleus ambiguus. The cells of the dorsal nucleus lie somewhat clustered in the ventro-mesial side of the nucleus of the ala cinerea and lateral to the nucleus of the hypoglossus. Their axones pass outwards among the entering or afferent vago-glossopharyngeal fibres. The nucleus am- biguus or ventral efferent nucleus lies in the lateral half of the reticular formation, about mid-way between the olive and the line traversed by the rootlets of the two nerves. Its upper end is larger. Its cells are considerably dispersed by the fibres of the reticular formation. The axones arising from its cells course at first dorsal- wards and then turn abruptly outwards to join the rootlets of the vagus or glosso- pharyngeus, as the case may be. The vagus is thought to receive more efferent fibres from the two motor nuclei than does the glosso-pharyngeus, and Cunningham notes that it may be questioned whether the latter contains any motor fibres at all, there being paths by which the fibres of its motor branch (to the stylo-pharyngeus mus- cle) might enter it other than direct from the motor nuclei. . The acoustic nerve is a double nerve, both divisions of which are purely sensory. It enters the brain at the lateral aspect of the junction of the medulla oblongata and pons. It is best described as two nerves:— (1) The vestibular nerve arises as the central processes of the bipolar cells of the vestibular ganglion, and passes into the brain-stem on the inner side of the resti- form body to find its nucleus of termination (nucleus vestibularis) in the floor of the fourth ventricle. This nucleus occupies a triangular area of considerable extent (area acustica, figs. 591 and 594), and is usually subdivided into a lateral nucleus (Deiters'), a medial nucleus (Schwalbe's), a superior nucleus (Bechterew's), and an