THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 928 fossa it lies external to the axillary artery and it is overlapped, on its outer side, by thecoraco-brachialis muscle. In the upper half of the arm it lies along the outer side of the brachial artery, and it is overlapped by the inner border of the biceps. At the middle of the arm it passes in front of the brachial artery, and then it descends, on the inner side of the artery, to the elbow. In the upper part of the antecubital fossa it is still at the inner side of the brachial artery, but separated from it by a small interval, and in the lower part of the fossa it lies along the inner side of the ulnar artery. As it leaves the antecubital fossa it passes between the two heads of the pronator teres, and it crosses in front of the ulnar artery (fig. 683), from which it is separated by the deep head of the pronator. In the forearm it passes vertically downwards, accompanied by the median (comes nervi mediani) artery. In the upper two-thirds of the region it lies deeply, between the flexor digitorum sublimis and the flexor digitorum profundus, but in the lower third it becomes more superficial, and is placed beneath the deep fascia, between the flexor carpi radialis on the radial side and the palmaris longus and flexor digitorum sublimis tendons on the ulnar side. It crosses beneath the transverse carpal (anterior annular) ligament, in front of the flexor tendons, and in the palm at the lower border of the ligament it enlarges and divides into three branches, the common volar digital nerves. Branches.—The median nerve does not supply any part of the upper arm. In front of the elbow-joint it furnishes one or two filaments to that articulation. In the forearm it supplies all the superficial anterior muscles (with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris) directly from its trunk, and it supplies the deep muscles (with the exception of the inner half of the flexor digitorum profundus) by the volar (anterior) interosseous branch. In the hand it supplies the group of short muscles of the thumb which are placed on the radial side of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, the two outer lumbricales, the integument covering the central part of the palm and inner part of the thenar eminence, and the palmar aspect of the first, second, third, and radial half of the fourth digits. It also sends twigs to the dorsal aspect of these digits. The nerve to the pronator teres usually arises a little above the bend of the elbow, and pierces the outer border of the muscle (figs. 683 and 684). It may arise in a common trunk with the following nerves:— The nerves to the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor digitorum sublimis arise a little lower down, and pierce the pronator-flexor mass of muscles to end in the respective members of the group for which they are destined (fig. 682). The volar (anterior) interosseous nerve arises from the median at the level of the bicipital tubercle of the radius (fig. 683), and runs downwards, on the interosseous membrane, accompanied by the volar (anterior) interosseous artery. It passes under cover of the pronator quadratus, and pierces the deep surface of that muscle, which it supplies. The volar interosseous nerve also furnishes a twig to the front of the wrist- joint, and supplies the flexor digitorum profundus and the flexor pollicis longus. The nerve to the former muscle arises from the volar interosseous near its commencement ; it supplies the outer two divisions of the muscle, and it communicates within the substance of the muscle with twigs derived from the ulnar nerve. It also supplies a branch to the interosseous membrane which runs downwards upon, or in, the membrane, supplying it and giving branches to the volar (anterior) interosseous and nutrient arteries and to the periosteum of the radius, the ulna, and the carpus. The palmar cutaneous branch arises immediately above the transverse carpal (anterior annular) ligament and passes between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and the palmaris longus (fig. 683). It then crosses the superficial surface of the transverse carpal ligament, and is distributed to the integument and fascia on the central depressed surface of the palm. It also supplies a few twigs to the inner border of the thenar eminence; these twigs communicate with the musculo-cutaneous and superficial radial nerves. The three common volar digital nerves pass in the palm of the hand dorsal to the superficial palmar arch and its digital branches, while the proper volar digitals, branches of these nerves, lie ventral to the digital arteries. The first of the common volar digital nerves gives off a branch to supply the abductor pollicis, the opponens, and the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and anastomoses by a delicate branch with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into three proper volar digitals (fig. 684). The outer of these passes