869 THE FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF THE CORTEX (3) The auditory (cochlear) area comprises the middle third of the superior temporal gyrus and the transverse temporal gyri of the temporal operculum. The motor portion of this area lies in its inferior border. The fibres arising in the area course outwards in the temporal pontile path to the motor nuclei of the medulla. (4) The olfactory area consists of the olfactory trigone, the parolfactory area, the sub- callosal gyrus, part of the anterior perforated substance, the hippocampus (especially the uncus), and the callosal half of the gyrus cinguli. Its motor or efferent area lies chiefly in the hippo- campal gyrus, the fibres from which pass out from the telencephalon by way of the fornix. (5) The gustatory area comprises the anterior portion of the fusiform gyrus and the zone (motor portion) about the anterior extremity of the inferior temporal sulcus. (6) The association centres.—The relatively large areas allotted at present to the so-called higher psychic activities are indicated in fig. 644. The great relative extent of these is one of the characteristics of the human brain. They probably merely represent the portions of the cortex of which little is known, and may eventually be subdivided into more specific areas. They are considered to be connected with the structures below by fewer projection fibres than are the recognised sense areas named above, while, on the other hand, they are rich in association fibres. By means of the latter they are in intimate connection with the specific areas and have abundant means of exercising a controlling influence upon the functions of these areas. According to Flechsig, they consist of—(1) a parietal association centre, comprising that part of the parietal cortex between the somsesthetic area and the visual area; (2) an occipitotemporal association centre, including the unspecified portions of the temporal , lobe and the adjoining portion of the occipital lobe not included in the visual area: (3) a frontal association centre, including all the frontal lobe anterior to the somsesthetic and olfactory areas. In the folds of the inferior parietal lobule of the parietal association centre such intellectual activities as the optic discrimination of words, letters, numbers, and objects generally are supposed to take place, while the superior parietal lobule is the general region for the perception of form and solidity of objects—the stere- ognostic centre. To a portion of the middle temporal gyrus has been attributed the faculty of the auditory discrimination of words and sounds and the association of objects with their names. GENERAL SUMMARY OF SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL CONDUCTION PATHS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM In the following summary the arabic numerals indicate paragraphs in which are mentioned the nuclei or ganglia containing the cell-bodies of the neurones interposed in the chains; the small letters indicate the different names given to the different levels of the pathways through which their fibres run. For detailed descriptions of either nuclei or pathways see pages describing them. Only the more common connections are mentioned here. I. The Cerebro-spinal Path A. The ascending system of neurones. 1. Spinal ganglion—neurone of first order. (a) Terminal corpuscles and peripheral process of T-fibre. (b) Dorsal or afferent root of spinal nerve. (c) Ascending branch of bifurcation of dorsal root fibre in fasciculus gracilis, or fasciculus cuneatus of spinal cord. 2. Nucleus of fasciculus gracilis or nucleus of fasciculus cuneatus in medulla oblongata— neurone of second order. (a) Internal arcuate fibres. (b) Decussation of lemniscus. (c) Interolivary stratum of lemniscus of opposite side. (d) Medial lemniscus. 3. Hypothalamic nucleus and lateral nucleus of thalamus—neurone of third order. (a) Internal capsule, anterior part of its occipital portion. (b) Corona radiata, fronto-parietal part. (c) Somsesthetic area of cerebral cortex. B. Descending system of neurones (fig. 647). 1. Giant pyramidal cells of somsesthetic area. (a) Corona radiata, fronto-occipital part. (6) Internal capsule, genu and anterior part of occipital portion. (c) Basis of the cerebral peduncle and the peduncle. (d) Pyramid of medulla oblongata. (e1) Decussation of pyramids. (/') Lateral cerebro-spinal fasciculus (crossed pyramidal tract). (e2) Ventral cerebro-spinal fasciculus (direct or uncrossed pyramidal tract), (f) Gradual decussation of latter in cervical and upper thoracic regions of spinal cord. 2. Cells of ventral horn of spinal cord of opposite side. (a) Ventral or efferent roots of spinal nerves. (b) Peripheral nerve-trunks direct ly to muscles or indirectly by way of sympathetic neurones. II. Short 'Reflex' Paths of Spinal Cord 1. Spinal ganglia. (a) Terminal corpuscles and peripheral process of T-fibre. (b) Dorsal root of spinal nerve.