987 THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE two spinal nerves. As the spinal fibres pass out of the surface of the cord they unite to form an ascending strand which enters the posterior fossa of the cranium, through the foramen magnum, and, turning outwards, blends more or less intimately with the accessory portion. Thus combined, the nerve enters the jugular foramen in com- pany with the vagus, but here it is again separated into its internal and external branches, which contain chiefly the same fibres as the original superior and inferior parts. The internal branch, or accessory portion of the nerve, gives one or more filaments of communication to the jugular ganglion (ganglion of the root of the vagus), and then joins either the trunk of the vagus directly or its ganglion nodosum, the fibres of the branch being contributed to the pharyngeal, laryngeal, and cardiac branches of the vagus. Fibres corresponding to the white rami communicantes, absent in the cervical nerves, probably enter the cervical sympathetic ganglion through this ramus. The external branch or the spinal portion runs backwards and downwards under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric and the sterno-mastoid. It usually crosses in front of and to the outer side of the internal jugular vein and between it and the occipital artery; then it pierces the sterno-mastoid, supplies filaments to it, and anastomoses in its substance with branches of the second cervical nerve. It emerges from the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid slightly above the level of the upper border of the thyreoid cartilage, passes obliquely downwards and backwards across the occipital portion of the posterior triangle, and disappears beneath the trapezius about the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the an- terior border of that muscle (fig. 707). In the posterior triangle it receives communi- cations from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and beneath the trapezius its fibres form a plexus with other branches of the same nerves. Its terminal filaments are distributed to the trapezius and they can be traced almost to the lower extremity of that muscle. Central Connections.—The nuclei of origin, like other motor nuclei, are connected with the somaesthetic area of the cortex cerebri by the pyramidal fibres, and they are associated with the sensory nuclei of other cerebral nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus, and the fibres of the fasciculi proprii. THE TWELFTH NERVE—THE HYPOGLOSSUS The hypoglossal nerves are exclusively motor; they supply the genio-hyoidei and the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the tongue except the glosso-palatini. The fibres of each nerve issue from the cells of an elongated nucleus which lies in the floor of the central canal in the lower half of the medulla and in the floor of the fourth ventricle in the upper half beneath the trigonum hypoglossi. This nucleus is the upward continuation of the ventral group of cells of the ventral horn of the spinal cord. From their origin the fibres run ventralwards and somewhat lateralwards, probably joined in the medulla by a few fibres from the nucleus ambiguus which is a segment of the upward prolongation of the lateral group of cells of the ventral horn. The conjoined fibres issue from the medulla in the sulcus between the pyramid and the olivary body, in a series of from ten to sixteen root filaments, which pierce the pia mater and unite with each other to form two bundles (fig. 698). These bundles pass forwards and outwards to the hypoglossal (anterior condyloid) foramen, where they pierce the arachnoid and dura mater. In the outer part of the foramen the two bundles unite to form the trunk of the nerve. At its commencement, at the base of the skull, the trunk of the hypoglossus lies on the inner side of the vagus, but as it descends in the neck it turns gradually around the back and the outer side of the latter nerve, lying between it and the internal jugular vein, and a little above the level of the hyoid bone it bends forwards, and crosses external to the internal carotid artery, the root of origin of the occipital artery, the external carotid, and the loop formed by the first part of the lingual artery (fig. 707). After crossing the lingual artery it proceeds forwards on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, crossing to the inner side of the posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscles. It disappears in the anterior part of the submaxillary region between the mylo- hyoid and the hyo-glossus, and divides into its terminal branches between the latter muscle and the genio-glossus. As it descends in the neck the trunk lies deeply between the internal jugular vein