THE CEREBELLUM 787 greatest relative size, and possesses a mediam or basilar sulcus in which lies the basilar artery. Its sagittal dimension varies from 25 to 30 mm., while its trans- verse dimension (longitudinal with the course of its fibres) is somewhat greater. It is a rounded white prominence interposed between the cerebral peduncles (crura) above and the medulla oblongata below. Its inferior margin is rounded to form the in- ferior pontine sulcus, which, between the points of the emergence of the pyramids, is continuous with and transverse to the foramen caecum. Its superior margin is thicker and is rounded to form the superior pontine sulcus, which, between the cerebral peduncles, is continuous with and transverse to the interpeduncular fossa. It is bilaterally symmetrical. The ventro-lateral bulgings of its sides (and, therefore, the basilar sulcus) are produced by the passage through it of the fibres of the cerebral peduncles from above, to reappear as the pyramids below. Its ventral surface rests upon the basilar process of the occipital bone and the dorsum sells of the sphenoid, while its lateral surfaces are adjacent to the posterior parts of the petrous portions of the temporal bones. The fibres of the thicker superior portion of the brachium pontis course obliquely downwards to their entrance into the cerebellar hemisphere; those of the lower and mid-portions course more transversely, naturally converging upon approaching the cerebellum. Certain fibres of the upper mid-portion course at first transversely and then turn abruptly downwards across the fibres above them, to join the inferior portion of the brachium pontis. This bundle is termed the oblique fasciculus (fig. 580). The trigeminus or fifth cranial nerve penetrates the superior lateral por- tion of each brachium pontis near the point of the downward turn of the oblique fasciculus; its large afferent and its small efferent roots accompany each other quite closely. That portion of the rhombencephalon overlying the pons and forming the floor of the fourth ventricle is not a part of the pons at all. It is merely a continuation of the brain-stem from the medulla below to the structures above. Therefore on the dorsal surface there is no line of demarcation between the pons and medulla below or between the pons and isthmus above. The fibres of the trigeminus pass through the pontine fibres to and from their nuclei in the brain-stem. THE CEREBELLUM The cerebellum or hind brain is the largest portion of the rhombencephalon. It lies in the posterior or cerebellar fossa of the cranium, and behind the pons and medulla oblongata, overhanging the latter. It fits under the occipital lobes of the cerebral hemispheres, from which it is separated by a strong duplication of the inner layer of the dura mater, the tentorium cerebelli. Its greatest diameter lies trans- versely, and its average weight, exclusive of the dura mater, is about 140 gm., or about 10 per cent, of the entire encephalon. It varies in development with the cerebrum, and, like it, averages larger in the male. It is relatively larger in adults than in children. Its development begins as a thickening of the anterior portion of the roof (dorsal zone) of the posterior of the three primary brain vesicles. Resting upon the brain-stem, it roofs over the fourth ventricle and is connected with the structures anterior, below, and posterior to it by its three pairs of peduncles. The surface of the cerebellum is thrown into numerous narrow folia or laminas, which in the given localities run more or less parallel with each other. They are separated by narrow but relatively deep sulci. Unlike the spinal cord and medulla, in which the grey substance is centrally placed and surrounded by a mantle of white substance, the surface of the cerebellum is itself a cortex of grey substance, the cortical substance, enclosing a core of white substance, the medullary body. How- ever, within this central core of white substance are situated definite grey masses, the nuclei of the cerebellum. The gross divisions of the cerebellum are three: the two larger lateral portions, the hemispheres, and between these the smaller central portion, the vermis. The demarcation between these gross divisions is not very evident from the dorsal sur- face, because the hemispheres in their extraordinary development in man encroach upon the vermis, and, being pressed under the overlapping cerebral hemispheres, they become partially fused upon the vermis along the dorsal mid-line. Though differentiated simultaneously with the cerebellar hemispheres in the human fcetus,