970 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM the pterygoideus internus it crosses the fibres of the superior constrictor, which arise from the mandible, and turns forwards towards the tip of the tongue, crossing the outer surfaces of the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and genio-glossus. In its course across the hyo-glossus it lies first above, then to the outer side of, and finally below Wharton's duct, and as it ascends on the genio-glossus it lies on the inner side of the duct. Communications and Branches.—While it is on the inner side of the pterygoid- eus externus, the lingual nerve is joined, at an acute angle, by the chorda tympani (figs. 703, 707), a branch of the seventh nerve, and as it lies between the ramus of the mandible and the pterygoideus internus it is connected by a communicating branch with the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve, and gives off one or two small branches, the rami isthmi faucium, which pass to the tonsil and the mucous mem- brane of the posterior part of the mouth (fig. 707). While it is above the duct it gives a branch, which contains many chorda tympani fibres, to the submaxillary ganglion (see p. 974), and it receives branches from that ganglion. A little further forwards it is connected by one or two branches, which run along the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, with the hypoglossal nerve (fig. 707). It then gives off the sublingual nerve, which runs forwards to supply the sublingual gland and the neighbouring mucous membrane (fig. 707). Its terminal (lingual) branches pierce the muscular substance of the tongue and are distributed to the mucous membrane of its anterior two-thirds. They anastomose with similar branches of the other side and with branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Inferior Alveolar (dental) Nerve is the largest branch of the posterior portion of the mandibular nerve. It commences on the inner side of the external pterygoid muscle and descends to the interval between the spheno-mandibular liga- ment and the ramus of the mandible, where it receives one or two communicating branches from the lingual nerve. Opposite the middle of the inner surface of the ramus it enters the mandibular (inferior dental) canal, accompanied by the inferior