THE CCELIAC PLEXUS 1015 nerve, and, near its lower border, lying over the origin of the renal artery, is a more or less detached part, known as the aortico-renal ganglion. This ganglion receives the lesser splanchnic nerve and may seemingly give origin to the greater part of the renal plexus. Another part of the cceliac ganglion, often found behind the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, is known as the superior mesenteric ganglion (fig. 721). From the cceliac plexus and its ganglia subordinate plexuses are continued upon the aorta and its branches. These comprise both paired and unpaired plexuses. The paired plexuses are the phrenic, suprarenal and renal, the spermatic in the male, and, in the female, the ovarian plexuses. The unpaired plexuses are the aortic, hepatic, splenic, superior gastric, inferior gastric, superior mesenteric, and inferior mesenteric. That part of the cceliac plexus surrounding the cceliac artery was formerly de- scribed as the cceliac plexus. It is better considered as an unnamed part of the larger cceliac plexus. This part of the plexus receives fibres from both vagus nerves, and gives filaments that form plexuses around the branches of the cceliac artery and their ramifications. The paired subordinate plexuses :—(1) The phrenic (diaphragmatic) plexuses consist of fibres from the upper part of the cceliac ganglia, which follow the inferior phrenic arteries and their branches on the under surface of the diaphragm (fig. 721). Filaments are given off by the roots of the plexuses to the suprarenal bodies, and others unite with the terminal branches of the phrenic nerves. The point of junc- tion with the right phrenic nerve is marked by the phrenic ganglion, from which branches are distributed to the inferior vena cava, to the right suprarenal body, and to the hepatic plexus. (2) The suprarenal plexuses are comparatively large plexuses, formed mainly by branches from the cceliac (semilunar) ganglia. However, fibres come to them from the cceliac plexus along the suprarenal arteries, from the phrenic plexus along the inferior phrenic arteries, and from the renal plexus along the inferior suprarenal arteries. They are distributed to the substance of the suprarenal bodies. (3) The renal plexuses receive fibres from the lower part of the cceliac ganglia and from the cceliac and aortic plexuses. They also receive filaments from the least splanchnic nerves, when these nerves are present, and sometimes filaments from the small splanchnic nerves and from the first lumbar ganglion of the sympa- thetic trunk. These plexuses pass along the renal arteries into the substance of the kidneys. Most of the fibres of each renal plexus are grey fibres, and as they pass to the kidneys small renal ganglia are developed upon them. Both renal plexuses give branches to the corresponding spermatic plexuses and to the ureter, and the right renal plexus gives filaments also to the inferior vena cava. (4 a) The spermatic plexuses (fig. 721) are formed by fibres from the renal and aortic plexuses. They accompany the spermatic arteries and are joined at the ab- dominal inguinal (internal abdominal) ring by fibres that have passed along the vas deferens from the pelvic plexuses. Their terminal filaments are distributed to the testis and the epididymis. (4 b) The ovarian plexuses are formed in the female like the spermatic plexuses in the male. They accompany the ovarian arteries and, in the broad ligament, receive fibres from the utero-vaginal plexus. They supply the ovaries, the broad ligaments, and the Fallopian tubes, and send some fibres to the fundus of the uterus, where they become continuous with the utero-vaginal plexus. The unpaired subordinate plexuses:—(1) The abdominal aortic plexus is formed by two strands of fibres which descend along the sides of the aorta and communicate with each other across its ventral aspect. It is connected above with the renal plexuses, and it receives peripheral branches from some of the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic trunk on each side. It often contains a number of gan- glia, which are situated at the points where the peripheral branches join the plexus, and it terminates below, chiefly by anastomoses with the hypogastric plexus (figs. 721 and 722). Besides giving filaments to the inferior vena cava, it also gives fibres that form plexuses along each of the branches of the aorta. The fibres that pass from the lower end of the aortic plexus upon the common iliac artery form the iliac plexus, which is continued along the femoral artery as the femoral plexus, and still further along the popliteal artery as the popliteal plexus. (2) The superior gastric (coronary) plexus, receiving filaments from the