THE PI A MATER 895 for the most part longitudinally. The spinal pia mater also appears less vascular than the cranial from the fact that the blood-vessels composing the plexus lying in it are obviously much smaller than those of the encephalon. Its inner layer is a thin feltwork of fibres which is closely adherent to the surface of the spinal cord through- out, sending numerous connective-tissue processes into it which contribute to the support of the nervous tissues. The larger of these processes carry with them the numerous intrinsic blood-vessels from the superficial plexus. The two layers are closely connected with each other, and are distinguished by the difference in the arrangement of their fibres. The membrane dips into the anterior median fissure and bridges it over by forming an extra thickening along it. This thickening appears as a band along the mid-line of the ventral surface of the cord, the linea splendens (fig. 657). It carries the anterior spinal artery, the largest of the arterial trunks of the superficial plexus (fig. 665). The pia mater contributes the innermost and most compact portion of the epineu- rium of each of the nerve-roots, and thus, upon the roots, it is prolonged laterally into the intervertebral foramina, where the dura mater blends with it in producing the increased thickness of the epineurium. From each side of the cord the pia mater gives off a leaf-like fold, the ligamentum denticulatum, which spreads laterally toward the dura mater midway between the lines of attachment of the dorsal and ventral nerve-roots. The outer border of this fold is dentate or scalloped into twenty-one pointed processes, which extend through the arachnoid and are attached to the inner surface of the dura mater. The denta- tions are usually inserted between the levels of exit of the roots of the spinal nerves, the uppermost one a little above the first cervical nerve and the region where the vertebral artery perforates the dura mater; the lowermost one between the last thoracic and first lumbar nerves, or, between the last two thoracic nerves. The liga- menta denticulata, aided slightly by the septum posticum, serve to hold the spinal cord more or less suspended in the subarachnoid cavity. Below, at the sudden, conical termination of the spinal cord in the lumbar portion of the spinal canal, the pia mater is spun out into a thin, tubular filament, the filum terminale, which continues downwards into the sac formed by the dura mater about the cauda equina, and at the end fuses with the dura mater in line with the filum of the spinal dura mater (coccygeal ligament) of the outside (figs. 566 and 655). The cranial pia mater is closely applied to the external surface of the brain, dipping into all the fissures, furrows, and sulci. It is connected with the arachnoid by numerous filaments of the spongy subarachnoid tissue and by the blood-vessels