THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 828 The infundibulum is but the attenuated apex of the conical tuber cinereum, and forms the neck connecting it with the hypophysis. It is so drawn out that it is re- ferred to as the stalk of the hypophysis. The cavity of the tuber cinereum (in- fundibular recess) is sometimes maintained throughout the greater part of the length of the infundibulum, giving it the form of a long-necked funnel. Near the hypo- physis the cavity is always occluded. The hypophysis cerebri (pituitary body or gland) is an ovoid mass terminating the infundibulum. It lies in the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, where it is held down and roofed in by the diaphragma settee, a circular fold of the dura mater. It consists of two lobes, a large anterior lobe, the glandular or buccal lobe, and a smaller posterior or cerebral lobe. The posterior lobe is enclasped in a concavity of the an- terior lobe. Development.—The posterior or cerebral lobe alone is originally continuous with and a part of the infundibulum. It alone represents the termination of the hollow diverticulum which, in the embryo, grows downwards from that part of the anterior cerebral vesicle which later becomes the third ventricle. The original cavity afterwards becomes obliterated except in the upper part of the infundibulum. It is, therefore, of cerebral origin. The anterior or buccal lobe arises quite differently. It is developed from an upward tubular diverticulum (Rathke's pouch) of the primitive buccal cavity. In the higher vertebrates, including man, its connection with the buccal cavity becomes obliterated as the cartilaginous base of the cranium is consolidated, but in the myxinoid fishes the connection remains patent in the adult. Cut off within the cranial cavity, the embryonic buccal lobe assumes its intimate association with the cerebral lobe. In about the second month of fetal life it begins to develop numerous secondary diverticula which become the epithelial compartments evident in the adult human subject. Fig. 617.—Diagrams of the Hypophysis Cerebri. (After Testut.) A, posterior surface; B. transverse section; C, sagittal section; 1, anterior lobe; 2, posterior lobe; 3, infundibulum; 4, optic chiasma; 5, infundibular recess; 6, optic recess. In C the infundibulum is relatively much shorter than in the actual specimen. Structure.—The posterior or cerebral lobe retains no organized structure. It may be said to consist of a mass of neuroglia and other fibrous connective tissue with the cells belonging to these and a moderate supply of blood-vessels. The anterior or glandular lobe is probably the functional part of the organ. In addition to its abundant supporting tissue, it consists of com- partments lined with two kinds of cuboidal cells—cells of different size and different staining properties. The principal or more numerous cells are smaller, with thickly granular cytoplasm. In mixtures containing orange G and fuchsin these cells stain orange, while the chromophile cells, the larger and less numerous variety, take the fuchsin deeply. The compartments have an abundant blood supply. Like the epiphysis, the hypophysis must be regarded as glandular—a gland with internal secretion. In the case of giants and in acromegaly it is usually greatly enlarged. The principal cells increase greatly in-number after removal of the thyreoid body. The optic nerve is derived from this portion of the telencephalon, though the nuclei of termination of its fibres are chiefly in the thalamencephalon and mesen- cephalon. The optic apparatus consists of the retinae and optic nerves, the optic chiasma, the optic tracts, the superior quadrigeminate bodies with their connections with the nuclei of the eye-moving nerves, the metathalamus, the pulvinar of the thalamus, and the visual area, of the occipital lobe of the cerebral cortex. The fibres of the optic nerves arise from the cells of the ganglion-cell layer of the retinae. The fibres which arise in the mesial or nasal halves of each retina cross the mid- line to find their nuclei of termination in the central grey substance of the opposite side, while those from the outer or lateral halves terminate on the same side. The optic chiasma (optic commissure) is functionally independent of the struc- tures of the optic portion of the hypothalamus adjacent to it. It is formed by the approach and fusion of the two optic nerves, and is knit together by the decussating