THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 818 in the superior portion of the anterior medullary velum. In this it meets and under- goes a total decussation with the root of its fellow nerve, and then emerges at the inner margin of the superior cerebellar peduncle of the opposite side. Having emerged, it then passes ventrally around the cerebral peduncle, and thence pursues its course to the superior oblique muscle of the eye. The oculomotor or third nerve, like the trochlear, is purely motor. It is the largest of the eye-muscle nerves. It supplies in all seven muscles of the optic appara- tus:—two intrinsic, the sphincter iridis and the ciliary muscle, and five extrinsic. Of the latter, the levator palpebrse superioris is of the upper eyelid, while the re- maining four, the superior, internal, and inferior recti and the obliquus superior, are attached to the bulb of the eye. As is to be expected, its nucleus of origin is larger and much more complicated than that of the trochlear nerve. Practically continuous with that of the trochlear below, the nucleus is 5 or 6 mm. in length and extends anteriorly a short distance beyond the bounds of the mesencephalon into the grey substance by the side of the third ventricle. It lies in the ventral part of the central grey substance, and is very intimately associated with the medial lon- gitudinal fasciculus. Its thickest portion is beneath the summit of the superior quadrigeminate body. The root-fibres leave the nucleus from its ventral side and Fig. 610.—Diagrams showing the Course of Origin of the Trochlear Nerves. (Stilling.) The upper figure shows roughly the entire central course of the fourth nerves ; the lower rep- resents their region of exit in transverse section. collect into bundles which pass through the medial longitudinal fasciculus and course ventrally to the mesial portion of the substantia nigra, where they emerge in from six to fifteen rootlets which blend to form the trunk of the nerve in the oculo- motor sulcus. Those bundles which arise from the more lateral portion of the nucleus course in a series of curves through the substance of the red nucleus below and, in the substantia nigra, join those which pursue the more direct course. The trunk thus assembled passes outwards around the mesial border of the cerebral peduncle. A portion of the fibres of the oculomotor nerve upon leaving the nucleus decussate in the tegmentum immediately below and pass into the nerve of the opposite side, in which they are believed to be distributed to the opposite internal rectus muscle. The cells of the nucleus have been variously grouped and subdivided with reference to the different muscles supplied by the nerve. Perlia has divided them into eight cell-groups. The nucleus may be more easily considered as composed of an inferior and a superior group. The inferior group consists of a long lateral portion continuous with the nucleus of the trochlear nerve below, and a smaller medial portion, situated in the medial plane and continuous across the mid-line with its fellow of the opposite side. The superior group consists of cells of smaller size than the inferior, and is known as the nucleus of Edinger and Westphal. It is believed to give origin to the