THE ENCEPHALON 779 emerge from the lateral aspect of the first three or four cervical segments of the spinal cord, as well as from the medulla. It becomes fully formed before reaching the level of the olive, and passes outwards in company with the vagus. The root filaments of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal are arranged in a continuous series, and, if severed near the surface of the medulla, those belonging to the one nerve are difficult to distinguish from those belonging to the other. The hypoglossal or the twelfth and last of the cranial nerves emerges as a series of rootlets between the pyramid and the olive. Thus it arises nearer the mid-line, and in line with the abducens, trochlear, and oculomotor. If the occipital lobes be lifted from the superior surface of the cerebellum and the tentorium cerebelli removed, the corpora quadrigemina (mesencephalon) may be observed. These are situated above the cerebral peduncles, in the region of the ven- tral appearance of the oculomotor and trochlear nerves. Resting upon the supe- rior pair of the quadrigeminate bodies (colliculi superiores) is the epiphysis or pineal body, and just anterior to this is the cavity of the third ventricle, bounded laterally by the thalami and roofed over by the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle (velum interpositum). By separating the inferior margin of the cerebellum from the dorsal surface of the medulla oblongata the lower portion of the fourth ventricle (rhomboid fossa) may be seen. The cisterna cerebello-medullaris, a subarachnoid space in this region, is occupied in part by a thickening of the arachnoid. This is continuous with the tela chorioidea (ligula) and plexus chorioidea of the fourth ventricle. The former roofs over the lower portion of the fourth ventricle, and, passing through it in the medial line, is the lymph passage, the foramen of Magendie, by which the cavity of the fourth ventricle communicates with the subarachnoid space. The fourth ventricle, as it becomes continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord, ter- minates in a point, the calamus scriptorius. From the inferior surface the cere- bellar hemispheres are more definitely demarcated, and between them is the vermis or central lobe of the cerebellum. Divisions of the encephalon.—The encephalon as a whole is developed from a series of expansions, flexures, and thickenings of the wall of the anterior portion of the primitive neural tube. Being continuous with the spinal cord, it is arbitrarily considered as beginning just below the level of the decussation of the pyramids, or at a line drawn transversely between the decussation of the pyramids and the level of the first pair of cervical nerves. In its general conformation four natural divisions of the brain are apparent: the two most enlarged portions—(1) the cerebral hemispheres and (2) the cerebellum; (3) the corpora quadrigemina (mesencephalon) between the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum, and (4) the medulla oblongata, the portion continuous with the spinal cord. However, the most logical and advantageous arrangement of the divisions and subdivisions of the encephalon is on the basis of their development from the walls of the embryonic brain vesicles. On this basis, for example, both the medulla oblon- gata and the cerebellum with its pons are derived from the posterior of the primary vesicles, and are, therefore, included in a single gross division of the encephalon, viz., the rhombencephalon. In the following outline the anatomical components of the encephalon are arranged with reference to the three primary vesicles from the walls of which they are derived, and the primary flexures and thickenings of the walls of which they are elaborations. During the early growth of the neural tube its basal or ventral portion acquires a greater thickness than the lateral portions and the roof of the tube, and thus the tube is longitudinally divided into a basal or ventral zone and an alar or dorsal zone. This is especially marked in the brain vesicles. Structures arising from the dorsal zone begin as localised thickenings of the roof. For example, in the rhomb- encephalon the greater part of the medulla oblongata and of the pons region is derived from the ventral zone, while the cerebellum is derived from the dorsal zone. The first of the flexures occurs in the region of the future mesencephalon, and is known as the cephalic flexure; next occurs the cervical flexure, at the junction with the spinal cord; third, the pontine flexure, in the region of the future fourth ventricle. Both the cervical and pontine flexures, while having a significance in the growth processes, are almost entirely obliterated in the later growth of the encephalon.