School of medicini THE SYMPATHEtMVMM^§^ ^F ^^ftfe other nerves or with the organs with whose innervation they are concerned. The connecting trunks and rami may be divided into—(a) the rami communicantes, or central branches, connecting the sympathetic with, the cereDro-spinal and central systems; (b) associative trunks, best considered as those which connect sympa- thetic ganglia situated on the same side of the body; (c) commissural branches, or those which connect ganglia situated on opposite sides of the mid-line of the body, such as the transverse connecting branches between the sympathetic trunk in the lumbo-sacral region (fig. 719), or all the connecting trunks between the ganglia of plexuses occupying the mid-region of the body; (d) terminal or peripheral branches, or those which pass from the ganglia to their final distribution apparently uninter- rupted by other ganglia. THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNKS The sympathetic trunks, or gangliated cords, of the sympathetic system are two symmetrical trunks with ganglia interposed in them at intervals of varying regu- larity, and extending vertically, one on each side of the ventral aspect of the verte- bral column, from the second cervical vertebra to the first piece of the coccyx. Upon the coccyx the two trunks unite and terminate in a single medial ganglion, the ganglion coccygeum impar. The various ganglia are connected with the spinal nerves by the rami communicantes. Morphologically, each trunk might be expected to possess thirty-one ganglia, one for each spinal nerve, but, owing to the fusion of adjacent ganglia in certain regions, especially the cervical, there are in the adult only twenty-one or twenty-two ganglia in each trunk. These occur as three cervical ganglia, ten or eleven thoracic ganglia, four lumbar and four sacral ganglia, and the ganglion coccygeum impar, which is common to both trunks. In the cervical region the sympathetic trunks lie in front of the transverse proc- esses of the vertebrae, from which they are separated by the longus capitis (rectus capitis anticus major) and longus colli; in the thoracic region they lie at the sides of the bodies of the vertebras and on the heads of the ribs; in the lumbar region they are placed more ventrally with reference to the spinal nerves and more in front of the bodies of the vertebras and along the ventral borders of the psoas muscles; in the pelvis the ganglia lie between and ventral to the openings of the sacral foramina. In the lower lumbar and sacral region one ganglion may send rami communicantes to two spinal nerves and one spinal nerve may be connected with two ganglia. The ganglia of the trunks throughout give off associative branches to the ganglia of the prevertebral plexuses and branches to the nearby viscera and blood-vessels. These branches may appear either white or grey according to the predominance of medullated or non-medullated fibres in them. In the lumbo-sacral region commissural or trans- verse connecting branches between the ganglia of the two trunks are especially abun- dant. In connecting trunks having a whiter appearance, the greater part of the med- ullated fibres producing it are fibres from the spinal nerves which have passed through the sympathetic ganglia without termination and are passing on their way to termi- nate about the cells of more distant ganglia situated either in the prevertebral plexuses or in the ganglia of the terminal plexuses. The trunks connecting the ganglia of the sympathetic trunks all contain three varieties of fibres:—(1) Fibres which have entered them in the white rami communicantes from the spinal nerves of higher or lower levels, and which are coursing in them to terminate in other ganglia, either in the trunks above or below or in ganglia not belonging to the trunks; (2) fibres arising in sympathetic ganglia of a higher Or lower level and passing upwards or downwards to terminate in other ganglia of the trunk or to issue from the trunk and proceed to more peripheral ganglia or to ganglia of the opposite trunk (both associative and comT missural fibres); (3) splanchnic afferent fibres or sensory fibres arising either in the spinal ganglia, or sensory sympathetic fibres arising in sympathetic ganglia and coursing in the trunk to pass into spinal ganglia above or below by way of the grey rami communicantes. THE CEPHALIC AND CERVICAL PORTIONS OF THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK The cephalic portion of the sympathetic system consists of small ganglia and of numerous plexuses connected with the internal carotid nerve, the ascending branch