B A School of Medicins the NEURowm\yERs\JY of Leeq®i axones, and those whose sheaths are void of myelin, non-medullated axones. However, there is no sharp line of separation between these two varieties, for there may be found axones with sheaths of all degrees of medullation. Most of the neu- rones with non-medullated and partially medullated axones belong to the sympa- thetic nervous system. Some sympathetic axones are completely medullated, but their myelin sheaths are always thinner and never so well developed as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Certain axones of short course in the central nervous system are non-medullated. In internal structure the cell-body of the neurone consists of a large, spherical, vesicular nucleus with usually one characteristic, centrally placed nucleolus and a cytoplasm continuous into the axone and dendritic outgrowths. The two most interesting structures of the cytoplasm are its granular and fibrillar components. The granules are probably of nutritive significance, and, during the death changes in the cell, show a tendency to collect into clumps of characteristic shape and arrangement which are called tigroid masses or Nissl bodies. These masses are distributed throughout the cytoplasm with the interesting exception that they are not found in the axone or in the immediate vicinity of its hillock of origin. The protoplasmic fibrillse, or spongioplasmic reticulum of the original cell, increase in Fig. 557.—Schemes showing Two Forms of Termination of Axones upon Cell-bodies of other Neurones. A. In ventral horn of spinal cord. B. In spinal ganglia. thickness during the development of the neurone, and in the sending out of the processes the meshes of the net become so drawn out as to give the appearance of a more or less parallel arrangement of the threads. This appearance sometimes be- comes so manifest in the axone and portions of the cell-body that it has been interpreted as a series of individual and independent threads or neuro-fibrillae. Nerve impulses are transmitted from one element to another by means of con- tact rather than by direct anatomical continuity of the two. The axone bearing the impulse on approaching its termination loses its sheath and breaks up into its numerous terminal twigs, the final of which are called telodendria. Their terminal arrangement assumes forms varying from more compact 'pericellular baskets' to more open arborisations composed of fewer twigs. The twigs of the arborisation or end-brush are either clasped upon the dendrites of the neurone or upon its cell-body direct, as the case may be. The general manner of the contact is illustrated in fig 557. It should be mentioned that, contrary to the current belief that impulses are transmitted by simple contact of neurones, it has been advanced that the terminal twigs frequently penetrate the substance of the cell-body, and it has been held (more recently by Joris) that neuro-fibrillse sometimes pass from one neurone into another. The forms of nerve termination in the other tissues of the body are many and