THE CRANIAL NERVES 957 and to the transversus perinei, bulbocavernosus, and ischiocavernosus. It also sends some filaments to supply the mucous membrane of the urethra. The super- ficial branch almost at-once divides into external and internal branches, the posterior scrotal (labial) nerves. Both branches pass through the wall of Alcock's canal into the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, then they pierce the base of the uro-genital trigone, and enter the superficial pouch of the urethral triangle. The external branch usually passes below the transversus perinei, and the internal branch above the muscle or through its fibres. The external branch communicates with the long pudendal nerve, and with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, and both branches end in terminal filaments which anastomose and which are distributed to the skin of the scrotum and the anterior part of the perineum in the male, and to the labium majus in the female. The dorsal nerve of the penis runs forwards in Alcock's canal above the internal pudic artery. It pierces the base of the uro-genital trigone, continues forwards be- tween the layers of the trigone, embedded in the fibres of the constrictor urethrse, and it gradually passes to the outer side of the internal pudic artery. A short distance below the pudic arch it pierces the anterior layer of the uro-genital trigone, gives a branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, passes forwards between that structure and the bone,- and turns downwards on the dorsum of the penis, passing between the layers of the fundiform (suspensory) ligament and along the outer side of the dorsal artery of the penis. It supplies the skin of the dorsum of the penis, and, having given branches to the prepuce, it breaks up into terminal filaments which are dis- tributed to the glans penis. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is much smaller than the dorsal nerve of the penis to which it corresponds. It is distributed to the clitoris. THE COCCYGEAL PLEXUS This plexus is frequently, and with some reason, considered as a subdivision of the pudendal plexus, and sometimes it is described with the coccygeal nerves. It is formed chiefly by the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve and the coccygeal nerve, but it receives a small filament from the anterior division of the fourth sacral nerve (figs. 688, 692, 693). These constituents unite to form plexiform cords lying on either side of the coccyx. From these cords arise the ano-coccygeal nerves, which pierce the sacro-tuberous (great sacro-sciatic) ligament and supply the skin in the neighbourhood of the coccyx. THE CRANIAL NERVES Twelve pairs of cranial nerves are usually recognised, though there is reason for considering the nerves of the seventh and eighth pairs as composed each of two nerves, and the nerves of the eleventh pair as being merely parts of the tenth pair. The twelve are numbered from in front backwards. Their numbers, corresponding names, and functional nature are given in the following table:— Numbers. Names. Nature. I st Olfactory sensory II nd Optic sensory III rd Oculomotor motor IV th Trochlear or patheticus motor V th Trigeminal or trifacial mixed VI th Abducens motor VII th Facial (Facial and Intermedius) mixed f Cochle- ~j VIII th Auditory (Acusticus) < y^^u r sensory [ laris J IX th Glosso-pharyngeal mixed X th Vagus or pneumogastric mixed XI th Spinal accessory motor XII th Hypoglossal motor