THE TRIGEMINAL NERVE 971 alveolar (dental) artery, which lies in front of the nerve, and it runs downwards and forwards through the ramus and the body of the mandible (fig. 703). At the mental foramen it divides into two parts, one of which, the mental nerve, passes out through the mental foramen, the other, commonly called the incisive branch, continues for- wards in the canal, and supplies, through the inferior dental plexus, the canine and incisor teeth and the corresponding regions of the gums. Branches.—The branches of the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve are the mylo- hyoid, branches forming the inferior dental plexus, and the mental branch. The mylo-hyoid branch is given off immediately before the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve enters the mandibular (inferior dental) canal. It pierces the lower and back part of the spheno-mandibular ligament and runs downwards and forwards in the mylo-hyoid groove between the mandible on the outer side, and the internal ptery- goid muscle and the outer surface of the submaxillary gland on the inner side. In the anterior part of the digastric triangle it is continued forwards between the an- terior part of the submaxillary gland and the mylo-hyoideus, and it breaks up into branches which supply the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastric (fig. 703). The inferior dental plexus is formed by a series of branches which communicate with one another within the bone, giving rise to a fine network. From this plexus two sets of branches are given off:—the inferior dental branches, corresponding in number to the roots of the teeth, enter the minute foramina at the apices of the roots and end in the pulp; the second set, the inferior gingival branches, supply the gums. The mental nerve is a nerve of considerable size which emerges through the mental foramen (fig. 703). It communicates, near its exit from the bone, with branches of the facial nerve, and then divides into three branches. The smallest branch, turning downwards, divides into several twigs, the mental branches, which supply the chin. The other two, inferior labial branches, pass upwards, diverging as they ascend, and divide into a number of twigs. The stoutest twigs ramify to the mucous mem- brane which lines the lower lip. Other twigs are distributed to the integument and fascia of the lip and chin. The Auriculo-temporal Nerve usually arises from the posterior portion of the mandibular nerve by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery and unite behind it to form the trunk of the nerve. The trunk passes backwards on the inner aspect of the pterygoideus externus, and between the spheno-mandibular ligament and the temporo-mandibular articulation, lying in close relation with the capsule of the joint. Behind the joint it enters the upper part of the parotid gland, through which it turns upwards and outwards. It emerges from the upper end of the gland, crosses the root of the zygoma close to the posterior border of the superficial temporal artery, and divides into auricular and temporal terminal branches at the level of the tragus of the pinna (fig. 703). Communications.—(a) Each of the two roots of the nerve receives a com- munication from the otic ganglion containing fibres derived from the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve. These fibres have passed through the tympanic plexus and the small superficial petrosal nerve. (b) Communicating filaments pass from the auriculo-temporal nerve to the tem- poro-facial branch of the facial nerve. (c) Filaments of connection with the sympathetic plexus on the internal max- illary artery. (d) A communication to the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve. Branches.—(a) An articular branch to the temporo-mandibular joint, given off as the nerve lies on the inner side of the capsule. (b) Branches to the external auditory meatus. Two branches, as a rule, are given off in the parotid gland. They enter the meatus by passing between the cartilage and the bone and supply the upper part of the meatus, the membrana tympani by a fine branch, and occasionally the lower branch gives twigs to the skin of the lobule. (c) Parotid branches are distributed to the substance of the parotid gland. They spring either directly from the nerve or from the communicating branches to the facial nerve, and they contain fibres derived from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which pass successively through its tympanic branch, the tympanic plexus, the small superficial petrosal nerve, the otic ganglion, and through the communicating twigs from the otic ganglion to the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve.