776 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM THE BRAIN OR ENCEPHALON The brain is that greatly modified and enlarged portion of the central nervous system which is enclosed within the cranial cavity. It is surrounded and supported by the same three membranes (meninges) that envelope the spinal cord. While there is a considerable subdural space, the brain more nearly fills its cavity than does the spinal cord. Exclusive of its dura mater, it weighs from 1100 to 1700 gm. (40-60 oz.), varying in weight with the stature of the individual or with the bulk of the tis- sues to be innervated. Its average weight is 1360 gm. (48 oz.) in males and 1250 gm. (44 oz.) in females. It averages about fifty times heavier than the spinal cord, or about 98 per cent, of the entire cerebro-spinal axis. In its precocious growth it is at birth relatively much larger than at maturity. At birth it comprises about 12 per cent, of the total body-weight, while at maturity it averages only about 2 per cent, of the weight of the body. Its proportion to the body-weight averages somewhat higher in smaller individuals. Its specific gravity averages 1.036. Fig. 575.—Mesial Section of the Head of a Female Thirty-five Years Old. The differences between the meninges of the brain and those of the spinal cord occur chiefly in the dura mater. (1) The dura mater is about double the thickness of that of the spinal cord, and consists of two closely adhering layers, the outermost of which serves as the internal peri- osteum of the cranial bones. (2) The inner layer is duplicated in places into strong partitions which extend between the great natural divisions of the encephalon. Of these, the sickle-shaped Jalx cerebri extends between the hemispheres of the cerebrum, the crescentic tentorium cerebclh extends between the cerebellum and the overlapping posterior portion of the cerebrum, and the smaller falx cerebelli occupies the notch between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Contained within these partitions of the dura mater are the great collecting venous sinuses of the brain. These will be considered in the more detailed description of the cranial meninges. General topography—In its dorsal aspect or convex surface the encephalon is oval in contour, with its frontal pole usually narrower than its occipital pole. Viewed from above, the cerebrum comprises almost the entire dorsal aspect, the occipital lobes overlapping the cerebellum to such an extent that only the lateral and lower margins of the cerebellar hemispheres are visible. The great longitu- dinal fissure of the cerebrum, separating the cerebral hemispheres, begins on the ventral surface of the occipital lobes and extends anteriorly and ventrally between the frontal lobes, so as to be evident on the base of the brain.