1053 THE MIDDLE EAR plicae, the pars flaccida, or Shrapnell's membrane, is thin and flaccid, and is attached directly to the petrous bone in the tympanic notch (notch of Rivinus). The larger part of the tympanic membrane, the pars tensa, is inferior to the plicae and is tightly stretched. Its thickened margin, the limbus, is attached by a fibro-cartilaginous annulus to the tympanic sulcus, and at the spines of the tympanic ring is continuous with the plicae. Structure of the tympanic membrane.—The tympanic membrane is about 1 mm. thick, and consists of four layers. The lateral cutaneous layer is very thick, and is a continuation of the cutaneous layer of the external acoustic meatus. Next to it is a radiate fibrous layer, composed of connective tissue, the fibres of which are attached to the manubrium of the malleus and radiate from it. The circular fibrous layer, which has its fibres arranged concentrically and is especially thick at the circumference, is closely bound to the radiate layer, and, finally, the mucous layer, which is a continuation of the mucosa of the tympanic cavity, covers the medial surface of the membrane smoothly, except where the manubrium of the malleus causes a projection. The fibrous layers are attached to the fibro-cartilaginous ring and are lacking in the pars flaccida. The tympanic cavity is an air-space lined with mucous membrane and situated between the external and internal ears (fig. 747). It measures about 15 mm. in both ventro-dorsal and vertical directions, and its width varies from 2 mm. to 4 mm. or more, being narrowest at the centre and wider superiorly than inferiorly. It pre- Fig. 748.—Lateral Surface of the Left Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged from life.) Para flaccida or Shrapnell's membrane Posterior plica MALLEOLAR PROMIi LATERAL PROCE UMBO, CORRE MANUBRIU LONG PROCESS OF INCUS ■MALLEOLAR STRIA Para tensa of tympanic membrane sents for examination six walls, each of which is named from the principal structure which is in relation with it and also from its position. These walls have been par- tially described in connection with the temporal bone (pp. 66, 67), so that it will be necessary here merely to name the various parts. The tegmental (superior) wall is roofed by the thin tegmen tympani (fig. 751). At its lateral edge, in the infant, is the petrosquamous suture, and in this situation an occasional slight deficiency of the roof may persist. The jugular wall or floor separates the cavity from the jugular fossa, and presents a prominence corre- sponding to the base of. the styloid process, and numerous depressions. Upon the mastoid (posterior) wall may be noted inferiorly, additional tympanic cellulce (fig. 749), and above these is the pyramidal eminence with the tendon of the sta- pedius muscle emerging from its apex, and superiorly the chorda tympani nerve, issuing from its canal. Superior to these are a depression, the posterior sinus, a fossa, which marks the attachment of the posterior ligament of the incus, and the opening into the tympanic (mastoid) antrum. The tympanic (mastoid) antrum leads posteriorly and inferiorly into the mastoid air-cells, which are described on pp. 61, 65, 67, and anteriorly connects with the superior part of the tympanic cavity, epitympanic recess, or attic (fig. 751), which extends inferiorly to the level of the tym- panic membrane and superiorly to the tegmen tympani. The prominence of the facial (Fallopian) canal and the prominence of the lateral semicircidar canal are seen superiorly, partly upon the posterior, but mainly upon the medial wall. The car-