1044 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE (2) Lachrymal, supplying the lachrymal gland, anastomosing with a branch of the maxillary in the orbit, and finally piercing the upper eyelid. Outside the orbit it is distributed to the outer part of the upper lid, the conjunctiva at the ex- ternal canthus, and the skin between this and the temporal region. (3) Naso-ciliary, giving off—(a) a branch to the ciliary ganglion, constituting its long root; (6) two or three long ciliary nerves; and (c) the infratrochlear, passing out of the orbit. The nerve then leaves the orbit as the anterior ethmoidal nerve, re-entering the cranial cavity before being finally distributed to the nose. The infratrochlear branch supplies the eyelids and skin of the side of the nose near the inner canthus, the lachrymal sac, caruncle, and plica semilunaris. The anterior ethmoidal nerve, after its course in the cranial cavity, passes through an aperture in the front of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and is ultimately distributed to the nasal mucous membrane, and to the skin of the side and ridge of the nose near its tip. 2. The maxillary division of the fifth nerve gives a branch, called the zygo- matic nerve, which passes into the orbit through the inferior orbital fissure, anas- tomoses with the lachrymal, and leaves the orbit in two divisions. These are dis- tributed to the skin of the temple and of the prominent part of the cheek. A few minute twigs from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and sometimes from the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, also pass through the inferior orbital fissure to supply the periorbita in this neighbourhood. C. The sympathetic nerves of the orbit are mainly derived from the plexus on the internal carotid. With the exception of branches accompanying the ophthalmic artery, and of the distinct sympathetic root of the ciliary ganglion, they enter the orbit in the substance of the other nerve-cords. The connections between the ocular nerves and the carotid plexus are recognisable as fibres going to the third, sixth, and ophthalmic nerves; as a rule, the comparatively large twigs going to the sixth join it furthest back, and those to the third furthest forwards. Sympathetic connections with the fourth nerve are very doubtful. The special courses of the motor fibres to the dilator pupillse have already been described. The ciliary ganglion is situated between the optic nerve and external rectus far back in the orbit. Its three roots—motor, sensory, and sympathetic—have been already mentioned. Anteriorly, it gives off three to six small trunks, which sub- divide to form the short ciliary nerves, about twenty in number, piercing the sclerotic around the optic nerve entrance. The lymphatic system of the orbit.—Although there are no lymphatic ves- sels or glands in the orbit, the passage of lymph is nevertheless well provided for. We have already observed the lymph channels within, between, and outside the sheaths of the optic nerve, and have seen how these communicate anteriorly with the lymph channels of the eyeball, and posteriorly with the intracranial meningeal spaces. In addition, there are lymph-spaces around the blood-vessels, situated between the outer coat and the loose investment furnished by the muscle fascia. The nerves of the orbit (apart from the optic) are probably similarly surrounded by lymph-spaces. In the absence of lymphatic vessels it is difficult to trace the circulation thoroughly; much of the lymph from the orbital cavity is said to pass into the parotid nodes. The Eyelids The cutaneous and conjunctival surfaces of the lids have already been examined, and the position of the tarsus has been indicated. We have now to ascertain the nature and relations of the tarsus, and describe the other tissues entering into the formation of the eyelids. The skin here is thin, bearing fine hairs, and having small sebaceous and numerous small sweat-glands. Immediately beneath it is a loose subcutaneous tissue, des- titute of fat, separating the skin from the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle. The lid-fibres of this muscle arise from the inner palpebral ligament, and course over the whole upper and lower eyelids in a succession of arches, so as to meet again beyond the outer canthus; there they in part join one another, in part are inserted into the outer palpebral raphe. The muscular fibres are arranged in loose bundles, with spaces between them occupied by connective tissue; in the upper lid these connective-tissue fibres may be traced upwards and backwards into the fibrous expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebral superioris. One strong