DISTRIBUTION OF THE CUTANEOUS NERVES 997 through the posterior femoral cutaneous (small sciatic) nerve, and the lower middle area by the first and second sacral nerves through the sural (external saphenous) nerve. The outer area is supplied by the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves through the lateral sural cutaneous (fibular communicating) of the common peroneal (external popliteal) nerve (fig. 710). The skin of the dorsum of the foot is supplied principally by the fourth and fifth lumbar and by the first sacral nerves; the majority of the nerve-fibres travel by the superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous) nerve, but the adjacent sides of the first and second toes are supplied by the femoral (anterior crural) nerve and the outer side of the dorsum of the little toe is supplied by the first and second sacral nerves through the sural (external saphenous) (fig. 710). The skin of the region of the heel is supplied by the first and second sacral nerves, the inner surface and inner part of the under surface by the medial calcaneal branches of the tibial (calcaneo-plantar) nerve and the posterior, external, and lower aspects by the sural (external saphenous) nerve (fig. 710). Fig. 714.—Diagram of the Cutaneous Areas of the Lower Extremity. (After Thorburn.) The sole of the foot in front of the heel receives cutaneous fibres from the last two lumbar and the first two sacral nerves; the inner area, which includes the inner three and a half digits, being supplied by the medial plantar nerve which conveys fibres of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerves; and the outer area by the first and second sacral nerves through the lateral plantar nerve. The inner side of the foot is supplied by the third and fourth lumbar nerves through the saphenous nerve and the outer side by the first and second sacral nerves through the sural (external saphenous) nerve (fig. 710). The skin of the scrotum and penis is supplied by the first lumbar nerve through the ilio-inguinal nerves, and the second and third sacral nerves through the perineal and dorsal penile branches of the pudendal (pudic) nerve (fig. 710). The cutaneous areas of the lower extremity which have been demarcated by Head and Thorburn are shown in figs. 713 and 714.