Sghool of Medicine THE CRANIAL DURA MATER. |jy Qp |_E S87 glistening, being lined by a layer of endothelium and containing a small amount of the cerebro-spinal lymph. The subdural cavity of the base of the brain is prolonged a short distance outwards along the roots of the various cranial nerves before it is obliterated by the blending of the dura mater with the sheaths of the nerves. This outward extension of the space is most marked about the optic and auditory nerves. In the optic especially, the dura mater remains separate from the nerve throughout its length, only fusing with its sheath upon the posterior surface of the bulbus oculi (fig. 658). One of the most striking differences between the cranial dura mater and that of the spinal cord is that the inner layer of the former undergoes striking septa-like duplications or folds, forming exceedingly strong partitions which project between the larger subdivisions of the encephalon. These are four in number, two large and two small—the falx cerebri and the tentorium eerebelli; the falx eerebelli and the diaphragma sellae. The larger enclose within their folds the great venous sinuses, into which most of the spent blood of the encephalon collects to pass outwards by way of the internal jugular veins. Fig. 659.—Coronal Section of the Head, Passing through the Posterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) Transverse sinus CORPUS DENTATUM Tentorium cerebeUi The falx cerebri is the most striking of these partitions. It is a sickle-shaped fold which projects vertically from the vault into the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres. It begins attached to the crista galli in front, and arches backwards to terminate by blending with the superior surface of the horizontally placed tentorium eerebelli. Its convex, upper border joins the outer layer of the dura along the medial plane of the vault, and encloses the superior sagittal sinus. Its concave border is free and contains in its posterior two-thirds the smaller inferior sagittal sinus. The anterior and narrower end is often perforated and occasionally so much so as to appear as a coarse, fibrous reticulum. The posterior part of the con- cave border touches the upper surface of the corpus callosum, but the anterior part, which does not descend so low, is separated from the corpus callosum by a part of the subarachnoid space. The base of the fold which slopes downwards and backwards and blends with the upper surface of the tentorium eerebelli, contains the straight sinus running along the line of junction. The tentorium eerebelli is a large semilunar fold, concave forwards. It de-