THE SPINAL NERVES 907 fibres. Thus the white rami have been termed the visceral divisions of the spinal nerves. The grey rami consist chiefly of sympathetic fibres, most of which are non- medullated or partially medullated, and which course to their distribution by way of the spinal nerves. Some of the sympathetic fibres terminate in the spinal ganglion, afferent sympathetic fibres (fig. 673). The usual absence of white rami communi- cantes from the cervical nerves is explained on the grounds—(1) that probably relatively few efferent splanchnic fibres are given to the sympathetic from this region of the cord; (2) that many of the efferent splanchnic fibres which do arise from this region of the cord probably join the rootlets of the spinal accessory or eleventh cranial nerve and pass to the sympathetic system through the trunk of this nerve, and through the vagus with which it anastomoses; and (3) that such of these fibres as are given off from the lower segments of this region, descend the cord and pass out by way of the upper thoracic nerves which give very evident white rami to the sympathetic. The meningeal or recurrent branch (figs. 672, 673, and 685) is very small and variable, and is seldom seen in ordinary dissections. It is given off from the nerve- trunk just before its anterior and posterior primary divisions are formed. It con- sists of a few peripheral branches of spinal ganglion-cells (sensory fibres) which leave the nerve-trunk and re-enter the vertebral canal for the innervation of the meninges, and which are joined by a twig from the grey ramus or directly from the nearest sympathetic ganglion (vaso-motor fibres). There is considerable evidence, both physiological and anatomical, obtained chiefly from the animals, which shows that at times certain of the peripheral spinal ganglion or sensory fibres may turn back- wards in the nerve-trunk and pass to the meninges within the ventral root instead of contributing to a recurrent branch. The occurrence of such fibres in the ventral root explains the physiological phenomenon known as 'recurrent sensibility.' Like- wise, sympathetic fibres entering the trunk through the grey ramus may pass to the meninges by way of the ventral root, and at times the recurrent branch is probably absent altogether, its place being taken entirely by the meningeal fibres passing in the ventral root. Areas of distribution of the spinal nerves.—Both the posterior and anterior primary divisions divide and subdivide repeatedly, and their component fibres are distributed to areas of the body more or less constant for the nerves of each pair, but the distribution of the different nerves is very variable. Corresponding to their attachment, each to a given segment of the spinal cord, the nerves have primarily a segmental distribution, but, owing to the developmental changes and displacement of parts during the growth of the body, the segmental distribution becomes greatly obscured and in some nerves practically obliterated. Naturally it is more retained by the nerves supplying the trunk than by those contributing to the innervation of the limbs and head, and the areas supplied by the posterior primary divisions are less disturbed than those supplied by the anterior. The segmental areas of cutaneous distribution of the posterior divisions are more evident than the areas of muscle supplied by these divisions, from the fact that the segmental myotomes from which the dorsal muscles arise fuse together and overlap each other considerably during development. No nerve has a definitely prescribed area of distribution, cutaneous or muscular, for its area is always considerably overlapped by the areas of the nerves adjacent to it. The mid-thoracic nerves more nearly supply a definitely prescribed belt of the body. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS The posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves spring from the trunks immediately outside the intervertebral foramina, and they pass backwards between the adjacent transverse processes. With the exceptions of the first and second cer- vical nerves they are smaller than the corresponding anterior primary divisions, and after passing between the transverse processes into the region of the back they divide into medial and lateral branches. This division, however, does not occur in the cases of the first cervical, the last two sacral, and the coccygeal nerves. Cervical Nerves The posterior primary division of the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve is larger than the anterior primary division. It springs from the trunk, between