989 DISTRIBUTION OF THE CUTANEOUS NERVES cervical nerves, forming with them a loop, the ansa hypoglossi (fig. 707). The ansa hypoglossi may be placed at any level from a point immediately below the occipital artery to about four centimetres above the sternum. A twig to the ante- rior belly of the omo-hyoid arises from the descendens hypoglossi in the upper part of its course. The nerves which supply the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid, and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid are given off by the ansa hypoglossi. Twigs from the first two nerves pass downwards in the muscles behind the manubrium sterni and in rare cases communicate with the phrenic nerve within the thorax. The nerve to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid runs in a loop of the cervical fascia below the central tendon of the muscle. (b) The nerve to the thyreo-hyoid is given off near the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and runs obliquely downwards and inwards to reach the muscle. (3) The true hypoglossal branches, the • rami linguales, supply the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-glossus, the genio-hyoid, and the intrinsic muscular fibres of the tongue. The nerve to the stylo-glossus is given off near the posterior border of the hyo-glossus. It pierces the stylo-glossus, and its fibres pursue a more or less re- current course within the muscle. The nerves to the hyo-glossus are several twigs which are supplied to the muscle as the hypoglossal nerve crosses it. The nerves to the genio-glossus and genio-hyoid arise under cover of the mylo-hyoid in common with the terminal branches to the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. They communicate freely with branches of the lingual, forming long loops which lie on the genio-glossus. From these loops twigs pass into the genio- glossus and into the muscular substance of the tongue. It is not improbable that the fibres to the genio-hyoid are really derived from the cervical nerves. Central Connections.—The nucleus of origin of the hypoglossus is associated with the som- a^sthetic area (operculum) of the cortex cerebri of the opposite side by the pyramidal fibres, and it is connected with the sensory nuclei (nuclei of termination) of other cranial nerves by the medial longitudinal fasciculus. THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CUTANEOUS BRANCHES OF THE SEN- SORY AND MIXED CRANIAL AND SPINAL NERVES The cutaneous filaments of the sensory and mixed nerves are distributed to definite regions of the surface of the body which are known as 'cutaneous areas.' Each cutaneous area has one special nerve of supply and the central part of the area receives that nerve alone, but wherever the borders of two areas meet they reciprocally overlap, therefore each margin of every cutaneous area has two nerves of supply, its own nerve and that of an adjacent area, and of these, sometimes one and sometimes the other preponderates. The Cutaneous Areas of the Scalp The limits of the cutaneous areas in the scalp region are indicated in figs. 708, 710, but in general terms it may be said that the skin of the scalp in front of the pinna is supplied by four cutaneous nerves, viz., the mesial part by the supratrochlear and the supra-orbital branches of the first division of the trigeminus, and the lateral part by the temporal branch of the second division, and the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the same nerve. The portion of the scalp behind the pinna also receives four cutaneous nerves; laterally it is supplied by the great auricular and small occipital branches of the cervical plexus which contain filaments from the second and third cervical nerves, and medially it receives the great and smallest occipital nerves which are derived from the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions of the second and third cervical nerves respectively. The Cutaneous Areas of the Face With the exception of the skin over the posterior part of the masseter muscle the whole of the skin of the face is supplied by the branches of the trigeminus. The