THE MESENCEPHALON 819 fibres which, by way of the ciliary ganglion, supply the two intrinsic muscles con- cerned, viz., the ciliary muscle and the sphincter iridis. The nucleus of the oculomotor is connected with the remainder of the optic ap- paratus—(1) by way of the neurones of the superior quadrigeminate body with the optic tract (retina) and the occipital part of the cerebral cortex; (2) by way of the medial longitudinal fasciculus with the nuclei of the trochlear and abducens (the latter making possible the co-ordinate action of the external and internal recti for the conjugate eye movements produced by these muscles), and with the nucleus of the facial (associating the innervation of the levator palpebrse with that of the or- bicularis oculi); (3) with the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves, especially the auditory, by way of the lemniscus and medial longitudinal fasciculus. It is probably connected with the cerebellum by way of the brachia conjunctiva and red nuclei. The eminence representing the inferior quadrigeminate body proper consists of an oval mass of grey substance, the nucleus of the inferior colliculus, containing nu- merous nerve-cells, most of which are of small size. A thin superficial lamina of white substance, the stratum zonale, forms its outermost boundary, and fibres from the lateral lemniscus enter it laterally and from below. Near the lateral margin of the central grey substance occurs the beginning of the inferior brachmm, a bundle con- taining fibres to and from the medial geniculate body and the thalamus. The lemniscus at this level is considered in two parts. The more lateral portion of the horizontal arrangement assumed in the pons has here spread dorso-laterally, and occupies a position in the lateral margin of the section, and is known as the lateral lemniscus, while the medial portion which remains practically horizontal in the tegmentum is distinguished as the medial lemniscus. (See fig. 609.) In the upper portion of the lateral lemniscus occurs a small, scattered mass of grey sub-