THE OPTIC NERVE 959 cribrosa of the ethmoid bone directly into the olfactory bulb. The second nerve is also a nerve of special sense. Its fibres form a very distinct bundle, similar in appearance to an ordinary nerve, from which, however, it differs essentially, both with regard to structure and development; for, unlike an ordinary nerve, its con- nective tissue consists to a large extent of neuroglia instead of ordinary connective tissue, and its component nerve-fibres are of much smaller calibre than those of an ordinary nerve. It represents the location of the original optic stalk, a diverticulum from the neural tube. The optic nerve, therefore, corresponds more closely with an association tract of the central system than with an ordinary nerve. The third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth nerves are purely motor nerves, and thus correspond only with the ventral roots of spinal nerves. The eleventh nerve is also purely motor. Its fibres arise from the cells of the anterior horn of the spinal cord and from a nucleus of the medulla which represents a displaced portion of that horn, but they do not leave the surface of the spinal cord and brain in the usual situation of ventral roots. On the contrary, they emerge in a series of rootlets from the lateral column of the cord on the dorsal side of the ligamentum denticulatum, and from the upward prolongation of the postero-lateral sulcus. The eighth or acoustic nerve is a nerve of special sense, and in some respects both its parts correspond closely with the dorsal root of a typical spinal nerve, and the ganglia of both its parts represent spinal ganglia, but its distribution is limited to the sense organ. The ninth and tenth nerves contain both motor and sensory fibres, but they differ from typical spinal nerves because the motor fibres, in company with the sensory, issue from the postero-lateral sulcus of the medulla, and they are intimately inter- mingled, from their origin, with the sensory fibres, which latter arise from ganglia interposed in the nerves and otherwise correspond with the fibres of the dorsal root of a typical spinal nerve. Superficial Attachments and Origins.—It is customary to speak of the area where the nerve-fibres leave or enter the brain substance as the superficial attachment of the cranial nerves, and the group of cells from which the fibres spring as their cells of origin. THE FIRST PAIR—THE OLFACTORY NERVES ' The olfactory nerve-fibres are the central processes of the bipolar olfactory cells situated in the olfactory region of the mucous membrane of the septal and outer walls of the nasal fossa above the level of the lower border of the superior nasal concha. As the fibres pass upwards from their cells of origin they form plexuses in the mucous membrane, and from the upper parts of these plexuses, immediately below the lamina cribrosa of the ethmoid, about twenty filaments issue on each side. These filaments comprise the olfactory nerve. They are non-medullated. They pass up- wards, through the foramina in the lamina cribrosa, into the anterior fossa of the cranium in two rows, and after piercing the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pia mater, they enter the lower surface of the olfactory bulb. They pass through the superficial stratum of nerve-fibres on the inferior surface of the olfactory bulb and end in the glomeruli, which are formed by the terminal ramifications of the olfactory nerve-fibres intermingled with the similar ramifications of the main dendrites of the large mitral cells which lie in the deeper part of the grey substance of the olfactory bulb. The olfactory nerve-fibres are grey fibres, since they do not possess medullary sheaths, and they are bound together into nerves by connective-tissue sheaths de- rived from the pia mater, from the subarachnoid tissue, and from the dura mater. Prolongations of the subarachnoid space pass outwards along the nerves for a short distance. Central Connections.—The olfactory impulses are transmitted by way of the olfactory nerve- fibres through the glomeruli to the mitral cells, and they are carried to the cerebrum by the central processes (axones) of the mitral cells, which pass backwards along each olfactory tract and its three stria? olfactoria? (see Rhinencephalon, p. 844). THE SECOND PAIR—THE OPTIC NERVES The fibres of the optic nerve are the central processes of the ganglion cells of the retina. Within the bulbus oculi they converge to the optic papilla, where they are