THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 837 parallel with the central sulcus of Rolando above, and divides the island into a larger anterior and a smaller posterior portion. The anterior portion consists of from three to five short irregular gyri breves or precentral gyri, separated by sulci breves; the posterior portion consists of a single, slightly furrowed gyrus, which is long and arched and extends from the apex to the base of the triangle, the gyrus longus. The frontal lobe.—This is the most anterior of the lobes of the hemisphere, and like the two lobes behind, it has a convex or outer, a basal, and a mesial surface. The convex surface begins with the frontal pole, and is bounded posteriorly by the central sulcus (Rolandi); the basal surface extends backwards to the stem of the lateral fissure, covered by the frontal pole; and the mesial surface is separated from the gyrus cinguli of the rhinencephalon (limbic lobe) by the sub-frontal part of the sulcus cinguli (calloso-marginal fissure), and from the parietal lobe by a line drawn perpendicularly from the upper extremity of the central sulcus (Rolandi) to the sulcus cinguli. These surfaces include the following gyri and sulci:— Gyri. Anterior central gyrus. Superior frontal gyrus. , i i f Superior portion. Middle frontal gyrus < T F ■ 1 .• 6J ^ Interior portion. (" Opercular portion. Inferior frontal gyrus ■! Triangular portion. « ( Orbital portion. Orbital gyri External. Anterior. Posterior. [ luternal. Gyrus rectus. Superior frontal gyrus. Marginal gyrus. Paracentral lobule (anterior part). Precentral sulcus Sulci. I Superior. \ Inferior. Superior frontal sulcus. Middle frontal sulcus Inferior frontal sulcus. Anterior ascending ramus of lateral fissure. Anterior horizontal ramus of lateral fissure. | External. Orbital sulci -J Internal. (. Transverse. Olfactory sulcus. Eostral sulci. Many of the sulci, especially the superior frontal and the rostral sulci, often give off twigs or are broken up into short furrows which give rise to small folds (gyri transitivi), too inconstant to be given special names. The anterior central gyrus (ascending frontal convolution) is the only gyrus of the frontal lobe having a vertical direction. It lies parallel to the central sulcus (Rolandi), and thus extends obliquely across the convex surface from the posterior ramus of the lateral fissure (frontal operculum) to the supero-mesial border, and is continuous on the mesial surface into the anterior portion of the para-central lobule. It comprises a large part of the anterior portion of the somsesthetic (sensory-motor) area of the cerebral cortex. It is separated from the horizontal gyri in front by the precentral sulcus. This sulcus is developed in three parts, but the upper and middle parts in the fcetal brain usually fuse together, so that in the later condition it consists of a superior and an inferior section. The superior cuts the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere and appears on the mesial surface in the paracentral lobule. On the convex surface it is usually connected with the posterior end of the superior frontal sulcus. The superior frontal gyrus is a relatively broad, uneven convolution, comprising the anterior portion of the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, and therefore extends horizontally from the precentral sulcus to the frontal pole. It is sometimes imperfectly divided into a superior and an inferior part by a series of detached, ir- regular furrows, spoken of collectively as the para-medial sidcus. The resulting gyri transitivi are of interest in that they are peculiar to the human brain, and are said to be more marked in the higher than in the lower types. The middle frontal gyrus is likewise a broad strip of pallium extending from the precentral sulcus to the temporal pole. It is separated from the superior frontal gyrus by the superior frontal sulcus, which is usually continuous into the superior section of the precentral sulcus and thence extends horizontally to the frontal pole. The middle frontal gyrus is in most cases subdivided anteriorly into a superior and an inferior portion by a middle frontal sulcus. This sulcus begins above and runs