THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 878 from the posterior end of the spheno-parietal suture along the anterior part of the squamo- parietal suture to its highest point; thence it continues in the same direction beneath the parietal bone towards the lambda, terminating either in front of or below the parietal eminence. In the child, however, the fissure is considerably above the line of the squamo-parietal suture (fig. 652), which it gradually approaches, attaining its adult position about the ninth year. This change of position, which occurs during the first nine years, is due partly to the ascent of the sutural fine and partly to the descent of the fissure on the surface of the brain. The frontal bone always covers the superior, middle, and inferior frontal gyri, except their posterior extremities, which are beneath the parietal bone (fig. 651). The ascending limb (ramus anterior ascendens) of the lateral fissure, which cuts into the posterior part of the inferior frontal gyrus, runs parallel with and under cover of the lower part of the coronal suture, or immediately in front of it, and the anterior horizontal limb is parallel with and beneath the upper margin of the great wing of the sphenoid. The parietal bone is in relation with the convex surfaces of four lobes of the brain. Speaking very generally, it may be said that the anterior third covers the posterior part of the frontal lobe, including the anterior central gyrus, and the posterior ends of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal gyri and the precentral sulcus. The posterior two- thirds are superficial to the parietal lobe, the posterior part of the temporal lobe, the anterior part of the occipital lobe, the posterior part of the horizontal limb of the lateral fissure, the upper and lower parts of the post-central sulcus, the interparietal sulcus, the posterior sections of the superior and middle temporal sulci, and the external part of the parieto-occipital fissure. The Fig. 652.—Drawing of a Cast of the Head of a Newly Born Male Infant. (Prepared by Professor Cunningham to illustrate cranio-cerebral topography.) INTERPARI- ETAL SULCUS EXTERNAL PART OF PARIETO- OCCIPITAL FISSURE CENTRAL SULCUS (ROLANDI) POSITION OF PARIETAL EMINENCE POSITION OF FRONTAL EMINENCE LATERAL FISSURE SUPERIOR TEMPORAL SULCUS central sulcus is beneath the parietal bone at the junction of its middle and anterior thirds (fig. 651). In the adult, the upper end of the central sulcus lies 55 per cent, of the whole length of the naso-inionic line behind the nasion. It is 55 mm. from the coronal suture in dolichocephalic, and 54'4 mm. in brachycephalic, heads. The lower end of the sulcus, which is immediately above the posterior horizontal limb of the lateral fissure, lies beneath the point of intersection of the auriculo-bregmatic line with a line drawn from the stephanion (the point where the temporal ridge cuts the coronal suture) to the asterion. In skulls of a sagittal length of 18 cm. and over, this point is 45"5 per cent, of the horizontal arc from the glabella to the inion, and in skulls of less than 18 cm. it is 46 per cent, of the same arc posterior to the glabella. The upper end of the parieto-occipital fissure usually lies about 5 mm. in front of the lambda, and the course of the fissure may be indicated by a line drawn from 5 mm. in front of the lambda to a point immediately above the asterion, and, as the latter point corresponds with the pre- occipital notch on the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere, the line in question will indicate the adjacent margins of the parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes. The occipital bone is in close relation with the cerebellum, as already pointed out, but it also covers the posterior part of the outer surface of the occipital lobe of the cerebral hemisphere. The great wing of the sphenoid covers the outer surface of the apex of the temporal lobe, and the squamous part of the temporal bone covers the anterior parts of the superior, middle, and inferior temporal gyri and the sulci which separate them.