915 THE CERVICAL PLEXUS spread out after the manner of a fan, and, as they approach the middle line, extend from the chin to the sternum (fig. 677). The upper two or three of these twigs unite, beneath the platysma, with the cervical (inframandibular) branch of the facial and thus form loops. From the terminal branches of the nerve numerous twigs arise which pierce the platysma and end in the skin of the front part of the neck. The descending or supra-clavicular branches.—These are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves (figs. 675 and 676), and arise under cover of the sterno- mastoid. At their commencements they are usually united with the muscular branches destined for the trapezius. They become superficial at the middle of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and as they pass downwards they pierce the deep cervical fascia. (1) The anterior supra-clavicular (suprasternal) branches (fig. 677) are small, and cross over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid to reach the integument over the upper part of the manubrium sterni. They also supply the sterno-clavicular joint. (2) The middle supra-clavicular (supra- clavicular) nerves are of considerable size. They cross in front of the middle third of the clavicle under cover of the platysma, and are distributed to the skin covering the upper part of the pectoralis major as low as the third rib. (3) The posterior supra-clavicular (supra-acromial) branches (fig. 677) cross the clavi- cular insertion of the trapezius and the acromion process. They are distributed to the skin which covers the upper two-thirds of the deltoid muscle and they supply the acromio-clavicular joint. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus The deep branches of the plexus pass outwards and dorsalwards, or ventralwards and inwards; therefore they form two series, the external and the internal. The external branches of the deep series include communicating branches from the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves to the spinal accessory nerve, and muscular branches to the sterno-mastoid and the scalenus medius, levator scapula?, and trapezius. The communicating branches of the external.—The communicating branch from the second cervical nerve is ultimately distributed to the sterno-mastoid, and those from the third and fourth nerves end in the trapezius. 1. The Nerve to the Sterno-mastoid arises from the second cervical nerve (fig. 677). It pierces the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid, and communicates within the muscle with the spinal accessory nerve. 2. The Nerves to the Scalenus Medius (fig. 676) are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina. 3. The Nerves to the Levator Scapulae (fig. 676) are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and occasionally from the second. They pierce the super- ficial surface of the levator scapula?, and supply the upper three divisions of that muscle. 4. The branches to the Trapezius (fig. 676) are usually in the form of two stout twigs which are given off by the third and fourth cervical nerves. They emerge from under cover of the sterno-mastoid at its posterior border and cross the posterior superior triangle of the neck at a lower level than the spinal accessory nerve (fig. 677). They pass under cover of the trapezius in company with the last-named nerve, and communicate with it to form the subtrapezial plexus, from which the trapezius is supplied. The internal branches of the deep series also comprise communicating and muscular branches. The communicating branches of the internal (figs. 675 and 676) include (1) branches which connect each of the first four cervical nerves with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; (2) a communicating branch to the vagus; (3) a communicating branch to the hypoglossal; and (4) communicating branches which pass from the second and third cervical nerves to the descendens hypoglossi (see p. 988). The ultimate distribution of the twigs connected with the sympathetic and the vagus nerves is not known, but the fibres which pass to the hypoglossal nerve pass from it to the thyreo-hyoideus muscle, and to the descendens hypoglossi, and the latter communicates with the branches from the second and third cervical nerves, forming with them a loop, the ansa hypoglossi, which lies on the carotid