THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 1018 and the inferior vesical nerves, which supply the lower part of the bladder and, in the male, give secondary deferential plexuses to the vas deferens. These plexuses sur- round the vasa deferentia and the vesiculae seminales and anastomose with the spermatic plexuses. The prostatic plexus, found only in the male, is formed in two parts by nerves of considerable size, and lies chiefly on the sides of the prostate gland between it and the levator ani (fig. 722). Each of these parts supplies the gland and the prostatic part of the urethra, and sends offsets to the neck of the bladder and the vesiculae seminales. This plexus is continued forwards on either side to form the cavernous plexus of the penis (fig. 722), which anastomoses with branches of the dorsal nerve of the penis, gives off branches to the membranous part of the urethra, and also gives origin to two sets of nerves, namely, the large and the small cavernous nerves of the penis. The large cavernous nerve, one on each side, runs forwards to the middle of the dorsum of the penis, where it anastomoses with the dorsal nerve of the penis on the corresponding side, and ends in twigs which are distributed chiefly to the corpus caver- nosum penis, but some of the terminal filaments supply the corpus cavernosum urethra? (corpus spongiosum) (fig. 722). The small cavernous nerves are small filaments which pierce the uro-genital trigone (triangular ligament) and the compressor urethras, and enter the posterior part of the corpus cavernosum. The plexus utero-vaginalis, found in the female, is formed in its upper part on each side largely by fibres derived from the pelvic part of the hypogastric plexus, but it receives some fibres from the pelvic splanchnics of the third and fourth sacral nerves. The nerves from this part of the plexus accompany the uterine arteries as they pass between the layers of the broad ligament. Some accompany each uterine artery and its branches to their termination, but a considerable number of fibres leave the artery and pass into the body of the uterus to supply its lower part and cervix. Between the layers of the broad ligament this plexus_ anastomoses with the ovarian plexus and sends some filaments to the tuba uterina (Fallopian tube). The lower part of the plexus utero-vaginalis receives some fibres on each side from the pelvic part of the hypogastric plexus, but it is formed chiefly by efferent splanchnic fibres from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. It supplies the wall and mucous membrane of the vagina and urethra. From the plexus on the anterior surface of the vagina fibres pass to form the cavernous plexus of the clitoris, which gives off the great and lesser cavernous nerves of the clitoris for the supply of the clitoris. The utero-vaginal plexus of the female corresponds to the prostatic plexus of the male.