904 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM Nerves Third thoracic (A) Just above middle of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. Fourth " (A) Just below upper border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of third thoracic vertebra. Fifth " (A) Upper border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. Sixth " (A) Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. (B) Just below upper border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. Seventh " (A) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. Eighth " (A) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between spines of fourth thoracic and fifth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of sixth thoracic vertebra. Ninth " (A) Midway between spines of fifth thoracic and sixth thoracic vertebra. (B) Upper border of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. Tenth " (A) Midway between spines of sixth thoracic and seventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Middle of the spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. Eleventh " (A) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Just above spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. Twelfth " (A) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. (B) Just below spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. First lumbar (A) Midway between spines of eighth thoracic and ninth thoracic vertebra?. (B) Lower border of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. Second " (A) Middle of spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Third " (A) Middle of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. (B) Just below spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Fourth " (A) Just below spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. (B) Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. Fifth " (A) Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. (B) Middle of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. First sacral (A) Just above lower border of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Fifth '' (B) Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. Coccygeal (A) Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. (B) Just below upper border of spine of second lumbar vertebra. Relative size of the nerves.—The size of the different spinal nerves varies greatly. Just as the spinal cord shows marked enlargements in the cervical and lumbar regions necessitated by the greater amount of innervation required of these regions for the structures of the upper and lower limbs, so the nerves attached to these regions are considerably larger than elsewhere. The smaller nerves are found in the two extremities of the series and in the mid-thoracic region. The smallest nerve is the coccygeal, and the next in order of size are the lower sacral and the first two or three cervical nerves. The largest nerves are those which contribute most to the great nerve-trunks for the innervation of the skin and muscles of the limbs:—the lower cervical and first thoracic for the upper limbs and the lower lumbar and first sacral for the lower limbs. The nerves gradually increase in the series in passing from the smaller towards the larger. The primary divisions of the nerve-trunk.—A typical spinal nerve (middle thoracic, for example), just as it emerges from the intervertebral foramen, divides into four branches:—the two large primary divisions; viz., the posterior primary division (ramus posterior) and the anterior primary division (ramus anterior); third, the small ramus communicans, by which it is connected with the sympathetic; and fourth, the smaller, ramus meningeus (recurrent branch), which immediately turns centralwards for the innervation of the membranes of the spinal cord. In general, the posterior primary division passes dorsalwards between the arches or transverse processes of the two adjacent vertebrae in relation with the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and then divides (with the exception of the first cervical,