938 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM psoas it runs downwards on the anterior surface of the muscle (fig. 688), to the outer side of the aorta and the common iliac artery, passes behind the ureter and divides into two branches, an external spermatic or genital, and a lumbo-inguinal or crural (fig. 689). Occasionally it divides in the substance of the psoas, and then the two branches issue separately through the anterior surface of the muscle. The external spermatic (genital) branch runs downwards on the psoas muscle, external to the external iliac artery; it gives a branch to the psoas, and at Poupart's ligament it turns around the inferior epigastric artery and enters the inguinal canal, accompanying the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female. It supplies the cremaster muscle, and gives twigs to the integument of the scrotum (fig. 689) or the labium majus. The lumbo-inguinal (crural) branch passes downwards along the external iliac artery and beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, which it enters to the outer side of the femoral artery. A short distance below Poupart's ligament it pierces the fascia lata or passes through the fossa ovalis (saphenous opening) and supplies the skin in the middle of the upper part of the thigh. A short distance below Poupart's liga- ment it sometimes sends branches of communication to the anterior branch of the lateral cutaneous nerve, and about the middle of the thigh it often communicates with the cutaneous branches of the femoral (anterior crural) nerve. The Lateral Cutaneous Nerve receives fibres from the dorsal branches of the anterior primary divisions of the second and third lumbar nerves, and frequently some fibres from the first lumbar (fig. 693). It emerges from the outer border of the psoas and passes obliquely across the iliacus behind the iliac fascia, and behind the caecum on the right side and the sigmoid colon on the left side, to a point immediately below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it passes below Poupart's liga- ment into the outer angle of the femoral trigone (Scarpa's triangle). Leaving the trigone at once it passes through, behind, or in front of the sartorius and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior, which enter the deep fascia (fig. 689). The posterior branch of the lateral cutaneous nerve breaks up into several secondary branches which become subcutaneous, and they supply the integument of the outer part of the thigh, from the great trochanter to the level of the middle of the femur. The anterior branch runs downwards in a canal in the deep fascia, for three or four inches, before it becomes subcutaneous. It usually divides into two branches, an external and an internal. The external branch supplies the skin of the lower half of the outer side of the thigh, and the internal branch is distributed to the skin of the outer side of the front of the thigh as far as the knee (fig. 689). Its lower filaments frequently unite with the cutaneous branches of the femoral (anterior crural), and with the patellar branch of the saphenous nerve in front of the patella, forming with them the patellar plexus. The Femoral (Anterior Crural) Nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus. It is formed principally by fibres of the dorsal branches of the anterior primary divisions of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, but it sometimes receives fibres from the first nerve also (figs. 688 and 693). It emerges from the outer border of the psoas a short distance above Poupart's ligament, and descends in the groove between the psoas and the iliacus, behind Poupart's ligament, into the femoral trigone (Scarpa's triangle), where it lies to the outer side of the femoral artery (fig. 690), from which it is separated by some of the fibres of the psoas. In this situation it is flattened out and it divides into two series of terminal branches, the superficial and the deep. Branches.—The branches are collateral and terminal. The collateral branches are twigs of supply to the iliacus, and a branch to the femoral artery; they are given off before the nerve enters the femoral trigone. The terminal branches form two groups, the superficial and the deep. The superficial terminal branches are two muscular branches, the nerve to the pectineus, and the nerve to the sartorius, and two anterior cutaneous branches. The nerve to the pectineus passes inwards and downwards behind the femoral sheath and in front of the psoas to the anterior surface of the pectineus, in which it terminates. The nerve to the sartorius accompanies the middle cutaneous nerve; it leaves the latter nerve above the sartorius and ends in the upper part of the muscle. The anterior (middle and internal) cutaneous nerves are best described sepa- rately. The middle cutaneous nerve soon divides into two branches, inner and outer.