THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 756 most rapid in regions corresponding to the mesodermic somites or primitive body segments, and the result is that the neural crest becomes segmented also. The segments or cell-masses thus formed are the beginning not only of the spinal ganglia, but also of the entire sympathetic sys- tem. The cell-masses of the crest migrate to assume a more lateral position, and then occurs a separation in their ranks. A portion of them remain in a dorso-lateral position near the wall of the neural tube and develope into the neurones of the spinal ganglia (the cerebro-spinal sen- sory neurones), but others wander further out into the periphery and become the neurones of the sympathetic. Certain of those of this more nomadic group settle within the vicinity of the vertebral column and form the gangliated cord or the proximal chain of sympathetic ganglia; others migrate further, but in more broken rank, and become the ganglia of the pras- vertebral plexuses or the intermediate chain, while still others wander into the very walls of the peripheral organs and occur singly or in groups in such plexuses as those of Auerbach and Meiss- ner, between the tunics of the walls of the alimentary canal. Scattered along between these proximal, intermediate, and distal groups there are to be found small straggling ganglia, many of which contain so few cell-bodies that they are indistinguishable with the unaided eye. These sympathetic neurones, however, are always either directly or indirectly in connection with and largely under the control of the neurones of the central system through efferent fibres passing either via the rami communicantes or in the peripheral distribution of the cerebro-spinal nerves. From the foregoing it will be seen that a ganglion may be denned as an aggre- gation of cell-bodies of neurones whether sympathetic or cerebro-spinal. As growth proceeds these cell-bodies send out their processes for the reception and transmis- sion of nerve impulses. The cellifugal process, the axone, being in the majority of cases the longer process, is more in evidence. Every ganglion, therefore, will have connected with it bundles of nerve-fibres, some of which bear impulses to its cells from neighbouring ganglia or from the tissues of neighbouring organs: others of which arise from its cells and bear impulses to other ganglia or to the tissues of the organs. Necessarily, the larger the ganglion, the larger will be these bundles of fibres. In the peripheral system the larger of these bundles are given the general name of nerves, the smaller are spoken of as branches, rami, etc. In the central system the larger pathways, especially if mixed, are funiculi, the smaller and those composed of axones of similar functional course are called fasciculi. THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM The central nervous system or organ is an aggregation of ganglia—a large gang- lionated axis situated in the dorsal mid-line of the body—and the bundles of fibres connecting it with the tissues of other systems and with the peripheral ganglia are of necessity correspondingly large. So numerous are the axones connecting these ganglia and so intimately are they associated that a disturbance affecting any one part of the system may extend to influence all other parts. The enlarged cephalic extremity of this central axis, the encephalon, is a special aggregation of ganglia, many of which are much larger than any others found in the body. In the study of the central nervous system its enveloping membranes or meninges are met with first, and logically should be considered first , but since a comprehen- sive description of these membranes involves a foreknowledge of the various struc- tures with which they are related, it is more expedient to consider them after mak- ing a closer study of the entire system they envelope. For convenience of study the central nervous system is separated into the general gross divisions illustrated in fig. 564. Each of these divisions will be subdivided and considered with especial reference to its anatomical and functional relations to the other divisions and the inter-relations of its component parts. THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord or medulla spinalis is the posterior and most attenuated portion of the central nervous system. It is approximately cylindrical in form and termi- nates conically. Its average length in the adult is 44 cm. (18 in.). It averages about 2 cm. longer in the male than in the female. Tt weighs from 26 to 28 gm. or about 2 per cent, of the entire cerebro-spinal axis, and has about z\ the weight of