966 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (c) TheNaso-ciliary (nasal) Nerve enters the orbit between the two heads of the rectus lateralis and between the upper and lower divisions of the oculomotor nerve. In the orbit it lies at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, but, as it runs obliquely for- wards and inwards to the inner wall of the orbital cavity, it crosses above the optic nerve and between it and the rectus superior, and near the border of the rectus medi- alis it divides into its two terminal branches, the infratrochlear and anterior ethmoid (fig- 701). Its several branches are: (i) The long root of the ciliary ganglion which is given off at the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure. It is a slender filament which runs forwards on the outer side of the optic nerve to the upper and back part of the ganglion (fig. 701). (ii) The long ciliary nerves, usually two in number, which arise from the naso- ciliary nerve as the latter is crossing above the optic nerve. They run forwards, on the inner side of the optic nerve, pierce the sclerotic, and are distributed with the lower set of short ciliary nerves (fig. 701). (hi) The posterior ethmoidal (spheno-ethmoidal) branch springs from the posterior border of the naso-ciliary nerve near the upper border of the rectus medialis. It passes through the posterior ethmoidal canal and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus. (iv) The infratrochlear nerve passes forwards between the obliquus superior and the rectus medialis, and under the pulley of the former muscle divides into two branches:—The superior palpebral branch helps to supply the eyelids and usually anastomoses with the supratrochlear nerve. The inferior palpebral branch is distributed to the lachrymal sac, the conjunctiva and skin of the inner part of the Upper eyelid, the caruncle, and the skin of the upper part of the side of the nose. (v) The anterior ethmoidal (distal part of the nasal) nerve, passing forwards and inwards between the obliquus superior and the rectus medialis, leaves the orbit through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, accompanied by the anterior ethmoidal vessels, and enters into the anterior fossa of the cranium (fig. 701). It then crosses the lamina cribrosa of the ethmoid, lying outside the dura mater, which separates it from the olfactory bulb, and descends into the nasal fossa through the ethmoidal fissure, a slit-like aperture at the side of the crista galli. In the nasal fossa it ter- minates by dividing into two sets of anterior nasal branches: the internal nasal branches and the external nasal branch (fig. 699). The internal nasal branches divide into the medial nasal branches (the septal branches of the nasal nerve), which run downwards and forwards on the upper and front part of the septum, and the lateral nasal branches (the external terminal branch of the nasal nerve), which give twigs to the anterior extremities of the supe- rior and middle nasal conchse (turbinated bones), and to the mucous membrane of the lateral wall of the nose (fig. 699). The external nasal branch (the anterior terminal branch of the nasal nerve) runs downwards in a groove on the inner surface of the nasal bone. It pierces the wall of the nose between the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage, and supplies the integument of the lower part of the dorsum of the nose as far as the tip. (2) The Maxillaey Nerve or Second Division of the Trigeminus The maxillary nerve is entirely sensory in function and it is intermediate in size between the ophthalmic and mandibular nerves. It springs from the middle of the anterior border of the semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion and runs forwards in the lower and outer part of the lateral wall of the cavernous sinus (fig. 702). Leaving the middle fossa of the cranium, by passing through the foramen rotundum, it enters the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa (fig. 707), where it is connected with the spheno-palatine ganglion; then, changing its name, it passes forwards, as the infra-orbital nerve, through the inferior orbital (spheno-maxillary) fissure into the infra-orbital sulcus in the floor of the orbit; con- tinuing forwards it traverses the infra-orbital canal accompanied by the infra-orbital artery, and appears in the face, beneath the quadratus (levator) labii superioris and above the caninus (levator anguli oris), where it divides into four sets of terminal branches which anastomose more or less freely with branches of the facial nerve to form the infra-orbital plexus.