1066 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE superior constrictor of the pharynx, all of which are described elsewhere (see pp. 344, 1078, and 1085). The intrinsic muscles.—The longitudinalis superior (fig. 761) is a superficial longitudinal stratum extending from the base to the apex of the tongue, immediately beneath the mucosa of the dorsum, to which many of its fibres are attached. The longitudinalis inferior (fig. 761) is composed of two muscle-bands extending from base to apex on the inferior surface of the tongue, and is situated between the hyo- glossus and the genio-glossus, some of its fibres near the apex mixing with the stylo- glossus, while dorsally some are attached to the hyoid bone. The transversus linguae (fig. 761) consists of fibres which pass transversely, and is situated between the superior and inferior longitudinal muscles. The fibres arise from, or pass through, the septum linguse, and are attached to the mucosa of the dorsum and lateral mar- gins of the tongue. The verticalis linguae (fig. 761) is composed of fibres which pass from the mucosa of the dorsum to the mucosa of the inferior surface of the tongue, interlacing with those of the other intrinsic and extrinsic muscles. Vessels and nerves.—The lingual arteries furnish the principal blood-supply (p. 520, fig. 410). The lingual veins (p. 664) carry the blood from the tongue to the internal jugular. The lymphatics from the ventral portion empty into the submaxillary lymph-nodes and from the pos- terior portion into the deep cervical nodes. The nerves are motor and sensory (fig. 763). The hypoglossal nerve supplies the intrinsic and all the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the glosso-palatinus (palato-glossus), which is supplied from the pharyngeal plexus (p. 984). The sensory nerves are:—the lingual nerve, a branch of the mandibular division of the fifth, which, after joining with the chorda tympani from the seventh, is distributed to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue (p. 969); the lingual branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, which are distributed to the pharyngeal third of the tongue, including the vallate papilla? (p. 981); and the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, which supplies a small area near the epiglottis. The development of the tongue.—The tongue arises from two distinct origins, one of which is paired. The anterior unpaired portion appears as a thickening in the floor of the mouth op- posite the ventral ends of the first branchial arches, while the posterior paired portions are formed from a thickening over the ventral end of the second branchial arch of each side. The anterior portion is received posteriorly between the diverging limbs of the posterior portion, and a fusion of both portions occurs along a V-snaPe(i line, situated immediately behind the line of the vallate papilla, its apex being indicated by the foramen csecum.