935 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS THE LUMBO-SACRAL PLEXUS The lumbo-sacral plexus is formed by the union of the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves. In about 50 per cent, of cases it receives a branch from the twelth thoracic nerve. Partly for convenience of description and partly on account of the differences in position and course of some of the nerves arising from it this plexus is subdivided into four parts—the lumbar, sacral, pudendal, and coccygeal plexuses. These plexuses overlap so that there is no definite line of demarcation between them. However, they will be considered separately. THE L U31BAR NER VES The anterior primary divisions of the five lumbar nerves increase in size from the first to the last. Each lumbar nerve is connected by one or two long, slender branches with a lumbar sympathetic ganglion. The first three and the greater part of the fourth enter into the formation of the lumbar plexus, and the smaller part of the fourth and the fifth nerve commonly unite to form the lumbo-sacral cord which takes part in the formation of the sacral plexus (figs. 687 and 688). When the fourth nerve enters into the formation of both lumbar and sacral plexuses, it may be called the fureal nerve, but this name is also applied to any of the nerves that enter into the formation of both plexuses, so there may be one or more furcal nerves. THE LUMBAR PLEXUS Although the lumbar plexus is ordinarily formed by the first three lumbar nerves and a part of the fourth, yet it is subject to considerable variation in the manner of its formation. Owing to this variation three general classes of plexuses may be found, proximal or pre-fixed, ordinary, and distal or post-fixed. The basis of classi- fication is the relation of the nerves of the limb to the spinal nerves which enter into their formation. The intermediate or slighter degrees of variation may consist only of changes in the size of the portions contributed by the different spinal nerves to a given peripheral nerve, for a given nerve may receive a larger share of its fibres from a more proximal spinal nerve, and a smaller share from a more distal nerve, or vice versa. However, in the more marked degrees of variation the origin of a given per- ipheral nerve may vary in either direction to the extent of one spinal nerve. The more extreme types of the plexuses are sometimes associated with abnormal conditions of the vertebral column. It has been suggested that when the prefixed or proximal condition occurs, it indicates that the lower limb is placed a segment more proximal than in the ordinary cases, and when the distal condition is present, that the limb is arranged a segment more distal. Three types each of the proximal and the distal classes and one type of the ordinary class have -been described by Bardeen. His statistics are made use of in the compilation of the following tables, in which are shown the range of variation and the common composition of each class:— Composition of the Nerves of the Lumbar Plexus Range of Variation Nerve. Proximal. Ordinary. Distal. Lateral (external) cutaneous 12 T, 1, 2, 3 L. 1, 2, 3, 4 L. 1, 2, 3, 4 L. Femoral (anterior crural).. 12 T, 1, 2, 3, 4 L. 1, 2, 3, 4 L. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 L. Obturator 1, 2, 3, 4 L. 1, 2, 3, 4 L. 2, 3, 4, 5 L. Furcal 3 or 3, 4 L. 4 L. 4, 5 or 5 L.