THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 882 plexus mainly by the radicular veins, which pass along the roots of the last four cranial nerves. Those which accompany the hypoglossal nerves have already been referred to. The others end in the terminal parts of the transverse sinuses, the inferior petrosal sinuses, or the lower part of the occipital sinuses. The nerve supply of the blood-vessels of the brain consists of a perivascular plexus of sympa- thetic nerve-fibres upon the walls of the vessels and medullated fibres which accompany the vessels and apparently terminate, for the most part, in the connective tissue about them. The former are thought to be vaso-motor in function; the latter probably sensory fibres of the cerebro-spinal type. Nerves have been described only for the larger vessels. THE MENINGES Three membranes, collectively called the meninges, envelope the entire central nervous system, separate it from the walls of the bony cavities in which it lies, and aid in its protection and support. They consist of feltworks in which white fibrous connective tissue predominates, and through them pass t he blood-vessels which supply the central nerve-axis and the nerves by which the axis is connected with the periphery. Though there are definite spaces or cavities between them, the membranes are not wholly separated from each other, and they are both continuous with and contribute to the walls of the blood-vessels and the sheaths (epineurium) of the nerves passing through them. Beginning with the outermost, they are—(1) the dura mater, the thickest, most dense, and resistant of the membranes; (2) the arachnoid, the much less dense and more serous middle membrane; and (3) the pia mater, a thin, com- pact membrane, closely adapted to the surface of the central system, into which it sends numerous connective-tissue processes. It is highly vascular in that it contains the rich superficial plexuses of blood-vessels from which the intrinsic blood supply of the central system is derived. The space between the dura mater and the arachnoid is known as the sub-dural cavity, and that between the arachnoid and the pia mater is the sub-arachnoid cavity. The Dura Mater In the fresh condition the dura mater appears as a bluish-white, exceed- ingly resistant membrane, forming the outermost envelope of the entire central nervous system. Its external surface or that next to the bony wall is rough, while its internal surface appears smooth, due to the fact that the subdural cavity partakes of the nature and has the lining of a lymph-space. The cranial dura mater consists of two distinct, closely associated layers, the outermost of which serves as the internal periosteum of the cranial bones. The spinal dura mater is described as con- sisting of but one layer. The internal periosteum of the spinal canal, though con- tinuous at the foramen magnum with the outer layer of the cranial dura mater, is not considered a part of the spinal dura mater, from the fact that it is so widely separated from the layer actually investing the spinal cord. Thus, since the cranial and spinal portions of the dura mater differ, they are described separately. The spinal dura mater is a fibrous tube with funnel-shaped termination which encloses and forms the outermost support of the spinal cord. It consists of but one layer, and this corresponds to the inner layer of the cranial dura mater. It begins at the foramen magnum and terminates in the spinal canal at about the level of the third piece of the os sacrum. It is firmly attached to the periosteum of the surround- ing bones only in certain localities:— (1) The upper end of the tube blends intimately with the periosteum of the mar- gin of the foramen magnum, and thus in this locality it becomes continuous with the outer layer of the cranial dura mater. Also in this locality it is attached firmly, though less intimately, to the periosteum of the posterior surfaces of the second and third cervical vertebrse. This locality may be considered the upper fixation-point of the spinal dura mater. (2) It extends laterally and contributes to the connective tissue investments of each pair of spinal nerves, and as such it passes into the intervertebral foramina and becomes loosely connected with the periosteum lining each. (3) Along its ventral aspect the spinal dura mater is attached by numerous processes to the posterior longitudinal ligament of the vertebral canal. These attachments are more or less delicate, loose, and irregular, and are easily torn or cut in removing the speci- men. They are stronger and more numerous in the cervical and lumbar regions than