855 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES uminous than the part in the body of the ventricle. (3) Partly covered by the chorioid plexus is the hippocampus major, a prominent, sickle-like ridge correspond- ing to the indentation of the hippocampal fissure. It begins as a narrow ridge behind, at the end of the body of the ventricle, as the extension of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and expands in front as the ventricular surface of the uncus. Its surface is not regular, but shows a concave medial margin as distinguished from a wider, convex, lateral surface. Its termination in front (pes hippocampi) is divided by two or three flat, radial grooves into a corresponding number of short elevations known as the hip- pocampal digitations. It is covered by a thick stratum of white substance, the Fig. 637.—Diagrams op Lateral View and Sections of the Nuclei of the Corpus Stria- tum with the Internal Capsule Omitted. A and B below represent horizontal sections along the lines A and B in the figure above. The figure also shows the relative position of the thalamus and the amygdaloid nucleus. CA UDA TE NUCLEI'S THALAMUS LENTICULAR NUCLEUS AMYGDALOID NUCLEUS CA UDATE NUCLEUS THALAMUS CA UDA TE NUCLEUS INTERNAL CAPSULE LENTICULAR NUCLEUS CA UDA TE NUCLEUS THALAMUS CA UDA TE NUCLEUS INTERNAL CAPSULE alveus, arising from its depths and continued mesially into the fimbria. (4) The fimbria is so folded that its margin, taenia fimbriae, lies in the cavity of the inferior horn attached to the chorioid plexus and the thin, non-nervous floor of the chorioid fissure. The caudate nucleus.—As realised in the study of the lateral ventricle, the cau- date nucleus is a comma-shaped mass of grey substance with a long, much-curved, and attenuated tail. Its head forms the bulging lateral wall of the anterior horn; thence it proceeds backwards in the lateral wall of the body of the ventricle and, at the collateral trigone, curves downwards and its tail becomes a median portion of the roof of the inferior horn. It is separated from the thalamus adjacent to it by the stria