THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 820 stance, the nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, in which many of its fibres are inter- rupted. The upper and greater portion of the lateral lemniscus with its nucleus belongs to the auditory apparatus, being connected with the nucleus of termination of the cochlear nerve, chiefly of the opposite side. (See fig. 601.) A large part of the fibres of this portion terminate in the inferior quadrigeminate bodies. Many of these enter at once the nucleus of the body of the same side, and disappear among its cells; others cross the mid-line to the quadrigeminate body of the opposite side. In crossing, some pass superficially and thus contribute to the stratum zonale, while others pass either through the nucleus or below it and cross beneath the floor of the median groove between the stratum zonale and the dorsal surface of the central grey sub- stance, forming there an evident decussation with similar fibres crossing from the opposite side. Most of the fibres arising from the cells of the nucleus of the quad- rigeminate body either pass by way of the inferior brachium to the medial geniculate body and the thalamus, or pass ventrally to terminate in the nucleus of origin of the trochlear nerve. Another portion of the lateral lemniscus passes obliquely forwards in company with the inferior brachium, and terminates in the medial geniculate body. Thus the inferior quadrigeminate bodies with their brachia and the medial geniculate bodies and a large portion of the lateral lemniscus are concerned with the sense of hearing. Practically all the remainder of the lateral lemniscus terminates in the nucleus, or stratum cinereum, of the superior quadrigeminate body of the same and opposite sides. They approach the nucleus from below, and contribute to the well-marked band of fibres coursing on the dorso-lateral margin of the central grey substance, and known as the 'optic-acoustic reflex path' (fig. 611). The medial lemniscus arises in the medulla oblongata from the nuclei (of term- ination) of the funiculus gracilis and funiculus euneatus of the opposite side, and likewise from the nuclei of termination of the sensory roots of the cranial nerves. It