THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 814 Of the cerebro-pontile paths, the frontal pontile path (Arnold's bundle) is de- scribed as arising in the cortex of the frontal lobe, passing in the anterior portion of the internal capsule down into the medial part of the base of the cerebral peduncle, and terminating in the grey substance of the pons. The descending temporal pontile path, sometimes called Turk's bundle, arises in the cortex of the temporal lobe, occupies the posterior portion of the internal capsule, lies lateral in the pyramidal portion of the cerebral peduncle, and terminates in the grey substance of the pons. The total area in transverse section of the pyramidal fasciculi as they enter the pons above is considerably greater than that which they possess as they emerge as the pyramids of the medulla below. The difference is considered very appreciably greater than can be explained as due to the loss of pyramidal fibres supplied to the nuclei of origin of the cranial nerves lying within the level of the pons, and the ad- ditional difference is explained as due to the termination within the pons of the cerebro-pontile paths. THE CEREBRUM THE MESENCEPHALON The mesencephalon or mid-brain is that small portion of the encephalon which is situated between and connects the rhombencephalon below with the prosencephalon above. It is continuous with the isthmus rhombencephali, and occupies the ten- torial notch, the aperture of the dura mater which connects the meningeal cavity containing the cerebellum with that occupied by the prosencephalon. Its greatest length is about 18 mm., and it is broader ventrally than dorsally. Its dorsal surface is hidden by the overlapping occipital lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. It consists of—(1) the lamina quadrigemina, a plate of mixed grey and white substance which goes over lateralwards and below into (2), the cerebral peduncles (crura) and their tegmental structures, and it contains (3), the nuclei of origin of the trochlear and oculo- motor nerves. It arises from thickenings of the walls of the middle cerebral vesicle of the embryo, the lamina quadrigemina arising from the dorsal or alar lamina of this portion of the neural tube, while the basal lamina thickens to form the cerebral peduncles. By means of the lamina quadrigemina roofing it over, the neural canal throughout the mesencephalon retains its tubular form and is known as the aquaeductus cerebri (Sylvii), connecting the cavity of the fourth ventricle below with that of the third ventricle above. External features.—Dorsal surface.—The lamina quadrigemina shows four well-rounded elevations, the corpora quadrigemina, divided by a flat median groove crossed at right angles by a transverse groove. The anterior pair of these, the superior quadrigeminate bodies or superior colliculi, are larger though less prom- inent than the inferior pair or inferior colliculi. Each colliculus is continued laterally and upwards into its arm or brachium. The inferior brachium proceeds from the inferior colliculus, disappears beneath and is continuous into the medial genicu- late body, and enters the thalamus. The superior brachium proceeds from the superior colliculus, disappears between the medial geniculate body and the overlap- ping pulvinar of the thalamus, and becomes continuous with the lateral geniculate body and thus with the lateral root of the optic tract. The geniculate bodies are rounded elevations of grey substance which arise as detached portions of the thalami, and therefore belong to the thalamencephalon rather than to the mesencephalon. The superior quadrigeminate body or superior colliculus and the lateral geniculate body are a part of the optic apparatus, while the inferior colliculus and the medial geniculate body belong chiefly to the auditory ap- paratus (see Central Connections of Cochlear Nerve) . Just as the cochlear nerve is connected by a few fibres with the superior colliculus, so do some fibres from the optic tract pass into the inferior colliculus. Also some fibres from the optic tract (mesial root) are said to terminate in the medial geniculate body. Resting in the broadened medial groove between the superior quadrigeminate bodies lies the non-nervous epiphysis or pineal body. This also belongs to the thalamencephalon. Under the stem of the epiphysis is a strong transverse band of white substance crossing the mid- line as a bridge over the opening of the aquaeductus cerebri into the third ventricle.