747 SECTION VI THE NERVOUS SYSTEM Originally Written by H. St. John Brooks, M.D. Revised for Second and Third Editions by Arthur Robinson Revised and Largely Rewritten for the Fourth Edition By IRVING HARDESTY, A.B., Ph.D. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 6 THE nervous system of man, both anatomically and functionally, is the most highly developed and definitely distributed of all the systems of the body. It consists of an aggregation of peculiarly differentiated tissue-elements, so arranged that through them stimuli may be transmitted from and to all the other tissue systems. It is a mechanism with parts so adjusted that stimuli affecting one tissue may be conveyed, modified, and distributed to other tissues so that the appropriate reac- tions result. While protoplasm will react without nerves, while muscle will con- tract without the mediation of nerves, yet the nervous system is of the most vital importance to the higher organisms in that the stimuli required for the functioning of the organs are so distributed throughout their component elements that the necessary harmonious and coordinate activities are produced. For this purpose the nervous system permeates every organ of the body, the nerves dividing into smaller and smaller branches till the division attains the individual nerve-fibres of which the nerves are composed, and even the fibres bifurcate repeatedly before their final termination upon their allotted elements. So intimate and extensive is the dis- tribution throughout that could all the other tissues of the body be dissolved away, still there would be left in gossamer its form and proportions—a phantom of the body composed entirely of nerves. The parent portion or axis of the system extends along the dorsal mid-line of the body, surrounded by bone and, in addition, protected and supported by a series of especially constructed membranes or meninges, the outermost of which is the strongest. The cephalic end of the axis, the encephalon, is remarkably enlarged in man, and is enclosed within the largest portion of the bony cavity, the cranium, while the remainder of the central axis, the spinal cord, continues through the for- amen magnum and lies in the spinal canal. The intimate connection of the axis with all the parts of the body is attained by means of forty-three pairs of nerves, which are attached to the axis at somewhat regular intervals along its extent. They course from their segments of attachment through the meninges and through their respective foramina in the bony cavity to the periphery. Of these cerebro-spinal nerves twelve pairs are attached to the encephalon, and thirty-one pairs to the spinal cord. Most of them contain both afferent fibres, or fibres which convey impulses from the peripheral tissues to the axis, and efferent fibres, or fibres which convey impulses from the axis to the peripheral tissues. All the thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves possess fibres of both types, though in varying proportions. Upon approaching the spinal cord, each spinal nerve is separated into two roots— its dorsal root and its ventral root. The afferent fibres enter the axis by way of the dorsal roots, which are, therefore, the sensory roots, and the efferent fibres leave the axis by way of the ventral or motor roots.