THE MIDDLE EAR 1055 with the medial wall. The cartilage-covered edge of the base is bound to the cartilage-covered rim of the vestibular (oval) fenestra by the annular ligament of the base of the stapes, thus form- ing the tympano-stapedial syndesmosis. Ligaments of the ossicles.—In addition to the attachment of the manubrium of the malleus and the base of the stapes to the walls of the tympanic cavity, the bones have additional ligamentous attachments. The superior malleolar ligament runs almost vertically from the superior wall of the epitympanic recess to the head of the malleus (fig. 750). The anterior malleolar ligament extends from the angu- lar spine of the sphenoid bone through the petro-tympanic (Glaserian) fissure to the anterior or long process of the malleus, which it surrounds, and is inserted with it into the neck of the malleus. The lateral malleolar ligament is short and thick, and runs from the margins of the tympanic notch (notch of Rivinus) to the neck of the malleus (fig. 750). The posterior ligament of the incus passes from the fossa on the posterior tympanic wall to the crus brevis of the incus (fig. 751). The su- Fig. 750.—The Tympanic Cavity, Anterior Wall Removed. EPITYMPANIC RECESS Lateral malleolar ligament , PARS FLACCI0A Superior recess of tympanic membrane LATERAL PROCESS OF MALLEUS Anterior malleo- lar ligament surrounding an- terior process Insertion of tensor tympani MANUBRIUM OF MALLEUS EXTERNAL ACOUSTIC MEATUS UMBO AND TIP OF MANUBRIUM OF MALLEUS LIMBUS ANNULUS TYMPANIC CELLUL/E Superior malleo- lar ligament HEAD OF MALLEUS NECK OF MALLEUS FACIAL NERVE LONG PROCESS OF INCUS PYRAMIDAL EMINENCE Tendon of stapedius STAPES PROMONTORY perior ligament of the incus is little more than mucous membrane; it runs from the tympanic roof to the body of the incus. Muscles of the ossicles.—Each of the muscles of the ossicles is contained in a bony canal. The tensor tympani is a pinniform muscle about 2 cm. long. It arises from the cartilaginous part of the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tube), from the adjacent part of the great wing of the sphenoid, and from the bony walls of the semicanal which encloses it. It ends in a round tendon which turns almost at right angles over the cochleariform process and passes laterally across the tympanic cavity to be attached to the manubrium of the malleus near the neck. It draws the manubrium medially and tightens the tympanic membrane, and is supplied by the motor division of the fifth cranial nerve, through the tensor tympani branch from the otic ganglion. The stapedius arises from the inside of the hollow pyramidal eminence, the apex of which is pierced by its tendon, which then turns inferiorly and is inserted on the pos- terior surface of the neck of the stapes. It draws laterally the ventral border of the base of the stapes and is supplied by the facial nerve. The tympanic mucous membrane forms a complete covering for the walls and