THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 843 constant in shape. It extends a variable distance transversely across the superior portion of the lobe, and, as noted above, it is frequently continuous with the inter- parietal sulcus through its occipital ramus, and when so, it appears as the posterior terminal bifurcation of this sulcus (fig. 624). When detached, it often occurs merely as a definite furrow with few rami, and sometimes the ramus by which it otherwise would join the interparietal sulcus is entirely absent. (2) The lateral occipital sulcus is always short, and has its deepest portion below the transverse sulcus. It usually has a somewhat oblique course towards the supero-mesial border. Some- times it occurs in several detached pieces, then known collectively as the lateral occipital sulci. Therefore, the gyri of the convex surface of the lobe are also variable. They are not sufficiently constant to merit individual names. The lateral occipital sulcus or sulci roughly divide them into an inferior and lateral area, known as the lateral occipital gyri, and into a superior area, the superior occipital gyri. The lateral area is continuous into the gyri of the temporal lobe, while the superior area is con- tinuous into the gyri of the parietal lobe. The mesial surface of the occipital lobe is separated from that of the parietal lobe (precuneus) and from the gyrus cinguli of the limbic lobe by the well-marked parieto-occipital fissure. It comprises the constantly defined, wedge-shaped lobule known as'the cuneus, and the posterior and mesial extremity of the lingual gyrus. Since the greater portion of the length of the lingual gyrus is involved in the basal surface of the temporal lobe, this gyrus as a whole has been considered as belonging to the temporal lobe (see figs. 619 and 624). The cuneus is separated from the lingual gyrus by the posterior portion of the calcarine fissure, which always terminates in a bifurcation, one limb of which invades the cuneus near the superomesial border. In addition the cuneus may contain other twigs from both the fissures bounding it, and also, when wide, may contain one or more short, detached sulci cunei. The calcarine fissure and the parieto-occipital fissure are almost invariably joined in the human brain, forming a Y-shaped figure, the prongs of which give the cuneus its shape. The calcarine fissure begins on the tentorial surface in the posterior portion of the hippocampal gyrus of the limbic lobe, below the splenium of the corpus callosum, and extends backwards across the internal occipital border of the hemisphere. It then bends downwards and proceeds to its terminal bifurcation in the polar portion of the occipital lobe. The stem or hippocampal portion of the fissure is deeper than the posterior or occipital portion. It produces a well-marked eminence in the inner wall of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, known as the calcar avis or hippocampus minor. It is developed separately from the posterior portion, which also first appears as two grooves. All three parts are usually continuous with each other before birth. The parieto-occipital fissure usually appears from the first as a continuous groove. It begins in the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, rarely extending into the convex surface more than 10 mm. (external parieto-occipital fissure), thence it extends vertically downwards across the mesial surface (internal parieto-occipital fissure), and terminates by joining the calcarine fissure at the region of the downward bend of the latter, or at about the junction of its anterior and middle thirds. In certain of the lower apes and in the brain of the chimpanzee there is no junction between the two fissures, they being kept apart by a narrow neck of cortex, the gyrus cunei. Neither are they joined in the human fcetus. If in the adult human brain the region of their junction be opened widely, there will be found a submerged gyrus transitivus (deep annectant gyrus), which is the gyrus cunei, superficial in the fcetus. In the higher apes and in micro- cephalic idiots this gyrus may be on the surface or partially submerged. Two other gyri transitivi (annectant gyri) are to be found by pressing open the calcarine fissure, and they mark the points at which its three original grooves became continuous during its development into a boundary between the cuneus and the lingual gyrus. Of these, the anterior cuneo-lingual gyrus crosses the floor of the calcarine fissure on the posterior side of its junction with the parieto-occipital fissure, and therefore near the gyrus cunei. The posterior cuneo-lingual gyrus occurs near the region of the terminal bifurcation of the fissure. The tentorial surface of the occipital lobe is blended intimately with that of the temporal lobe, from which it is separated only by an arbitrary line drawn to join the line of demarcation for the convex surface, at the region of the pre-occipital notch, and thence to the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus—the narrow neck of cortex con- necting the gyrus cinguli with the hippocampal gyrus, just below the splenium of the corpus callosum (see fig. 619). The gyri blending the occipital and temporal lobes across this line are the lingual gyrus, already mentioned, and the fusiform gyrus (occipito-temporal convolution). In fact, the tentorial surface of the lobe may be considered as nothing more than the posterior extremity of the fusiform gyrus, and the inferior portion of the same extremity of the lingual gyrus. The former is often somewhat broken up and is then continuous into the lateral occipital gyri. The two gyri are separated by the collateral fissure, the end of which extends into the