846 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM which encloses the corpus callosum and the extremities of which approach each other at the anterior perforated substance, where they are continuous with the structures of the anterior portion of the rhinencephalon. The figure is bounded ex- ternally by the sulcus cinguli above, by the subparietal sulcus (postlimbic sulcus) and the anterior limb of the calcarine fissure behind, and by the collateral fissure below. These respectively separate it from the frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes. It comprises the following structures which are either wholly or in part devoted to the functions of the olfactory apparatus:— Gyrus cinguli (cingulum). Isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus. !hippocampal gyrus, dentate fascia, fimbria. 2. The medial and lateral longitudinal striae upon the corpus callosum. 3. The fornix. 4. The corpus mammillare and thalamo-mammillary fasciculus to the anterior nucleus of the thalamus. 5. Part of anterior cerebral commissure. 6. Part of septum pellucidum. 1. Gyrus fornicatus Fig. 628.—Diagram showing Position of Structures Comprising the Limbic Lobe as Seen from the Mesial Aspect of the Cerebral Hemisphere. fornix FASCIOLA CINEREA GYRUS CINGULI MEDIAL AND LATERAL t~ LONGITUDINAL STRIDE \ OF CORPUS CALLOSUM SEPTUM PELLUCIDUM SUBCALLOSAL GYRUS OLFA CTOR Y B ULB THA LA MO-MA MMIL LA R Y FA SCICUL US ( VICQ D'AZYRI) CORPUS MAMMILLA RE MEDIAL OLFACTORY STRIA LATERAL OLFACTORY STRIA DENTATE FASCIA OR GYRUS The gyrus fornicatus comprises the greater mass of the limbic lobe. As seen above, it is a term used to collectively represent a number of conjoined structures. Being an incomplete ellipse in form, its two ends are united to form a closed ring by means of the connection of the parolfactory area with the gyrus cinguli and the connection of the anterior perforated substance with the uncus of the hippocampal gyrus. It is best described in terms of its component parts. The gyrus cinguli begins in junction with the area parolfactoria below the anterior end of the corpus callosum, and curves above so as to entirely embrace the upper surface of the latter. It is separated from the frontal lobe by the sulcus cinguli (calloso-marginal fissure), from the parietal lobe by the subparietal sulcus, and from the corpus callosum below by the sulcus of the corpus callosum. By the latter it is separated from the longitudinal strise of the upper surface of the corpus callosum. The gyrus cinguli covers over, and its cells are closely associated with, the cingulum, a well-marked band of white substance, which follows the gyrus backwards to turn around the splenium of the corpus callosum, and then course forwards into the hippo- campal gyrus to the uncus. The cingulum is largely recruited from the medial olfactory stria and from fibres arising in the parolfactory area and the anterior per- forated substance. The isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus is the constricted portion connecting the posterior end of the gyrus cinguli with that of the hippocampal gyrus (fig. 619). It is