973 THE SPHENO-PALA TINE GANGLION The sensory fibres ascend to the soft palate, where they are probably connected with peripheral taste organs, and they arise from the cells of the geniculate ganglion. The motor fibres, if they exist, belong either to the facial nerve or to communicating branches which have passed into it from other nerves. (6) The sympathetic root is the great deep petrosal portion of the Vidian nerve. This root, which is of reddish colour and of soft texture, springs from the carotid plexus which lies on the outer side of the internal carotid artery in the carotid canal. It enters the foramen lacerum through the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and unites with the great superficial petrosal branch of the seventh nerve to form the Vidian nerve. The Vidian nerve (n. canalis pterygoidei) commences by the union of the great superficial and deep petrosal nerves in the foramen lacerum, and runs forwards through the pterygoid (Vidian) canal to the pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa, where it terminates in Meckel's ganglion. While it is in the pterygoid canal the Vidian nerve is joined by a sphenoidal filament from the otic ganglion, and it gives branches to the upper and back part of the roof and septum of the nose, and to the lower end of the Eustachian tube. (c) The sensory root usually consists of two spheno-palatine branches from the maxillary nerve. The majority of the fibres of these roots do not join the ganglion, but pass by its inner side and enter the palatine branches. Branches.—The branches of the ganglion are orbital or ascending, internal or nasal, descending or palatine, and posterior or pharyngeal. Ascending branches.—The orbital or ascending branches are two or three small twigs which enter the orbit through the inferior orbital (spheno-maxillary) fissure and proceed, within the periosteum, to the inner wall of the orbit, where they pass through the posterior ethmoidal foramen and through the foramina in the suture behind that foramen to be distributed to the mucous membrane which lines the pos- terior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus. Internal branches.—The internal or nasal branches are derived in part from the inner side of the ganglion, but are also largely made up of fibres which pass from the spheno-palatine branches of the maxillary nerve without traversing the ganglionic substance. They are disposed in two sets, the lateral and the medial (septal) posterior superior nasal branches. The lateral posterior superior nasal branches are six or seven small twigs which pass through the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane covering the posterior parts of the superior and middle nasal concha? (turbinated bones) (fig. 699). They also furnish twigs to the lining membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells. The medial posterior superior nasal (septal) branches, two or three in number, pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen. They cross the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the back part of the nasal septum, where the smaller twigs terminate. The largest nerve of the set, the naso-palatine nerve, or nerve of Cotunnius, runs downwards and forwards in a groove in the vomer between the periosteum and the mu- cous membrane to the incisive (anterior palatine) canal, where it communicates with the nasal branch of the anterior superior alveolar nerve. The two naso-palatine nerves then pass through the foramina of Scarpa in the intermaxillary suture, the left nerve passing through the anterior of the two foramina. In the lower part of the incisive (anterior palatine) canal the two nerves form a plexiform communication (formerly described as Cloquet's ganglion) and they furnish twigs to the anterior or premaxillary part of the hard palate behind the incisor teeth. In this situation they communicate with the anterior palatine nerves. Descending branches.—The descending branches are the great or anterior, the posterior, and the middle (external) palatine nerves. Like the internal set of branches, they are in part derived from the ganglion and in part are directly con- tinuous with the spheno-palatine nerves (fig. 699). The great or anterior palatine nerve arises from the inferior angle of Meckel's ganglion, and passes downwards through the posterior palatine canal, accompanied by the descending palatine artery. Emerging from the canal at the greater (posterior) palatine foramen it divides into two or three branches, which pass forwards in grooves in the hard palate and supply the glands and mucous mem- brane of the hard palate and the gums on the inner aspect of the alveolar border of the upper jaw. During its course through the posterior palatine canal the anterior