SUMMARY OF CONDUCTION PATHS - 875 4. Fibres from medial geniculate body and nucleus of inferior quadrigeminate body pass into internal capsule and through temporal part of corona radiata to middle third of superior temporal gyrus and adjacent portions (auditory area). 5. From superior olivary nucleus arise fibres which terminate in nucleus of abducens or pass by way of the medial longitudinal fasciculus to other motor nuclei of cranial nerves (peduncle of superior olive). It is probable that fibres from the auditory area of the cerebral cortex are also distributed to nuclei of the cranial nerves. VII. Conduction Paths of the Optic Apparatus 1. 'Bipolar' cells of retina with short (peripheral) processes to layer of rods and cones (neuro- epithelium) and short centrally directed processes to ganglion-cell layer of retina (nucleus of termination). Fig. 650.—Diagram of Principal Pathways of Optic Apparatus. (After Cunningham.) 2. Ganglion-cells of retina give origin to— (a) Optic stratum of retina. (b) Optic nerve. (c) Optic chiasma; fibres from nasal side of retina cross in chiasma to opposite side; fibres from lateral side of retina continue on same side in— (d) Optic tract to— 3. Pulvinar of thalamus, lateral geniculate body, and nucleus of superior quadrigeminate bodies. (a) Fibres from nucleus of superior quadrigeminate bodies pass ventrally to medial longitudinal fasciculus of same and opposite sides, and from it are distributed to nuclei of origin of eye-muscle nerves. (6) Fibres from lateral geniculate body and pulvinar pass through occipital portion of internal capsule and occipito-thalamic radiation (optic radiation) to cortex of occipital lobe (visual area). 4. Cells of visual area of cortex send fibres through occipito-thalamic radiation and internal capsule to nucleus of superior quadrigeminate bodies (occipito-mesencephalic fasciculus), and thence, probably interrupted by cells of this nucleus, to nuclei of eye-muscle nerves. 5. Cells of nucleus of superior quadrigeminate body and pulvinar send fibres by way of medial longitudinal fasciculus into lateral and ventral funiculi of spinal cord (see fig. 571), chiefly of the opposite side. Fibres from the quadrigeminate body cross mid-line in decussation of 'optic-acoustic reflex path' (fig. 611).