THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 854 verse sections of the occipital lobe (fig. 643) the tapetum appears as a thin lamina of obliquely cut white substance immediately bounding the cavity, while outside the tapetum occurs a thicker layer of more transversely cut fibres, the occipito-thalamic radiation. In the medial or inner wall of the posterior horn run two variable longi- tudinal eminences:—(1) The superior of these is the bulb of the posterior cornu, and is formed by the occipital portion of the radiation of the corpus callosum (sple- nium), which bends around the impression of the deep parieto-occipital fissure, and, hook-like, sweeps into the occipital lobe. In horizontal sections these fibres, together with the splenium and the similar fibres into the opposite occipital lobe, form the figure known as the forceps major. (2) The inferior and thicker of the eminences is the hippocampus minor or calcar avis (cock's spur), and is due to the anterior part of the calcarine fissure, by which the wall of the hemisphere is projected into the ven- tricle. The posterior horn, like the anterior, is not entered by the chorioid plexus. The inferior cornu.—In its inferior and slightly lateral origin from the region of junction between the body of the ventricle and the posterior cornu, the inferior horn aids in producing a somewhat triangular dilation of the cavity known as the collateral trigone. Beginning as a part of the trigone, the cavity of this horn at first passes backwards and lateralwards, but then suddenly curves downwards and for- Fig. 636.—Dissection of Right Temporal Lobe showing the Medial Wall of the End of the Inferior Horn of the Lateral Ventricle. (From Spalteholz.) TJENIA FIMBRIAE , COLLATERAL FISSURE wards into the medial part of the temporal lobe nearly parallel with the superior tem- poral sulcus. Above, it follows the curve of the posterior pillars of the fornix and fimbria; below, it does not extend to the frontal pole by from 2 to 3 cm. The roof and lateral wall are, for the most part, like those of the posterior horn, being formed by the tapetum, but medianwards a strip of the roof is formed by the attenuated, infe- rior prolongation, or tail, of the caudate nucleus, together with the lower part of the stria terminalis of the thalamus. At the end of the inferior horn the roof shows a bulging, the amygdaloid tubercle, situated at the termination of the tail of the cau- date nucleus. This bulging is produced by the amygdaloid nucleus, an accumulation of grey substance continuous with that of the cortex of the temporal lobe, and which gives origin to the greater part of the longitudinal fibres coursing in the stria termi- nalis of the thalamus. In the medial wall and floor of the inferior horn the following structures are shown :-■—(1) In the posterior or trigonal part of the floor is the longitudinal col- lateral eminence, a bulging, very variable in development in different specimens, pro- duced by the collateral fissure. This is often pronouncedly in two parts, a posterior prominence corresponding to the middle portion of the collateral fissure and an anterior prominence (less frequent) produced by the anterior part of the fissure. (2) Medial to this eminence lies the inferior extension of the chorioid plexus, usually more vol-