852 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The interventricular foramen (foramen of Monro), by which the lateral ven- tricle is continuous with the cavity of the third ventricle, is a small, roundish channel, 2 to 4 mm. wide, which opens into the mesial side of the posterior end of the anterior cornu. It is bounded in front by the free portion of the anterior pillars of the fornix, and behind by the anterior tubercle of the thalamus. That the greater part of the lateral ventricle is posterior to it is due to the backward extension of the hemispheres during their growth and elaboration. Through the two foramina indirectly, the cavities of the two lateral ventricles are in communication with each other. The walls of the lateral ventricle.—The anterior cornu is a bowl-like cavity, convex forwards and extending upwards and medianwards into the frontal lobe. Fig. 634.—Horizontal Dissection of the Cerebral Hemispheres. The fornix has been removed to show the relation of the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle to the chorioid plexus of the lateral ventricles. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) CA UDA TE NUCLEUS ANTERIOR PILLARS OF FORNIX Veins of Galen POSTERIOR \m PILL A RS OF FORNIX Straight sinus CERE- BELLUM CORPUS CALLOSUM (in section) SEPTUM PELL UCI- DUM FIFTH VENTRICLE STRIA TER- MINALS OF THALA- MUS THALAMUS Tela chorioidea (velum inter- positum) Chorioidplexus FIMBRIA HIPPOCAM- PUS MAJOR EMINENTIA COLL A TER- ALIS HIPPO- CAMPUS 3IINOR Above and anteriorly it is bounded by the under surface of the corpus callosum and the radiations of its genu into the substance of the frontal lobe. Its median boundary is the septum pellucidum; the head of the caudate nucleus (part of the corpus striatum) gives it a bulging, ventro-lateral wall, and the balance of its floor is formed by the white substance of the orbital part of the frontal lobe. The body or central portion is more nearly horizontal. It lies within the parietal lobe and extends from the interventricular foramen to the level of the splenium of the corpus callosum. Its roof is formed by the inferior surface of the body of the corpus callosum, and its mesial wall consists of the posterior part of the septum pellucidum, attaching the fornix to the under surface of the corpus callosum. Like the anterior horn, it is given an oblique, ventro-lateral wall by the narrower,