THE EYEBALL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 1021 with the eyes looking straight forwards, the lower margin of the upper lid is nearly opposite to the top of the cornea, or, more strictly, to a line midway between the top of the cornea and the upper border of the pupil, while the lower lid corresponds with the lower corneal margin. When the eyes are directed strongly upwards, the upper lid is relatively on a slightly higher level, as it is simultaneously raised, but the lower lid now leaves a strip of sclerotic exposed below the cornea. On looking downwards the upper lid covers the upper part of the cornea as low down as the level of the top of the pupil, while the lower lid is about midway between the pupil and the lower corneal border. If we draw the eyelids forcibly apart, we expose the whole cornea, and a zone of sclerotic about eight and a half millimetres in breadth above and below, and ten millimetres in breadth to the outer and inner sides—altogether about one-third of the globe; all the eyeball thus exposed is covered by the ocular conjunctiva. Over the sclerotic the conjunctiva is freely movable, and through it we see superficial blood-vessels that can be made to slip from side to side along with it (conjunctival vessels). Occasionally other deeper vessels may also be seen which do not move with the conjunctiva, but are attached to the sclerotic (anterior ciliary arteries and veins). Near the corneal border the conjunctiva ceases to be freely movable, and it is closely adherent to the whole anterior surface of the cornea, giving the latter its characteristic bright, reflecting appearance; no blood-vessels are visible through it here in health. (When the lids are shut, the space enclosed between their pos- Fig. 723.—View of Eyeball, Etc., Obtained on Drawing the Lids Forcibly Apart. (After Merkel, slightly modified.) UPPER LACHRYMAL LOWER LACHRYMAL OPENINGS OF TARS/ INFERIOR CONJUNCTIVAL FORNIX terior surfaces and the front of the eyeball is thus everywhere covered by conjunc- tiva, and is known as the conjunctival sac.) Not unfrequently the tendinous insertions of some or all of the recti muscles into the sclerotic may be seen through the conjunctiva, each insertion appearing as a series of whitish parallel lines running towards, but terminating about seven millimetres from, the corresponding corneal border. The cornea appears as a transparent dome, having a curvature greater than that of the sclerotic; the junc- tion of the two unequally curved surfaces is marked by a shallow depression run- ning around the cornea, known as the scleral sulcus. In outline the cornea is nearly circular, but its horizontal diameter is slightly greater than its vertical. Between it and the iris a space exists, whose depth we can estimate roughly by looking at the eye from one side; this space, or anterior chamber, is occupied by a clear fluid, the aqueous humour. Almost the whole anterior surface of the iris is visible, its extreme periphery only being concealed by sclerotic. In colour the iris varies greatly in different individuals. Near its centre (really a little up and in) a round hole exists in the iris, the black pupil, whose size varies considerably in different eyes, and in the same eye according to temporary conditions, such as exposure to light, etc. In examining the surface-markings of the living iris, one of dark colour is to be preferred. Focal illumination will be found useful, for which purpose a second convex lens will be required. On the surface of the iris we see a number of ridges running more or less radially ; adjoining ones occasionally unite and interlace to some extent, so as to leave large