THE FACIAL NERVE 975 beneath the eminentia medialis, and it is in direct linear series with the nuclei of the third, fourth, and twelfth nerves. The fibres which pass from the nucleus into the sixth nerve run inferiorly and ventralwards through the reticular formation, the trapezium, and the pyramidal fibres, and they emerge from the ventral surface of the medulla in the sulcus between the lower border of the pons and the upper end of the pyramid of the medulla. From this superficial attachment the nerve runs upwards and forwards in the subarachnoid space between the pons and the basisphenoid and at the side of the basilar artery. A little below the level of the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone it pierces the dura mater, passes beneath the petro-sphenoidal ligament, at the side of the dorsum sellse, and enters the cavernous sinus, in which it runs forwards along the outer side of the internal carotid artery. At the anterior end of the sinus it passes through the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure between the heads of the rectus lateralis, below the lower division of the oculo-motor nerve, and above the ophthalmic vein. In the orbit it runs forwards on the inner or ocular surface of the rectus lateralis, and finally it pierces this muscle and ends in its substance. While it is in the cavernous sinus it receives communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and from the ophthalmic nerve. All the fibres arising in the nucleus of the sixth nerve do not pass into the sixth nerve. Some of them ascend in the medial longitudinal fasciculus, cross the mid-line, and join the third nerve of the opposite side, by which they are conveyed to the opposite internal rectus muscle. Thus impulses starting from the sixth nerve nucleus can throw into simultaneous action the external rectus of the same side and the internal rectus of the opposite side, and thus turn both eyes in the same direction. Central Connections.—The nucleus of the sixth nerve is connected with the somaesthetic area of the opposite side by the pyramidal fibres, and it is associated with the sensory nuclei of other nerves by way of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (p. 800). THE SEVENTH NERVE—THE FACIAL Like the trigeminus, the seventh or facial nerve is a mixed nerve. Each possesses a sensory, ganglionated and a motor, non-ganglionated root, but the double con- dition of the seventh is somewhat masked by the fusion of the two roots both on the inner and on the outer side of the ganglion, which is situated, therefore, on the trunk of the nerve. The ganglion is relatively small and its cells give origin, of course, to only the sensory root or pars intermedia, which is smaller than the motor root. The Motor Root and the Trunk.—The fibres of the motor portion of the seventh nerve spring from a nucleus of cells situated laterally in the rejhrukrformation of_the lower part of the pons, dorsal to the superior olive, and between the root fibres of the sixth nerve and the laterally placed spinal tract of the trigeminus. From this nucleus the fibres of the nerve pass medially and dorsalwards to the floor of the fourth ven- tricle and, just under the floor, they turn anteriorly, passing dorsal to the nucleus of the abducens (fig. 603, p. 811). At the anterior end of this nucleus they turn sharply ventralwards and lateralwards, and at this point it is claimed that fibres descending in the near-by medial longitudinal fasciculus from the nucleus of the oculo-motor nerve of the same side become intermingled with the fibres of the facial nerve and pass outwards with them. Continuing ventralwards through the reticular formation the fibres of the facial emerge from the brain-stem at the inferior border of the pons, lateral to the superficial attachment of the abducens. At the point of its emergence, the facial nerve pierces the pia mater, from which it receives a sheath, and then proceeds forwards and outwards in the posterior fossa of the cranium to the internal auditory meatus, which it enters in company with its pars intermedia and with the eighth nerve. As it lies in the meatus it is situated above and in front of the eighth nerve, from which it is separated by the pars intermedia, and it is surrounded, to- gether with the pars intermedia and the eighth nerve, by sheaths of both the arachnoid and the dura mater and by prolongations of the subarachnoid and sub-dural spaces. While it is still in the meatus it blends with the pars intermedia and thus the com- plete trunk of the facial nerve is formed. At the outer end of the canal the trunk pierces the arachnoid and the dura mater and enters the facial canal (aqueduct of Fallopius), in which it runs forwards and slightly outwards to the hiatus Fallopii, where it makes an angular bend, the geniculum, around the anterior boundary of the vestibule, and this bend is enlarged by the formation of the geniculate ganglion in its