THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 896 traversing the subarachnoid cavity. It is also pierced by the cranial nerves, and furnishes them their sheaths, which become continuous with the arachnoid and dura mater. Its outer surface, bounding the subarachnoid cavity, is covered by a layer of endothelium. The fibrous portion below is with difficulty separable into two layers of mixed white fibrous and elastic connective tissue, with slightly pigmented connective-tissue cells enmeshed between them. Its inner surface sends a large num- ber of fibrous processes into the nervous substance, which blend with the neuroglia and aid in the support of the nervous elements. The larger of these processes ac- company the central arterial and venous branches of the rich superficial plexuses of blood-vessels contained in the pia on the surface of the brain. Pieces of the pia when pulled off and placed in water present a flocculent appearance as to their inner sur- faces, due to these processes having been pulled out. The cranial pia mater sends strong, vascular duplications into two Of the great fissures of the encephalon; viz., the transverse cerebellar fissure, between the cere- bellum and the medulla oblongata, and the transverse cerebral fissure, between the cerebellum, mesencephalon, and thalamencephalon, and the overhanging cerebral hemispheres. These duplications are spread over the cavities of the fourth and third ventricles, and are known as the telce chorioidece of these ventricles respectively. Fig. 667.—Diagram showing Tela Chorioidea of Fourth Ventricle after Removal of Cerebellum. inferior v / The tela chorioidea of the fourth ventricle lies in the transverse cerebellar fissure, between the under surface of the cerebellum (vermis chiefly) and the dorsal surface of the medulla (fourth ventricle). The two layers of this fold of the pia re- main separate and a portion of the cisterna posterior of the subarachnoid cavity lies between them. It is a triangular fold, with its base above at the nodule of the ver- mis and its apex below at the level of the tuber vermis. The upper layer adheres to the vermis; the lower strengthens the epithelial roof of the fourth ventricle and is continuous with the pia mater of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. This lower layer is the tela of the fourth ventricle proper. In roofing over the calamus scriptorius it constitutes the ligula and the obex. A little above the calamus scrip- torius the lower layer is pierced by the foramen of Magendie. In front of the foramen of Magendie the vessels of the tela chorioidea, which are derived from the posterior inferior cerebellar arteries, form two longitudinal, lobulated strands which invaginate the epithelial roof of the ventricle, one on either side of the mid-line, and project into its cavity. These form the chorioid plexus of the fourth ventricle. At the base of the tela the two chorioid plexuses join each other and then turn transversely outwards into the lateral recesses of the ventricle, where they pass behind the restiform bodies and form the 'cornucopias.'