THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 841 represents the third of the primary furrows, is continued backwards past the superior extremity of the parieto-occipital fissure into the occipital lobe, where it usually joins the occipital ramus, the fourth of the primary furrows. This ramus divides shortly into two branches which run at right angles to the stem, forming the trans- verse occipital sulcus, and thus arises the transverse bar of the posterior end of the interparietal sulcus. The occipital ramus may, however, consist of little more than the transverse bar, which may or may not be joined by the horizontal ramus. The occipital ramus is more frequently separate from the horizontal than is the post- central sulcus. In their development the inferior postcentral sulcus appears first (during the latter part of the sixth month), the occipital ramus second, the horizontal ramus third, and last, the superior postcentral sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (gyrus) is the area of the supero-mesial border of the parietal lobe. It is limited in front by the superior postcentral sulcus, below by the horizontal ramus of the interparietal sulcus, and posteriorly it is continuous Fig. 625.—Convex Surface of the Cerebral Hemispheres as Viewed from Above. (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Rebman, London and New York.) FRONTAL POLE around the superior end of the parieto-occipital fissure into the cortex of the occipital lobe. It is a relatively wide area (lobule), always invaded by collateral twigs of its limiting sulci, and usually contains a few short, isolated furrows. When the parieto- occipital fissure is considerably prolonged over the supero-mesial border (external parieto-occipital fissure), the continuation of the lobule about the end of this fissure presents the appearance described as the parieto-occipital arch. The inferior parietal lobule is limited in front by the inferior postcentral sulcus, and above by the horizontal ramus of the interparietal sulcus. It is continuous with the cortex of the temporal lobe below, and with that of the occipital lobe behind, and is therefore invaded by the ends of the sulci belonging to these lobes. Its anterior portion is separated from the temporal lobe by the horizontal portion of the posterior ramus of the lateral fissure. The upturned end of this ramus invades the anterior portion of the lobule and the broad fold, arched around this end and continuous behind it into the superior temporal gyrus, is known as the supramarginal gyrus.