School of medicins THE THALAmW»VZKW OF LE^S- Both the structures of the metathalamus, the lateral and medial geniculate bodies, are connected with the optic tract. As this tract curves around the cerebral peduncle it divides into two main roots. The lateral geniculate body receives a large portion of the fibres of the lateral root of the optic tract; the remainder pass under this body and enter the pulvinar of the thalamus. The medial geniculate body is connected with the medial root of the optic tract, which root consists largely, not of retinal fibres, as does the lateral root, but of the fibres forming Gudden's com- missure (the inferior cerebral commissure). Of the epithalamus, the epiphysis (pineal body, conarium) is the most con- spicuous external feature. This is an unpaired, cone-shaped structure, about 7 mm. long and 4 mm. broad, which also projects upon the mesencephalon so that its body rests in the groove between the superior quadrigeminate bodies. Its stem Fig. 614.—Dissection of Brain showing Metathalamus and Pulvinar with Adjacent Structures. IS is attached in the mid-line at the posterior extremity of the third ventricle, and there- fore just above the posterior commissure of the cerebrum (fig. 607). It is covered by pia mater, and is enclosed in a continuation of the tela chorioidea of the third ven- * tricle. Though it developes as a diverticulum of that portion of the anterior primary vesicle which gives origin to the thalamencephalon, it is wholly a non-nervous struc- ture, other than the sympathetic fibres which enter it for the supply of its blood- vessels. It consists of a dense capsule of fibrous tissue (pia mater) from which numerous septa pass inwards, dividing the interior into a number of intercommunicating compartments filled with epithelial (ependymal) cells of the same origin as the ependyma lining the ventricles and aqueduct below. Among these cells are frequently found small accretions (brain-sand, acervulus cerebri), consisting of mixed phosphates of lime, magnesia, and ammonia and carbonates of lime. The compartments form a closed system. In function the epiphysis ranks as one of the glands of internal secretion of the body, and it is often referred to as the 'pineal gland.' Apparently arising from the base of the epiphysis, but having practically nothing to do with it, are the striae medullares of the thalamus (striae pineales, pedunculi