ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1052 In the cartilaginous meatus it is supplied with numerous fine hairs and sebaceous glands, neither of which are found in the bony meatus, and tubular ceruminous glands, which secrete the cerumen (ear wax), form a nearly continuous layer through- out the cartilaginous, but occur on only a small part of the dorsal and superior wall ot the bony, meatus. The openings of their ducts appear as dark points to the naked eye (fig. 747). The arteries are branches from the posterior auricular, superficial temporal, and deep auric- ular (pp. 526 and 529). The veins and lymphatics connect with those of the auricle and empty- similarly. The nerves are branches from the auriculotemporal and the auricular ramus of the vagus. THE MIDDLE EAR The middle ear is completely separated from the external ear by the tympanic membrane, which is stretched obliquely across the medial end of the external acoustic meatus. The tympanic membrane is elliptical, its long axis measuring 9 to 10 mm., its short axis, 8 to 9 mm. It slopes medially from the superior and dorsal to the inferior and ventral wall of the meatus, forming, as a rule, with the superior wall, an angle of 140 degrees (von Troltsch). It varies, however, greatly in form, size, and obliquity. The semitransparent membrane, which sometimes has a reddish tinge, is drawn medially and made funnel-shape by the manubrium of the malleus, but the walls of the funnel bulge towards the meatus (fig. 750). The most depressed point, the umbo, is slightly inferior and dorsal to the centre of the membrane, and corresponds to the tip of the manubrium (fig. 748), and from it a whitish streak, the malleolar stria, caused by the manubrium shining through, passes superiorly towards the circumference. At the superior end of the stria a slight projection, the malleolar prominence, is formed by the lateral process of the malleus, and from it two folds, the anterior and posterior plicae, stretch to the extremities of the tym- panic sulcus (fig. 748). The small triangular area of the membrane bounded by the