838 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM into the frontal pole, where, upon reaching the superciliary border, it frequently bifurcates into a transverse furrow, known as the fronto-marginal sulcus. The inferior frontal gyrus forms the superior wall of the lateral fissure, and is separated from the middle frontal gyrus by the inferior frontal sulcus. This sulcus begins continuous with the inferior section of the precentral sulcus, and extends, very irregularly and frequently interrupted, towards the frontal pole. The gyrus abuts upon the anterior central gyrus, and its posterior portion is divided into three parts (the frontal opercula) by the anterior ascending and horizontal rami of the lateral fissure. The part behind the anterior ascending ramus is the opercular portion (a part of the fronto-parietal operculum or operculum proper), sometimes referred to as the basilar portion. In most brains this part is traversed by a short oblique furrow, the diagonal sulcus. The part bet ween the two anterior rami of the lateral fissure is the cap-shaped triangular portion. This portion frequently in- volves one and sometimes two descending twigs of the inferior frontal sulcus. The part below the anterior horizontal ramus is by position the orbital portion. It is seen that the inferior frontal gyrus gives rise to the whole of the frontal operculum and the anterior half of the fronto-parietal operculum. The opercular portion is of special interest in that in the left hemisphere it constitutes the celebrated convolution of Broca, con- cerned in the function of speech. The area controlling speech, however, involves the triangular portion as well, and both these parts often appear more developed on the left hemisphere. The development of the opercula of the inferior frontal gyrus is a distinctive characteristic of the human brain. This gyrus does not develop opercula even in the highest varieties of apes. The development of the function of speech in man no doubt influences the development of the frontal opercula. • On the basal surface of the frontal lobe is the orbital area and the gyrus rectus. The more pronounced of the orbital sulci are often so joined with each other as to form an H-shaped figure standing parallel to the mesial plane, and thus they com- prise an internal, an external, and a transverse orbital sulcus. This figure naturally divides the orbital area into four gyri:—(1) The external orbital gyrus is the basal continuation of the inferior frontal gyrus, and is thus related to the orbital portion of the frontal operculum; (2) the anterior orbital gyrus is continuous at the pole with the middle frontal gyrus; (3) the posterior orbital gyrus is closely related to the limen insulae and the stem of the lateral fissure, and its outer part is in relation with the orbital portion of the operculum; (4) the internal orbital gyrus is continuous over the superciliary border with the superior frontal gyrus. It frequently contains one or two short, isolated sulci. Its mesial boundary is the straight olfactory sulcus, in which lies the olfactory bulb and tract of the rhinencephalon. This sulcus marks off a narrow straight strip of cortex between it and the mesial border of the lobe known as the gyrus rectus. The posterior portion of the gyrus rectus comprises a part of the parolfactory area or Broca's area, which functionally belongs to the rhinencephalon. On the mesial surface of the frontal lobe the superior frontal gyrus is separated from the gyrus cinguli of the rhinencephalon (limbic lobe) by the well-marked sulcus cinguli. Anteriorly the superior frontal gyrus is subdivided by the main stem of the rostral sulci into a marginal gyrus, and what may be termed a submarginal gyrus. The marginal gyrus is usually broken into smaller parts by twigs of the rostral sulci, most of which are perpendicular to the main stem, while the submar- ginal gyrus is less frequently interrupted. Posteriorly the superior frontal gyrus constitutes the anterior portion of the paracentral lobule, a part of the somsesthetic area of the mesial surface of the hemisphere. This lobule is usually marked off an- teriorly by a vertical twig from the sulcus cinguli. The sulcus cinguli (calloso-marginal fissure) is the longest and one of the most prominent sulci on the mesial surface of the hemisphere. It divides the anterior portion of the mesial surface into a marginal part above and a callosal part below— in other words, it separates the superior frontal gyrus from the gyrus cinguli. Its subfrontal portion begins below the rostrum of the corpus callosum and curves forwards and upwards around the genu, and then turns backwards above the body of the corpus callosum. Before it reaches the level of the splenium, it turns upwards and cuts and terminates in the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, as the next sulcus behind the upper termination of the central sulcus. This upward turn is the marginal portion of the sulcus cinguli. It is sometimes an abrupt curve and some- times curves gradually, but its marginal relation to the upper end of the central sulcus