922 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM third of the deltoid and a small area of integument below the insertion of the muscle (fig. 680). One muscular branch is distributed to the teres minor; it swells out into an ovoid or fusiform, reddish, gangliform enlargement before entering the muscle. Other branches supply the lower and posterior part of the deltoid. The Radial (Musculo-spiral) Nerve is the largest branch of the brachial plexus. It contains fibres from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and sometimes from the fifth cervical and first thoracic nerves (figs. 675 and 678). It commences at the lower border of the pectoralis minor, as the direct continuation of the posterior cord of the plexus, and passes downwards and outwards in the axillary fossa behind the third part of the axillary artery (fig. 679) and in front of the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. From the lower border of the axillary fossa it descends into the arm, where it lies, at first, on the inner side of the upper third of the humerus, be- hind the brachial artery and in front of the long head of the triceps; then it runs ob- liquely downwards and outwards behind the middle third of the humerus, in the groove for the radial nerve (musculo-spiral groove), and between the outer and inner heads of the triceps. It is accompanied, in this part of its course, by the profunda artery. At the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the humerus it reaches the outer side of the arm, pierces the external intermuscular septum, and runs downwards and forwards between the brachio-radialis and extensor carpi radialislongus externally, and the brachialis internally (fig. 682), and it terminates, a short distance above the capitulum, by dividing into deep and superficial terminal branches. In the last part of its course it is accompanied by the anterior terminal branch of the profunda artery. Branches.—The branches of the radial or musculo-spiral nerve are cutaneous, muscular, articular, and terminal, but for practical purposes it is best to consider them in association with the situations of their origins. While it is in the axillary fossa the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve gives branches to the inner and long heads of the triceps (fig. 682), and an internal cutaneous branch. The branch to the long head of the triceps at once enters the substance of the muscle, that to the inner head breaks into branches which terminate in the muscle at different levels, and one of them, the ulnar collateral nerve, accompanies the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm. The posterior brachial (internal) cutaneous branch crosses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, passes behind the intercosto-brachial (intercosto-humeral) nerve, pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the skin of the middle of the back of the arm below the deltoid. While it lies behind the middle third of the humerus, the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve gives branches to the outer and inner heads of the triceps and to the anconeus. The latter branch descends in the substance of the inner head of the triceps, close to the bone, and it is accompanied by a small branch of the profunda artery. The dorsal antibrachial (external) cutaneous branch, passing down between the outer and inner heads of the triceps, divides near the elbow into its upper and lower branches (fig. 680), each of which perforates either the outer head of the triceps muscle near its attachment to the humerus or the external intermuscular septum. The upper branch, much the smaller, pierces the deep fascia in the line of the external inter- muscular septum; it accompanies the lower part of the cephalic vein, and supplies the skin over the lower half of the outer and anterior aspect of the arm. The lower branch is of considerable size. It pierces the deep fascia a little below the upper branch, runs behind the external condyle, and supplies the skin of the middle of the back of the forearm as far as the wrist, anastomosing with the medial antibrachial (internal) cutaneous and musculo-cutaneous nerves (fig. 683). After the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve has pierced the external intermuscular septum it gives branches to the brachio-radialis, extensor carpi radialis longus, and to the outer portion of the brachialis (fig. 683). From one of these branches an articular filament is distributed to the elbow-joint. The terminal branches are:—a motor branch, the deep radial (posterior inter- osseous) , and a sensory branch, the superficial radial (radial). The deep radial (posterior interosseous) nerve runs downwards in the interval between the brachialis and extensor carpi radialis longus. It passes in front of the outer part of the elbow-joint, and after giving off branches to supply the extensor carpi radialis brevis and supinator, it is crossed in front by the radial recurrent artery (fig. 683). It then runs downwards and backwards through the substance of the supinator, and enters the interval between the superficial and deep layers of