916 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM sheath. From this loop the two bellies of the omo-hyoid muscle and the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyreoid muscles are supplied. The muscular branches supply the rectus capitis lateralis, the longus capitis (rectus capitis anterior major), the rectus capitis anterior (minor), the scalenus an- terior, and the diaphragm. The nerve to the latter muscle is the phrenic. 1. The branch to the Rectus Capitis Lateralis is furnished to that muscle by the first nerve as it crosses the deep surface of the muscle. 2. The nerve to the Rectus Capitis Anterior (minor) is given off by the first nerve at the upper part of the loop in front of the transverse process Of the atlas. 3. The Longus Capitis (rectus capitis anterior major) receives twigs from the upper four cervical nerves. 4. The Longus Colli receives branches from the second, third, and fourth cervi- cal nerves, and additional branches also from the fifth and sixth nerves. 5. The Phrenic Nerve (fig. 676) springs chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve, but it usually receives a twig from the third and another from the fifth cervical nerve, a small communicating branch from the sympathetic, and, rarely, a branch from the vagus. The twig from the fifth cervical nerve is frequently connected with the nerve to the subclavius. After the union of its roots the phrenic nerve passes downwards and inwards on the scalenus anterior (fig. 679). In this part of its course it is crossed by the tendon of the omo-hyoid and by the transverse cervical and transverse scapular (suprascapular) arteries. It is overlapped by the internal jugular vein, and it is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle. At the root of the neck the left phrenic nerve lies behind the terminal portion of the thoracic duct, and each nerve passes off the anterior border of the scalenus anterior and descends in front of the first part of the subclavian artery and the pleura immediately below that artery; it passes behind the terminal part of the subclavian vein, crosses either in front of or behind the internal mammary artery and gains the inner surface of the pleural sac. From the root of the neck the relations of the phrenic nerves differ. The right phrenic nerve descends along the inner surface of the right pleural sac and crosses in front of the root of the lung. It is accompanied by the pericardiaco-phrenic artery (comes nervi phrenici), and it is in relation internally, and from above downwards, with the right innominate vein, the superior vena cava, and the pericardium, the latter membrane separating it from the wall of the right atrium (auricle). The left phrenic nerve descends along the inner surface of the left pleural sac accompanied by the pericardiaco-phrenic (comes nervi phrenici) artery. In the superior mediastinum it lies between the left common carotid and the left subclavian arteries, and it crosses in front of the left vagus, the left superior intercostal vein, and the arch of the aorta. Below the arch of the aorta it crosses in front of the root of the left lung, and then lies along the left lateral surface of the pericardium, which separates it from the wall of the left ventricle. Branches.—Both phrenic nerves distribute branches to the pericardium and to the pleura. The right nerve gives off a branch, pericardiac, which accompanies the superior vena cava and supplies the pericardium. Each phrenic nerve divides into numerous terminal phrenico-abdominal branches. As a rule, the right phrenic nerve divides into two main terminal branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch runs forwards and one of its terminal filaments anastomoses with the phrenic of the opposite side in front of the pericardium; others descend between the sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm into the abdomen, where some of them supply the diaphragm and others descend in the falciform ligament to the peritoneum of the upper surface of the liver. The posterior branch passes through the vena caval opening and ramifies upon the lower surface of the diaphragm, anastomosing with the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic, and its terminal branches supply the muscular fibres of the right half of the diaphragm, the inferior vena cava, and the right suprarenal gland. The left phrenic nerve divides into several branches. One of the most anterior branches anastomoses with the right phrenic nerve; the others pierce the diaphragm and ramify on its under surface, where they anastomose with filaments of the left diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic and supply the left half of the diaphragm and the left suprarenal gland. The left phrenic nerve is considerably longer than the right nerve, partly on account of the lower level of the diaphragm on the left side, and partly on account of the greater convexity of the left side of the pericardium.