THE NERVOUS SYSTEM S86 bones appears very uneven, and when placed in water presents a floeculent appearance. This is due to the many fine bundles of connective tissue and the blood-vessels which pass between the dura and the cranial bones and which are partially pulled out of their openings in the latter in the process of separation. The abundance of these connections, and, therefore, the degree of adhesion to the bones, varies in different localities. The separation is much less difficult from the inner table of the bones of the vault of the cranium than from the bones of the base of the cavity. The adhe- sions to the vault of the cranium are most firm along the lines of the sutures. This is due to the fact that during the period before the sutures are closed the outer layer of the dura mater is directly continuous with the external periosteum, and, in conse- quence of this condition during development, the connective-tissue connection is more Fig. 658.—The Dura Mater Encephali of the Base of the Cranium. (After Toldt, "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Rebman, London and New York.) POSITION OF CRISTA GALLI Circular sinus \ \ \ Circular sinus PROCESS OF DORA IN FORAMEN C/ECUM / OLFACTORY BULB OPTIC NERVE v Ophthalmic vein Cavernous sinus Connection with the ■ rete ojforamen ovale Middle meningeal artery Inferior petrosal sinus Internal carotid artery Bull} of the internal jugular vein Transverse sinus - Mastoid vein — Vertebral artery FOLD OF DURA MATER OPTIC NERVE MAXILLARY NER VE MANDIBULAR - NER VE ABDUCENS NERVE SUPERFICIAL PETROSAL NER VE FACIAL NERVE "■- A CO US TIC NER IE - GLOSSOPHARYN- GEAL NER VE VA G US NER VE ACCESSORY NERVE GLOSSAL NERVE FIRST SPINAL NERVE abundant along these lines and some is even caught in the closure of the sutures. Along the vault there are occasionally noticed small lymph-spaces between the bone and the dura mater. The stronger adherence to the base of the cranial cavity is due to the numerous foramina in the floor, through which all the larger cranial blood- vessels and the cranial nerves pass, and the dura mater is continuous with the con- nective-tissue investments of these as well as with the periosteum lining the foramina. Also the floor of the cavity is more uneven than the vault, and the projections of the bones here tend to increase the firmness of attachment. The weight of the brain upon the floor probably contributes to the result. The inner surface of the inner layer of the cranial dura mater forms the outer boun- dary of the subdural cavity. Except for the occasional delicate subdural trabeculse and the passage of blood-vessels and nerve-roots, this surface appears smooth and