THE CRANIAL DURA MATER 885 nerve-roots through it. The dura is also pierced by the spinal rami of the vertebral arteries, and the connective tissue of the outer walls of these vessels blends with all three of the meninges. The filum terminale of the pia mater extends below the ter- mination of the spinal cord into the point of the funnel-shaped end of the dura mater, and there blends with it in line with the coccygeal ligament of the outer surface. The tube of the spinal dura mater varies in calibre with the variat ions in the diam- eter of the spinal cord. However, the termination of its cavity occurs about seven segments below the termination of the spinal cord. This extension contains the long intra-dural nerve-roots forming the cauda equina, and the calibre of this part, before its sudden contraction, is about as great as that found in any other region. As each pair of nerve-roots of the cauda equina passes outwards, they lie free for a variable distance in a tubular extension of the dura before the latter blends with and con- tributes to the thickness of their sheath. The subdural cavity, the space between the dura mater and the arachnoid, is the thinnest of the meningeal spaces. Along the ventral aspect especially, the spinal arachnoid is quite closely applied to the inner surface of the dura mater. It con- tains a small amount of cerebro-spinal fluid (lymph) which prevents friction between Fig. 657.—View of Membranes op Spinal Cord from Ventral Aspect. (Ellis.) the opposing surfaces, and is continuous with the fluid in the like space of the cranial meninges. The space communicates with the venous sinuses of the cranium in the region of the Pacchionian bodies, and its fluid is likewise in contact with the blood-vessels passing through it. It is probably continuous with the lymph-spaces of the nerve-roots passing through it, for colored fluids injected into it pass into the nerve-roots. The arachnoid is so thin and gauze-like that a ready interchange of fluids between this space and the subarachnoid space is possible by simple filtration. The cranial dura mater.—The dura mater investing the brain performs a double function—it serves as an internal periosteum for the cranial bones and gives support and protection to the brain. In conformity with its double function it consists of two layers, easily separable in the child, but closely adhering to each other in the adult, except in occasional localities, where there exist small clefts lined with epithe- lium. The large blood sinuses and venous lacunae are placed between the two layers and the semilunar ganglia of the trigemini also lie between them. The cranial dura begins with the adhesion of the spinal dura mater to the periosteum of the foramen magnum, and it forms a sac-like envelope about the entire encephalon. Consisting of two layers, it is a much thicker membrane than that of the spinal cord. The outer surface of the cranial dura mater when torn away from the cranial Ligamentum denticulatum