ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1070 Muscles.—The muscles are grouped as dilators and constrictors, the latter being comparatively feeble in their action. They are described on pp. 330 and 331. The skin covering the external nose is thin and freely movable upon the sub- jacent parts, except at the tip and over the cartilages, where it is much thicker, more adherent, and furnished with numerous large sebaceous glands. At the nares it is reflected into the nasal cavity as far as the limen, where it joins the mucous membrane. The hairs on the skin of the nose are very fine, except in the nares, where they may be strongly developed, and are then known as vibrissas. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the external nose are derived from the external maxil- lary (facial) artery (pp. 523 and 524), the ophthalmic artery (p. 538), and the infra-orbital artery (p. 531). The veins terminate in the facial vein and the ophthalmic vein (p. 662). The lymphatics pass to the submaxillary lymphatic nodes (p. 708). The motor nerves are branches of the facial (p. 979). The sensory nerves are derived from the fifth through the frontal and naso-ciliary branches of the ophthalmic (p. 966) and infra-orbital branch of the maxillary (p. 968). The nasal cavity is composed of the two nasal fossae, the bony walls of which have already been described (pp. 101-104). The nasal fossae extend" from the ventral Fig. 786.—Oblique Section passing through the Nasal Fossae just in Front op the Choan.e. (Seen from behind.) opening upon the face, the nares, to the dorsal communication with the pharynx, the choanae or posterior nares. Each fossa has a roof, a floor, a lateral and medial wall. The medial wall (fig. 767) separates the two fossse. Its framework is formed by the vertical median nasal septum, which is composed of the osseous septum superiorly, the cartilaginous septum intermediately, and of the membranous or mobile septum inferiorly. As already noted, the septum is usually deflected to one side or the other. In the septum, upon each side, just superior to the nasal spines of the maxillse, there is frequently a minute opening leading superiorly and dorsally and ending in a blind pouch. This cavity is closely related to the vomero-nasal cartilage and is a rudimentary representative of the vomero-nasal organ (organ of Jacobson), which in some animals is well developed and receives a branch of the olfactory nerve. Inferior and dorsal to its opening another small opening is often seen on the floor of the nasal fossa. This is the mouth of the incisive duct, which leads into the incisive canal for a greater or less distance and may even extend to the