1025 EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL the ciliary muscle. On this surface numerous white nerve-oords are visible running forwards. Observe that the iris, the ciliary processes, etc., and the chorioid are all different parts of the same ocular tunic—mere local modifications of it. Similarly the sclerotic and cornea are seen to blend together to form one outer coat. An eyeball should now be placed for half an hour in a freezing mixture of crushed ice and ■salt. It will thus become quite hard, and should at once be divided into two parts by cutting it antero-posteriorly through the centre of the cornea and the optic nerve. We thus gain another view of the relations of parts, the position of the lens between the aqueous and vitreous chambers, etc. On removing the lens, vitreous, and retina, and brushing off its pigment, the light mark- ings corresponding to the chorioidal veins (venae vorticosae) should be noted, and their distri- bution studied. Usually four vortices or fountain-like markings are found in the whole chorioid, their points of junction situated at approximately equal distances from one another at about the line where the posterior and middle thirds of the globe meet. These sections should be kept for reference while following the further description of the ocular tunics. 1. The outer, fibrous coat of the eye is'formed by the sclerotic and cornea, which pass into one another at the scleral sulcus. It consists throughout mainly of fine connective-tissue fibres, arranged in interlacing bundles, with small lymph- spaces at intervals between them. The naked-eye appearance of the two divisions of this fibrous coat is, however, quite different, the cornea being transparent, while the sclerotic is white and opaque. The sclerotic encloses the posterior five-sixths or so of the eyeball, but there is a hole in it at the entrance of the optic nerve (foramen sclerae), only partially bridged across by fibres from its inner layers forming the lamina cribrosa. The fibre-bundles composing the sclerotic are arranged more irregularly than in the cornea, and run mainly in two directions, viz., from before backwards, and circularly; the circular fibres are particularly well developed just behind the sulcus. It is thickest (about 1mm.) posteriorly, where it is strengthened chiefly by the outer Fig. 726.—Equatorial Section of Eyeball: Anterior Segment viewed from behind. (After Merkel.) sheath of the optic nerve, and partly also by the tissue surrounding the ciliary vessels and nerves. It becomes gradually thinner as it passes forwards, up to the line of insertion of the recti muscles, in front of which line it is again reinforced by their tendinous fibres becoming incorporated with it. In children the sclerotic is often so thin as to allow the underlying chorioidal pigment to show through, appearing then of a bluish white. In the aged, again, it is sometimes yellowish. It always contains a few pigment cells, but these are in the deep layer (lamina fusca), and only become visible externally where the sclerotic is pierced by vessels and nerves going to the chorioid. It is itself almost non-vascular, but quite at its ante- rior end a large venous sinus (canal of Schlemm) runs in its deeper layers circu- larly around the cornea. Just in front of this sinus, at the corneal limbus, the sclerotic merges into the cornea, its deep layers changing first, and finally the super- ficial ones. The cornea is thickest at its periphery, and becomes gradually thinner towards its centre; the curvature of its posterior is consequently greater than that of its anterior surface, but even the latter is more curved than the surface of the sclerotic. In the cornea proper, fibre-bundles are arranged so as to form a series of super- posed lamellae, each of which is connected here and there to the adjacent ones by fibres passing from one to the other, so that they can only be torn apart with diffi- culty. The corneal lymph-spaces communicate with one another by very fine canals, and thus not only is a thorough lymph-circulation provided for, but the protoplasm with which these spaces are partially occupied may be also regarded as continuous throughout. It contains no blood-vessels, with the exception of a rich plexus at its extreme periphery, on which its nutrition is ultimately dependent. PLIC/E CILIARES 65