784 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM appear ribbed, owing to bundles of the external arcuate fibres passing across them to and from the restiform body, which occupies the extreme lateral portion of the medulla. Along the line between the restiform body and the olives are attached the root filaments of the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal accessory nerves. Both the abduccns and the facial nerve emerge along the border of the pons, the facial in line with the glosso-pharyngeal, but the abducens in line with the hypoglossus. Dorsal aspect.—The increased lateral diameter of the medulla oblongata is contributed to a great extent by the restiform bodies. These are the inferior cere- bellar peduncles, and contain the majority of both the ascending and the descend- ing fibres, which connect the cerebellum with the structures below it . In toto, the restiform bodies are much larger than could be formed by the combined cerebellar Fig. 581.—Diagram Showing the Decussation of the Pyramids. The uppermost level represented is near the inferior border of the pons. TELA CHORIOIDEA OF FOURTH VENTRICLE SOLITARY TRACT - NUCLEUS N. VESTIBULI (VII) ■ RESTIFORM BODY . SPINAL TRACT OF TRI- GEMINUS ■' NUCLEUS N. COCIILEARIS (VIII) - N. VAGUS N. HYPOGLOSSUS PYRAMID SPINAL TRACT OF TRIGEMINUS DECUSSATION OF PYRAMIDS LATERAL CEREBROSPINAL FASCICULUS (crossed pyramidal tract) VENTRAL CEREBROSPINAL FASCICULUS (direct pyramidal tract) fasciculi of the spinal cord, their great size being due to their receiving numerous axones coursing in both directions, which connect the cerebellum with structures contained in the medulla oblongata alone, so that in the medulla they increase as they approach the cerebellum. Their name (restiform meaning rope-like) was sug- gested from the appearance frequently given them by the fibres of the cochlear (acoustic) division of the eighth cranial nerve, which course around their lateral periphery to become the strice medullar-es acustici in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Upon removal of the cerebellum it may be seen that below the calamus scrip- torius (inferior terminus of the fourth ventricle) the structures manifest in the dor- sal surface of the medulla are directly continuous with those of the spinal cord. The fasciculus gracilis (Goll's column) of the spinal cord acquires a greater height and volume and becomes the funiculus gracilis of the medulla, and because of this