911 THE CERVICAL PLEXUS Cervical Nerves The anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves unite to form the cervical plexus, and each receives a communicating branch from the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion. The anterior divisions of the lower four cervical nerves are joined by the greater part of the first thoracic nerve and they unite to form the brachial plexus (figs. 675, 678, 679). The fifth and sixth cervical nerves receive communicating branches from the middle cervical sympathetic ganglion, and the seventh and eighth from the inferior cervical ganglion, while the first thoracic nerve is always connected with the first thoracic sympathetic ganglion by a grey ramus (figs. 675 and 718) and in most cases also by a white ramus communicans. THE CERVICAL PLEXUS The cervical plexus (figs. 675 and 676) is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves which constitute the roots of the plexus. It lies in the upper part of the side of the neck, under cover of the sterno-mastoid, and upon the levator scapulae and the scalenus medius. It is a looped plexus, consisting of three loops. The convexity of the upper loop is turned forwards, and the convexi- ties of the lower two loops are directed backwards. As the anterior primary division of the first cervical nerve passes to the plexus it runs outwards on the posterior arch of the atlas beneath the vertebral artery, then it turns forwards, between the vertebral artery and the outer side of the upper articular process of the atlas, and finally it descends, in front of the transverse process of the atlas, and unites with the upper branch of the second nerve, forming with it the first loop of the plexus. It gives branches to the rectus capitis lateralis, longus capitis (rectus capitis anterior major), and to the rectus capitis anterior (minor). It communicates with the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus, with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic system, and by two branches with the hypoglossal nerve (fig. 676). These communications with the latter form the descendens hypoglossi and give the branches to the genio-hyoid and thyreo-hyoid muscles. The second cervical nerve (anterior primary division) passes behind the upper articular process of the axis and the vertebral artery, and between the intertrans- verse muscles extending from the first to the second cervical vertebra?, to the inter- val between the scalenus medius and the longus capitis (rectus capitis anterior major), where it divides into two parts. The upper part ascends and unites with the first nerve to form the first loop of the plexus, and the lower branch passes down- wards and backwards and joins the upper branch of the third nerve in the second loop of the plexus (figs. 675, 676). It gives off the small occipital nerve and a fila- ment to the sterno-mastoid, which communicates with the spinal accessory nerve in the substance of the muscle, and it gives branches which assist in forming the ansa hypoglossi, the cervical cutaneous, and the great auricular nerve (fig. 676). The third and fourth cervical nerves pass behind the vertebral artery (fig. 675) and between the intertransverse muscles to the interval between the scalenus medius and the longus capitis (rectus capitis anterior major), where the third unites with the second and fourth nerves and completes the lower two loops of the plexus. The anterior divisions of these nerves are about double the size of the preceding. The third gives off a branch to the ansa hypoglossi, the larger part of the great auricular and cervical cutaneous nerves, a branch to the phrenic, a branch to the supra-clavi- cular nerves, and muscular branches to the scalenus medius, levator scapulae, longus capitis, and trapezius (fig. 676). This last branch communicates with the spinal accessory nerve beneath the muscle. The fourth nerve gives a branch to the phrenic, a branch to the supra-clavicular nerves, and muscular branches to the scalenus medius, levator scapulae, longus colli, and trapezius (fig. 676). The branch to the trapezius unites with one from the third nerve and communicates with the spinal accessory nerve beneath the muscle. Each root of the plexus receives a communicating grey ramus from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and from the roots and loops of the plexus a number of branches arise which form two main groups, the superficial and the deep.