THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 774 of each varies with the locality, both being greatest in the enlargements. The grey substance predominates in the conus medullaris and lower lumbar segments. The white substance begins to predominate in the upper lumbar segments, not because of the increased presence of cerebro- and cerebello-spinal axones, but because of the increased volume of the fasciculi proprii coincident with the greater mass of grey substance to be intersegmentally associated in this region. In the thoracic region the Fig. 573.—Graphic Representation of the Varying Amounts of Grey and White Sub- stance AND OF THE VARIATIONS IN AREA OF ENTIRE SECTIONS OF THE DIFFERENT SEGMENTS of the Spinal Cord. (From Donaldson and Davis.) (Based upon measurements from several adult human spinal cords.) Curves showing area of cross seel ion of human spinal cord. Grey mailer. Enlire seclion. 100 80 60 40 20 JnifliyyviwjMii D ra w E D ID ffl IX X XI XII 1 II 111 IV ¥ 1 11 111 If VJI CERVICAL THORACIC LUMBAR SACRAL predominating white substance is composed mostly of the axones of long course. The greatly increased amount of white substance in the cervical region is due both to the greater accumulation of cerebro- and cerebello-spinal axones in this region and to the increased volume of the fasciculi proprii of the cervical enlargement. ORDER OF MEDULLATION OF THE FASCICULI OF THE CORD The axones of the spinal cord begin to acquire their myelin sheaths during the fifth month of intra-uterine life. In general, axones which have the same origin and the same locality of termination—the same function—acquire their sheaths at the same time. While it has been proved that the medullary sheath does not necessarily precede the functioning of an axone, it may be said that those fasciculi which first at- tain complete and definite functional ability are the first to become medullated. At birth all the fasciculi of the spinal cord are medullated except Hehveg's fasciculus, and occasionally the pyramidal tracts. As indicated by their medullation, those axones by which the cord is enabled to function as an organ per se, that is, the axones making possible the simpler reflex activities, complete their development before those axones which involve the brain with the activities of the cord. According to Flechsig and van Gehuchten, and investigators succeeding them, the following is the order in which the axones of the cord become medullated:— (1) The afferent and efferent nerve-roots and commissural fibres of the grey sub- stance. (2) The fasciculi proprii, first the ventral, then the lateral, and last the dorsal, fasciculus proprius. (3) The fasciculus cuneatus (Burdach's column) and Lissauer's zone—the area of those ascending cerebro-spinal fibres which run the shorter course. (4) Fasciculus gracilis (doll's column). (5) The cerebello-spinal fasciculus (direct cerebellar tract). (6) The superficial antero-lateral fasciculus (dowers' tract). (7) The lateral cerebro-spinal fasciculus (crossed pyramidal) and the ventral cerebro-spinal fasciculus (direct pyramidal tract). (8) Helweg's (Bechterew's) fasciculus.