808 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The facial nerve is also composed of two parts. Its larger part is purely efferent or motor, while its considerably smaller root or pars intermedia contains for the most part sensory fibres. Both the facial nerve and the abducens have their nuclei within the level of the pons, though the roots of both appear from under its inferior border. The nucleus of origin of the motor portion of the facial lies in the ventro-lateral region of the reticular formation, in line with the nucleus ambiguus. The axones given off by the cells of this nucleus collect into a bundle which, instead of passing ventrally and directly to the exterior, courses at first dorso-mesially up to the mesial side of the nucleus of origin of the abducens (ascending root of the facial); then it turns and courses anteriorly for a few millimetres, parallel with the nucleus of the abducens and immediately beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle (genu facialis); then it again turns abruptly and pursues a ventro-lateral direction to its point of exit at the inferior border of the pons, near the entrance of the vestibular nerve. Its exit usually involves a few of the pons fibres. In transverse sections through the middle of the nucleus of the abducens the genu of the facial appears as a compact, transversely cut bundle at the dorso-medial side of this nucleus. The pars intermedia (nervus intermedius) of the facial is chiefly afferent or sen- sory. It is said to contain efferent secretory (salivary) fibres which arise from cells scattered in the reticular formation about the dorsal periphery of the facial nucleus. Though in company with the large motor portion during the exit of the latter, yet, quite close to the point of attachment, the pars intermedia may frequently be dis- tinguished as a separate root. Shortly, however, it becomes intimately united with the main trunk. Its afferent fibres arise from the cells of the geniculate ganglion of the facial, and from numerous cells scattered within the trunk of the nerve. These cells correspond to those of the spinal ganglia, each giving off a single process which bifurcates into a peripheral and a central branch. The central branch finds its nucleus of termination in what may be called the mixed lateral sensory area of the brain-stem—the region bounded by the nucleus of termination of the vestibular nerve, the superior extremity of the nucleus of the solitary tract, and the nucleus of termination of the trigeminus. The nucleus of origin of the (motor) facial nerve receives impulses from the lower portion of the anterior central gyrus of the cerebral cortex by way of the pyramid, which gives off fibres both to the nucleus of the same side and by way of arcuate fibres through the raphe to the nucleus of the opposite side. It also receives fibres from the root of the trigeminus, the great sensory nerve of the face, and from the central connections of the auditory nerve. The abducens is a small, purely motor nerve, which supplies the external rectus muscle of the eye. Its nucleus of origin lies close to the mid-line in the medial em- inence of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in line with that of the hypoglossus. Its root-fibres pursue a ventral course, inclining a little outwards and curving in- feriorly to emerge from under the inferior border of the pons. They pass lateral to the pyramid, and often between some of its fasciculi. The nucleus receives cortical or voluntary impulses by way of the pyramid, chiefly of the opposite side. Its con- nection with the auditory apparatus and the medial longitudinal fasciculus has already been noted. It probably receives afferent impulses through the fibres of the trigeminus. The trigeminus is considerably larger than any of the nerves inferior to it, and has the most extensive central connections of any of the cranial nerves. It is a mixed nerve, but, unlike the facial, its sensorij root is the larger (portio major) and its small motor root (portio minor) is separate from the main trunk soon after its emer- gence. The two roots pass together through the brachium pontis in line with the facial nerve, and find their nuclei in the grey substance underlying the floor of the fourth ventricle. The large sensory portion serves as the nerve of general sensibility for the face from the vertex of the scalp downwards, and thus it corresponds to the afferent fibres not only for its own motor root, but of all the nerves giving motor supply to structures underlying its domain. Its fibres arise from its large, trilobed, semilunar ((iasserian) ganglion, situated outside the brain. This corresponds to the dorsal root ganglion of a spinal nerve, and its cells give off the characteristic T-fibres with periph- eral and central branches. The central or afferent branches upon entering the brain- stem bifurcate into ascending and descending divisions, just as the entering dorsal