ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1030 have been described in it, but these are really artificial products. In certain situa- tions spaces exist in the vitreous mass, the most determinate of which runs in the form of a canal from the optic papilla to the posterior pole of the lens, corresponding to the position of the fcetal hyaloid artery (hyaloid canal, or canal of Cloquet). Other very fine spaces are described running circularly in the peripheral part of the vitreous concentric with its outer surface. Microscopically, wandering cells are found in the vitreous, which often here assume peculiar forms which the observer can, not infrequently, study subjectively. The aqueous humour is a clear, watery fluid, occupying the space between the cornea on the one hand, and the ciliary body, suspensory ligament, and lens on Fig. 729.—Diagrammatic Representation of the Blood-vessels of the Eyeball. (Leber.) Arteries red; veins blue. Canal of Schlemm and con- nections with anterior ciliary vein Branch from cilian/ body to anterior ciliary vein Vessels o f ciliary processes Vein from iris and ciliary body to vena vorticosa Branch from short posterior ciliary artery to optic nerve Short posterior ciliiry artery Vena centralis retinal Marginal corneal plexus Anterior conjunctival vein Circulus iridis major Posterior conjunctival vein Anterior ciliary vein Posterior conjunctival artery Anterior ciliary artery Episcleral vein Episcleral artery Vena vorticosa Posterior long ciliary artery Posterior short ciliary arteries Vessels of pial sheath of optic nerve Vessels of dural sheath Arteria centralis retinal the other. The iris, projecting into this space, has both its surfaces bathed in the aqueous; but, as its inner part rests on the lens, it is regarded as dividing the space into two parts, an anterior larger, and a posterior smaller, aqueous chamber, which communicate freely through the pupil. Ciliary nerves of the eyeball.—The long and short ciliary nerves, after per- forating the sclerotic, run forwards between it and the chorioid to the ciliary region, where they form a plexus, from which proceed branches for the ciliary muscle, the iris, and the cornea. The nerves of the iris enter it at its ciliary border, and run towards its pupillary edge, losing their medullary sheath sooner or later, and sup-