THE BLOOD SUPPLY OF THE ENCEPHALON 881 eighth nerves, supply their fibres and the adjacent parts, and they end in the grey nuclei with which the nerve-fibres are connected. The intermediate arteries enter the surfaces of the pons irregularly and break up into capillaries in its substance. The veins form a plexus on the surface. The upper and lateral part of this plexus is drained into the basilar vein on each side, and the lower part is connected by efferent channels with the inferior petrosal sinus and the cerebellar veins. The Blood-vessels of the Medulla Oblongata.—The arteries of the medulla are derived directly from the vertebral arteries, from their anterior and posterior spinal and posterior inferior cerebellar branches, and from the basilar artery. The branches of these vessels form a plexus in the pia mater from which, and from the arteries themselves, three main groups of vessels pass into the medulla—the chorioidal, the central, and the peripheral. The chorioidal arteries are derived chiefly from the posterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Their relation to the medulla is described on p. 546. The anterior central arteries rise from the anterior spinal arteries, from the basilar artery, and from the peripheral plexus; they pass backwards along the raphe, supplying the adjacent parts of the ventral funiculi and the olivary bodies, and they break up into fine terminals in the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle around the nuclei of the cranial nerves. The posterior central arteries spring from the posterior spinal arteries; they pass down the median septum of the lower part of the medulla and supply the adjacent Fig. 654.—Showing the Capillary Supply of the Cerebellar Cortex. (After Aby, "Journal of Comparative Neurology," Vol. IX.) Capillaries of molecular layer LINE OF THE PUR- KINJE CELLS Recurrent capillaries to granular layer Arteriole pass- ing through cortex to medulla Recurrent capillaries to granular layer LINE OF THE PUR- KINJE CELLS Arteriole passing through cortex to medulla Recurrent capillary to granular layer Recurrent ca- pillaries to molecular layer JCXVTION OF CORTEX AND ME- DULLA Capillaries of molecular JUNCTION OF COR- TEX AND MED- ULLA Arteriole passing through cortex to medulla nervous substance. The peripheral arteries, like those of the spinal cord, are separable into radicular and intermediate groups. The radicular arteries pass from the anterior and posterior spinal branches and from the trunks of the vertebral arteries and accompany the fibres of the last four cranial nerves into the substance of the medulla. They supply the nerve-roots and adjacent white substance and they terminate in capillaries in the grey substance of the lateral part of the floor of the ventricle. The intermediate peripheral arteries spring from the arteries previously named and from the peripheral plexus, and they pass directly into the columns of the medulla, where they terminate in a capillary plexus which supplies the white substance and the grey nuclei; some of these arteries, more especially those derived from the posterior inferior cerebellar and the posterior spinal arteries, extend inwards to the lateral part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The veins which issue from the medulla form a peripheral plexus in the pia mater in which there are two main longitudinal channels, an anterior median and a posterior median vein. The former communicates below with the anterior median vein of the cord, and above with the veins of the pons and with the veins which accompany the hypoglossal nerves. The latter veins empty into the internal jugular veins. The posterior median vein is continuous below with the corresponding vein of the cord, and above, in the region of the calamus scriptorius, it divides into branches which join the radicular veins. The blood is carried away from the peripheral 56