S32 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM inferior surface, are the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle, the fornix, the septum pellucidum, and the medial walls of the lateral ventricles. Each cerebral hemisphere includes—(1) a superficial and much folded mantle or pallium, divided into lobes and gyri, and consisting of grey substance, the cortex, covering an abundant mass of white substance; (2) a modified portion, the rhinen- cephalon, having especially to do with the impulses brought in by the olfactory nerve; (3) a cavity, the lateral ventricle; and (4) a buried mass of grey substance or basal ganglia which together with the internal capsule of white substance, is known as the corpus striatum. Gyri, fissures, and sulci.—The cerebral pallium is thrown into numerous and variable folds or gyri (convolutions). These are separated from each other by corre- sponding furrows, the deeper and most constant of which are called fissures; the re- mainder, sulci. All the fissures and the main sulci are named. There are, however, numerous small and shallow sulci to which names are seldom given. These occur as short branches of main sulci or as short, isolated furrows bounding small gyri which connect adjacent gyri. These small gyri are likewise seldom given individual names. They are very variable both in different specimens and in the two hemi- spheres of the same specimen. Collectively, they are the so-called gyri transitivi. Certain groups of them are named according to their locality, such as orbital gyri and lateral occipital gyri. Even the main gyri (and sulci) are very irregular in detail. Some of the main and deeper fissures are considerably deeper than others. Some are infoldings of the grey cortex, so deep that a portion of their course may be indicated as slight bulgings in the walls of the lateral ventricles, e.g., the hippocampal and collateral fissures. While the general surface pattern is similar for all normal human brains, yet when a detailed comparison is made, the given gyri of different specimens are found to vary greatly. Neither are the main gyri of the two hemispheres of the same brain ever entirely alike. Origin of the Gyri.—The gyri (and sulci) are the result of processes of unequal growth— folds necessarily resulting from the surface portion of the hemispheres increasing much more rapidly than the central core. In the early periods of fetal life the surfaces of the hemispheres are quite smooth. In many of the smaller mammals this condition is retained throughout life, but in the larger mammals, including man, as development proceeds the cerebral cortex becomes thrown into folds. The absolute amount of the grey substance of the hemispheres varies with