926 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM In the upper part of the forearm it lies on the flexor digitorum profundus, covered by the flexor carpi ulnaris. Near the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm it is joined by the ulnar artery, which accompanies it to its termination, lying throughout on its radial side (fig. 683). In the lower part of the forearm it still rests on the flexor digitorum profundus, but between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum sublimis, and is covered only by skin and fascia. At a variable point in this part of the forearm, usually about 5 to 8 cm. (2 to 3 in.) from the carpus, the nerve divides into its two terminal branches, a dorsal branch to the dorsal aspect of the hand, and a volar branch to the volar aspect. Branches.—The ulnar resembles the median nerve in not furnishing any branches to the upper arm. As it passes between the olecranon process and the internal condyle it gives off two or three fine filaments to the elbow-joint. In the upper part of the forearm it supplies the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner portion of the flexor digitorum profundus, and in the lower half it gives off the three cutaneous branches. In the palm of the hand it supplies the integument of the hypothenar eminence, the fifth digit, and half of the fourth digit, and part of the skin of the dorsum. It also supplies the short intrinsic muscles of the hand with the exception of the abductor pollicis, the opponens, the outer head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the two outer lumbricales. The nerves to the flexor carpi ulnaris and to the inner two divisions of the flexor digitorum profundus arise from the ulnar nerve in the upper third of the forearm. Cutaneous Branches.—About the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve gives off two cutaneous branches:—one pierces the fascia and anastomoses with the volar branch of the medial antebrachial (internal) cutaneous nerve, and the other, the palmar cutaneous branch, runs downwards in front of the ulnar artery (fig. 683), and is conducted by the vessel into the palm (fig. 680). It furnishes some filaments to the vessel, supplies a few twigs to the skin of the hypothenar eminence, and ends in the integument covering the central depressed surface of the palm. The dorsal or posterior cutaneous branch, usually the smaller of the terminal branches, arises about 5 cm. (2 in.) above the wrist-joint, and passes backwards under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris to reach the dorsal aspect of the wrist (fig. 684), where it gives off delicate branches to anastomose with branches of the medial antebrachial (internal) cutaneous, the dorsal antebrachial (external) cutaneous branch of the radial (musculo-spiral), the lateral antebrachial cutaneous of the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve, and with branches of the superficial radial, and then divides into five branches, the dorsal digitals (fig. 681), which are distributed to the ulnar sides of the third, fourth, and fifth digits and the radial sides of the fourth and fifth digits. These branches usually extend on the fifth digit only as far as the base of the terminal phalanx, and on the fourth digit as far as the base of the second phalanx. The more distal parts of these digits are supplied by palmar digital branches of the ulnar nerve. The volar branch, the other terminal branch of the ulnar nerve, continues its course between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum sublimis, on the inner side of the ulnar artery, to the wrist, where, on the outer side of the pisiform bone, it divides into a superficial and a deep branch (figs. 683 and 684). The latter accompanies the deep branch of t he ulnar artery into the interval between the abductor digiti quinti and flexor digiti quinti brevis, and then passes through the fibres of the opponens digiti quinti to reach the deep surface of the flexor tendons and their synovial sheaths. It supplies the abductor and opponens digiti quinti, the flexor digiti quinti brevis, the third and fourth lumbricales, all the interossei, the adductors of the thumb, and the inner head, and occasionally the outer head, of the flexor pollicis brevis. The superficial branch gives off a branch to supply the palmaris brevis muscle, an anastomosing branch to the median nerve, and then divides into two branches,.the proper volar digital branch, which is distributed to the inner side of the fifth digit on its volar aspect, and the common volar digital branch, which passes underneath the palmar aponeurosis and divides into two branches, which supply the contiguous margins of the fourth and fifth digits. These branches usually supply also the dorsal surface of the second and third phalanges of the same digits. The Median Nerve contains fibres of the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves and of the first thoracic, and sometimes of the fifth cervical nerve. The