861 THE THALAMUS passing between the two through the internal capsule directly, and by fibres curving from below, chiefly from the lateral and medial nuclei, and passing in the ansa lentic- ularis. The cortical connections of the thalamus are abundant. They consist of fibres both to and from the cortex of the different lobes of the hemisphere, the greater part arising in the thalamus and terminating in the cortex. These fibres collect in the internal and external medullary laminae and the stratum zonale; most of them enter the internal capsule and thence radiate to the different parts of the cortex. They form the so-called peduncles of the thalamus, which have been distinguished both by the Flechsig method of investigation and by the method of degeneration. The anterior or frontal peduncle passes from the lateral and anterior part of the thalamus through the frontal portion of the internal capsule, and radiates to the cortex of the frontal lobe. The middle or parietal peduncle passes from the lateral surface of the thalamus through the intermediate part of the internal capsule, and upwards to the cortex of the parietal lobe. The posterior or occipital peduncle passes chiefly from the pulvinar, through the occipital portion of the internal capsule, and radiates backwards to the occipital lobe by way of the occipito-thalamic (optic) radiation (fig. 643). The inferior peduncle passes from the inner and under surface of the thalamus (from the anterior part chiefly), turns outwards to course beneath the lenticular nucleus, and radiates to the cortex of the temporal lobe and insula. Many of the fibres of this peduncle course in the ansa lenticularis (fig. 641). Some turn upwards in the external capsule to reach the cortex above the insula. The hypothalamic nucleus, or body of Luys, is the principal nucleus of termi- nation of the medial lemniscus, the great sensory cerebro-spinal pathway. It con- tains the cell-bodies of the neurones of the third order in this pathway, those of the first order being situated in the spinal ganglia, and those of the second order in the nuclei of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus. It is a biconvex mass of grey substance situated below the lateral and anterior nuclei of the thalamus, and between these and the basis of the cerebral peduncle, or rather the substantia nigra, which is spread upon the dorsal surface of the peduncle, and which, though greatly diminished, extends into the hypothalamic region. The hypothalamic nucleus pre- sents a brownish-pink colour in fresh material, due to pigment in its cells and to its abundant capillary supply. It is enclosed by a thin capsule of white substance, some of the fibres of which seem to decussate with those of the opposite side in the floor of the third ventricle, above and just behind the region of the corpora mammil- laria. By far the greater part of the fibres arising from the nucleus join the internal capsule, and through it ascend to radiate to the cortex of the pre- and post-central gyri, the sensory-motor or somsesthetic area of the hemisphere. All the fibres connecting the cerebral cortex with both the thalamus and the hypo- thalamic nucleus belong to the so-called projection fibres of the cerebral hemisphere. Worthy of note here are two other structures which, like the thalamus, belong to the thalamencephalic portion of the diencephalon, though mention of them and their connections has been deferred because of the fact that they are encountered in sections for the internal structure of the telencephalon, since, as usually studied, such sections are made to involve both the telencephalon and the diencephalon. These structures are the habenular nucleus and the fasciculus retroflexus of Meynert. The habenular nucleus, a part of the' epithalamus, is a small group of nerve cells situated in the substance just below and lateral to the epiphysis. A small bundle of fibres crossing the mid-line under the epiphysis in the dorsal aspect of the posterior cerebral commissure has been called the commissura habenularum, frcm the fact that it apparently connects the habenular nuclei of the two sides. The fasciculus retroflexus (Meynerti) is a relatively strong bundle of medul- lated fibres which runs ventralwards and slightly caudalwards from the habenular nucleus towards the inferior portion of the interpeduncular fossa. It has been shown that many, at least, of the fibres of this bundle arise from the cells of the habenular nucleus. In its slightly caudad course, the bundle passes obliquely through the red nucleus, entering the mesial superior aspect and making its exit from the ventro-mesial side of the inferior extremity of this nucleus. In the animals in which it has been studied, the bundle seems to terminate in the interpeduncular ganglion, a group of nerve cells lying in the floor of the interpeduncular fossa at the level of the inferior quadrigemina. In man, the interpeduncular ganglion is seemingly absent as such, and the bundle seems to disappear in the posterior per-