SUMMARY OF CONDUCTION PATHS 871 III. Cerebral Path for the Cranial Nerves Exclusive of Those of Special Sense A. Ascending system oj neurones. 1. Ganglia of origin of sensory components of vagus, glossopharyngeus, pars intermedia of facial, and trigeminus. . (a) Peripheral arborisations and afferent peripheral branches of T-fibres of same. (6) Central branches of T-fibres of same. 2. Nuclei of termination of central branches (bifurcated and unbifurcated) in medulla oblongata. (a) Reticular formation and medial lemniscus of same and (chiefly) the opposite side. i 3. Hypothalamic nucleus and lateral nucleus of thalamus. (a) Internal capsule, anterior part of occipital portion. (b) Corona radiata, fronto-parietal part. (c) Somaesthetic area of cortex cerebri. B. Descending system of neurones. 1. Pyramidal cells of somaesthetic area. (a) Corona radiata, fronto-parietal. (b) Internal capsule, genu chiefly. (c) Basis of cerebral peduncle and peduncle. (d) Accessory lemniscus of von Becnterew. 2. Nuclei of origin of motor cranial nerves and motor components of mixed cranial nerves, and thence by way of these nerves to the respective muscles supplied. IV. The Short ' Reflex ' Paths of the Cranial Nerves These consist of the central branches of their afferent or sensory fibres, terminating in the nuclei of origin of both their own motor components and in the nuclei of origin of other motor nerves. Fibres to the more distant nuclei pass to them by way of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. Instead of terminating in the motor nuclei directly, the sensory fibres are frequently interrupted by a third or intermediate neurone interposed in the chain. The vagus and glosso-pharyngeus are connected by way of the solitary fasciculus and its nucleus with the structures below their level of entrance, probably even with the ventral horn cells of the upper segments of the cervical cord, and through these with the muscles of respiration. V. Conduction Paths Involving the Cerebellum A. Ascending cerebellar pathways. 1. Spinal ganglia. (a) Dorsal roots of spinal nerves. (b) Collaterals and descending branches of bifurcation of dorsal root fibres in spinal cord. 2x. Dorsal nucleus (Clarke's column). (a) Cerebello-spinal fasciculus (direct cerebellar tract). (b) Restiform body (inferior cerebellar peduncle)— (c) Joined in medulla by external arcuate fibres (crossed and uncrossed fibres arising in nuclei of funiculus gracilis and cuneatus); (d) Joined in medulla by fibres arising in nuclei of termination of afferent vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, vestibular, and trigeminal nerves; (e) Joined by fibres both to and from (ascending and descending) the inferior olivary nucleus of the same and opposite sides (cerebello-olivary fibres). 2y. Nerve-cells in base of ventral horn of same and opposite side. (a) Antero-lateral cerebello-spinal fasciculus (Gowers' tract), ascending through spinal cord and reticular formation of medulla and pons. (6) Anterior medullary velum and brachium conjunctivum to cerebellar cortex (vermis) (fig. 606). 3. Cerebellar cortex (vermis), dentate nucleus, nucleus fastigii, nucleus emboliformis, and nucleus globosus. (a) White substance (corpus medullare) of cerebellum, associating various regions of its cortex and its nuclei with each other. (b) Brachium conjunctivum (superior cerebellar peduncle) arising chiefly from dentate nucleus and Cortex vermis. (c) Decussation of brachium conjunctivum. 4. Red nucleus and ventral portion of lateral nucleus of thalamus. Some fibres of the brachium conjunctivum terminate in the red nucleus; many merely give off collaterals to it in passing to their termination in the thalamus. Most of the ascending fibres arising in the red nucleus also terminate in the ventral part of the thalamus. (a) Internal capsufeJ, middle third, and fronto-parietal part of corona radiata. (b) Somaesthetic area of cerebral cortex and probably cortex of frontal lobe anterior to it. (c) Inferior peduncle of thalamus to cortex of temporal lobe. B. Descending cerebro-cerebellar paths. 1. Pyramidal cells of soma?sthetic area send fibres through corona radiata, internal capsule, and cerebral peduncle to nuclei of pons and arcuate nucleus of same and opposite side.