836 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM tally backwards and upwards to terminate in the supra-marginal gyrus of the parietal lobe. (2) The anterior ascending ramus passes upwards for about 10 mm., sub- dividing the inferior gyrus of the frontal lobe. (3) The anterior horizontal ramus passes forwards from the stem of the fissure about 10 mm., and likewise into the inferior frontal gyrus, but parallel with the superciliary border. These branches, together with certain smaller collateral twigs, divide the over- lapping or opercular portions of the adjacent pallium into (a) the temporal operculum, which lies below the posterior ramus; (b) the fronto-parietal operculum, or operculum proper, which lies above and behind the anterior ascending ramus; (c) the frontal operculum, between the latter and the anterior horizontal ramus; (d) and the orbital operculum, below the anterior horizontal ramus. Collectively the opercula are known as the opercula of the insula. The central lobe or insula.—The insula or island of Reil is a triangular area of the Fig. 623.—The Insula with its Gyri and Sulci. SUPERIOR TEMPORAL GYRUS cerebral cortex lying in the floor of the lateral fissure, and concealed by the opercula. Of these, the temporal operculum overlaps the lobe to a greater extent than either the frontal or parietal. More than half of it may, therefore, be exposed by gently press- ing away the temporal lobe. The central lobe or island corresponds to the broad floor of the Sylvian fossa of the embryonic brain. In the developed condition its surface is convex iateralwards and is itself folded into gyri. The apex of the triangle appears upon the basal surface of the hemisphere, and is the only portion which may be seen without disturbing the specimen. It appears as the end of a small gyrus under the temporal pole, and in close relation with the anterior perforated substance and the vallecula Sylvii, and is known as the limen of the insula. In the folding process by which the opercula accomplish the overlapping and enclosing of the island, there results a deep sulcus which surrounds its entire area except at the limen insulse. This is known as the circular sulcus, or limiting sulcus of Reil. The gyri (and sulci) of the island radiate from the apex of the triangle. The central sulcus of the island is the deepest. It runs from below backwards and upwards,