1034 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE muscles, and is in greatest amount immediately behind the eyeball; it also exists between the muscles and the orbital walls in the anterior half of the cavity. Six muscles, viz., the four recti, the superior oblique, and the levator palpebrse supe- rioris, arise at the apex of the orbit, and diverge as they pass forwards. The recti muscles—superior, inferior, external, and internal—run each near the correspond- ing orbital wall, but the superior is overlapped in part by the levator palpebral The superior oblique lies about midway between the superior and internal recti. A seventh muscle, the inferior oblique, has a short course entirely in the anterior part of the orbit, coming from its inner wall and passing beneath the globe between the termination of the inferior rectus and the orbital floor. The optic nerve with its sheaths passes from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball, surrounded by the orbital fat, and more immediately by a loose connective tissue. Among the contents of the cavity are also to be enumerated many vessels and nerves and fibrous tissue septa, while its walls are clothed by periosteum (periorbita). The muscles of the orbit are seven in number, of which six are ocular, i. e., are inserted into the eyeball and rotate it in different directions. These ocular muscles are arranged in opponent pairs, viz., superior and inferior recti, superior and inferior obliques, external and internal recti. With the exception of the short inferior oblique, they all arise from the back of the orbit along with the seventh orbital muscle, the levator palpebrae superioris. All these long muscles take their origin from the periosteum in the vicinity of the optic foramen. The four recti muscles arise from a fibrous ring, the annulus tendineus communis (ligament of Zinn), which arches close over the upper and inner edge of the foramen, and extends down and out so as to embrace part of the opening of the superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure. Their origins may be said at first to form a short, common, tendinous tube, from which the individual muscles soon separate, taking the positions indicated by their respective names. The external rectus has two origins from bone, one on either side of the superior orbital fissure. But in the fresh state the fissure is here bridged across by fibrous tissue, from which this rectus also springs, so that its origin is in reality continuous. The part of this fibrous ring nearest the foramen (corresponding to the origins of the superior and internal recti) is closely connected with the outer sheath of the optic nerve. The remaining two long mus- cles arise just outside the upper and inner part of the above-mentioned ring, and are often partially united; the levator palpebrse tendon is in close relation to the origin of the superior rectus, while the superior oblique arises from the periosteum