CAVITY OF THE ORBIT 1039 orbital margin—whilst the latter turns backwards, covering the hinder third of the globe. The anterior lamina is a well-marked membrane everywhere, but in certain situations it presents special bands of thickening, corresponding to the direct con- tinuation forwards of the sheath of each rectus muscle. Above and below, this lamina spreads out in the form of two large membranes, which are finally applied to the deep surface of the palpebral fascia; the lower membrane constitutes what has been described as 'the suspensory ligament of the eyeball.' The upper mem- brane requires a fuller description, as its distribution is modified by the presence of the levator palpebrae muscle. The upper part of the sheath of the superior rectus (along with the adjoining membrane on each side of it) passes to the deep surface of the levator, to which it closely adheres, and completely ensheaths this tendon by extending round its borders to its upper surface. The lower part of this levator sheath is applied to the Fig. 738.—Horizontal Section Through Left Orbit, viewed from above. (After von Gerlach. To show check ligaments, etc.) inferior surface of the deeper of the two divisions of the levator muscle, superior tarsal muscle of Midler), and is attached to the upper border of the tarsus of the upper lid, reaching laterally to the outer and inner angles of the orbit. The upper part of the sheath of the superior tarsal muscle reaches to the middle of the pal- pebral fascia, and is mainly continued forwards between the muscle and the fascia to the anterior surface of the tarsus. The lower membrane (suspensory ligament of the eyeball), joined by the sheath of the inferior rectus, reaches forwards to the attached (hinder) border of the tarsus of the lower lid, where it is mainly attached, while a part of it extends to the lower palpebral fascia. To understand the special bands of the anterior lamina mentioned above, we must follow the sheath of each rectus muscle forwards, when we find that, while it is rather loosely applied to the muscular belly in its posterior two-thirds, it then sud- denly becomes thicker, and is firmly attached to the muscle for some distance before finally leaving it, and is thereafter often accompanied by some muscle-fibres. The