1042 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE being therefore slightly convex backwards. The nerve-trunk here quickly becomes reduced to one-half its former diameter, the fibres losing their medullary sheath and being continued henceforward as mere axis-cylinders. Apart from the conse- quent loss of bulk, this histological change may be readily recognised macroscopi- cally in a longitudinal section of the nerve, its aspect here changing from opaque white to semi-translucent grey. The part of the nerve within the lamina cribrosa has already been seen in our ophthalmoscopic examination of the living eye. The optic nerve is mainly nourished by fine vessels derived from those of the pial sheath, which run into the substance of the nerve in the processes above men- tioned. In front of the entrance of the central retinal artery this vessel aids to some extent in the blood-supply of the axial part of the nerve. The Blood-vessels and Nerves of the Orbit As these structures will be more particularly described in other sections of this work, a very short general account will suffice here. Arteries.—The main blood-supply is afforded by the ophthalmic artery, a branch of the internal carotid, which gains the orbit through the optic canal, where it lies beneath and to the temporal side of the nerve. On entering the orbit it ascends, and passes obliquely over the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit; in this early part of its course it gives off most of its branches, which vary much in their manner of origin and also in their course. The arteries of the orbit are Fig. 741.—The Blood-vessels of the Left Orbit, viewed from above. Supraorbital artery LACHRYMAL GLAND Superior rectus EYEBALL External rectus Lachrymal artery Superior rectus, cut Inferior ophthalmic vein Superior ophthalmic vein OPTIC NEB VE Common ophthalmic vein Commencement of superior ophthalmic vein Reflected tendon of superior oblique Ophthalmic artery |L Anterior ethmoidal artery • Posterior ethmoidal artery Ciliary arteries Levator palpebrae, cut Ligament of Zinn Ophthalmic artery OPTIC COMMISSURE ' Internal carotid artery remarkable for their tortuous course, for. their delicate walls, and for their loose attachment to the surrounding tissues. The ophthalmic artery gives off special branches in the orbit to the lachrymal gland, the muscles, the retina (through the optic nerve), and the eyeball, as well as to the meninges, the ethmoidal cells, and the nasal mucous membrane. Twigs from all the different branches go to supply the fat, fasciae, and ordinary nerves of the orbit. Branches which leave the orbit ante- riorly ramify on the forehead and nose, and also go to the supply of the eyelids and the tear-passages. The ophthalmic artery has many anastomoses with branches of the external carotid. The contents of the orbit are also supplied in part by the infraorbital artery, a branch of the internal maxillary; in particular this artery