THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 890 bones, with the angular veins. Two pass through the parietal foramina and establish communications with the occipital veins, and a fourth, which is very inconstant, pierces the occipital protuberance and joins the tributaries of the occipital veins. Connecting each lateral sinus with the extracranial veins there are, as a rule, two emissary veins:— one, the mastoid emissary vein, which passes through the mastoid foramen to the occipital or posterior auricular vein; and the other, the post-condyloid vein, which traverses the condyloid (posterior condyloid) foramen and joins the suboccipital plexus. The cavernous sinus is in communication anteriorly with the superior ophthalmic vein, and through the latter with the angular vein; it is connected with the pterygoid plexus by emissary veins which pass either through the fora- men ovale or the foramen Vesalii, and with the pharyngeal plexus by small venous channels which accompany the internal carotid artery through the carotid canal. Fig 662.—Showing Blood-vessels of Cranial Dura Mater and Cranial Nerves in the Base of the Skull. (On the left side the dura mater has been removed in the middle fossa.) Meningeal branch of anterior ethmoidal artery Meningeal branch of pos terior ethmoidal artery Middle meningeal artery OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF TRIGEMINUS THIRD NERVE Cavernous sinus TROCHLEAR NERVE AUDITORY A N/J FACIAL NERVES Superior petrosal sinus Inferior petrosal sinus Petrosquamous sinus SPINA L A CCES- SORY NERVE Sigmoid sinus Posterior meningeal branch of vertebral artery Left marginal sinus Left lateral sinus Superior sagittal sinus Circular sinus Carotid artery ABDUCENS Basilar artery Basilar plexus of veins Auditory artery Vertebral artery G 1.0 SSO-I'HA RYNGEAL AND VAGUS NERVES Anterior spinal artery HYPOGLOSSAL NER VE SPINAL ACCES- SORY NERVE Rigid marginal sinus Occipital sinus Right transverse sinus The Venous Lacunae or spaces are small clefts lined by endothelium which com- municate with the meningeal veins and with blood sinuses. They also have com- munications with the emissary veins and the diploic veins. They lie between the outer and inner layers of the dura mater, the majority of them at the sides of the superior sagittal sinus, but others are found in the tentorium associated with the transverse sinuses and the straight sinus. Vessels.—The blood supply of the cranial dura mater is derived from the meningeal arteries, which ramify in its outer layer. The more important of these arteries have already been described in the account of the vascular system, and it is only necessary here to recall the fact that the greater part of the dura mater above the tentorium cerebelli is supplied by branches of the middle meningeal arteries. These are reinforced—(1) at the vertex by branches of the occipital arteries which enter through the parietal foramina; (2) in the middle fossa by the small meningeal arteries and by meningeal branches of the internal carotid, lachrymal, and ascending pharyngeal arteries; and (3) in the anterior fossa by meningeal branches of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries.