THE NOSE 1069 situated inferior to the septal cartilage and forming the tip of the nose and the ventral part of the mobile septum. The lateral crus joins the medial crus at the apex of the nose; it is somewhat oval in shape, and curves dorsally in the superior and ventral portion of the ala. It is connected posteriorly'to the nasal margin of the maxilla by a dense mass of fibrous and fatty tissue, and helps to maintain the contour of this part of the nose. A variable number of small cartilages, lesser alar (sesamoid) cartilages, are found in this fibrous tissue of the ala, and the interval between each greater alar and lateral cartilage is more or less completely filled by one or more small plates, sesamoid cartilages (fig. 764). The septal cartilage (fig. 767) fits into the triangular interval of the bony septum. Its ventro-superior border is attached to the dorsal border of the internasal suture. Inferior to the nasal bone it presents a shallow groove which gradually narrows towards the tip of the nose, and whose borders are continuous superiorly with the lateral nasal cartilages, but are separated from their inferior two-thirds by a narrow slit. The most inferior part of this border of the septal cartilage is placed between the greater alar cartilages. The ventro-mferior border extends dorsally from the rounded ventral angle to the anterior nasal spine. Inferiorly it is attached to the medial crus of the greater alar cartilage and to the mobile nasal septum. The dorso-superior border is attached to the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and the dorso-inferior border joins the vomer and the ventral part of the nasal crest of the maxilla, the cartilage broadening out to obtain a wide though lax attachment to the nasal spine. The shape of the septal cartilage varies with the extent of the ossification of the bony septum. Even in the adult a strip of cartilage may extend for a varying distance dorso-superiorly between the vomer and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, sometimes reaching the body of the sphenoid and being known as the sphenoidal process of the septal cartilage. The vomero-nasal cartilage is a narrow strip of cartilage firmlv attached to each side of the septal cartilage, where this joins the ventral portion of the vomer. The nasal septum is almost always straight in children and aboriginal skulls; but m a large proportion of adults it is deflected to one side or the other.