90 senn’s culinaky encyclopedia TailleP la Soupe,A culinary expression. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup tureen are called tailler. “ Tremper la soupe” is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Taillevent- Name of a clever artist in cookery who superintended the kitchens of Charles VII of France from 1430 to 1461. Inventor of a sweet soup, called “ potage dore,” the recipe of which is anything but recommendable for the present time. Talleyrand, Several high-class dishes are styled thus. The name comes from an old French ducal family. Talmouses,/’. A kind of French pastry, sweet or savoury, made in the shape of parsons’ caps. Tamarind. The name of a tropical tree and its fruit, which is used for condiments, sauces, etc. Tamis, /. Tammy, e. Woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tansy, e. A herb with strong aromatic flavour, sometimes used for flavourings in puddings. Tapioca. The substance obtained from the roots of the cassava (manioc plant), a native of the tropical parts of Asia, America and Africa. Brazil exports the most to this country. Tapioca is considered to be one of the most easy digestive farinaceous foods, and is therefore recommended for invalids and children. Tarragron, r. Estragon, /. Aromatic plant used for flavouring ; also for flavouring vinegar. Tart. From the Latin torta, a baked ring of twisted dough, which was laid round and eaten with cooked fruit. The name now includes a great number of cakes of a complicated kind. Tartare,/. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, etc., served with fried fish or cold meats ; also a salad dressing. Tartaric Acid. This is an acid which exists in a great many kinds of fruit, though it is chiefly olitained and extracted from the grape root. It is used for similar purposes as citric acid, and has the same effect on sugar. Teal, Sarcelle or Sercelle,/. Water-fowl. Tench, Tanche, /. A fresli-water fish, allied to the carp. Seasonable December to February.