43 senn’s culinary encyclopaedia Praises, /. Strawberries, e. Framboises, /. Raspberries, e. Fran^aise (a la), f. French style. Fran^aise (a la). This is, generally speaking, applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as to those of the most elaborate finish. With the exception of a few grills and soups, the term cannot be taken as signifying anything in particular, because the prepara- tion as well as the garnish varies in almost every case. French Surnames to Dishes.—The French Cuisine has a considerable number of thoroughly descriptive and well-understood surnames given to dishes, all of which come under the title of “ a la Fran9aise ” ; many of these are named after some peculiarities favoured in the provinces of France. Surnames derived from French towns, from certain countries, and from past and present patrons of the culinary art under whose influence many dishes have been invented and in some cases actually prepared, are also very numerous, and, with few exceptions, most significant and expressive. There are many dishes which derive their names merely from sauces with which they are served or dressed, and have no reference to the mode of preparation. Thus dishes styled a la Bechamel, a la Bordelaise,a la Tomato, a I’Espagnole, etc., are, as a rule, names merely derived from these sauces. The old school strictly adheres to these names ; they are universally adopted by all good cooks and recognised by connoisseurs and gourmets alike. It must however be stated that many of these names are either abused or misused by some cooks, many of them having their own formula of preparation, which are presented under names that differ considerably as regards the external, and sometimes internal, features from the original methods for which these names were intended as symbols of typical preparations. Dishes thus altered are therefore hard to recognise if served under a well-known name, but in a different style ; they lose all the culinary charm or its significance ; they puzzle and fog the diner who is acquainted with the gas-'