5 senn’s culinaey encyclopedia sirloin of beef. The name is supposed to be derived from a City Company’s dinner, at which a City Alderman showed a special liking for this cut. Alenois, cresson d’, Small garden cress. Ale Berry. A hot drink, made with ^ pint ale, 1 oz. oatmeal groats, ground ginger and sugar to taste, and a little water. Boiled, strained and served with toasted bread. Ale Posset. A hot drink, prepared with ^ pint milk, a yolk of egg, ^ oz. butter, ^ pint ale. The milk is poured hot over a slice of toast, the egg and butter are then added and allowed to bind. The ale is added boiling, and sugar according to taste. Aliment, /’. Food ; nourishment; meat. Alisander, e. Sometimes called Alexander. “ Persie de macedoine,” /. Name of a plant belonging to the parsley and celery order. As a culinary plant it is almost forgotten, but may be found in its wild state near the sea coast of Great Britain. Before celery was known this plant was used as a salad ingredient. Allemande (a 1’). German style. A TAllemande, As a surname to dishes is applied in many cases where the origin of the preparations are in a manner peculiar to Germany. Thus a dish garnished with sauerkraut and pork (pickled and boiled), its style is termed a TAllemande. Again, a dish garnished with potato quenelles or smoked sausages may be defined in the same manner. Allemande, /. A white reduced veloute sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with flour, cream, yolk of egg, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Allerei, //. Name of a German dish, consisting of stewed early spring vegetables. A kind of macedoine of vegetables, principally served at Leipzig. Alliance (a la ste.), /. Name of a garnish for entrees, consisting of braised carrots, artichoke bottoms, and small onions. Allspice, <?. Piment, epice, /’. Also called Jamaica pepper or pimento. The ground ripe and dried berries of a pretty evergreen tree of the myrtle species, which grows plentifully in Jamaica. It is called allspice because its flavour and smell resemble very closely