SENN’s CULINAKY ENCYCLOPiEDIA 9 Appetite denotes a desire to eat, and is announced in the stomach by a little weakness, combined at times with a little pain, and a slight sensation of lassitude. Meanwhile the mind is occupied with objects bearing upon its wants, whilst memory recalls such things as please the taste, or, in other words, imagination fancies it sees those things for which one longs; the stomach becomes sensitive, the mouth becomes moistened, and all the digestive powers become ready for action. This is the feeling of one that is hungry, and to have an appetite one must be hungry. Apple, e. Pomme, f. Apfel, g. The original apple of this country is the crab, which is astringent and bitter. There are about three hundred kinds of apple now cultivated. Apple Fool, A puree of apples (apple pulp), flavoured with cinnamon, clove, and sugar, mixed with new milk or cream, served as cream liquid or half frozen in glass dishes or goblets. Apple Hedg’ehog’. Name of a dish of stewed apples (whole), the centres of which are filled with jam, arranged in the form of a hedgehog, decorated with shreds of almonds, covered with icing sugar, and browned in the oven. Apple Mering’ue. This is similar to apple snow, but is baked in a slow oven after being dressed on the dish. Apple Pupton. A kind of apple pudding made with apple pulp, breadcrumbs, butter, eggs, and sugar, baked in a plain mould, and served with a fruit syrup (hot). Apple Snow. Name of a sweet dish composed of apple pulp or puree, mixed with sugar, etc. This is mingled into some stiffly-whipped and sweetened white of egg. The mixture is piled high in a glass dish, and de- corated with fruit jelly. Apple Tansy. This is a kind of apple fritter. The batter is made of cream and eggs, and poured over partially-stewed apples; they are fried in butter, and served very hot. Apricot, e. Abricot, /. Aprikose, g. First introduced in England about 1562. A delicious fruit, most favoured as dessert fruit; also largely used for tarts, jam, marmalade, and jelly.