29 senn’s culinary encyclopaedia little known in this country. It is u favourite vege- table in the United States, Germany and Switzerland. Chow-chow. Name of a kind of pickle consisting of a comhination of various vegetables, such as cauliflower buds, button onions, gherkins, French beans, and tiny carrots. These are preserved in a kind of mustard sauce, seasoned with strongly-flavoured aromatic spices. Chowder, r. A dish of American origin. It consists of boiled pickled pork cut in slices, fried onions, slices of turbot or other fish, and mashed potatoes, all placed alternately in a stewpan, seasoned with spices and herbs, claret and ketchup, and simmered. Chrysanthemum. This is one of the latest plants added to the dietary list. Its taste is somewhat similar to that of cauliflower, only much more delicate. If shredded finely and mixed with a cream sauce it makes a most delicious salad. Chub, e. Chevanne, /. A sweet-water fish, resembling the carp. Very little used for cooking purposes, it being exceedingly bony. Ciboulette, /. Small green onions, chives. Cider, e. Cidre, /. The juice of apples fermented and used as a drink, principally in the country. Cinnamon, e. Cannelle, /. The inner bark of a species of laurel. This shrub grows wild at Java and Ceylon, but is cultivated in the East and West Indies. Citric Acid. This acid is used in small quantities for boiled sugar goods ; it imparts body and prevents the sugar from getting moist. It is obtained from the lemon (citrus limonum), but is also obtained from other acid fruits, such as sour cherries, Seville oranges, raspberries, currants, etc. To be obtained in a white powder from chemists, etc. Citron, /'. Lemon, e. The fruit of the lemon tree (cit- ronier,/.), or citrus limonum ; a native of the North- West Indian Provinces. This fruit has been introduced by the Arabs into Spain, whence it was spread over Europe, and is now cultivated in almost all the tropical and subtropical countries. An important culinary condiment.