SENN S CULINARY ENCYCLOPEDIA 4G Gargrotier. Keeper of a common cookshop ; a bad cook. Garlic, Ail, /, A root-plant with a pungent taste. Like onions, chives and shallots, it possesses medicinal virtues, being cooling to the system, increasing saliva and gastric juices, stunulating, and digestive. First imported from Sicily. Garnishing’. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Garum. A Latin word, used for a sauce made of pickled fish, which was celebrated amongst the Romans. Gasterea. Goddess of Gastronomy, presiding over every- thing appertaining to the preservation of life. Gastronome. A caterer ; hotel or restaurant keeper. Gastronomy, C. Gastronomie, /. The art of good living. Strictly speaking, meaning the science of life, through which we discover what food, under various circum- stances, is best suited, and it teaches us the effect it bears upon man individually or a nation.—“ The Autocrat of the Dinner Table.” Gateau, /. A round flat cake, generally decorated. Essentially a cake made of well-beaten butter dough. Gaufre, ./"• A light biscuit; wafer; baked or fried in specially-constructed Gaufre moulds. These consist of two opposed plates, and are worked by handles. Gelatine. A manufactured article, used for giving solidity to liquids. (See also Isinglass.) Gelee,/. Jelly, e. Inspissated juice of fruit or meat. Gelinotte,Hazel-hen ; heath-cock. Genevoise (a la). Geneva style. Genievre,/. Juniper-berry. A blue-black berry, possessing a peculiar aromatic flavour, used as a flavouring condiment in mirepoix, marinades, etc. ; also used in syrups and liqueurs. Genoise, /. Genoese style. Also the name of a kind of sponge cake ; a brown fish sauce. German style, r. A rAllemande, /. Ghee. An Indian word for clarified butter. Gherkin, r. Cornichon, or Petit concombre, /. Term mostly used for pickled cucumbers. Gibier, /. Game, (\ Animals taken in the chase. Giblets, r. Abatis, /. The trimmings of poultry (neck, pinions, liver, heart, etc.). Those from geese.