DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 390 continua- tion below, and above. Dissection. Splenitis lias two x>arts : one to the neck; the other to the head; relations. Use of splenitis capitis, splenitis colli. Fourth layer of muscles. Dissection of com- plexus. Define off- sets from the erector spinse. the liganientmn nuchas as high as the third cervical The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their muscles. It is continuous below with the tendon of the serratus posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia lumborum; but above, it passes beneath the upper serratus, and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck. The strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. * Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, and the vertebral aponeurosis taken away; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. In turning outwards the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves, which perforate the external intercostal muscle accompanied by small arteries, may be found entering its slips. The splenius muscle (fig. 120) is flat and elongated. Single at its origin, it is divided above into two parts, one passing to the head— splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from vertebra, insertion. The splenius colli (c) is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- terior transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae with, but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the outer third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior; and the insertion into the skidl is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the upjier border of the splenius capitis. Action, The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head, directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebrae ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process- of the atlas. * Fourth Layer op Muscles. In this layer are included the erector spinse, with its divisions and accessory muscles to the necky and the complexus. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 121). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the neck, the splenius must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. And while the erector spinas is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations from it to the cervical vertebras and the head are to be denned by the dissector of the neck:—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the outer piece of the erector (ilio-costalis), and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the inner piece of the erector (longis-