DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. :i4S Aortic open ins: size and position ; valve. Sinuses of Valsalva. Use. Position of a pertures of arteries, and of auricles. Structure of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bauds form rings around auri- culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. While the blood is entering the cavity, the cusps of the valve are separated ; and when the ventricle Contracts, they meel to eh.se the passage into the Left atiricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is close to the septum. This aperture is round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary artery, measuring slightly less than an inch in diameter. It is situate behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. In its interior is a valve of three semilunar or sigmoid flaps, which are thicker and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pul- monary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, the corpus Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pulmonary artery, though in a greater degree, and forms a hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed in two of these sinuses. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery, these meet in the middle to prevent the blood passing hack into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,— one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together; but of the two, the pulmonary artery is anterior and moie to the left, as well as somewhat higher. The aperture of communication with each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is nearest of all to the back of the heart. Structure. The heart is composed chiefly of muscular fibres, together with certain fibrous lings and a fibro-cartilage. The structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the muscular substance has been hardened, and the connective tissue destroyed by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being sepa- rated. The description of the structure of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with those openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves; and the band surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is blended in front with the aortic ring. The arterial rings surround the aortic and pulmonary orifices ; and the margin of each towards the artery forms three notches with intervening projections. The notches are occupied by thinner parts of the arterial wall bounding the sinuses of Valsalva ; and to the concave edges the sigmoid flaps of the valve are attached.