207 INSULA AND FRONTAL LOBE. margins of the Sylvian fissure be drawn asunder, it will be seen to have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards towards the anterior perforated space, and to be bounded by three furrows, the sulci of Reil (ar, er, and pr), the hinder of which is continuous with the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. Fig. 61.* The central lobe is placed opposite the corpus stria- tum in the interior of the hemisphere. To the portions of the frontal and parietal lobes which are placed between the ascending and posterior branches of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 60, between s" and s"), and cover the upper part of the central lobe, the name operculum of the insula is given (fig. 61). Sulci and convolu- tions OF THE FRONTAL lobe. On the outer surface of the frontal lobe there are four convolutions, separated by three sulci. The prmcentral sulcus (fig. 60, pr c) is placed in front of, and nearly parallel to, the lower half of the furrow of Rolando. From it the inferior frontal sulcus (if) runs forwards and downwards, towards the orbital surface of the lobe. Above this, the superior frontal sulcus (sf), which is often inter- rupted once or twice by cross gyri, takes a similar course. The ascending frontal convolution (af) is simple, and forms the hindmost part of the frontal lobe, extending from the upper margin of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, along the front of the fur- row of Rolando. From its fore part the three longitudinal convolu- tions of this lobe take their origin. The superior frontal convolution (sf) is longer and broader than the others, and is commonly much subdivided into secondary gyri. It lies between the margin of the hemisphere and the upper frontal sulcus. surrounded by three sulci of Reil. Operculum of the insula. Frontal sulci are one transverse, and two longi- tudinal. Frontal con- volutions : transverse : supenoi. * Orbital lobule and central lobe. orb. Orbital sulcus. ol. Olfactory sulcus. ar. Anterior, er. External, and pr. Posterior sulci of Reil, the last opened by the removal of the temporo-sjphenoidal lobe. io. Internal, ao. Anterior, and po. Posterior orbital convolutions, c. Central lobe or island of Reil. if, ai<", and ai>. Lower parts of the inferior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascsnding parietal gyri, constituting the operculum, aps. An- terior perforated space.