DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 38 Malar brandies to eyelids. Infraorbital branches between eye and mouth. Lower division of the nerve has also three sets of branches. Buccal to comer of mouth. Supra- maxillary between mouth and chin. Infra- maxillary to neck. orbital nerve (6). The attrahens and attollens aureni muscles are supplied from this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (10). The malar branches are directed to the outer side of the orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. Communications take place in the eyelids with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve, and over the malar bone with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve (9). The infraorbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—infraorbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary (u). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (7) and infratrochlear (8) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The cervicofacial is smaller than the upper trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, while in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the buccal branch (I2) of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supramaxillary brandies course forwards over the lower jaw to the middle line, and supply the muscles of the lower lip and chin. Beneath the depressor ariguli oris these branches of the facial join the offsets of the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve (13). The inframaxillary branch lies below the jaw, and is dis- tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of this nerve will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59). Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be dissected on the side on which the muscles of the face have been learnt. Position of Position. In the examination of this cavity the head is to be the head. placed in the game position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull.