DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. of the scalp and a small quantity of fat, which is traversed by numerous short fibrous bands uniting it closely to the skin. Its deep surface is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that the scalp moves freely over the skull. By making a transverse incision through the aponeurosis above the ear and separating it from the pericranium towards the side of the head, it will be seen to be joined by a thin membrane, which springs from the skull above the temporal line, and descends, closely united to the deep surface of the attollens aurem muscle, over the temporal fascia to be attached to the pinna of the ear. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it raises the eyebrow, smootliing the skin at the root of the nose, and wrinkling transversely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move back the scalp ; and the bellies acting in succession can carry the hairy scalp forwards and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal Aressels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the 2ygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with an accompanying artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown clown to the zygomatic arch,, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difference in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The temporal muscle is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, which is inserted into the margins and inner surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw (p. 82). On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion