40 DISSECTION OP THE OEBIT. several cra- nial nerves; their distri bution; and some vessels. Lachrymal gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open behind upper eyelid. T?ourtll nerve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branches. Frontal divides into supraorbital and supra- trochlear. Palpebral filaments. Su ratroch- lear branch. Lachrymal nerve The nerves in the cavity are numerous, viz., the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the small temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the sympathetic ; their general distribution is as follows :— The second nerve enters the eyeball; the third supplies all the muscles of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior oblique ; and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sym- pathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The lachrymal gland (fig. 10, p) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, something like a small almond, and measures about three-quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which is directed transversely. From its fore part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. The gland has from eight to twelve very fine ducts, which open on the surface of the conjunctiva in a curved line above the outer part of the upper eyelid, and a little in front of the fornix. The fourth nerve (fig. 10,') is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. In the cavity, it is directed inwards above the levator palpebral to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces on the orbital surface. The ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve (fig. 10), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches; the first passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. The frontal nerve (fig. 10, 2) is close to the outer side of the fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the orbit; and after giving off from its inner side the supratrochlear branch (4), it leaves the cavity by the supraorbital notch. Taking the name supraorbital, it ascends on the forehead, where it is distributed. This nerve frequently divides into its two main branches (p. 6) while still within the orbit. While in the notch the supraorbital nerve gives one or two -palpe- bral filaments to the upper lid. The supratrochlear nerve (') passes inwards above the pulley of the upper oblique muscle, and leaves the orbit to end in the eyelid and forehead (p. 7). Before the nerve turns round the margin of the frontal bone, it sends downwards a twig of communication to the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The lachrymal nerve (fig. 10, 3) after entering the orbit in a