359 CARDIAC NERVES. The deep cardiac plexus is situate between the trachea and the arch Deep cardiac of the aorta, and consists of right and left halves, which are joined p ex by cross branches. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic and vagus, with the exception of two branches of the left side ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The right part of the plexus is placed above the right branch of Right part, the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz., ow onne the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck, the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus in both the neck and chest, and the cardiac offsets of the recurrent branch. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to branches to the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind "fr^p,°e™;s. the right branch of the pulmonary artery ; those in front run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the right coronary plexus (p. 342) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery to the a few go to root of the lung. root of lung. The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligament of the arterial Left part: duct, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the g^^ing it • cardiac nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and offsets end the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after supplying branches to nnaryfpJex,°s the left auricle, terminate in the left coronary plexus (p. 342). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the ligament to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some nerves reach the left and in mot anterior pulmonary plexus by coursing along the branch of the oflun6- pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve of the Other car- neck (p. 114). diac nerves. On the right side there may be only two cardiac nerves entering The right the thorax, for the highest nerve is often blended with one of the enter deel' others. These nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the pIexus" right half of the deep plexus ; and they communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the one left aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a gnterr3fi jal. branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, others the' the middle cardiac, is usually seen entering the left side of the deep deep plexus- plexus, as the lower one generally blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see fully the pieces of the airtube in the root of To see the the lung, it will be necessary to divide the branches of the pul- 'rac,1!e?and _ , i ^i 1 . . " its divisions. monary artery and the pulmonary vems. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the connective tissue from the