GREY SUBSTANCE OP CORD. Fig. 129.* commissural or connecting piece between them. The same cut demonstrates the existence of a mass of grey matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half), united by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure consists of two parts, viz., a transverse band of grey matter (fig. 128, h), with a white stratum in front. The grey transverse band (posterior or grey commissure) connects the opposite crescents, and is placed rather nearer the front than the back of the cord. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the spinal cord (fig. 128, i), which is beet seen in the foetus. It reaches the whole length of the medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, the canal opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and below, it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, and is obstructed by a granular material near the upper end. The anterior or white commissure is best marked opposite the en- largements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. TJie Iwlf of the medulla. In the half of the cord, as in the com- missure, grey and white portions exist; the former is elongated from before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The grey crescent (fig. 128, g) has its extremities or cornua directed towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line. The crescentic masses in the opposite halves of the cord are xuiited by the grey com- missure. The posterior cornu is long and slender (fig. 129), and reaches nearly to the surface along the lateral fissure. It is rather narrow at its base (cervix ; T), and enlarged towards its extremity (caput;'), where it is surmounted by a semi-trans- parent layer which has been named the substantia gelatinosa (s). There is also on the inner side of the cervix of the posterior cornu a special portion of grey matter containing nerve-cells, the posterior vesicular column of Clarke (8), which is most developed in the lower dorsal region. The anterim- cornu (fig. 129,2) is shorter and thicker than the posterior, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline A third smaller projection of the grey matter is seen in the upper part of the dorsal region of the cord, on the outer side of the crescent between the anterior and posterior horns : this is known as the inter- mediate process (Gowers) or the lateral cornu (fig. 129,6). * Outline of the grey substance in the spinal cord npar th» mlAM* „f «. do.al region (Lockhart Clarke). 1 Capu't posteriori cornu. 3. Substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord 5 P„, ! " The com- missure : tlie'grcy part, with its central canal lined by epithelium ; the white part. The half of the cord. The grey- crescent. Posterior cornu : its parts. Anterior cornu. Inter- mediate process.