734 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. A thin part of the membrane in notch. osseous part, situation and termi- nation ; cartilagi- nous part. Mastoid cells : position and extent; open into mastoid antrum : may ap- proach surface; develop- ment. Membrane in fenestra rotunda : construc- tion (fig. 232, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. Occupying the notch above-mentioned in the upper part of the osseous margin (notch of Rivinus), there is a small piece of the membrane which is softer and looser than the rest (membrana flaccida), being formed only by lax connective tissue between the skin and the mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube (fig. 230, e) is the channel through which the tympanic cavity communicates with the external air. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed forwards and inwards, as well as somewhat downwards, to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowest at its anterior end. Its course in the temporal bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Anteriorly it ends in a somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives attachment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx (p. 125). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the ear is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The mastoid cells are air-spaces occupying the interior of the temporal bone behind the tympanum and the external auditory meatus. They reach downwards into the mastoid process, and up- wards for a short distance into the adjoining region of the squamous portion of the bone. In front they communicate with the tympanum through asmall chamber named the antrum mastoideum (fig. 231, am). Their size and extent vary greatly in different individuals; and in some cases they are separated only by a very thin layer of bone from the exterior of the skull on the one side, and from the lateral sinus on the other. In the infant the mastoid antrum is present, but the cells are not formed ; the latter are developed at, or a little before, the period of puberty. The SECONDARY MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM is placed in the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the cavity, viz., an external or mucous, derived from the * Inner -view of the membrana tympani in the foetus, with the malleus attached, a. Membrane of the tympanum. 6. Malleus, c. Baud of circu- lar fibres at the circumference of the membrane, d. Anterior, and e, posterior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.