726 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. To obtain u view of it, and of its front. Form and position of vitreous: it consists of jelly, with a central canal, and of the hyaloid membrane: both are without vessels. Suspensor.i ligament: extent ; is marked by folds; inner attachment condition how altered. greater part of the space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 223, h). Dissection. The vitreous body may he seen on the eye on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, an eyeball should be fixed upright, and the sclerotic and choroid coats cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; then on removing carefully the cornea, the ciliary muscle and pro- cesses, and the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (fig. 223, h) is globular in form, and fills about four-fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule (g), to which it is closely united. It is composed of a thin watery jelly, contained in a transparent membrane named hyaloid. The jelly consists in great part of fluid, which drains away when the vitreous body is exposed on a flat surface, or placed on a filter, and only a very small amount of solid matter remains ; but whether in the natural state it possesses any definite structure is uncertain. In the central part of the vitreous body, however, there is a canal filled with fluid (hyaloid canal), which extends from the optic papilla of the retina to the back of the lens-capsule, and served in the fcetus for the transmission of the capsular branch of the central artery of the retina. This canal is not visible without special preparation. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the thin, glassy, structureless layer enclosing the vitreous body, except at the fore part where the lens is placed. At the bottom of the ball, around the optic papilla, the membrane is closely connected with the retina ; and it sends a pro- longation forwards to line the canal of the vitreous. In front, the membrane becomes thicker as it approaches the ciliary processes, and is continued into the suspensory ligament of the lens. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extravascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligament op the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a transparent membranous structure (fig. 226, f), placed around the lens-capsule, which joins externally the hyaloid membrane opposite the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface; and when these are washed away, plaits (ciliary processes) come into view, which are less prominent and longer than the processes of the choroid coat; but do not quite reach the lens-capsule internally. The two sets of prominences are dovetailed together,—the projections of one being received into hollows between the other; and in the fresh state the two structures are closely adherent. The membrane contains numerous si ill' radiating fibres, which internally become collected into bundles,* and are attached to the margin, and the adjacent part of the anterior surface of the lens-capsule. The tenseness is influenced by the state of the ciliary muscle, for during its contraction the