LAMINAE AND LOBES. 229 cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named and the inferior vermiform process (c to e), wliich corresponds to the fowcr'worm. central part uniting the hemispheres above. The two vermiform processes constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Laminae and Sulci. The superficial part of the cerebellum is Surface composed of grey substance, and is marked by concentric laminae or toliate(1- folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laminse Between are separated by sulci, which are lined by pia mater, and are of *re variable depth. Only a small number of the laminse appear on the Many folia surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger pro- are hidden, cesses, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The laminse, especially the smaller ones, are frequently interrupted by the junction of neighbouring sulci. On the upper aspect many of the Arrange- laminse pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with worm."' only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected by means of the special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. Tbe deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the lamina into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface. On the upper surface theUpperioi.es hemisphere is divided into tw o lobes by a deep sulcus which arches nre outwards and forwards from the hinder end of the superior anterior, * Under surface of the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, b. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to c. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of—c. Uvula. d. Pyramid, e. Tuber valvules. Lobes of the under surface. /. Flocculus. <j. Amygdaloid, h, i. Biventral. Between i and k. Slender, h. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the cms cerebri. 5. Fifth nerve.