513 ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. form the common bile-duct. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac ^^ac. from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The and is pro- mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common ^^swlth bile-ducts. On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to Mucous coat form about twelve semilunar projections (fig. 161, c), which are llke a screw- arranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried, as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Blood-vessels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named Artery and cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein vein ' opens into the right branch of the vena portae. The nerves are nerves and derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the lymphatics on lymphatics, the under surface of the liver. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The kidney has a characteristic form, resembling an oval with Kidney: one side (the inner) somewhat hollowed out, and being compressed form; from before backwards. For the purpose of distinguishing between to distin- the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be turned ^"^[g^f11 inwards, with the ureter or the excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end of the viscus be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour; red colour, and has an even surface. Its average length is about four size; inches ; its breadth two and a half inches ; and its thickness rather more than one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is about four ounces and weight, and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The left kidney is slightly heavier than the right. The upper extremity of the kidney is broader than the lower, and Extrcmi- is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is moret,es; pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surfaces; surface it is more flattened. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is borders, marked by a longitudinal fissure—the hilum. In the fissure the Contents of vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—The divisions t,,e.ll88Ure" of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches ^s^on. of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and Lymphatics ramify ; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. The fissure leads into a hollow named the sinus, in which the vessels sinus, and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. L L