634 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. insertion externally into fascia and femur. Relations of the surfaces and borders. Use on femur, on pelvis, and on knee, Divide the gluteus maximus, clean parts beneath. from above clown, to the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip-bone below it ; next, to the aponeu- rosis of the erector spina) muscle ; then to the back of the fourth and fifth pieces of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly, to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres &tq directed downwards and outwards to their insertion:—The whole of the upper half of the muscle, and a few superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia lata (ilio-tibial band) of the outer side of the thigh ; and the remainder are fixed into the rough line (gluteal ridge) leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in its situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common integuments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the super- ficial nerves and vessels. The things in contact with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlies the gluteus medius. -The lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upper, in its inner part bounds pos- teriorly the perineal space, and in the rest of its extent lies obliquely across the back of the thigh ; beneath it the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue. Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip-joint by putting back that bone ; and the upper part can abduct, but the part inserted into the femur will adduct and rotate out the limb. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised from a sitting info a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis ; and in standing on one leg, the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. By tightening the ilio-tibial band, the gluteus maximus also supports and steadies the knee-joint in the extended position. In this action it is assisted by the tensor vaginae femoris, which corrects the tendency of the gluteus to draw the ilio-tibial band backwards. Dissection (fig. 195). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across a little external to the middle ; and the deptli of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer piece of the gluteus may be at once thrown towards its insertion ; but the inner piece is to be carefully raised, and the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve, and of the gluteal and sciatic arteries entering its deep surface, are to be cleaned. The loose fat is then to be taken away from the hollow between the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined, may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In the areolar tissue from the