493 ENDING OF FNEUM0-GAST1UC NERVES. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 483); bat the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the Ef"j^| cms of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- splanchnic , ,. nerve, lunar ganglion. The small nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the cceliac plexus. The smallest nerve, which is often absent, throws itself into the and ' smallest. renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pncumo-gastric nerves end on the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along the Ending of J ' _ loft Vfl,rUS small curvature, and over the front of the stomach ; these send offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and right, stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the cceliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the viscera are now to be l-emoved from the ^*/^rutf^ abdomen, in order that the body may be turned for the dissection bod™ by of the back. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing 1 ' iiii the viscera, are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and cutting the vena cava below the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination while the body is turned; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual fulseetor. time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in Chapter V, p. 386. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IV, ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between Definition, the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme. Dissection. To see the form, the stomach must lie blown up mode- Separate and blow