336 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Koot of the lung : situation ; relations. Consti- tuents of the root ; their rela- tive posi- tions. The root of the lung consists of the vessels entering the fissure'on the inner surface ; and as these are hound together hy the pleura and some areolar tissue they form a stalk, which attaches the lung to the heart and the windpipe. The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway between the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth from the posterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides are the phrenic and the anterior pulmonary nerves, the former being some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind on both sides is the posterior pulmonary plexus ; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the azygos vein ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary artery, two pulmonary veins, and a division of the airtube (bronchus); small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the airtube have the following: positions to one another :— On both sides the bronchus is behind, the pulmonary veins in front, and the pulmonary artery in the middle. In the direction from above down the position on the right side is bronchus, pul- monary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery change places, and the order is artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides is accounted for by the bronchus of the right side giving off its branch to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the artery ; while on the left side there is no corresponding branch of the airtube, and the artery crosses the undivided bronchial stem. Pericar- dium. Clean ves- sels of heart, First aorta, then inno- minate veins and branches, and upper cava. THE PERICARDIUM. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the two pleurae. Dissection. Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large vessels above the heart, and trace the nerves. The large artery curving to the left above the pericardium is the- aorta, which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., from right to left, the innominate, the left common carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side lies the larger pulmonary artery. Above the arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left innominate, crosses over the three arteries mentioned above, and ends by uniting- on the right side with the right innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter this trunk. Define the branches of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side,' which is the left superior intercostal vein (fig. 108, i). The large vein by the side of the aorta is the upper cava ; and the azygos vein will be found opening into it behind.