32ti DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. Dissection. Axticula r surfaces. and contact. Synovial sacs, two or three. Inter- osseous ligaments, metacarpal, and carpal. Dissection of linger- joints. Metacarpo- phalangeal articula- tions : lateral ligaments ; anterior ligament posterior. Synovial sac. Joint of thumb. Kinds of motion: the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, with a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the hones in the carpo-meta- carpal articulation may he seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal hone of the fore finger presents a hollowed articular surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid hone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and os magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the unciform bone and the os magnivm. And the little finger bone is opposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are interposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz., a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 324) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals with the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be recpusite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the fingers. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 100). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligament (a) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (b) is a strong and dense band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is grooved for the flexor tendon ; and to its sides the lateral liga- ments are united. On the dorsal aspect of the joint, the capsule is completed by a thin layer of connective tissue which supports the synovial mem- brane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are coimected with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion hi four opposite directions, together with circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints.