MOVEMENTS OF SPINE. 379 In the neck the place of the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments is taken by the ligamentum nucha? (p. 384). Ligaments of the transverse processes. In the loins the inter- inter- transverse ligaments are thin membranous bands in the intervals ftgamlnts! between the processes. In the dorsal region there are rounded fibrous bundles (fig. 118/) passing between the extremities of the transverse processes of the middle vertebra, and representing inter- transverse muscles of the lower spaces. In the neck they are generally absent altogether. Ligaments op Special Vertebrae. The description of the Ligaments ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebra! vertebrae, -will be found with the dissection of the neck (p. 172) and of the pelvis (p. 589). Movements op Spinal Column. The spinal column can be Kinds of bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and it can be rotated. Iuotion- In flexion the vertebra? between the axis and sacrum are inclined Flexion: forwards. The greatest movement takes place between the lower lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum ; there is an intermediate degree degree; in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, movement while they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular of bo"es' processes of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper of the third ; the inferior processes of the third bone move in like manner on the upper of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is relaxed, but the posterior, state of and those uniting the neural arches and processes are tightened. hsamont,i- The fore part of each intervertebral disc is compressed, and the back is stretched. In extension the column is arched backwards. The motion is Extension: most in the neck, and least in the dorsal vertebra?, which are fixed where most, by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their move- and least; nient by the overlapping spinous processes. The posterior parts of the vertebra? are approximated, while the movement anterior are separated ; and the inferior articular processes of each of bones; glide downwards on the upper ones of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion, state of Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind, and stretched lisa,nents- in front; the spinous and yellow ligaments are relaxed ; the anterior common ligament of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be curved to the right or the Bendingto left side. Like the last movement, this bend is least in the more sWe: fixed upper dorsal vertebra?, and is greatest in the neck. extent: On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are movement brought nearer together ; and they are carried away from each other of bo,lrs: on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter-state of ligaments.