249 PECTORALIS MAJOR MUSCLE. occupies the hinder part of the space, lying near the subscapular o™J}£; vessels; and the third accompanies the long thoracic artery, beneath ' the margin of the pectoralis major. Commonly there are in all ten or twelve ; but in number and size they vary much. Small twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the blood-vessels receive the lymphatics and vessels of the arm; those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lymphatics of the side of the chest and of the back; and those beneath the pectoral muscle by the lymphatics of the front of the chest, as well as by some from the mamma. The efferent vessels unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the neck of the same side; or some may enter separately the subclavian vein. The pectoralis major (a) is triangular in shape, with the base Great pec- at the sternum, and the apex at the arm. It arises from the inner j£ig|.ie> half of the front of the clavicle, from the anterior surface of the sternum and the cartilages of the upper six ribs, and below from and sterno- the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. ^jjj?} From this wide origin the fibres take different directions—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, wdiile the lower ones ascend behind the middle portion of the muscle ; and all er«on end in a tendon, which is inserted into the pectoral ridge on the into hunie- outer side of the bicipital groove of the humerus. rus- This muscle bounds the axilla in front, and its lower border forms Relations, the anterior fold of the hollow. Covering it are the integuments, with the mamma and the thin deep fascia, as well as the platysma close to the clavicle. The upper border is adjacent to the deltoid muscle, the cephalic vein and a-small artery lying between the two. Between the clavicular and sternal origins is a narrow interval, Interval which corresponds to a depression on the surface. The parts two^arts!'16 beneath the pectoralis major will be seen subsequently. Action. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move for- Use: flexes, wards the limb until the elbow reaches the front of the trunk, and lotates will rotate it in. When the limb is raised, the pectoralis depresses and adducts it; and adducts and acting with other muscles inserted into the humerus, it may dis- ann; locate the head of that bone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed, as in climbing, the trunk will be raises ribs, raised by both muscles ; and the lower fibres can elevate the ribs in laborious breathing. Dissection (fig. 73). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across Dissection, now in the following manner :— Only the clavicular part is to he first divided, so that the branches Cut elavicu- of nerve and artery to the muscle may be found. Eeflect the l]"e pectoral cut piece of the muscle, and press.the limb against the edge of the table, for the purpose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that bone ; on carefully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath will be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves.