DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 653 checks to movement. Lateral movement motion of the head; state of the ligaments. Dislocation in lateral movements. Circum- duction. Rotation inwards, and out- wards. Examine attachment of muscles. In extension the strong ilio-femoral ligament (the inner hand especially) is tightened, and stops the movement. Flexion is not naturally arrested by the ligaments of the joint, hut hy the meeting of the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen. In abduction and adduction the femur is removed from, or brought towards, the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction is the more extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow when it is moved inwards, though, if it is carried in front of the other, adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and a great part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the upper edge of the neck meets the edge of the acetabulum, so as to prevent farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head rises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the pubo-femoral ligament and lower part of the capsule are tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is rendered tense and arrests the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum on which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, the base of which is at its extremity, and apex at the centre of the head of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint. There are two kinds of rotation, internal aud external; in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line internal to it, which passes from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out, the head of the bone rolls forwards across the cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backwards. The outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is tightened and checks the movement. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the muscles in the thigh are to be examined more minutely before the dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study.