DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 Cotyloid ligament attached round acetabulum Transverse ligament forms a hole with bone. Round ligament shape and attach- ments ; how to see its action ; loose in extension tight in flexion with adduction and rotation out. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 186, g) is a narrow band of fibro- cartilage, which is fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged across the notch below, so as to form part of the trans- verse ligament. Its fibres are not continued around the acetabulum, but are fixed to the margin of the cavity, and cross one another in the band. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetabulum, deepens the socket for the femur, and makes a flexible margin to the cavity, which can yield slightly when the neck of the femur is pressed against it. The transverse ligament (fig. 186) bridges across the notch in the margin of the acetabulum. It consists partly of deep special fibres (h) which are attached to the margins of the notch ; and partly of a superficial bundle from the cotyloid ligament (g). Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nerves enter the acetabulum to supply the synovial membrane and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular ligament (ligamentum teres ; fig. 202, b) is a band about an inch long, but of very variable thickness, which con- nects the head of the femur with the hip-bone. The ligament has a triangular form, the apex of the triangle being fixed to the pit on the head of the femur, and the base joining the transverse ligament. The free sides of the triangle are formed by two fibrous bundles, an anterior or pubic (c), which is attached with the transverse ligament to the pubic edge of the cotyloid notch, and a posterior or ischial (d), which is stronger, and is inserted beneath the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the notch. To see the condition of the interarticular ligament in the different movements of the joint, it should be examined in a specimen in which the capsule is entire, and the floor of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel from inside the pelvis. During extension of the joint the ligament is relaxed; and it cannot be tightened so long as the fully extended position is main- tained. In flexion of the joint the ligament is rendered somewhat tighter; but it is only fully stretched when, with the joint bent, the femur is adducted or rotated out : the pubic fasciculus of the band is especially tightened by the adduction, and the ischial slip by the outward rotation. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along the neck of the femur to the margin of the articular surface. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surrounds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum, the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular lio-ament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis : at this stage the pelvic attachments of the interarticular ligament can be better displayed.