DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 466 musck' in The wicltl1 is lessene(1 by the contraction of the abdominal SSafof "' muscles j but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action abdomen. 0f the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest .^XT°ta dimmution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of Division of the space. A division has been made of the space into .space. ^ a^,jornen pr0per ail{i tjie cavity of the pelvis. Abdomen The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges nearly the whole of the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys, portion ^e Pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. Abdomen The following description concerns the part of the cavity between described.16 the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of Pelvis after, the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion will receive a separate notice (p. 539). A'Kioniinai Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided into regions by lines drawn through certain points of the parietes. marked out If two horizontal lines are carried round the body, so that one into regions. ^e 0pp0Site the lowest point of the thoracic wall on each side, and the other on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest, the abdomen will be divided into three zones,—upper, middle and lower. Three lateral Each of these zones is farther subdivided into three by a vertical side*0 lme on each side, falling on the centre of Poupart's bgament. The regions marked off, on each side, from the three zones by the vertical line are named respectively, from above downwards, hypo- and three chondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; while the central parts are designated, central. from above down, epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric, other sub- In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space divisions. js name(j pubic region, while the contiguous portions of the hypo- gastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. Things in Contents and their position. The alimentary tube, the liver, pan- creas, spleen, and kidneys occupy the abdomen proper. Viscera seen Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following displace- viscera appeal- (fig. 144) :—Above and to the right is the liver, ment. which is in great part concealed by the ribs. Lower down, and more to the left, a piece of the stomach is visible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a loose fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. The caecum (cm) is usually to be seen in the right iliac region ; and sometimes a part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon comes to the surface in the corresponding situa- tion on the left side. Close above the pubic symphysis is the apex of the bladder (bl), with the urachus (ur) continued upwards from it; and if the organ is distended, a larger part of it is exposed. General -phe alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided division of ^ 1