STYLO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE. 95 Hyo- glossus, in contact with many parts. Use. Stylo- glossus comes to side of tongue. The hyo-glossus muscle (fig. 23,') is thin and somewhat square in shape. It arises from the lateral part of the body, and from all the great cornu, of the hyoid bone. The fibres ascend and enter the side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with those of the palato- and stylo-glossus.* The parts lying on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, as well as those passing beneath its anterior and posterior borders, have already been enumerated ; and under the muscle there are also portions of the genio-glossus and middle constrictor. Action. This muscle depresses the tongue, drawing down the sides and giving a rounded form to the dorsum ; and if the tongue is protruded from the mouth, the fibres will draw it backwards into that cavity. The stylo-glossus (fig. 23, 3) is a slender muscle, which arises from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is directed downwards and forwards to' Fig. 23. t the hinder part of the lateral margin of the tongue. Here it gives some fibres to the dorsum, but the greater part of the muscle turns to the under surface, and is con- tinued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the lingual nerve. Action. Both muscles will raise the back of the tongue against the roof of the mouth; and if the tongue is protruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the ( ^~n„ / of one. point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The geniohyoid muscle (fig. 23, 4) arises from the lower of the mental spines on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the hyoid bone. The lower surface of this muscle is covered by the mylo-hyoid, Relations, and the upper is in contact with the genio-glossus (3). The inner border touches the muscle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Action. The genio-hyoid either depresses the lower jaw or Use Use of both Genio- hyoid. * A distinct muscular slip (chondro-glossus), arising from the small cornu of the hyoid bone, is sometimes regarded as a part of the hyo-glossus. For farther details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, reference is made to the dissection of the tongue, Section XV. t Muscles of the tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. 2. Stylo-glossus. 3. Genio- glossus. 4. Genio-hyoid. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus.