198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Changes in anterior liorn, in posterior liorn, and in commissure, Special grey masses. Pons : position, form, surfaces, borders, and sides. It consists of ventral and dorsal portions. Dissection The anterior cornu is broken up by the passage through it of the fibres of the crossed pyramidal tract, and the detached extremity of the horn is continued upwards in the lateral tract for some distance as the lateral nucleus. The posterior cornu is pushed outwards by the increasing development of the slender and cuneate funiculi, and its extremity (caput), consistuig of the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, becomes greatly enlarged and approaches the surface, giving rise to the funiculus and tubercle of Rolando (fig. 58, c). Prom the base of the horn, processes of the grey matter extend backwards into the slender and cuneate funiculi, and are known as the nuclei of those bodies. They are largest in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the fourth ventricle, where they cause the swellings which have been described above as the clava and cuneate tubercle (p. 193). By the opening out of the posterior median fissure and central canal of the cord to form the fourth ventricle, the anterior portion of the grey commissure and the bases of the anterior horns are exposed, constituting the grey layer in the floor of that cavity. Special deposits of grey matter. These are the olivary nucleus, which has just been examined, some groups of nerve-cells at the back of the medulla oblongata forming nuclei of origin for several cranial nerves, which will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle, and a few small masses of grey substance on the front of the medulla beneath the superficial arciform fibres (nuclei arciformes). Pons Varolii. The PONS varolii (annular protuberance, fig. 54) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between the hemispheres of the cere- bellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelii, resting against the hinder part of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is nearly of a sepjare shape, though it is rather wider from side to side, in which direction it measures about an inch and a half. The anterior surface is convex and prominent on each side, but marked along the middle line by a groove in which the basilar artery lies. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The upper border is the longer, and arches over the crura cerebri. The lower border is nearly straight, and projects above the medulla oblongata. On each side the pons is continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the fifth nerve issues at the junction of the two. Structure. The ventral or anterior half of the pons consists of transverse fibres which are in part of their extent divided into two layers by the prolongation upwards of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata. The dorsal or posterior half is a continua- tion of the reticular formation, with the grey layer of the floor of the fourth ventricle, from the medulla. Dissection. The superficial transverse fibres of the pons being