584 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. internal, and middle. Mucous membrane. The internal fibres describe circles round the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the vagina at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body it is thin and soft, of a reddish-white colour, smooth, and closely Fig. 183.* Vessels are large. Arteries. Veins. Nerves. Lympha- tics : two sets. Round liga- ment ends in groin ; attachment to uterus ; adherent. In the cervix it is stronger, and presents the folds before referred to. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 560). The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are of large size, and form plexuses in the uterus (p. 560). The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 565), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Round ligament of the uterus (fig. 171, n). This firm cord sup- ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper end of the uterus close below and in front of the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum * Interior of the uterus, with a posterior view of the broad ligament and the uterine appendages, a. Body, and b. Neck of the uterus, o. Cavity of e. Fallopian tube, and /. Its trumpet-shaped the body, and d, of the neck, end. gr. The fimbria attached to the ovary, ovary, h. Parovarium. h. Ovary, t. Ligament of the