561 SACEAL NERVES. The superior hemorrhoidal artbry, the continuation behind Superior the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 482), divides into two rhoidaf branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate oppo- encls iu site the internal sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the mucous loops, membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior h£emorrhoi- dal arteries. The middle sacral artert of the aorta (p. 527 ; fig. 172, 6)de- Middle scends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, which has and the coccyx. The arteiy gives small branches laterally, oppo- lateral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral offsets- arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perios- teum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. The middle sacral veins end in the left common iliac. Dissection (fig. 173). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection right side, it will be necessary to detach the triangular ligament ofthepeYvisS with the urethra from the bone ; and to cut through, on the right side, the fore part of the recto-vesical fascia and levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended, let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be first four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should sacral> follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches from the third and fourth to the viscera. The last sacral and the coccy- last and geal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccvo'<»l. coccygeus muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is sympa- a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends thetic' branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains, the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral Spinal Nerves (figs. 173 and 174). The anterior sacral primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and nerv^a aro decrease rapidly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the VC = apertures in the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the {!lcxu.s"ter coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the plexus is described. o o