495 STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) round the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 151, e) are continuous with the circular or «d«W»r» deep layer of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter (d and e) (Henle) ; those on the left («), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Fibrous or submucous coat. By removing the muscular layer over ^fibrous a small space, the fihrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum but Fig. 15 J.* of areolar tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucous but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a eoat: recent specimen. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death, feel and in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the colour * membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When folds; the stomach is contracted the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy ridges or rugm, which become longitudinal along the great curvature, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the thickness; pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and disposition at pylorus. * Diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach. The external and middle layers are partly removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres. b. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus. d. Oblique fibres on the right of the cardiac opening, e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the left of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach.