DISSECTION OF NEEVES. 107 be defined; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A commu- nication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneiuno-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, from which the auricular branch before referred to takes origin ; and from the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part afterwards of the foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This ^yngeal*8'" nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the skull (fig. 2 7) : one jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrous), is situate at the hinder border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve of and its Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the bl'anc]ies- jugular foramen and the carotid canal, and another filament of communication with the ganglion of the sympathetic. Sometimes the dissector will be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Below the foramen of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have Dissection been for the most part denuded by the dissection of the internal °„ the "neck* carotid ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves, near the skull, are to be traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufficiently laid of spinal bare already ; but its small piece is to be traced to the vagus close accessory > to the skull, and onwards along that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has also been dissected ; of giosso- but the offsets on the carotid, and others to the pharynx in front of ijharyi,8eal: the artery are to be defined. On the pneumo-gastric trunk the student will find an enlarge- of vagus; ment close to the skvdl (ganglion of the trunk), to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two pharyngeal branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the plexus> parts indicated by their names, especially the first which enters the pharyngeal plexus. The task of exposing the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the glosso-pharyngeal and sympa- thetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. Two or more cardiac cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at the lower part °asets' of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly, the dissector may prepare more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the and recur- lower end of the common carotid : by removing the fat around it, rent' offsets may be seen passing to the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypoglossal nerve remains of hypo- to be made ready for learning ; its communications with the vagus, glossal; sympathetic, and the spinal nerves are to be shown. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on of sympa- thetic in part.