DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. IK and Gasse- rian gang- lion on it; gives three branches. Small root. Difference in l In; use of the roots. Ophthalmic nerve enters orbit, supplies dura mater in its course. Sixth nerve is in cavern- ous sinus; joins sym- pathetic. Seventh and eighth nerves leave skull to- gether. dura mater into the middle fossa of the hase of the skull, where it immediately enters the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion, placed in a depression close to the point of the petrous part of the temporal Lone, is flattened, and about half an inch wide. The upper surface of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semdunar elevation, the convexity of which looks forwards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and forehead. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The small root, lying in the same tube of the dura mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion which are unconnected with the .small or motor root, viz., the ophthalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. It will moreover be subsequently seen that the fibres of the motor root are almost entirely confined to the part of the inferior maxillary nerve supplying the muscles of the lower jaw, and that the larger branches of the nerve are wholly sensory in function. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sphenoidal fissure and the orbit to the fore- head. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it divides into three branches (p. 40). In this situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig. 4,f) to the tentorium cerebelli. The sixth or abducent nerve (fig. 4, 6) enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, instead of lying in the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery; and it is joined by one or two large branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. The seventh or facial and the eighth or auditory nerves (fig. 4,7) pass together into the internal auditory meatus, the facial being the smaller and higher of the two. At the bottom of the meatus they separate; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear.