646 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. boundaries, outer and inner; limit above and below; This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the biceps muscle (°) as far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (8) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembra- nosus (4) and semitendinosus superficial and deep boundaries; ijreatest width and depth ; contents. Popliteal artery: extent ; only a small part in space. Fig. 198* (5) muscles with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femui; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius ('). The upper point of the ham is formed by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower point the heads of the gas- trocnemius touch each other. Stretched over the cavity are the fascia lata and the integuments. In the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following things,—the surface on the back of the femur included between the lines to the condyles (popliteal surface), the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint, and part of the popliteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest and deepest immediately above the fe- moral condyles. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein; the popliteal trunks of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superficially in the ham; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the artery in the bottom of the space. The popliteal artery (fig. 198, *) is the continuation of the femoral, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. A portion of the artery lies in the popliteal space, and is not covered by muscle; * View of the popliteal space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimembranosus muscle. 5. Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7, 8. Inner ana outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial vein on the gastro- cnemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.