99 DISSECTION OF EIGHT ORBIT. The "land consists of from ten to twenty small masses, each of a™1.' which has a separate duct. The ducts (ducts of Rivinus) open for ture. the most part on the sublingual mucous fold, but some of them join the submaxillary duct, and one larger tube (duct of Bartholin), which is however frequently wanting, springs from the deeper part of the gland and runs forwards to end either in common with, or close to the duct of Wharton. Section VIII. EIGHT OEBIT AND SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Directions. The student may examine next the right orbit, and Directions, the remaining trunk, superior maxillary, of the fifth nerve. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vary Learn right the dissection by exposing it from the outer side. Dissection. For this purpose, first detach the eyelids from the Open orbit outer half of the orbital margin, and with the handle of the scalpel outer side, separate the periosteum from the corresponding part of the wall of the cavity. Then saw vertically through the centre of the upper margin of the orbit, and continue the cut backwards with a chisel to the sphenoidal fissure. Make a farther cut, also with a chisel, (from the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and outside the line of the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is next to be sawn transversely in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards the malar bone is to be sawn through into the spheno- maxillary fissure. The piece of the skull, including parts of the frontal, malar, sphenoid, and temporal bones, is now loose, and can be removed with the temporal muscle. If the portion of the roof of the orbit which is left should interfere with the view of the contents of the cavity in the later stages of the dissection, let it be taken away with the bone-forceps. The desciiption that has been given of the contents of the left orbit (pp. 39, et seq.) may be used also for the right side. The following will serve as a guide to the steps of the dissection :— On removing the periosteum, the external rectus muscle will be Order of the at once seen, and its two heads should be defined, with the nerves dissection- entering the cavity above and between them. Along the upper border of the muscle the lachrymal nerve and artery are to be followed to the lachrymal gland, and beyond these the levator palpebrse superioris and superior rectus muscles are exposed, as well as the frontal and fourth nerves. When these have been studied, tin- external rectus, with the lachrymal vessels and nerve, are to be divided in the middle, and the parts thrown forwards and back- wards. Then take away the fat from the lenticular ganglion, the n 2