SUBCLAVIAN AETEEY. G7 The scaleni muscles are usually described as three in number, Number of and are named from their relative position, anterior, middle, and ^Uscius. posterior ; they extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. The scalenus anticus (fig. 16,') is somewhat conical in shape, Scalenus and arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of antl<;us- the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra. It is inserted 0rigin • insertion into the upper surface and inner border of the first rib, surrounding the rough mark or projection on this part of the bone known as the scalene tubercle. More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed by Relations, the clavicle and the clavicular part of the stemo-mastoid: the phrenic nerve lies along its anterior surface, and the subclavian vein with vessels, crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath it are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and and nerves, the nerves of the brachial plexus. The attachment to the vertebra corresponds with the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. The anterior muscle raises strongly the first rib, in conse- Use- quence of its forward attachment. If the rib is fixed, it bends forwards the lower part of the neck. The scalenus medius muscle (fig. 16, 2) is larger than the Scalenus anterior, and extends highest of all on the vertebrae. Its origin is mediUs- from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the 0ngin • cervical vertebra (fig. 45, d) ; and it is inserted into an impression insertion, on the upper surface of the first rib, extending from the tuberosity behind to the groove for the subclavian artery in front. In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery Parts in and the cervical nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle ; withTt the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The fibres are perforated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the tJse. cervical part of the spine can be inclined laterally by one muscle. The scalenus posticus (fig. 45, f) is inconsiderable in size, and Scalenus appears to be part of the preceding muscle. Arising from two or postl0US- three of the lower cervical transverse processes, it is inserted below, ^"uts!" by a thin tendon about half an inch wide, into the second rib in front of the serratus posticus superior. Action. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and its fibres Use. having the same direction as those of the medius, it will help to incline the neck in the same way. The subclavian artery (fig. 16) is the first portion of the large Subclavian trunk supplying the upper limb with blood, and is thus desig-artery nated from its position beneath the clavicle. On the right side, extends to this vessel (8) is derived from the bifurcation of the innominate um'ur Vlmh> artery behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the outer border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the top of the lung and the first rib, F 2