398 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. outer branches, and give a spinal branch. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer branches. Occipital veins. Deep cervi- cal vein, and plexus of back of neck. Beginning of vertebral vein. Dorsal .and lumbar, and deep veins. Muscles of the fifth layer. Dissection of.the last layer of muscles. Rectus posticus major: attach- ments ; relations ; spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets Avith the nerves. * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the spinal canal (p. 414). * The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide, like the foregoing, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the erector and multifidus spina;. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. * The internal brandies are small, and end in the midtifidus spinas. * The external b-anches supply the erector spinas ; and offsets are continued to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. The occipital veins communicate usually with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pass beiieath the complexus to enter the deep cervical vein. The deep cervical vein is of large size, and besides receiving the occipital veins, communicates with the other deep veins of this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It passes forwards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins the vertebral vein. The vertebral vein begins above the neural arch of the atlas by the union of an offset leaving the spinal canal with the artery and branches from the above-mentioned plexus. * The dorsal and lumbar veins agree in their branching and distri- bution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the corresjiond- ing trunks of the thoracic and abdominal wall. In contact with the spinous processes and laminas of the vertebrae is a deeper set of veins (dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and communicate through the ligamenta subflava with the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. * Fifth Layer of Muscles. In this layer are included the small recti and oblicpri of the head, the transverso-spinales, the inter- spinales, and the intertransversales. Dissection. Most of the remaining muscles of the back have been uncovered by the previous dissections. Between the first two vertebras and. the occipital bone are the straight and oblique muscles. * Between the erector spinse and the spines of the vertebras are the transverso-spinales, and internal to these the small interspinales. The intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be exposed by removing the erector spinas. The rectus capitis posticus major (fig. 122, a) arises from the side of the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is covered by the complexus, and at its insertion by