319 UNION OF RADIUS AND ULNA. Head of the radius. Kind of motion : bending; Radius is joined to ulna, across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is -wanting over a small space between the coronoicl and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin, -winch plays over the capitellum of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, permitting only flexion and extension. In flexion, the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as leave the back of the humerus un- covered. The movement is checked by the meeting of the arm and forearm ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the ulna and radius are carried back over the articular extending, surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- Fig- 95-* bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front of the joint. TJhion of the Eadius and Ulna. The radius is connected with the ulna "at both ends by means of synovial joints, -with siirrounding ligaments; and the shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. Upper radioulnar articu- lation. In this joint the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the idna, and is kept in place by the fol- lowing ligamentous band:— The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 95, a) is about one-third of an inch -wide, and is stronger behind than before ; it is placed around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected -with the ligaments of the elbow-joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that hning the elbow- joint ; it projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the anmdar ligament. Ligaments of the shafts of the bones. The aponeurotic stratum connecting together the bones in nearly their whole length consists of the two following parts :— The interosseous membrane (fig. 94,3) is a thin fibrous layer, which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front at the upper eud by orbicular ligament around the head of the bone; synovial membrane. Union of the shafts: interosseous membrane * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna.