' 11 coneus, MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 281 over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery which de- Trace . i i • . i branches, scend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, tlie triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head ; and the veins are to be cut away. The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery (p. 276) Superior turns to the back of the humerus between the inner and outer heads artery of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and liesloehind deltoid muscles, and is continued onwards in the groove in the bone the hume- to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal off- rus; sets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the re- current radial branch ; while a larger one descends along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and joins the radial and posterior interosseous recurrent branches. Branches. Most of the terminal offsets of the vessel descend to supplies the elbow, supplying the triceps, and communicating with the f"nns a cir- inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery ?le around (p. 276), and with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the"'01"*' forearm except the anterior ulnar. One slender twig accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, cutaneous and accompany the superficial nerves. offsets. The musculo-spiral nerve (fig. 72/) is the largest trunk of the Musculo- posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 256), and is continued along tvinds nm'e the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the superior profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the to outer sWe brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle °f the a"u ' of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves (fig. 92,2 and 3). The nerve gives branches, muscular branches, and the following cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 82,6) is of small internal' size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to £ranch"US the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (pp. 272 and 284). b. The external cutaneous branches, springing at the outer side of Tw° exter- the limb, are two in number : they are distributed in the integuments of the arm and forearm (p. 272). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply Branches to all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head arises in the triocps common with the internal cutaneous branch, and descends close to the idnar nerve to enter the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus, appear- nml an"