DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 620 is thin at the origin : ends in common tendon. Parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus internus arises from femur and adductor tendons; forms prominence above knee. Crureus has widest origin ; common ending; is deepest part of all. Common tendon above knee. Lay bare part below knee. Infrapatellar tendon inserted into tubercle of tibia; expansion over it. in comparison with its size. It takes origin from the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter ; then along the outer side of the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera ; and lastly to the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in flat tendon, which blends with those of the other portions in the common tendon. The vastus externus is the largest part of the quadriceps, and produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is partly covered by the rectus, tensor vaginae femoris, and gluteus maximus muscles. The deep surface rests on the crureus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The vastus internus (fig. 191, e) also has a narrow origin from the inner surface of the femur along the linea aspera and the pro- longation upwards of its inner lip, reaching as high as the small trochanter ; and in the lower half of the thigh from the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The fibres join an aponeurosis which blends in the common tendon, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The muscular mass is in part covered by the sartorius and rectus, but it projects between those muscles below. Some of the lower fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw the patella inwards. The crureus arises from the upper three-fourths of the anterior and outer surfaces of the femur, except where they are occupied by the vastus externus, and from the lower half of the external inter- muscular septum. Its fibres end, like the other parts, in an aponeurosis which enters into the common tendon. The rectus and vasti cover the crureus except for a small extent at its lower and hinder part. It lies upon the bone and the sub- crureus muscle. The common tendon resulting from the union of the foregoing is attached to the fore part of the upper border of the patella. It is oblong in shape, and about three inches long. A few fibres are prolonged over the front of the bone into the ligamentum patella?, which forms the continuation of the tendon. Dissection. To see the continuation of the tendon, and its insertion into the tibia, the student should divide along the middle line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aponeurotic layer, which is derived from the lower fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards the fibrous layer, the tendon will be exposed. The lower part of the common tendon, or ligamentum patellcc, is about two inches long, and is narrower and thicker than the part above the knee. It extends from the lower margin of the patella to the tujlercle of the tibia ; and a bursa separates it from the bone above itsi insertion. From the lower part of the vasti muscles a superficial aponeurotic