245 MAMMARY GLAND. The Mamma is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is of tllu situate on the lateral part of the front of the chest.* Eesting on the great pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispherical Forman<1 in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its pos lon' dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a In-east not enlarged by dimensions lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends froin the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the, side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six to and weight, eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises Position and the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This hippie :the prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring— the areola the areola, about an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced colour is by the complexion of the body, and becomes, darker duringaltered- pregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is ^°dgas provided with numerous papillaj and glands ; and on the surface are ° some small tubercles marldng the position of the latter. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in Jjjjf"^^ general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a compound racemose gland, and con- Structure sists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing masses of fat, surrounds the investing gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes; but between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septa fix the gland and fibrous to the skin, and support it ; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of ' Astley Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or alveoli at the ends of the most Vesicles, minute ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye. Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules anal lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts Lobules and forms a lobule, and by the union of the lobules the lobes are pro- loties' duced. Of these there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named Lactiferous from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where ducts' they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoir's (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become narrower; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another, to * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if the body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.