199 STRUCTURE OF TONS. divided along the line of the pyramid of the right side (fig. 56) may 1,0 expose be turned mil wards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of 10 res that body : and this set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper holder of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57, f). The deep transverse fibres may next be cut through outside the pyramidal tract (fig. 57), and the reticular formation will then be seen, in which deep longitudinal fibres ascend from the medulla (fig. 57, d). The transverse fibres of the ventral portion of the pons are derived Transverse from the crus or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. They are yentra°f mostly collected into two layers, superficial and deep (fig. 57), portion, which enclose the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid ; but some transverse fibres pass between the bundles of the pyramidal tract. The superficial fibres are nearly horizontal in the lower part of the pons, but the upper ones descend to join the cerebellar peduncle, and some are seen on the surface crossing obliquely over the lower fibres. The pyramidal fibres enter the pons below as a single mass, but in Pyramidal their passage upwards through the pons they are broken up by de- p^1" cussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much increased in number, they emerge at the upper border of the pons, and are continued into the superficial portion (crusta) of the crus cerebri. Scattered amongst the transverse fibres are numerous small Grey matter masses of grey matter (nuclei pontis) ; and fibres entering the pons ^,^u,vem by one cerebellar peduncle are believed to cross to the other side, supposed and there join nerve-cells in these nuclei, from which other fibres course of fibres take origin, and ascend with the fibres of the pyramid to the crus cerebri The reticular formation of the pons is formed 1 longitudinal Formatio fibres continued from the medulla oblongata (p. 197), and passing reticulans- upwards to the deep portion (tegmentum) of the crus cerebri (fig. 57, d), decussating with transverse fibres which are also derived from the peduncle of the cerebellum. It contains much interspersed grey matter; and near the floor of the fourth ventricle there are several nerve-nuclei, which will be referred to when that cavity is described. In the dorsal portion of the pons, as in the medulla oblongata, Raphe, there is a median raphe, formed mainly by the transverse fibres changing their direction as they cross the middle line. There is farther in the lower part of the pons, close behind the Superior deep transverse fibres of the ventral portion, and occupying a olive- position immediately above the olivary body, a small collection of grey matter to which the name of superior olivary nucleus is given.