314 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. arterie of C' Tw° SmaU dor$al arteries °f the thumb (c) arise opposite the thumb8 ° metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect, and fore d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial toger- edge of that digit. sheaths of The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more ligament completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, from with- and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most ex- ' ternal one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then comes a slender compartment for the extensor of the little Bones finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. thermions. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor miirimi digiti which is situate between the bones. To see Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical inci- suifiiKitor"f si°n> an(l reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone will be better understood, interosseous The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- nerve, form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. and inter- The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the muscles hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior perforat- ing arteries appear. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, wliich are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others. Dissection Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the of external ^oulder-ioint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz., sub- ligaments ot •> . . . ° . , shoulder. scapularis, supraspmatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint, shoulder- The Shouldeb-Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 93) is Sine of formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the