181 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. auditory ; anterior cerebellar: superior cerebellar, giving oflsets to velum ; niul posterior cerebral artery, branches <*( which are cortical, central. choroid. and posterior communi- cating. Part of brain sup- plied by vertebral arteries. Internal carotid ends in cerebral arteries. Branches. Posterior communi- cating. which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of them (9) gives an offset (auditory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. b. Kesembling the brandies of this set is the anterior cerebellar artery: tins arises from the basilar'trunk, and extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellar hemisphere, on which it is distributed. c The .superior cerebellar artery (8) is derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final I ranches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of the small brain, to which it is directed backwards, winding round the cms cerebri below the third, but parallel to the fourth nerve. The ramifications of the artery spread over the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the fold of the pia mater (velum interpositum) which projects into the cerebrum. d. The posterior cerebral artery C) takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nerve. Gaining the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere, it divides into branches (superficial or cortical) which supply the whole of the occipital lobe, and the lower and inner parts of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Its other offsets are the following :— Numerous small long branches (deep or central) leave the trunk close to its origin, and enter the posterior perforated space between the crura cerebri, to supply the optic thalami in the interior of the brain. A small choroid artery (posterior) passes between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositiun and choroid plexus. Near its origin it is farther joined by the posterior communicating artery of the carotid. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trunk, it appears that about half the cn- cephalon—viz., the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through these branches of the subclavian arteries. The internal carotid artery (') terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) internal to the anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure, of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearer the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the ophthalmic offset, before it ends in the following branches. a. The posterior communicating artery (G) is generally a small vessel, which is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons.