I'ISSKCTlOX OF THE ABDOMEN. apertures in it: abdominal ring. Use of botli muscles, acting from pelvis, and thorax; one muscle acting ; influence on abdominal cavity. In the linea alba the aponeuroses are united : below niid- dle is um- bilicus. External abdominal ring : form and situation; inner side or pillar; outer pillar; ( fascia pro- longed from margin ; objects passing through. Intercolum- nar fibres : Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves; and near the pubis is the large opening of the external abdominal ring (c), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and to the round ligament in the female. Action. Both muscles taking their iixed point at the pelvis will bend the trunk forwards ; but supposing the Bpine fixed, they will draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate the pelvis. Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk to the same side, or raise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attachment may be moveable ; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. The external oblique also acts powerfully with the other broad muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressure transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba (fig. 141). This white band on the front of the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which now projects beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a hollow indicated its position. External abdominal ring (fig. 137, c). This opening is situa**mear the pubis, between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and the apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. ' Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength. The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis pubis, where it decussates with the corresponding piece of the opposite side. The outer margin is stronger, and is curved, so as to form a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine. A thin membrane (inter- columnar fascia), derived from sonic fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis, covers the opening. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar fascia. Through this aperture an inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres run transversely on the surface of the