79 BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID. classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior set comprises branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz., superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior posterior, set are the occipital and posterior auricular brandies. And the and ascend- ascending set includes the ascending pharyngeal, temporal, and lug: internal rnaxillary arteries. Besides these, the external carotid gives other branches to the neighbouring muscles and the parotid gland. The arrangement of the branches of the carotid may be altered by change in their closer aggregation on the trunk. The usual number may be diminished by two or more uniting into one ; or it may be in- number creased by some of the secondary "offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. Directions. All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, Branches lingual and internal maxillary, may be now examined ; but those "re—Se6U three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The superior thyroid artery (e) arises near the great cornu of the Superior hyoid bone, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and thyi0ld stemo-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. This artery is superficial in the ,ias these anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid branch is very small, and runs inwards below the b1^nhy:oid hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to that bone, and ' anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. b. A sterno-mctstoid branch descends in front of the sheath of the to sterno- common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from muscle which it takes its name. c. The superior laryngeal artery pierces the membrane between the to larynx, hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to crico- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with the Membrane, corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid Accompany- body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into ing vein- the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery artery passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then beneath the submaxillary gland, under cover of which it makes a sigmoid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). From supplies the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz. :— a. The inferior or ascending palatine branch ascends to the pharynx to the beneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyn- pa,ate gens muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, which' it reaches by turning over the upper border of the superior constrictor muscle. Its place in the palate is frequently supplied by an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery.