571 INTERIOE OF THE BLADDEE. slightly united to the muscular layer ; and it is thrown into numer- has folds ous folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small J^g6^*' triangular space behind the urethral opening. Objects inside the bladder. Within the bladder are the following interim- of special parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the tliebla d<1- triangular surface (fig. 178). Orifices. At the lower part of the bladder is the orifice of the opening of urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane m'ethra' presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small elongated prominence below, uvula vesicae, occa- witll t]ie sioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous uvula, layers. This eminence is placed over the middle lobe of the pro- state ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half from the orifice of the urethra, and pl,eilinss oi . i i t . 'he ureters, ratner more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openmgs of the ureters (fig. 178). These tubes perforate the wall of the bladder oblkpiely, lying in it for the distance of three-cpiarters of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence of the subjacent muscular fibres. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra Trigone of is a smooth triangular surface, which is named trigone (trigonum the bladdor: vesica}; fig. 178). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side how from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, behind, bounded; between the openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with part corre- the triangular space externally at the base of the bladder, between externally, the vesiculaa seminales and vasa deferentia. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters will To expose come into view on the removal of the mucous membrane from the ureters! lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are 5t°f thus disposed ;—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube; while the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer. Blood-vessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins, have been detailed (p. 559). The veins; vessels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nerves of supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 565), are the bladder' derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the Lymphatics glands by the side of the internal iliac artery.