449 SHEATH OF RECTUS. aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The anterior layer of the sheath adheres closely to the tendinous intersections of the muscle. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the upper and lower end f^^^and of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the below. intervention of the sheath, which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, at, or somewhat above, a point midway between the umbilicus and pubis, the aponeurosis of the internal oblique ceases to split, and then passes altogether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses. When the rectus is raised, the termination of the hinder layer of the sheath is seen to be marked by a more or less distinct white bine, concave towards the pubis, which is termed the semilunar fold of Douglas: below this the rectus is in contact with the transversalis fascia. The linea transversa! (fig. 141) on the front of the sheath are Wnese t runs vcrsii* caused bv the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The most p • • are three or constant are three in number, and have the following position ; one more; is opposite the umbilicus, another at the lower end of the ensiform situation. process, and the third midway between the two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particidarly above and below. Linea semilunaris (fig. 141). This line corresponds with the Linea seilli- 11111*11*1 S outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the cartilage of the ninth is at edge of rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division reotus- of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The fyramidalis muscle (fig. 141) is triangular in fonn, and is Pyramidalia placed in front of the lower end of the rectus. It arises by its base rauscle: from the front of the pubis, and is inserted into the Linea alba below attach- the mid-point between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This smallinents' muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tense the linea alba ; and when large use. it may assist slightly the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nerves of the Abdominal Wall (fig. 140). Between the Nerves in internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal abdomen, nerves ; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz., the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will lie referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 453). The LOWER FIVE INTERCOSTAL NERVES (f f) enter the Wall of Intercostal the abdomen from the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two nerves deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge are between of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of the abdomen trawivw- near the middle line (p. 438). About midway between the spine salis; and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous ; p. 437) ; and while between the offsets, abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, and offsets of com- munication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, owing to the shortness of the inferior spaces. o o