641 BRANCHES OF THE SACRAL PLEXUS. below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg (p. 662). ends in the The branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are the follow- ing:— The ascending or gluteal cutaneous branches (fig. 194) turn upwards ascending round the border of the gluteus inaximus, and are distributed to the skin over the lower third of the muscle. The descending cutaneous branches (fig. 194,2) supply the integu- ^doending ments of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior cutaneous aspects. One of these branches (fig. 195,7), which is larger than the branches; others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior infertor^ pudendal (p. 425); as it courses to the perineum, it turns below the Pur°° a ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the thigh to end in the scrotum. The great sciatic (fig. 195,6) is the largest nerve in the body. Great sciatic It is the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous ™™^e Qf branches to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus (fig. 196, as). It is directed through the buttock to the back of course in niii the buttock * the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the "j!^™11?^11 buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip- ' 1S iegl0n- joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two large trimks at its origin, and one of them (the external popliteal) pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. The pudic nerve (fig. 195/) winds over the small sacro-sciatic Pudic nerve, ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perineum and the genital organs (p. 421). No branch is supplied to the buttock. Small muscular branches of the sacral plexus are furnished to Muscular the external rotators except the obturator externus. The branch to the pyriformis is seen in the dissection of the sacral to plexus in the pelvis (p. 564). pyriformis; The nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 197,5) arises from the to obturator upper part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the superiora1"1 small sacro-sciatic foramen with the pudic vessels : it gives off a gemellus; small twig to the superior gemellus ('). The nerve to the quadratus femoris (fig. 197,6) is a slender branch, toquadratus which passes with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the ^melius'01 obturator to the anterior surface of its muscle. This branch will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when offsets from it to the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint may be traced. Dissection. To see the remaining external rotator muscles, book clean rota- aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the tor muscIes- sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be separated from the tendon of the obturator internus. The superior gemellus (fig. 195, c) is the higher of the two Superior muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator gemellus- muscle. Internally it arises from the outer and lower part of t x