GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. 159 The size of the glottis differs in the two sexes; and its form |j^an^. undergoes frequent changes during life, caused by the movements of ormvaiy- the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords. In the male, the Lengthi interval measures nearly an inch (eleven lines) from before back- wards ; in the female, from eight to nine lines. Its breadth at the and breadth, base is about one-third of the length. The length of the glottis is increased by the stretching, and shortened by the relaxation of the vocal cords. In quiet breathing the glottis has the triangular form seen after Form death, the space being slightly widened in inspiration, and narrowed j,^^^^. in expiration. In forcible inspiration it becomes widely dilated, ration; the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages being directed out- j^^ation • wards, and the aperture accpoiring the form of a lozenge with the posterior angle truncated. The widest part is then opposite the junction of the vocal cords with the arytenoid cartilages, and its transverse measurement is about one half of the length. During in produc- vocalization the cords and the vocal processes of the arytenoid voice, cartilages are brought together, and the vocal glottis is reduced to a narrow chink, while the hinder part of the space is closed by the meeting of the anterior borders of the arytenoid cartilages. The glottis is rendered longer, and the vocal cords are tightened Muscles pro- by the crico-tbyroid muscles ; the opposite effect is produced by the changes in elasticity of the cords and the contraction of the thyro-arytenoid slottis- muscles. Widening of the glottis is effected by the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles ; and the cords and arytenoid cartilages are approximated by the thyro-arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and arytenoid muscles. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 42, a) is best seen on the left Ventricle, side. It is the boat-shaped hollow between the vocal cords, the upper margin being concave, and the lower nearly straight. It is Situation, lined by the mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. In its roof, towards the front, is the aperture of the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal pouch or sacculus laryngis (fig. 42, d), has been Pouch of laid bare partly on the right side, by the removal of the ala of the thyroid cartilage (p. 156), but it will be opened in the subsecpient dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, about half an inch long and rather Form and conical in form, which projects upwards between the false vocal positlon- cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, reaching as high as the upper border of the latter. Its cavity communicates with the fore part of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the deep Surrounding surface of the mucous lining are numerous small glands, the ducts parts" of which open on the inside. Its outer side is covered by the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The size and extent of the pouch vary greatly in different subjects. Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are Dissection evident on the left half of the larynx, but to show more fully ll^al the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and C°' detach on the right side the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle from its