DISSECTION OF ORBIT. 30 Dissection. The cotton wool beneath the eyelids should be taken How to open away, and the bone forming the roof of the orbit may be removed ^h saw in the following manner. Two vertical cuts are to be made with a saw through the frontal bone opposite the inner and outer edges respectively of the anterior opening of the orbit; and then with a chisel these are to be continued backwards along the roof of the chisel, orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone in- cluded between the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by and boue torccDS the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a narrow ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere with the dissection, should be likewise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit is now seen where it has been Periosteum detached from the bone in the dissection. This membrane forms a of orln sac around the contents of the orbit, which is continuous posteriorly with the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and is closed in front by the palpebral fascia passing from it to the lids (p. 31). It adheres but loosely to the bones, and is perforated behind by apertures for the passage of the vessels and nerves entering the orbit. On the sides, prolongations of the mem- brane accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little Periosteum- fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat at this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supraorbital artery are placed in the Position of centre ; the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall; e^sed. and the small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit: all these nerves are above the muscles in the cavity. The superior oblique muscle lies on the inner side, and is recognised by the fourth nerve enter- ing it; the levator palpebrse and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. At the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards Trace supor- to their exit from the orbit, and backwards, with the fourth nerve, floial nerves, through the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting anterior clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commence- ment. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball and the lachrymal gland, and Orbit has a great quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Con- ^dies • nected with the eye are six muscles—four straight and two oblique; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity.