SUBCLAVIAN . VEIN. 71 transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends on the front of the trachea to the innominate vein. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of the Superior I subclavian, and arching over the apex of the lung, passes downwards ^n™!*al in front of the neck of the first rib : its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery, Deep cervi- which passes backwards between the transverse process of the last ca cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips continued upwards from the erector spinse, to end beneath the complexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch is frequently given from the second part of the Spinal artery; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the ran intervertebral foramina. The subclavian vein is much shorter than the companion artery, Subclavian reaching only from the outer edge of the first rib to the inner border vem" of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the innominate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus. Branches. The subclavian vein is joined at the outer edge of the Its anterior scalenus by the external jugular vein, and sometimes also t>rano es • by the anterior jugular. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 28,9) ; opening of and at the like spot on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic JSctsmtl° duct ends (fig. 28, 8). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian Valves, trunk is placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein.* It should be borne in mind that occasionally the vein is as high Position in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that it may vary' has been seen in a few instances with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OP THE CERVICAL NERVES Spring Cervical from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear nerves- on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These Position and nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the nmuBer- cervical and brachial plexuses ; the upper four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. Close to their origin they are joined by offsets of communication from the sympathetic cord. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first First two two nerves, the peculiarities of which are noticed in Section XVIII. bom Brachial plexus (fig. 17). The lower four cervical nerves and Brachial the larger part of the first dorsal are blended in this plexus ; and a FqS i,y fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the «ve nerves, cervical plexus. Thus formed,- the plexus reaches from the neck to * See a paper on the Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin. Med. Journal of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.