PAETS ON FRONT OF THORAX. 243 front by the clavicle, behind and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapida. Continued downwards from about Interums- - cular de- pressions. the middle of the clavicle is a slight depression between the pectoral C1 and deltoid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and the sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps Arm: its muscle ; and on each side of that eminence is a groove, which and grooves, subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint. The inner of the two grooves is the deeper, and indicates the position of the brachial vessels. If the elbow-joint be semiflexed, the prominences of the outer Promi- and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, espe- around the cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it elbow-joint, by a slight interval, the head of the radius is placed ; it may be recognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin from Dissection the side of the chest and the arm-pit, over the great pectoral muscle integument, and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, carried along the clavicle for the inner two-thirds of that bone, is to be continued down the front of the arm rather beyond the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and then to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder fold of the axilla. From the ensiform process a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The .flap of skin thus marked out is to be reflected outwards Reflect skin, beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the same Fascia: structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not superficial; usually contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is the stronger deep fascia, which and deep, closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It is tliin on the front of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over thickest the ann-pit, will render evident its increased strength in this situa- overaxilla- tion, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. Dissection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to Dissection be next sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are "irS™' placed beneath the fat, which must be cut through to expose them ;the c,lest: and those over the clavicle lie also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (from the cervical plexus) cross the clavicle at from oervi- n 2 ca' l'loxns