THE SIGNAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. 412 posterior median, lateral, and pos- terior inter- mediate. 'Die cord is divided into antero- lateral column, its whole length, and penetrates about one-third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance bounds the fissure ; and at the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood-vessels. Along the back of the cord, also in the middle line, there is a narrow groove, from which a process of the pia mater called the posterior median septum extends forwards nearly to the centre of the medulla, separating the nervous substance of the right and left halves. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter in the septum. The lateral furrow (fig. 128, cl) is a shallow groove along the line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral grooves another slight furrow, the posterior intermediate, may be seen in the upper part of the cord (fig. 128, e). Divisions of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median sulci is divided into two by the lateral furrow (fig. 128, d) ; the part in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero - lateral column (a) ; and the part behind, the posterior column (6). The antero - lateral column (fig. 128, a) includes rather more than Fig. 128. two-thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (7c). This pail of the cord is sometimes described as consist- ing of anterior and lateral columns, the two being separated by the anterior roots of the nerves, posterior The posterior column (fig. 128, b) is situate between the lateral column, furrow (d), with the posterior roots of the nerves (J), and the with median posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior and external intermediate sulcus (e) marks off a small inner portion, which is named the posterior median column (c) ; and the remainder is then distinguished as the postero-external column (b). A narrow central piece, the commissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Cord con- Composition OF the cobd (fig. 128). A horizontal section of the sistsofgrey snows more distinctly its division into halves, with the parts, and com- missure. and white matter. * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition and divisions. In the middle line below is the anterior median fissure, and above are the posterior median groove and septum, d. The lateral sulcus, e. The posterior intermediate sulcus. Columns: a. Antero-lateral. b. Posterior external, c. Posterior median. Composition: g. Grey crescent, surrounded by white fibres, h. Grey transverse commissure, and f. Canal of the cord in if. j. Posterior, and *. Anterior root of a nerve entering the grey crescent.