DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 524 < Vntral tendon, like a trefoil leaf. Two pillars, with arch over aorta: arrange- ment of nines in each as they ascend to tendon: differences in the pillars. Two arched ligaments, internal and exter- nal. Apertures are :— For the aorta; its contents. For gullet and nerves. The central tendon (cordifonn tendon) occupies the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 165), and is surrounded by muscular fibres : tin: large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different directions. Inform it is com- pared to a trefoil leaf ; of its three lobes or segments the right (c) is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The pillars (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous pro- cesses (d and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are narrow and tendinous below, where they are attached to the ujjper lumbar vertebrae, but large and fleshy above; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other ; the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating with the fibres of the opposite cms between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other cms (d) may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phageal opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than, and in front of, that from the left. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The light (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebras, and' their intervertebral substances, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- brae. The left pillar (d) is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra : it is occasionally wanting. The arches (ligamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands on each side over the quadratus lumborutn and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (Kg. arcuat. internum ; /) is the stronger, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the quadratus lumborum (lig. arcuat. externum ; g) is only a thickened piece of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process to the last rib. Apertures. There are three large openings for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus ; with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta (k) is rather behind than in the dia- phragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. The opening for the oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves (i) is above and slightly to the left of the aortic aperture ; it is placed in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars as above explained.