CUTANEOUS NEEVES. 603 Fig. 188.* On the side of the knee the vein receives a communicating branch from the deep veins. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integu- ments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 618) accompanies the saphenous nerve and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and in greater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguinal. This nerve (p. 536) is small, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 187,1) ; it supplies the scrotum, and ends cn the adjacent part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. Genito-crural. The crural branch of this nerve (p. 536) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 188,6), rather ex- ternal to the line of the femoral artery. After or before the nerve has become su- perficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; and it extends on the an- terior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of the external cuta- neous nerve on the outer side of the limb. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 536) ramifies on the outer aspect of the limb (fig. 188,'). At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, wdiich arch backwards to supply the integuments of the outer side of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's liga- ment and is continued to the knee below the other ; it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the posterior surface are more numerous, and larger. Middle cutaneous (fig. 188,2). The nerve of the centre of the is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 622), and divides into two branches. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches Cutaneous arteries. Cutaneous nerves. Uio-iuguiiial is near scrotum. Genito-cru- ral leaches the middle of thigh: unusual state. External cutaneous, thigh posterior, and anterior branches. Middle cutaneous reaches thu knee. _* Cutaneous nerves on the front of the thigh. Middle cutaneous. 3.' Internal cutaneous. 4 Patellar branch of saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. hypogastric on the belly. 1. External cutaneous. 2. Internal saphenous. 5. 7. Ilio-inguinal. 8. Ilio-