683 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FRONT. •210.' Source of the cutane- ous nerves. A /i Musculo- cutaneous supplies most of the toes: integument as to the inside of the leg (p. 660). Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the little external toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch; and it is continued ' below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 660) Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 210). The super- ficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly from branches of the po- I pliteal trunks, viz., from the musculo-cutaneous 1 and anterior tibial nerves of the external popli- teal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the two popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (3) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contigu- ous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the far as the end of the last phalanx : The inner branch (3) sends one offset to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and another to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes : it communicates with the internal saphe- nous and the anterior tibial nerves. The outer branch (4) also divides into two nerves; these lie over the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve (x) becomes cutaneous in the first interosseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo- cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 203,'5) comes from the External back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the saPUenous foot to the outside of the little toe ; aU the outer margin of the°foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies both sides°of the little toe and part of the next. * Cutaneous nerves of the front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibial 2. Musculo-cutaneous, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer piece. 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Offsets of external popliteal. divides into inner and outer branch. Anterior tibial, where found.