LONG OCCTPITO-AXIAL LIGAMENT. 175 and two lateral odontoid; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a transverse band. Dissection (fig. 48). Supposing the neural arches of the cervical Dissection vertebra? to be removed except in the first two, the arches of these laments, vertebra? are to be sawn through close to the articular processes. Next, the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, by following upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, its continuation, the long occipito-axial Hgament, will be exposed. The long ox posterior occipito-axial ligament (l) is a strong flat band Long which continues upwards the i?osterior common ligament of the axial vertebra?. Its ivpper end is broad, and is attached to the upper ligament, surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, reaching outwards Fig. 49.* on each side as far as the insertion of the check ligaments. De- scending thence through the foramen magnum, and over the odon- toid process, it becomes somewhat narrower, and is inserted mainly into the back of the body of the axis, but many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into the posterior common ligament. Occasion- ally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament. Dissection (fig. 49). After the removal of the long occipito-axial Dissection ligament, by cutting through it transversely above, and reflecting yj™as~ it downwards, the student should define a strong band, the trans° V61Se verse ligament, which crosses the neck of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone, and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the odontoid ligaments, and odontoid which radiate from the process, the central one being a slender band ligaments, in the middle line, and the lateral, much stronger, passing nearly horizontally outwards. * Internal ligaments between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis, second view (tfourgery.) 1. Check ligament. 2. Transverse ligament, sending offsets tro- wards and downwards. 3. Cut end of long occipito-axial ligament.