399 SUBOCCIPITAL MUSCLES. the obliquus superior. It lies over the posterior arch of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn au<1 use- backwards. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The rectus capitis posticus minor (fig. 122, b) is a small S^^jJJfp. fan-shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Aris- ing close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior attach- arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and an impression below this. This muscle is deeper than the rectus major: it lies over the relations; posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other vertebra. Action. The rectus posticus minor extends the head. and use. The obliquus capitis inferior (fig. 122, c) is the strongest of Obliquus the suboccipital muscles. It arises from the spinous process of the infenor • axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower ^^cli- and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The inferior oblique is concealed by the coinplexus and trachelo- relations; mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occipital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating an<1 use- the atlas on the axis. The obliquus capitis superior (fig. 122, d) arises from the Obliquus transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the preceding ""P6"01 • muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted into the attach- outer part ol the space between the curved lines oi the occipital bone. The origin of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its relations; insertion beneath the complexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying and use backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will be inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle (fig. 122). This name is given to the small Triangular space which is bounded below by the obliquus inferior muscle, and tween the above by the rectus posticus major on the inner side, and the musoles: obliquus superior on the outer sifie. It is covered by the com- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small contents, part of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the sub- occipital nerve. * Transverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral groove by the Tnmsverso- side of the spinous processes is a long muscular mass, which extends sPinalcs: from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of slips which are directed obliquely from tranverse or articular pro- arrange- cesses to spinous processes, and are therefore designated collectively ment' transverso-spinales. The slips differ in length, and form three layers, which are described as separate muscles, viz., a superficial and sub- stratum of long slips, confined to the cervical and dorsal regions— Uivisi,ms-