CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 465 Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upwards and in- ™sukn°[ng wards to loosen the constricting hand in the neck of the tumour, vessels iu there will not he any vessel injured unless the cut should he made reeular so lon<* as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small puhic hranch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same j^di"e?°" view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But tion of in some few instances (once in ahout eighty operations, Lawrence) them- the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front, and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will he before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal Definition, column behind, and the muscles stretching from the thorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), an(j con_ and* contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with tents, vessels and nerves. Dissection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remainder Dissection of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be cut, along the abdomen left side of the linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This cavity is the largest in the body. It is is largest ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and down wards, so that it the'bod" • measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is ov , is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm ; below by the Boundaries recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles, and by the other jjjjj,™and structures closing the outlet of the pelvis: both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and in front and partly muscular ;— thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the on sides> bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other; but between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles which have been examined. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous and behind, to it, viz., the psoas and the quadratus luinborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced Depth is by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished actio^of7 by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- diaphragm tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavity is restored to ani! l6Vat°r its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. h li