91 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. as far as the neck of the jaw, and then upwards with the temporal pes beneath artery in front of the ear. Its ramifications on the head areiaw' described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the and supplies 10 * branches following :— a. Brandies of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to the to the meatus from the nerve beneath the neck of the jaw, and enter that ' * tube between the cartilage and bone. b. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises joint of near the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to thejaw' meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the tragus and adjacent the ear, and part of the pinna. d. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, parotid; e. Communicating brandies with the otic ganglion. One or two to join otic filaments pass between the otic ganglion and the beginning of the ganglion auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 146). /. Brandies to the facial nerve. Two considerable branches pass and facial forwards round the superficial temporal artery to join the upper trunk of the facial nerve. The inferior dental (7) is the largest of the branches of the £*™j0r inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the dental nerve is placed behind and external to the lingual, is between and lies at first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it after- ^^fe°ld wards rests on the internal pterygoid, and near the dental foramen on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the then in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisorJaw' and a mental branch. Only one offset (to the mylo-hyoid muscle) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the bone. Its branches and supplies are : — a. The mylo-hyoid nerve arises near the dental foramen, and is branch continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the hyoTd,10" jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar dental and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the g^nn$ng to nerve may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor branch is small and continues the direction of the and cutting nerve onwards to the middle line, furnishing offsets to the canine teeth' and incisor teeth, below which it lies. d. The mental or labial branch (fig. 9, 13) is in size the continua- branch to tion of the dental trunk, and issues on the face beneath the depressor lower Up- of the angle of the mouth. It gives one offset downwards to the integument of the chin ; but the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, to be distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Its branches communicate with the supramaxillary portion of the facial nerve. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw, has a Dental similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies off- artery