SUPERIOR CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. 3-55 descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag course; about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the pbrenic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side are the relations innominate artery and the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. "When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined branches by the large azygos vein of the thorax (k) ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are two in number, right and left; and Brachto- each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle by the junction of veins: the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Below, they are united in the superior cava. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their relations to surrounding parts. The right vein (h) is about one inch long, and descends almost right, vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the opposite vein. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is nearly three inches in length, and is directed and left; obbquely to the right, along the upper border of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the nerves descending over the arch. The branches of the veins are nearlv alike on the two sides. Each *neir. branches. receives the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the inferior thyroid of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by the superior intercostal, and some small thymic and pericardial veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, |°™e*iin®3 but descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct separately opening in the right auricle. When such a condition exists, the J^^116 right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung; but the left vein descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch generally connects the two above the arch of the aorta. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very early period of the growth of the foetus ; and the two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. Change of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during foetal growth, to produce the usual arrangement in the adult, concern arc changed the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. First a lnt0 one' cross branch is formed between the two trunks, and this enlarging gives rise to the left innominate vein. Then the left trunk below the cross branch dis- appears at its middle, and undergoes transformation at each end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into a part of the superior intercostal vein, and coro- At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus; nar>' sinus and the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult formed- (p. 340) is a remnant of the trunk as it lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a trace of the occluded vessel in the form of a small fibrous band in the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 337). A A 2