BRANCHES OF TEMPORAL ARTERY. 81 the posterior root of the zygoma, it divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches which are distributed over the termination. front and side of the head (p. 5). Before dividing the artery gives off the following branches :— a. Parotid brandies are furnished to the gland of the same name ; Branches articular twigs to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and muscular to Scuil'- branches to the masseter. iioa> b. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and ami to ear. meatus of the external ear. c. The transverse facial branch leaves the temporal artery close to Branch to its origin, and is directed forwards over the masseter muscle (p. 28) ;face" on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. cl. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and Branch to pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the tern- muscle* poral muscle: it anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. e. A small orbital branch runs forwards between the layers of the and fascia, temporal fascia, and is distributed to the superficial structures near the eye (fig. 2, h); this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and lies Temporal with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined vein- by the middle temporal vein; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt to preserve it. Suction VJ. l'TERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath Contents of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillary tho ruK'°"- articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Direction. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bone, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully, the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through and turned back- wards, and the fascia cleaned off the surface of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let it be removed The masseter (fig. 6,'°) arises by a flattened tendon from the Masseter lower border of the zygomatic arch, including a small portion of the m^ole: