499 GLANDS OF SMALL INTESTINE. included the crypts of KeberMhn, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. . The crypts of Lieberkiihn are minute simple tubes, which exist Sunpl* throughout the small intestine. They open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but they are not to be recognised with the naked eye white Solitary follicles: size and situation The so-called solitary glands (fig. 155, b) are roundish eminences, about the size of mustard-seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest num- ber in the ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the valvulse conniventes, they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and are surrounded at their circumference by apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These small bodies are nodides of lymphoid tissue. The agminated glands or glands of Peyer (fig. 154) exist chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which measure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in ■width. They are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number ties7 and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower end of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The patches are most distinct in young persons, and generally disappear in old age. The mucous membrane over them is hollowed into pits (fig. 154, b), and is generally destitute of villi (fig. 155, a) ; but between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. These patches are simply collections of lymphoid nodules of the j:?™1108'" same nature as the " sobtary glands." The Glands of Brunner are small compound bodies, similar to the g^^8 "f buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist in the duodenum. r or" For a distance of one or two inches near the pylorus they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp-seed. Dissection. To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats How to see of the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out is to inflated forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few number; peculiari- i the areolar ue tissue. * Patch of Peyer's glands, four times enlarged (Kolliker). a. Surface of the raucous membrane covered with villi, b. Pits over the follicles where the villi arc absent. K K 2