DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. nearest phalanges of the toes are short synovial folds, one to each, as in the hand ; and the one fixing the flexor perforans is anterior (p. 300). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines with the short flexor in bending the first and second joints. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in con- sequence of its oblique position in the foot. The lumbricales (fig. 207, d) are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Be- coming tendinous, they pass upwards on the tibial side of the four outer toes, and are inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the first phalanx ; but they often end partially in an attachment to the side of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These small muscles assist in flexing the metatarso- phalangeal joints ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the two inter- phalangeal joints. The accessorius muscle (fig. 207, a) has two heads of origin :— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the outer surface of the os calcis, and to the long plantar ligament; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon going to the second, third and fourth digits (Turner). The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the muscles of the first layer conceal it. Action. By means of its offsets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes; and from its position on the outer side of, and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward pull of that muscle, and enable it to bend the toes directly backwards. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis (fig. 207, c) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum: taking a straight course to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process, which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes (Turner). Beneath the internal annular ligament this tendon lies in a groove on the back of the astragalus : in the foot it first occupies a similar groove on the under surface of the sustentaculum tali, and then lies- over the flexor brevis hallucis. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page 666. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the common