354 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Innominate artery ends in carotid and sub- clavian : relations. Left com- mon caro- tid: relations in the thorax. Left sub- clavian artery: course and relations in the chest. The great veins are :- Vena cava .superior: formed by innominate and supply the neck, the Lead, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large trunk of the innominate artery (6) : close to it is the left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left subclavian (d). The innominate artery (brachio-cephalic; 6), the first and largest of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, it divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right common carotid and subclavian arteries. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (g), and lies behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origins of the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the airtube. To its right is the innominate vein of the same side (Ji). Usually no lateral branch arises from this artery. Left common carotid artery (c). The common carotid artery of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left sterno- clavicular articulation, but not so close as the innominate to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein (</), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but afterwards inclines to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. The LEFT subclavian artery (d) ascends to the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax, and then curves outwards between the scaleni, where it has the same relations as the vessel of the right side (p. 68). The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the level of the first rib. In the thorax it is deeply placed, near the spine. To its inner side is at first the trachea, and after- wards the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. On its outer side it is invested by the left pleura ; and the left innominate vein crosses in front of the vessel as it enters the neck. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. The relations of the first part of the left subclavian artery in the neck are given on p. 116. Veins (fig. 108). In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 340), there are the superior and inferior cavse, and the pulmonary veins ;—the former are the'great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle of the heart; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle. The superior or descending cava (/) results from the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed behind the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum. From that spot the large vein