63 STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID. Glands in the space. Two large glandular bodies, the sub-maxil- Glands; lary (fig. 16,") and thyroid (12), have their seat in this triangular space ^"iaxil~ of the neck. The submaxillary gland is placed altogether in front of the vessels, and is partly concealed by the jaw : beneath it, on the surface of the mylo-hyoid, is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, and thyroid between it and the common carotid artery, lies the thyroid body body- beneath the sternothyroid muscle : in the female this body is more largely developed than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would Parotid be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the gland* jaw and the mastoid process, and projects somewhat below the level of the jaw. Its relations have been noticed at p. 28. Several lymphatic glands, belonging to the deep cervical group, Lymphatic lie along the internal jugular vein, under cover of the sterno-glands- mastoid muscle ; and another set of smaller glands (submaxillary lymphatic glands) is placed below the base of the jaw. Directions. The student has to proceed next with the examination of the individual parts that have been referred to in the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. This vein lies near the middle line Anterior of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of develop- •'usular vcin ment of the external jugidar. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends outwards beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, to open into the external jugular, or into the subclavian vein. In the neck the anterior and joins exter- external iujmlar veins communicate. There are two anterior veins, ""'jugular vein one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. In many subjects the lower part of the anterior jugular vein is joined by a considerable branch which runs downwards, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the facial vein. The STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE (fig. 15, ') foriUS the Super- Sterno-mas- ficial prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower in the *old muscle centre than at the ends, and arises below by two heads of origin which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner has its head is fixed by a narrow tendon to the anterior surface of the °fisin at first piece 01 the sternum ; and the outer head has a wide fleshy and clavicle, attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, and the external almost vertically, and join about the middle of the neck in a flattened belly. Near the skull the muscle ends in a and inser- broad tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at the outer tionatsk,lU- aspect from tip to base, and by a thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into two Position to triangular spaces. On its cutaneous aspect the sterno-mastoid is otll6r parts- covered by the integuments, the platysma and the deep fascia, and is crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. If the muscle be cut through