DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 266 Teres minor : origin ; insertion : parts around it; and use. Teres major origin ; insertion ; relations. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves it Use on swinging and fixed limb. Spaces be- tween the teres; anterior and posterior. Dissection of ligaments of the cla- vicle, The teres mikor (fig. 78, c) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often united inseparably with the preceding muscle. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula from a special impression along the upper two-thirds of the axillary border of the bone, and from an inter- njtascular septum on each side ; and it is inserted by a tendon into thfe lowest of the three, marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy fibres into the bone below that spot—about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid : it rests on the long head of the triceps and the shoidder-joint. Underneath it the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns Action back ; the arm benT§fcaised, the teres depresses the humerus. The teres major muscle (fig. 78, d) passes from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from an oval surface behind the inferior angle of the scapula, from the lower half of the axillary border of thmbone, and %om the intermuscular septum between it and the teres mror. The nqtoes end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus (fig. 72). The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the latissimus dorsi, which covers the teres behind at its origin, and in front at its insertion. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus : the two are separated above by a bursa; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa is frequently present between the teres and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs it is ffirried back behind the trunk, and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The hiunerus being raised, the muscle depresses and adducts^t. "With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower angle of the scapula to move forwards. Below the scapula, where the teres muscles separate from one another, is a triangular interval^ which is bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and below by the teres minor and major (fig. 78). This space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, which is of a quadri- lateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels (a) and the circumflex nerve (') pass; and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 79). Before sawing through the acromion process to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the ligaments of the scapula and clavicle should be examined. A strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle : on removing the areolar tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, differing in size, and in the direction of the fibres.