BOUNDARIES OF THE PERINEUM. 417 through and around the opening are some dilated veins (haemor- rhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will ^"g^ be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with as those of the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits may Jj^J of be seen on a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire; and the student should trace on the body the several boundaries with his finger. In front is the symphysis pubis ; and at the back is the tip of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the portion of the hip-bone which bounds the subpubic arch, viz., from the pubic symphysis to the ischial tuberosity; and farther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity to the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included within the boundaries above Form of the said is rather heart-shaped, owing to the projection of the coccyx nl'easure"1 behind; and it measures over the surface about four inches from meats, before backwards, and three and a half inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perineum from the surface to the floor Depth of may be said to be generally about three inches between the anus the space" and the ischial tuberosity, but this measurement varies greatly in different bodies; and it amounts to about an inch at the fore part, between the pubic bones. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to A line be- the corresponding point on the other will divide the perineal space hTbeTosities into two parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the root of the divides it penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nerves. °' The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OK THE SPACE. This portion of the perineal space contains the lower end of the Contents rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting j* ,afnal on the anus. The gut does not occupy, however, the whole of the ' interval between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the and t,,eir ischiorectal fossa, in which is contained much loose fat, with the yosSon. vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection (fig. 132). The skin is to be raised from this part of Dissection the perineum by the following cuts:—One is to be made across the perineum at the front of the anus, and is to extend rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-line, and around the anus. The flaps of the skin thus marked out are to be raised and thrown out- wards from the middle line : in detaching the skin from the margin E E