127 CAVITY OF THE PHARYNX. mucous lining of the cavity, of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the soft Fauces, palate is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The isthmus faucium (h) is the narrowed aperture of coinmunica- Isthmus of lion between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by t1'"fauces" the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size varies with the move- ments of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. The aperture of the larynx (n) is wide in front, where it is Upper bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the aryte- ^yn"" ° noid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the cornicula laryngis, and by the aryte- noid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagus (o) is the narrowest part of the Beginning of pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth cervical ces°1'iasu°" vertebra. At this spot the mucous membrane in the cesophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The cavity of the pharynx is divided into three parts, which Subdivision differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food pharynx7 °' and air. The upper or nasal portion is limited below by the softiuto nasa'> palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives passage only to air, and is always open. The middle or oral portion extends downwards to oral, the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only and laryn- transmits food; its walls are naturally in contact, except during films1'0'' the act of deglutition. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati, q) is a moveable Soft palate structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either mouthV ' close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the communication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual surfaces, position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior surface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth ; while the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard borders; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. The lower border from it is free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part hanKsuvula- —the uvula (p). Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative ol the original separation into two halves.