LEFT SIDE OF NECK. 11$ Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid branohos of hody, together with the middle cardiac nerve. distribution, The thyroid brandies ramify around the inferior thyroid artery, thyroid and end in the thyroid hody ; they join the external and recurrent r 1B8' laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across middle the subclavian artery; its termination in the cardiac plexus will he nerve. learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The inferior cervical ganglion is of large size hut irregular Inferior in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the trans- gans1,on verse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in front ^ ot of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. Connecting brandies join the last two cervical nerves. Other Branches t» nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the vertebral plexus 1^™as anti around it, and communicating with the cervical nerves. vertebral artery Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues and inferior from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery,c ardiac- joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of Directions, the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. _ Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the Directions, differences between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the Dissection anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The ?rfiaa"gf0ri0°fr description of the right side (pp. 58 to 65) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoid, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to he of Walenl, learnt. The dissection and description of the muscles on the right S&Sly • side (pp. 65 to 67) will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct arches over the part of the subclavian artery of thoracic internal to the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a duot' i 2