ARTICULATIONS OF THE LARYNX. 167 Fig. 44.* movements. Crico- arytenoid joint and ligament. thyroid cartilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-thyroid articulation is formed between the inferior cornu Crico- of the thyroid and the lateral articular facet of the cricoid cartilage. jomt°ld A capsular ligament, which is thickest behind, and lined by syno- vial membrane, surrounds the articulation. This joint allows of a slight degree of slidin" movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by which the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or de- pressed. (See the action of the crico- thyroid and thyro-arytenoid muscles.) Crico-arytenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a synovial joint surrounded by a loose cap- side. To the inner side of the joint there is a well marked crico-arytenoid ligament, Avhich passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the ary- tenoid, and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards and inwards, or downwards and out- wards, to a slight extent on the oblicpie articular facet of the cricoid; but its principal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating the vocal cords and narrowing the glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and the capitulum Arytenoid there is sometimes a synovial joint, but the two cartdages are most capitulum. frequently united by connective or fibro-cartdaginous tissue. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (p. 160). Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic band, thyro-epiglottidean Two liga- ligament, connects the lower extremity of the epiglottis to the ~ thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upper border of the latter (fig. 42); and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, hyo-epiglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. Movements : gliding and rotation. ments of epiglottis. * Yiew of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Ary- tenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane.