745 COCHLEAR PASSAGES. m b) reaches from the lower (tympanic) edge (c) oi the lamina includes / . . v • f, i t basilar mcui- spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is nxeel by brane a fibrous band—Ugamentum spirale (4). Its width varies, for near audspiral the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube ; gamB but at the apex, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. Scaije OP THE cochlea (fig. 238). The tube of the cochlea is Scalasof divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is tear taba: the scala t ijmpani (s £), and the other scala vestibuli (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut off from it by membrane. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli position ; (s v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they communi- extent; cate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, they end joined differently, as the names express;—the scala vestibuli opens intoaove' the front of the vestibule (fig. 236, g) ; but the scala tympaui is Wiate shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochleae, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into they differ the apex of the cochlea ; while the tympanic scala is largest near ana SjZe. the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins at an opening close to the lower end of the opening in scala, and ends at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scaloe are clothed Avith a thin fibrous membrane, continuous lining with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close membrane' the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scalsc. tents.0"" Canal ok the cochlea. In the upper division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 239,1) extends obliquely across from the ^"^^ upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner 1 under of the basilar linibus, to the outeT wall of the cavity a little above the spiral raemljraue ligament. This is called the membrane of Reimmer, and separates a and mem- small cavity named the canal or duct of the cochlea (c c) from the scala Ressner • vestibuli (sv). The canal thus formed extends from apex to base of the cochlea, and contains a fluid—endolymph. Above, it reaches into joined by the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube saccule (canalvi revmens; fig. 240, c) with the saccule in (lie vestibule. below; Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is the complicated structure known as the organ of Gorti (fig. 239), in contains which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. Cw-ti. ° Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 240). Lodged in the vestibule The mem- are two membranous sacs, the utricle and saccule, from (he former {jJbjSnth of which tubular offsets are continued into the semicircular canals, consists of These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, ^ccule, which have been referred to above, make up the membranous semicircular labyrinth. The sacs and their prolongations ;ire immersed in the cochlear"1 canal.