341 VEINS OP THE . HEART. to be and at it different veins will be seen exception of the oblique vein valve of the right auricle. The left coronary or great the apex of the heart, first ascends and then turns to the back in the guarded by valves, with the right end is the Thebesian cardiac vein, beginnin in the sulcus between in front near Jgr interventricular groove, the left auricle Small coro- llary vein and ventricle, to open into the coronary sinus (fig. 103,4). It receives branches, mainly from the left side of the heart, in its course; and its ending in the sinus is marked by a ' Fig. 103.* double valve. The right coronary vein (3) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo - ventricular groove to the right end of the coro- nary sinus. The posterior cardiac veins (ft) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coro- nary sinus ; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior in- terventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are tliree or four in number, and run upwards on the front of the right ventricle to open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. Smallest cardiac veins. Other small veins lie in the substance the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac xekves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) beneath the arch of the aorta, from which offsets proceed to accompany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this plexus is deeply placed, and will be dissected at a later stage, hut a superficial prolongation may now be seen. The superficial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, Superficial to the right of the ductus arteriosus. The nerves joining it are the txus left superficial cardiac of the sympathetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus (p. 357), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion is sometimes seen in the plexus, ends in Inferiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary artery to the "£!y.coro" heart. A few filaments run on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. Anterior cardiac veins. of Smallest veins. Nerves of heart. * Back of the heart with its veins and the coronary sinus. (Marshall.) a. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the appendix, c. 1. Coronary sinus. 2. Oblique vein. 3. Right coronary vein. 4. Left or great coronary vein, tt Pos- terior cardiac veius ; the larger one on the right is the middle cardiac vein.