LIGAMENTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. 173 arches of the upper two vertebrae, to which special ligaments are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebra to each Special other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and ll°ai!ie"t!5 others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are fibrous membranes, between which connect the axis to the atlas, aud the latter to the occipital vertebra bone in front aud behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the ^l'bone'1"" articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be , examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. The anterior atlaato-axial ligament (fig. 46, 3) consists of a mem- ^mlnt branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body between of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged atlas and from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- axis' ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 46) resembles the and between foregoing, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, occipital immediately in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior arch of the atlas. Its central part is also thickened, and is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 47, l) is a thin broad Posterior membrane, the deep surface of which is intimately united to the ten dura mater. It is attached above to the hinder maroin of the occipital foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and below to the posterior atbsmi arch of the atlas. Behind the upper articular process of the atlas it forms an arch over the groove of the bone in this situation, * External ligaments in front between the occipital bone, atlas, ami axis (Bourgery ) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas internal to which is the anterior occipito-atlantal hgament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas