DISSECTION OP THE TELVIS. 552 Section III. Contents of the female pelvis, ami their situation. Use descrip tion of male pelvis for muscles and I'asciie. Then clean the viseera of the female pelvis. Reflections of the peri- toneum. Broad liga- ment of the uterus, RELATIONS OF THE VISCEEA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the rectum and the Madder, with the ureters and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine he the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the-bladder and the urethra. Thus, there are three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz., the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum ; and all are directed downwards to the surface. Directions. The description in Section I (p. 539) is to be used for instructions respecting the removal of the hip-bone, and the distension of the viscera ; also for the muscles of the pelvic outlet and the anatomy of the fasciae. After the student has learnt the muBcles aud the fascia (p. 541), which are nearly alike in both .sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of the uterus, raise it up with a piece of string passed through the upper end. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton-wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be followed on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the bladder. , Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one another at the lower part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming behind it the nieso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the back of the vagina and uterus. It covers the posterior, and most of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder with- out again touching the vagina : on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed forwards it may be observed to cover the upper surface of the bladder, and the lateral surface above the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The broad ligament of the uterus (fig. 171) passes from the side of I lie uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ. By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an