389 SERRATI POSTIOI MUSCLES. Fig. 1-20.* relations. * The serrati muscles are very thin, and receive their name Serrati arc from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebrae. *The serratus posticus superior (fig. 120, a) arises from the liga- g^Jgg".. mentum nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, with the supraspinous liga- ment. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted attach- by slips into four ribs, from the second to the fifth, external to their singles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is co- vered by the rhomboidei «xcept at its upper border. * The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 119, g) is wider than the preceding •muscle. Its aponeurosis ■of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is connected to the spinous processes of the last two ■dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae. The fleshy fibres ascend isomewhat to be inserted into the last four ribs outside their angles, each ■.successive piece extending farther forwards than the ■one below. This muscle lies on the relations, mass of the erector spinae ; and with the upper border of its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are inspiratory muscles. The upper one use of raises the ribs into which it is inserted ; while the lower one draws serratl- backwards the lower ribs, and prevents their being carried upwards by the contraction of the diaphragm. The vertebral aponedrosis is a thin fascia which covers the vertebral fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is ^g™u" attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Externally it is fixed to the angles of the ribs ; and in the intervals between the attach- bonee it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the intercostal ments • * Part of the third and fourth layers of the muscles of the back. a. Serratus posticus superior, n. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, n. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. e. Longissimus dorsi. p. Spinalis dorsi. insertion ;