610 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Tumour, how known, Place of stricture. How to cut the external and the internal stricture. Diagnosis. This hernial tumour is generally smaller than inguinal, and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia. Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the saphenous opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's ligament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumour at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the thick- ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bare, as if there was an external stricture ; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all resisting bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened; and a director having been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two lines. The several vessels that may be wounded in at- tempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 465. Scarpa's triangular space. Triangular space. Clean out Scarpa's space. Follow vessels, seek nerves, take away fat. Contents, extent, hase and sides, roof and floor. This hollow is situate on the front of the thigh, and lies beneath the superficial depression observed near Poupart's ligament. Dissection (fig. 190). The space will appear on removing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away; and the femo- ral vessels are to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels clean the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, together with the branches of an artery (pro- funda), which are buried in the fat. In removing the fat from be- neath the femoral artery, the student is to look for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. Scarpa's triangle (fig. 190) is an intermuscular space contain- ing the trunks of the blood-vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, with lymphatics and fat. It extends commonly over the upper third of the thigh ; but the length varies with the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament; externally it is bounded by the inner border of the sartorius ; and internally by the inner border of the adductor longus. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the integuments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes backwards on each side towards the middle ; it is constructed externally, where it is of small extent, by the conjoined psoas and