MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 151 resembles " a slipper turned xipside clown " (Zaglas). This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The genio-glossus (fig. 38, a) enters the tongue vertically by the Genio- side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to end in the ftotongiic; submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected into transverse lamina? as they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on , the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is pro- ntoes°Sjen0r longed from them, beneath the p. 3g „ hyo-glossus, to the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical b section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARYNGEO-GLOSSUS, or the 'J^^^^^^^^^^^Sk Constrictor fibres of the upper constrictor at- \gbp^pr..--s: jjj^fjjjjpSB tongue tached to the side of the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each half of the intrinsic tongue, viz., transversalis, a superior and an inferior lingualis, and a musoles- set of perpendicular fibres. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lingualis f^^j0W on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, a) may be shown on the left side, J{^nj.s^pe* by taking the thin mucous membrane from the upper surface from gualis," tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting then trans- away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles versa1'3, already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior lingualis and the genio-glossus, after the former muscle has been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as Trace the well as the part will admit; but a fresh specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The transversalis muscle (fig. 38, c) forms a horizontal layer Transver- in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are zontah h°n' attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed Attach- thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their ments. insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow Fibres in the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-lamin£B- glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles Use. * Transverse section of the tongue. A. Genio-glossus. b. Septum lingua?, o. Transversalis. d. Inferior lingualis. (After Zaglas.)