SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The branches of the lower six ganglia are larger and much whiter th^eXt and are united to form visceral or of the abdomen: these are three m number (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the # diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots appa- ently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third- ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebrae, it pierces the fibres of the eras of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar gang- lion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly through the cms of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the cceliac artery. The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion, and accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm; in the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place is then taken by an offset of the preceding. 369 of lowor six, large, aud form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion.; small splanchnic to eoeliae plexus; smallest splanchnic to renal plexus. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, soft parts with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a ^ou"^™fx thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostals. The base of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The subcostal muscles are small slips of Heshy fibres, which Subcostals are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- 1>0!'ition' costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise * Scheme to illustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) «. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, e. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. g. Ganglia on the cord. k. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. B B