297 ULNAR ARTERY IN PALM. flexor tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a tibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of the first and second varies in phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band (vaginal tlllcUliess> ligament; e and /) which is almost tendinous in consistence; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered aud oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be has a s'yrio- lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vl s'lc' vascular folds (vinculo, vasculosa) between the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the Dissection, digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. Palmar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 87). In the palm Superficial of the hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the arch: thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the forefinger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the superficial palmar arch (d). Its position in convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the tlie « ' pabn would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial, being covered for the most relations, part only by the integuments and the palmar fascia; but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venae comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital Brandies: arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small deep branch arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The deep or communicating branch (profunda ; fig. 88, b) passes to join the backwards with the deep part of the ulnar nerve, between the deop avch' abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inoscvdate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (p. 304). b. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both four digital sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. branches; The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, lying over the three inner interosseous spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches these join from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side deeS"'0 of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the palm. From the point of bifurcation the arteries extend along the sides terminati of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of opposite n"^.*. sides unite in an arch, from the convexity of which offsets proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Branches are furnished to the on