521 VAS DEFEEENS. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it will then measure twenty length and feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is about -^tb. of auo- an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the "lobus minor; but it increases again as it approaches the vas deferens. The vas deferens (fig. 164, k) begins opposite the lower end of Vasdefc. the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis, reus: At first the excretory duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends over the hinder part of the oom.se to testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the urethra; blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal ring; here it bends downwards round the epigastric artery (p. 452), and is then continued over the bladder (p. 550), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of lenetn antl this part of the excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of size! its canal about ^th of an inch. . Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the v abeiTails epididymis, there is frequently a small, narrow, CBeeal appendage, the frequently vas aberrans of Haller (fig. 164, I). It is convoluted, and projects g^^";*,, upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it Is uncoiled. Its capacity an(1 aize is greatest at the free end. Structure. The excretory duct of the testis has a thick muscular ™ • n lliree coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- form the nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, Mrou/ like whip-cord. On a section its Avail is dense and of a rather yellow colour : it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres , ° a muscular, ■arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the . straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated mucous, portion. Organ of Giraldes. In the spermatic cord of the fcetus and child, 0l. au of sometimes in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may Giraldfcs: be recognised, which is named after its discoverer the organ of Giraldes, or the ■paradidymis (Waldeyer). It consists of several remains of small masses of convoluted tubules, which appear to be remnants of Wolffian the lower part of the Wolffian body. 0 y' Blood-vessels and nerves of the testicle. The branches of the Spermatic ■spermatic artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and enter the artery- posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. The spermatic vein results from the union of branches issuing spermatic vein.