POSTERIOR CERYTCAL VESSELS. cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes, after perforating the upper ones splenius, serratus superior, rhomboideus, and trapezius muscles. JJ£face, Tlie lower Jive or six are much smaller, and end in the multifidus spina?. * In the loins. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar Lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus Sf^ed int spina?. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they two- resemble the lower dorsal nerves, cutaneous offsets being furnished bv the external set of branches. ' * The external branches pass to the erector spina?, and supply it J^™' and the intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector 1ranc es" spina?, and become cutaneous after perforating the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum. The branch of the last nerve is connected nretttree with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset cutaneous, near the bones. * The internal branches are furnished to the multifidus spina? internal muscle. They are difficult to find, being contained in grooves on branches- the upper articular processes. * Vessels in the back. The vessels now dissected are the Vessels, occipital and the deep cervical arteries, a small part of the vertebral, and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the artenes. The occipital artery (fig. 122, a) courses along the occipital Part of the bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is artery1*1 directed backwards under the sterno-mastoid, the splenius, and usually the trachelo-mastoid, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid it becomes superficial, and ascends to the occiput, where it is dis- tributed (p. (5). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and gives the which following branch to the neck :— gives a The cervical branch (b) distributes twigs to the splenius and cervical - trapezius, and passing beneath the complexus, anastomoses with the ran vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery (fig. 122, c) lies ontheneural arch of the Part; of the atlas, behind the articulating process, and appears in the interval artery™' between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surrounding muscles, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The deep cervical artery (fig .122, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervi- intercostal of the subclavian (p. 71). Passing back between the ^ artery' transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the tirst rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. * The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES (p. 364) Dorsal pass back between the vertebra? and the ascending costo-transverse ^uttoto™ ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. * The internal branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus inner and