THE MEDIASTINUM. 333 together. The partition is artificially divided into four parts, wliich are distinguished as the superior, anterior, middle, and posterior mediastina. The superior mediastinum is the portion of the septum above the Superior pericardium, and may be defined as bounded below by a plane ™numV extending from the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal boun<iarjeS( vertebra to the junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum. It is limited in front by the manubrium with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and behind by the upper four dorsal vertebrae and the lower ends of the longi colli muscles. Between the pleurae in tbis part there are foimd, proceeding from *°jjtents before backwards, the following objects,—the remains of the thymus gland, several lymphatic glands, the innominate veins and the upper half of the superior cava, the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the transverse part of the arch of the aorta with its three large branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, the tracbea, oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior mediastinum is the part in front of the pericardium, Anterior j • • i « • ,1 i , mediasti- and is very narrow m its upper hall, since the two pleurae meet nnm jS the behind the sternum from the level of the second to the fourth sraaUest: costal cartilages. Below the latter spot the left pleura inclines away from the middle line, and is separated from its fellow by an interval in which the pericardium comes into contact with the sternum and the left triangularis sterni muscle. The anterior mediastinum contents. contains only some areolar tissue with a few small lymphatic glands. In sdme bodies the left pleura is continued behind the sternum nearly as far as the diaphragm. The middle mediastinum is the largest part of the septum, and Middle mc- includes the pericardium with the contained heart and great vessels, extents" = viz., the ascending part of the arch of the aorta, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the lower half of the superior vena cava ; also the phrenic nerves, the roots of the lungs with the bronchial lymphatic glands, and on the right side the arch of the azygos vein. The posterior mediastinum is the portion between the pericardium Posterior and the spine ; and the interpleural space is here larger than in front of the heart. Its extent and contents will be shewn by dividing the pleura on the right side behind the root of the lung, boundaries. Enclosed between the serous layers of the posterior mediastinum and con- are the descending thoracic aorta, the azygos veins, the oesophagus tents- with the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the thoracic duct, as well as a set of lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned from Clean pen- the side of the pericardium. cardmmand The root of the lung is to be dissected out by taking away the the root °f pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back, without in-tUe lu"g" juring its component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic artery Trace the and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with a few nerycs small nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azvgos vein, and azygos