BASE OF CEREBRUM. 203 consists of a layer of grey matter; and its cavity is a part of the third ventricle. In the foetus this tube is open between the third Ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed below. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has Pituitary been dislodged from its resting place : it should therefore be botly- examined when opportunity offers in the base of the skull by removing the surrounding bone. Its use. is unknown. It is situate in the hollow of the sella Turcica on the sphenoid Situation, bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid and firm in texture ; but in the foetus it is hollow, and the posterior lobe opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the Dissection, corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The lamina cinerea (m) is a thin concave layer of grey substance, Grey lamina, which gradually tapers upwards from the tuber cinereum to the termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great tliinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The corpus callosum bent downwards in front, is continued Corpus horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina caUosmn cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the peduncles of the corpus callosum, which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated spot. The anterior ends below bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu, and to the {JaJ^° prolonged central part the name rostrum is given. Laterally this and extends part of the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and forms ^Jf""" part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. " Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissure and the fore 8ylvu- part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is bounded by the diverg- ing roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by the central Anterior branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus giving ^°e"' rise to the anterior perforated space. The grey substance is con- tinuous above with the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. The Olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which Olfactory is named the olfactory tract, and a terminal expansion in front—the Iobe olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus; fig. 61, ol) on lies in the surface of the inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the """' ''"'.v hemisphere. suluus- The olfactory bulb (fig. 59, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, oifeotory and nearly half an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform bulb- plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise. a ted