DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 460 fascia, and skin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impossible if it is large. Stricture : situation ; to free from stricture ; in large hernia. Rarer kind of internal hernia is oblique in direction with the cord. Coverings are same as in external hernia. Diagnosis not possible in life. fascia. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external; and in kind the only differences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form process, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall, and the1 straightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia. Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished from external hernia by its straight course through tbe abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubis. When an inguinal hernia has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external examination whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an ex- ternal hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling accpiires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- jury to the peritoneum; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put back into the abdomen, tbe sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In dividing the stricture on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the cut should be made directly upwards in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, tbe position of which cannot be ascertained. Variety of interned hernia. Another kind of internal kernia(superior) occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space which is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the epigastric artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" woidd not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has the same coverings as an external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascia}, the transversalis fascia (but not the infundibuliform fascia), and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, while in the hernia which it simulates they lie on