DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 622 Anterior crural nerve is divided. From its superficial part arise— middle cutaneous; internal cutaneous, which has anterior and posterior branches ; nerve to pectiiieus; branches to sartorius. The deep part gives off branches to rectus, to vastus externus, to crureus, and to vastus internus; upper external articular artery ; a small offset courses over the muscle with a nerve to the joint. The anterior crural nerve (fig. 192, 8) of the lumbar plexus (p. 536) supplies the muscles, and most of the integuments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep pieces. A. The superficial part gives off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and branches to the sartorius and pectineus muscles. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 603). The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into anterior and posterior branches. . Sometimes these branches arise separately from the anterior crural trunk. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 604). The posterior branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 604). While underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The nerve to tlie pectineus (fig. 190, 2) is slender, and is directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the anterior surface of the muscle : sometimes there are two branches. Two or three branches to the sartorius arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve. B. The deep part of the anterior crural nerve furnishes branches to the several heads of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and one cutaneous nerve—the internal saphenous. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of the muscle; from this branch a twig is sent to the hip-joint. The nerve to the vastus externus divides into two or more pieces as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is often continued downwards to the knee-joint. Two or three branches to the crureus pass into the anterior surface of the muscle ; and from the most internal a long twig descends to the subcrureus and the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus internus (fig. 193,8) is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee-joint. Its articular branch (fig. 193,9) is prolonged on or m the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it is distributed over the synovial membrane of