IDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 518 Body of Morgagni. Suspended obliquely. Dimensions. and weight. A dense tunic en- closes small secreting tubes. How to sec the struc- ture of the testis. Fibrous coat: characters; use; sends inwards processes, Fig. 163. three lines in length (corpus Morgagni), which is the remains of the upper end of the fcetal duct of Muller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and weight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is fre- quently larger than the other. Structure. The substance of the tes- ticle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the Wood-vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albugineu. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz., that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown back- wards as far as the entrance of the blood-vessels. While raising this mem- brane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the tes- ticle, and a short septal piece (medias- tinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fully into view the medi- astinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and un- yielding structure: it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle,, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. * The testis, with the tunica vaginalis laid open. a. Testicle, b. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis, c. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Vas deferens.