DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. 120 Dissection of sympa- thetic. viz., middle and lower •janslia. Reserve sterno- clavicular joint. Ganglia of sympathetic Cardiac nerves. Upper. Middle. Lower pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the .sym- pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen above the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. The upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum with the attached clavicle is to be taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right side, that the same description will suffice (p. 114). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right side, viz., superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some dil Terences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both sides ; but the left in entering the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries, and it ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch, which enters the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the deep cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. Directions. The pharynx can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner indicated below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Detach Dissection. The' block being removed from beneath the neck, the P^ynx ^ead ig t0 t,e piace(j downwards, so that it may stand on the cut m gpme, ^ ^ 8kull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without injuring, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull turn upwards the inner surface of