DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. and in the the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth approaches. The placental or pure blood, entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; while the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. T^open Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student ventricle. should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out below near the apex of the heart without injuring the ventricular septum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior wall of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the nap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. Cavity of The cavity of the right ventricle (fig. 104) is triangular in t ncieVeU" f°rm) with the base turned towards the auricle of the same side. On a cross section it Avould appear semilunar in shape, the septum between the ventricles being convex towards the cavity. Apex. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a Base and its short distance; from the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, ngs. an(^ -g pei.fomteci by two apertures ; one of these, to the right and below, leading into the auricle, is the right auricido-ventricular opening (c) ; the other, on the left and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery (g). The part of the cavity leading up to the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infundibulum or conus arteriosus. Anterior The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular posterior portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- waii.. tum 'between the ventricles, and is much thicker, interior of Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is marked by pro- is'uneveif- JectuiS muscular bands, the columnce camew ; but near the aperture cm it there °^ pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy are three columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Some eolumiweShy f°rm merely a prominence, in the ventricle, especially on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle (trabcculcc camew). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Opening The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the from the ventricle, and behind the right half of the sternum, on a lewd with (iiiriclc * the fourth intercostal space. It is oval in shape, and measures about Tnuand four inches in circumference, being slightly larger than the corre- *'zc; sponding aperture of the left side. is guarded Fixed around the opening is a large membranous valve, which by the tri- projects mt0 the cavity of the ventricle. At its attached margin the cuspid valve, I ._.„•'.,.. . , i n 1 r valve is undivided ; but its lower part, is notched, so as to lorm