LIGAMENTS OF YERTEBRiE. 375 three or four vertebrae, while the deepest pass from, one bone to the ^^^f next. More of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral discs than to the bones ; and few or none are fixed to the centre of the bodies. The ligament bridges over the transverse hollows on the vertebral bodies, and renders the front of the column smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common short lateral ligament, the bodies of the vertebra are united by a thin layer of flbres- short fibres (fig. 112, b). The posterior common ligament (fig. 113) is contained in the Posterior spinal canal, lying on the back of the vertebral bodies, and also ligament: «xtends from the axis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narrow below. It is form; wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the bodies, so that Fig. 113a.* Fig. 113b.* the margins are dentate. In the neck (a) it covers nearly the whole breadth of the bodies ; but in the dorsal and lumbar regions (b) it is a narrow band, which sends off a pointed process on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the upper margin of the pedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contact with the relations j dura mater; and between the band and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior ligament; and they are more closely united with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. Dissection. To see the intervertebral discs, the anterior andToseethc posterior common ligaments must be taken away ; and to show vertebral their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally, while su1)Stance- another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebra. The intervertebral substances or discs (fig. 114) are placed between inter- the bodies of the vertebra, with the exception of the atlas and axis, discs^™1 Each disc is a flattened or slightly biconvex plate (fig. 115), which forman(1 is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form * Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, to show the difference in shape, a, in the neck, and b, in the loins.