334 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Thymus body in foetus. Size and extent. Remains in adult. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may he left untouched. The thymus gland is an organ which is most developed in the infant, and the use of which is not understood. It is placed mainly in the upper part of the thorax ; and it may be best examined in a full-grown foetus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and of a greyish colour. It consists of two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed, and extends on the trachea as high as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and branches, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather firm material in the interpleural space behind the upper end of the sternum; and after middle life it has generally disappeared altogether. large RELATIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number and use. Form and parts. Base touches diaphragm shape and level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is thin position on right, and left side. ' Posterior edge is thick The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Each lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter forming the root; and it is covered by the bag of the pleura. It has a base aud apex, two borders and two surfaces ; and one or two fissures divide it into lobes. The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the circumference, fitting the convexity of the diaphragm. Follow- ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped oblic|iiely from before backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower behind than in front. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be indicated by a line drawn from the sixth chondro-sternal articulation to the tenth dorsal spine ; but it will be slightly lower in front on the left, than on the right side (fig. 101). The apex is rounded, and projects from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. The anterior border is thin, and overlies in part the peri- cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage (fig. 101). On the left side it reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch (fig. 101), the apex of which is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. The posterior border is half as long again as the anterior, and projects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column.