532 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Insertion into lemur; relations in front, behind, of outer border, Of inner horde] ; lumbar nerves in its substance; use to bend hip-joint with iliacus, pr to bend trunk on the limb. Psoas parvus: origin; insert ion : [liaeus lias the form of the iliac fossa ; origin; insertion ; parts cover- ing it on two sides; beneath it; each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebra), and from tendinous bands over the blood-vessels opposite the middle of the vertebra?. 'The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends below in a tendon on tin- outer aspect, which receives also most of the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following relations :— In front are the internal arch of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery: beneath these, the muscle is covered by the inner part of the iliac i'ascia. Behind, the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with the quadratus lumborum, and with the hip-bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebra;, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis ;—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nerve, with the cava on the right, and the. aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac vessels. The nerves of the lumbar plexus lie between the slips of origin from the transverse processes. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raised towards the belly ; and in flexing the hip-joint the psoas is always combined with the iliacus. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw forwards the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spine laterally. The psoas parvus (fig. 166, e) is a small, inconstant muscle with a long tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader below, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis, joining the iliac fascia. Action. This muscle aids in flexing the lumbar portion of the spine, either drawing forwards the upper part of the trunk, or raising the front of the pelvis, according to which end is fixed. The iliacus muscle (fig. 166, h) occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa, and slightly from the ala of the sacrum and the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. The fibres pass obliquely inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur ; and a few have a separate attachment to the femur below the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; and over the right iliacus is placed the cajeum, over the left, the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the hip-bone and the capsule of the