279 TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF ELBOW. Tins muscle is for the most part concealed by the biceps. On it Relations of lie the brachial vessels, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and ' mnsculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two slips the tendon of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the inter- of borders, muscular septum in all its length; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the forearm, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Action. The brachialis brings forwards the ulna towards the Use, fore- • • 'inn fl"GG humerus, and bends the elbow-jomt. 1 If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the and fixed, head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus. BACK OP THE AKM. Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the Position of limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block the part- beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 83). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, How to lay btiFC til 8 the triceps, beneath which are placed tire musculo-spiral nerve and triceps, superior profunda vessels. The skin having been ab-eady reflected, the muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, carry an incision along the middle of the limb to the point of the elbow; and in reflecting it, the loose subaponeurotic tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the and separato muscle; aud trace the musculo-spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. l)ieces- Define the outer head, which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The triceps muscle (tig. 83) is divided superiorly into three Triceps heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle : two of these are attached ^reeheads. to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle or long head (a) has a tendinous origin, about an origin of inch wide, from the axillary margin of the scapula close to J^d16 the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capside of the shoidder-joint. The outer head (b) is narrow and arises from the of outer back of the humerus, extending from the root of the large liead> tuberosity to the spiral groove. The inner head (c), fleshy and and of inner wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the head" spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major. From the different heads the fibres are directed with Direction of starving degrees of inebriation to a wide common tendon above the the Ubres- elbow. Inferiorly the muscle is inserted into the end of the insertion, olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa.