337 THE PERICARDIUM. Seek the following nerves of the left side, which cross the arch of the aorta : The nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the arch of vagus ; the next largest in size, in front of the vagus, is theaorta- phrenic. Between the preceding nerves, and close to the artery, are the left superficial cardial nerve of the sympathetic, and the lower cervical cardiac hranch of the left vagus ; of .the two, the last is the smaller, and on the right of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to he Dissect followed to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the concavity of jS"'?!;''1 the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to he traced downwards arch of If) I"t '1 between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the right' coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus : this dissection is difficult, and requires care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will he followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The pericardium is somewhat conical in form, the wider part Pericar- being turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part extending dium " upwards beyond the heart on the large vessels. It is placed behind f0" ,a.u<l the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but much more position; towards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie between relations, the two. Its anterior surface is separated from the chest-wall by the pleurae and lungs, except over a small area on the left side corre- sponding to the lower part of the anterior mediastinum (p. 333) ; and behind, in the interval between the pleuroa, it is in contact with the oesophagus and aorta. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- Compost- ternally by a serous membrane. tlon" The fibrous part surrounds the heart, and is pierced by the large Fibrous part vessels joining that organ, with the exception of the inferior cava : ^^ths to it gives prolongations around the vessels, and the strongest of these vessels, sheaths is on the aorta. Below, it is united to the central tendon of the diaphragm. This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be seen. The serous sac consists of a parietal and a visceral part, which are Serous continuous with one another along the "reat vessels. The parietal 'a,yer lines 1 1 fibrous, part lines the nbrous membrane, with which it is inseparably united, and the included portion of the diaphragm ; while the visceral part covers the heart. Where it is reflected around the ani\ covers vessels, it encloses the pulmonary artery and aorta in one sheath ; hejrt: but the veins are not completely surrounded, their posterior surfaces disposition being devoid of a serous investment. At the back of the left vessels; auricle the serous membrane forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of the two sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forma a vcstig'ai fold. z