POPLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 649 The internal popliteal nerve (2) is larger than the external, jgg* and occupies the middle of the ham : its relations are similar to ,iei.ve: those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial, and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. The nerve is continued to the back of the leg; but it retains the name popliteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been branches already noticed. The branches arising from it are the following :— are a. Two small articular twigs (fig. 199,9) are furnished to the ^. knee-joint with the vessels. One accompanies the lower internal'r articular artery to the front of the articulation, and is the larger ; the other takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. b. Muscular branches arise from the nerve between the heads °f^ ula].. the gastrocnemius. One is furnished to each head of the gastro- mu30U ai > cnemius, and the outer of these usually supplies the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the posterior surface of the soleus. And a fourth penetrates the popliteus at the anterior aspect, after turning round the lower border. c. The tibial communicating branch (fig. 203,3) is a cutaneous and one offset to the leg and foot. It lies beneath the fascia, and between the'tibiaT' the heads of the gastrocnemius, as far as the middle of the leg, °°m1™uni" where it becomes superficial, and unites with the peroneal com- municating branch of the external popliteal, to form the short saphenous nerve (p. 660). The external popliteal nerve (peroneal; fig. 198,3) lies along External the outer boimdary of the ham, and is at first concealed by the edge ^rve f*1 of the biceps muscle ; becoming superficial, it is continued over the outer head of the gastrocnemius, following the hinder border of the course biceps tendon, until it is below the head of the fibula. There it and ending; enters the fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into two—musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches branches are articular and cutaneous :— a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the articular; upper external articular artery to the outer side of the knee, and sends a twig along the lower articular artery: both enter the joint. b. The peroneal communicating branch (fig. 203,4) soon pierces peroneal the fascia, and descends over the outer head of the gastrocnemius to eating1;""" join the tibial commivnicating from the internal popliteal in the short saphenous nerve. c. One or two external cutaneous branches arise either in common and external with the preceding or separately, and supply the skin of the outer ontg'.e0US side of the leg, reaching nearly to the external malleolus. The ARTICULAR BRANCH OE THE OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 199, 7) Articular perforates the adductor magnus (p. 627), and is conducted by the obturator10 popliteal artery to the back of the knee. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the nerve enters the articulation through the pos- terior ligament. The popliteal lymphatic a lands are situate round the large Lymphatic arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides ; while one fround the artery.