DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 muscle ; and other minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani. Oticgan- The otic ganglion (Arnold's ganglion, fig. 36) is a small reddish side of kody, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance hehind lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished hy it to muscles. Connecting branches—roots. Through its connection with the nerve to the internal pterygoid, the otic ganglion receives fibres from both the small and large roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, so that it glion is on inner inferior maxillary. Structure. Branches join it with fifth, Fig. 36.* sympa- thetic, seventh, ninth, auriculo- temporal, and chorda tympani. Branches to muscles; tensor tympani may be said to derive its motor and sensory roots from the fifth Its sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the middle menin- geal artery. The ganglion is farther joined behind by the small superficial petrosal nerve (2), through which fibres are conveyed to it from the facial and glossopharyngeal nerves. One or two short branches pass between the ganglion and the beginning of the auriculo-temporal nerve; and a filament descends to the chorda tympani. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves through the otic «anglion, viz., tensor tympani and tensor palati. The nerve to the tensor tympani (3) is directed backwards to gain the bony * The otic ganglion from the inner side. a. Tensor tympani muscle b Internal pterygoid muscle, c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani". 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 5. Nerve to internal pterygoid. Auriculo-temporal nerve.