360 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. Trachea The trachea, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins bronchi opposite the sixth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at I In- lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung, in the neck. Its relations in the neck are described on p. 119, and its structure on p. 168. The part in the thorax remains to be studied, its relations In the thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in the thorax. superior mediastinum ; and its lower end is usually inclined some- what to the right side. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the oesophagus, which projects to the left above the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. Bronchi lie The bronchi, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the "fthoimigs; roots °f the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves. ( ^ Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there- trachea in lll'e lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 336. The right The right bronchus is about an inch in length, and is larger than (hirers from ]eft . jt ais0 forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, from which circumstance a foreign body in the airtube is more- likely to enter this bronchus. It passes obliquely outwards, on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the right pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. left in size The left bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the level ti"nsrela °^ ^e s^x^ dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corresponding pulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Remove the Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the body by lu""s' cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root. Take away The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away heart ami afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, pi mm. ^e perjcardium is to be detached from the surface of tin- diaphragm : in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural span- in front of the spine. Surface of Physical characters of the lung. The surface of the lung smooth ; is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the is marked serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided by lobules jnt0 small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely ceils!1111111 at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be perceived in it. Coi.au- The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a