FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. 287 Fig. 84. i The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is covered by the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz., supinator longus, and radial extensors of the wrist. The pronator forms the inner boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor carpi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median nerve : the second small head of origin intervenes between the artery and nerve.' Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the idna, so as to pronate the hand. When the radius is fixed, the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 84, 4) takes its origin from the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the trapezium, in a special sheath at the outer side of the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger (p. 306). The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor siiblimis digitorum ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis, — a muscle of the deep group. As low as the middle of the forearm the flexor carpi radialis corresponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that -with the radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the wrist, with the median nerve. Action. The hand being free, the muscle first flexes the wrist-joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and it will assist in bringing forwards the lower end of the radius in pronation. Still continuing to contract, it bends the elbow. Relations. Use on ratlins and elbow. Radial flexor of the wrist. Tlie muscle is super- ficial ; is the guide to radial artery. Use on wrist and radius. * Superficial view of the forearm. (Quain's "Arteries.") 1. Radial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve. 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor subliinis digitorum. 7. Flexor carpi uluaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps.