DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. RELATIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the pancreas, Rwnors the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum is to be removed in the following way :—A double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through between the pieces of string where it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to he taken away by cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been separated, it is to be set aside for future study while the body is turned. The student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum to sec the 1 J from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the loose peritoneum c uoaenum> and the fat : while cleaning them, he should lay bare the larger vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach, the pancreas may be traced and »an- froni the spleen on the one side to the duodenum on the other creas> (tig. 149). By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile- w,th dl"'f- duct may be found behind, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas may afterwards be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 149, d). The first part of the small intestine, Duodenum : or the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and extent; crossing the spinal column, ends at the duodeno-jejunal flexure (p. 469), on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes course and a curve roimd the head of the pancreas, and is placed in the epi- situatio" • gastric and umbilical regions of the abdomen. From its winding course round the pancreas it is divided into three portions, as division, follows :— The first or superior portion is nearly horizontal, and is free and First part is moveable like the stomach. It measures about two inches in length, ^'moTeabie1 and is directed backwards from the pylorus to near the upper end of '°V " ' the right kidney. Above and in front are the liver and gall- bladder ; below is the head of the pancreas ; and behind it are the common bile-duct, the portal vein, and the gastro-duodenal artery. The second ovmidJ.e portion, about three inches in length, descends Second part to the level of the third lumbar vertebra), and is fixed almost indexed'' mimoveably by the peritoneum and the pancreas. In front of it are the liver and transverse colon ; behind it the inner border of the kidney and the renal vessels ; and on its inner side the head of the pancreas, with the common bile-duct The ducts of the liver and pancreas open into this part of the duodenum. The third or inferior portion is the longest of all : it first crosses Third parti, from right to left opposite the third lumbar vertebra, and then lonscst. ascends for a short distance on the surface of the left psoas muscle ata° to its termination in the jejunum. It lies in front of the vena cava and aorta, and its anterior surface is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels. Above it is the pancreas.