387 MUSCLES OF SECOND LAYER. the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small Second^ rhomboid muscles: besides these, the posterior belly of the omo- iayer. hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nerves directed outwards towards the scapula, are now to be examined. The parts referred to have been prepared in the dissection following the reflection of the trapezius (p. 384). * The levator anguli scapula (fig. 119, c) arises by tendinous Elevator of slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the ^pute: upper four cervical vertebra?. The fibres form an elongated muscle, attach- which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and luents; tbe superior angle. At its origin the levator lies beneath the stemo-mastoid, and at relations j its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it meets, the serratus magnus muscle; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the scapula, and use, and depresses the acromion; but in combination with the upper on scai)ula> fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoidder. When the shoidder is fixed, the neck can be bent to the side by on the neck, the levator. * Rhomboidei muscles. The muscular layer of the rhombcidei is Rhomboid attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large J^."sc are and small, which are usually separated by a slight interval. * The rhomboideus minor (fig. 119, d) is a thin narrow band, SmaU which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsalIuuscle- vertebrae, and the ligamentum nucha?, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The rhomboideus major (fig. 119, e) is much larger than the Lzi-ge preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsallnUSC e " vertebra below the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous origin; ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the lower insertion, angle. Sometimes the upper fibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch near the bone. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by the trapezius Relations, and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will Use, by draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to ^thTthe^ depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they carry the scapula directly back ; and acting with the seiratus magnus they serve to fix the scapida. The omo-hyoid muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior and Posterior posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Onlv the lx;ll.>',of om°- posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind origin, the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a fora- c c 2