204 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Olfactory tract: roots, outer and inner. Olfactory tubercle. Position of brain to examine upper part. Cerebrum is convex above, and divided into two by a median fissure. Hemisphere grey on surface, marked by convolu- tions and furrows. Furrows are incomplete and complete. Convolu- tions vary, but plan is uniform. Division of the hemi- sphere. The olfactory tract is a prismatic Land, about an inch long, the upper edge of which is received into the olfactory sulcus. It is attached by its base, where it is somewhat expanded, to the frontal lobe close in front of the anterior perforated space ; and from this part two diverging white streaks, the roots of the olfactory tract or olfactory stria:, proceed to neighbouring convolutions. The external root passes along the outer margin of the anterior perforated space, and across the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, to the anterior extremity of the uncinate convolution in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The internal root, not always visible, bends inwards, and joins the lower end of the callosal convolution. By raising the olfactory lobe from its sulcus, the dorsal ridge will be seen to become enlarged at its posterior end, forming the olfactory tubercle. Position of the part. Now that the base of the cerebrum has been studied, the brain should be turned over for the examination of the upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the fore part, in order that it may be raised to the same level as the back; and a rolled-up cloth should loosely encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. Viewed from above, the cerebrum is ovoidal in form, and the upper surface is convex in accordance with the shape of the skull. A med/Um longitudinal fissure divides the cerebrum incompletely into halves. At the front and back the hemispheres are quite separated by it; but at the middle and under parts they are united by connecting bodies, the largest of which is the white corpus callosum. In the fissure the falx cerebri is lodged. Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind, although the greatest breadth of the cerebrum is placed behind the middle. Its outer surface is convex and applied to the skull; the inner is flat and rests against the falx cerebri. The surface of the hemisphere consists of grey matter (cortex of the cerebrum), and is marked by tortuous eminences separated by grooves. The eminences are named convolutions or gyri; the grooves are furrows or sulci. The sulci of the cerebrum are of two kinds. The greater number are superficial depressions which carry inwards the grey cortex and only indent the central white substance ; but a few penetrate more deeply, and these are the result of folds involving the whole thick- ness of both grey and white substance, so as to affect the form of the cavity (lateral ventricle) contained within the hemisphere, or give rise to eminences projecting on its wall. The sulci of the latter group are distinguished as fissures. The convolutions and sulci, especially the smaller ones, vary in different brains, and they are not exactly alike even in the two hemispheres of the same cerebrum. Their general arrangement or plan is, however, constant, and there will seldom be much dinicidty in recognizing the several parts referred to in the following de- scription. Interlobar Sulci and Lobes of the Hemisphere. The outer surface of the hemisphere is divided into regions, or groups of con-