INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 103 bone remain to be dissected. The terminal branches of the carotid are examined with the brain. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 26) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching theneck^ the styloid process at the root, and throwing it forwards with its muscles, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them ; and this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the a"a crania ' nerves ■ glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of the first and second cervical nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending pharyn- geal artery will be met with. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow in the tem- the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side; of poral boue- the skull in the following manner:—the saw being placed behind the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosmn in the ■wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches Nerves on it. of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two'small filaments may be recognised with care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sjanpathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the Vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may Tympanum obtain a view of the outer part of the tympanum with its membrane obtained- and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. The internal carotid artery (fig. 26, d) springs from the bifurcation internal of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of cawtM the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the enterstlie petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of sk""' the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided Itscou se is into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, n, st and a third in the cranium.