BOUNDARIES OF THE TYMPANUM. 731 temporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 91). Middle Ear. The chief part of the middle ear is the tympanum Middle ear or drum, a cavity containing air, which is interposed between the tympanum, external auditory canal and the labyrinth or internal ear. The space is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. It communicates in front with the pharynx by a canal named the Eustachian tube ; and Eustachian behind, it is prolonged into a series of excavations in the mastoid j^de'mastoid part of the temporal bone—the mastoid cells. Small vessels and cells nerves ramify in the cavity. Dissection. The tympanic cavity should be examined in both a Dissection dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the squamous *° °g;n !t in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the root of bone> the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone-forceps some of the upper surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without and in the doing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, recent bone- and the chain of bones with its muscles. The tympanum has the form of a very short cylinder, which is Tympanum: placed obliquely, so that its end-surfaces (the inner and outer walls f01'm aml of the tympanum) are nearer to the median plane in front than behind. The circumference of the cylinder is somewhat irregular, and interrupted at parts : in it a roof, a floor, and an anterior and a posterior wall are distinguished. The cavity measures about half dimensions, an inch from above down and from before back. Its breadth may be given as one-sixth of an inch ; but it is wider above and behind than at the lower and fore parts ; and it is narrowest in the centre, owing to the projection towards the cavity of the promontory on the inner wall, and of the tympanic membrane externally. The inner boundary of the tympanum (fig. 231) is formed by the inner wall oiiter wall of the osseous labyrinth, by the parts of which the con- formation of this surface is mainly determined. Occupying the greater part of the inner wall is a rounded eminence called the is marked by promontory (pr) ; this becomes narrow behind, and its surface is Promontory marked by two or three minute grooves which lodge the nerves of and grooves; the tympanic plexus. Above and below the narrowed end of the promontory is an aperture : both lead into the labyrinth. The upper aperture (/o) is semicircular in shape, with the con- fenestra vexity upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis : it opens into the ovalis; vestibule, and into it the inner bone (stapes) of the chain is fixed. The lower aperture, fenestra rotunda (/r), is rather triangular in fenestra form, and is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow: in the macerated rotunda bone it leads into the cochlea ; but in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane—the secondary membrane of the tympanum. Arching above the fenestra ovalis on this wall is a ridge of bone ridge of (c/*) which marks the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and SSSSS"