663 SUPERFICIAL EXTENSORS OF ANKLE. Action. When the foot is unsupported, the gastrocnemius extends ™et™£tUe the ankle; and when the toes rest on the ground, it raises the os ^ ^. calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and in progression. Takincr its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down acting from ■■•"*"-"io J- ... below, the femur so as to bend the knee-jomt. Dissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected Detach by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 204), and the vessels and f^uJ.0CUe~ nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The soleus (fig. 204, b) is a large flat muscle, which is attached Soleus is to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper the bones ° third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula; from the of the leg, oblique line across the tibia, and from the inner edge of this bone as low as the middle ; and between the bones from an aponeurotic and joins arch over the large blood-vessels. Its fibres are directed downwards ?don to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- parts over cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath andunder the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep muscles, and the vessels it; and nerves. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- use, cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is ^eeefoot free to move ; and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. and jjxe)j. By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both muscles the common tendon is sometimes broken across. If it acts from the os calcis, it will draw back the bones of the acting from leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to be ow" the erect posture after stooping. Tbndo Achillis (fie. 204, p). The common tendon of the gastro- Tendo . Achillis • cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though extent' it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end: below, it is narrowed, and is inserted into the middle impression and i«ser- on the posterior aspect of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia; and the external saphenous vein and nerve are superficial to it at first, but afterwards lie along its outer border. The plantaris (fig. 204, c) is remarkable in having the longest Plantaris: tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the origin; muscle arises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of, the tendo insertion; Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed j^*'0" of by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of 16 m"SC e' the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus.