215 LATERAL VENTRICLE. The body is beneath the parietal lobe of the hemisphere, and Body: extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus callosum. It is somewhat arched, with the convexity upwards, and in its floor are seen the following parts, proceeding from without inwards :—1, the hinder portion of a pyriform mass of grey matter ol.je.cts in named the corpus striatum (caudate nucleus ; c), 2, a slender white noor; band—the taenia semicircularis (/), 3, a narrow part of the optic thalamus (</), 4, a vascular fringe of the pia mater—the choroid plexus (h), and 5, a thin white layer—the lateral part of the fornix (c). It is bounded internally for a short distance in front by the mesial limit, hinder part of the septum lucidum (6), and behind this by the meeting of the fornix and corpus callosum. The anterior comu projects forwards, with an inclination down- Anterior wards and outwards, into the frontal lobe. In the floor are the lloin' large anterior extremity (head) of the caudate nucleus and the boundaries, rostrum of the corpus callosum ; its anterior boundary is formed by the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from the cavity of the opposite side by the septum lucidum. The posterior comu (o) is narrower and generally longer than the Posterior anterior, but its breadth and length vary much in different brains. llorn: It extends backwards into the occipital lobe, being curved outwards form ; round the parieto-occipital fissure of the internal surface of the hemisphere. Along its inner side is an elongated white eminence— inner wall; the hippocampus minor (i) ; and the floor is formed by the hinder and floor- part of the eminentia collateralis (k). The inferior or descending comu leaves the hinder part of the Middle body of the ventricle opposite the splenium of the corpus callosum, 110111: and runs downwards and forwards in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, direction; describing a curve with the convexity outwards. In the roof are roof; contained the fibres passing from the hinder end of the corpus callosum downwards and outwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, together with the prolongations of the caudate nucleus and tamia semicircularis. The floor is formed mainly by a long and floor, curved eminence—the hippocampus major (Z), along the inner margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the tamia hippo- campi, while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia collateralis. The choroid plexus is continued downwards along the inner side to the lower extremity of this cornu. The septum lucidum (fig. 63, b) is placed vertically between the Septum two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpusluc»dum: callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is triangular in P0Sltlon> shape, with the base turned downwards and forwards, and fixed to attIicii-Ud the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior border ismenta i oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, opposite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two laminae which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle. Each lamina is a double La composed of white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter Petition, internally ; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its fifth • 8 outer surface. ventricle.