DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 130 Use on palate, on tube. Palato- glossus. Attach- ments. Relations. Use. Palato- pharyngeus forms two layers in velum ; posterior layer is joined by salpingo- pharyngeus anterior layer is larger; inserted into thyroid cartilage and wall of pharynx. Use ; in swallow- ing; palati internally. The tendon enters the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, and is thrown into folds as it winds round the hamular process, a bursa being placed between the two. In the soft palate it lies between the palato-pharyngeus and palato-glossus. Action. Acting from the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. The soft palate being fixed by its depressor muscles, the tensor, taking its fixed point below, opens the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The palato-glossus muscle (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior pillar (fig. 30, i) of the soft palate. It is connected below with the side of the tongue ; from this spot the fibres ascend in front of the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed beneath the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus closes the isthmus of the fauces, bringing the soft palate into contact with the tongue, and approxi- mating the anterior pillars, thus shutting off the mouth from the pharynx. The palato-phaeyngeus (fig. 30, q ; 31, 4) is much larger than the preceding muscle, and gives rise to the eminence of the pos- terior pillar (l) of the soft palate. It begins in the soft palate in two layers, which enclose between them the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. The superficial, very thin, and situate immediately beneath the nmcous membrane, meets in the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle ; it is also joined by a slender fasciculus, which descends from the anterior extremity of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube (salpingo-pharyn- geus—Santorini, fig. 30, c). The deep or anterior layer is much stronger, and lies between the levator and tensor palati muscles ; its upper fibres spring from the hinder margin of the hard palate and the aponeurosis of the velum, while the lower ones join those of the opposite side. The two layers meet at the outer part of the soft palate, and the muscle descends behind the tonsil on the side wall of the pharynx. Spreading out below, the anterior fibres are inserted into the hinder border of the thyroid cartilage, but the greater number end in the submucous tissue of the pharynx beneath the inferior constrictor, the hinder ones meeting the fellow muscle in the middle line. Action. The palato-pharyngeus depresses and tightens the soft palate, raises the larynx and lower part of the pharynx, and at the same time brings together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus acting as a sphincter by which the nasal portion is separated from the oral portion of the pharynx. In swallowing, the hinder pillars of the soft palate, being approximated by the action of this muscle, form,