537 SYMPATHETIC CORD. muscles of the thigh (p. 625). Arising in front of the anterior in the crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the plexus Moaiea '■ (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner horder of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from heneath the muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters ends in the the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. thlgh' Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch : — The accessory obturator nerve (I) arises from the trunk of the occasionally obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its branch!880*7 course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the hip-bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip-joint (p. 625). Gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The lumbar part of ^"n^the'0 the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is placed on the front of the abdomen spinal column (fig. 167, o) : it lies along the inner border of the joins that psoas muscle, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the in 1 x' vena cava, on the left by the aorta. The cord possesses four or five' has four or oval ganglia opposite the bodies of the vertebrae, which supply e ganglia ■ connecting and visceral branches. Connecting brandies. From each ganglion two small branches are branches to directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, nerve's,"'' with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long in the lumbar region, in consequence of the gangliated cord being carried forwards by the psoas muscle from the intervertebral foramina. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw an<*to themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach V18ceia' the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebras and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 167, e). The anterior primary branch Last dorsal of the last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, "erve: but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the course to upper part of the quadratus lumborum, but beneath the external ^Mome!?? arched ligament and the fascia of the quadratus. At the outer border of that muscle it perforates the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, and enters the wall of the abdomen, where it ends in an abdominal and a lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). The first lumbar artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratu3 muscle; branch rb and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar '"USClC' nerve. . The LUMBAR arteries of the aorta (p. 527) are furnished to the Lumbar back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble flv^/nnum- the aortic intercostals in their course and distribution. Commonly boron each five in number on each side, they arise from the back of the aorta, S"'' : and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk. They then pass backwards over the hollowed surface of the course;