MOVEMENTS OF HEAD. 177 front. When the joint is opened, the elliptical articular surface of Articular the condyle will be seen to be convex in all directions, and to look aurfaces- outwards as well as downwards. The articular cavity of the atlas lias a corresponding direction, upwards and inwards, and is marked by a slight transverse groove, from which the cartilage is often wanting. Atlanto-axial articulations. Three synovial joints exist between Between the atlas and axis. The central articulation is between the anterior ax^at-e a anii of the atlas and the odontoid process, and has already been £n™|^,°illt exposed. The lateral articulations are formed on each side by the gliding inferior articular process of the atlas and the upper articular j°mts- surface of the axis. These are united by a loose capsule (fig. 46,1), which is thickened so as to give rise to an accessory ligament at the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. The articular surface of the Articular axis is somewhat convex, and is sloped downwards and outwards ; latter. while that of the atlas presents a slight transverse ridge in the middle, so that the opposed surfaces are more extensively in contact when the atlas is turned to one side, than when it is placed symmetrically over the axis. Movements of the liead. The head can be bent forwards—flexion, Movements of head or backwards—extension ; it can be inclined towards the shoulder kinds of. —lateral flexion ; and it can be turned to either side—rotation. Flexion and extension take place in the joints between the atlas J^^s and occipital bone; and the range of movement is greater in the seat, ' forward than in the backward direction. Flexion is limited mainly exteuJ;> J ami checks. by the long occipito-axial and the check ligaments; extension by the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and by the approximation of the occipital bone to the neural arch of the atlas. When the head is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical portion of the spine also come into play. Lateral flexion is effected mainly by movement between the Inclination cervical vertebrae; but a very slight degree may be due to move- p°ace j1Ltakes ment having its seat in the occipito-atlantal articulations. neck. Rotation takes place in the atlanto-axial articulations, the atlas Turning and head moving together round the pivot formed by the odontoid between114 process. The movement is stopped by the check ligaments. Less atlas and than half of the whole possible rotation of the head is obtained between the atlas and axis, the rest being made up in the neck. and in neck. Sternoclavicular articulation (fig. 51). The articular Bterno- surfaces of the two bones are not precisely adapted to each other, SSoS^mi and an interarticular fibro-cartilage is placed between them. They is a co".1-. are united by a capsular ligament; and the clavicle receives P°U1' J01Ut' additional support from a ligament passing to the first rib-carti- lage, and another band connecting it to the bone of the opposite side. Dissection. For the examination of the ligaments of the sterno- Dissection, clavicular articulation, take the piece of the bones that was set aside for the purpose. If the ligaments have become diy, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will be seen in the situation indicated by their names, after the removal of some connective tissue. N