659 SUPERFICIAL MARKINGS OF LEG. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student Surface- .should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- markms- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of bone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath In the leg the skin from the knee to the ankle-joint. At the inner and fore 8Upernda{ part is the tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp edge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted; and on each side of this the tuberosities of the bone are super- ficial. The internal tuberosity is a uniform rounded prominence ; but the external forms a marked projection at the outer and fore part of the knee. Below, the tibia ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half and the with more difficulty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles p^j?a 'n of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognized below the knee; and the lower end forma the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle-joint. At the sides of the ankle are the prominent malleoli, the external Ankle-joint, being nearer to the heel; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles and vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell Behind are of the calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it ^of the descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those t a muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the Achillis, edge of the tibia, but nearer the former, is placed the superficial vessels!8,1 part of the posterior tibial artery. In front, between th tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply; the posi- Ljne of tion of the vessel will be indicated by a line from a point midway ^*|rlior between the head of the fibula and the projection of the external vessels, tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about an inner inch and a half in front of the internal malleolus, is the tuberosity {^footf of the navicular bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation °° " (Chopart's) is practised ; while one inch and a half farther forwards is a slight depression marking the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the tuberosity of the fifth Outer metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the border- centre of the ankle-joint to the interval between the inner two toes, fr°™al will lie over the position of the main artery. " 0I/' Position. For the dissection of the back of the leg, the limb is to Position of be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting-tho purt- u u 2