487 CCELIAC AETEEY AND BEANCHES. defined ; this is a difficult task without the aid of someone to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries ; hut the origin of the portal trunk is to he made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The Cceliac Axis (fig. 149, c) is the first visceral branch of the Coeliacaxis abdominal aorta, and arises close to the upper margin of the opening threefoV*6 in the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch ^wing :— long, which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches— coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. The coronary artery (d) is the smallest of the three, and runs Coronary, upwards between the peritoneum and diaphragm to the cardiac whicu gives orifice of the stomach. Having furnished some oesophageal branches, it then bends downwards, and passes between the layers of the small omentum, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch (o) of the hepatic artery. Its offsets are thus distributed : — a. (Esophageal branches ascend on the gullet through the opening offsets to in the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the descending thoracic aorta. b. Gastric branches are given to both sides of the stomach, and those and the on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic stomach- artery. The splenic artery (e) is the largest branch of the cceliac axis Splenic in the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally artery to the spleen along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four to ten), which enter that viscus by the surface towards supplies the the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below sPleen' it; and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the pancreas the pancreas; and one of these (arteria pancreatica magna) arises smaUtwigSf near the left end, and runs to the right in the gland with the duct. 6. Gastric branches arise from the artery or its divisions near the and the spleen, and pass to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- stomac!l splenic omentum. Most of these {vasa brevia) are small, and wfa? ramify over the left end of the organ; but one larger branch, the left gastroepiploic artery (/), turns to the right between the layers and left of the great omentum, along the great curvature of the stomach, and gggj,, inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. The hepatic artery (g) is intermediate in size between the Hepatic other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its artury course to the liver, the vessel is directed at first to the right and theiiver° forwards to the pyloric end of the stomach, where it supplies its