538 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. and termi- nation in a branch to the back, and a branch to the wall of the ^ abdomen; The veins resemble the arteries, and open into the cava; left longer. A plexus around the transverse processes. Origin of azygos veins: entrance into thorax. bodies of the last dorsal and upper four lumbar vertebra, and beneath the pillar of the diaphragm and the psoas, to ceach the interval between the transverse processes, where each ends in an aodominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right, side lie beneath the vena cava. The posterior or dorsal branches continue to the back between the transverse processes, and supply offsets to the spinal canal (pp. 398, 414). The anterior or abdominal branches are directed outwards, and enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they are distributed (p. 453). The first lies with the last dorsal nerve across the front of the quadratus lumborum, but the others usually pass behind that muscle. Offsets are furnished to the psoas and quadratus muscles, and to the subperitoneal fat ; the last anastomose with branches of the renal, capsular, spermatic, right and left colic, and some other visceral arteries. The lumbar VEINS are the same in number, and have the same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse process, each trunk is directed forwards to the vena cava. They open into the back of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and pass beneath the aorta. Around the transverse processes, and beneath the psoas muscle, the lumbar veins communicate freely with one another, with the ilio-lumbar, and with the common iliac, so as to form a plexus of veins. Issuing above from the plexus is a branch, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding side of the body. Beginning of the azygos veins. The azygos vein begins on each side about the first lumbar vertebra by the above-mentioned ascending lumbar vein ; and it is often joined by a branch of communication with the inferior cava or the renal vein, efhe right vein enters the thorax usually with the thoracic drret and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left vein passes through the pillars of the diaphragm, or sometimes through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given at p. 365.