551 URETHRA AND PENIS. with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned ^ere^ downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body ; and from this point it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded bv voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntary i -i • n , t .. and mvo- thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue oi iUntary the prostate ; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor ™"^d it urethrae, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and below the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinse. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perineal liga-Slzu- ment (n), and lies between the layers ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. Dissection. The teguuientary covering of the penis may be com- Dissections pletely removed, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The skin should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The penis is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs in Consti- . tuciits fimi front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies situation oi (fig. 170, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled with antheiienis: areolar structure containing blood. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The icgumentary investment, which covers the whole, is noticed at p. 439. The body of the penis is rather prismatic in shape. The upper *^jJJnei, surface is slightly grooved along the middle line ; and the lower ' rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a larger groove between the corpora cavernosa. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament (p. 439). The corpus spongiosum urethra: encloses the urethral canal beyond Corpus the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a sPon8los'"" vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the .surrounds bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of ^1™;,?"'' the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 170, d) is directed backwards below the mem- the bulb, branous part of the urethra, and is firmly united to the under surface of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator ivrinso muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a slight central de- which is pression, with a bulging on each side, forming two lateral lobes. Mlobate, The glans penis (fig. 178, I) is somewhat conical in form, and and the covers the truncated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is ™""'fn.uiH directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border "'" ' —the corona glandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation, which contains the fold of skin named Jranum prceputii.