433 ANTERIOK HALF IN FEMALE. superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 422). Superficial fascia. The description of this fascia in the male will serve for the like part in the female, with these modifications :—that in the female it is interrupted in the middle bine, and is of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora to the inguinal region. In the labia the superficial fascia contains involuntary muscular fibres, like the dartos tunic of the scrotum, as well as fat. The superficial perineal vessels and nerves, and the inferior pudendal nerve have the same arrangement as in the male (p. 424) ; but they are distributed to the labia instead of to the scrotum. Dissection, The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same Fig. 136.* time, viz., the erector clitoridis lying along the ramus of the ischium, and the trans- versus perinei passing across the perineum to the central point. The sphincter vagina (bulbo - caver- nosas ; fig. 136, a) is an orbicular muscle aroimd the orifice of the vagina, and cor- responds to the ejacu- lator urinse in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perineum, where it blends with the sphincter ani and transversus muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris. The muscle covers the bulb of the vestibule and the gland of Bartholin by the side of the entrance to the vagina. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles, the sphincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles ; and it assists in fixing the central point of the perineum. The erector clitoridis (ischio-cavernosus) resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 425). The transversus perinei is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suffice for the muscle in both sexes (p. 426). Superficial fascia. Dartoid tissue. Superficial vessels and nerves. Dissection of the muscles. .Sphincter vagina?: origin; insertion relations ; and use. Erector clitoridis. Superficial transverse muscle. * Venous plexuses of the genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kohclt). A. Sphincter vagina muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nympha. a. Bulb of the vestibule. 6. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris, c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris. F F