12 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Directions. Dura mater in base of skull; its prolonga- tions, and connec- tions to bone. Tentorium cerebelli; surfaces, edges, and the sinuses in it, Falx cerebelli remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck lias been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow the spirit to penetrate its substance. The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this purpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it follows the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen caecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit ; and through the optic foramen a sheath is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. In the sella turcica the dura mater forms a recess which lodges the pituitary body, and behind the dorsum sella? it adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone. From the latter part it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly united. The tentorium cerebelli is the process of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum) and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is sloped laterally for the support of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the small brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex edge is connected to the following bones:— occipital (transverse groove), posterior inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus : and hi the attached edge are the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses on each side. The falx cerebelli has a corresponding position below the tentorium to the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the internal occipital crest, and projects between the henuspheres of the small brain. Its