70'J LIGAMENTS OF METATARSAL BONES. Fig. 222.* and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral union: In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- and joints in what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stawlin£- stretching of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four Union of the meta- outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, tarsus by and interosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 222) are small transverse bands from dorsal, the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments plantar, (fig. 220) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short transverse fibres between the con- tiguous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cunei- forms ; and the fourth is in contact inter- nally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with car- tilage ; and their synovial cavities are offsets of those serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its hase by any intervening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been described on page 680. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the like parts in the hand, as there is a metatarsus separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are Joint of encased by a capsule, and are provided with an upper and a lower toe longitudinal band to give strength to the joint: the lower band is separate placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis anticus from rest: ami peroneus longus. A simple synovial sac serves for the articulation. synovial The articular surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, sac' and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatarsal bone is exca- vated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone Motion up down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform and down' with the navicular bone ; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and eversion of the foot. synovial sacs. Great toe separate. Anterior ends. * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).