VESSELS OE THE FACE. 27 The principal Vessels op the Face (fig. 18) are the facial and Arteries of transverse facial arteries with their accompanying veins. The the faoe- arteries are hranches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery (fig. 18, </), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and crosses the base of the lower jaw immediately in !irt(;|'y ; front of the masseter muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous maimer, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner margin of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively course superficial in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At first it is concealed by the platysma while crossing the jaw, but an(1 rel.,. this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during tions- life; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which takes nearly a straight course, and lies to its outer side. Brandies. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches Plan of tin- are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anas- "ranches- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— The inferior labial branch (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor inferior anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower bp and lat,ial- chin ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r and s). These are one for each lip (superior Two and inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, fo™™*' and are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the arcii In mucous membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corres- each lip" ponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper bp a branch is given to each side of the septum Branch to narium,—artery of Hie septum. .septum. The lateral nasal branch (p) arises opposite the ala nasi, and Lateral passes beneath the levator labii superioris alaxjue nasi to the side of j^J,,, the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic artery. The angular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at Angular the inner angle of the orbit, and joins the nasal branch of the oph-1;ranch- thalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose in a vein named Facial vein angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and, separating from the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic away nun. muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in artcry: the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Brandies. At the mner side of the orbit the angular vein receives joined by veins from the upper eyelid (superior palpebral) and from the side l,ra,,oh(,;- of the nose. Below the orbit the facial trunk is joined by veins from the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral), as well as by a large