DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 304 which lies near carpal hones, and beneath muscles, with veiwe comites. Branches: recurrent; perforating; palmar in- terosseous. Digital ■branches : artery of the thumb : artery of the fore- linger. Deep branch of ulnar nerve: muscular offsets. Transverse ligament of metacarpus. The deep palmar arch (c) extends from the first interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal hone of the little finger, where it joins the tleep branch of the ulnar artery (6). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed downwards ; and its situation is nearer the carpal b..m-s than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in. the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the flexor brevis pollicis and opponens minimi digiti muscles. Two veins accompany it. The branches of the arch are the following :— . a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones and joints, and anasto- mose with the anterior carpal arteries. 6. Three perforating arteries pierce the inner three dorsal interos- seous muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which lie over the inner three metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the tinkers. An offset of the inner one, or a separate branch of the arch, joins the digital artery to the inner side of the little finger (p. 297). These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales : they vary much in their size and arrangement. </. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) runs between the first metacarpal bone and the flexor brevis pollicis to the interval between the heads of that muscle, where it divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb : these are distributed like the arteries of the superficial arch (p. 297). e. The radial digital branch of the index finger (d) is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle (j), and beneath the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the lower border of the adductor pollicis (d), this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch; and at the end of the digit it unites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the umar artery. The deep part OP the ulnar nerve (2) accompanies the arch of the radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates in offsets to the adductor pollicis and the deep part of the short flexor. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (3), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal LIGAMENT is formed by cross fibres uniting the palmar ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions of the fingers, and serves to bind together the heads of the inner four metacarpal bones. To its upper border the fascia cover- ing the interosseous muscles is attached. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interosseous muscles.