576 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. attached behind separately, blend together in front: butt). Structure: a case that sends in processes; fibres form strata; a septal piece, which is imperfect; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. Vessels. Fig. ISO.* the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process, crus penis, to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis for about an inch, and blends with its fellow in the body of the penis, about an inch and a half from its posterior extremity. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bidb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Each corpus cavernosum is composed of a fibrous case containing a cavernous or trabecular structure, with blood-spaces between the trabecular of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fib 'ous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 179), from half a line to a line in thickness. Along the middle of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer threads,—the trabecular of the spongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 179, b) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 179, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexifomi disposition; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meet- ing in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are inseparably miited by communicating bundles. The septal process (fig. 180) is placed ver- tically along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum pectiniforme is derived. Through the intervals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa com- municate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of fine threads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. The blood-vessels of the penis are of large size, and * Pectiniform septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, b. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which arc formed by the circular fibres.