TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE. 19 Action of the oblique muscles. The superior oblique acting alone Action of would draw the back of the eyeball upwards and inwards, and 5™s. therefore cause the front of the eye to be directed downwards and alone, outwards. The inferior oblique would similarly turn the eye up- wards and outwards. In consequence of their transverse direction, these muscles would also tend to rotate the eyeball around its antero-posterior axis, the superior oblique depressing, and the inferior oblique elevating the inner end of the horizontal meridian of the eye, but movements of this nature take place only to a very limited extent during life. The oblique muscles are believed to act mainly in controlling the and with tendency of the superior, and inferior recti to rotate the eyeball and and^nferior turn it inwards. Thus, to move the eye directly upwards, the recti- superior rectus and the inferior oblique are used, while the inferior rectus and superior oblique co-operate in directing the eye down- wards. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the remain- Seek tensor ing portion of the palpebral fascia is to be separated from the margin tarS1, of the orbit; but the lids must be left attached at the inner side by means of the internal tarsal ligament. On clearing away a little areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the inner commissure, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The tensor tarsi muscle arises from the crest of the lachrymal Tensor tarsi bone, and slightly from the bone behind the crest. Its fibres are uu,scle- pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the internal tarsal ligament, which divides like that structure into a slip for each eye- lid. In the lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and Insertion, blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsus. Action. The tensor tarsi draws backwards the inner can thus of Use. the eye and compresses the lachrymal sac, after it has been dilated by the orbicularis palpebrarum in the act of winking. Dissection. A small nerve, the orbital branch of the superior Trace offset maxillary trunk, lies along the lower part of the outer wall of the ^^^?yr orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal of the eye- nerve, ball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered, as it enters the orbit through the spheno-rnaxillary fissure, by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it; and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought close to the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The temporo-malar or orbital branch of the superior maxillary Orbital nerve arises in the spheno-rnaxillary fossa, and divides at the back ^^0°1 of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify on the maxillary face and the side of the head with companion vessels. nerve: The malar branch is directed forwards through the canal of the its malar same name in the malar bone to supply the skiu of the upper and E