323 ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other will he prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the connecting ligamentous hands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands imiting the metacarpal with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. Banes of the first row (fig. 98). The semilunar bone is united to the scaphoid and pyramidal by dorsal (d) and palmar transverse bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the pyramidal by a distinct capsule and synovial sac. It has farther two special ligaments ; one of these is attached to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The bones of the second row (fig. 98) are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal (€) and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between FlS- 98-* the contiguous rough sur- faces of the several bones are interosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of ghduag motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flat- tened articidar surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another; and this is less in the se- cond than in the first rowr. One row with another (transverse carpal joint; fig. 98). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament (p) consists of strong fibres, which for the most part converge from the three bones of the first row to the os magnum. The posterior ligament is thinner and looser ; and its strongest fibres are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (k) is the better marked, and t extends between os trapezium and scaphoid bone ; the internal (I) passes from the pyramidal to the unciform bone. Dissection of carpal and meta- carpal joints. How first row is united. Separate ligaments of pisiform bone. Second row is like first. A gliding movement. Transverse carpal joint: anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. * Articulations of the carpal bones, the joint between the two rows being opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. b. Semilunar, c. Pyramidal, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium. /. Trapezoid, g. Os magnum, h. Unciform, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral ligament, p. Anterior ligament. T 2