451 SPERMATIC CORD. way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac j"*™^ spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin ring, a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia (infundibuliform fascia) is continued around the cord as before said. Dissection. The tubular prolongation on the cord may be traced ^section by cutting the transversalis fascia horizontally above the opening of pr0ce.sson the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle cord- of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The "subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the transversalis fjjjjtofjj. fascia and the peritoneum. Its thickness varies much in different in groin.' bodies, but is greater at the lower than at the upper part of the abdomen. This structure will be more specially noticed in the ex- amination of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be re- Trace re- flected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum along the peritoneum, cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects ^j™^"!]} forwards slightly opposite the internal abdominal ring. Connected is prolonged with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation on the cord : to the testis in the foetus) which extends a variable distance along the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be fol- piece may lowed only a very short way ; but it may sometimes be traced as a yionsf81 fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated or s'accu- at intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front ' ' of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum receiv- or open, ing the testis in the foetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the foetal tube of peritoneum sometimes remains In female pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament ; the partly open, unobliterated pouch is named the canal of Nuck. The spermatic cord (fig. 142, f) extends from the internal abdo- Spermatic minal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through which they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquelv, since its is °Mique in . f . .... .. the abdomi- aperture ot entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit nal wall, from, the muscles; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. In the oblique part of its an<l vertical course it is contained in the passage named the inguinal canal; it is beyond; placed at first beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the transversalis fascia ; but beyond the lower border of the oblique relations; muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from the strata in the wall of the coverings, abdomen. Thus, from within out come—the subperitoneal fat, the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, the cremaster muscle continuous with the internal oblique, the intercolumnar or on 2