DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. :".3G Two cu- taneous branches 1 lio-hypo gastric: i-ourse in abdomen. IliOringuinf arises witli preceding, and accom- panies it. OrllitO- ci'ural pierces psoas, and divides Ulto genital and crnral branch. Course of external cutaneous to the (high. Origin of anterior crural: position in the abdomen : its branches to iliacus, to femoral artery. Obturator spermatic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the buttock, the lower part of the abdomen, and the scrotum. a. The ilio-hypogastric branch (fig. 167,/) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near tin- upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumbonun to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by piercing the transversalis muscle. Its termination in the integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 450). 1 b. The ilio-inguinal branch (</) arises with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 450). c. The genito-crural nerve (h) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two; issuing from the front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into the two folloAving pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets around it: it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crnral branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 603). d. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the loop between the second and third nerves, and appears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous processes, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be dis- tributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 603). e. The anterior crural nerve (k) is the largest offset of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee- joint, and to the integuments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the second, third and fourth nerves, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament ; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 622), the nerve sends off the following twigs :— Some small branches to the iliacus are furnished from the outer side of the nerve. A branch to the femoral artery, the place of origin of which varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. /. The obturator nerve (?<) is distributed chiefly to the adductor