494 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. up the stomach. Form, size, and divisions. Left end, and right. Cardiac and pyloric openings. Surfaces. Small curvature, and large. Four strata in stomach. The serous coat is thin and adhe- rent. The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, circular, rately, and the surface cleaned ; but, previously, let the student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodenum close to the pylorus. Form and divisions. The stomach is rather pyriform in shape, and in its natural condition strongly curved (fig. 144). Its Bize varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction to the right of the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four- wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curvatures to be examined. The left end is called the fundus or great cul-de-sac, and projects upwards to the left of the end of the oesophagus. The right or pyloric end is much smaller, and taj^ers to the duodenum. The cardiac opening, which communicates with the oesophagus, is placed two or three inches from the most prominent part of the fundus, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The pyloric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus) : at this spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular thickening may be felt. The anterior and posterior surfaces are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but rounded when it is distended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 467). The upper border or small curvature is concave, except for a short distance at the pyloric end. The lower border or large curvature is much longer, convex, and when the organ is distended forms at the pyloric end a slight projection to the right, which has been named the small cul-de-sac. An arterial arch and a fold of peritoneum (omentum) are connected with each border. Structure. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous; and belonging to these there are vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval exists corresponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in those spaces are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. Its fibres are unstriated or involuntary, and arranged in three sets, viz., longitudinal, circular, and oblique, hi the order men- tioned from without inwards. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 151, a) are derived from the oesopha- gus ; they spread over the surface, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach. The circular fibres (fig. 151, b) form the middle stratum, and will be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the left to the right end of the stomach ; but at