306 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. as abductors and adduc- tors. Dissection. Annular ligament of front of wrist. Dissection. Insertion of flexor carpi radialis. The interosseous muscles also separate and approximate the straightened fingers, the palmar set adducting the index, ring and little fingers towards the middle digit; while the dorsal abducl their fingers from the median line of the hand, the two fixed to the middle finger moving it to either side of that line. Dissection. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal hones on each side are next to he dissected out by taking away the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. Before reading its description, the ends of the cut ligament maybe placed in appo- sition, and fixed with a stitch. The anterior annular ligament is a broad band, which arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached internally to the pisiform and unciform hones, and ex- ternally to the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium, as well as by a deeper process to the trapezoid bone on the inner side of the groove for the flexor carpi radialis. By its upper border it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and on its anterior surface it is joined by the palmar fascia. Over it lie the palmaris longus tendon and the ulnar vessels and nerve. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to its insertion into the metacarpal bones, by dividing the overlying part of the anterior annular ligament. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the trapezium between the attachments of the annular ligament, hut outside the arch of that band ; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. Position. Take away the super- ficial nerves and the fascia. Strip fingers. Separate muscles. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. During the dissection of the hack of the forearm the limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 91). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third. A thickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument he removed from the fingers, iu order that the tendons may he traced to the end of the digits. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to their origin, especially the t wo radial extensors of the wrist,