587 BLADDER AND URETHRA IN FEMALE. The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularly "u°ous at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued .g cnntinu. into the mucous lining of the uterus, hut at the outer end it joins ous with ° peritoneum. the peritoneum. The blood-vessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form of the female bladder have Anatomy been detailed in the description of the relations of the viscera of the 0 a er' female pelvis (p. 555). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 569). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and re- Preparation move the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular of lt} • fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and iirethra has been open t. learnt, they are to be slit open along the fore part. Urethra. The length and the relations of the excretory tube are urethra : given at p. 555. length; The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder : near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant ^ can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the 5™°n, ,. , . dilated, correspondmg passage m the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tubelike coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and by mus- male."1 1 cular fibre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its Muscular fibres are circular, corresponding with those in the prostatic en- cufar°flbre"s. largement of the other sex, and continuous above with the middle layer of the bladder. In the perineal ligament this stratum is covered by the fibres of the deep transverse muscle (p. 434). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the ooat: . canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 572). SooiV"*116 Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles; and towards the follicles an inner end are tubular mucous glands, the apertures of which are 8lantls- arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues Submucous lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. tissue. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Preparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and of rectum, the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; Rectum like and the student may use the description in the Section on the of the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 578). ma°'