DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 256 which give branches: from the outer, inner, and posterior cord. The follow- ing are seen now, viz.— Two anterior thoracic: outer, and inner. Three .sub- scapular : to subsca- pularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major. Nerve to serratus. Latissimus dorsi: insertion. Dissection of the ser- ratus. edge of the small pectoral muscle, the cords divide to form the large nerves of the limb.. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle arise from the several cords in the following way :— The outer cord furnishes one anterior thoracic branch (eat), the musculocutaneous (mc), and the outer head of the median nerve (m). The inner cord gives origin to a second anterior thoracic nerve (iat), the internal cutaneous (ic), the nerve of Wrisberg (w), the inner head of the median (m), and the ulnar nerve (u). The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches (si, s2, and s3), and ends in the circumflex (c) and musculo-spiral (ms) trunks. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are exposed to their termination at present; the remaining nerves will be seen in the subsequent dissections. The anterior thoracic branches (fig. 73, 1 and 2), two in number, are named outer and inner, like the cords from which they come. The outer nerve crosses over the axillary artery, to the under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch. The inner nerve comes forwards between the artery and vein, and after receiving the offset from the outer, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subscapular nerves are three in number, and supply the muscles bounding the axilla behind :■— The upper nerve is the smallest, and enters the upper part of the subscapularis muscle. The middle or long subscapular nerve accompanies the subscapular artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and supplies the latissimus dorsi muscle. The lower subscapular nerve gives a branch to the lower part of the subscapularis muscle, and ends in the teres major. Another branch of the plexus, the posterior thoracic nerve or nerve to the serratus lies on the inner side of the axilla (fig. 73, 4). It arises above the clavicle from the fifth, sixth and seventh cervical nerves (p. 73 ; fig. 74, pt), and descends behind the axillary vessels to reach the outer surface of the serratus magnus muscle. The latissimus dorsi muscle (g) may be examined as far as it enters into the posterior wall of the axilla. Arising from the spinal column and the back of the trunk, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove, by a tendon one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a bursa intervenes between them near the insertion. Dissection. To lay bare the serratus magnus, the arm is to be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through opposite the third rib ; and the fat and connective tissue should be cleaned from the muscular fibres.