DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 244 and inter- costal nerves; nerve of Wrisberg. Cutaneous nerves of cervical plexus. Cutaneous branches of intereostals in two rows, One near middle line. The other on side of the chest; these have anterior and posterior branches. One reaches the arm. Third nerve. the middle, and the inner end. Others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of tlie sternum,—one from each inter- costal space. And the rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about an inch behind the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from eacli intercostal space except the first: as the last-mentioned nerves pierce the wall of the thorax, they divide into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branches of the highest two nerves are larger than the rest. They are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junc- tion is to be found there with a branch (nerve of "Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus. These cross the clavicle and are distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger, cross the middle of the clavicle,* and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major ; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves. The cutaneous nerves op the thorax are derived from the . trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these there are two sets :—One set, lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise from those nerves about midway between the spine and the sternum. The other set, anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the termi- nations of the same trunks at the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces. The anterior cutaneous nerves are slender filaments which pierce the pectoral muscle, and are directed outwards to supply the skin and the mammary gland. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch from the cervical plexus. Small branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (fig. 72) issue with companion vessels between the digitations of the serratus magnus muscle, and divide into anterior and > posterior branches. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve from the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets (°) bend over the pectoral muscle, and end in the integuments and the mammary gland-: they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk commonly wants the anterior offset. The posterior offsets (3) end in the integuments over the latis- simus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above down. The branch of the second intercostal nerve (7) is larger than the rest, and is named intercosto-humeral. Perforating the fascia of the axilla, it is distributed to the skin of the arm (p. 272). As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is con- nected to the nerve of Wrisberg (6) by a filament of variable size.^ The branch of the third intercostal nerve gives filaments likewise to the arm-pit and the inner side of the arm.