CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is tlie part of the general abdominal space Definition situate below the brim of the true pelvis (p. 466). tion.bltUa" Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm ring of the Boundaries; pelvic bones : it is bounded behind by the sacrum and coccyx, with behind and the pyriformes muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments; andbcfore > laterally and in front, by the hip-bones covered by the internal obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perineum, the cavity is limited by the below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this direction, where the bounding structures are to some extent moveable, that the size of the space can be appreciably altered. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the urinary bladder with the Contents, beginning of the urethra, the lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, according to the sex. The viscera are supplied with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. Lining the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which Outline of covers the obturator internus and pyriformis muscles, and sends a f^l ft¥s^ °r process inwards to support the viscera. 6 Pe V'S' Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the external iliac steps to do- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- "!le pel- turn of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side vlcfascm: of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the Pelvis» wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a quantity of fat. By this proceeding the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as the situation of the portion (recto-vesical) which is directed inwards to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the