LOBES OF THE LIVER. surface before alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. . , Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded ; and the left is thin and flattened. , Lobes On the under and posterior surfaces the liver is divided primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the anteroposterior or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying part of the right lobe are three others, viz., the quadrate, Spigelian, and caudate lobes. The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right ; on its posterior aspect is a groove (cesophageal groove; fig. 158, a g) which lodges Me. 158.* 507 Extremities. Lobes are live, two large, and three small. Left lobe impressed by oesopha- gus and stomach. the lower end of the oesophagus, and widens out below into a hollow for the stomach (gastric impression; g i) occupying the greater part of the under surface of the lobe ; but next to the longitudinal fissure is a considerable elevation (omental tuberosity, His ; o t), which lies against the small omentum and the lesser curvature of the stomach. The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is separated Right lobe from the left by the longitudinal fissure below and behind, and by lireS('"ts the suspensory ligament above. The under surface has a fossa for fossa for gall-bladder, * The liver, viewed from below and slightly from behind (after His). Sub- divisions and markings : On the left lobe—ce g. Oesophageal groove, g i. Gastric impression, o t. Omental tuberosity. On the right lobe—51. Spigelian lobe. cl. Caudate lobe, q I. Quadrate lobe. sri. Suprarenal impression. d i. Duodenal impression, r j. Renal impression, ci. Colic impression. Vessels, &c. : vc. Inferior vena cava, p v. Portal vein. ha. Hepatic artery. b d. Common bile-duct: the last three occupy the portal [fissure. 11. Liga- mentum teres, lying in the fore part of the longitudinal fissure, gb. Gall- bladder. Cut edges of peritoneum : so. The two layers of the small omentum, icl. The inferior layer of the coronary ligament, rll. Right lateral ligament. * Surface uncovered by peritoneum.