217 HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR. of the opposite side. It is lined by a prolongation of the ependyma, which is thus continued from one ventricle to the other. The student may leave untouched for the present the velum interpositum, and proceed to examine the bodies which have been enumerated in the Moor of the posterior and descending comua. The hippocampus minor or calcar avis (fig. 63, i) is a spindle- Hippocam- shaped prominence on the inner side of the posterior cornu of the Pusnunor> lateral ventricle. If it is cut across, it will be seen to be formed by the calcarine fissure pushing outwards the wall of the cavity formed by (p. 210), and beneath the white layer is the cortical grey substance nssm-e"0 passing from the uncinate convolution to the cuneate lobule at the bottom of the fissure. The hippocampus major (fig. 63, I) is the large convex eminence ffippocam- in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and like pua 1"'l|ni- that is curved, with the concavity directed inwards. Its anterior extremity, which is named pes hippocampi, is somewhat enlarged, and presents two or three indentations, resembling the foot of a feline animal. Along the inner margin of the hippocampus is the tccuia hippo- Taenia hippo- campi or fimbria (fig. 64, c), which is prolonged from the fornix ; this ends below by joining the small recurved part of the uncinate convolution (p. 211). Dissection. To examine more fully the hippocampus, the hinder Dissection, portions of the corpus callosum and fornix should be divided in the middle line, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be seen. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a Structure thin medullary layer, with which the taenia blends. On its opposite campus? surface is the hollow of the hippocampal fissure of the exterior of the brain, which is lined by grey substance. Beneath the taenia hippocampi the grey matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata: this is external to the cavity of the ventricle, and has been named the dentate convolution (p. 212). The eminentia collateralis (fig. 63, Jc) is the triangular, slightly Collateral convex surface occupying the floor of the posterior and descending emmence' comua of the lateral ventricle to the outer side of the hippocampi. It lies over the collateral fissure of the under surface of the hemi- formed by sphere ; and its extent varies greatly in different subjects. nssure.'"1 Transverse fissure of tlie cerebrum. By drawing the separated Great trans- part of the right hemisphere away from the cms cerebri and the verse Rssure optic thalamus, and replacing it, the. dissector will comprehend the position and boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix ; and in the dissected brain is beneath opens into the lateral ventricle along the edge of the fornix on each rra&base side, from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending of bl!lin- cornu. The slit opening into the lateral ventricle is bounded by the edge of the fornix with the taenia hippocampi on the one side,