116 DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Left subclavian artery differs ranch from right subclavian in the first part. Relations to sur- rounding parts. Veins. Position of nerves. Itcst.of artery. Branches resemble those of right vessel. Thoracic duct cumes from the thorax and jpips veins. vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill ; and it will be found about half an inch above the clavicle, crossing behind the internal jugular vein, and then bending downwards to end in the angle between the latter and the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle is to remain articulated, in order that the joint may afterwards be studied. The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the first rib in its course to the upper limb. With this difference on the two sides in the origin of the subclavian—the one vessel beginning opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax—it is evident that the length and relations of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus anticus must also differ on the two sides. First part. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus is much longer on the left than the right side. It ascends nearly vertically from its origin to the level of the first rib, and then bends somewhat abruptly outwards over the top of the lung. On leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the (.esophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on the right side, viz., the integuments with the platysma and deep fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct ; and the pleura is in contact with the outer and posterior surfaces. Its rela- tions lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular and vertebral veins, as well as the beginning of the innomhiate, are in front of this part of the artery. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel instead of across it as on the right side; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the chest. The second and third parts of the artery, viz., beneath and beyond the scalenus, are essentially the same as on the right side (p. 68). The brandies of this artery resemble so closely those of the right trunk, that one description will serve for both (pp. 69 to 71). It may be remarked that the superior intercostal of the left side is usually internal to, instead of beneath the scalenus as on the right, side ; in other words, this branch arises sooner. The thoracic duct (fig. 28,8) conveys the chyle and lymph of the <rreater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping from the thorax on the left side of the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as high as the seventh cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, arching outwards and downwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the anterior scalenus muscle and phrenic nerve, to open into the angle of junction of the subclavian