70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular artery: Transverse cervical artery. offsets: size and ending vary Inferior thyroid artery gives laryn- geal offset, and ascend- ing cervical branch. Veins cor- responding to arteries. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is here superficial, and descends over the subclavian artery to join the innominate vein ; it receives the dee}} cervical vein, and the branch (anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the innominate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. As the artery dis- appears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen; and its anatomy will be learnt with the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axis. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 16) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the back of the shoulder. The suprascapular branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior border of the scapida, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the back. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See the dissection of the back.) In its course outwards through the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the parts in the posterior triangle. In many bodies the transverse branch arising from the thyroid axis is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, while the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the siibclavian trunk (fig. 16). The inferior thyroid, branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body, this branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. Behind the lower part of the thyroid body it divides into branches which ramify in that organ, and communicate with the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryngeal branch is directed upwards with the nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea and the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards between the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. The veins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and