DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 738 Arteries nre branches of carotids. From inter- nal maxil- lary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, interior palatine, internal carotid. Nerves from several sources. Dissection to prepare Hie nerves; outside tympanic cavity, and inside cavity. watery fluid ; but in the lower end of the Eustachian tube it is thick and more vascular, and is provided with numerous glands. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished from the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxil- lary, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal; and some offsets come from the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veins join the pterygoid plexus, and the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery supplies an anterior tympanic branch (fig. 232, d ; p. 88), which enters the cavity through the Glase- rian fissure, and furnishes a branch to the membrane of the tympanum; The middle meningeal artery also sends fine twigs to the upper part of the tympanum through small apertures in the roof of the cavity. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 80), entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, pos- terior tympanic (fig. 232, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the mem- brana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the in- ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the Eustachian tube. One or two minute branches of the internal carotid artery reach the anterior wall of the tympanum from the carotid canal (p. 105). Nerves. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 235). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glossopharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. 107). Sup- posing the nerve to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued ;—two of these, arching forwards, pass to the sympathetic on the carotid artery and to the Eustachian tube ; and two others are directed upwards beneath the tensor tympani muscle. The course of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles.