73 BEACHIAL PLEXUS. upper trunk ; the seventh remains distinct and constitutes a middle trunk ; and the eight cervical and first dorsal join beneath the anterior scalenus in a lower trunk. Near the outer border of the middle scalenus these three trunks bifurcate, each giving off an anterior and a posterior division. As they pass beneath the clavicle the anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks join to form the outer cord of the plexus ; the posterior divisions of the three trunks by their union give rise to the posterior cord; while the large anterior division of the lower trunk is continued as the inner cord. The three cords accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where the nerves of the limb arise. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those Branches above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Those of the upper set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the in the neck scapula; while the lower set consists of the branches to the upper aie :— limb, with which they will be described. Branches above the clavicle. Brandies for the scaleni and Nerves of 1*1 longus colli muscles. These small twigs arise from the nerves close longus* colli to the intervertebral foramina, and are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided. The branch for the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve, Nerve of and perforates the fibres of the scalenus medius ; it is directed rnomlMids. backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulas to its destination. Branches are given usually from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulas. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) arises from the Nerve of fifth, sixth, and generally also the seventh, nerves near the inter- serratus- vertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued downwards behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on its axillary surface. The branch for the subclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises Nerve of from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed subclavius- downwards over the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The suprascapular nerve is the largest of these branches, and arises Suprascapu- from the trunk of the plexus formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. lar nerve- It is destined for the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset from the fifth cervical trunk joins the Offset to the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. phrenic. The cervical plexus, formed by the upper four cervical nerves, Cervical lies beneath the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the plexus- middle scalenus and the levator anguli scapulas. Each nerve entering the plexus, except the first, divides into an ascending and Arrange- a descending branch, and these unite with corresponding parts of mentof thc the adjacent nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From nerves' these arches or loops the different branches arise:—