190 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. restiform body. pair, Willis) has a surface attaclnnent outside the foregoing to the restiform body, and to the floor of the fourth ventricle. and outer auditory nuclei. Deep origin Deep origin. At its attachment to the medulla oblongata the auditory from toner nerve cousists of two roots, upper and lower. The fibres of the upper root run backwards through the lowest part of the pons to the outer auditory nucleus beneath the lateral angle of the fourth ventricle, and some fibres arc said to pass outwards to the cerebellum. The lower root is partly connected with the inner auditory nucleus, beneath the auditory tubercle in the floor of the fourth ventricle, by means of fibres passing backwards on the inner side of the restiform body ; and another part is continued superficially round the outer side of the restiform body to the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it gives rise to the auditory strise, but the central origin of these fibres is un- known. Ninth nerve below facial: The ninth or glossopharyngeal nerve (first trunk of the eighth pair, Willis) leaves the medulla oblongata by five or six fila- ments close below the facial nerve, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. nucleus in floor of fourth ventricle. Deep origin. Directed backwards through the medulla oblongata, the fibres join a nucleus beneath the inferior fovea in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Tenth nerve The TENTH, VAGUS Or PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE (second trunk of belowninth: tjie ejghtn "Willis,8) issues by a number of filaments (twelve to fifteen) from the medulla oblongata in a line with, and below the glosso-pharyngeal. nucleus beneath fourth ventricle. Eleventh nerve in two pieces; accessory from medulla oblongata, spinal from cord. Deep origin. Taking a similar course in the medulla oblongata to the roots of the ninth nerve, the fibres of the vagus reach their nucleus in the calamus scriptorius of the fourth ventricle. The eleventh or spinal ACCESSORY nerve (third trunk of the eighth pair, Willis) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and is formed by the union of slender filaments continuing the line of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves along the medulla oblongata, as low as the first cervical nerve. After communicating with the spinal part in the jugular foramen, it throws itself into the vagus nerve outside the skull (P- U1)- The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it enters the skull by the foramen magnum. Both from j)eep origin. The fibres of both accessory and spinal parts have been one nucleus. trace(j jnwar(js to an elongated column of cells reaching from the lower third of the olivary body to the level of the fifth cervical nerve, and situate in the spinal part of its extent in the outer part of the anterior horn of the grey