182 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. and inner tlie back °f tlie oartilage) and tlie others join the inferior constrictor. circular. T^e internal layer is formed of circular fibres, which are continuous with those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. Mouth. Form, and bounda- ries. Vestibule. Lining of the mouth differs in parts: on roof, floor, cheek, and lips. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. Mouth. The cavity of the mouth extends from the lips in front to the anterior pillars of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw-bone. When the lower jaw is mode- rately removed from the upper, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof, concave, is constituted by the hard and soft palate, and is limited in front and on the sides by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, surrounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath that body is the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips ; and the posterior is the isthmus faucium (p. 127), leading into the pharynx. The space between the lips and the teeth is often distinguished from the rest of the cavity as the vestibule of the mouth. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than tbe soft boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. In front it is continuous with the skin, and behind with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium cover- ing the membrane is scaly and stratified. Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the membrane forms a small fold.—frsenidum. Over the bony part of the roof it blends with the dense tissue enclosing the vessels and nerves; on the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner. Along the middle of the roof is a slightly raised raphe", which ends in front opposite the anterior palatine fossa in a small papilla ; and on each side of this, at the fore part of the hard palate, there are two or three irregular transverse ridges. In the floor of the mouth the membrane forms the fraenum linguae beneath the tip of the tongue, and on each side of the fraenum it is raised into a ridge by the sub- lingual gland, at the fore part of which is a small papilla, perforated by the opening of Wharton's duct. On the interior of the cheek and Hps the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands.