CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section I. Position of the brain. Outline of cranial mass. Medulla oblongata. Pons Varolii and its connections. Cerebellum. Cerebrum, and its great divisions. Weight of brain. Three membranes. MEMBRANES AND VESSELS. During the examination of the membranes, vessels, and nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Subdivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the membranes and vessels is given, the chief subdivisions of the en- cephalon may be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system (fig. 59) consists of cerebrum, or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the folloAving situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord (fig. 59, a), lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, ami is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii (fig. 59, d) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates a separation into halves. Above it are two large processes (crura cerebri, /) connecting it to the great brain ; and on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli). The cerebellum (fig. 59, b), or the small brain, is separated into two hemispheres by a median groove; and its surface is marked by concentric lamina?. The cerebrum (fig. 59, r and p), or the large brain, is divided into hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and each half is farther subdivided into two by a transverse cleft—the fissure of Sylvius. The surface of the hemispheres is convoluted. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres, and in front of the pons, are several small bodies which will be afterwards enumerated. The average weight of the brain in the European male is about 49 oz. ; in the female about 44 oz. Membranes op the Brain. The coverings of the brain (meninges) are three in number, viz., dura mater, pia mater, and arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, which