231 STRUCTURE OF LAMINJE. medullary centre stricted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structure op the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum ^eMium consists of a large white mass—the medullary centre, from which a white onsets proceed to the laminae and to other parts of the encephalon. The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the processes to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellum) issue from it, by a superficial layer of grey substance—the cortex of J£*P*y the cerebellum; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded in it. Structure of the lamince. The lamina} are seen in the section that Lracmi"f has been made of the under part of the left hemisphere to consist of externally, a grey external portion enveloping a white centre (fig. 65). The ^Jnhite grey matter is subdivided into two layers, the superficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust-colour. The white part is derived from the medullar}7 centre, which sends off numerous processes to the lobes and the bodies composing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets which enter the several laminae. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with D'sscetn its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the lamina? from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and posterior lobes of the upper aspect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. The medullary centre of the cerebellum forms a large oval mass in white each hemisphere, but is flattened and narrow in the middle between centru * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the inferior medullary velum, a. Uvula, b. In- ferior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Flocculus. d. Furrowed band. e. Pyramid. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside. g. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior surface.