5 CUTANEOUS AETEJRIES. of the muscle will be seen, and its action explained, in the dissection of the pterygoid region. Dissection. For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face he now turned to the left side, and let an incision be bright"" carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind skle- the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. The flap of the skin is to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves seek nerves which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supraorbital vessels ^dt^|ssels and nerve about the middle, and the supratrochlear nerve and forehead, frontal vessels near the inner angle of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the muscular fibres of the frontalis, which must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial on the side temporal vessels and nerve are to be traced upwards ; and above the of 116 eat' zygomatic arch the branches of the facial which join an offset (10) of the superior maxillary nerve are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the pinna are to be found ; one or more offsets of the last should be followed to the junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, at the back and the large and small occipital nerves should be denuded ; the of lhe lieaJ" former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. Cotaneous Arteries. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2) are vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid trunks, and anasto-tl,e scalr' mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supraorbital and frontal, come from the former; while three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, are derived from the latter. The supraorbital artery (c) leaves the orbit through the notch Supraorbi- in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some ta 13' of its branches are superficial to the frontalis and supply the skin ; while others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The frontal artery (b) is close to the inner angle of the orbit, Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for ni'tei'y- the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY (fZ) is One of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After crossing the zygortta j^poral immediately in front of the ear, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forwards with a serpentine course to anterior and the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supraorbital artery ; this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery.