ARCH OF THE AORTA. 35 :i reaches as high as the upper border,of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the peri- cardium. The pulmonary artery is at first superficial to it, but afterwards lies on its left side. Behind it are the left auricle of the heart and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. On the right side is the descending cava. Near the heart Fig. 103.* the vessel bulges oppo- site the flaps of the valve ('sinuses of Valsalva ; fig. 108). There is some- times another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of Hie aorta. The second or trans- verse part recedes from the sternum, and reaches from the second right costal cartilage to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra on the left side. It rests upon the trachea, the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in front of this part of the artery are the vagus, phrenic, and superficial cardiac nerves of the left side,—the first nerve sending backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the left innominate vein (g), to which the left upper intercostal vein (i) is directed over the left side of the arch ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. From it arise the three great vessels of the head and upper limbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending from the lower edge of the fourth to that of the fifth dorsal ver- tebra. It lies against the fifth vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the fourth, and is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the root of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. The branches of the arch of the aorta are five in number: two come from the ascending, and three from the transverse part. The first two are the coronary arteries of the heart (o), which have already been noticed (p. 340). The other three are much larger, * Arch of the aorta and its great branches, a. Aortic arch. b. Innominate artery, c. Left common carotid, d. Left subclavian. c. Ligament of arterial duct. /. Vena cava superior, g. Left innominate vein. h. Right innominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. k. Large azygos vein. /. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary artery. A A length and relations. relations : gives origin to large vessels. Third part is without branches. Objects con- tained in the arch. Five branches of the arch.