439 SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF PENIS. near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's liga- g^unflex ment, and sends only a few onsets upwards to the abdomen. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous Veins, vein of the thigh. The lymphatic glands of the groin are three or foiu- in num- iuguinai ber, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed glan between the strata of the superficial fascia ; and receive lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and from the super- ficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass down- dnetsenter wards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. a Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fascia with its Dissection vessels and nerves, the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings °,f p^nf of the penis and scrotum. The skin should be divided along the testicle, dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The penis Tegumen- is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory ligament, and iSgof°poni.s is provided with a tegumentary covering continuous with that of the ^^^J* abdomen, but devoid of fat. Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the ba3e of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prepuce ; it is forms afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous mem-I)rei>nce brane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, frcenum prceputii. and franuni. Where the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with Sebaceous that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papilla?, ° and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandula odoriferas. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin Teguments become united in a thin membrane of a reddish colour. The m 3crotum- prolongation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches, coming in contact in. the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the Muscular perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the fa£ja?of corrugation of the skin is owing. This contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue from the root of the Dissection penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament and m?vc«. will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissue, Suspensory