RELATIONS OP INTESTINE. diaphragm, pressing on the heart and left lung ; the great curvature moves to the left and downwards, as well as somewhat forwards ; and the pyloric extremity is earned to the right. The small intestine reaches from the stomach to the right iliac Small region, where it ends in the large intestine. It is arbitrarily j,° ^ antl divided into three parts,—duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. divisions. The duodenum, comprises the first nine or ten inches (twelve Duodenum lingers' breadths) of the small intestine. By raising the liver it beginning, may be traced from the pyloric end of the stomach, at first back- wards, and then downwards, until it disappears beneath the trans- verse colon. If the great omentum, with the attached transverse colon, be turned up over the margin of the thorax, and the mass of and ending small intestine be drawn to the right, the end of the duodenum will be seen on the left of the spine. It here ascends for a short dis- tance, and at the level of the second lumbar vertebra passes into the jejunum, forming a sharp bend forwards and downwards, which is named the duodeno-jejunal flexure. The relations of the duodenum to be fully cannot, however, be satisfactorily seen at present, and they will be seenlater- examined at a later stage (p. 485). The jejunum and ileum include the remainder of the small intes- Jejunum tine, two-fifths belonging to the jejunum and three-fifths to the ileum, and ile"'" : but there is no natural division between them. This part of the situation; intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the umbilical, hypo- gastric, lumbar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends commonly, but more extensively in the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutions is the great omentum ; and relations; behind, they are fixed to the spine by a large fold of peritoneum named the mesentery, which contains the vessels and nerves. The end of termination of the ileum ascends slightly from the pelvis to the ileum- right iliac fossa, crossing the external iliac vessels and the psoas muscle, to open into the large intestine at a spot a little to the outer side of the sacro-iliac articulation. The large intestine or colon is more fixed than the jejunum Large and ileum, from which it is to be distinguished by its sacculated j^f^f: appearance, and by its being furnished with small processes of peri- anguished; toneum containing fat—the appendices ejnploicm. It begins in the course right iliac region in a rounded part or head (csecum), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac and lumbar regions. Then crossing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypochondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latter. Finally, and extent, it descends, on the left side, through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sig- moid flexure) in the left iliac fossa; then becoming straighter (rectum) it passes through the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It is divided into six parts, viz., csecum, ascending colon, trans- Divisions, verse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The ccecum (caput caecum coli; fig. U4, cce) is placed in the Caecum: right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament. When position •