DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 136 Lower meatus. A fourth meatus sometimes. Narcs. Mucous lining of the nose. Some fora- mina closed, others diminished by it. Folds on spongy bones. Three regions of nasal fossa. Vestibule. as the hard palate. The free border of the middle turbinate bone being curved upwards anteriorly, this meatus is open in front as well as below. On raising the overhanging turbinate bone, a deep groove will be seen in the fore part of the lateral wall of the meatus, bounded below by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, and leading upwards through the infundibulum of the latter bone to the frontal sinus. Into the groove lower down the anterior ethmoidal cells open, and at its hindmost part is a small aperture leading into the antrum of the superior maxilla. In some cases there is a second opening into the antrum close above the lower turbinate bone. The inferior meatus (fig. 32,8) is wider than the middle one, and extends the whole length of the hard palate. Near its anterior extremity is the opening of the nasal duct. Occasionally there is a small rudimentary or fourth meatus above the superior turbinate bone (fig. 32,3), which communicates with a posterior ethmoidal cell. The nam. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a distinct anterior opening on the face, and another in the pharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common opening in front for both sides. These apertures and their boundaries have been before described (pp. 30 and 125). The mucous lining of the nasal fossa is called the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane, and is blended with the subjacent perios- teum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin at the nostril, with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior naris, and with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct; and it sends prolongations to line the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. The apertures in the dry bone winch transmit nerves and vessels, viz., the incisor and spheno-palatine foramina, the holes in the cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane ; and the openings leading to the sinuses are reduced in size by the prolongations passing through them. At the termination of the nasal duct the mucous mem- brane forms a single or double fold, which is sometimes sufficient to close the opening and prevent air entering the canal from the nose. Over the middle and lower turbinate bones, and to a greater extent on the latter, the mucous membrane is thickened and pro- jected beyond the edges of the bones by the large submucous vessels, so that the meatuses are deeper and longer in the recent state than in the dried skull. The. appearance and structure of the Hning membrane differ in the upper and lower parts of the nasal fossa, and near the anterior opening, whence a division of the cavity is made into three portions, which are termed respectively the olfactory region, the respiratory region, and the vestibule. The vestibule (fig. 32,10) is the slightly dilated portion of the cavity immediately within the nostril. It is bounded by the cartilage of the aperture and the ala of the nose ; and its wall is