200 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section IY. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. Situation of the cerebrum. Form. Two haul- spheres, united by median parts. Under surface of cerebrum. Enumera- tion of central parts. Olfactory lobe. The cerebrum, or -great brain, the largest of the subdivisions of the encephalon, fills the upper part of the cranial cavity, and occupies the anterior and middle fossae of the base of the skull. Its hinder part rests on the tentorium, which separates it from the cerebellum. Its lower limit would be indicated on the surface of the head by a line from the eyebrow to the articulation of the jaw, and from this point to the external occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranial cavity, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and separated in the greater part of their extent by a median longitudinal fissure. In their lower hall'the hemispheres are united by some commissures, as well as by several connecting parts at the under surface. The under part of each hemisphere is divided into two by a deep transverse cleft—the fissure of Sylvius. Under Surface or Base of the Cerebrum (fig. 59). The under surface of the cerebrum is- irregular, in consequence of its fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the upper, for the median fissure exists only at the front and back. The following objects are to be recognised at the centre of the base of the brain :— Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, the peduncles of the cerebrum or crura cerebri (/), one belonging to each hemisphere ; and between them is a small area perforated by vessels, which is named the posterior perforated space (</). Crossing the peduncle is the optic tract; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In front of the posterior perforated space are seen two rounded white bodies—the corpora albicantia (e) ; and then a prominent greyish mass, called tuber cinereum (h). From the tuber einereuni a conical process, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converging optic tracts with their commissure (i). In front of the commissure lies a thin greyish layer—lamina cinerea (m) ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (n) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the Sylvian fissure is a depression termed the vallecula Sylvii (I), at the bottom of which is seen another spot perforated by vessels—the anterior perforated space. Lastly, in front of the anterior perforated space, and resting on