EIGHT AURICLE OF HEART. 343 Fig. 10 4.* and smallest veins. Situation of cava?, Vieussenii, which is most prominent above and on the left side, and ^jSeSi* gradually subsides below. Altogether at the lower end of tbe posterior wall is the aperture Apertures of of the coronary sinus (c). Other small apertures, named foramina smus of Tliebesius, are scattered over this surface ; some lead only into depressions ; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (smallest cardiac veins ; p. 341). The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cava?, coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava («) is at the top of the auricle, and looks slightly forwards. The inferior cava (b) enters the lowest part of the cavity at the back, close to the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis (rf). The au- riculo-ventricular open- ing (c) is the largest of all, and is situate at the lower and fore part of the cavity. Between this and the septum sinus (e). All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of Valves of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining tures.ap6r" membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, which is only a Inferior remnant of a much larger structure in the foetus. This fold is cava has semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior y"i*^?lian wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. The valve is wider than the vein opening; and its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards : it is often cribriform. The aperture of the coronary sinus is covered by a thin fold of the one to coro- lining membrane—the valve of Tliebesius. The auricvdo-ventricular uaiy S1UUS' opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to is placed the opening of the coronary of coronary sinus. ke and to auriculo- provided with a valve, which prevents the blood flowing back into ventricular the auricle. °Peni,,°- In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle Course of towards the ventricle. But in the foetus there are two streams in aurkiie'jn adult, * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava. b. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii. g. Pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix.