642 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Inferior gemellus: both in- serted with obturator; use to help obturator. Obturator internus outside pelvis: insertion ; relations; tendon is divided on the edge of the pelvis; use like pyriformis. Quadratus femoris: origin; insertion; parts over and be- neath it, and at lower border: the ischial spine, and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Sometimes the muscle is absent. The inferior gemellus (fig. 195, e) is larger than its fellow. Its origin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, along the lower edge of the groove for the obturator internus muscle; and its insertion is in common with the obturator tendon. This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quadratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Action. These small fleshy slips are but accessory pieces of origin to the internal obturator, with which they combine in use. The obturator internus (fig. 195, d) arises from the hip-bone inside the pelvis (p. 588), and passes to the exterior through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the hip-joint, and is inserted with the gemelli, in front of the pyriformis, into the inner side of the great trochanter, at the upper and fore part. Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is em- braced by the gemelli muscles in the following way ; near the pelvis the gemelli meet beneath, but near the trochanter they cover the tendon. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the sciatic vessels; and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon and raising the inner end, it will be found divided into four or five pieces as it turns over the margin of the pelvis (fig. 197, h) ; at this spot the bone is covered with cartilage, which forms ridges corresponding to the intervals between the tendinous slips, and the surfaces are lubri- cated by a synovial sac. There is sometimes another bursa between the tendon and the back of the hip-joint. Action. The action of this muscle is in all respects the same as that of the pyriformis (p. 638). The quadratus femoris (fig. 195, g) is situate between the inferior gemellus and the adductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border of the ischial tuberosity for two inches, by the side of the semimembranosus and adductor magnus ; externally it is inserted into a tubercle on the posterior intertrochanteric ridge of the femur (tubercle of the quadratus), and along a line on the upper end of that bone for about two inches, above the attachment of the great adductor. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, and the gluteus maximus. By the other it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex vessels, and its small nerve and vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus the transverse branch of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Action. The quadratus differs from the foregoing muscles of the same group in being able to rotate out the femur when the hip-joint is bent, as well as in the extended position; and it will assist slightly in adducting the limb.