DISSECTION OE DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 108 Ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves. Glossopha- ryngeal nerve has two ganglia in foramen. Its upper and lower In the neck courses to the tongue. Branches to join with others, viz., sympathetic and vagus, facial and sympa- thetic. Distributed to pharynx, (p. 113) ; but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should he cleaned, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves (glossopharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory) leave the cranium together by the jugular foramen (p. 19), from which circumstance they were formerly grouped together as one nerve—the eighth nerve of Willis. Outside the skull the nerves take different directions to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined forwards to the tongue and pharynx ; the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles ; and the pneumo-gastric nerve descends to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (fig. 27,:) is the smallest of the three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front of the other two, and hies in a groove in the hinder border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being the j ugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. The jugular ganglion (4) is very small, and is situate at the upper end of the osseous groove containing the nerve. It includes only the outer fibres of the nerve, and is not always to be recognised. The petrous ganglion (5) is much larger, and encloses all the fibrds of the nerve. Ovalish in form, it is placed in a hollow in the posterior border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it comes forwards between the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 26,]), and descends over the artery until it reaches the hinder border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Then curving forwards, it becomes almost transverse in direction, crosses the stylo-pharyngeus, and finally passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, where it ends in branches to the tongue. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. The connecting branches arise from the petrous ganglion; and in this set is the tympanic nerve. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to join the petrous ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, and another to the upper ganglion of this nerve. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson—fig. 27,°) enters the aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid foramina, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum : its distribution is given with the anatomy of the middle ear (Chapter XI). Branches for distribution. In the neck the branches are fur- nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. a. Pharyngeal branches. Two or three branches, arising from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve as it lies over the carotid artery, descend