DISSECTION OP THE HAND. 300 Divide annular liga- ment. and open sheaths. Synovial sac surrounds tendons. Superficial flexor tendons in the hand insertion ; slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor cross the hand to their insertion. Short folds to both flexor ten- dons. Lumhrical muscles : origin ; insertion ; relations; and use. Tendon of A longitudinal incision is to be made through, the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to he thrown to tin; sides. Finally, the sheaths of the fingers may he opened in order to show the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial Hexors are surrounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, ami sends an offset into the digital sheath of the thumb, and sometimes one into that of the little finger. Flexor sublimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all lour are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the digital sheaths (fig. 86, c) ; and each is inserted by two processes into the margins of tin; middle phalanx, about the centre. As it enters the sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the latter tendon. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the synovial membrane and areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are directed through the hand to the fingers ; and in their course they give origin to the small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath Avith a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are short folds of the synovial membrane, one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected with the capsule of the joint, and the loAver part of the phalanx immediately above the bone into which it is inserted. The lumbricales (fig. 88, i) are four small muscular slips, which arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular ligament; the outer two sprmging each from a single tendon, while the inner two are connected each with two tendons. They are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into the expanded extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 86, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending the metacarpo- phalangeal joints ; and by their insertion into the extensor tendons they straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor lowjus pollicis. Beneath the annular ligament