325 CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. Lone is Lrought in front of the palm; and as the movement proceeds, the thumb is gradually turned towards the fingers, passing mto the state of opposition. In this way the thumb may be made to touch opposi- te palmar surface of any or all of the fingers, the phalanges of the latter being somewhat bent at the same time. Extension of the extending; joint is very free, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer Lorder of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the thumb placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands from Joints of i .1 a it. fingers the carpal hones on both aspects, thus :— The d&rsal ligaments (fig. 99) are two to each, except to the bone have dorsal of the little finger. The IS and lateral motion. Fig. 99. and palmar bands; hands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the trapezium and tra- pezoid ; those of the third metacarpal are attached to the trapezoid and os mag- num ; the bone of the ring finger receives its Lands from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the fifth metacarpal Lone there is but one ligament from the vuici- form. The palmar ligaments (fig. 96), usually one to each metacarpal bone, are weaker and less constant than the dorsal. These liga- ments may be oblique in direction ; and sometimes a band is divided between two, as in the case of a ligament passing from the trapezium to the second and third metacarpals. One or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is lateral band, a longitudinal lateral band, which is attached above to the os mag- num and unciform, and below to a rough part on the inner side of the Lase of the ahove mentioned Lone. Sometimes this Land isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform Lone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; Lut more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This Land may Le seen Ly opening from Lehind the articulation Letween the unciform and the last two metacarpal hones ; and Ly cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciahle antero-posterior movement Very little exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of 111 * Posterior ligaments of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacarpal capsule of the thumb. 3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones.