100 DISSECTION OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Superior maxillary nerve. Dissection in spheno- maxillary fossa; in floor of orbit. Infraorbital vessels. Upper max- illary nerve passes to face through infraorbital canal. Its branches are—to orbit; to the nose and palate ; "to the hinder teeth and cheek ; to fore teeth; nasal, third and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic artery at the hack of the orhit, and clean the inferior oblique muscle in front as it arches round the eyeball. To see fully the remaining muscles, the course of the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, and the lower division of the third nerve, it will be necessary to divide the frontal nerve, the levator palpebral and superior rectus muscles, and the optic nerve. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, is placed successively in the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infraorbital canal. The beginning of the nerve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 18). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the nerve can be partly seen by the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposure here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away more of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks the following offsets,—the orbital branch entering the cavity of the orbit, branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend in the fossa, and the posterior dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the con- tents of the cavity having been taken away, the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to its termination on the face. From the infraorbital canal the anterior and middle dental brandies are to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infra- orbital vessels are prepared with the nerve. The superior maxillary nerve (fig. 25) commences at the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the cranium by the foramen rotundum. The course of the nerve is almost straight to the face, across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla through the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infraorbital foramen, where it is concealed hy the elevator of the upper hp, it ends in infraorhital or facial branches which radiate to the eyelid, nose, and upper hp. Branches.—a. The orbited or temporo-malar branch (4) has already been described (p. 49). Its two divisions have been destroyed on the right side in opening the orbit. b. The sphenopalatine branches (3) descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section XIV). c. The posterior dental branch (5) leaves the nerve near the upper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; near the teeth it joins the middle dental branch. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gum and the mucous mem- brane of the cheek. d and e. The middle and anterior dental branches arise together or separately from the trunk in the floor of the orbit, and descend in special canals in the wall of the antrum to end in branches to