358 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Pulmonary branches ; small anterior: large pos- terior form a plexus. (Esophageal branches form a plexus. Sympathetic in thorax consists of agangliated cord, and a cen- tral cardiac plexus. Dissection of the, plexus : to expose the right part, and the left. offset of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 341). c. Pulmonary brandies. There are two sets of nerves for the lung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of the root. The anterior branches, two or three in number, are small, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side. The posterior branches are larger and much more numerous. Forming a plexiform arrangement (posterior pulmonanj plexus) be- hind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are con- veyed into the lung on the divisions of the airtube. d. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest abimdance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with a network (plexus gulce). Sympathetic nerve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the spinal nerves ; and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed (p. 368). The cardiac plexus lies over the lower end of the trachea, and above the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. A part of this net- work, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 341). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire. Dissection. The arch of the aorta is to be cut across near the ' heart, and is to be drawn over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the azygos vein, and its lower part is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the left side enter, the arch of the aorta is to be cut through a second time, between the subclavian artery and the attachment of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus ; and the transverse part of the arch is to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the left coronary plexus of the heart will be visible.