DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 ligament extend, which will he defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 219). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only tin- bands of one articulation at a time. Astragalus ARTICULATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS AND OS OALCIS. These bones caicis°by f01'm tW0 Joints' and aru k,'ljt together by a strong interosseous liga- ment ; there are also thin bands at the outer side and behind. posterior, The posterior ligament (fig. 219, a) consists of a few fibres between the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor Fig. 219.* external, and interos- seous liga- ments. Articular surfaces ; synovial cavities. Movement between as- tragalus and os calcis : axis of motion. hallucis ; and the external ligament (b) is connected to the sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 219, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 707) the articular surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two sxjnovial cavities. Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Sup- posing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, b, external, and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- navicular. e. External calcaneonavicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal navieulo-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.