DISSECTION OF THE ARM. branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small: it is continued to the shoulder along the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most pail along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end as the others in the axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found a little above the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves. The superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral) all are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-spiral and musculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves, large and small (from the plexus), a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto- humeral nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCHES OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the limb about the middle. The upper small one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments to the back of the arm, is continued to the forearm. The musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median-cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. The internal cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia in two pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two. Its anterior branch passes beneath the mecban-basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the posterior winds over the inner condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm. A slender offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far, as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the biceps muscle. The nerve of Wrisberg (small internal cutaneous) appears behind the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior siufaces, and joins above the elbow the posterior branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-humeral nerve, a branch of the second inter- costal (p. 244), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies on