DISSECTION OF THE NECK. so tonsil, submaxil- lary gland, and mylo- hyoid muscle. Facial vein. Occipital artery- ends on occiput; a sterno- mastoid branch; sometimes a posterior meningeal. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes between the internal pterygoid and styloglossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it. d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and courses forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle to the anterior belly of the digastric, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforating the mylo-hyoid and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 27) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery; and it frequently sends a considerable branch downwards to join the anterior jugular vein (p. 63). The occipital artery springs from the carotid opposite the facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner side of the mastoid process. Here it turns backwards in the occipital grove of the temporal bone, passing above the trans- verse process of the atlas, and then runs between the muscles attached to the occipital bone, to become cutaneous and ramify over the back of the head (p. 6). In the part of its course now exposed the artery lies beneath the digastric muscle and the parotid gland, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The occipital artery gives small branches to the surrounding muscles, and one larger branch to the sterno-mastoid, which bends downwards over the hypoglossal and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve: this branch frequently arises directly from the external carotid. In some bodies there is also a small meningeal branch entering the skull by the jugular foramen. The offsets at the back of the neck are seen in the dissection of that Occipital veins. Posterior auricular; a branch to tympanum. Posterior auricular vein.j Temporal artery; The occipital veins are two or three in number, and pass down- wards between the muscles of the back of the neck to enter the deep cervical vein. They communicate through the mastoid foramen with the lateral sinus in the interior of the skull. The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the preceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides into two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same name, and suppbes the middle ear. The posterior auricular vein is of considerable size, and descends over the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the beginning of the external jugular. The superficial temporal artery (i) is one of. the terminal branches of the external carotid, and in direction forms the con- tinuation of that trunk. Ascending in the parotid gland and over