322 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. extension; abduction; adduction; circumduc- tion. Lower ends of radius and ulna joined by capsule, triangular flbro-carti- lnge: attach- ments, and rela- tions. Synovial membrane. Bones are joined into two rows. behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand is carried backwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz., from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so free as the forward. Abduction and adduction. The hand is carried transversely out- wards in the former, and inwards in the latter movement; and the extent of movement is greater towards the ulnar than the radial side. The lateral bgaments are put on the stretch, the inner in abduction and the outer in adduction ; and the motion is limited on the outer side by the meeting of the styloid process of the radius with the scaphoid bone. Circumduction. The hand describes a cone in this movement, the apex being at the wrist and the base at the digits ; and it moves more freely in extension and adduction than in the opposite directions. Lower radioulnar articulation. In this articulation the head of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; —an arrangement just the opposite to that between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro- cartilage; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 97, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projec- tion. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior liga- ments of the wrist-joint; and its sur- faces enter into different joints, viz., the wrist, and the lower radio-ulnar. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the idna : it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The motion in this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 320). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the corpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands; and the two rows are connected together by wide separate ligaments. * Lower ends of the forearm bones with the uniting fibro-cartilage. a. Radius, b. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.