DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 696 Anterior is oblique; its attach- ments. Posterior is vertical; its attach- ments. Their use. Both unite the bones. Rotation in checked by anterior. Special use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. One is much anterior to the other at the attachment of the tibia. The anterior ligament (/) is very oblique in its direction, and is longer than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner point of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted into an impression on the hinder part of Fig. 215.* the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament (e), the thicker of the two, is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the hindmost impression of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone ; and above, it is inserted into a mark occupying the lower part of the outer surface of the internal condyle, and extending forwards to the centre of the intercondylar fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint may now be studied after the external ligaments have been cut through. As long as both ligaments are whole the bones cannot be separated from each other. Rotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Rota- tion out is not checked by either ligament; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will permit the tibia to be tlimed hind part foremost. Supposing the tibia to move as in straightening the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor muscle, or by external force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put in front of the femur. Its use is shown by cutting it across, and leav- ing the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half-bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial arrests the too great movement backwards of the tibia by the flexors or by force ; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back from the femur. This use will be exemplified by cutting across the posterior (in * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and b, external semilunar libro-cartilage ; the latter rather displace I by the bending of the joint, e. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.