253 AXILLARY ARTERY. its termination it' is covered only by the integuments and the with fascia. Beneath it are subscapulars muscle (f) and the tendons musoles> of the latissimus and teres (g and h). To the outer side is the eoraeo-brachialis muscle (j). The axillary vein remains as above on the thoracic side of the with vein, artery. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves and nerves, into which the brachial-plexus has been resolved:—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nerve of "Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the Avail of Branches to the thorax and, the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in11 eth?rax number ; two (superior and acromio-thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor ; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle ; and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; they and the arise close together, at the border of the subscapularis muscle. The last offsets are the external, mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest offset, and Upper, arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side oftlloracic- the chest, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. The acromio-thoracic branch (fig. 73, a) is a short trunk on the Acromio- front of the artery, which apvjears at the upper border of the pecto- *10racic: ralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its principal offsets are directed inwards and outwards:— a. The inner or thoracic set supply the pectoral muscles, and give offsets are a few offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the in - ma1, intercostal and other thoracic arteries. 6. The outer or acromial set enter the deltoid, and some twigs external, perforate that muscle to anastomose over the acromion with a branch Of the suprascapular artery (p. 388). c. A small clavicular branch ascends to the subclavius muscle. ascending, d. The humeral branch runs downwards with the cephalic vein and de- between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to Avhich it is distributed. scendiu8- The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, its place Aiartho- being frequently taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic racic' arteries : it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axilla. The long thoracic branch (fig. 73, 6) is directed along the border of Longtho- the pectoralis minor to about the fifth intercostal space; it supplies ra°l°' the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is frequently met with, especially in External the female; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a mamniaTy- companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding. I