DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 386 of fascia reflected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition lumborum, 0f fascia lumborum. between the last rib and the hip-bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles, the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. to show Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, intt^—yerS passing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to the spinal posterior, column. The superficial layer is already exposed, being formed mainly by the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. To see the middle. middle layer, which passes beneath the erector spina) to the trans- verse processes, the first layer is to be divided, with the attached portion of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried out- wards from the third lumbar spine. On raising the outer border of the erector spina? muscle, which comes into <yiew, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent, and anterior. After cutting in the same way through this prolongation, another muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. Lumbar The FASCIA LUMBORUM 01' LUMBAR APONEUROSIS Occupies the fascia, interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards derived from to the spine. It is formed mainly by the posterior tendon of the tend™"8 transversalis muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 140, c), but its superficial part receives important accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will be found to divide at the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum into two layers, which encase that muscle ; and the posterior of these again sprits, or gives off a superficial process, at the outer margin of the erector spina?. There are thus consists of in the lumbar aponeurosis three layers of membrane, forming with three layers: t^e vertebra3 two sheaths, the one of which encloses the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinas muscles. anterior The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae near their tips. and middle The middle layer is the direct continuation of the transversalis tendon, and lies between the quadratus lumborum and the erector to transverse spinas muscles ; it is fixed to the extremities of the transverse processes. posterior to . The posterior or superficial layer is the thickest, and is attached pProoessSes, internally to the spines of the lumbar vertebra?. In this layer are united the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the transversalis. * Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 119). This stratum contains