707 TRANSVERSE TARSAL ARTICULATION. The deep piece, short plantar ligament (fig. 221, &), seen on deep band. division of the superficial (a), extends from the tubercle and the hollow on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the cuboid bone internal or posterior to the ridge. The synovial cavity of the articulation is simple. Synovial Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer '" rfaeeg Qf part of the articulation; but at the inner side the os calcis bones. is hollowed transversely, and the cuboid bone is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone may move in two direc- Movement: tions, viz., oblicpiely down and in with inversion of the foot, and up and out with eversion. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper state of ligament are made tight; and in the upward, the calcaneocuboid hsanie»ts- ligaments of the sole are stretched. Transverse tarsal articulation. This name is given to the Transverse line of articulation crossing the foot between the astragalus and os Nation** calcis behind and the navicular and cuboid bones in front: it will be noticed, however, that it is not a continuous joint, but is com- includes posed of two separate articulations, viz., the astragalo-navicular and two joints; the calcaneocuboid. These joints participate, as has been already seen, in the move- movements; ments of inversion and eversion, the anterior bones moving over the hinder ones, downwards and inwards in inversion, and upwards araputation and outwards in eversion. It is at this line that the foot is practised divided in the operation known as Chopart's amputation. here- Dissection. Saw through the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone for the purpose of observing the lower and outer calcaneo-navicidar ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 704). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two Surfaces of articular surfaces, anterior' and posterior, to both the astragalus and os calcis the os calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex from before back, and the anterior is concave; but sometimes the latter is subdivided into two. The surface of the astragalus will have a andastra- form exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz., the hinder one galus' concave and the anterior convex; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneocuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces ; and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given. Articulations of the navicular bone. The navicidar bone Union of the articulates in front with the three cuneiform bones, and laterally 'bam'™lar with the cuboid. In the articulation with the cuneiform bones (fig. 219) there are to the cunci- three longitudinal dorsal ligaments (i, k, I), one to each bone ; butfom; z z 2