DISSECTION OF THE HEAD 1G ascending pharyngeal. Posterior meningeal. Nerves of dnra mater. Crania] nerves in the base of the skull: •only partly seen. Olfactory nerves end in the nose. Second nerve passes to the eye. Dissection of third and fourth nerves; of fifth nerve. Third'nerve. artery comes througli the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). This is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The posterior meningeal arteries are small twigs of the ascend- ing pharyngeal which enter the skull by the anterior condylar and jugular foramina, and supply the dura mater in the neighbourhood, and a branch of the vertebral artery which is distributed over the lower part of the occipital bone. The branch coming through the jugular foramen is sometimes derived from the occipital artery. Meningeal Nerves. Offsets to the dura mater are said to be derived from the fourth, fifth, ninth and tenth cranial nerves; and from the sympathetic nerve. Cranial Nerves (fig. 4). As the cranial nerves pass through their apertures in the base of the skull they are invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed : —those of the dura mater and pia mater are continued into the sheath of the nerve ; while that of the arachnoid, except in the case of the second nerve, terminates as the nerve enters the dura mater. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, receive sheaths of the dura mater before they reach the foramina of transmission. The nerves are arranged in twelve pairs, which are enumerated from before backwards in the order in which they perforate the dura mater. Only pirrt of the intracranial course of each nerve will be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The first or olfactory nerves are about twenty small filaments which arise from the olfactory bulb of the brain (fig. 33) as it lies in the groove at the side of the crista galli, and descend to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second or optic nerve (fig. 4, 2), diverging to the eyeball from its commissure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen : accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will be necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orbit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 4, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the fore part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. "From the front of the ganglion arise two other large trunks besides the ophthalmic, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better view will be obtained. The third or oculomotor nerve (fig. 4, 3) is destined for the muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus uear the anterior clinoid process, and is placed at first above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the