DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 652 be observed. It rests on tbe semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact with the biceps as far as the lower third of the thigh. As the tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, on a level with the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the internal lateral ligament by a bursa, use on Action. If the leg is movable, the muscle bends the knee and and hip rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the joints, hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by this and the other hamstrings, on the Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. Semimem- The semimembranosus muscle (fig. 199, f) is tendinous at both readies from ends, and receives its name from the membraniform appearance of tibia*- *° ^e uPPer tendon. The muscle arises from the upper and outer impression on the ischial tuberosity ; and it is inserted below into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tibia, parts The muscle is thick and fleshy below, where it bounds the around it, p0p]jteai space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged, to- gether with the long head of the biceps, in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the outer border lie the great sciatic and internal popliteal nerves. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the knee-joint (p. 693). use on knee Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia ; and with the knee and hip- straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the joints, femur has been carried forwards. on pelvis. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts on the pelvis like the other hamstring muscles. Great sciatic The great sciatic nerve (fig. 199,2) lies on the adductor mag- the tWgh nus muscle helow the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurca- tion may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps, supplies Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the muscles. flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small Small sciatic nerve (fig. 199,l). Between the gluteus maximus th^thigh ■ anc*- tne kam tnis small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance, cutaneous Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; and the largest of offsets. tjiege arjscs near popliteal space. Detach the Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, hamstrings. an(l ^ i)ranches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip-bone and thrown