LARGE INTESTINE. 501 sacculated with bands, Inflate pieces of the large intestine. In length this portion of the alimentary canal measures about length; five or six feet,—one-fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the caacuin, size, and gradually decreases as far as the upper part of the rectum: in the lower part of the rectum there is a dilatation above the anus. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished Compared by the following characters :—It is generally of greater capacity, ,sma11 . n . ... ^' gut, larger, bemg in some places as large again, and is more fixed m its position; it is also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where more fixed, it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal not coiled, muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but in the rectum the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands disappear. Attached to the surface, especially along the transverse colon, are small processes of peritoneum containing fat—the appen- dices epiplo'icse. Dissection. For the purpose of examin- ing the large intestine, the student should cut off and blow up the csecum, with part of the ileum entering it; and he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. . The C/ECUM, or the head of the colon f.'&tfbi.Vv^ .'. JWr (fig. 156, a), is the rounded end of the large intestine which projects, in the c'-' form of a pouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and rather more in width, though gra- dually narrowing below: it is the widest its inner side it is joined by the small lower there is a small worm-like projection (c) appendix. appendix Appendix vermiformis (fig. 156, c). This little convoluted tube is Vermiform attached to the lower and hinder part of the caacum, of which it apPendbc: was a continuation at one period in the embryo. From three to six me^t'-'" inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, di '„,„,,„ and is connected to the inner side of the ctecum by a fold of peri- part of the colon, intestine (&); and -the At still efinition of ciecum: length and width : receives vermiform ileum and Interior of a coecum, dried and laid open. a. Ciecum. b. Small intestine c Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-colic piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-ctccal piece of the valve a Ketinaculum of the valve on each side. '