DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 560 Uterine artery: offsets to vagina; joins ovarian. Internal iliac vein: position to its artery; ending; its branches that are peculiar arc pudic, dorsal vein of penis, hemor- rhoidal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. Other arteries in the pelvis. Ovarian artery : offsets. deficient branches are derived from an accessory artery, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly from the trunk of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular ligament. It furnishes brandies to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. The uterine artery (fig. 171, d) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the. uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. - At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied to the vagina and the bladder ; and opposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery of the aorta. The internal iliac vein receives the blood from the wall of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corresponding for the most part with those of the artery. The vein is a short thick trunk, which is situate at the posterior and inner aspect of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the in- ternal iliac vein have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the following branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic veins receive roots corresponding the pudic artery in the perineum (p. 430), sponding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 440) receives veins from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and entering the pelvis below the symphysis pubis, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which join a large plexus round the prostate (prostatic plexus). The middle hcemorrhoidal vein communicates with a large plexus (hemorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. 579). The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the fundus of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hemorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube with a large vascular plexus (p. 582). The arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the inter- nal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hsemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery (p. 528), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be dis- tributed to the ovary: it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round Ligament; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. with the branches of but not those corre-