411 of the Extent varies below, 127.1 and in the embryo. Length. Inferior termination in the adult. Two swellings on it. EXTEENAL CHARACTERS OF CORD. The extent of the spinal cord is from the lower margin foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches the whole length of the spinal canal; but it .n-adually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the posi- tion ft has in the adult. Its length is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and below, it ends in a small taper- ing part (conus medullaris), from which the filuni termhiale (fig. 127, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus medullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the spinal cord is much increased wbere the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are, therefore, two enlargements on it, viz., cervical and lumbar ; the one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal -vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebra. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back nearly equals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by the central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student will require a piece of a fresh cord which has been hardened in spirit; for the cord which is obtained from the spinal canal at this period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, with the roots of the nerves left on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the cord. Sulci of the cord (fig. 128). The anterior median fissure occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in the cord are anterior * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to show the lower end of the median, cord with the fihim terminale. a. Dura mater, and b, the fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx, c. Pointed lower end of the cord (conus medullaris). d. Filum terminale of the cord. -a Anterior surface, how known. Dissection to see con- stituents of cord. Furrows of