235 NUCLEI OF CRANIAL NERVES. medulla calamus cavity. The fourth ventricle communicates above with the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the subarachnoid space through an ajjerture in the pia mater between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Below, it opens into the central canal of the cord. It is lined by ependyma, the epithelium of which is continued over the pia mater in the roof, and prolonged upwards and down- wards into the canals leading from the ventricle. Projecting into the lower half of the ventricle is a vascular fold on each side—choroid plexus, similar to the body of the same name in the lateral and third ventricles. It is attached to the inner sur- face of the pia mater which closes the ventricle between the and the cerebellum, and extends from the point of the scriptorius to the extremity of the lateral recess of the It receives branches from the inferior cerebellar artery. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by a layer of grey matter, which is continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and above with the grey substance of the aqueduct. Nuclei of cranial nerves (fig. 71). In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata and pons are situate the collections of nerve-cells from which many of the cranial nerves take their origin. Some of these ap- pear in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, while others are placed a little below the surface. Beneath the calamus scriptorius, and in the portion of the floor of the cavity formed by the medulla oblongata, are the nuclei of the twelfth, tenth, ninth and eighth nerves. The hypoglossal nucleus (XII) extends through nearly the whole length of the medulla ob1 longata; its lower part is hidden, lying m front of the central canal below the level of the fourth ventricle, '■ but its upper half approaches the surface in the lower portion of the fasciculus teres. The nucleus of the vagus (X) corresponds to the ala cinerea, and is continued above into the glosso- pharyngeal nucleus (IX) which lies be- neath the inferior fovea. The position of the inner or principal auditory nucleus (VIIK) is indicated by the auditory tubercle. Openings into other cavities. Choroid plexus of cavity. Grey layer of floor. Nerve- nuclei in and near floor of fourth ventricle. In lower half of floor, four nuclei, viz., of twelfth. vm. tenth, ninth, and eighth nerves. * Diagram showing the position of the nerve-nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Roman numbers indicate the nuclei of the corre- sponding nerves. Yd. Nucleus of the descending root, Ym. Motor nucleus, and Vs. Sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve. VIIIo. Outer, and Villi. Inner auditory nucleus. XL Upper part of the spinal accessory nucleus. On the left side : cq. Position of the corpora quadrigemina. at. Auditory tubercle. ac. Ala cinerea.