609 COTJKSE AND COVERINGS OF HERNIA. pectineus muscle. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament with the conjoined tendon ; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. The position of vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at page 464. Septum crurale. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which Crural _ is placed over the crural ring has been named crural septum from sep um' its position between the thigh and abdomen (Cloquet). The situa- position; tion of the septum is now visible, but its characters are ascertained how formed, in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 463). Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of Femoral intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut e""?' i ii. i i ,r • i Definition, descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side ol the vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its pro- Course; gress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and ^ica] along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface forwards, of the thigh, where it becomes elongated transversely ; and should and then the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector How it is the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- taok.PUSlied testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be necessary, if the protrusion is small, to direct it backwards and upwards ; but if the hernia is large, it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and after- wards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity, the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Coverings. As the intestine protrudes it is clothed by the follow- Coverings ing layers, which are elongated and pushed before it from within toneum"" outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, crural s'ep- which forms the hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale g^'t"ural across the crural ring. Afterwards comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side. Over this is spread a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, cribriform ■ there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with fasfia,> .fat -, . 1 > ° and skin, the skin. The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in different degrees The cover- according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the altered!7 prolongation from the crural sheath is wanting. Farther, in an1.old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is united usually with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. R R