PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. 421 Action. It compresses the lower part of the rectum during the act JJJjjjjj^ of defalcation. This muscle will he more fully seen in the dissection of the pelvis. Arteries (fig. 132). The pudic artery, with its inferior hamior- Arteries of rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it, are now visible. The pudic artery (a) is derived from the internal iliac in the Pudic pelvis (p. 559), and in its course to the genital organs distributes arter5r: offsets to the perineum ; one portion will be laid bare in the poste- course: rior, and the other in the anterior half of the perineum. As now seen, the vessel enters the hinder part of the ischio-rectal posterior fossa, and courses forwards along the outer wall at the depth of one foYsV" inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch in front. It is depth and contained in an aponeurotic sheath formed by the obturator fascia, relations. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accom- pany it, viz., the dorsal nerve of the penis which is above it, and the perineal branch of the pudic nerve which is nearer the surface. Its Branches .— offsets in this part of its course are the following :— The inferior hemorrhoidal branch (b) arises as the artery enters ]Inferiorlloi the ischio-rectal fossa, and is directed inwards across the space to the da], anus, dividing into branches which supply the skin and fat, the levator ani and sphincter muscles, and the lower end of the rectum. On the gut it anastomoses with the other hsemorrhoidal arteries. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to rim forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with the superficial perineal artery. Other offsets turn upwards round the edge of the gluteus maximus to the integument of the lower and inner part of the buttock. Small mnscidar branches cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, Muscular and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. offsets. Veins accompany the arteries, and have a like course and ramifi- Veins, cation : the pudic veins end in the internal iliac. Nerves (fig. 132). The nerves seen at this stage of the dissection Nerves of are the three divisions of the pudic trunk, a branch of the fourth C spaCe' sacral nerve, and the perforating cutaneous offset of the sacral plexus. The pudic nerve is derived from the sacral plexus, and lies over Pu<?ic nerve the small sacrc-sciatic ligament with the artery in the buttock three part.s° (p. 641). In the small sacro-sciatic foramen the nerve breaks up into the three following branches, which enter the perineum :— The inferior hemorrhoidal branch (') crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, inferior and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to d,*,norrhoi- the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve run forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The perineal branch is the largest of the three divisions, and runs perineal; forwards in a sheath of the obturator fascia, lying below the pudic vessels. At the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa it divides into cutaneous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous branches