631 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF BUTTOCK. Brunches of nerve to the obturator externus come from the deep of portion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OE THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and the following one (to p. 658) Directions, are to be completed by the student in the time appointed for the body to lie in the prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by the h°'}*- blocks, until the lower limbs hang vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can be better ascertained. Dissection. ThC'integument is to be raised from the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along tbe skin: iliac crest, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be. carried outwards and downwards across the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in seek euta- the fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 194). Thus, in front, oTthV crest* but rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinte are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three offsets of the ami by side sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. of sacrum: The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small other nerves sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the sciatic" lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteusbelow: maximus. Some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are directed down the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as cutaneous guides to their situation. arteries. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 194). The nerves distributed in the Sources of integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are ous£e^" derived from the last dorsal nerve, from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary divisions of the lumbar and sacral nerves. The last dorsal nerve (8) supplies the buttock by means of its from last lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This offset perforates the muscles a°ml •