no DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OP NECK. Branches to unite wit h others; auricular branch; with eleven']], sympa- thetic, ninth ; withtwelfth, sympa- thetic, and spinal nerves. Branches ot supply. To pharynx derived from the spinal accessory nerve (") pass over the ganglion without being connected to it. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve arising in the neck may be divided into those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. arise from the ganglia of the root through pharyngeal plexus. Upper branch to larynx, its external ollset. * Connecting branches (fig. 27) and trunk of the vagus. * From the ganglion of the root. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve,7) is the chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the small part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a branch from the upper ganglion of the sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an offset (10) to join the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve. From the ganglion of the trunk Communicating filaments pass between it and the hypoglossal nerve. Other branches connect it to the upper ganglion of the sympathetic and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for distribution. The cervical branches arise from the lower ganglion and the trunk of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to supply the pharynx, tlie larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal branch (fig. 27,ia) springs from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by the descending pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves communicate freely together, and with the pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus. The offsets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. According to Luschka, Henle, and others, a branch ascends from the plexus to the levator palati and azygos u'vuLb muscles. 6. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 27,14) is much larger than the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk. It runs obliquely downwards and forwards, passing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids (fig. 26,6), to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. Here it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and divides into branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the larynx (Section XVI). While beneath the internal carotid artery it furnishes the following offset :— The external laryngeal Irranch (fig. 26,"') descends on the inferior constrictor muscle to the side of the larynx, and then beneath the stemo-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of