216 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. Dissection. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix: position and form. Upper sur- face and borders. Posterior and anterior part. Under surface is marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will be exposed by cutting through the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lueidum. The fifth ventricle (vent, of the septum) is a narrow slit in the fore part of the septum lueidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly and above, the lamina? of the septum are united to a variable extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. This cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septum lueidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The fornix (fig. 63, c) is a thin white layer beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named crura, in front and behind. The upper surface of the body has the septum lueidum attached to it along the middle line in front; and behind, its median part is united to the corpus callosum. Each border is free in the corre- sponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, the velum interposition being between the two ; and along it lies the choroid plexus. At its base it joins the corpus callosuni in the middle, while on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the posterior cms or twnia hippocampi (fig. 64, c), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior end it is arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which Mall 1 ie afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 224). If the fornix be cut across near its front, the foramen of Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (fig. 64). When the posterior part is raised, it will be found to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interposition. And near its base, on the under aspect, is a triangular surface, marked by transverse lines, which are produced by the fibres of the corpus callosum appearing in the interval between the two diverging longitudinal bands of the fornix : the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 64, a). The fornix may be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view each band, commencing in the Foramen of Monro. optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arches over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as the taenia hippocampi to the hook of the uncinate convolution. The foramen of Monro is a short slit between the fore part of the fornix and the optic thalamus. Through it the lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle, and indirectly with the one