DISSECTION OF TJ1E BACK. 400 Semispinalia is divided into semispinalia dorsi and semispi- nalis colli. Dissection of multiti- dns spimt. Origin of mnltindus spina from pelvis, from lumbar, dorsal, and cervical vertebra. Insertion into spines. Dissection. Rotatorcs dorsi: attach- ments. Relations of transverso- spinales ; and use. the semispinalis ; a middle portion, with slips of intermediate- length—the multifidus spinas; and a deep set of very short fasciculi, present only in the thoracic region—the rotatores dorsi. * The semispinalis consists of slips which pass over four or five vertebra?, and is subdivided into the following two parts, but the separation between them is not always distinct. * The semispinalis dorsi is thinner than the upper part : it arises- from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra) from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of last two cervical and upper four dorsal vertebra;. The semispinalis colli (fig. 122, g) arises from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the- spines of the cervical vertebra? above the last, the atlas not receiving any slip. Dissection. The upper part of the mnltifidus spina? is to be prepared by the dissector of the head and neck. It will be exposed by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and turning aside that muscle. * Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis of the erector spina*- must be removed. In the dorsal region the multifidus spina? will appear on detaching and reflecting the semispinalis from the spines. The slips by which the muscle is attached to the processes of the? vertebras should be defined and separated. * The multifidus sriiwE reaches from the sacrum to the axis : iti is larger below than above, and is smallest in the upper dorsal region. It takes origin at the pelvis from the back of the sacrum between the spines and the external row of processes as low as the fourth aperture, from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, from the inner side of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the- overlying tendon of the erector spina?; in the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the mamillary processes of the vertebra? ; in the dorsal region by thinner slips from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebra. From these attachments the fibres are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, passing over from one to three vertebra, to be inserted into the spinous processes from the axis to the last lumbar vertebra. * Dissection. To see the rotatores dorsi the slips of the multifidus should be detached from the dorsal spines and turned downwards. * The rotatores dorsi are eleven short muscular slips in the- dorsal region beneath the multifidus spina?, from which they are- separated by fine areolar tissue. Each 'arises from the upper and back part of a transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. * The transverso-spinales are entirely concealed by the erector spina? and complexus muscles ; and beneath them are the lamina? of the vertebra?, with the dorsal spinal plexus of veins. Internally they rest against the spinous processes and the interspinal muscles. * Action. The transverso-spinales of the two sides acting together