425 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF ANTERIOR HALF. The internal branch (*) passes under the transverse muscle, and ™<l internal; accompanies the other to the scrotum. The superficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach and penU. ;is far as the under surface of the penis. Other muscular branches of the perineal nerve will be afterwards examined (p. 426). The inferior pudendal nerve (4) is a branch of the small sciatic. Injf^°cJa, It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial Uene tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- ends in tions take place between this nerve, the inferior haemorrhoidal, and the outer of the two superficial perineal branches. Dissection, For the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia, Msse^on as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken of the away from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a ^raald thin aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Next to the middle line lies the ejaculator urinae ; along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis ; and behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the right side the student should seek the branches of the and of their perineal nerve to the muscles. Muscles (fig. 133). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the Three anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz., the ™™Ctr?- erector penis, the ejaculator urinae, and the transversus perinei. angular Another muscle of the urethra is contained between the layers of ''Sament- the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perineum. Between the urethra and the rec- Central turn is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which poin ' this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra where are united. Its development varies greatly in different bodies. j^lif0163 The erector penis (ischio-cavernosus ; fig. 133, b) is the most Erector external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in I*1"8: the middle. It covers the crus penis ; and its fibres arise from the origin; ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. In front, the muscle is insertion; inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- use. jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from the corpus cavemosum by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the erection of the oixran. o The ejaculator urinae (bulbo-cavernosus ; fig. 133, a) lies on Ejaculator the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median ,lrin£E: tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perineum {origin). The fibres are directed outwards, curving origin at around the convexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, middle lin which has the following insertion .-—The hindmost fibres end on the