520 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. TuIk s noxt become straight (tubuli recti), afterwards join toge- ther (rete testis), and leave the gland as vasa efferentia. Excretory duct in two parts. Epididymis consisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed ; formed of a coiled tube Tubuli recti (fig. 164, c). The seminal tubes uniting together become narrower and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they pierce the fibrous mediastinum and enter the rete testis. Rete testis (fig. 164, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in tin anterior part, in front of the blood-vessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a network. Vasa efferentia (fig. 164,/). From twelve to twenty tubes leave the top of the rete, and issue Fig. 164.* from the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the canal of the epididymis (part of the common excretory duct). Though straight at first, they soon become con- voluted, and have been named coni vasculosi. In the natural state they are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled they mea- sure six inches; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The excretory duct receives the vasa efferentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis ; but the remainder is comparatively straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis (fig. 164, h) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end. and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (h). It is attached to the testis, most closely at the ends, by fibrous tissue and by the reflection of' the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the vasa efferentia. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. * Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis, to show the arrangement of the septa and seminal tubes, a. Lobes of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, c. Bete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major, h. Body, and i. Globus minor of the epididy- mis, k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. n. Eete testis, in section, o. Finer septa, p. Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut across.