DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 392 insertion. Acees- sorius : origin ; insertion. Cervicalis ascendens: origin ; insertion. Longissinms <lorsi: double Insertion; is continued to neck by trans- versalis colli, and to head by trachelo- innstoid. Spinalis dorsi: insertion. Relations of erector in lumbar and dorsal regions : and hi ncek. and superficial part of the common mass of the erector in the loins. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles:— * The accessorius(nmsculus accessorius ad ilio-costaleni; rig. 120, d) arises by a series of tendinous and ileshy slips from the angles of the lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio-costalis ; and it ends in tendons which are inserted into the remaining ribs in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vetebra. The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip prolonging the accessorius into the neck : it arises from four ribs, viz., the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vetebra). * The longissimus dorsi is the largest of the pieces resulting from the division of the erector spin®, and has two sets of insertions into the vertebrae and ribs. Internally it gives off a series of lleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebra;, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebra;: externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the Lumbal vertebra;, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum ; and by thin flattened processes to the ribs, except the first two or three, between the tuberosity and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces :— The transversalis colli (fig. 121, b) arises from the transverse processes of the upper dorsal vertebra; (from four to six), and is in- serted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra; except the first and last The trachelo-mastoid muscle (transversalis capitis; fig. 121, c) arises in common with the preceding, and receives additional slips from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebra;. It is inserted beneath the splenitis capitis into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, where it is about three- quarters of an inch wide. * The spinalis dorsi is very narrow, and springs from the tendinous slips of the erector which arise from the lower dorsal and upper two or three lumbar spines. Its fibres are inserted into a variable number (from four to nine) of the upper dorsal spines. * Relations of the erector spina. The erector spinas is concealed by the muscles of the layers already examined. It lies over the semi- spinalis and multifidus spina; muscles, portions of the ribs and external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in an aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum (p. 386) ; and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aponeurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebra;. The tendon of origin is united over the sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum ; and from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the