DISSECTION OF THE B11A1N. 208 middle, and inferior longi- tudinal. Orbital sulcus and gyri. < 11 factory sulcus. Parietal sulci are intraparietal and post- central. ( .involu- tions : ascending parietal, superior parietal lobule, and inferior jiarietal lobule, con- sisting of supra- inarginal The middle frontal convolution (mf) runs from tin: ascending frontal to the lower margin of the lobe, between the upper and lower frontal sulci. The inferior frontal convolution (if) is the smallest of all. Spring- ing from the lower end of the ascending frontal convolution, itarchea round the ascending and anterior branches of the Sylvian fissure, and ]uisses into the posterior orbital gyrus. Orbited lobule (tig. 61). The orbital lobule is subdivided by a Y or H-shaped orbital sulcus (orb) into three convolutions, named internal (io), anterior (ao), and posterior (po) orbital, which are the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. On the internal orbital convolution is a longitudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the reception of the olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolutions of the parietal lobe. In the parietal lobe there are two named sulci; and four convolutions are dis- tinguished. The intraparietal sulcus (ip) begins close to the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, about midway between the upturned extremity of this and the lower end of the furrow of Rolando. It first ascends, running nearly parallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, where it often becomes continuous with the superior occipital sulcus. The upper part of the intraparietal furrow is frequently interrupted by one or two cross gyri. The postcentral sulcus (ptc) continues the direction of the ascending stage of the intraparietal sulcus behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It generally opens into the intraparietal sulcus at the spot where the latter changes its direction. The ascending parietal convolution (ap) is placed opposite the as- cending frontal, and like that is simple, and extends from the upper margin of the hemisphere to the posterior branch of the Sylvian fis- sure. In front of it is the furrow of Rolando, round the ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is limited by the postcentral sulcus above, and the transverse part of the intra- parietal sulcus below. Parietal lobules. The larger portion of the parietal lobe behind the foregoing convolution is divided into two parietal lobules by the longitudinal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of the hemisphere, and behind to the upper occipital convo- lution by a small winding gyrus which is called the first annectant convolution (below po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior parietal lobule is again subdivided into two convolu- tions, but the separation between them is often very indistinct. The supramarginal convolution (sm) is the anterior and larger of these : it springs in front from the lower end of the ascending parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch