DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 76 is close to side of artery, except below. Branches. Differences in origin of artery, i in division. Dissection. Digastric muscle has two bellies, which are joined by a tendon. Position to other parts. The muscle bounds a space containing glands. Use. Stylo-hyoid muscle. the lower part of the neck there is a space between the two, in which the vagus nerve is seen crossing (on the right side only) the sub- clavian artery. Sometimes the vein overlaps the artery to a con- siderable extent. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a single or double valve. In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the riglit side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two (p. 62). As a veiy rare occurrence, 'instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the lryoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk of the external carotid (fig. 18), and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The digastric muscle (fig. 16, b) consists of two fleshy bellies, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior, the larger of the two, arises from the digastric fossa on the inner side of the mastoid process ; while the anterior belly is fixed to the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is sur- rounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoid, and is united by an aponeurotic expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the posterior end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it, the jaw, and the base of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained the parotid gland (10), and the vessels and nerves in connection with it (p. 29); in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland (u), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies acting will elevate the hyoid bone. The stylohyoid muscle is thin and slender, and lies imme- diately above the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from