301 MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. this tendon is external to the flexor profundus ; and in the hand it ^"^j^11" inclines outwards between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis (fig. 88), to be inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The its insertion. common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 88). The deep palmar arch with the deep branch Dissection of the ulnar nerve, and some of the interosseous muscles, will come I^ch' into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve the fine nerves and vessels entering the inner two lumbrical muscles. The short muscles of the thumb and little finger are next to be and of in . i • ,. p , , • muscles of prepared. Some care is necessary m making a satisfactory separation thumb ami of the different small thumb-muscles ; but those of the little finger little linger. are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 88). These are four inFourmus- number, and are named from their action on the thumb. The tJ^na"the most superficial is the abductor pollicis (a) ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis (b), which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the bifid short flexor (c) ; and the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb (d). The abductor pollicis (a) is the most superficial muscle, and Abductor: is about an inch wide. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament on the outer side, and from the tuberosity of the scaphoid attach- bone ; and it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the meuts' thumb at the radial margin. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : relations; it is joined at its origin by a slip from the tendon of the palmaris longus, and often by one from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. The abductor pollicis moves the thumb in the direction and use. of its radial border away from the index finger. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through Dissection, the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the head of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The opponens pollicis (b) arises from the annular ligament Opponens beneath the preceding, and from the outer side of the ridge of the metacarpal trapezium ; and it is inserted into the outer surface and radial border bone. of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is for the most part concealed by the preceding, beneath though it projects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the foril««>-; flexor brevis pollicis. Action. It draws the metacarpal bone inwards over the palm, use. rotating it at the same time, so as to turn the ball of the thumb towards the fingers, thus producing the movement of opposition. The flkxor brevis pollicis (c) is the largest of the short muscles Flexor of-the thumb, and consists of two parts or heads (inner and outer) BreviB: