EXTENSORS OF FINGERS. 309 the adjacent muscles. At the lower part of the forearm the muscle origin; ends in four tendons, which pass through a compartment of the division into annular ligament with the indicator muscle, and are directed along ^gUd0ng; the hack of the hand to their insertion into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. On the fingers the tendons have the following arrangement. On insertion the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an expansion with the phalanges, tendons of the hunbricalis and interosseous muscles (fig. 86). At the lower part of that phalanx the expansion divides into three parts (fig. 91, n) ;—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, while the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two artievdations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist and Relations of little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the the muscle- hand the tendons are joined by cross bands (l) which are strongest between the ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action. The muscle straightens the fingers and separates them Use, from each other. It acts especially on the first phalanges, the two g"„Jie fin" interphalangeal joints being extended mainly by the interosseous and livmbricales muscles. The digits being straightened, it will assist the other muscles in on elbow extending the wrist and the elbow. an wrist" The extensor Mixmi digiti (e) is the most slender muscle on Extensor of the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of thelittle finger' common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the origin; extensor communis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular ligament. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, termination; and the outer part is joined by the fourth tendon of the common extensor: finally, both parts enter the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves back the wrist and and use. elbow. As the inner piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor, it can straighten the digit during flexion of the other fingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS MUSCLE (p) arises from the common Extensor tendon, the aponeurosis of the forearm, and an intermuscular septum rfsT Ul"a" on its outer side ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its origin; tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that structure to be inserted into insertion; the tuberosity at the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, relations; with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little finger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action, The ulnar extensor straightens the wrist, and inclines the a„d use. hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow-joint.