DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 202 Composed of three parts. Dissection. Crusta. Substantia nigra. Tegmentum. Posterior perforated spot. Corpora albicantia. Tuber cinereum and in- fundibulum. which contains the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, and the tuher cinereirm with the infunciibulum. Structure. The peduncle consists of a superficial layer of white fibres, the crusta, continued from the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a prolongation of the reticular formation termed the tegmentum, and an intermediate stratum of grey matter—the substantia rvigra. Dissection. For the purpose of showing the structure of the eras on the right side (fig. 57), the optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far as the junction of the eras with the hemisphere. In this proceeding the substantia nigra (g) will appear; and beneath it will be seen the tegmentum. The crusta is composed of coarse bundles of white fibres, ascending from the pons (fig. 56, c) to the cerebral hemisphere, where they enter a layer of white fibres termed the internal capsule, which will be subsequently seen. The continuation of the pyramidal hbres of the medulla (pyramidal tract) occupies the central part only of the crusta ; and the lateral parts consist of fibres which have been added in the pons. Those on the inner side pass to the frontal lobe of the hemisphere, while the outer ones are destined for the occipital and fcemporo-sphenoidal lobes. The substantia nigra (fig. 57, g) is a layer of dark grey matter' which separates the crusta from the tegmentum. In transverse sections it is seen to be convex towards the crusta, and thicker at the inner than at the outer side. The tegmentum is united internally with the like structure of the opposite side below; but above, the two are separated by the grey matter of the posterior perforated space. It consists of a reticular formation continuous with that of the pons, together with a con- siderable bundle of fibres derived from the cerebellum (superior peduncle of the cerebellum), in connection with which there is a roundish mass of grey substance named the nucleus of the tegmentum or reel nucleus. Above, the tegmentum joins the under surface of the optic thalamus. The posterior perforated space (fig. 59, g) is situate in the depres- sion between the crura cerebri. The bottom of this hollow is formed by a layer of grey matter, -which is perforated by the central branches of the posterior cerebral arteries. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora albicantia (corp. mamillaria; e) are two round white bodies, about the size of small peas, which are constructed in greater part by the crura of the fornix. If one, say the right, is cut across, it will lie seen to contain grey matter. The tuber cinereum (h) is a portion of the thin grey layer forming the floor of the third ventricle, -which is continuous behind with the grey matter of the posterior perforated space, and in front, above the optic commissure, with the lamina cinerea. It is convex on the surface, and is prolonged at its fore part into the following body. The infwidibulum is a funnel-shaped tube which readies from the tuber cinereum to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It