189 ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. nerves, and is attached to the valve of Vieussens over the fourth ventricle (fig. 65,*)- The nerve appeal's between the cerebrum and cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, and is directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Beep origin. In the valve of Vieussens the nerve crosses to the opposite nucleus in side, decussating with its fellow, and then arches round the aqueduct of Sylvius to reach its nucleus in the floor of that canal, immediately below the aqueduct, nucleus of the third nerve. The fifth or trigeminal (5) is the largest of the cranial nerves, Fifth nerve and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or roote|i motor, which are separate to beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the both issuing upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is froin pons" the higher, and is separated from the large root by one or two of the transverse bundles of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and join in the peculiar manner stated on page 18. Beep origin. The large root divides within the pons into two parts. One Deep origin of these is connected with a mass of grey matter (sensory nucleus of the fifth) ^ 1to,?s ui?c?t near the floor of the fourth ventricle : the other (ascending root of the fifth) medulla arises from the cells of the posterior horn of the grey matter in the lower part oblongata ; of the medulla oblongata (I'echterew), and is directed upwards on the outer surface of the gelatinous substance of Rolando (p. 198) to join the upper part. The small root also has a double origin, one part springing from a special of small in nucleus (motor nucleus of the fifth) in the floor of the fourth ventricle internal JiJi^iji-ihi to the sensory nucleus, and the other (descending root of the fifth) from a collection of nerve-cells on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The sixth nerve (6), abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs from Sixth uewe the outer part of the pyramidal body close to the pons, and often pyramid by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Beep origin. The fibres of the nerve pass backwards, through the lower and nucleus part of the pons, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, beneath the ln '25*^ outer part of the fasciculus teres. ■ ventricle. The seventh or facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair, Seventh Willis,'7) appears at the lower border of the pons, to which it is lateral Tract closely adherent, in the depression between the upper ends of the oD£raSa- olivary and restiform bodies. A small accessory bundle (portio .joined by ' intermedia of Wrisberg) leaves the medulla oblongata between the po^n.- facial and the auditory nerves, and joins the former within the internal auditory meatus. Beep origin. The fibres of the facial nerve pass backwards to the floor of Deep origin the fourth ventricle, and there wind round the nucleus of the sixth nerve, to from !l join a group of nerve-cells lying on the outer side of the latter. Whether dorsaTrarf some of the fibres are connected with the cells of the nucleus of the sixth is of puns uncertain. The eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh Eiehth v nerve from