RELATIONS OF VISCERA IN FEMALE. 556 the upper or free border of the broad ligament. One end is con- nected to the uterus close to the fundus, while the other is folded round the ovary. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus fimbriatum: one of the fimbriae is attached to i he upper part of the ovary. The ovaet (l) is oval in form, but rather flattened, and very Ovary, variable in size. It forms a projection at the back of the broad ligament, and is invested by the peritoneum except along one (the attached) border. In the natural condition it lies nearly vertically against the side wall of the pelvis, and is embraced by the outer part of the Fallopian tube : the direction of its free border varies. Its lower end, which is directed somewhat forwards, is attached to ami its the uterus by a special fibrous band, about one inch and a half in ''S"""'"1- length, the ligament of the ovary. The vagina (fig. 171, i) is the tube by which the uterus conmm- Vagina: nicates with the exterior of the body. It is compressed from f^".tuni1 before back ; and its length is about three inches. As it follows ]en„tll. the bend of the rectum, it is slightly curved ; and its axis corre- axjs. sponda below with that of the outlet, but higher up with that of the <;avity of the pelvis. In front of the vagina are the base of the Madder, and the relations, urethra ; and behind it is the rectum, but the peritoneum inter- venes between the two for a short distance at the upper end. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube ; and the levator ani lies along the side external to this. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior wall'; and the lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vaginae muscle, A large plexus of veins surrounds the vagina within its sheath. In children, and in the virgin, the ex- ternal aperture is partly closed by the hymen (p. 432). The bladder (fig. 171, h) is placed at the fore part of the pelvis, Bladder _ in front of the vagina, and in contact with the back of the pubic bones. Its position and relations so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary a separate de- resembles scription of them (p. 548). The chief differences'in the bladder n?a*e°ftl,c of the two sexes are the following :— In the female the bladder is more globular than in the male, and differences the transverse often exceeds the vertical measurement. The base is ^c tw" of less extent, and is in contact with the vagina and the neck of the uterus. The vasa deferentia, vesiculoe seminales, and prostate are absent. The ureter has a longer course in the female than in the male Course of pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal "retei- iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus to its destination. The urethra (fig. 171, a) is about one inch and a half long, Urethra: and by its position corresponds to the prostatic and membranous len6a»: portions of the male passage, although it represents only the upper half of the prostatic urethra. It is situate in front of the vagina i'nsiti°» ">« *^ ' enliven •