DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 436 Abdominal rings, outer, and inner. liaise the skin from the front. Position of cutaneous nerves; Dii the side ; and in front, Seek vessels and nerves in right groin. Separate fascia in left groin into super- ficial and deep layer. Immediately above and to the outer side of the pubic spine the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the promi- nence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is farther to the outer side, though it cannot be recognized on the surface with the finger ; but its position may be ascertained by taking a point mid- way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and a finger's breadth above Poupart's ligament. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skin from the sides and front of the belly are the following ;—One cut is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform process to about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to begin at the symphysis pubis, and to be carried outwards along Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest till it ends opposite the first cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away ; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the side and front of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous nerves, five or six in number, which issue in a line with the corre- sponding nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat, and divide into two : one offset is to be traced forwards, and the other backwards, with small cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back on the crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognized with small arteries ; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. In the inguinal region the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. For this purpose, all the fascia superficial to the vessels is to be removed from the right groin. The vessels which will then appear are the superficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac artery exter- nally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's liga- ment. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought :—one, the ilio- inguinal, comes through the external abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum ; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the superficial fascia on the left side two strata are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means of a transverse cut directed inwards from the front of the ibac crest, and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubic bone. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a triangular flap of the fascia is to be thrown towards the thigh. To define the thinner deep stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and detach it carefully with the