158 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold with the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres passing from the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottis are sometimes described together as the depressor of the epiglottis. Use. Action, This muscle draws downwards the epiglottis and aryteno- epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing the upper aperture of the larynx. Interior of CAVITY OF THE LARYNX AND PARTS INSIDE. On looking into the Thecavitvis cavity °^ tne l^y11* horn above, the tube will be seen to become constricted narrower from above downwards, owing to the projection inwards of m middle. prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are placed on a level with the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the slit-like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the lower aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Upper open- Upper aperture of the larynx (fig. 30, n). This is the orifice by which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- form and angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, boundaries, turned forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloped from before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane ; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. Lower open- The lower aperture of the larynx, bounded by the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circular in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Dissection. Dissection. To see the parts within the larynx, the tube is to be divided by a median incision along the back ; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. Parts inside On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 42) there will now be seen the projecting bands of the vocal cords separated by a depression called the ventricle of the larynx. If a probe be passed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—sacculus laryngis, by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the superior vocal cord. Glottis, The glottis or rima glottidis is the narrowest part of the laryngeal cavity, and is placed on a level with the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed form, together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, boundaries, with the base turned backwards. It is bounded on the sides by the true vocal cords (fig. 42, b) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the arytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attachment to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being Subdivision. alone concerneci in the production of the voice, is distinguished as the vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is +ermed the respiratory glottis.