DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 382 in the neck ; in thorax and loins; sucral. Cutaneous nerves how derived. In the neck Second and third nerve. In the dor- sal region : upper nerves lower nerves. In the loins. Two mus- cles in first layer. Dissection. different parts of the back, and their number is also irregular: as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region, look near the middle liner from the 3rd to the 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the third nerve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nerve (great occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 5). Over the upper part of the thorax, they will be found near the spines of the vertebras, where they lie at first beneath the fat ; but at the lower part, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves are derived from the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and onter. Arteries accompany the greater number of the neives, bifurcate like them,, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner of the two branches into which the posterior trunks divide : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, and come from the second,, third, fourth, and fifth nerves. The branch of the second nerve is named great occipital, and ac- companies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then ascends to the lower ]Dart of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, communicating with the great occipital nerve (p. 8). * Dorsal nerves. These are furnished by both the inner and outer branches—the upper six or seven from the inner, and the lower five or six from the outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upper nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebras ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, extends outwards over the scapula. The lower nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; the number of the superficial offsets from these nerves often varies. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the outer branches of the first three trunks ; they perforate the latissi- mus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spinas, and cross- ing the iliac crest of the hip-bone, are distributed in the integuments- of the buttock. * First Layer op Muscles (fig. 119). Two muscles, the trape- zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer and the unimportant deep fascia are to be removed together from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper limb is to be carried back-