736 DISSECTION OF TIIE EAR. Stapes : base; head ; neck; and crura. The bones have two sets of liga- ments ; either to unite one to another by joints. or to fix them to the tympanic wall. Ligaments of malleus are superior, anterior, and external. One hand t< incus, and one to stapes. Membrane in aperture of stupes. vertical, and descends parallel to the handle of the malleus, behind and internal to which it lies : it diminishes towards the extremity, where it is bent inwards, and ends in a small flattened knob—the orbicular process (e), for articulation with the stapes. The stapes (fig. 233) has a base or wider portion, and a head, with two sides or crura, like a stirrup. The base (d) is directed inwards, and is a thin osseous plate, convex at the upper margin and nearly straight at the lower, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis, into which it is received : the surface turned to the vestibule is convex, while the opposite is excavated. The head (a) is marked at the extremity by a superficial depression, which articulates with the orbicular process of the incus ; and it is sup- ported on a slightly constricted part, the neck (b). The crura extend horizontally from the neck to the base, and are grooved on the sur- face towards the enclosed aperture : the anterior crus (c) is shorter and straighter than the posterior. Ligaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are farther kept in position by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding wall. Joints of the bones. Where the ossicles touch, they are connected together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are sur- rounded by a thin capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of this nature exists between the head of the malleus and the incus, and a second between the orbicu- lar process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Union of the bones to the wall. The bones are kept in place by the reflection of the mucous membrane over them, and by the following ligaments, three being connected with the malleus, and one each with the incus and stapes :— Ligaments of the malleus. The superior or suspensory ligament is a slender band which descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. The anterior ligament is the strongest of all: it passes from the fore part of the neck of the malleus to a projection at the anterior margin of the notch of Rivinus, and to the sides of the Glaserian fissure. A part of this ligament entering the fissure has been described as a muscle under the name of laxator tympani. The external ligament is short and fan-shaped : its fibres radiate from the outer and posterior parts of the neck of the malleus to the edge of the notch. The ligament of the incus attaches the extremity of the short process of that bone to the tympanic wall at the lower part of the orifice of the antrum mastoideum. The annular ligament of the stapes is composed of veiy short fibres, which unite the circumference of the base of the stirrup to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. Special ligament of the stapes. Closing the interval between the crura of the stapes there is a very thin membrane which is attached' to the groove of the bone. It is covered above and below by the mucous membrane.