259 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. and rela- tions. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The triangularis sterni (fig. 76) is a thin muscle beneath the J™1^'1'11'13 costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the ensiform process, from°the back of the sternum as high as the third costal car- origin; tilage, and usually from the inner ends of the cartilages of the lower two°o'r three true ribs. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper ones also ascending considerably, and are inserted by fleshy slips into insertion; the true ribs except the first and last, at Kg- ?6-* the junction of the bone and cartilage : some of the fibres fre- quently end in an aponeurosis in the in- tercostal spaces. In front of the muscle are the rib- cartilages and the in- ternal intercostals, with the internal mammary vessels and intercostal nerves. Be- hind, it lies on the pleura. Its lower part is continuous with the transversalis muscle of the abdomen (fig. 76, b). The size of this muscle varies greatly, and one or more of the upper slips are frequently wanting. Action. The triangularis sterni assists in depressing the anterior Use- ends of the ribs, and acts with the interosseous internal intercostals in expiration. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY is a branch of the Subclavian Internal (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. artery*17 It is continued through the thorax, lying behind the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the sixth inter- costal space ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- courses culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh cartilage, enters y""°afto the sheath of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the abdomen, chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the chain of sternal lymphatic glands. Its thoracic branches Branches: are numerous but small:— a. A long, slender branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as the superior artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm with the phremc' phrenic nerve : this branch is seen in the dissection of the thorax. b. Small sternal branches supply the triangularis sterni, and small pos- ramify over the back of the sternum. From these, mediastinal ^is* otI* * View from behind of the triangularis sterni muscle, A. 8 2