293 FLEXOR PROFUNDUS D1GLTORUM. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, and Supplies the are distributed to all the superficial muscles except the flexor carpi X", ,'."v*i>t ulnaris ; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep layer through the °lnjlfand a interosseous branch (p. 294), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch (3) arises in the lower fourth of the aada/braiujh forearm ; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses hand. m ° over that band to reach the palm. The radial nerve is the smaller of the two branches into which ?aJ?jaljJu"!e the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus (tig. 84), and on the outer side of the radial artery, to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. It finally it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of ° 0 the hand and digits (p. 284). No muscular offset is furnished by the nerve. Dissection (fig. 85). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissection be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm the u^ies: pronator teres, to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, and to remove its fleshy part. A thin layer of fascia, winch is most distinct near the wrist, is to be taken away ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous mem- brane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Over the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior carpal show carpal arteries may be defined. aicl1' Deep Group of Muscles. There are three deep muscles on the Three mus- front of the forearm. One, covering the ulna, is the deep flexor of Seep1"^116 the fingers ; a second rests on the radius, the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, over the lower ends of the bones. The flexor profundus digitorum (flex, perforans ; fig. 85, c) Deep flexor arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three- offiI1seIs: fourths of the length of the bone, from the inner half of the origin; interosseous ligament for the same distance, and from the aponeurosis of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, passing beneath the annular ligament, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers, insertion. Lying over the muscle are the ulnar vessels and nerve, the Parts superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The arouml ifc' deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor longus pollicis and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The portion of the muscle furnish- ing the tendon to the index finger is separated from the rest by a layer of areolar tissue. Action. The muscle bends the joints of the fingers and the wrist; use on but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been <in>'ers a!ul moved by the flexor sublimis. The fingers are usually bent in the following order:—firstly, the How Angers articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanges; nre bent-