119 TRACHEA AND (ESOPHAGUS. the subclavians (inferior thyroid) pierce the deep surface of the inferior, mass. Occasionally there is a third branch (art. thyroidea ima) which a»d somo- arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascending in tnyroidT front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous ; they are superior, middle, Veins, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 76). The inferior thyroid veins issue from the Inferior, lower part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, forming jj'exus on a plexus on that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; they trachea, enter finally the innominate veins. The trachea, or windpipe, is continued from the larynx to the Trachea thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- lies in neck monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower border ancl fllonix- of the fourth dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a Size, half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the trachea are rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in those parts of the wall; but at the posterior Form, aspect the cartilages are absent, and the wall is flat and mem- branous. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the Cervical following relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it in a"ongSt front are the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep muscles cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On and vessels, each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The oesophagus, or gullet, reaches from the phaiynx to the (Esophagus stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the lower part occupies of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal thorax!' vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. Length. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax Position in where it projects to the left side of the airtube, and touches the lieck' thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus are the and rela- longi colli muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, t'""s' the proximity of the left being greater, in consecpience of the projection of the oesophagus towards that side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directions. The dissector may leam next the digastric and stylo- Muscles and hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve (p. 76). Afterwards he Str" may take the trunk of the external carotid, with the following triangle, branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and superficial temporal (pp. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- Regions bo maxillary regions on the left side, because such a proceeding would 1>0 omitted- interfere with the subsecpient dissections. Before learning the