289 RADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. In its lower half the artery is superficial, being covered only by In lower the integuments and the deep fascia. Here it is placed in a hollow ll!llf' between the tendons of the supinator longus (") and flexor carpi radialis (4). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two muscles of the deep group, viz., flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Veins. Venas comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over to veins; the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is on the outer side of the artery in the to nerve, upper two-thirds of the forearm, but is separated from the vessels by a slight interval near the elbow. In the lower third the nerve passes backwards and becomes superficial behind the tendon of the supinator longus. Branches. The radial artery in this part of its course furnishes Branches: many unnamed muscular and cutaneous offsets, and three named branches, viz., recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the radial re- muscles on the outer side of the limb. Its course is abnost trans- cune ' verse to the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. b. The superficial volar branch (fig. 87, c) is very variable in size, superficial and arises near the lower end of the radius. It is directed towards yolar> the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb ; and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very small, and will be seen in anterior the examination of the deep muscles. Arising rather above the end carl,al- of the radius, it passes transversely inwards at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery : from the arch thus formed, offsets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial artery. When the radial arises high in the aim, Variations its course is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle; of the and in passing the bend of the elbow it is occasionally subcutaneous, i.e., above ralIialr the deep fascia, and liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm the artery al ery' may likewise be subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, the Dissection flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near sublimis the inner condyle of the hunierus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen entering the under surfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR SUBLIJIIS DIGITORUM (flex. perforatllS ; fig. 84,6) is the Superficial largest of the superficial muscles, and is named from its position to nngcrs?f • another flexor in the deep set. It arises in common with the fore- Origin from going muscles from the inner condyle of the hunierus and the three bones intermuscular septa, also from the internal lateral ligament of the °fliWb"