OPHTHALMIC AETEEY. 46 the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the ganglion has Connec- hranches of communication with other nerves (its roots); and from tlons' the anterior part proceed ciliary branches to the eyeball. The gang- lion receives roots from sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves. The branches of communication are three in number. One, the Three roots: long root (5), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which long, joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness, the short root (4), passes to the inferior angle from the branch of the short, third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the sympatlietic root is derived from the cavernous plexus, either in p"^^™" union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the posterior horder of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 11) are ten or twelve in Ciliary number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper toeyebaU. and lower angles at the front of the gauglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. In their course to the eyeball they lie along the outer and under parts of the optic nerve, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The ophthalmic artert, a branch of the internal carotid, enters Ophthalmic the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is outside artery' the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards over (or occasionally in the orbit under) the nerve to the inner side of the orbit, and finally perforates the palpebral fascia above the internal tarsal ligament to end by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches, in size, and may be arranged in three sets :—one arising outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on the inner side. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name Lachrymal to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and ian° joining in the palpebral arches (p. 33). It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it anas- to gland and tomoses with the large meningeal artery by an offset through the eyelids: sphenoidal fissure. The lachrymal artery also sends a small branch with each of the ?,ffsets, divisions of the temporo-malar nerve ; and these join the temporal maSrgbone and transverse facial arteries. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which Branch to pierces the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball. &" The sitpraorbital branch arises beneath the levator palpebixe and Bupraprbi- superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course of the nerve of the tal braudu same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5). The ciliary branches are uncertain in their place of origin and Ciliary enter the eyeball at the front and back :— arteries are The posterior ciliary, four or five in number, run to the eyeball posterior— around the optic nerve, and divide into a number of branches (from fifteen to twenty), which perforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior