564 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. •Superior gluteal. Inferior gluteal. Small sciatic. Puilic. Perforating cutaneous. Branch to pyriformis. Branch to obturator intern us. Branch to quadratus. Sympathetic in the pelvis. The gan- gliated cord joins that of opposite side below in a loop : offsets of lh>. ganglia, to the spinal nerves, to the pelvic plexus and the viscera. Pelvic plexuses the lower limb, and is formed by the union of four large roots from the himbo-sacral cord and the first three sacral nerves. b. The superior gluteal nerve (sg) arises by two roots from the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and leaves the pelvis with the gluteal artery above the pyriformis for the supply of the muscles on the outer surface of the ilium. c. The inferior gluteal (ig) is the nerve of the gluteus maximus. It springs from the lumbo-sacral cord and first two sacral nerves, and passes out below the pyriformis. d. The small sciatic (ss) is the cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, and arises below the foregoing (with which it is often con- nected) from the second and third sacral nerves. e. The pudic nerve (p) supplies the perineum and the genital organs. It arises from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, in company with its artery, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen (p. 421). /. The perforating cutaneous nerve (p c) arises from the fourth, or third and fourth, sacral nerves, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament to the skin of the buttock (p. 422). g. The branch to the pyriformis (py) is usually given off from the second sacral nerve, and enters the anterior surface of its muscle. h. The nerve to the obturator interims (o i) springs from the front of the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the first -sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine and through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, enters the perineal surface of the niuscle : it gives a branch to the superior gemellus. i. The nerve to the guadratus femoris and inferior gemellus (oJ arises from the front of the plexus below the preceding. Sympathetic Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The gangliated cord (fig. 173) lies on the front of .the sacrum, internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it con- verges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loorj in front of the coccyx, on which there is often a median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are usually two to each ganglion, grey and white, and are very short. The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the pelvic plexus; and from the terminal loop offsets descend over the coccyx. The pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 483). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of