101 INFRAORBITAL ARTERY. the teeth, after forming loops of conmiunication with one another, and with the posterior dental nerve. From the middle branch filaments are given to the bicuspid teeth ; and froni the anterior to the canine and incisors, as well as a twig or two to the inferior meatus of the nose. /. The palpebral branches are usually two small twigs which turn to lower upwards round the margin of the infraorbital foramen to reach the e>ei ' lower lid. a. The lateral nasal branches are directed inwards, and supply to side of the skin of the side of the nose. h. The labial branches, three or four in number, are larger than and to upper the others, and descend to the lip, supplying the skin of the face Up' Fig. 25.* between the orbit and the mouth, as well as the mucous membrane of the upper lip. Their ramifications are crossed by, and com- joining municate with the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve, the facial- whole forming the infraorbital plexus (p. 38). The infraorbital artery is a branch of the internal maxillary infraorbital (p. 89). Taking the course of the nerve through the infraorbital artery canal, the vessel appears on the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and mouth. On the face ends in its branches anastomose with onsets of the facial and buccalface: arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small o^|t°lies twigs to the orbit, and a larger anterior dental branch which rims and one t" with the nerve of the same name to the incisor and canine teeth : teeth"" the dental branch also gives offsets to the antrum, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein accompanying the artery communicates in front with infraorbital the facial vein, and terminates behind in the alveolar plexus (p. 89). vcin- * Diagram of the superior maxillary nerve. 2. Trunk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Spheno-palatine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Middle and anterior dental. 7. Facial branches.