POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 63 superficial descending branclies of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath the platysma. The EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN (fig. 14, 8) begins just behind the External angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior division of the tern- vein ^ poro-maxillary with the posterior auricular vein (fig. 15). Descend- ing beneath the platysma to the lower part of the neck, it there pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course ^IJj.8^16 down the neck will be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw subclavian, to the middle of the clavicle. Beyond the stemo-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia, like the aponeuroses in other regions Cervical of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck fasoia- continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane encases the sterno- mastoid, and has a different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the ^^^nd fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses the toid muscle trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck it is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a sends a pro- deep process may be observed surrounding the omo-hyoid muscle, omo-hyoUL1 and passing downwards behind the clavicle, to be fixed to the back of that bone, and the anterior end of the first rib. posterior triangular space. This space (fig. 14), having the form and position before noted, Posterior is about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial space5 of"1 plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a tne neck- ligature is usually placed, and some offsets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat Dissection between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, the posterior of the space< triangle of the neck will be displayed. In the execution of this somewhat difficult task the student should proceed cautiously, to avoid injuring the numerous nerves and vessels in the space. Seek first the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 14, 3), which crosses Find omo- the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and divides it hyoid" into two. Close to or beneath the upper border of the muscle lie the slender nerve and vessels to it: the nerve is derived from the descendens noni, and the artery from the suprascapular. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the branches of the Nerves