62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Bifurcation. Position of two tinuks to one another. Branches. Changes in the place of division of carotid. Jugular vein ; • position varies. Nerves with the arteries, lying along and crossing them. the depressor muscles of the hyoid hone ; hut heyond that spot they are covered hy the superficial layers over the space, and hy the stemo-mastoid muscle which, hefore it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from heneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid hone, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk j hut opposite the upper horder of the thyroid cart i- lage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these arteries are continued onwards heneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the interval hetween the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side hy side, the vessel destined for the internal parts of the head (internal carotid) heing the posterior of the two ; hut ahove the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz., some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always clivide as here said. For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the hyoid bone, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division bejTond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely) furnishing offsets to the neck and head. In close contact with the outer side of both the common and the internal carotid artery, and encased in a sheath of fascia with them, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery. In some bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of the common carotid. Nerves in tlie space. In connection with the large vessels are the following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—On the surface of the common carotid artery, and most frecjuently within the sheath, lies the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve; between the artery and jugular vein is the pnemno-gastric nerve; and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, until it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vessels:—thus, directed transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypoglossal nerve giving off its descending branch (descendens noni). Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, which courses forwards between them. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, (lie superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight ; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the externa] laryngeal branch of that nerve.