303 MUSCLES OF LITTLE FINGER at the thumb, and the base in the centre of the palm. Its origin is from the ridge on the lower two-thirds of the palmar aspect of the middle metacarpal bone ; and its insertion is into the inner side of joins short the first phalanx of the thumb, in common with the short flexor. flexor; The anterior surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor relations; profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the posterior surface lies over the interosseous muscles of the first and second spaces, with the intervening metacarpal bone. The deep palmar arch separates this muscle from the inner head of the short flexor. Action. It draws the thumb towards the centre of the palm. and use. Short Muscles op the Little Finger (fig. 88). In the Two or three hypothenar eminence there are the abductor and opponens muscles Jl"^1^ of the little finger, and sometimes a short flexor. The abductor minimi digiti (e) is superficial to the opponens Abductor muscle. It arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the is beneath ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger ; 8 ' an offset from it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Action. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; use. but continuing to act it bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The flexor brevis minimi digiti (f) is placed at the radial Flexor border of the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the tip of ofteix^tlv- the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular sent: ligament; and it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies on the opponens ; and near its origin it is separated from relations; the abductor by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. It flexes and abducts the first phalanx of the little and use. finger. The opponens minimi digiti (g) resembles the opponens pollicis Opponens: in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its origin is from the ^enta- hook of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament: its insertion is into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The opponens is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and relations; beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards and use. the others, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the Dissection first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it Avill be and66P arch requisite to detach the origin of the flexor brevis pollicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia which covers the interosseous muscles is to be removed, interosseous after the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial artery in the hand (fig. 88). The radial artery enters Radial the palm at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the ?rte7iu first dorsal interosseous muscle; and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, it turns across the hand foma deen towards the ulnar side, forming the deep arch. arch,