DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 218 and base. Contents of the space. Position of large vessels; and rela- tions, with vein and nerves. Situation of branches: in front, behind, inside. Lymphatic glands margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaining the upper boundaries, and the depth. The base or widest part of the pyramid is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reach- ing from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, with their branches ; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the trunks of vessels and nerves. The large axillary artery («) and vein (b) cross the outer portion of the space in passing from the neck to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapulars (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). On looking into the space from below, the axillary vein (b) lies on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen to lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (') to the outer side, and the ulnar (3) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (5) to the inner side; the internal cutaneous (2) gene- rally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (4) and circumflex nerves beneath it, This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this spot. Posit ion of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches of the vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position with respect to the boundaries :— Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic artery runs to the side of the chest; and taking the same direction, though nearer the middle of the hollow, are the small external mammary artery and vein. Extending along the posterior wall, within its free margin and in contact with the edge of the subscapulars muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves (d) ; and near the humeral end of the subscapulars the posterior circumflex vessels (e) and the circumflex nerve bend backwards beneath the large trunks. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—the highest of which is directed across the axilla to the arm, and receives the name intercosto-humeral ('). The lymphatic glands of the axilla are arranged in three sets : one is placed along the inner side of the great blood-vessels; another