186 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Two sets to cerebrum; external, which are upper ami lower: and internal Veins of cerebellum. Dissection. Care to be taken in removing pia mater. Two sets of veins belong to the cerebrum, viz., superficial or ex- ternal, and deep or internal. The superficial veins of the upper part of the hemisphere ascend to the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10) ; and those of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the cavernous and lateral sinuses. These vessels communicate freely together. The deep veins of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen (p. 219), and reach the straight sinus (p. 13). The veins of the cerebellum end differently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occi- pital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be care- fully defined. Over the cerebrum and pons, the pia mater can be detached with tolerable ease by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata the membrane adheres so closely as to require much care in removing it without tearing the brain-substance, or injuring the nerves. In clearing out the groove between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening into the fourth ventricle (p. 235) will be taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblon- gata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Definition. Origin is apparent and real. The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with one ex- ception (spinal accessory), and pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it appears on the surface, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain-substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt; but there is much difference of opinion concerning the deep origin, in consequence of the difficulty of tracing the roots. When Real is from the roots are followed into the encephalon, they enter masses of grey matter. gukstancej containing nerve-cells, which are looked upon as nuclei of origin. ciassifica- The cranial nerves are enumerated as forming nine or twelve tion as nine