503 STRUCTURE OF THE COLON. The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the j°nt^Unal surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about bandBi a quarter of an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix the which are fibres form a uniform layer; but they are continued thence into ^pp*6,','^1 the bands on the ctecum and colon : on the rectum they are dif- and rec- f'used over the surface. When the bands are divided the intestine tum * elongates,—the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are and circular, most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous or submucous coat resembles that of the small intestine, submucous It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings, gnfaifgut. The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- Mucous coat tine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour ; and it is not thrown fo^* into special folds, except in the rectum. The surface is free from villi ; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large and villi, can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This differ- ence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked on the ileo-csecal valve ; for the surface looking to the ileum is studded with villi, while the surface continuous with the mucous lining of the large intestine is free from those eminences. Glands. The mucous membrane is thickly beset with very small Tubular tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkiihn, like those of the small intes- 6lands> tine ; and lymphoid nodules (solitary glands) are scattered over the and lym- whole of the large intestine, but are most abundant in the caecum Sine's! n°" and vermiform appendix. Vessels and nerves. The distribution of the vessels and nerves in Vessels, the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the small. andTyin- The absorbent vessels, after leaving the gut, join the lymphatic pliatics. glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas (fig. 149, e) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Formand to eight inches in length, and larger at the right than the left end. length; It if? divided into head, tail, and body. divisions. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the The head duodenum ; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and a"'1 tail; touches the spleen. The body of the gland measures about one inch and a half in and the breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The rela- body- tions of the pancreas to surrounding parts are described at p. 486. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface, Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by the daot cutting away the substance of the gland. The duct will be recog- • nised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas resembles the parotid gland in struc- n is a compound