DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 Use. Dilator of nostril; anterior and posterior parts. Use. Depressor of winn. Use. Pour muscles of eyelids and brow. Orbicularis palpebra- rum : two parts. Orbital or external, attached internally. Fig. 5. Action. This muscle raises the upper lip and wing of the nose, forming wrinkles in the overlying skin. Dilatator naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril arc a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back part of that aperture (fig. 5, 4 and '"'), to which the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slip (4) passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior (5) arising from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer- edge. The DEPRESSOR ALM NASI (fig. 5, G) will be seen if the upper bp is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed by the side of the framum of the lip. It arises below the nose from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and ascends to be inserted, into the septum narium and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Muscles op the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are lour in number, viz., orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator palpebral superioris, and tensor tarsi t: the two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be described with it. The orbicularis palpebrarum (fig. 6,2) is the sphincter muscle closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, which extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumfer- ence of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer and inner. The external fibres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only at the inner side of the orbit. This attachment (origin) is connected with the borders of the internal tarsal ligament; above the ligament with the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and below the ligament with the orbital margin of the superior maxillary bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle, where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. Some of the peripheral fibres spread upwards to the skin of the forehead, and others downwards to that of the check'. * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor ala3 nasi. 7. Orbicularis oris. t The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of the orbicularis.