691 PEK0NE1 MUSCLES. with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula in front of, and behind it respec- tively. Action. "With the foot free, the muscle extends the ankle ; then use on foot, it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground, it assists to lift the os calcis and fixed; and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walk- 011 the les- ing. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The peroneus brevis (fig. 205, h) reaches the outer side of the Peroneus urBVis is foot, and is smaller and deeper than the preceding muscle. It attached to arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the fibula> lower two-thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece in front of the peroneus longus; and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and fifth liifits.t'Arsflil enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus bone ; to its insertion into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. relations; On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported, this peroneus extends the "rseeenn foot' ankle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. Like the long muscle, it is able if the foot is supported to raise and flxed: the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from stoop- on the leg. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, Examine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become kS^olnt dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected while the knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- Dissection joint, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around to SM kliee. it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure winch may obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A kind of aponeurotic capsule, capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint; and some tendons, nn<l namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semi- tendo,"!- membranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. y y 2