589 ARTICULATIONS OF SACRUM. pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is inserted into the great insertion; trochanter (p. 642). The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the *^*^°n8 01 pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the peivic obturator part of the pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with cav,ty; the puclic vessels and nerve. Action. The muscle also rotates out the hip-joint (p. 642). "se- Coccygeus muscle. The position and the relations of this muscle m0ucJ$f_eus may now be studied from within : it is described at p. 542. LIGAMENTS OP THE PELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of the pel- 9l,tli1? of ° , . « ., , , . , the articu- vis :—The several pieces oi the sacrum and coccyx are united with lations. one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two hip- bones. And the hip-bones are connected together in front, as well as to the spinal column behind. Union op Pieces op Sacrum and Coccyx. So long as the pieces Ligaments of the sacrum aud coccyx remain moveable they are articulated as separate,' in the other vertebrae by an anterior and posterior common ligament, with an intervertebral disc for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 374). After the sacral vertebras have coalesced, only rudiments of the a,ld j°med- ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; and when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, their ligaments disappear. Sacro-Vertebral Articulation. The base of the sacrum is Sacrum articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to lumbar8* those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 374); and by one special vertebra, ligament—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, nients into view, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebras (p. 374). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous fue"]^ ^r substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebrse, and between the spines the supra- and interspinous bands are situate. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a variable bundle of fibres, which am' by a reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse process bamlfsacro- of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base of the vertebral, sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-Coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are Union of united at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and sacrum anii posterior ligament. There are also lateral and ■ interarticular liga- C°C('yx- ments on each side. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When Dissection.