13 VENOUS SINUSES OF CRANIUM. base is directed to the tentorium ; and the apex reaches the foramen magnum, on each side of which it gives a small slip. In it is contained the occipital sinus. The Sinuses are channels for venous blood between the layers of the dura mater. They are arranged in two groups, the one com- prising the sinuses that converge towards the internal occipital protuberance, while the other is formed by the cavernous sinuses on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone and the canals opening into these. A. The superior longitudinal sinus has been described at p. 10. The inferior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, c) resembles a small vein, and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at the contains occipital sinus. Sinuses of the skull. Superior and inferior lon- gitudinal. Fig. 3.1 posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and- the large brain, and ends in the straight sinus (d) at the edge of the tentorium. The straight sinus (fig. 3, d) lies along the junction of the falx straight with the tentorium, extending from the termination of the preceding sinus to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is continued into one of the lateral sinuses, generally the left. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The occipital sinus (fig. 3T g) is a small canal in the falx cere- occipital belli, which reaches from the torcular Herophili to the foramen smus- magnum, and collects the blood from the occipital fossaa. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinuses, right and left, are the channels by which Lateral most of the blood passes from the skull. Each extends from the smns,'s' * Some of the venous sinuses of the skull, a. Torcular Herophili. b. Supo- rior, c. Inferior longitudinal sinus, d. Straight sinus, e. Lateral sinus. g. Occipital sinus. /. Superior, and h. Inferior petrosal sinus.