DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. Shedding of an ovum: corpus luteum. Artery ; veins ; nerves. or more, may be counted at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a small pea. The largest are situate at the circum- ference of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (b). Blood-vessels and nerves. The ovarian artery pierces the ovary at the attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed. The veins begin in the texture of the ovary, and after escaping from its substance, form a plexus (pampiniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Appendage to ovary: situation; form ; structure. Parovarium or organ of Rosenmuller (epoophoron of Waldeyer; fig. 183, k). On holding up the broad ligament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. These are the remains of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the foetus, and correspond to the vasa efferentia of the testicle in the male. The mass is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached border of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number ; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest (the remnant of the Wolffian duct), which is prolonged some- times a short way into the broad ligament. Fallopian tube: length; ;ii nl form; it is dilated externally, and fimbri- ated ; size of the canal is least at the ends. A muscular structure: librcs pro- longed from uterus. Fallopian Tubes (fig. 183, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus. Each is about four inches in length : cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed, and the pieces are called fimbria. When the fimbriated end is floated out in water, one of the processes (the ovarian fimbria ; g) may be seen to be fixed to the distal end of the ovaiy. In the centre of the fimbriae is a groove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at different spots ;—the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdominale). Structure. This tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer; both these are continuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus.