498 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. extent on the intes- tine. Opening of bile-duct; They begin in the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle of the jejunum; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile-duct. The aperture of the common bile and pancreatic ducts (fig. 153, e) is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches below the pylorus, and Fig. 153.* - a where >ituate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 485). A probe passed into the bile-duct will show its oblique course (half an inch or more) under the mucous coat. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. To see satisfactorily the following objects, some pieces of fresh intestine will be necessary. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from which the mucus is washed away, is examined in water, the mucous membrane will be seen to be thickly studded with small pro- jections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 155), sum. being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from -^a-th to ^\th of an inch ; and they are beat marked where the valvulse conniventes are largest. In the duode- and number, nuni their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Krause). Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are The villi cover the surface; their shape size, Several kinds of glands. * A small piece of the'duodenum opened, with a part of the pancreas, show- ing the termination of the bile and pancreatic ducts (Henle). a. Duodenum. h. Pancreas, c. Common bile-duct. d. Pancreatic duct, c. Common opening of the ducts in the intestine.