69 FEONT OF NECK. fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has heen traced from its origin Superficial in the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck nervej (p. 57). Beneath the platysma it divides into an upper and a lower branch :— The upper branch perforates the platysma, and ends in the skin ascending, over the anterior triangle, extending about half way down the neck. While beneath the platysma this branch joins the facial nerve. The lower branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is descending distributed to the integuments below the preceding, reaching as bKmoli- low as the sternum. The INFRAM AXILLARY BRANCH OF THE FACIAL NERVE (p. 38) branch »f pierces the deep cervical fascia, and divides into slender offsets which tc0 tL neck, pass forwards beneath the platysma, and form arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), reaching as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a communica- tion between this branch of the facial and the upper division of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the middle, Dissection, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the superficial nerves of the front of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- Cervical mastoid is stronger than that over the posterior triangle (p. 53), and front of has the following arrangement. Above, it is fixed to the base of the ste™°- n . . ° i i mastoid, lower jaw, and is continued over the parotid gland to the zygoma. A thickened band jmsses backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sheath of the sterno-ihastoid, and holds forwards the anterior border of that muscle. Above this, a deep process is sent inwards from the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to the styloid process, giving rise to the stylo- maxillary ligament. In front, the fascia is attached to the body of the hyoid bone ; and below, to the sternum. Its lower part forms a dense white membrane, which near the manubrium becomes divided into two layers, one in front and the other behind, so as to enclose a small space containing a little fat and the transverse branch of comimmication between the anterior jugular veins. Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles ; and Intermua- that beneath the sterno-mastoid is continuous with the sheath of oular strata- the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium.