96 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. Genio- glossus. Origin. Insertion. Contiguous parts. Use. Lingual artery ascends to the tongue beneath hyo- glossus. Its branches are— to hyoid bone; to back of the tongue; to the sub- lingual gland : to the sub- stance of tongue. Lingual Teins. raises the hyoid hone, according to which end is (ixed- by other muscles. The genio-glossus (genio-hyo-glossus, fig. 23, 3) is a thick, fan- shaped muscle, having its apex at the jaw, and its base at the tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, tin- posterior passing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from base to point. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the muscle is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border corresponds to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the frsenum linguae. On ite outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossns muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of the whole muscle the tongue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. The hinder fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and protrude the tongue ; while the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The lingual ARTERY (fig. 18, /) arises from the external carotid opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At first il is directed forwards above the hyoid bone, and then up-\vards beneath the hyo- glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 24) ; it ends at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery forms a small loop, with its convexity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve ; and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also lie over the vessel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests on the middle constrictor and genio-glossus muscles. Its branches are:— a. A small hyoid brtmch is distributed to the muscles at the upper border of the hyoid bone ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards 1<> the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums an I the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (fig. 24, 9) is the terminal part of the lingual artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio- glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscidar offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the same side This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the muscular fibres of the tongue. The lingual artery is accompanied by two small vena comites, but the largest vein of the tongue is the ranine, which lies external to