443 APONEUROSIS OF EXTERNAL OBLIQUE. aponeurosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Inferiorly, -where they are strongest, some well- attachment marked bundles are connected with the outer third of Poupart's inferi0lly • ligament, and the anterior end of the iliac crest. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and close the npper end of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the cord they pro- from the margin of the ring, they give rise to a membrane named pXmnar the intcrcolumnar or spermatic fascia. On the left side, where the fascia. fascia is entire, tliis thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart's To see ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body, ^^^aot the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 142. ligament,- For this purpose an incision is to be carried inwards, through the aponeurosis, from the front of the iliac crest to a sj>ot about three inches from the linea alba ; and the tendon is to be detached from tinwdown the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel. When the P^nai aponeurosis cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, oblique, near the linea alba, it is to be cut in the direction of a line descending to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown and show towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged from the {£giJ.1^ular surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubis, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular fascia) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Poupart's ligament (fig. 138, d) is the lower border of the aponeu- Poupart's rosis of the external oblique, which is thickened and folded back- llSament: wards, so as to form a slight groove with the concavity up wards. In the hollow of the ligament the lowest fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the cremaster take their origin. Externally it appears round and cord-like, and is attached outer and to the anterior superior iliac spine. Internally it widens as it innerattach- approaches the pubis (fig. 137, d), and is inserted into the pubic ments; spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone for about three-quarters forras of an inch, forming a triangular piece -with its base directed outwards, Gimbernafs which is named GimhernaCs ligament (fig. 140). igamen ; By its lower border Poupart's ligament joins the fascia lata of the its direction, thigh ; and so long as this membrane remains uncut, the band is curved with its convexity downwards, especially when the limb is extended on the trunk. The outer half of the ligament is oblique, an(l parts in and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia : its inner half is 90utact witu placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular fascia. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament Triangular into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards fascia- to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin sheet, to which the above name has been given. Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be Dissection taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts beneath. It ^*IT may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the dictations on oblique.