171 CERVICAL NERVES. Action. It helps in bending forwards the head. Use. Dissection. The small intertransverse muscles will come into view Dissection when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back transvei"- of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the sales, anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the intertransver- sales will be readily seen in front of and behind them. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. The intertransverse muscles are slender fleshy slips in the inter- intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are muscles?6 six pairs on each side—the first being between the atlas and axis. Number " . , , , • an|i attach- One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior ments. tubercles of the transverse processes. The anterior primary divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves Relations, issue between these muscles ; and the posterior primary divisions lie to the inner side of the hinder muscles. Between the atlas and the occipital bone the rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent intertransverse muscles. Action. By approximating the transverse processes these muscles Use. bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The Cervical trunks of the cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the tiieWora- intervertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifurcate into miua sive anterior and posterior primary branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- anterior transverse muscles, and joins in a plexus with its fellows (p. 71). The posterior primary branch turns to the back beneath the and pos- posterior intertransverse muscle and the other muscles attached to branches, the posterior transverse processes; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. The first two nerves leave the spinal First two canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at differ: the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital nerve has anterior and been examined (p. 112). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebra?, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and between the first pair of intertransverse muscles, to join the cervical plexus. The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves are de- posterior scribed in the dissection of the back. branches. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the lower Vertebral part of the neck (p. 69); and its termination is described with the j^yin vessels of the brain. Entering usually the foramen in the sixth Course, cervical vertebra, the artery ascends through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebra?. Finally, the vessel winds back- wards round the upper articular process, and crosses the neural arch of the atlas, piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater, to enter the skull through the foramen magnum. In