STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. 149 the tongue to the hyoid hone, the tongue is to he placed on its dorsum; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles having heen removed, the genio-glossi muscles are to he cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After seDaratiii" those muscles, and cutting across their intercommuni- liyo-glossal r e j t. , . ,i membrane, eating fihres, the edge of the septum will appear. .By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-glossus muscle towards the hyoid bone, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. On the outer side of the genio-glossus muscle is the longitudinal *na inferior bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be hetter seen suhse- cpaently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a Fibrous st rue tuxes thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; the root of the tongue 0f tongue, is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal memhrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ in a submucous layer of the same tissue. Septum. This structure forms a vertical partition between the two Septum, halves of the tongue (fig. 38, b), and extends from the base to the apex, hut does not reach to the dorsum. It is thicker behind than in front, and is connected posteriorly with the hyo-glossal memhrane. To each side the transverse muscle is attached. Its disposition may he better seen subsequently on a vertical section. The hyo-glossal membrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, Hyo-glossal which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the mem rane* body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the hyoid bone. The submucous fibrous stratum of the tongue invests the organ, Submucous and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the yer" posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms hands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the mus- cular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles. Each half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and Muscles in intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished hy eachhalf- having only their termination in the tongue ; and the latter or in- Two kinds- ternal, by having hoth origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. The extrinsic muscles (fig. 3 7) are the following : palato-glossus, Extrinsic j stylo-glossus, genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, chondro-glossus, andnum er' pharyngeo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these, except in the case of the chondro-glossus, are now to be studied. Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left Dissection side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three sty^fani of these muscles, viz., palato- (d), stylo- (b), and hyo-glossus (c), come hyo-glossus, together to the side of the tongue; and, to follow their radiating fibres inwards and forwards, it will he necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous memhrane with the submucous fibrous tissue, and the fleshy fibres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction