415 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. the back, and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- ^'^^J^™ men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the bra; point of division the branches are directed, one (b) upwards and the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous . vertebra, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- spinal artery above and below. From the loops offsets (d) are by loops; furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebra?. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebrae. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), and a cen- like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on thetral vessel- bodies of the vertebrae, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veins (fig. 131) consist of two anterior longitu-intraspinal dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal ; of Jae™e.are veins inside the bodies of the vertebra? ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. The anterior longitudinal veins (b) are close to the bodies of the Anterior vertebrae, one on each side of the posterior common ligament; and ^ on bodies they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the of vertebra:, intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the bodies of the vertebrm. Within the channels in the Veins of the bodies of the vertebra? are large veins, which join on the front of the vertebne- bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater Posterior and the arches of the vertebra?. A large vein may be said to lie on areln'con-8 each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and tact with with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Offsetsarches- from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral foramina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse processes.