723 CILIARY VESSELS AND NERVES. The arteries of the iris (fig. 227, b) have a looped arrangement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (d), hut some come from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle, the long and anterior ciliary arteries form a circle (e) round the margin of the iris; from this ring other anastomotic branches are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the edge of the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arteries in their arrangement in the 227.* iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroid coat. The nerves of the iris are the terminal branches of the ciliary nerves : they divide into branches which accompany the blood-vessels, and communicate with one another so as to form a plexus which gets gradually finer towards the pupil (fig. 227, a). Ciliary vessels and nerves (fig. 224). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 45), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but they will not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The posterior ciliary arteries (g) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards ou the choroid, divide into branches which enter its substance at different points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a circle round the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular branches (p. 46) ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflammation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring round the cornea. The posterior ciliary veins have a different arrangement from the arteries. The branches form arches (vasa vorticosa ; fig. 224, 7i) in * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the iris. a. Half of the iris showing the nerves, a. Nerves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, b, within it. (Kollikcr.) b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, e. Arch of vessels at the outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. 17. Sphincter of the pupil. 3 a 2 Arteries form two circles. Veins. Nerves of the iris. Arteries of the middle cunt: posterior ciliary, two of tliem named long ciliary, anterior ciliary. Veins arc posterior ciliary,