675 EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. toe ; all give offsets to the integuments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve (fig. 207,2) is spent chiefly in the Exte™a|o deep muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves £naentoeand to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It a half; corresponds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides jJa?a^P^r" at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial deep parts; and a deep portion ;—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards (p 680). While the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor J^^8.*0 of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 206) are b^nch^s*1 two. One (') is undivided ; it is distributed to the outer side of ' the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, °ne sme e' and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (8) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toes, and one divided, supplies their collateral surfaces: this nerve communicates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them like ot er8' in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 207). To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the abductor hallucis should be detached from the layer of os calcis, and the muscle should be turned inwards. The internal muscles, plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second Later op Muscles (fig. 207). In this layer are the Muscles of tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor iayerld longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 207, b), while Tendon of entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal of'toe"0^ lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the accessory divides into muscle and a slip from the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and fow : divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with and beneath a these pierce tendon from the flexor brevis (e). About the centre of the meta- tendons" tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor (f) is transmitted ° ' through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two short folds x x 2 *° tendons