BLADDER DURING EARLY PUERPERIUM. 129 Hospital, I was careful to note every case in the early puer- })ermm in which a distinct vesical tnniour was observed, and without a single exception the vesical tnniour was to the right and the uterus to the left. To be exact, out of thirty- eight puerpera observed, there were nine cases of distinct vesical tumour, all of which were right. Now, there are various causes at work in causing these lateral detlections of the uterus. That it is the bladder which dis])laces the uterus, of course there is no doubt, for I have just shown that with an eni])ty bladder the uterus is central. In the first })lace, I believe in many cases they are accidental. As I have already hinted, the right lateral deviation of the uterus admits of ready ex- planation, in the previously existing deviation during pregnancy, and probably a loaded condition of the rectum may he a factor ill right uterine deviation. l)Ut what explanati(tn is to lie ottered of left deviation ? This lateral displacement of the uterus by the distending bladder is matter for study. The mechanism I take to he as follows:—As the bladder fills, the fundus uteri is raised by being thrown from the abdominal wall. It then falls to the right side, not, as I lielieve, owing to the liladder pressing it to that side, but (1) from its natural lie in that direction obtained during ])regnancy; (2) owing, to some extent, to the influence of the rectum ; (3) it may lie from the accident of position. The bladder })ost-partum naturally tends to expand towards the right side rather than to left; and if the influence of the bladder were the only factor at work in displacing the uterus, this organ would deviate more to the left than the right. There seems to me to be two reasons for this : 1. The female bladder is marked by lateral asymmetry. The following observations were made by Barkow:—Out of thirty-five bladders of adult women, in ten the asymmetry was minor ; in twenty-one the asymmetry was major ; out of the thirty-five only four were completely symmetrical. The asymmetry is much more marked on the right than on 9