CLINICAL PAPERS. 204 tuuioiir ascended above brim of pelvds and putrid head of foetus descended, and os became evident. Labour ended by craniotomy.” Merrinian further adds: “ Tliese cases, I con- ceive, establish the fact tliat a retroversion of the uterus may exist at the full term, and, if I mistake not, go far to prove that many cases of supposed extra-uterine gestation were in reality cases of retro verted gravid uterus.” He furtlier cites a case where a fcetus was reimn^ed tlirough the i)f»sterior vaginal wall, sujjposed to l)e a case of extra-uterine pregnancy, wliicli, however, merely turned out to be a case of retroverted uterus. From Merrinian’s time till now cases of this al)- normality have been recorded liy Oldliam, lleid, Diihrssen, Speiher, and others. The following four cases have come under my own })ersonal ol)sei'vation :— Case 1.—A multipara, let. 35, was sent t(j me, supposed to be suffering from a large ovarian tumour. On examination 1 found a large semisolid irregular mass filling uj) tlie abdo- men, and reaching half-way between the undjilicus and ensi- form cartilage. On the left side, below tiie uml)ilicus, the mass appeared softer, but with this exception, the whole tumour seemed one mass, and had all the characteristics (if a semi- solid ovarian. There were no auscultatorv sounds of anv t/ t- kind, and the woman gave a liistory of sujijiressed menstrua- tion f(U' over a year. Per vaginam, the pelvis was filled up by an elastic bulging mass witli a somewhat irregular surface. No trace of a cervix uteri could be found, even after the most careful examination under an;esthesia. Under these circum- stances, 1 tliink I was more than justified in coming to the conclusion tluit the ]iatient was suffering from a large semi- solid sessile ovarian tumour. Indeed, the absence of the os —tlie jiresumption being that the uterus was tilted upwards and forwards, as is so often the case in sessile tumours—the absence of auscultatory sounds, tlie menstrual history, and