93 VA GIiVAL H YSTE RE CTOM K mined, and its removal is a matter of comparative safety compared with the risks of rupture. But even after ru})ture lias taken place, it can be, and often is, dealt with (piite successfully. The difficulty in dealing with extra-uterine pregnancy will always be one of diagnosis. But even here, great and pronounced as the surgical advance has been, it is just possible that, in dealing with extra-uterine pregnancies, especially early ones, the resort to the knife has been overdone, and many early ectopic gesta- tions, even after rupture, have been absorbed and have disappeared without the arbitrameut of tlie knife. Ill pelvi-alidoniinal surgery, by the vaginal route, the advances have been no less remarkable. Tlie dealing witli uterine cancer by the entire removal of the uterus jier vaginam has develo])ed enormously within recent years. The operation can now be done in a few minutes, and that tliis indicates an enormous advance in technique it is impossible to deny. But the question comes to be: Does the operation, so shortened and so simplified, tend much to the prolongation of life of the patient ? It certainly has made the removing of a cancerous uterus a simple and easy procedure, even in moderately advanced cases. But I doubt if it has done much, if anything, to prolong the life of the patient, or to ameliorate her sufferings; and for this reason, that the disease, after hysterectomy, proceeds rapidly to the peritoneum, where it produces for the patient sufferings and a death worse than if no operation had been done at all. That a vaginal hysterectomy stops hceniorrhage and foetid discharge, and relieves pain, there can be no question at all. But this is only a temporary improvement. And for this dire disease even a temporary alleviation of these symptoms would be an advantage, were it not that, with the recurrence of the disease, the ultimate pain and suffering are greater than if it had never been touched at all. Here and now it is not my business to discuss whether