120 CLINICAL PAPERS. Case 1.—]\Irs. S. came under mv ol)servatioii years ago as a liospital out-patient. She liad an enlarged retroverted uterus. For this a sound was })assed and a Hodge pessary introduced, and shortly afterwards slie l)ecame pregnant, and was delivered at term. Ihvo years ago she came under my care again, at St. Luke’s Home, sullering from menorrhagia as well as intermenstrual hiemorrhage. The uterus was found enlarged 2 in. in tlie first stage of retroversion. A fibrous polypus was susi)ected, and, after considerable trouble, I managed to dilate the cervix sufficiently with tupelo tents to alhnv me .just to feel tlie l»ase of tlie tumour. The uterine contractions which this occasioned, however, were so violent, and the pain and general disturbance so great, that I was oldiged to desist. Slie passed tlien into tlie liands of my friend Dr. Kirk of Latligate. I heard no more of lier until she was sent liack to me by him with her uterus enlarged to the umbilicus, and with her menstruation sup]>ressed for five months. In the note sent to me with her by Di'. Kirk, he expressed the opinion that pregnancy alone accounted for the condition. On her arrival in the town, I examined her, and found the uterus enlarged, corresponding to a six-months pregnancy. The cervix was somewhat dilated, and through it 1 could feel the memliranes with difficulty. Ballottement could fie jiractised. There could be no doubt that she was pregnant. The following evening labour pains supervened, and she was delivered of a five- months fmtus and ]ilacenta. Accompanying the third stage there was very jirofuse luemorrhage, so much so that I was obliged to explore the interior of her uterus, which 1 did uuder chloroform, and with the assistance of mv friend Dr. Milne IMuriay. Attached to the fundus by a thick, though soft pedicle, 1 found a well-marked fibrous ]ioly]ius al.iout the size of a small orange. xVfter consultation with Dr. iMurray, we determined, owing to the patulous condition of the os and its easy access.