CLINICAL LOAFERS. 200 ’ Trans. Ed in. Obst. Soc., vol. v. p. 131. consists in transverse descent and extension of the head, then, to a certain inoditied extent, that is wliat we meet with liere ; the depth and extent of the slough and sinus bearing a distinct reference to the length of time the head has re- mained hxed. It is clear, however, that but a short delay of the liead in this particular position will cause a vaginal sinus of very considerable dimensions. This is well brought out in Case 2, where, in a primipara in whom the second stage was scarcely three hours, a sinus of 2 in. in length resulted. Now, these sinuses in this i)articular ])Osition are deeper and more marked than qne would expect from the narrowness of the pelvis and the length of the ])ressure. This admits of exjdanation, in the fact that the sharp ju'ominence of the ischial spines afford a point upon wliicli tlie great bulk of the expulsive force can be readily expended. It can hardly be matter for doubt that the majority, if not all, the cases of persistent occi})ito-posterior occur in more or less deformed pelves. The mere fact of their repeated recurrence in the same patient is of itself a strong proof of this. The invariable occurrence of the lesion over the right ischium is a point to be noted. In looking for an explanation of this, several points are to be noted— 1. Eight occipito-postei'ior positions are more common than left. 2. The occiput bearing on the riglit ischial si>ine excites a greater })ressure than the sinciput bearing on tlie left. (1) Eecause the occiput is (d first more prominent than the sinciput. I say at first, because—thanks to the valuable observation of Dr. Hart ^—the compression which the head undergoes in this position is such that the head is pressed on in its antero-posterior diameter, and thus the asymmetrical wedge sha])c of tlie head is obliterated, so that at the point of contact with the pelvis neither end of the head has an advantage over the otlier, both being equally steep.