105 VA GINAL H YSTERE CTO MY. einaciatiou, and a certain slight degree of erosion and eversion of the cervix was all the siun of disease that could he found. At first it was snpjiosed to l)e a case of cervical catarrh, and was ])ut under treatment appropriate to sucli a condition. As there was no improvement after a fortnight, and as the cervix seemed to hecoine sus})icionsly hard, a piece of tissue was examined by competent authorities at tlie laboratory of the Eoyal College of Thysicians, and the contlition pronounced to he malignant. As the case fulfilled every one of the conditions for hysterectomy—mobility, non-involvement of glands, and freedom of tlie ligaments, with ap])areutly no infection of the Ixnly of the uterus or the l)ladder — the operation was performed, lasting eigliteen minutes, and the patient made a perfect recovery. The fiirtlier history of that case is as follows;—■ The operation was done on July 16. The following (Jhristmas tlie patient was seen by Dr. Lackie, who said that there were several bleeding nodules at the site of the cicatrix, and that the patient was suffering pain. During my absence in April, he again saw her, and pronounced the whole pelvis to be occupied by a cancerous mass, with liaBinorrhage, emaciation, and great pain. She died during that summer. Xow, my comment upon this case is—(1) that 1 could not wish for a more suitable case, both as to the general and local conditions, to operate upon, and that the operation could not be easier or shorter; (2) that for a short period of a month or two the patient was comparatively well ; and (3) that in six months the disease had recurred with intense l)ain, in nine mouths there was a fungating cancerous mass in the pelvis, in a year the patient was dead. Xow 1 am bound to say that, so far as my experience of such a case of cancer is concerned, had the patient l.ieen left alone, her expectancy of life would have been from eighteen months to two years, and her sufferings, which were very great, would have been less.