CLINICAL PAPERS. 170 give way for advaiiceineiit in knowledge and in technique. To tlie sonnd as a replacer of dislocated uteri, as a means of making applications to the cervix and cavity of the nterns, and such like, no excejttion can be taken ; but to its regular \ise as a means of gymccological diagnosis, I must enter a caveat. I slionld pass far beyond my present intention were 1 to (piote cases illustrative of the risks of the sonnd. Ificmatocele of the ovary, persistent ovaritis, double salpingo- ovaritis, and such like, are within my own })ersonal experience, and several of these have been tlie subject idtiniately of abdominal operations. The old contra-indications for the nse of the sound—i.e. cancer, menstrnation, and acnte inllani- mation—stand as they ever did, but increasing knowledge has extended our information with regard to inflammatory and allied conditions of the appendages, which to a former generation were unrecognised and imregarded. I’ersonally, so far as my own clinical teacliing in the liospital is concerned, 1 have endeavoured to minimise the nse of the sound, and tried, at all costs, to inculcate light and careful examination of the pelvic organs by the hands. Its use in the.se days should be exceptional, not usual. The intra-uterine stem jjcssary seems to me to fall under entire reprobation. It may be from my own want of skill or care, or both ; but in my hands it has done infinitely more harm than ever it has done good. It does occa.sionallv occur that pregnancy has followed its n.se, that displacement or dysmenorrheea has been occasionally cured, and in the hands of one alive to its risks it may sometimes be used with safety ; but I only wish now to exqu-ess my opinion over a very considerable experience—that its use, whether in dysnieuor- rli(ca or displacement is, as a rule, to be deprecated, and in the hands of the inexperienced to be entirely barred. My personal knowledge sup])lies me with the records of women who have been permanently maimed, and to very few indeed who have benefited by their nse. Dysmenorrhoea and