69 SESSILE CYSTS. ment made by peeling oft' the In-oad ligament from the tumour wall. Then the tumour is tapped, and a continuation made in the process of enucleation. In many of these large cysts the whole tumour can he absolutely removed ; in one, indeed, where the contents were very thick, the whole mass was removed without tapping. The Ideeding from the torn vessels in the broad ligament is often very profuse, and must he dealt with as the operation proceeds. Then the redundant peri- toneum is removed; sometimes it can he secured by ligature at the base, and dropped hack; at other times it is better to stitch it to the abdominal wall and drain. AVhen the tumours are smaller in size, a similar process, hut somewhat modifted, is to he carried out ; the tumour is exposed and enucleated so far, and then its connection with the uterus is dealt with by a series of firm stitches; or else, if the exposed cavity he too deep to he treated in this way, the walls of the capsule, after bleeding has been checked as far as possilde, can he stitched to the abdominal parietes, and drained. Frequent washing out may he required for a con- siderable length of time. Aluch assistance in these operations, which often involve consideraljle mauipnlation deep in the pelvis, is to he obtained by the electric light, and sometimes the operation will he further facilitated by employing Trendelenburg’s method of elevating the pelvis so as to allow of the intestines being kept out of the way. Prognosis.—In ordinary pediculated tumours, provided the kidneys are healthy and the patient not alcoholic, a favourable issue is uniformly to he expected. The prognosis, however, in sessile cysts is distinctly less favourable—first, owing to the shock of removing a large surface of capsule ; secondly, from the length of the operation ; thirdly, from the difficulty of controlling hieuiorrhage ; and, lastly, from the fact that in many cases drainage has to Ije relied on. Mortality and cause of death.—Out of the twenty-two cases