CLINICAL PAPERS. 42 iiui; might bo <i lut'iiiiituoolo. Still, tlie paroxysmal pain on the right side and the slight enlargement of the swelling con- timietl, and therefore I kept a strict wateh on the patient, (iradiially, little by little, the tnmoiir on the right side heeame more cystic, more tender, and more elastic to toncli. H;cmoi'i'liage continued from time to time from the uterus, and well-marked paroxysmal pain was i)resent every four-and- twenty hours. I did not use the vaginal stethosco})e. No auscultatory sounds could be heard through the alidomen, but the enlargement of the right side tumour, gradual and definite, was a suificiently characteristic symptom, and that, superadded to the passage of the decidua and the enlargement of the uterus, led me to the conclusion that the patient was suffering from an early extra-uterine gestatioii. The local examination was conducted with the utmost care, and the uterus, enlarged and heavy, was found shifted to the left lateral and postei ior side of the ]>elvis. il'he cystic mass which 1 have just described occupied the right side. The mass felt particularly tense and elastic, and gave the impression of l)eing about double the size of a large orange. It was very tender and painful to the touch. On JJecember 2G, having decided that the case was one of extra-uterine pregnancy, the further interference was readily enough settled. Of course, anv treatment other than that bv abdominal section was not entertained. I therefore opened the abdomen on the 2()th of last Oecember, and came on a firm resistant mass in the right side. It was firmly adherent in every direction. ’’The great dillicultv was to find a place to commence the work of separation and removal. I was sur- prised to find the mass so fixed and so solid. From my ])revious examination per vaginam, 1 expected to find it elastic and fluid, and much more mobile. r began by ligaturing the proximal end of the tube, and, alter freeing the adhesions and separating the broad ligament and peritoneum, 1 ligatured the distal eiul and the Itroad