CLINICAL PAPERS. 76 greater than tliat in any otlier direction. Tims the struc- tures situated on the posterior abdominal wall, in the line of greatest pressure, might suffer nmch, wliile only a slightly increased pressure was being exerted on the diaphragm above or on tlie lateral abdominal walls. In the present case, however, there is an argument against the interference with the function of tlie pancreas having l)een the sole cause of the glycosuria. It is scarcely con- ceivable that the removal of pressure from the pancreas would cause the sudden diminution of sugar which occurred immediately after the operation. Considerable time would be necessary for the establishment of the secretion, and for even the partial development of its physiological action. For a further explanation it seems necessary to turn to the hepatic circulation. It has been ]»roved to the satisfaction of all, by Claude llernard and others, that a hypenemia of the hepatic system, that is to say, an increased arterial supply to the liver, will cause glycosuria, and the exact method by which this is brought about does not fall to be discussed here. No direct mechanical interference with the liver or portal system could have any elfect in producing glycosuria, and it is extremely unlikely that a pelvi-abdominal tumour could interfere directly with the hepatic circulation ; but it is not difficult to imagine that the semilunar ganglion, or that portion of the solar plexus lying in relation to the cadiac axis, may have their vasomotor fibres partially paralysed by pressure. The vasomotor su]>ply for the hepatic artery conies from these two sources, and it, along with others, would dilate, and so cause arterial congestion in the liver, which would continue more or less marked so long as the pressure was kejit up. A sudden relief of pressure, both local and general, in the abdomen, such as occurred at the operation, would act, not so much by stimulating these vasomotor nerves, as by causing a sudden dilatation of the large abdominal vessels, and conse-