LESSER GYNAECOLOGICAL aUANL/NLATLONS. 167 logical operations and appliances which have been in constant nse. These three factors are—(1) the improvement in and education of practitioners in the simple manual examination of the pelvic organs; (2) an improved and revised patliology of the infra-vaginal portion of the cervix ; and (3) and perhaps specially, the increased knowledge which abdominal section has thrown upon the contents of the pelvis. It must always seem an ungenerous task on the jiart of any writer to discard the means hy wliicli he has arrived at a rational and accurate knowledge of his sul)ject, and yet it is nevertheless true that many of the procedures, manipulations, and operations which have Ijeen so persistently and regularly described in text-books, are, with increasing experience and increasing knowledge, deserving of a less })roniinent place than they have hitherto occupied. The three factors to whicli I have already alluded have seemed to me to play a most important ])art in this matter, and in what remains of this paper I shall endeavour to point out wherein those three factors have modified the operations which I now propose to discuss seriatim. The fact has been forced on me, that a large nnml)er of cases where abdominal operations have become imperative, have been distinctly trace- able to interference, more or less marked, with the uterus. Xow, for instance, take the speculitm. In my own practice I have not employed a speculum for diagnostic purposes for (piite a dozen years. I can see no good that it can accomplish, but a very considerable amount of harm may follow its nse. All conditions of the cervix that I know of can be diagnosed perfectly well with the fingers.^ Xow and then a badly situated vesico-vaginal fistula may require the aid of the speculum to see its point of exit; but this is rare and exceptional. The great bulk of gymecological cases can be ^ The ap2y<'arance of the cervix will not facilitate the diagnosis between simple and malignant condition. Often a speculum of some description is re- quired to remove a piece for inicrosco[)ic examination.