SENILE UTERINE CATARRH. 143 occasionally in gouty women; but of course in the gouty condition it is only a form of uterine catarrh, with gouty endometritis as its basis. The symptoms are extremely like those of malignant disease. The ]>atient suffers from vaginal irritation, and sliows marked signs of general cachexia, tlie skin becoming sallow, and general emaciation sets in. This is i-eally due to a slow sepsis, which is further shown in occasional rigors and night sweats. The most striking symptom, and that for which tlie patient generally seeks advice, is the vaginal dis- charge, whicli is watery and semipurulent, tliough frequently it contains a considerable amount of blood. The odour of this discliarge cannot be said to be characteristic; it is, as a rule, though not always, most offensive, and in some cases I have seen has been even more so than in marked cases of cancer. It may cease from time to time, and wlien it reappears it is generally with a gush of sanious pus. Along with these symptoms there is frequently a certain amount of abdominal pain, pain in the back, and “ progressive invalidism.” I’er vaginam, one finds the uterus slightly enlarged, or more often normal in size—as a rule, not normally atrophied. The introduction of the sound causes great pain, and if a scraping be removed, this sliows inflammatory changes— infiltration of leucocytes, reduplication of cells, and granular degeneration. The mucous membrane of the uterus has l.ie- come hypertrophied and succulent, and is easily detached. In cases of malignant disease of the body of the uterus, all the above-mentioned symptoms are aggravated, but on vaginal examination the uterus is always markedly enlarged, and much more fixed than in senile catarrh. lieal “ floodings ” are much more common in cancer than in the simple condition. With appropriate remedies, senile uterine catarrh will be found to rapidly improve in the course of a week or two, whereas any treatment other than operative is of no avail in malignant disease; and 1 have only verv