OCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. 193 posterior fontanelle, but the anterior extremity of the sagittal suture. In other words, from the obliquity of the uterus and the resistance of the tissues in the neck, tlie occiput is carried against the pehdc wall of the uterus and the sacral promontory, and a certain degree of extension is the result. Now, it seems that this degree of extension, tliis difficulty in completing flexion and of driving the flexed head into the pelvis and bringing it to impinge on the os uteri—constitutes the main difficulty in occipito-p05terior positions all through labour. For tlie same reason tbe cervix suffers to a erreater extent in occipito-posterior than occijnto-anterior positions, the dilatation required in the one case being greater than in the other. Meigs says: “ When the vertex is to the front it enters the os uteri favourably, and passes through the orifice with a circumference of 10^ in., or a circle of 3^ in. diameter; but when in a posterior direction, the latter acquires a circumference of 12 i or 13 in. A further complication is met with in the second stage, when the resistance of the pelvic floor is encountered and rotation takes place. With any of the three possibilities of rotation there is delay. (1) If forward, there is double the distance to travel to that demanded in a first or second position; (2) if hacJcward, the uterine force drives the head against the floor of the pelvis. The result is, instead of the head being pushed up from the floor of the pelvis and escaping under the pubic arch, it rolls back into the hollow of the sacrum under the sacral promontory. Here again the essential thing to do is to obtain flexion. It is no part of my present object to discuss the important practical question which here arises, whether we can hope for a change spontaneously or by art. The main point is to secure flexion. But a third possibility may occur, again, as a result of want of flexion, that is, when the pelvic resistance behind prevents descent and flexion, and when the liead becomes jammed