CASES OF EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION 49 us now. In cuttinc!; throuu’h the sac wall with the thermo- cautery, I passed through a mass of frialde placental tissue, and detached over the interior of the sac I found smaller pieces of altered placental tissue separate and distinct from the lai'Lrer mass. As to the nature of this tissue, it is sutlicient to say tliat, after being subjected to microscopical examination, it was proved to contain villi somewhat enlarged and greatly degenerated. Some of the larger villi, especially here and there, were distinctly distended, and gave the appearance almost of a mucoid condition. I had before me a very distinct recollection of a case of extra-uterine pregnancy recorded by Dr. Hart to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society, where he found no foetus at the time of operation, but where the foetus ultimately escaped from the gestation sac some days later on. I was therefore prepared to make a specially careful search for a foetus, but neither in the })rimary sac nor in the secondary could a)iy trace of it be found. Tliere was no cord, and the sac wall was entire, so that the foetus coidd not have escaped into the abdominal cavity. It seems to me that the explanation of this case is to be found in the altered condition of the chorion. Early, no doid3t, in gestation, degeneration of the placenta had set in, probably in the direction of myxoma, and, as is well recognised in intra- uterine myxoma, the foetus had perished and been absorbed. A similar condition came within my observation in intra- uterine pregnancy some time ago. It was as follows:—The patient, let. 54, was sent to me suffering from uterine hiemor- rhage, which had gone on for many months. It was supposed to be a uterine polypus. I found the uterus enlarged about the size of a four months’ pregnancy, and after dilating the cervix expected to find a large intra-uterine polypus. In lieu of that I found the uterine cavity filled witli old blood clot and some fresh blood as well. I cleared this out, and found irregular rough masses attached to the posterior uterine wall. 4