K4GINAL HYSTERECTOMV. lOI disposed to think that the surgical method of dealing witli uterine cancer has done little either to ameliorate suffering or to prolong life, and that once a uterine cancer is recognised, palliative local measures and a hapj)}’ euthanasia througli morphia are the best solutions of the difficulty. Snell a statement may liave tlie versimilitnde of despair, and, so far as I personally am concerned, tliat is my position. I liope and trust tliat the day may yet dawn wlien we shall have measures, whether therapeutic or surgical, of dealing with uterine cancer effectivelv, hut I confess that 1 do not believe it has dawned yet. i’erhaps these statements are somewhat at variance with the oist of the address I had the honour of makino- as President 0 O of the Section of Obstetrics, to the British IMedical Association some years ago. Then I was captivated with the wonderful iinjirovements made in the technique in the operation of vao;inal hvsterectomv hv I’aris suro-eons, and introduced to us here, especially by Professor Simpson. Unfortunately, so far as my own personal experience has been concerned, improved technique has not bettered my results. For the last series of cases have all been done with this enormous advantage, Imt without any improvement in the ultimate result. 1 have honestly stated my own experience, and 1 shall he only too pleased if, whereas my work reads failure, the results of others give a more optimistic view of the case. The following are mv cases in detail :— O t/ In any account of vaginal hysterectomy, with our improved methods of operation, recovery is, as a rule, to be expected. The immediate risks of the operation, when undertaken in circumstances at all favourable, are small. Tliose cases which succimih shortly after the operation must and can only be badly selected ones, where the fornices are small, where the disease has involved tlie posterior wall of the bladder (a con- dition always difficult of diamiosis lieforeliand), or where hoemor-