CLINICAL PAPERS. 86 pelvis cis I luive (Icscrilted, with the ndditiuii thfit there Vcis <i distinct fulness <it the left side, the nature of vhich, at the time, I did not recognise. On further inquiry, I found that she had had this inid- teriii i)ain, lasting for a few hours, regularly for four of ^i^'e years. A\dth a view to curing her dysinenorrhoea, the cervix uteri was dilated, and she was sent olf, in the hope that her dvs- nienorrhoea would 1)6 relieved. Mouths later she was Ijrought hack again by her mistress, who said she was ([uite unfit for her duties as a servant, and must therefore, unless cured, leave her situation, all the more so as twice in the month she was temporarily hors de conibat. 1 am not perfectly sure what the further treatment was whicli she underwent for her dysmeuorrheea, l)ut, whatever it was, it was unavailing. The case was brought to me after I came to Ije in charge of beds in the Infirmary, and, after carefully considering the matter with the doctor in whose cliarge tlie patient had been, I somewhat unwillingly removed the ovaries. 1 found tliat there was well-marked liydrosalpinx of the left tube. The fact that this condition of the hydrosalpinx, of the size of a small hen’s egg, was not found except on tlie one occasion, referred to above, led me t<j tlie conclusion that it was one of those cases of hydrops tub;e profluens, and this conclusion was entirely supported by the subsequent history of the case ; because, although the removal of her ovaries and tubes neither stopped her menstruation nor cured the dysinenorrhoea, the intermenstrual jiain did not recur for at least a year after- wards, since which time T have not heard of the case again. The four cases recorded liy I’riestley,^ which ajipear to he the earliest recorded cases ])resenting this condition, have the following as their jirominent features :—Pain, paroxysmal, in the region of the ovary, occurring during the intermenstrual ’ Brit. Med. Journ., Loiiclon, 1S72, vol. vii.