BLADDER DURING EARLY FUERPERIUM. 125 acting on its posterior surface. But it may be said roughly that its fundus, some hours after delivery, is to be found at or quite close to the level of the umbilicus. Immediately after labour, I have said, it varies, being sometimes so deep in the pelvis as to be scarcely felt, and at all times its level immediately after delivery is lower than after the lapse of a few hours. The organ is inclined forwards, so that the anterior surface of its fundus is in close relation to the anterior abdominal wall, through which it can ahvays be readily palpated. The organ is too large to fall below the promontory, and in the ordinary position the pressure of the intestine is directed on the posterior wall. It is usually found occupying a central position, although deviations from the mesial line are very frequent. I do not now" refer to distinct displace- ments, but simply deflections of the uterus to one or other side. Out of sixty cases observed at the Maternity Hospital, fourteen deviate—four left, ten right ; forty-six median. Borner noted sixty-four cases—fifty-three median, eleven deviations. Such is the relative position of uterus and bladder when the latter viscus is empty. While the bladder is filling and after it is distended, various changes take place in its relation to the uterus. Unlike either early pregnancy, where its expansion is interfered with by the anteverted uterus, or late pregnancy, where it is limited by the anterior uterine segment, or parturition, where it is compressed between the abdominal wall and uterine body, the post-partum bladder meets with no obstacle to its distension upwards. Its recognition supra- pubically is simple enough. Per vaginam, when the bladder is distended, through the anterior vaginal wall is felt a firm elastic swelling, which completely fills the anterior vaginal arch and presses it down. The cervix is high up and well back, and it is impossible to feel any part of the anterior uterine wall in front of the cervix, unless, indeed, very con- siderable pressure is made on the uterus from above.