66 CLINICAL PAPERS. records a case which came under Ids observation. JJetailed reference to this class of case would lead us beyond our present subject. The iiaper is well worthy of perusal. Although much depends upon the direction in which they grow, the following seems to be the simplest classi- fication of sessile cysts, so far as their origin and nature is concerned :— 1. Ovarian, from the hilum, and usually papillomatous. 2. Tarovarian—(a) either simple from the liorizontal tubes, or {h) paj)illomatous from the vertical tubes. d. Jji'oad ligament cyst ])roper, without reference either to the ovary or parovarian. Diagnosis.—With regard to the diagnosis of sessile tumours, though it is surrounded with considerable difficulty, it can be made fairlv accuratelv. It mav be extremelv «/ 1/ t. difficult in the early period of the tumour’s existence, when it is apt to he mistaken for a broad ligament luematoma. Their slow, steady growth, and the presence of a tense elastic feel- ing, will lead to a suspicion of its nature. Later, they iiecoine less spherical and less circumscribed than other ovarian tumours. They are unilateral or bilateral, and are in close camtact with the uterus, being more or less lixed. Ill the alxlominal examination two points are especially of importance : the one is, that the cyst is usually very tense, and that occasionally the uterus, as in Case 171, can be dis- tinctly felt tiltal up above the hrim of the piclvis, and in the case of unilateral tumours the uterus is shifted to one or other side. But the main point, which, if not absolutely ])athognonionic, is very nearly so, consists in the fact that, on introducing the lingers into the vagina, the vault is found occupied by a firm, tense, resistant mass, and that the cervix cannot be reached, or, if felt at all, only the lip is discovered high up liehind the symphysis pubis, almost beyond touch. (Jf course, I have seen the same produced occasionally by a ])ediculated dermoid ovarian, or by a sacculated pregnant uterus.