72 CLINICAL PAPERS. had been norinal and regular up till six niontlis i)revious to admission, when it ceased suddenly, there being no vaginal discharge of any kind from that date. ^Micturition gave rise to no pain or uneasiness, and the amount of urine secreted did not exceed the normal. On examination, however, the urine was found to contain blood, a small (piantity of albumin, and a large amount of sugar; its specific gravity was 1047 ; jievertheless, it contained a normal or diminishetl ]iro])ortion of urea. On November 2G she })assed 2b oz. of urine and 545 grs. of sugar, the urea being about 270 grs. The albumin was due to the presence of blood, the result of cystitis, and disa})peared along with the cystitis under treatment. There was no excessive thirst or a]>])etite ; the thoracic viscera were normal, and the skin healthy, moist, and free from any eruption—not even the labia showing any signs of irritation. Her general health seemed good, in s]»ite of her many troubles. On examination, the al)dominal walls were found to be thickly lined with adipose tissue, a pelvi-ahdoniinal tumour was felt rising as high as the eighth costal cartilage, freely movable, painless, non-fluctuating, and dull on percussion. A resonant note was obtained in both llaidvs. Auscultatorv simis t. O were negative per vaginam, hut little further information was obtained. I’lie cervix w.is very high uj) and atro])hied, the uterus small and lying to the front, and the })osterior and lateral fornices were empty. With respect to the diagnosis, 1 had no doubt as to the miture of the tumour, regarding it as a large colloid ovarian. The nature of the glycosuria, however, re([uired some considera- tion. That it was not a typical case of diabetes was evident from the al)sence of ])olyuria, thirst, etc., and the ([uestion arose. Was it a form of glycosuria which would contra-indicate surgical interference ? 'I’he danger of operating on diabetic ])atients is well recognised by surgeons. Indeed, it has been laid down as a