65 SESSILE CYSTS. cysts can be shown to be distinct and separable. A few ex- ceptions to this have Ijeen recorded, notably a innltilocnlar by Tait, and a l)ilocnlar by Sir Spencer AVells. Their outline is uniform, and their walls are extremely thin, Ijeing covered by a peritoneal investment distinct from the sac wall, and over which the line peritoneal vessels can be seen to course. This peritoneal layer is generally easily stripped off from the free surface of the tumour. The Fallopian tube is stretched over its surface, to which it is closely applied, until it may have attained a length differing greatly from the normal condition. The ovary also may become approximated to the surface of the cyst, l)ut is never incorporated in its wall, as in the ovarian, or to a lesser degree in the paroophoritic cyst. 'Fhe contents are clear and watery. Tait describes one kind of cyst as being not nncommon in the broad ligament, which develops a large quantity of nn- striped mnscnlar fibre in its walls, so that occasionally it looks almost like a recently pregnant uterus greatly distended. He at tlie same place refers to a cyst of the broad ligament which he removed, the walls of which, when collapsed after removal, were more than an inch thick. Tlie possibility of extirpating these sessile cysts depends greatly on the amount of embedding of the tumour which has taken place, and on the degree of absence of the pedicle. The broad ligament may be separated close to the uterus, and the tumour in close juxtaposition to its wall; or the infnndibulo- pelvic ligament may be unfolded, and a close connection formed with the pelvic muscles; again, the peritoneum may l)e elevated from the pouch of Douglas, and the tumour be- come adherent to the walls of the intestines; or the cyst, primarily unilateral, may pass across to the broad ligament of the opposite side ; or it may raise the peritoneum from the 2:»ara^•esical fascia, and come in relation to the aljdominal wall, so that in operating the peritoneal cavity is not opened into. Haig Ferguson, in an interesting paper on this subject, 5