ETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL HEMATOMA. i8i the altered position of the uterus. It will be apparent, and it is a fact borne out by clinical oljservation, that the symphysis pubis acting as a fixed point, the greatest tension and stretcli- ing will be on the posterior vaginal wall. In an interesting and suggestive paper, read to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society some years ago by Or. Hart, on rupture of the vagina, he drew attention to two facts bearing on the present subject—(1) that vaginal rupture is generally high up on the posterior vaginal wall; and (2) when it does occur, it is generally transverse. The posterior vaginal wall, especially at its u})per part, is, during pregnancy, very thin. This thinning is in- creased in a normal labour by the uterine action dragging up the cervix and vaginal walls; Imt in the cases I have just re- ferred to there is the very great additional stretching induced by the abnormal position of the uterus, and the long-continued ineffectual contraction of the uterine walls. The venous supply to the vaginal wall consists of a large plexus of veins, some submucous and some just outside the muscular coat, emptying themselves into the internal iliac. These veins, in common with the other veins in the pelvis, are valveless. In pregnancy, these veins, to a greater or less extent, become varicose, owing, no doubt, to the heavy uterus preventing the entrance of the venous blood to the vena cava. So uniformly is this varicosity present, that, under the name of Jacc{uemier’s test, it lias come to be recognised among the corroliorative signs of pregnancy. Often the venous tissues become so dis- tended with varicose enlargement that they become quite perceptible to the finger in the vagina, and can be felt projecting as well-marked cyst-like swellings. Further, it must be borne in mind that, in proportion to the amount of varicosity, so will the wall of the vessel be thin. Hervieux, Laborie, and others are not inclined to believe that varix enters much into the production of these vascular swellings. I’erret has collected a series of sanguineous tumours of the vagina, cervix, and vulva, and points out that they occur more