FIBROID TUMOURS DURING RR EG NANCY. 115 to induce premature laljour or remove the tumour. I decided upon the latter. Labour, however, set in, and she was de- livered of a seven-months child, which did not survive. The labour was normal, but immediately afterwards she had a very considerable peritonitis, and the tumour continued to grow with marked rapidity. Owing to the continuance of the peritonitis, and the rapid growth of the tumour, I determined to operate within six weeks after delivery. I opened the abdomen, and found extensive and recent peritonitis, and instead of having to deal with an ovarian tumour as I had expected, I found a large fibro-cystic tumour; the still en- larged and recently pregnant horn of a bicornuous uterus could now be easily made out. The sound showed a single cervix and a double uterine cavity. The left side cavity, which had contained the foetus, was still about in. long; and the right, from which the tumour projected by a pedicle, was a little larger. The two were distinctly separated by a sulcus, and were connected apparently through the cervix uteri only. The tumour was exposed, and first ligatured by the elastic ligature, and afterwards grasped by the Koeberle clamp and the delta wire. The peritoneum was adjusted round the stump, and the patient made a good recovery. Case 2 was sent to me by Dr. Cameron of Innerleithen, who, in his note with the case, said that the patient had a large tumour, and was pregnant. On examination I found her a young woman of 30, married for one year, with a large solid tumour reaching up to her ensiform cartilage. There was neither uterine souffle nor foetal heart to be heard anywliere. Ter vaginam, the cervix, though large, was firm and hard, and as her menstruation had been regular, I was disposed to think that my friend Dr. Cameron’s diagnosis was wrong. I passed the sound into the uterus, and found it of its normal size. T wrote to Dr. Cameron, and told him that I was obliged to disagree with him. I was disposed to think that the patient