LESSER GYNECOLOGICAL ALANLPULATLONS. 173 of cases where, from pre-existing disease, serious injury has been done to the patient, yet I do most distinctly mean to state that, in a case of dysmenorrhoea, where the bimanual examina- tion reveals no appendage trouble, where the repeated passing of the sound causes no after-effects, and where, therefore, the dysmenorrhoea is found to be in the uterus alone, dilatation, with careful antiseptic precautions, gives better results than any other procedure witli whicli I am acquainted. The ques- tion is, “ Is it permanent ? ” This must l.)e answered with some degree of qualification. In a few cases, specially those which seem to be of a purely spasmodic nature, and where the pain of the dysmenorrhoea is associated with the first few hours of menstruation, it is distinctly permanently curable ; but where the dysmenorrhoea extends into the first two days, or occurs at irregular intervals during the period, such dilatation often requires repetition. The same may be said of sterility; and here, in the treat- ment of this condition, and after having tried most of the recognised methods of dealing with this difficulty, I have by no means met with the success which many operators would lead us to expect. I can point to a case here and there where, after dilatation of the cervix, pregnancy has occurred ; but I can point to a much larger number of cases where all the treatment, whether by dilatation or by other means, has failed to remedy this distress. My own teaching with regard to sterility is, that unless one can find some definite and distinct removable lesion, all interference with the patient ought to be avoided. Nothing has surprised me so much in reading the papers and communications with regard to sterility, as to find the success which numbers of writers claim. My own experience in the treatment of sterility has been that my successes are rare and my failures frequent. Curetting the uterus is perhaps the most popular, as it certainly, in proper cases, is one of the most satisfactory of the minor gynaecological operations. After abortion, and in many