6i SESSILE CYSTS. Whilst the tmiioiir is yet of small size it may be uncon- nected to the uterus or other organs, but as it increases it separates the layers of the broad ligament, until it receives a broad base of attachment to the side of the uterus. With the growth of the cyst, the uterus is elevated in the pelvis, and becomes pushed to one or other side, that is, if the tumour l)e unilateral; and a bilateral position in these cases is not uncommon, being also generally ante verted. The further spread of the tumour is in the direction of cellular tissue, beyond the broad ligament, l>etween the uterus and rectum into the pouch of Douglas, or into the retro- peritoneal space proper, coming in contact with the spine and the great blood vessels situated there ; oi’ it may proceed between the folds of the mesentery, being in intimate relation to the walls of the intestines. More rarely it passes anteriorly between the uterus and the bladder, which it iuv^olves in its progress until it has reached the abdominal wall. One such case I operated on, which turned out to he a large suppurating cyst, which had been mistaken for a vesical tumour. After long draining and washing out, tlie patient made an excellent recovery. When the tumour is bilateral, tlie uterus is dragged upon till it is raised out of the pelvis, and the vagina appears, on examination, to be increased in length and diminished in caliljre. The uterus may he indistinguishable, being en- croached upon from either side l)y the tumour mass till it is completely involved. The cysts often contain a large number of papillary growtlis, which fill the smaller cysts, then rupture them, and finally may even burst through the primary cyst wall; after which they extend to the neighbouring organs, or the}' may perforate througli the floor of the cyst and grow into the sub- jacent organ, thus fixing the tumour. The parts chiefly affected thus are the pelvis, uterus, rectum, and bladder. The smaller cysts are mainly filled witli papillomata, the larger