107 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOMY. given me l»y her medical attendant was correct, and I pro- ceeded to curette the nterns, which was enlarged, witli tlie cervix somewhat gaping, and well-marked ectropion. I sub- mitted tlie debris, removed by curettage, t(j IMr. Stiles for microscopic examination, and to my surprise lie told me the case was one of tubular carcinoma. Even from such an authority as Mr. Stiles I was unwilling to accept this, and it was only after an interval of a fortnight that I removed another scraping for examination by ]\[r. Stiles, but his report was just the same as before. I tlierefore, without further delay, performed vaginal hysterectomy. If ever there was a case in which the operation was easy, this was the one; and where hopes of remote recovery were warranted, there never was a l^etter, because the liroad ligaments were absolutely free, and the disease was entirely localised to the fundus and body. Now, within six weeks, she had slight recurrence of the Inemorrhage from the cicatrix, and an enlarged gland in the left groin. She went to her home in the north, and although I never personally saw her again, she died of malig- nant peritonitis within the year. i\Iy comment on this ease is obvious. A woman’s ex- pectation of life with intra-uteriue cancer is from tw'o to five years. Howard Kelly, himself a keen operator, admits five years as a possilde duration for an intra-uterine ca.ncer, when not interfered with. This patient was in excellent health, she sufibred absolutely no pain, and had no sympt(un except the hicmorrhage; and had it not been for the practice that I invariably make of having the scrapings after a curettage examined by the microscope, this patient would have gone home without any reason to suppose she was sufiering from cancer of any sort or kind. It will be further observed that she had no pain before the operation, and it was only after- wards that, when tlie disease spread to the peritoneum, her pain was intense, and she died in terrible sufiering from malignant peritonitis.