CLINICAL PAPERS. I So recovered perfectly, and one had a normal labour subsequently. No doubt a good deal depends on their extent and situation, but so long as they are confined either to the vulva or vagina, reinain of moderate dimensions, and do not begin in or extend to the perimetric tissue, they seem to be less serious than was at one time supposed. ]\Iy present object is to point out what 1 believe to be the etiology of this form of vaginal Inematoma, or, at all events, one, of the causes. In wliatever respects the cases I have recorded may differ, they bad the following points in common—(1) The women were multipane ; (2) the labour was delayed ; (3) the cause of delay w^as misdirection of tlie uterine power from anteversio uteri or pendulous belly ; (4) at the occurrence of the bicmatoma the bead was still at the l)rim. First, then, there is the common feature of pendulous belly. This, of course, when not associated with narrow brim, as it sometimes is in primiparic, means ante version of the gravid uterus, from relaxation of the abdominal walls. This is a question of degree so slight that the contraction of the uterus may be sufficient to remedy the displacements, or to such a marked degree that the fundus uteri comes to lie on a level lower than the cervix. Nay more, cases have even l)een related where, owing to a split in the recti muscles, the gravid uterus has prolapsed tbrougb the aperture and reached almost to the knees, covered only by skin and fascia. In even moderate cases there is a certain amount of fiexion as well, the under part of anterior wall of the uterus being bent over the anterior wall of the pelvis, the symphysis pubis acting as a fixed ])oint. In this way tension is made to a very marked degree on the vaginal walls. Tins tension is produced by two factors—(1) the tilting forward of the uterus over the symphysis—this, of course, being in direct proportion to the amount of anteversion ; (2) by the uterine pains. They will, by drawing on the posterior vaginal wall, increase the tension already caused by