BLADDER DURING EARLY PUERPERIUM. 127 I have just said that the noniial puerperal uterus is central. This, however, is a point upon which there is apparently some difterence of opinion. Tor while some, as Schroder, and with him the majority of observers, hold that the usual position of the uterus is riglit lateral deviation, others, such as Bonier, maintain that in the majority of cases the uterus is central. It is ini])ortant, in studying the eflects of bladder distension, to look at this ([uestion shortly. 1. Considering the great pre])onderance of right lateral deviation of the pregnant uterus, such an inclination during the i)uerperium is just to be expected. Tor instance, in the table given by Joulin from Dubois and Bajot, among one hundred women, twenty no deviation, four to left, seventy-six to right. This right lateral deviation is not only to be expected, but, as has been shown by the authors above mentioned, and by many other oliservations, is really the case. Yet several considerations go to throw some doubt on points, for the more accurate observations of Bonier show that, when certain conditions are imposed, the central lie of the uterus is found to be the most common—out of sixty cases, fifty-five mesial, four right, one left; or, in the sixty cases taken during my own term, where the same conditions were observed, in forty-six no deviation, ten right, four left. Tiow these con- ditions are—(1) an empty bladder; (2) an empty rectum; (3) the supine position of patient. 'Wdien these conditions are observed, it will be found that the mesial position is the most frequent, and, being the most frequent, therefore the normal one. l\Iy own observations liear tliis out, and I have found that when lateral deviation was masked with either a loaded rectum or a somewhat dis- tended bladder, the mesial position was resumed when these organs were emptied. Further, and this is a point which is not sufficiently insisted on, the position of the patient has a great deal to do with these deviations. A very slight deviation of the liody to one or other side is sufficient to give