68 CLINICAL PAPERS. abdomen. Tlie cervix, liowever, wa.s somewhat pushed to the side, thougli there was no bulging into tlie fornices. AVJien the abdominal walls were cut through, and the tumour exposed, the surface presented exactly the a])pearanee of a la-egnant uterus. It was of a deep red colour, highly injected, and with large venous trunks inosculating freely on the surface. 1'hough before the abdomen was opened the tumour felt tense, after the al)d(jininal walls were cut through the consistence of the tumour felt softer and doughy. So exactly did the surface of the tumour tally with the appear- ances presented in a Ca-sarean section, that 1 hesitated for a time before proceeding; and in this connection I would desire to refer to a point that I have not seen mentioned, and which adds to the difficulty of diagnosis, even after the tumour has been exposed. It is this : In most cases a sessile tumour can be recognised, from the fact that the capsule is but slightly, if at all, adherent to the tumour Ijelow, and therefore the tumour can be seen moving underneath it, which of course decides the question as to pregnancy. But in some cases, as in the one at present referred to, the capsule walls are very thick, very vascular, and adherent to the tumour beneath. Hence the condition is masked. Further, it must be kept in view that, on passing the fingers round the tumour, one finds the peritoneal surface of the uterus continuous with that of the cyst, and if the case has advanced considerably, the ])Ouch of Douglas and so-called poucli of Betzius may l>e entirely obliterated, the peritoneal layer passing directly from the surface of the tumour on to the iliac fossa and spinal column. It is impossible, then, to get the fingers into the pelvis, except by the cellular tissue behind the symphysis pubi.s. Treatment.—With regard to operative interference, no definite technique can be laid down for all cases ; each must he managed according to its own merits. Usually, when the tumour is large, and after its nature has been recognised, an incision is made somewhere in the capsule, and a commence-