75 GLYCOSURIA AXD OVARIOTOMY. suria aud the effects of treatment. Previous to the operation, dieting and the usual remedies produced little or no diminu- tion in the amount of sugar voided, and even after the removal of the tumour it is very doubtful wliether they hastened in any measure the final disappearance of the glycosuria. It mav he fairlv assumed, from the course and historv of this case, that the tumour and the ylvcosuria stood in the relationship of cause and effect, ami were not merely coin- cident. The ([uestion at once arises. In what way does the cause operate ? In the light of recent research there seem to he two possible cliannels, namely, either by an interference with the glycolytic function of the pancreas, or with the hepatic circulation. It is not the object of this paper to discuss tlie much disputed question of pancreatic glycosuria. Suffice it to say, that most physiologists now agree that tlie pancreas jdays a very important part in regulating the amount of carbohydrates contained in the l)lood. Whether its secretion acts directly on the excess of "lucose in the blood, or so stimulates the liver cells as to favour their glycogenic function, is of no importance in the present inquiry. If the pressure he exerted either ou the pancreas directly, or on its vessels, sufficient to seriously interfere with the circulation in tlie gland, and so diminish or suppress the secretions of this glycolzyme, glyco- lytic ferment, glycosuria will result. The vast majority, liowever, of large abdominal tumours are not complicated in this way. This may, I think, he explained by elasticity of the abdominal walls, allowing of expansion in })roportion to the growth of the tumour, so that the intra-aljdominal tension is not increased in any direction. Given, however, a large, ra])idly growing, solid, or semisolid tumour, and tliick, inelastic abdominal walls, such as ]\Irs. W. possessed, it is easy to see how not only the general pressure may he raised, hut, on account of the arrangement and strength of the recti muscles O O in front, the pressure antero-posteriorly may come to 1)C