102 CLINICAL PAPERS. ihage or sepsis has resulted. But in any well-selected group of cases such an untoward event is never to be loolced for. In the list of cases which is appended, all the patients iininediately recovered except one, who died from sepsis some days after the operation, due to my having failed to realise that the uterus was closely attached to the bladder, the whole tissue being soft and friable. The operation was thus, to a certain extent, incomplete. So, therefore, I may dismiss now any (piestion aliout vaginal hysterectomy, so far as my jiresent pa})er is concerned, except the (piestion of the remote results. I am at ](resent concerned with the (piestion, as to how far this operation prolongs the life of the patient; and, liefore touching upon the matter, another question readily suggests itself. I su})})ose no one will deny that a case, to be not only immediately but also to be remotely successful, must necessarilv lie attacked in its most early sta^e. Xow, a very early carcinoma of the cervix, still more an early tubular carcinoma of tlie body of the uterus, will, under ordinary circumstances, give an expectation of life for the patient, of eighteen mouths to three years. With sarcoma the expectation is distincth' longer. Therefore, in ascertaining tlie value of any operation whatever, tlie first (piestion to decide is. Whether or not that ojieration can prolong the patient’s expectation of life ? and, obviously, the second question is, AVliether it prolongs her expectation of life or not, does it relieve her symptoms, and give her an easier death than she would liave had if no operation had been undertaken ? These are the two questions which, in this pa]>er, I propose to discuss. During tlie jiast ten years, two hundred cases of cancer have presented themselves to me, either in the wards of the hospital or in my consulting-room, and with regard to these I have the following remarks to make:— 1. Tliey include not all the cases of cancer which 1 have seen, but only those wliicli have been admitted to my ward, {Conihuu'd onpayc 104.