OCCIPITO-POSTERIOR POSITIONS OF VERTEX. 199 “ face to puljes,” in one case only, and that, too, a innltipara, did there occur anything other than the most trifling lacera- tion of the soft parts. In this case the laceration, which was not at all severe, affected the back wall of vagina without affecting the perineal tissues. It soon liealed up, and gave no inconvenience. Both Schroder ^ and Macdonald refer to these lacerations, but give them no definite location in the pelvic cavity. They both further refer them to the use of the forceps. Let ns now proceed to examine the vaginal lesion, as met with in the cases recorded, as well as its causation :— 1. Its i^osition, on the right side of the pelvis, on a level w'ith and including the right ischial spine. On passing the finger into the opening the si)ine can readily be felt. 2. Its extent and direction.—In tlie recorded cases the sinus was from 1 to 3 in. in length, and its direction in three downwards and l^ackwards, and in one upwards. 3. Its causation.—The head descends slowly, slightly extended in the left oblicpie diameter, until it reaches the floor of the pelvis. Here the elastic, resilient posterior wall of the pelvis, aided by tlie forward and downward inclination of the ischium, attempt to throw the head forwards. If the pelvis be normal, and the head of average size, this is actually what takes place in the vast majority of occipito-posterior positions. • If, however, the ischial planes are nearly parallel, that is, if the normal slope is diminished, and if the ischial spines be prominent, as in the masculine or deep pelvis, then the advantage and cause of cavity rotation are lost. The liead descends in the oblique diameter, the usual forward rotation is attempted, but the head becomes jammed over the ischial spine. The head, somewhat extended, becomes fixed, and the pressure so caused results in a slough which involves the riglit ischial spine. This mechanism somewhat resembles that met with in a rickety pelvis. If rickety, mecliauisni ^ “Manual of Midwifery,” p. 305.