CLINICAL PAPERS. ii8 subsei^uent delivery with forceps, were successful both as regards inotlier aud child. There was very considerable rise of temperature and pulse, aud for some fourteeu days the patient was distinctly septic, and during that time careful antiseptic iutra-uterine douching was carried out. Three weeks afterwards. Dr. Sinclair examined her, and curiously enough he found the Tait knot })rojecting from the cervix. The records of fibrous ])olypi, or pediculated submucous fibroids coni})licating the puer])eriuni, are comparatively rare. In some cases parturition and the subsequent changes which go on during the puerperium have exercised a most satisfactory result on even large tumours. These cases, however, are comparatively seldom met with. Lohlein ^ relates a most important observation, where a large fibroid tumour which had been tliagnosed before pregnancy was diminished greatly during the puerperium; indeed, in a subsequent pregnancy, the uterus did not reach its usual size. Kauffman - mentions a case where he saw a huge fibroid disappear after abortion, and did not appear again in a subsequent pregnancy. The influence they exert on labour, and their management during the process, do not fall into the scope of this paper. I have at present to deal only with submucous fibrous polypi complicating the puerperium. So far as I can find, the records of such cases are comparatively scanty. Dr. Eamsay,^ Eroughty-Ferry, reported to the Edinbugh IMedico- Chirurgical Society in 1858, a case in which a submucous pediculated fibroid, weighing 2 lb., gave rise to hcTinorrhages in the third stage, and was expelled spontaneously, though gan- grenous, on tlie tenth day post-partum. The patient made an excellent recovery. Sedgewick ^ reports a case of gangrenous submucous myoma of the posterior wall of the uterus, the ^ Ztsclir.f. Oebiirtsh. u. Oyndk., Stuttgart, 1877, Bd. i. S. 1*21. ^ Monalschr. f. Gchurtsh. u, Qyniik., Berlin, 1862. ^ Edin. Med. Journ., July 1858. ■' Si. Thomas’s JIosjo. Jicp., London, 1870, vol. i. p. 3-19.