48 CLINICAL PAPERS. attached to the wall of the sac, and near to, hut not con- nected with, the placental mass, through which I first had cut, there were five or six little masses which felt like placental tissue. These, along with the main ])lacental mass, I removed. On sul)se(pient examination, they were shown to contain villi in vari<nis stages of degeneration. I was surprised to find no trace of either ftetus or cord, although very careful search was made for Ijoth. After some time, at the base of the sac, towards the poucli of Douglas, I dis- covered a small aperture, through which 1 gently puslied my finger, and then found a second sac, prol)ahly as large as a Jaffa orange. This sac contained Ijlood clot only, and no trace of a fcctiis could l)e discovered there either. Both sacs were then carefully washed out. I was very reluctant to close the operation without discovering the foetus, but of course there was no alternative left. The walls of tlie sac were then stitched to the al)dominal wall, and the cavity packed with iodoform gauze. The patient remained in a very collapsed condition for thirty hours, hut gradually recovered from tlie sliock. Two days afterwards tlie gauze was removed, and the cavity washed and drained in the usual way. Thereafter she made an excellent recovery. This was evidently a case where a tubal pregnancy had, without any severe symptoms, slowly ru])tured l)etween the layers of tlie liroad ligament. The })rimary sac was first opened, and the secondary sac was reached deep down in tlie ]>elvis. The ([uestion at once arises—In a pregnancy so far advanced, and with well-marked placental tissue, what became of the fictus ? Xow, in a somewhat similar case some years ago, I o])cned a, sac equally large, and removed nothing but blood clot. AVhether that was an extra-uterine pregnancy or not, in the light of recent develop- ments, I do not ])rofess to say. This I do know, that in that special case absolutely no trace of placental tissue could be found. It was otherwise, however, in the case before