CLINICAL PAPERS. 2. J^ecause retention of urine is more common in the early days of the piierperium. 3. The uterus Ijecomes less mobile as the ])uerperium advances. It is matter of clinical observation, that in manv cases the puerjteral uterus rotates round its central axis, so that, in fact, the transverse axis of the uterus no longer corresponds to the transverse diameter of the pelvis. One side of the uterus is thrown forwards, with the result that tlie transverse axis of the uterus corresponds to the obli(jue diameter of the ]>elvis. Tliis occurs a]>art from any rejtletion of the bladder, and is recognised during ])regnancy wlien the anterior surface of the uterus looks to tlie right, so tliat tlie transverse axis of the fundus is the rigid obli(j[ue diameter of the })elvis. Out of sixty-four cases mded by Bbrner, in fifty rotation was totally absent—both sides of the uterus being on the same })lane, the transverse axis of tlie uterus corresponding to the transverse axis of the pelvis. In twelve there was ilistinct rotation to the right side, and in two rotation to the left. This rotation of the uterus is specially well marked in cases where tlie liladder is distended, and it occurs with distension of the bladder in cases where it is absent, where the viscus is empty. If the rotation, apart from the tilling viscus, be to the right, then when it is full it is more marked in that direction, and vice vcrsd. It is worthy of note that the filling of the bladder never causes rotation in an 0])])0site direction, rfannkuch remarks that “ sometimes when the bladder is very full one can observe a rotation of the uterus, in the sense that the lateral edge is turned round towards the front.” In the cases I have recorded, this rotation has lieen distinctlv remarked, to the extent that out of fortv cases •j fc which have been noted, in ten, apart altogether from bladder relations, the rotation to the right was marked ; and in those cases where the bladder was full, the rotation has been noted twice.