135 cm Z O us ASCITES. arrived at. For some time, with careful dieting, the patieiit’.s general condition distinctly improveil, l)ut occasionally for a day or two she had a relap.se, showing itself in sickness, nau.sea, and vomiting. However, on the whole, after l)eing three weeks in liospital, she was distinctly Ijetter, although tlie distension of the abdomen was greater, and caused her much more inconvenience. On November 2, tlie abilominal cavity was as})irated, and 380 o/. of fluid were removed. Tlie fluid presented a remark- able ajipearance. At first sight it was exactly like pus, hut when })laced in a specimen glass seemed much more moliile. It had a pale yellow colour with a suggestion of opalescence, and at first was ([uite homogeneous, sliowing no deposit, but after standing for about twenty-four liours a slight creamy layer was found on the surface. It laid a sweetish, milky odour. Dr. Milroy kindly examined the fluid for me, and reported as follows :—“ The fluid which was sent to me con- sisted partly of finely emulsified fat, but more largely of a granular debris consisting mainly of fat. About 2 ]ier cent, of fat was present. The pigment present was lutein.” The granular dcT)ris was found, on microscopical examina- tion, to consist of basophile leucocytes in a state of fatty degeneration. After withdrawal of this fluid, examination of the abdomen revealed a movable tumour in the region of the gall bladder, and an indefinite irregular solid mass was detected in the region of the greater curvature of the stomacli. The aspira- tion of the abdomen relieved the i)atient of her symptoms for some time, but she still suffered from occasional vomitiny; and inability to take solid food. The vomited matter was examined fre([uently, but contained no blood. From November IG, that is, about a fortnight after the ta])j)ing, reniarkalde and specially pronounced emaciation set in, while the ahdo- minal cavity became more and more distended with fluid. Die discomfort induced liy rapid accumulation was so great,