EARLY EXTRA-UTERIEE GESTATION. 41 Case 3.—On Xoveiiiber 25, 1890, 1 was asked to see ]\r. Ik, who gave me tlie following history :—On November 20, 1889, she was confined of a second child easily, and made a gO(xl recovery. INlenstrnation returned ahont tlie third niontl). On Angmst 21, 1890, she had a miscarriage, a])])areiitly ahont eight weeks. On September 22 following, her menstrual })eriod occurred, apparently normal. Tliere was no menstrual discharge in October. On November 1 tliere was a qnasi- nienstrnal discharge, which was thonglit to he menstrnation, hnt it disappeared in a few hours. There was frequent re- cnrrence of this discliarge tlironghont the month of Novenilier, coming on in the morning and disappearing in the afternoon. On November 20 I saw the case. There was a distinct swelling on tlie right side of the ntern.s. On the 28th an entire decidnal cast of tlie nterns came away ; slight pains wei'e complained of. The decidua was examined ^’ery care- fnlly, said to he complete, and considered of six weeks foi'ina- tion. No ovum, however, was found. On November 29 the patient was seized, ahont 0 r.M., with violent pains in the region of the stomach and right iliac fossa. These lasted ahont half an hour in a very severe form ; then they aliated. I saw her shortly after this, and found the swelling larger and more tender. On Decemlier 1 the severe pains in the stomach and iliac I’egion returned, llelief was obtained by a large opiate. Coloured discharge continued to come at intervals. t)n 1 fecemlier 12 I saw the patient after she had severe pain ; there was a distinct swelling behind the nterns, continuous with a swelling on the right side. There was pain and dis- comfort in })assing water. The question which all along had been present to my mind was that of extra-nterine pregnancy. From the fact of the entire escape of the decidua, which, so far as my reading goes, is exceptional in cases of ectopic gestation, I was disposed to think that the ovum had escaped, and that the pregnancy was intra-uteriiie, and that the swell-