CAUSATION OF PRIMITIVE FACE CASES. 189 the lower uterine segment is deep in the pelvis, and tlie head more or less ahected by the hard pelvis, in all probalnlity the uterine contractions preceding actual labour would have influenced the head; but this patient was a multipara. The right uteriue obliquity, by causing the back and occiput to gravitate to the riglit and posteriorly, had some influence in causing the right occipito-posterior position, but it is difflcult to see how any ordinary amount of obliquity would cause a full face to present at the brim, irrespective of labour, and while the head remained free of the pelvis. I do not here call in question the effect of obliipiity in producing a face case, after labour has actually set in, but I fail to see how it is applicable in the present case. It is needless to discuss the effects of the liquor ainnii, because neither hydramnios nor premature rupture of the memljraues were factors in the case, as neither condition existed. For the same reason such causes as premature labour, death of foetus, and the like, are inapplicable; and, indeed, Sir James Simpson and Dr. Fleetwood Churchill do not specially particularise them as applicable to primitive face cases, though they no doubt include such cases. Undoubtedly, wlien such conditions are present, the production of the presentation in question is more readily understood. The explanation of this case, at least, is to be found in the foetus itself. Both Sir Janies Simpson and Dr. Hodge refer in general terms to the movements of the foetus, Simpson speaking of the application of unusual excito-niotory stimuli, and Hodge of the spontaneous movements of the foetus. In this case the foetus was a well-developed female. There was no marked caput succedaneum. The measurements of the head were sufficiently near the average to require no particular notice. There was no enlargement of the thyroid gland, spina bifida, nor any sore or mark of any kind on the child. Tlie striking point about the child was tlie extreme extension of the head. The muscles of the back of the neck were