117 FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. called l)y a midwife to a womau, a multipara, who had been in labour for ten hours, aud who had made no progress, and was in addition bleeding profusely. Dr. Sinclair found the patient in violent labour, and on examination found a large mass, firm and liard, blocking up the vagina, there being only a space of about half an inch between the tumour and the vaccinal wall, througli whicli the fingers could be passed with difficulty. Togetlier we examined the patient. The head could not be reached per vaginam, out could be palpated througb the abdomen, apparently of ordinary dimensions. Under deep aiuesthesia it was ])ossible to get the fingers beyond the tumour aud feel a tliick hard pedicle, and round it the rim of tlie cervix. The head was not lying on the tumour, but evidently pressing hard on the neck of the pedicle. It was just possible to toucli the head. Obviously, removal of the obstructing mass was the only course to be pursued. We endeavoured to get the ecraseur round the base as far as possible. In this we only partially succeeded, for the tumour was so tense and so completely filled the vagina that we had to be content to grasp the greater portion, and, as was to be expected after cutting so large a surface, the hemorrhage was very profuse. To stop the bleeding we put on forceps and pulled down the liead. After delivery the hemorrhage continued severe. We found the pedicle, which was long and tliick, attached within the cervix. There was nothing for it but to grasp the bleeding stump with forceps, and to pass a needle through it and throw a double knot over it. This entirely stopped the hamiorrhage. The tumour was, of course, much larger in the vagina than after its removal, and was of the nature of a fibrous polypus of unusually large size. Both mother and child did well. This is the only time I have met with a similar dystocia during labour. I have had twice to deal with ovarian cys- tomata as an obstruction. In both cases aspiratory needle, and