8i COMPLICATED DOUBLE 0 FA E10 TO MV. put on, and on the 28th, three weeks from tlie date of operation, the patient was up and looking perfectly well. The microscopical examination of the tumour showed that it was a simple cystic papilloma. This case seems to me to present many interesting features, hut probably its chief importance lies in, first of all, the <litticulty of diagnosis when the patient was first seen. The patient was admitted presenting every possible sign of abdominal cancer, except her age, which of course is not of itself preventive, and it was only after she had lain in the ward and had been treated by palliative measures that the abdomen was opened. It must be extremely rare indeed to remove stained fluid from the pleura which is not associated with malignant disease. As far as I am personally concerned, [ have not seen a case before. This is quite in keeping with one’s previous experience, and suQ-gests that in all cases wliere there is room for the least element of doubt, an exploratory incision should be made. And yet how very much oftener, on so opening the abdomen, is one met with disappointment and with the fact that the condition is hopeless. The case also raises the question of the removal of the other ovary at the time of the first operation. In this particular case I have no regrets, for on the first occasion the other ovary was most carefully examined and seemed perfectly healthy, and therefore, especi- ally as the patient was only let. 10, it was left intact. Indeed, even though there had been evidence of com- mencing cystic disease, I think I should have been tempted, if not to leave it entirely alone, at most to remove, if possible, only the ]3art of the organ affected. I admit it is a difficult matter to tell whether an ovary is really diseased or not, because the i)erfectly functioning organs present such differences of appearance; but in this case, at all events, the ovary seemed to be perfectly Iiealthy, and therefore was left. 6