PELVI-ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 155 Undoubtedly the first factor is the hereditary one ; the second possibility is sepsis; and from these two, which are probably the main causes of post-operative insanity, one can look to a large group occurring, under loss of blood, defective action of the kidneys, and so fortli. Again, one must remember that in removing tlie ovaries for disease (or from otlier cause), one induces the climacteric, and of course, in so doing, one places tlie woman in all the possible risks of climacteric trouble. It seems probable that the essential prerequisite for the development of post-operative insanity must be, in all cases, a neurotic organisation, jiredis- posed, from either hereditary taint or acquired nervous weak- ness (and instability), to take on diseased (or perverted) action, in consequence of any active disturbing influence. Naturally, all are unwilling to admit that sepsis is the cause of death in operations, for now we know that a septic death means careless surgery, and therefore some are apt to attribute deaths and misfortunes to other causes than the real one. For example, death is said to be due to shock, defective kidney action, ha?niorrhage, exhaustion from suffering, tlie depressing effect of amesthetics, vomiting—to anything rather than to actual sepsis. Still, in the cases here referred to, with the exception of the hysterectomy, the possibilities of sepsis were out of the question altogether, at least of any sepsis that showed itself by any other way than by the insanity. Alienists tell us that there does not exist a psychosis which may be called post-operative insanity. With the exception of certain operations on the head, thyroidectomy, etc., there are no operative procedures wliich can be said to be solely productive of mental troubles, and tbe main role in the production of post-operative disturbances is played by a pre- disposition acquired or hereditary. I think the remarkable thing, however, is that it has not been shown that insanity is more common after operations on the genital organs than after operations on any other organs.