179 ETIOLOGY OF VAGINAL HyEMATOMA. I saw with him a patieut whom lie had delivered two or three days previously with forceps. She was a multipara with her fifth child. Dr. Sinclair had useil forceps l3ecause the head was delayed high up, owing to some degree of anteversion of the uterus. The patient had borne her previous children normally. Dr. Sinclair told me that, wlien applying his for- ceps, he felt a swelling in the posterior fornix, and on that account experienced some ditficidty in applying the instru- ment. The swelling on the third day was so large as to fill up the whole vagina, and so closed the canal as to make it impossible to reach the cervix. The perineum was bulging, and at the junction of the perineal skin with the vaginal mucous membrane there was a rupture which had occurred the previous day, when Dr. Sinclair was examining the tumour. The aperture was sufiiciently large to admit two fingers, and in doincT so the finger came in contact with a meshwork of cellular tissue and clots. The nature of the tumour was clearly that of a htematoma. I need not stop to describe its further course, beyond saying that the cavity was washed out daily with an antiseptic lotion, the patient had no bad symptoms, and in a few weeks was quite well. The rarity of such cases may be gathered from the follow- ing statistics, namely, Hugenberger, St. Petersburg Hospital, met eleven in 14,000 labours; Deneux saw three in forty years ; Paul Dubois, one in 14,000 labours. In Yienna Hospital eighteen occurred in 33,241 deliveries. The records show that these extravasations are associated with very considerable danger. Deneux, out of his sixty collected cases, had a mortality of eleven. Probably it is owing to this fact, Deneux being the earliest writer on the subject, that the opinion has gained firm ground that this condition is an extremely dangerous one. Now, this is scarcely the fact, for out of fifty cases collected by Winckel, death occurred only six times ; and the three cases which I have just mentioned all