CLINICAL PAPERS. io8 I need not multiply examples, because in all the other cases the history l.»efore and after tlie operation is somewhat similar. Ihit perha])S I may l»e alhnved to show tlie converse. A lady came under my observation witli what I supposeil to he senile uterine catarrh. 1 d<j not usually dilate and scrape in this condition, Imt as the os uteri_ was somewhat gaping, and the lucmorrliage rather i»rofuse, I further dilated tlie cervix, and curetted and packed the cavity. The rej)ort on the scra])ing was “well-marked carcinoma.” I announced this to the i)atient’s friends; and for various reasons, personal, domestic, and otlierwise, any furtlier operative interference was declined, i’ersonally 1 was not soiTy for this, Itecause the uterus was somewhat fixed and the fornices small, and the o])eration would not have been a very easy one. That was in 1894; to-day, Xovemlier 1808, tliough seriously ill, she is still alive, and only recently has she sullered much at all. During these years she has at intervals enjoyed many consecutive weeks of excellent health. Her position in life allowed her to have every luxury, which may possibly have had something to do with the jn'olongation of her life; Imt nevertheless the fact remains, that four years ago she had fundal cancer, verified by the microscope, and she is alive still. IMy further comment on this case is, that that dumtion of four and a half years is probaldy an under-estimate of the time, because it was a certaintv that the cancer had originated a considerable time before 1 first saw her. I must admit that this is a longer duration tha.n is commonlv met with, but a three years’ duration is by no means uncommon in my experience. In the present paper I am not dealing with anylxxly’s results but my own, nor am T venturing to criticise any other o])erator’s work. 1 am only stating my own experience of vaginal hysterectomy for cancer. This has been an un- fortunate one; but it seems to me the duty of every operator, whatever his ability or experience may be, to record his