94 CLINICAL PAPERS. cancer begins generally or locally, llie great pathological warfare of twenty years ago, between l^aget and Iliitcliinson, remains still unsettled, but I believe the consensus of opinion is in favour of the view that it is primarily a local disease which, later, attacks surrounding and distant parts, and infects the system generally. If this be so, of course the argument for removing the uterus, when it is the centre of the infection, remains as strong as possible. And naturally, if the gymn- cological surgeons were able to see the cancerous uterus at its initial stage, and remove it, no douljt good results ought to be anticipated. But such is, unfortunately, not the case. After an experience now of twenty years, including twelve years as physician in the lloyal Infirmary, I have tabulated every case that has come under my special supervision. It is twelve years ago since I did my first vaginal hysterectomy for cancer. That operation lasted two hours and a half, and, as a proof of the advance in technique, and of the ease with which the operation can now I)e performed, the last 1 did was performed in eighteen minutes. I have diligently observed every case of malignant disease of the uterus that has come under my observation, with a view to the performance of that operation, and only fourteen have fulfilled all the conditions requisite to justify hysterectomy with expectation of success. I have carefully operated upon all of these cases. All the operations have been undertaken with the assistance and approval of my colleagues, and here and now 1 wish to say, speaking the absolute truth, that these fourteen patients on whom hysterectomy was performed—although they all, save one, to use the ordinary hackneyed phrase, made absolutely uneventful recoveries—died, every one of them, within the year, and, in my opinion, with greater suffering than if they had been left alone. Now this applies, unfortunately, to several cases in which the disease was absolutely confined to the fundus, and where, so far as 1 could find, there was no involvement of the broad