CLINICAL PAPERS. i88 October 15 and 16.—Face as before. October 16, 10 p.m.—Still a face. October 17, 2 a.m.—Strong uterine contraction set in. On examination, the face was found presenting; after a short interval the position was altered to a right occipito-posterior. At 3 A.M. the posterior fontanelle came within easy range of the examining finger. The head threatened to re- main persistent right occipito-posterior, but when well down on the floor of the pelvis the forward rotation of the head took ^)lace. Tliere was a very moderate (quantity of liquor aninii. Duration of labour.—First stage, six hours ; second stage, one hour, hfty-seven minutes; third stage, thirteen minutes. Now, this was without doubt a primitive face case, and the question conies to lie. How is a presentation such as this of the full face at the brim during pregnancy to be accounted for ? I confess that I can hardly conceive of any presentation more difficult to explain. The natural attitude of the child, it is important to remark, is essentially one of flexion—every limb, every finger, the trunk in fact, every movable member, is flexed. In a primitive face case such as the one we are now considering, we have the normal flexion replaced by ex- tension to an extreme degree. Further, we have to consider the fact that the foetus was alive, moving freely in a fluid medium, uninfluenced either by labour or contact with the pelvis. The uterine contractions which go on through the later weeks of pregnancy, and which Schroder, Hodge, Playfair, and others allege are the cause of this class of face, does not account for this particular case. For, as I have shown in the alwve record, the effect of the first real uterine contraction was to con- vert the already existing face into a right occipito-posterior. Further, I showed, when making an examination some days before labour, and when the uterus could be felt hardeniiiir under the hand, the position remained unaltered. If the l)atient had Iteen, as Schroder suggests, a primipara, in whom