i82 CLINICAL PAPERS. frecjiiently, by five times, in j)rimipai‘cTe than multiparie, and tliat they become proportionately rarer according to the nnmber of the pregnancy. Now, in this record I’erret mixed up all the varieties. One can easily understand how, under the enormous distending pressure on the cervix and vagina, caused by the advancing head, the mucous membrane, carried down by the liead, glides (jver the deeper tissues with a sort of tearing movement. The connecting submucous vessels are torn, blood is extra- vasated, and small ecchymoses or thrombi are formed. This will, to a greater or less extent, occur in every labour. But we must not be diverted from the point at issue. The cases I have recorded were all multi])ane, and luemorrliage took place while the head was still at tlie brim, and wliile no pressure was being made in the vagina. The mechanism of the pro- duction seems to me to be this.—The thin varicose veins on the posterior vaginal wall all undergo stretching along with that structure, by the uterine efforts; but, in tlie cases referred to, the tension is enormously increased by tlie ante verted position of the uterus; and, further, this tension is long maintained by the ineffectual attempts of the uterus to right itself. What occurs is this—During the labour one or more of the.se vessels give way under the strain, and rupture, but, owing to the tension, no lunmorrhage takes place. When, however, the case is recognised, and the uterine obliquity overcome, either by position or pressure, or lioth, the undue tension of the posterior vagina relaxed, the compression of the vessels removed, the luemorrliage slowly and gradually takes place into the con- nective tissue. In this way it comes about that the rupture of the vessels takes place during the labour, but that the luemorrliage actually occurs only after the displacement of the gravid uterus has been rectified. Into the prognosis, course, synqitoms, and risks of these varieties of tumours it would be altogether absurd in me to enter; they are well described in every text-book. i\Iy object is sinqily to draw attention to a