128 CLINICAL PAPERS. tlie organ a set in that direction, and Pfannknch has shown that, even in cases where tlie iiterns had the rigid lateral deviation well marked during pregnancy, a few hours lying on the left side is siiflicient to change the wliole relation of parts. Tliis is a fact of which tliere is abundant clinical evidence. I have frequently, in noting the position of the uterus post- ])artuni, fallen into tlie error of recording the lie as lateral- tins being due to the jiatient lying on one or other side immediately before, for 1 have observed that the organ does not resume its central iiosition until the patient has assumed the dorsal decubitus for some time. Now, a very inconsider- able lateral inclination of the pelvis is sutticient to cause this. It is therefore absolutely essential, in settling the question of the most common lie of the uterus, to ensure that the pelvis be horizontally jilaced on the lied. This lateral displacement of the uterus liy the accidents of jtosition is of importance, when we come to look at the inliuence of the distended bladder on the post-partum uterus, which is almost uniforndy to cause a lateral deviation of the organ. A central uterus becomes laterally displaced, and one which is originally laterally displaced becomes more so. This condition is almost nniforni. It is very rare to find tlie uterus central witli a full bladder. The displacement is to a certain point in propor- tion to the repletion of the bladder; but a comparatively small ({uantity of urine is sufficient to throw the uterus from the mesial line. Now, this deviation may either be right or left. Kehrer made an experiment on a cadaver by artificially filling the bladder, and found a lateral inclination of the ])uerperal uterus with the fundus to the right. Clinically observed, the riglit deviation is the more fre- <pient. Tliis, however, althougli it has tlie support of the majority of observers, and although it is the deviation which is most easily ex])lained, does not seem to be so frequent as alleged ; for, during my last term of office at tlie IMaternity