CHYLOUS ASCITES. 137 number of small cancer nodules surrounding the lacteals, close to the mesenteric attachment. Tlie lacteals were very exten- sively occluded. The tlioracic duct and the receptaculum chyli were carefully dissected out and were found healtliy. There was, however, a mass of infiltrated glands lying close lieside and pressing on the receptaculum.” llEMAitKS.—Tlie cause of chylous extravasation is eitlier an ol)struction to the How of chyle, or to distinct rupture of tlie thoracic duct, or of tlie receptaculum chyli. A few cases of rupture have been recorded, as for examjde by Quincke, in which chylous hydrothorax resulted, and Wilhelm reports a case in which the accident occurred during an attack of whooping-cough. Wliitla has also recorded a case of rupture. Itokitansky recorded a case of peritoneal and pleural effusion, in which the fluid was chylous in nature. It was associated with mitral regurgitation and cardiac dilatation. In my case the chylous effusion seemed to be due to an obstruction to tbe How of chyle at the junction of the intes- tinal mesenteric lacteals. The thoracic duct itself was normal, and the pressure of the cancerous glands around the rece])taculum was proliably not sufficient to occlude it. Thus, in some cases, the lesion was in the thoracic duct itself, whereas in others it has been due to congestion of the larger lym])hatic capillaries, or of the smaller lacteals within the mesentery itself. In most of the cases the termination has been fatal, due partly to the original disease, and partly to the consecpient starvation. Some authorities have endeavoured to differentiate between a, true chylous ascites and an ascites adiposus, or chyliformis. iMicrosopically the fluids are similar in appearance, but on chemical and microsco[)ic examination the differences are detected. Senator adopts Quincke’s classification, and dis- tinguishes the two as follows :— In chylous ascites, the microscope reveals veiy finely granular fat cells, and an absence of large fat globules.