LESSER GYN-yECOLOGICAL MANIPULATIONS. 169 play a very important part in gymecology. Its diagnostic use, however, is now of less importance than formerly. Before the perfection of the combined method of examination, the employment of the sound was not only useful ])ut indispens- able, and from it most of tlie important advances in minor gyniecology have Ijeen made. Those of us who now mainly rely on the combined method of examination are indebted to the sound for valuable aid and much instruction, l)ut, to my mind, its use must now he more limited than the text-books would lead us to believe. In most cases it is unnecessary, and in a large number of cases it is dangerous; unnecessary, l)ecause the careful training wliich every one now undergoes in the conjoined exaniinaticm of the uterus renders the mechanical use of the sound a work of supererogation, for equally accurate results can be obtained wdthout it; and dangerous, for the varieties of manual examination—vaginal, rectal, abdominal—which are now so carefully taught and practised, if carried out gently, carefully, and patiently, give much more accurate results than the sound, and without any risks whatever. I am perfectly free to admit that I have seen rough Ijimanual examination accompanied l3y the most disastrous results, and become the origin of pelvic mischief; but what I say is this, that however carefully the sound is used, there is always an element of danger in it, whereas a carefully conducted manual examination means no risk at all, and, as a rule, entirely satisfactory results. The routine examination l)y the sound should l.)e deprecated, I Ijelieve, l^y teachers and not employed by practitioners. And if accidents with the use of the sound are occasional in the hands of the experienced gyntecologists, what, may I ask, are the number of casualties to ]>e credited to its regular use in the hands of the tyro ? Its occasional use, no one will deny, is of the greatest value, as in fibroids, and in fixing the lie of the uterus with regard to tumours, and so forth. In gyn[ecol(3gy, as in everything else, older methods must