29 A GROUP OF ABDOMINAL SECTIONS. The extreme coutractiou of the gall bladder was interest- ing, and it is entirely due to the information gained from Mr. John Duncan tliat I was able to recognise the gall bladder in its small and attenuated state, he liaving described a similar condition. When the gall bladder is large, and forms a distinct cystic tumour, it is sometimes apt to be mistaken for a kidney ; but when the distension is moderate, the diagnosis of the condition is simple, and the operation comparatively easy. This extreme contraction of the gall bladder rendered it very difficult to bring it to the surface, and still more difficult to stitch it to the walls. Iviister’s method seems to me in sucii cases more satis- factory and much easier, namely, to extract the calculi and close the internal wound. This operation has been performed repeatedly and witli satisfactory results, notably by Kiister,^ Zielcwicz,“ and Stewart.^ Another, easier still, would be the operation of cholecystectomy; but then it has not yet been shown that the gall bladder is superfluous, though two cases have been recorded where the operation was immediately successful, though what w’as the ultimate effect I am unable to say. Though the issue of my case was unfortunate, yet the general result in gall bladder surgery is entirely satisfactory. Dor instance, Mayo Robson had fourteen cases, all of which recovered, not to mention Tait’s brilliant results in this form of interference. Kocher, Sanger, Thornton, and many others, all record lists with a single death. Of course there will always be two great sources of danger both in cholecystotomy and cholecystectomy, namely, bleeding and peritonitis, for one can never Ije sure that the stitches in the gall bladder will hold, for the walls themselves are diseased. Tliese operations are not by any means easy when the bladder is small, as my own case indicates; but statistics ^ Arch. f. Jdin. Chir., Berlin, 1887, Bd. x.xxvi. ^ Ccntralhl. f. Chir., Leipzig, May 31, 1888. “ N. Y. Med. Joiirn., May 25, 1889.