•3S CLINICAL PAPERS. 111 adipose ascites, cliemical exaiiiiiiation shows the pre- sence of sugar ; it shows similar hut much larger fat cells, lyui])h cells, ami iu some cases cancer cells. This variety occurs cliieHy in tuberculous or malignant l>eritonitis, and is a result of a fatty degeneration of the serous endotlielium, and of lymph and j)us cells. Althougli tliis view is very generally accepted, a few authorities maintain that the diherence cannot l)e held as absolute, for they assert that, since sugar is absorbed chieliy into tlie portal circulation direct, and only a minute quantity, if any, by the lacteals, the presence or absence of sugar cannot be considered of any importance in diflerentiating between the two conditions. Further, they seem disinclined to believe that fatty degeneration of endothelial, tuberculous or cancerous cells could occur to sucli an extent as to give ascitic Huid such definite characteristics. In a recent ]>aper read at tlie Socictc iMedicale des lldpitaux, Fernand Widal and Prosper Merklin discussed lactescent ascites of lymphatic origin. They pointed out tliat many authorities regarded milky fluid in the abdominal cavity as chylous iu nature. Others, liowever, consider that the fat might l>e due to fattv degeneration of extravasated cells. Lion first sliowed that milky ascitic fluid might be other than chyle. In a case of cancer of tlie ovary, he found that the li([uid contained a substance analogous to casein, but no fat. Aschard and A}>ert respectively published cases in wliich the Iluid, when examined under tlie microscope, sliowed no fatty globules, 1)ut innumerable minute refractile granules. Widal and IMerklin hold that the distinction between chylous and nou-chylous ascites jiresents great difficulties; and, further, that in the chylous variety the (luautity varies very much in different cases and even at different times in the same case. 'I'liey also ])oint out that the kind of leucocytes found in the etfnsion show that chylous ascites may be lymphatic in origin, and they record an illustrative case. i\Iicroscopic exaniina-