FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. 119 gangrene liaving been caused by the injection of liquor ferri perchloridi, on account of post-partuni lueniorrbage immedi- ately after the birth. Susserott,^ in liis inaugural dissertation, refers to cases published by IMaunoury and Ashwell, in which similar gangrenous tumours were s})ontaneously expelled during the puerperiuni. Tliere are recorded other cases by Fallin, Tarnier,- Oldham, Triestley, and 'Shaltorta, in wliicli the tumour was expelled l)y simple uterine contraction without being either gangrenous or decomposed, with an entirely favourable result to the mother. The majority, it would appear, of these sul)iiiucous fibroids do not l)ecome gangrenous ; when they do so, it is obviously from their coming in contact witli the external air, or from direct injury during labour, or the application of some irritant, as in Sedgewick’s case. A form of gangrene or necrosis may occur in subserous tumours, or interstitial tumours after labour, but this must Ije carefully differentiated from that occurring in the submucous variety. < fusserow finds that when purulent degeneration and gangrene take place in the submucous variety, it is the result of clianges in the circulation due to uterine contraction. Often the subserous tumours become larger and softer after labour, and give undoubted appearances of fluctuation. This apparent enlargement is due in many cases to the involution of the uterus, the tumour appearing larger in proportion tlum before. In other cases they really do get larger and softer, owing to serous infiltration from the disturbance of the circulatiou. Martin ^ and Horwitz ^ both mention cases of submucous fibroid in the puerperiuni wliich became gangrenous, and gave rise, through septicaaiiia, to a fatal result. Kucheumeister ^ had a case in whicli a tumour weiu’hiuo; about a pound was expelled on tlie forty-fourth day, post- partum, after having given rise to high fever from suppuration. ' “ Inatig. Diss.,” Rostock, 1870. " “ Die Neukildiiiigeii des Uterus.” ^ Ztschr. f. Gchurtsh. v.. Gyniik., Stuttgart, 1870, Rd. i. S. 232. * St. Petersb. mcd. Ztschr., Ifd. xiv. S. 294. ® Gusserow, loc. cit.