136 CLINICAL PAPERS. that although tlie patient ^vas evidently sinking ra])idly, she was tapped again, when about .‘350 oz. were removed. The Huid })resented exactly the same characters as before. The ])atient, however, did not seem to ini])rove in the least, but maduallv not worse, and died five (lavs later, on November 26. A jtost-mortem examination was made by Dr. Welsh, of winch the re})ort was as follows:— “The hodv showed marked emaciation, and the skin was jaundiced. “ Thorax.— I’ericardium and heart were practically healthy, hnt the heart was small and showed some lirown atro^diy. Each ])leural sac contained al)out 6 oz. of hile-stained fluid, d'he suhjdeural lymphatics were studded with minute cancerous nodules; these were not found in the substance of the lung, 'riiere were signs of chronic hronchitis and emphysema. “ Abdomen.—A few ounces of turbid, Itile-stained Huid were removed from the abdominal cavity. 'I'he small intestine showed some commencing peritonitis. The mesenteric glands were generally enlarged from malignant infiltration. The stomach was much shrunken, and 6lied with deeply bile- stained mucus. A large cancerous neojdasni was growing from the inner surface of the anterior wall, extending from 1 in. from the ])ylorus, for 4 in. along the lesser curvature. In appearance the tumour was a soft^ fungating mass, raised about 1 in. above the surface of the healthy mucous meml)raue, and presented some ulceration in the centre. The tumour consisted lar<>’elv of soft Gelatinous tissue, but was evidentlv malignant in nature, and had undergone extensive colloid degeneration, ddie gall bladder was distended with bile, and the glands and tissues along the larger bile ducts and in the porta (4‘ the liver were extensivelv infiltrated with cancer. 'Die liver itself contained one small cancer nodule. The sjdeen was healthy, but the kidneys were somewhat cirrhotic and fatty. The small intestine was throughout its whole length greatly thickened and contracted. It showed an immense