CLINICAL PAPERS. i68 Jiagiiosed with absolute accuracy witliout the use of any speculum whatever. So far as my personal experience is concerned, I find that the speculum is used as a matter of routine, very often with a view to cover the inexperience of the practitioner. The speculum, 1 venture to believe, diagnos- tically, is a much over-rated appliance. In its place, careful bimanual examination ought to be steadily taught and per- sistently enforced. The speculum, used for diagnostic work only, gives l.)ut a superficial knowledge of the parts, and in many cases ol)Scures the organs wliich require to be most carefully observed, and endless cases are mismanaged through reliance Ijeing placed on the speculum and nothing else. It would he l,)etter were it discarded altogether from the teach- ing of practical gynaecology, and the student taught to avoid it and relv on his fincrers alone. Tlie information o;ained from it is only slight and practically useless. All really reliable information must he got from a careful digital ex- amination of the cervix, the appendages, and the foruices. A mere speculum examination is worthless, and cannot be too strongly condemned, and to act upon it with regard to opera- tion would be altogether wrong. Witli all due deference, I venture to say that the speculum is used for diagnostic purposes by imperfectly trained men, who press it into an importance which it does not by any means deserve. Visual examination of a patient is always to he avoided, if possible, and the exaggeration of a mere local manifestation into a serious disease is a matter which deserves the reproljation of the profession. Of course 1 wish it to he distinctly understood that I refer here and now entirely to tlie use of the s[»eculuni for diagnostic ])urposes. Its value in all forms of operations, of course, is well recognised. The uterine sound, which owes its l)irth and development to the school to which we belong, is an instrument which, both diagnostically and therapeutically, has ])layed and does