CLINICAL PAPERS. 15° The following is another case of mental trouble consecjiient upon a minor gynaecological operation :— Case 3.—The patient in this instance, a young lady, iet. 25, was brought to me reduced to a state of extreme ana'inia, suttering from constant and profuse uterine haemorrhage, dependent upon the presence of a uterine polypus. This is not the place to discuss the nature of the operation necessary, l)ut it will be allowed that tlie removal of a tumour such as this, about the size of a hen’s egg, involves no very great shock to tlie system. Such operations are performed every day, and are, so far as either immediate or remote results are concerned, entirely satisfactory. Of course the haemorrhage ceases at once, and the only possible risk is septic absorption, and this can be easily prevented. This hidy made an extremely good recovery, and left the Home perfectly well. Tliere has been no return of the lueniorrhage since. Unfortunately, two months after the operation, slie harboured the delusion that she had been delivered of a child, and that she haul become, as a result, an outcast, and she is now the inmaite of an asvlum. This is a result which no one can discount, and cases such as this, where the patient was reduced to a state of profound anaemia, and where tlie physical cure was an absoluteh’ com- plete one, aire, it must be admitted, a disappointment. So far as one could discover, this girl had no family history of in- sainity whatever, either in her immediaite family or among her relatives, and this is tlie point one would emphasise. It may be readily understood how the extraction of a tooth or the administraition of chloroform would upset the nervous system of a person pronouncedly so predisposed, but this is a case where there was no tendency to insanity in the family what- ever. I repeat, that this fact seems to be a very serious addition to one’s views as to tlie prognosis of any case. As has just been said, all are prepared to discount accidents in insane families, but one has no right to discount—one is not expected to discount—such accidents as these in women