97 VA GINAL H ] 'STERE CTOiM ] interfering with health. The conditions to wliich 1 Jiave just referred do neither. Further, if we take and carefully look over these statistics, « we shall hud that they are, to say the least of them, some- what ambiguous. And we shall further hud that, even though a woman lives two years after the operation, and has no return, it is doubtful whether she lives longer and dies happier than if the uterus were left in situ. The whole point of the matter is this, that it is quite conceivable that, with a cancer very early diagnosed and operated upon, the prolongation of life is possible, although, unfortunately, such has not been my experience; but, after a cancer has developed beyond its most initial stage, I hold and believe that the removal of the organ does not prolong life, and that the subsequent death is infinitely more terri1)le. Now, if the disease be local in its origin and only affects the system secondarily, one naturally asks why the alleged results are so satisfactory in the mamma, and apparently so unsatisfactory in the uterus. The answer seems plain. It is the old question of early recognition. And the possibilities of early recognition in the mamma and in the uterus are totally different. Every woman recognises a small swelling in her breast at once, and seeks for immediate advice; whereas a woman may have uterine discharges, leucorrhoeal and luemorrhagic, and pain and discomfort for months, without taking any notice of it whatever. If it were possible to recognise early cancer in the uterus as well as in the mamma, of course it is possible, as I have just said, tliat the results would be somewhat better. Furthermore, we must remember that whereas in the breast the lympliatic connections and glands can be dealt with, and are regularly dealt with, whether they appear to be affected or not, it is otherwise in the pelvis. And perhaps Howard Kelly, acting on Freund’s suggestion, may be in the right lines in giving up vaginal hysterectomy for cancer, and deahug with the whole uterus and broad liga- 7