CLIXICAL PAPERS. '4 loii<>-ed daiiciiiu-, when slie fainted, siilfered for some time after- wards from al^dominal ])ain, and it was tlien tlie tninonr was discovered, t have no doid)t whatever tliat the tumour was freed from the pelvis l>y tlie i)atient’s active exercise in dancing, and that, on esca])ing into tlie alidomen, its rapid enlargement was the immediate cause of the ]»aiu and peri- tonitis. As to how it reached its situation so high up in the abdomen, 1 do not venture to otter an explanation. A history of a tumour like this is, of course, very dilferent from what occurs in intra-ligamentous or sessile tumours, where the uterus is lifted up by the growing tumour, and the neoplasm continues pelvic as w'ell as alidominal dui-ing its life liistory. I may mention tliat the o])eration, as can be readily under- stood, was simple. In regard to the length of the iiedicle. Sir Spencer Wells ^ records a case wdiere he diagnosed a boating kidney, and later operated for an ovarian cyst on the ojiposite side, and then discovered the sipiposed floating kidney was an ovarian tumour with a ])edicle over a foot long. (’ase 2.—A young woman presented herself at the .Hospital with no very definite symptoms, except irregulai- men- struatiim and obscure pelvic pain. On examination, a tumour aliout the size of a small cocoanut was found occupving the ])ouch of .Douglas, displacing tlie uterus upwards and forwards. 'Die tumour was very tense, and, owing to its disposition with regard to tlie uterus, it was diagnosed as a sessile ovarian cyst. (i)n o])ening the abdomen, ami jiassing my hand into tlie ])ouch of J)ouglas, the tumour slijijied up into tlie abdomen. It was quite fi-ee of any adliesions, and 1 was able to lift it out entire witliout securing or ligaturing anything whatever. It proved to bo a simple ovarian cyst, and this was corrobor- ated by the alisence of the ovary on the right side. On putting my liand into the pelvis afterwards, I found no trace ’ Mc(l. Times and Ga:., London, 187S, vol. i. p. 672.