CLINICAL PAPERS. I?2 tumour of the ovary, about the size of a large orange, which had resulted from the injudicious use of the dilator. I do not stay here to multiply examples, because such would be of no use, as all the disasters are, to my mind, entirely due to want of appreciation of the proper cause of the dysmenorrhcea, and the proper ditferentiation of that wliich depends upon ovarian and tubal conditions and that which is entirely uterine in its origin. There is no question that, among the minor gynaecological trouldes, dysmenorrhoea occupies a first place. There is difficulty iu its diagnosis and difficulty in its cure. j\Iany cases wliicli at first look simple, and seem due to some uterine condition, are nevertheless found complicated, on care- ful examination, with appendage trouble ; and many in which the appendages are diseased, and where the cause seems to lie in them alone, the dysmenorrlima is complicated by a uterine condition as well. For example, what is only recognised as a stenosed cervix, I have seen over and over ayjain treated bv the introduction of mechanical agents into the uterus, wliere a little careful inquiry into the history and symptoms of the case would have led tlie operator to look for and find some degree of appendage troul)le. Furthermore, every one who knows anything of gynajcology at all knows that the personal equation, if I may say so, is more marked in the uterus and appendages than in any other organ in the l)ody; and there- fore, even although we find no appendage trouble apprecial)le by the touch, it is desirable, before artificial dilatation be liad recourse to, that the sound should be passed once or twice in order to ascertain to wliat extent tlie uterus and its anuexa resent interference. Within the limits referred to, rapid dilatation of the cervix uteri, under an amestlietic, gives most satisfactory results in simple uterine dysmenorrhoea. It is simpler, safer, and more enduring than tents, and l)etween this operation and the use of intra-uterine stems there is no comparison, so far as safety is concerned. Wliile distinctlv recomusiim that in a number M O O