CLINICAL PAPERS. decidua or shreds; and 1 fear that, under similar circum- ail iudistiiict, thougli perceptilile, fulness in the right lateral fornix. 'J’he ipiestion was pressing—Was it a ruptured tuhal ])regnancy or a lueniatocele ? I confess that tlie nieiistrual suppression, the long interval between the last pregnancy, and the sudden and acute symptoms of collapse, along with the conditions found per vaginam, decided me in favour of an ectopic gestation. [ opened the al)domen, tlierefore, and found it filled witli fresh blood and enormous clots. These I cleared out partially, and then went ilirect to the pelvis and examined lioth uterine appendages. Both of these 1 lirought to tlie surface, examined and removed ; and though I found the ovaries enlarged and cystic, yet there was no evidence of any gestation sac. I was unable to find tlie source of luemorrhage anywhere, and, being unwilling to further jeopardise the jiatient, 1 closed the abdomen. The luemorrhage continued, however, unabated, and the patient died the following day. Xo post-mortem examination was permitted, therefore I am unable to say whence the luemorrhage actually came ; but it is euougli, for the purpose of tlie present communication, to point out that my diagnosis was not borne out by the result. On looking back on such a case, 1 cannot see that I could have arrived at any conclusion other than that I did. The menstrual sup})ression, the acute pain coming in paroxysms accompanied liy luemorrhage, the softness and enlargement of tlie uterus, all ])ointed, it seems to me, conclusively in this direction; and yet the abdominal .section, whatever may have been the cause of the luemorrhage, showed that pregnancy, either intra-uterine oi' ectopic, did not exist. Although ru])tnre usually takes }>lace later on in tubal pregnancy, it is by no means infreipient at the seventh or eighth week. 1 cannot suggest what means there are at our dis])()sal to arrive at any conclusion other than the one I was iorced to, except that there was no history of passage of