14 CATALOGUE OF MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS before a less limited circle of readers. It has been thought desirable, therefore, to found a journal specially devoted to the publication of original contributions to General Pathology, Patho- logical Anatomy, and Experimental Pathology, including Bacteriology. These articles will, of course, be mainly from British Laboratories and Hospitals ; but the co-operation of many distinguished Continental, American, and Colonial Pathologists has been obtained, and papers written or edited by them will be placed before our readers. In order to increase the interest and extend the usefulness of the Journal, it is intended that, in addition to original articles, critical summaries of work done in special departments of Pathology and Bacteriology shall from time to time be published. All articles appearing in the Journal will be signed. The Journal appears at least four times a year, but it will be issued more frequently if necessary, in order to ensure publication of all papers as early as possible after they are received. The numbers issued throughout the year form a volume, royal 8vo, of about 500 pages. They are printed on good paper, and freely illustrated with Chromo-lithographs and figures in black and white. Amongst those who collaborate are the following :—J. C. Adami, Montreal; S. Arloing, Lyons; B. Bang, Copenhagen; Ch. Bouchard, Paris; R. Boyce, Liverpool; J. Rose Bradford, London ; H. Buchner, Munich ; Sir Charles Cameron, Dublin; Angelo Celli, Rome; A. Chantemesse, Paris; A. B. Charrin, Paris; A. Chauveau, Paris; W. Watson Cheyne, London; H. Chiari, Prague; W. T. Councilman, Boston; D. D. Cunningham, Calcutta; S. Delepine, Manchester; J. Dreschfeld, Manchester; I). Drummond, Newcastle; Von Esmarch, Koenigsberg; Ch. Firket, Libge; R. H. Fitz, Boston; P. Grawitz, Greifswald ; W. S. Greenfield, Edinburgh; E. H. Hankin, Agra; Victor Horsley, London ; F. Hueppe, Prague; O. Israel, Berlin; Alfred Lingard, Poonah; Lord Lister, London; O. Lubarsch, Rostock; P. Marie, Paris; E. Metch- nikoff, Paris; F. W. Mott, London; Robert Muir, Glasgow; E. Nocard, Alfort; T. Oliver, Newcastle; J. Orth, Got- tingen ; William Osier, Baltimore; J. F. Payne, London; T. Mitchell Prudden, New York; J. M. Purser, Dublin ; J. C. Salomonsen, Copenhagen; Sir J. Burdon Sanderson, Oxford; C. S. Sherrington, Liverpool; J. Lorrain Smith, Belfast; A. M. Stalker, Dundee; II. Stilling, Lausanne; I. Straus, Paris; 'I\ P. Ander- son Stuart, Sydney ; R. 'rhoma, 1 )orpat; E. 'rrcvclyan, Leeds; Sir John Batty 'Puke, Edinburgh ; L. Vaillard, Ikaris; Rudolf Virchow, Berlin; 11. Marshall Ward, Cambridge; A. Weich- selbaum, Vienna; C. Weigert, Frankfort a/M; W. H. Welch, Baltimore; Sir Samuel Wilks, Bart., London; A. E. Wright, Netley ; Von Zenker, Erlangen ; E. Ziegler, Freiburg.