126 CLINICAL PAPERS. The most obvious effect wliich distension of the bladder exerts on the uterus is familiar to every practical accoucheur. If the hand is passed over the abdomen twelve or fifteen 1 lours after labour, and the fundus uteri is felt higli and far hack from the abdominal wall and less distinctly palpated, the explanation is to be looked for in a distended bladder. First, then, displacement upwards. The term displace- ment does not, liowever, convey accurately what occurs. No doubt there is a certain amount of ascension of the uterus. This is small. The heightening of the fundus uteri is brought about through the distending bladder straightening the uterus and making it upright. As the bladder increases in size, tlie uterus is pushed further back from the alidominal walls. Some of the intestines in this way slip down between the uterus and alxlominal parietes, and then palpation is rendered more difficult. It is not so much a mere dragging up of the uterus, as an increase in its real height by the straightening of the organ. In Autefage and Depaul’s experiments with the hysterometer—an instrument constructed like a pair of com- passes, one branch being introduced into the vagina to the cervix, and the other externally at the fundus uteri—refer- ence is made to this point. By means of this instrument, devised by Depaul and carried into practice by Autefage, it was attempted to estimate the rate of involution of the uterus. Autefage mentions that the actual length of the uterus was increased while the bladder was distended, and that the ors:an returned to its normal size when the bladder was emptied. There seems to me to be a fallacy here, for with a full bladder the distance between the two buttons of the hystero- meter will be increased, owing to the bulging of the vesical tumour rendering the whole organ more erect; and, further, owing to the displacement of the cervix further back in the vagina. In order to ascertain the fact of increase in the cavity of the uterus, the measurements would require to be taken with the uterine sound.