I2I FIBROID TUMOURS DURING PREGNANCY. to remove the tumour. Fixing a volsella tlirougb its sub- stance, and at the same time steadying the fundus uteri, it was easily removed by avulsion. The lueniorrbage ceased and tlie uterus brmly contracted. Immediately after its removal the cavity of the uterus was washed (uit l>y a liot uterine douche of 1—2000 corrosive. The following day the uterus was again washed out. There was no luemorrliage, but large pieces of apparently Ideaclied decidua ])assed, witli large, extremely fcetid sloughing masses. On the third the ])atient was quite well. Oii the fourth day the discharge was ofleiisive, and was accompanied by flaky pieces of foetid decidua. The uterus was again washed out. For tw(^ days thereafter the patient continued to do well, but on the second day there was a rise of pulse and temperature, extreme tenderness over the abdomen, and she died, apparently from acute septiciemia, on the following morning. Xo post- mortem was allowed. I attribute the death of this patient to septiciemia, due to gangrene either of the stump of the tumour, or else to a second polypus becoming gangrenous through the admission of air. The former is, I think, the most likely explanation, judging by the early ap])earance of the flaky sloughing mass, and the fact that the discharge was offensive from the first. Case 2.—Mrs. C. S. was delivered after a normal labour. On the fifth day post-partum, the hiemorrhage being profuse and noticeably offensive in character, my friend Dr. John I’layfair—under whose charge the lady was—proceeded to explore the cavum uteri, and found an irregular rough body projecting into it, which he diagnosed to be a uterine poly])us. He asked me to see the case with him. AVith careful antiseptic precautions I dilated the cervix uteri with my fingers, and at the fundus uteri I discovered the mass which Dr. Playfair had descriljed to me, and, fimling it pediculated and soft, easily twisted it ofl‘ with my fingers. The mass was