i86 CLINICAL PAPERS. eases into primitive and secondary as an imnecessary classifica- tion. He admits that full presentations of the face are often primitive, and attributes them to spontaneous movements of the child, the face getting so fixed by uterine contraction. Sir dames Simpson accounts for face cases and malpresentation generally—(1) by deatli of foetus; (2) premature labour; (3) the application of unusual excito-niotor stimuli to the foetus ami uterus ; (4) causes mechanically displacing foetus during pregnancy or conmiencenieut of labour—e.g. {a) excess of li(|Uor aiiniii; (h) sudden rupture of membranes. Schroder says: “ In primipane in whom, during pregnancy, already distinct uterine contractions have taken place, they may be produced during that period—-primary face cases.” It would seem that Schroder overlooks tlie fact that, in primiparie at term, the head is lower than in multi})ane, and that the causes at work in producing secondary cases will come into play here as well. Idayfair accounts for primitive cases as tlie result of the well-known labour pains which continue marked before labour sets in. Spiegelberg refers incidentally to primitive, and records the fact tliat lie lias seen a primitive face case caused by bulging of the thorax in hydrothorax. iMatthews lJuncan, in a paper read in Edinburgli in April 1870, on the production of presentations of the face, confines his attention entirely to the secondary or ordinary face cases. Iteferring to primary cases, lie says: “ As has been already hinted at, all cases of face presentation do not demand this kind of explanation. Instances are recorded, for example, where the extreme extension of the head existing in an ordinary face case during labour has been observed before labour commenced.” To this extraordinary kind of face presentation, and others allied to it. Dr. Duncan makes no reference whatever, confining himself entirely to the mechanism of the production of face presentation under ordinary circum- stances. The following is a good example of a primary face case.