95 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOiMY. ligament whatever, these cases being typical examples of the desirable cases on which to operate. And yet, in all, the dis- ease recurred in the peritoneum, and the patient died in great distress within the year. Now, given that the diagnosis of cancer is made at its most initial stage, with due care and attention, a woman’s expectation of life may be from two to two and a half years,— I ask, with the best statistics available, whether she has a better prospect if the cancer be left alone, or if it be inter- fered with by hysterectomy ? Many forms of cancer are pain- less. Most of them destroy life through h[emorrhage, exhaustion, and urtemic poisoning, etc. The (piestion is. Do women live longer lives and die less painful deaths if the uterus be removed, or if the disease he allowed to run its ordinary course ? For my own part, I do not think that surgical interference is the better. I know well that I shall he confronted with the German statistics. It is not becoming in me to question these statistics; hut I do not think that either this country or America, whatever the explanation may be, has given us results at all in comparison with what the Germans claim. For example:—At the end of five years Fritsch had 36 per cent, of cures; Hofmeier, 3 3 per cent, after four years ; Schauta, 47 per cent, after two years. At the Dresden clin- ique, of eighty patients examined two years after operation, forty-five had no recurrence. Of fifty-eight examined after three years, 58'6 percent, were well. Of forty-two patients, after four years, in 5 9 per cent, there was no recurrence. Of thirty after five years, 6 0 per cent, were well, whilst two sur- vived seven years. Leopold states what seems to me the most startling statement in surgery, that out of seventy-six cases seventy-two were well and without recurrence after one to five and a half vears. If tliese figures are true—and I have no desire to traverse them—I can only say that cancer in Germany must be one