CAUSATION OF PRIMITIVE FACE CASES. 185 scribed fully in every treatise on midwifery, and with which every obstetrician is familiar, may Ije defined as those where the face is found presenting during labour, and is lu'ought about as a result of it. Tlie causation of such face cases has been fully inquired into. Daventer, Baudelocque, Duncan, though differing considerably in detail, refer the cause to some fault in the powers of parturition, namely, uterine ol)liqnity. Hecker finds the cause in the l)ody passing, namely, in a lengthening of the posterior arm of the cranial lever in dolico- cephalic children; while, according to others, the bony passages are at fault, and the occiput hitching on the brim of a narrow pelvis is the cause. With this set of face cases the present communication is in no way concerned. The other set of face cases are those whicli are termed primitive or primary, namely, those cases in wliich the face presents during pregnancy, before the commencement of labour, when, therefore, the head is above tlie Ijrim, free from contact with the bony pelvis, and the mendu’anes unruptured. Such cases, however remarkable they may seem, and liowever difficult of explanation, are yet distinctly recognised by many, indeed by most authors. IMadame Lachapelle records two cases, where post-mortem examinations of women near full term showed the fmtus presenting by the face. The authors of the Dictioiinaire de mklecinc collected eighty-five cases, forty-nine of which were clearly made out and announced as such Ijefore rupture of the memijranes. Further, of these eighty-five cases, there were only three in which the uterus was in a state of well-marked oljli(piity, and only one where the amnionic fluid was in excess. From this evidence, as well as from other causes, which, however, he does not mention, Cazeaux conies to tlie conclusion that the majority are primitive, and due to causes altogether beyond our knowledge. Tyler Smith makes no special reference to tliis class of face cases, but refers the causation of all face cases to causes intrinsic or extrinsic to the foetus. Hodge objects to the division of face