COMPLICAT'ED DOUBLE OVARIOTOMY. 79 irregular in shape, aud presented all the features of a inalig- naiit ovarian tumour, aud as such it was then diagnosed, and the condition was considered a hopeless one. From July 1897 till April 1898 the patient lay in the ward, extremely exhausted and emaciated, although slie never seemed to get specially worse. Exploratory incision, far less any attempt at operation, was not thought of, but, as a matter of tem- porary relief, her abdomen was ta|.)ped regularly once a fortnight, aud fluid removed, varying in quantity from 300 to 500 oz. Examination of the fluid sliowed that it was mainly ascitic. The right pleural cavity was also tapped during this period on four occasions, each time from 100 to 120 oz. IjeiuQ- removed. Tfie cedenia of the lower limbs was also frequently relieved by Southey’s tubes. Gradually one was forced to the conclusion that, since the patient’s general condition had l^ecouie really no worse than on admission, aud since the condition in the abdomen had not changed in any way, the tumour miglit not, after all, he malignant, and therefore it was decided tliat the abdomen should he opened, and, if possible, the tumour be removed. Accordingly, on April 5, 1898, I operated, and removed one of the largest dermoid ovarian tumours I have met witli. It weighed, even after tapping, about 30 11). It had developed from tlie left ovary, and the operation was coni])aratively simple, the pedicle being well defined, and tlie adhesions few and easily separated. I’he right ovary, which was apparently healthy, was left intact. After the operation the patient was extremely col- lapsed, but with free stimulation she speedily revived, and made an excellent recovery. The oedema entirely disappeared, and the extensive general emaciation became more aud more striking, but in the course of a few weeks the patient put on flesh rapidly, and Ijy June 7 was suliiciently well to be sent to the Convalescent House, and a fortnight later she left for home in Shetland.