CLINICAL PAPERS. 92 Now, this divorceiuent of diseases of women from ob- stetrics is not altogether without its disadvantages. The pendulum has swung, and swung very markedly, to surgery. That to surgery gyuiecology has owed its greatest victories, there can be no f[uestion at all. One lias only to think of the improvements in abdominal hysterectomy, and its fullest develo})inent in pan-hysterectomy, with, on the other hand, tlie conservative operation of myomectomy. Tliese all are recent triumplis of the surgeon’s art. Furtlier, the last decade has witnessed remarkalile improvement in the treat- ment of diseases of the uterine appendages. For while, no doubt, the removal of ovaries and tubes for intlammatorv diseases has been enormously overdone, yet our experience has now crystallised our knowledge with regard to the patlio- logical conditions for which these structures can be con- scientiously removed. We cannot be too glad to recognise that the tendency now is lieconiing more and more conser- vative, and that the perfected methods of antiseptic surgery enable us to deal with even limited areas wliich are affected, in ovaries and tidies which are not entirely diseased. The ease and safety with wliich complete salpiugo-obphorectomy can be performed must ever be a reason why we should safe- guard this operation as much as possible ; and fortunately we are now in a position to realise that only in grave pathological lesions should these organs lie entirely removed. Those of us who have been in the habit of dealing with morbid pelvic conditions must have become impressed with the fact that removal of the ovaries for merely intiammatory conditions is by no means a uniform relief to the symptoms, and often has grave and serious effects upon the patient otlierwise. Of tulial affections none can be more important than tubal pregnancy: and the treatment of extra-uterine gestation has become, within the last fifteen years, one of the recognised triumphs of gymecological surgery. The means of dealing with a tubal pregnancy before rupture are quite well deter-