CLINICAL PAPERS. 148 record has not been a clean one, where there has been insanity or mental weakness, either in the case of the patient herself previously, or in her parents, or in the collateral branches of the family. Of course I am not concerned with the question as to the advisability or propriety of operating upon mentally diseased women, or women with neurotic inheritance. Tlie prognosis in such cases is serious. The tendency to rouse up morbid mental tendencies in such people by operations is, of course, very serious, and therefore in such women operations of convenience, which are not necessary for the prolongation of life, ought to be undertaken very guardedly indeed. Before going further, let me give an illustration of a case of mental disturbance associated with menstruation in an otherwise healthy woman, with a good history, unassociated with any operative interference whatever :— Case 1.—The patient was a young unmarried girl, iet. 26, and the complaint was, that she had for long exhibited symptoms of violent dislike to her relatives, especially her brothers and sisters, during the five days that her catamenia lasted. She was morose during the whole period, declined to speak to any member of the family, and was violently insult- ing when spoken to; but the day after her catamenia ceased she was bright, cheerful, and well, and willing to enjoy all the pleasures of life. This had lasted for ten years. She lias been on more than one occasion examined carefully, under chloroform, and no morbid condition whatever could be found in the uterus and annexa. She had no dysmenorrhoea. Her sisters are all healthy and well, and there is, so far as could lie ascertained, no history of any insanity in the family. Tliis case seems to be one in which tliere must be some peculiar idiosyncrasy in the patient, wliicli is associated with nothing apparently alinormal in the pelvis, witli no displacement, neo- plasm, or lesion in either the uterus or its appendages. Ihit the interesting point of the case is, that she married two years