CLINICAL PAPERS. 56 The tumour having Ijeeii aspirated, and its contents-— clear, limpid, and in (quantity about three basinsful—with- drawn, the nature of the case was recognised, namely, a sessile tumour connected witli the right broad ligament. I accordingly proceeded to deal with it by cutting thrijugh tlie capsule, and little l>y little separating the cyst wall therefrom, d'his I was al)le to accomplisli completely, excepting tlie portion above referred to, on the riglit side of tlie uterus, wliich was so closely incorporated with the wall of tliat organ that it was necessary to ligature the connection in three places, remove the cyst, and drop the so-called pedicle back into the abdominal cavity. The bleeding capsule remained and formed a deep cavity, X>assing tu the very floor of the pouch of Douglas. I removed its redundant parts, but found it impractical ile to deal with the portion in the pelvis and pouch of Douglas in any other way than liy sewing its edges to the wound, and draining. Case 353.—The abdomen being opened, the usual Idiie a])pearance of an ovarian cyst presented itself. It was tapped with an ordinary trocar and cannula, and several basinsful of a thick e,Tunious fluid drawn off. The tumour had a few unimportant adhesions, and was without difficulty turned out through the abdominal wound. It was then found that there existed no pedicle whatever, the whole pelvic part of the tumour being encapsided in broad ligament, which had in due course to be i)eeled off bit by bit, and the cyst shelled out. As it had not dipped very dee])l}', however, 1 succeeded in sewing up the remains of the capsule by continuous suture and dropping it back in the al)domen, treating it, in fact, as an ordinary intraperitoneal ovarian stum]), without any drainage. This is evidently one of a grou]) of cases s])ecially referred to hy Doran, winch is compound in its nature, the upper portion being true ovarian in its character, and therefore free, the lower p(_)rtion developing from the hilum of the ovary, and