CASjES of mistaken sex in adult life. 159 The patients were indeed cases of hypospadias, with nialformation of tlie penis and the scrotnni, and the fact was l3i'onght home to me that I was dealing with two men, and not with two women, as was supposed when, an hour before, they came under my care. One is inclined to regard all sncli cases as these in the light merely of curiosities, and it is as curiosities that most of them are recorded. To the teratologist, now that teratology is being recognised as a science by itself, they are nn- donbtedly of great interest and importance ; but one also learns by experience that in the field of practical medicine they raise difficnlties and produce complications of no small magnitude. Neugebauer speaks of the grave responsibility whicli rests with one who fails to recognise the seriousness of mistakes made in determining the sex of a child at birth. He alludes to two melancholy cases of suicide which arose from such mistakes. One of the cases which he cites is that of a woman of 50, who had been married at the age of 21, and divorced from her husband ten years later. The husband’s plea was not only that he could not consummate his marriage, but that his wife made him a source of ridicule to his acquaintances because of her conduct towards other women. It was dis- covered at last that this supposed woman was in reality a man, the subject of hypospadias; and thereupon slie claimed from her brother a share of the patrimony. Against this claim the l)rother entered a counter-plea against the newly discovered brother, of seduction of his wife. Surely a suf- ficiently complicated and involved question ! Dailliez records a remarkable case, in which proceedings on the part of a husband for procuring a divorce were carried on during twenty-two years, before it was finally decided that the supposed wife was not a female at all. Three medical experts first examined the supposed woman, and declared her positively to be a female, while two other doctors asserted