99 VA GINA L II VS TERE CTOM V. non-operating gynaecologists; but, on looking back over a considerable experience, 1 am unable to recall much benetit that has accrued from surgical interference, as far as the cancerous uterus is concerned. That the subject of cancer should have occupied the l»est minds of the greatest men, is not a matter of surprise. "Wdien \ve consider the hopelessness of the disease, and the pain and suffering which are its invariable accompaniments,—this, I say, is not a matter for surprise. Still less do we wonder when we think of its extraordinary prevalence. After mammary cancer, the uterus is l)y far tlie most frequent seat of the disease in women. I ])elieve I do not overstate tlie case when 1 say that at the present moment there are at least 8000 women—probably a great many more—suffering from uterine cancer in the United Kingdom. For, rely upon it, there is no more pressing subject; for it seems to me that, in our efforts to cure or ameliorate cancer, we have come against a dead wall. AVhether it is possible that we may have got a suggestion in removal of the ovaries for the cure of inoperable mammary cancer, and whether tlie same operation may offer a possibility for uterine cancer, remains a moot question. It is also possible that the solution may still be found in treatment by some animal extract, or on the antitoxiue principle, which has been found so valuable in dij^htheria and tetanus. Nothing, certainly, can be more remarkable than the accidental discovery of what has proved a most nlar^■ellous remedy for myxoedenia, in the treatment by thyroid extract. And, in our own department, we have a similarly striking example in the accidental discovery and development of the results which follow upon removal of the ovaries in cases of osteomalacia. For our knowledge of this question we are much indebted to Dr. James Pdtchie. Whether this condition be due to zymotic influences, to reflex nervous phenomena, to dietetic causes, or to altered chemical changes, the fact