I PUBLISHED BX LONGMAN, BEOWN, AND CO. 19 Powell.—Ersays oe the Spirit of tl;e Inductile I'liilosophy, tlie Unity of Worlds, and the Philosophy of Crea- tion. By the llev. Baden Powell, M.A., kc. Crown 8vo.Woodcuts, 12s. Gd. Powell.—Christianity without Judaism: A Second Series of Essays on the Unity of Worlds and of Nature. By the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., &c. Crown 8vo. 7s. Ud. Pycroft.—The Collegian’s Guide; or. Recollections of College Days : Set- ting forth the Advantages and Teny)- tations of a University Education. By the Rev. J. Pycboet, B.A. Second Edition, Fep. Svo. Cs. Pycroft’s Course of English Reading ; or. How and Wliat to Read : Adapted to every taste .and capacity. With Literary Anecdotes. Fcp. Svo. 5s. Pycroft’s Cricket-Field ; or, the Science and History of the Game of Cricket. Second Edition; Plates and Woodcuts. Fcp. Svo. 5s. Quatrefages (A. De).—Eamhles of a Naturalist on the Coasts of France, Spain, and Sicily. By A. De Qoatke- FAGEs, Memb. Inst. Translated by E. C. Dite'. 2 vols, post Svo. 15s. Kaikes (C.)—Notes on the Ke- volt in the North-Western Provinces of India. By Chables Raikes, Judge of the^ Sudder Court, and late Civil Commissioner with Sir Colin Camp- bell. Svo. 7s. 6d, Eaikes (T.)—Portion of the Jour- nal kept by Thojias Raikes, Esq., from 1851 to 1847 : Comprising Remi- niscences of Social and Political Life in London and Paris during that pe- riod. 2 vols, crown 8vo. price 12s. Rarey.—A Complete Treatise on the Science of Handling, Educating and Taming .all Horses; with a full and detailed Narrative of his Expe- rience and Practice. By John S. Rarey, of Ohio, XI, S, In 1 vol. with numerous Illustrations. [JtoI readv. Dr. Reece’s Medical Guide : Com- prising a complete Modem Dlspensa- tory, and a Practical Treatise on the distinguishing Symptoms, Causes, Pro- yention. Cure, and Palliation of the Disea.ses incident to the Human Frame. Seventeenth Edition, corrected and en- larged by Dr. H. Reece. 8vo. 12s. 1 Reade.—The Poetical Works of John Edmund Reade. New Edition, revised and corrected ; with Additional Poems, i vols. fcp. 8vo. 20s. Rees. — Personal Narrative of the Siege of Lucknow, from its com- mencement to its Relief by Sir Colin Campbell. By L. E. Rees, one of the surviving Defenders. Third Edition. Post Svo. price 9s. Gd. Rich’s Illustrated Companion to the Latin Dictionary and Greek Lexi- con; Forming a Glossary of all the Words representing Visible Objects connected \vith the Arts. Manufactures, and Every-Day Life of tlie Ancients, With about 2,000 Woodcuts from the Antique. Post 8vo. 21s. Richardson.—Fourteen Years’ Experience of Cold Water: Its Uses and Abuses. By Captain M. Riciiabd- sox. Post 8vo. Woodcuts, 6s. Horsemanship ; or, the Art of Riding and Managii^ a Horse, adapted to the Guidance of Ladies and Gentle- men on the Road and in the Field : With Instructions for Brealcing-in Colts and Young Horses. By Captain Rich- ardson, late of the 4th Light Dragoons. With 5 Plates. Square crown 8vo. 14s, Household Prayers for Four Weeks : With additional Prayers for Special Occasions. To which is added a Course of Scripture Reading for Even' Day in the Year. By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, M.A. Crown 8vo. 3s. Gd, Riddle’s Complete Latiu-English and English-Latin Dictionary, for the use of Colleges and Schools. iVcic Edi- tion, revised and corrected. Svo. 21s. Riddle’s Diamond Latin-English Dictioiuu-j'.. A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation of Latin Classical Wor ds. Royal 32mo. 4s. Riddle’s Copious and Critical L.atin-English Lexicon, founded on the German-Latin Dictionaries of Dr. Wil- liam Fremid. Post 4to. 31s. Gd. Rivers’s Rose-Amateur’s Guide; containing ample Descriptions of .all the fine leading variety of Boses j'cgu- larly classed in their respeclive Fami- lies; their Historj'aud Mode of Culture. Sixth Edition. Fcp. Svo. Ss. Gd. I