PUBLISHED BY LONSMAN, BEOWN, AND CO. 23 The Traveller’s Library : A Col- lection of original Works well adapted for Travellers and £miffrants, for School^room Zibraries, tlie Libraries of Mechanics* In- stitutions, 1‘ormg Men's Libra nes, the Libraries of Ships, and similar purposes. The separate volxunes are suited for School Prizes, Presents to Young People, and for general instruction and entertainment. The Series comprises fourteen of the most popular of Lord Macaulay’s Essays, and his Speeches on Parliamentary Reform. The department of Travels contains some account of eight of the principal countries of Europe, as well as travels in four districts of Africa, in four of America, and in three of Asia. Madame Pfeiffer’s First Journey round the World is included ; and a general account of the Colonies. In Bio- graphy and History will be found Lord Ma- caulay’s Biographical Sketches of Warren Hastings, Clive, Pitt, Walpole, Bacon, and others; besides Memoirs of Wellington, Tu- renne, F. Arago, &c. ; an Essay on the Life and Genius of Thomas Fuller, witli Selec- tions from his Writings, by Mr. Henry Rogers ; and a history of the Lcipsic Cam- paign, by Mr. Gleig, — which is the only separate account of this remarkable cam- ; paign. Works of Fiction did not come within the plan of the Traveller’s Libr.\.ry ; but the Confessions of a Workina Man, bySou- vestre, which is indeed a fiction founaed on fact, has been included, and has been read w ith unusual interest by many of the work- ing classes, for whose use it is especially re- commended. Dumas’s story of the Maitre- d’.Arme«, thoueh in form a work of fiction, Eves a striking picture of an episode in the story of Russia. Amongst the works on Science and Natural Philosophy, a general \new of Creation is embodied in Dr. Kemp’s Natural History of Creation ; and in his Indications of Instinct remarkable facts in natural history are collected. Dr. Wilson has contributed a popular account of the Electric Telegraph. In the volumes on the Coal-Fields, and on the Tin and other Mining Districts of Cornwall, is given an account of the mineral wealth of England habits and manners of the miners, ancf the scenery of the sxirrounding coimtry It only remains to add, that among the Mis- cellaneous Works are a Selection of the best Writings of the Rev. Sydney Smith; Lord Carlisle’s Lectures and Addresses; an ac- count of Mormonism, by the Rev. W J Conybeare ; an exposition of BaiUcay ma- nagement and mismanagement by Mr. Her- bert Spencer ; an account of the Origin and Practice of Printing, by Mr. Stark ; and an account of London, by Mr. M‘Culloch. 'To be had, in complete Sets only, at £5. 5s per Set, bound in cloth and lettered. ’ ^ The Travellers XAl/rary may also be Imd as orif^inally issued in 102 parts Is. each, forming .50 vole. 2s. 6d, each ; or any separate parts or volumes. Sharon Turner's Sacred History ol tlie _Woi*lil, Philosoiihicallv con- sidered, 111 a Series of Letters to'a Son. 8 vols, post Svo. Sis. fid. Sharon Turner’s History of En<r- land during tlie MidiUe Ages; Com- prising the Reigns from tlie Norman Conquest to the Accession of Henry VIII. 4 vols. Svo. 5ils. Sharon Tui’ner’s History of the Anglo-Saxons, from theEarliest Period to the Norman Conquest. 3 vols. 3Gs. Dr. Turton’s Manual of the Land .and Fresh-Water SheUs of Great liritain : With Figures of each of the kinds. New Edition, with Additions hj Dr- J. E. Gkay, F.R.S., &c.. Keeper ol the Zoological Collection in the British Museum. Crown Svo. with 12 coloured Plates, price 15s. cloth. Dr. Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines : Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles .and Practice. Fourth Edition, much enlarged. Witli nearly 1,600 Wood- cuts. 2 vols. Svo. GOs. Uwins. — Memoir of Thomas Uwins,R.A. ByMrs.UwiKs. With Let- ters to his Brothers dm-irig Seven Years spent in Italy ; and Correspondence With tlie lute Sir Thomas Lawrence, Sir C. L. Eastlake, A. E.Chalon, R.A., and other distinguished persons, 2 vols, post 8vo. Van der Hoeven’s Handbook of I Zoolqgj’. Translated from the Second I Dutch Edition by the Rev. Willia:u Clajik, M.D., ïi'.R.S., Professor ol Anatomy in the University of Cam- bridge; with additional ‘References by the Author. 2 vols. 8vo. with 24 Plates of Figures, price fiOs. cloth ; or separately, Vol. I. Inve^'tehrata, 30s., and Vol. II. Vertebrata, 30s. Vehse.—Memoirs of the Court, Aristocracy, and Diiilom.acy of Austria. By Dr. E. Vehse. Translated from the German by Feanz Demmlee. 2 vols, post 8vo. 21b. Von Tempsky.—Mitla ; or, In- cidents and Personal Adventures on a .Tourney in Mexico, Guatemala, and Salvador in the Years 18,53 to 185.5 • With Obsen’ations on the Modes ol Life in those Countries. By G. F. Von Tempsky. With numerous Illustra- tions. 8vo. 18s.