PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, BKOWN, AND CO. HassalL—A History of the Bri- tish Freshwater Al^ : Including Descriptions of the Desmideœ and Diatomacere. By Arthtjb Hill Has- SALL, M.D. 2 vols. Svo. with 103 Plates. £1.15s. Hassall.—Adulterations Detect- ed : or, Plain Instructions for the Dis- covery of Frauds in Food and Medicine. By Arthur Hill Hassall, M.D. Loud., Analyst of The Lancet Sanitary Commission, and Author of the Reports of tliat Commission published under the title oi Food and its Adulterations (which may also be had, in 8vo. price Ms.j With 225 Illustrations, engraved on Wood, Crown 8vo. 17s. 6d. Col. Hawker’s Instructions to Young Sportsmen in all that relates to Guns ana Shooting. 10th Edition, re- vised by the Author’s Son, Major P. Sv. L. Hawker. With Portrait, Plates, and Woodcuts. Svo. 21s. Haydn’s Book of Dignities ; Containing Rolls of the Official Person- ages of the British Empire, Civil, Ec- clesiastical, Judicial, Militaiy, Naval, and Municipal, from the Earliest Pe- riods to the Present Time. Together with the Sovereigns of Europe, from the Foundation of their respective States: the Peerage and Nobility of Great Britain, &c. Svo. 25s. Hayward. — Biographical and Critical Essays, reprinted from Re- views, with Additions and Corrections. By A. Hatward, Esq., Q.C. 2 vols. Svo. 21s. The Heirs of Cheveleigh : A Novel. By Geevaise Abboh. 3 vols, post 8vo. 31s. M. Sir John Herschel’s Outlines of Astronomy. Fifth Edition, revised and corrected to the existing state of astronomical knowledge ; with Plates and Woodcuts. 8vo. 18s. Sir John Herschel's Essays from the Edinburgh and Quarterh/ Reviews, witli Addresses and otlie’r Pieces. 8vo.18s. Hinchliff. — Summer Months among the Alps : With the Ascent of Monte Rosa. By Tnos. W. Hinchlief, Barrister-at-Law. Post 8vo. lüs. Gd. 11 Hints on Etiquette and the Usages of Society : Witli a Glance at Bad llal)its. New Edition, revised (witli Additions) by a Lady of Rank. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. Gd. Holland.—Medical Notes and Eetlections. By Sir Heney Holland, M.D., F.R.S., Ac., Pliysician in Ordi- nary to the Queen and Prince-Consort. Third Edition. 8vo. 18s. Holland.—Chapters on Mental Physiology. By SR Henry Holland, Bart., F.H.S., &c. Fomuled chiefly on Chapters contained in Medical Notes and Reflections by the same Author. Second Edition, Post Svo, 8s. 6d. Hooker.—Kew Gardens; or, a Popular Guide to the Royal Botanic Gardens of Kew. By Sir William Jackson Hooker, K.H., &c., Dh-ec- tor. With many Woodcuts. IGmo. Gd. Hooker’s Museum of Economic Botany ; or, Popular Guide to the Useful and Remarkable Vegetable Products of the Museum m the Royal Gardens of Kew. 16mo. Is. Hooker and Arnott’s British Flora; comprising the Phænogaraous or Flowering Plants, and the Ferns. Seventli Edition, with Additions and Corrections; and numerous Figures illustnitive of the UmbelliferousPlauts, the Composite Plants, the Grasses, and tile Ferns. 12mo. ivith 12 Plates, 14s. ; with the Plates coloured, 21s. Horne’s Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. Tenth Edition, re- vised, corrected, and brought down to i tile present time. Edited liv the Rev. i T. Hartwell Horne, B.D. (the Author); tile Rev. Samuel Davidson, D.D. of tile University of H;ille, and LL.U. ; and S. PrideauxTreqelles, LL.I). Witli 4 Maps and 22 Vignettes imd Facsimiles. 4 vols. Svo. £3.13s. Gd. Horne.—A Compendious Intro- duction to the Study of tlie Bible. By tlie Rev. T. Hartwell Horne, B.D. New Edition, witli Maps, &c. 12mo. 9s. Hoskyns.—Talpa ; or, the Chro- nicles of a Clay F.arm ; An Agrictili lirai Fragment. By Cuan >ns M hen HosKïNs.Esq. Fourth Edition. Witli 21 Woodcuts from Designs by Georoe Crulksuank. IGmo. 5s. Gd.