NEW WOKKS AND NEW EDITIONS G Black’s Practical Treatise on Brewing, based on Cbeiniciil and Eco- uomical Principles : With Eormulæ for Public Browers, and Instructions for Private FainUies. 8vo. 10s. Od. Blaine’s Encyelopædia of Rural Sports -or, a complete Account, Histo- neal. Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting, Pisliing, Racing, &c. New Edition, revised and corrected to the Present Time ; witli above 600 Woodcut Illustrations, including 20 Subjects now added from Designs by- John Leech. Blair’s Chronological and His- toric.al Tables, from the Creation to the Present Time: With Additions and Corrections from the most authentic Writers ; including the Computation of St. Paul, as connecting the Period from the Exode to the Temple. Under the revision of Sfr Henby Ellis, K H Imperial 8vo. 31s. 6d. half-morocco. Boyd. — A Manual for Naval Cadets. Published with the sanction and approval of the Lords Commis- sioners of the Admii’alty. By Jonw McNeill Boyd, Captain, R.N. WitJi Compass-Signals in Colours, and 23C Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 10s. 6d. Bloomfield.—The Greek Testa. ment ; with copious English Notes, Critical, Pliilological, and Explanatoi-y, Especially adapted to the use of Theo- logical Students and Ministers. By the Rev. S. T. Bloomfield, D.D., F.S.A. Ninth Edition, revised. 2 vols. 8vo with Map, j£2. 8s. Dr. Bloomfield’s College & School Edition of the Greek Testament : With briefEnglish Notes, cliiefly Philological and Explanatory. Seventh Edition; «dth Map and Index. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6d. Bourne. — A Treatise on the steam Engine, in its Application to Mmes, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways. By the Artisan Club. iJdited by John Bodenk, C.E. New Edition • witli :« Steel Plates, and SIS Wood Engravmgs. 4to. 27s. Bourne. —A Treatise on the Screw Propeller: With various Sug- gestions of Improvement. By Johk Bouene, C.E. New Edition, with J) large Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. ‘lto.38s. Brande's Dictionary of Science, Literature, and Art ; comprising the History, Description, and Scientific 1 rinciples of every Brandi of Human with the Derivation and Deflmtion of all the Terms in general use. Third Edition, revised and correct- ed; with numerous Woodcuts. Svo.OOs. Professor Brande’s Lectures on j Organic Chemistry, as applied to Manu- mctm-es, including Dyemg, Bleaching, I C.alico Printing, Sugar Manufacture, ' the Preservation of Wood, Tanning, I Ac. Edited by J. Scoffben, M.B. i Fcp. Woodcuts, 7s. 6d. Brewer.—An Atlas of History i and Geographj-, from the Commence- ment of the Christian Eia to the Pre- sent Time: Comprising a Series of Sixteen Coloured Maps, arranged in Chronologic.al Order, with Illustrative Memoirs. By the Rev. J. S. Bbbwbe, M.A. Second Edition, revised and cor- rected. Ro3'al Svo. 12s. 6d. half-bound. Brialmont. — The Life of the Duke of Wellington. From the French of Alexis Bbliluoxi, Captain on the Staff of the Belgian Army : With Emen- dations and Additions. Bj- the Rev. G. R. Gleig, M..\., Cliaplain-General to the Forces and Prebendary of St. P.anl’s. Witli Jlaps, Phans, and Por- traits. Vols. I. luid II. Svo. price 30s. VOL. III. (completion) is in preparation. Dr. Bloomfield’s College & School Lexicon to the Greek Testament. New Edition, revised. Fcp. 8vo. price lOs. 6d. Bourne’s Catechism of the Steam Engine in its various Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Rail- w.ays, and Agriculture : With Practical Instructions for the Manufacture and M.aiiagemeiit of Engines of every class. Fourth Edition, enlarged; with 89 Woodcuts. Fcp. Svo. Cs. Dr. T. Bull’s Hints to Mothers on j the Management of their Health during , the Period of Pregnancy and in the i Lying-in Room: With .an E-xiiosure of i Popular Errors in connexion with those | subjects, Ac. ; and Hints upon Nursing. New Edition. Fcp. Svo. 5s. | Bull. — The Maternal Manage- ment of Children in Health .and Dis- - case. By T. Bull, M.D., fonuerlj- Physician-Accoucheur to the Fiiisburj- Midwifery Institution. New EiUtion. Fop. Svo. 5s.