MR. FORESTER’S TOUR IN SARDINIA AND CORSICA. Now ready, in One Volume, imperial Svo. price 2Ss. cloth, EAMBLES IN THE ISLANDS OP CORSICA AND SARDINIA: TTITiT NOTICKS OP THEIR HISTORY, ANTIQUITIES, ANT) PRESENT CONDITION. BY TI10*MAS FORESTEll, al'tuok of “ Norway in ItilS and ISID,” Siv. with liU WOOD-ENGRAVINGS AND 8 ILLUSTRATIONS IN COLOURS AND TINTS FKOil SKETCHES MADE DURING THE TOUR BY LIEUT.-COL. BiDDULPH, ROYAL ARTILLERY; AND A COLOURED MAP OF THE TWO ISLANDS. IN COLOURS, Wap of Corsica and Sardinia Ajaccio Ersa, Capo Corso Corte Vi%‘ario Bonifacio Vnllev of the Liscia The Limbara PJain-of Or.ieri ON WOOD. Cornica. Marseilles , Islets oH Marseilles '• Chàteau-d'if Marseilles, from the ChAteau-d’If Erench Coast, oil' Ciolat List of the Illustrations. on* Toulon II Torre cli Seneca Isle of MoRte Cristo Meelin? of MounUins and Plain near Oastia Olmeta Isle of Monte Cristo, through a Gorge Betu'cen 01n>eto and Bigorno Ponte Murato CapoCorsOjfromChestnutM'oods Near Bigorno Citadel of C<irte Pinus Maritinia Pinus Lariccio Cone of tlie Pinus Lariccio Bark of the Pinus Lariccio Bocagnono , Harbour of Ajaccio ' Bonifacio, on the Sca-si.lc Outline of Sardinia, from Boni- facio Caves under Bonifacio Bonifacio, from the Convent in the Valley Sut'dinia. Looking ba<ik on Corsica A Salvator Hosa Scene Descent to the Campidano The Campidano Exterior of a Xuraghe Entrance to a Nuraghc Interior of a Nura^he SepoUura de Is Gisantes (2) Sardo-Roraan Coin Carthaginian Coin Saracen Coin Porto-Torres. Opinions of the Press. ‘^Ir.Forcster’sRnmbles are very amusing, and convey a good deal of information respecting the history, antiquities, .and present condition of the islamis,—information which the reader could not easily find elsewhere in so readable a form." Literary Gazette. Accompanied by a military friend,, with 'f ready pencil, Mr. Forester traversed tlie two islands.Cor.sica and Sardinia, from north to «outh, from Cape Corso to Cagliari. Thus his view is panoramic, an<l includes the graduated zones of the insular region, the city, the plain, the moun- tains, the valley of wild* olives, and tlie cork tree forests where the elades arc brightened with Tintoretto lights in the midst of Salvator Rosa shadows,—the two islands furnishing prominent contriists in scenery,climate, geological formation •nd^''ecetable growth, but both in the frame of the Tuscan Sea, glowing with exuberant beauty. Mr. Forester's first impressions of the interior amounted to fascination Many such vestiges remain as will be remarked by those who take in hand Mr, Forester’s entertaining story of Rambles m the islands of the Tuscan Sea.” Atiif.næum. “Tlio ea.sy yet graphic versatility of ob- serration with which interesting places or remiuk- able events are noticed, aHbrds good proof of tJie amusing yrt instructive spiriL which percolates the work. One excellent feature in Mr. Forester’s writing is that he describes with minuteness points very high position in literature ; but after a perusal of its contents, and an examination of its artistic illustrations, we feel assured that as a history or descriptive sketch of lands hitherto but partially known, whereof the customs have boon almost wholly unnoticed, these JtnmUcs will awaken general interest, and their publication be attended with important national results.” John Bull. ----------........ I.V-..V C.J inch,though supposed to be known to everybody, .are from that very supposition investigated 6y few. 1 erhaps the rarity of Corsic.an travefiers renders the U«k easy in this case, where the smaliesttopic IS a novelty; but weconl^ess to much admiration of the discretion evinced by our author, who, with every c.\re to describe with accuracy, thoroughly nforms yet never bores We might select -rS®b' from this volume^ since it yields abundant 1 to the romantic adventurer, the anti- ftn, the man of science, and the artist. Were ester’s book to be judged of only bv its ion of ths connexion between aborigi- ’ these islauds, it would assume a “ Mr. Forester^s book is in nil respects new; the brilliant lithograplis bring new land- scapes before our eyes, and new glimpses are opened by each of the hundred little peiicilUngs which ureak, like islands, the broad How of the narrative. The tour was commenced at Cape Corso, the northern part of the Island, and thence Mr. Forester penetrated the interior with a com- panion, on mule, or on foot, visiting the mountain hamlets, chatting with the peasantry, collecting anecdotes of-Napoleon and Paoli, of brigandage and vendetta, and gathering the :naU*riuls of a narrative more fresh and agreeable than has lately come before us. Almost the entire island is de- scribed at once in a style vivid and simple, and the illustrations of manners and customs ^vhich fell under Mr. Forester’s observations were in all respects of a singularly curious character, so com- pletely have the Corsicans retained their tradi- tions. In Sardinia, though the ground, is not so untrodden, Mr. Forester was enaliled by his prac- tice of striking into the seclusions of the country beyond the limits of ordinary travel, to possess' himself of nruch remarkable information, espe- cially in connexion with the revival of pagan man- ners and rites among tlie* people—a circumstance which has been particularly noticed in France. Concerning both islands, Mr. Forester interweaves his narrative spcTingly and judiciously with frag- ments of history, which have nowhere tlie charac- ter of digressions. He has related a few local stories which cast much light on the social life of the Corsicans especially A volume of tr.avei Ko original and varied as Mr. Forester’s is a rarity m our days.” Leader LONGMAN, BROWN, and CO., Paternoster Row.