Kgf7 - "" s'“ " IQ REGULATIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY CANDIDATES FOR THE DIPLOMA OF THE $Ujral (Mtge «f OF EDINBURGH. g9&'. £*-. \ ■' EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY ROBERT HARDIE & CO, 20 FREDERICK STREET. 18 5 9,CONTENTS. Notice, ...... Chapter I. Schools op Medicine, .... II. Qualifications of Teachers, III. Course op Study, .... IV. Registration and Certificates, V. Preliminary Examination in Literature and Science, . . . . . YI. Professional Examinations for the Diploma of the College, . VII. Fees, ...... VIII. Special Regulations to be observed by Lecturers in Edinburgh, .... 'page 3 5 4 10 11 13 16 16NOTICE. Surgeons’ Hall, Edinburgh, 16th September 1859. The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, in revising, from time to time, their Regulations respecting the Course of Study to he followed by Candidates for their Diploma, have been uniformly anxious to extend and improve the education of those who receive that testimonial of qualification, so as more effectually to secure that they shall be competent to perform their professional duties with credit to themselves and advantage to the public. In former editions of these Regulations, the College have insisted strongly on the great importance of a liberal education, literary and scientific, as a preparation for the successful pro- secution of the study of Medicine and Surgery ; and they in- vite attention to the 5th Chapter of these Regulations, which they hope will ensure that this very important object shall be attended to by the Student at that period of his course of study which precedes his Medical Curriculum. The reader is requested to observe that, in consequence of the recent changes in the mode of conducting the Examina- tions, it has been necessary to restrict the number of oppor- tunities for undergoing them to four times a-year for the first and six times a-year for the second professional examination. The Diploma of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edin- burgh is recognised as a qualification for Registration under the Medical Act.5 REGULATIONS. CHAPTER I. SCHOOLS OF MEDICINE. 1. Every Candidate for a Surgical Diploma must have followed his Course of Study [Ch. III. 2.] in a University ; or in an Established School of Medicine, as defined below; or in a Provincial School specially recognised by the Col- lege of Surgeons of that division of the United Kingdom in which it is situate. 2. Under the title Established School of Medicine are comprehended the Medical Schools of those cities of Great Britain and Ireland in which Diplomas in Surgery are granted, and such foreign Schools as are similarly cir- cumstanced in the countries in which they exist. 3. Every Candidate for a Surgical Diploma must have passed at least one Winter Session in an established School of Medicine, or at the School of Aberdeen, or at one of the Schools of the Queen’s University in Ireland. CHAPTER II. QUALIFICATIONS OF TEACHERS. 1. The following classes of persons shall be entitled to give Lectures which may be attended as part of the Course6 of Study :—1st, In the Universities of Great Britain and Ireland, in University and King's Colleges, London, in Queen's College, Birmingham, aW in the Queen's Colleges of Cork, Belfast, and Galway, in Ireland,—the Profes- sors of those Institutions. 2d, In Edinburgh, Resident Fellows of the Royal College of Physicians of Edin- burgh, and Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, whose Lectures have been sanctioned in each case by the College to which the Lecturer belongs.* 3d, In London, Fellows and Licentiates of the Royal Col- lege of Physicians of London, and Fellows and Members of the Royal College of Surgeons of England whose status as Teachers has been admitted by those Colleges. A.th, In Dublin, Fellows and Licentiates of King’s and Queen’s College of Physicians in Ireland, and Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. 5th, In Glasgow, Fellows of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow whose lectures have been sanctioned by the Faculty, j* 2. The College will not recognise any course of Lec- tures, delivered subsequently to 1st May 1839, by a Pro- fessor or Teacher who lectures upon more than one of the branches of instruction included in their Curriculum ; nor any Course delivered by a Professor or Teacher who, in addition to the said Course, lectures upon a branch of instruction, medical or general, not included in the Curriculum, unless such Professor or Teacher shall have obtained special leave from the College to do so. * The College enacted, in 1846, Statutes regarding the manner of sanc- tioning Lecturers and Teachers in the Edinburgh School, which is by special examination on their several departments. + The only Lecturers excepted from this Law are those on Chemistry and Botany, who may be persons non-medical, if recognised by the Col- lege after examination by a joint Board with the College of Physicians, in conformity with Statutes enacted in May 1847, and printed sepa- rately.7 3. Notwithstanding the above regulation, the teaching of two branches may be undertaken by one individual, in the following instances, without disqualification being incurred,—viz. Anatomy and Practical Anatomy; Chemistry and Practical Chemistry ; and, further, Clinical Medicine or Clinical Surgery may be taught simultaneously with any one of the other courses of education prescribed in the Curriculum, by a Phy- sician or Surgeon qualified according to the regulations of the Colleges, and attached to a Public Hospital of the size which those regulations prescribe. CHAPTER III. COURSE of study. 1. Preliminary Instruction. — Every Candidate must satisfy the Examiners in Preliminary Education, that he has a competent knowledge of the following branches of study:— 1. The Grammatical Structure of the English and Latin Languages. 2. Elements of Mathematics, including Arithmetic and Algebra. 3. Natural Philosophy ; or, in lieu of this, at the option of the Can- didate, Logic and Mental Philosophy. 4. After August 1861, a knowledge of Greek, or, in lieu of Greek, at the option of the Candidate, French, German, or Italian, will be required. The College will, from time to time, fix on Books as guides for preparation for Examination in the preliminary branches; and intending Candidates will be furnished with lists of these on application. The following branches, though not enjoined, are recommended for study:—Comparative Anatomy, Natural History, Geology. 2. Professional Instruction.—The Candidate must have been engaged in attending the following separate and dis-8 find Courses of Lectures during at least four Winter and three Summer Sessions :— Duration—at least Anatomy, 2 Courses,*...Six months each. Practical Anatomy, Twelve months. Chemistry, 1 Course,... Practical Chemistry, 1 Do. ... (The Number of Pupils in each Class being limited to 25.;) Or Analytical Chemistry, 1 Do. ... Materia Medica, 1 Do.f... Physiology, or Institutes of Medicine,.. 1 Do.J ... ...Six months. Practice of Medicine, 1 Do. ... Clinical Medicine, ...Six montbs.ll Principles and Practice of Surgery,.... 1 Do. ... ...Six months. Clinical Surgery, In addition to the above Courses of Surgery l 1 Do. ... Do ...Six months.|| ...Six months.|| and Clinical Surgery, one Course of either of [ these at the option of the Student. ' 1 Midwifery and the Diseases of Women ) and Children, j 1 Do ...Three months. Medical Jurisprudence, 1 Do. ... ...Three months. Pathological Anatomy, or General ) Pathology, j !i Do. ... ... Three months.^! Botany, l Do ...Three months. Besides the above-mentioned Courses of Lectures, the Can- didate must have attended at least six cases of Labour under the superintendence of a qualified Medical Practi- tioner, either in a recognised Maternity Hospital, or in a * The Two Courses must not be simultaneous. + This Course will be accepted for three or for six months according to the opportunities presented by the School at which the Candidate has studied. i In those Schools of England and Ireland in which two separate Courses of Lectures are delivered at separate hours, one on Anatomy, the other on Anatomy and Physiology, the former of these Courses will be received as one of the two Courses of Anatomy required by the Colleges, and the other as the Course of Physiology, or Institutes of Medicine. II Two Courses of Clinical Medicine of three months each, if not simul- taneous, will be held equivalent to one Course of six months. They must be attended during the period of attendance at the Hospital where they are delivered. The same rules will apply to Clinical Surgery. H This Course will not be imperative on Students who have begun their Medical Studies before the 1st of October 1860.9 Dispensary where Midwifery cases are admitted, or in pri- vate practice; and must produce a certificate to that effect from the Practitioner under whom he attended. He must also have attended, for six months, a course of instruction in Practical Pharmacy, at the Laboratory of a Surgeon or Apothecary, or of a Member of the Pharmaeeutical Society of Great Britain, or of a Chemist and Druggist recognised by the College on special application, or of a Public Hospital or Dispensary. Those who produce certificates of having been, for the space of at least two years, private Pupils or Apprentices to regularly licensed Medical Practitioners keeping Laboratories for dispensing Medicines, shall be held qualified in this branch of in- struction. 3. The six-months’ Courses delivered in Edinburgh or Glasgow must consist of not fewer than 100 Lectures, with the exception of Clinical Medicine and Clinical Sur- gery.. The three-months’ Courses must consist of not fewer than fifty Lectures. 4. The Candidate must also have attended, for twenty- four months, a Public General Hospital containing at an average eighty patients-; or, he must have attended such an Hospital for twenty-one months, and have also at- tended, for six months, the Practice of a Public Dispen- sary specially recognised by the College. 5. The following Order of Study is recommended as a guide to the Student, though not enjoined:— First Year,...Anatomy,—Practical Anatomy,—Chemistry,—Practical or Analytical Chemistry,— Botany, the last either in this or the Second Year— Hospital. Second Year, Anatomy,—Physiology, or Institutes of Medicine,— Surgery,—Materia Medica and Pharmacy, the last either in this or the Third Year,—Hospital. Third Year,...Practice of Physic,—Clinical Surgery,—Practical Ana- tomy,— Practical Pharmacy,—Hospital. Fourth Year, Surgery or Clinical Surgery,—Midwifery and the Diseases of Women and Children,—Clinical Medicine,—Medical Jurisprudence,— Practical Midwifery,—Hospital.10 6. It is strongly recommended to Students to avail themselves of any opportunities which they may possess of attending Lectures on Ophthalmic and Mental Diseases • also on Natural History, Comparative Anatomy, and the use of the Microscope, in addition to the Courses of Lec- tures which are absolutely required. CHAPTER IV. REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATES. 1. A book shall be kept in the Hall of the College, for the Registration, at stated times, of all Medical Students who may apply. In this book all Edinburgh Students who desire to possess the Diploma of the College must enter their names and the Classes which they attend, whether under Professors in the University, or under other qualified Teachers. 2. The Registration shall be conducted by the Con- servator of the Museum, or by a substitute for whom he shall be responsible. He shall enter in separate columns —ls£, The name of each • individual; 2d, The Medical Classes, Hospitals, and Dispensaries attended by each du- ring the current season ; 3d, The names of the Teachers. He shall register such only as apply personally to him, shall examine all the tickets produced by each individual, and shall not register any classes for which tickets are not produced. 3,. Each Student shall pay annually, on his first regis- tration for the year, the sum of Five Shillings, and shall be provided with a ticket of admission to the Museum. 4. The book shall be closed for the registration of the Winter Classes on the 30th of November in each year ; and of the Summer or intermediate Classes, at the end of the second week from their commencement.11 5. When a Student is prevented by sickness, or any other unavoidable cause, from complying with the above regulations, he shall, as soon as the case admits, present a statement of the circumstances, with proper evidence, to the Conservator, to be laid by him before the Registration Committee, who shall report their opinion to the College ; and if the application be sustained, the individual so ap- plying shall be enrolled in the usual manner. 6. The Conservator will attest the registration of the Classes of each session by affixing a stamp to the tickets of those Classes. 7. Certificates of attendance [Ch. VIII. 4.] subscribed by the Teachers will also be required from all Candidates for Surgical Diplomas, in regard to that part of their medical education which they may have received at Edin- burgh. Similar Certificates will be received from any other Schools in which registration-books are kept, in regard to such portions of the Course of Study as the Certificates may embrace. Candidates educated at schools where no registration-books are kept, must produce Certificates from the respective Professors or Lecturers, both of their having entered to their several Classes at an early period of the Course, and also of their having attended those Classes with due regularity. And in the case of Practical Anatomy, the Certificate must express that the Candidate has, during the course of his attendance, been engaged in the Dissection of the human body, under the personal superintendence of the Professor or teacher. CHAPTER Y. PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION IN LITERATURE & SCIENCE. 1. The Preliminary Examination in Literature and Science shall take place in the first week of Novemberand in the first week of May in each year.* This Exa- mination may be taken at any period previous to the first professional examination; but it is strongly recommended that it should be taken before the commencement of the professional education. 2. Testimonials of proficiency granted by the National Educational Bodies, according to the following list, shall be accepted as sufficient evidence of preliminary edu- cation, and shall exempt from all other non-professional examinations:— A Degree in Arts of any University of the United Kingdom, of the Colonies, or of such other Universities as may be specially re- cognised from time to time by the Medical Council. Oxford Responsions or Moderations. Cambridge Previous Examinations. Matriculation Examination of the University of London. Oxford Middle Class Examinations, Senior and Junior. Cambridge Middle Class Examinations, Senior and Junior. Durham Middle Class Senior Examination. Dublin University Entrance Examination. An Examination by any other University of the United King- dom, equivalent to the Middle Class Examinations of Oxford and Cambridge. A Certificate that the Holder has successfully passed the Preliminary Examination of any of the Licensing Bodies under the Medical Act, provided the course of Education and the subjects of Examination be equivalent to those required for the double Qualification. 3. The Preliminary Examination shall be conducted by Special Examiners in Arts to be chosen from time to time by the College, associated with Assessors to be sent by the College. 4. Students who intend to offer themselves for the Preliminary Examination, shall give in their names, addresses, and places of birth to the officer of the College, * For this present year an opportunity will be given for these Exami- nations on the first Saturday in December, as announced in the edition of these Regulations published in March 1859.13 not later than three days before the day of examination, and shall pay a fee of ten shillings, not to be returned in case of rejection. CHAPTER VI. PROFESSIONAL EXAMINATIONS FOR THE DIPLOMA OF THE COLLEGE. 1. Candidates for the Diploma of the College shall be subjected to two Professional Examinations, to be con- ducted at separate sittings, partly in writing and partly orally. FIRST EXAMINATION. 2. The first Examination shall embrace Anatomy, Phy- siology, Chemistry, and Botany; the second, Surgery, Medicine, Midwifery, Materia Medica, and Medical Juris- prudence. 3. The first Examination shall take place not sooner than twenty>one months from the commencement of the Candidate’s attendance on his professional classes. 4. Opportunities for the first examination will be pre- sented four times in each year,—viz. on the third Tuesday in November, and the third Tuesdays in February, May, and August. On these days the Candidates shall assem- ble for writing answers to the questions proposed, and the oral examinations will be conducted on the days im- mediately succeeding. 5. Candidates who desire to pass the first Professional Examination must apply to the Inspector of the Course of Study, on or before the Saturday preceding the day of examination, and must produce registered tickets, and also certificates of attendance in regard to all those Courses of Study which have reference to the subjects of that14 examination. They must also produce evidence of having passed the Preliminary Examination. 6. The sum of £4 must be paid to the Treasurer of the College for this Examination, not later than 10 A.M. of the day preceding it. This sum will be considered as paid to account of the entire fee of £10 payable for the Diploma. 7. In the case of a Candidate being unsuccessful at this Examination, £2 will be returned to him, the re- maining £2 being retained to meet the expense of Exa- mination. SECOND EXAMINATION. 8. The second Examination shall commence on the third Tuesdays in January, March, May, July, and Sep- tember, and the first Tuesday in December. 9. No Candidate shall be admitted to this examination before the termination of his fourth Winter Session. 10 Applications for Examination must be made to the Inspector of the Students’ Course of Study not later than the Saturday previous to the day of examination. 11. Every Candidate must produce to the Inspector, and afterwards to the Treasurer of the College,—ls£, Satisfactory evidence of ‘his having attained the age of twenty-one years ; 2c£, The registered tickets and the cer- tificates of his classes [Chap. IY. §§ 6 and 7]; 3d, A tabular statement (for which a printed form will be fur- nished by the Officer) exhibiting the full amount of his professional education, and distinguishing the Classes, Hospitals, and Dispensaries attended during each session of his studies; and 4th. The certificate of his having passed the first professional examination. If he have been an Apprentice, he must also insert the name of his master, the date of his indenture, and the length of time for which he was bound. This statement, accurately filled up, must be attested by his signature, and will be preserved by the College as a record.15 12. If the Candidate have been an Apprentice to a Fel- low of the College, he must also produce his discharged indenture. 13. On the production of these documents, the Inspector will give the Candidate a letter authorizing the Examiners to take him on trial. 14. The remaining fee payable to the College (being £6) together with the receipt for the fee paid for the first professional examination, must be lodged not later than 10 A. M. of the day preceding the examination-day, in the hands of the Treasurer, who will certify this upon the Inspector’s letter, after examining and being satisfied with the certificates. The sum of £4 will be returned to unsuccessful candidates, whose names will be concealed. 15. Unsuccessful Candidates at either the first or second examination will be remitted to their studies for a period to be determined by the judgment of the Examiners, but not in any case less than three months. 16. Candidates, on showing sufficient reason for it, may be admitted to a special examination, on days other than those appointed above, on paying an extra fee of £4, which will not be returned in the event of their not being successful. 17. In order to test more effectually the practical know- ledge of Candidates, Anatomical and Botanical specimens, articles of the Materia Medica, Chemical tests, the Micro- scope, and Surgical Apparatus, will be employed during the examinations; and every Candidate will be required to write out one or more formulas of prescription. The examination may also consist, in part, of the actual exa- mination of persons labouring under disease.16 CHAPTERVII. FEES. . 1. For the Diploma of the College, £10. 2. For the Certificate of Qualification to act as Assistant- Surgeon in the Navy, when no previous Qualification has been received from the College, £4 :19 : 6. 3. For the Certificate to Assistant-Surgeons of the Royal Navyj of Qualification to act as full Surgeons, £3:18:6 if they have already received Certificates, and £2:17 : 6 if they have previously received the Diploma of the Col- lege. The sums stated above include all Fees of every kind, and the Officer is prohibited from receiving any. Note.—The Fee payable for the Diploma by Apprentices of those who were Fellows of the College prior to the Charter of 1851 is £5. CHAPTER VIII. SPECIAL REGULATIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LECTURERS IN EDINBURGH. 1. Every Lecturer at this School of Medicine shall ascertain, at least twenty-five times in a six-months’ course, and twelve times in a three-months’ course, the actual attendance given by his pupils. 2. He shall do this by calling the name of each pupil at least once a-week, and entering in a regular roll- book the presence or absence of each individual; the Students, of course, being kept in ignorance of the par- ticular days on which this is to be done. 3. The said roll-book shall be kept according to a form prescribed by the College ; shall also be carefully pre-