1A HAND-BOOK OF POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS AND OF MORBID ANATOMY. BY FRANCIS DELAFIELD, M.D. BELLEVUE HOSPITAL, PATHOLOGIST TO THE ROOSEVELT HOSPITAL, ETC., ETC. N E W - Y 0 R K : WILLIAM WOOD & CO., 21 GREAT JONES STREET. 1872.Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by WILLIAM WOOD & CO., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. S. W. Gbebk, Printer, IG and 18 Jacob Street, New-Yorlc.PREFACE. This work is intended to serve as a guide for those persons who may be called upon to perform post-mortem examinations. For most physicians this call is only an occasional one, so that they may feel the need of some hand-book to which they may refer. It is not proposed to offer a complete treatise on Pathological Anatomy, nor on Medical Jurisjjrudence, but rather a work which bears the same relation to them that a dissecting manual does to a complete Anatomy. The book is divided into four parts. The first gives the method of performing autopsies on the bodies of adults and of young chil- dren. The second gives in detail the lesions which have been ob- served in each organ of the body. The third gives the lesions which are found after deaths from general diseases, from violence, and from poisons. The fourth gives a short classification of tumors. FRANCIS DELAFIELD, 12 West Thirty-second street. June, 1872.Digitized by tine Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21906324PA.Il T I. ON THE METHOD OF MAKING POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS.1 OlSr THE METHOD OF MAKING POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, The particular object of making a post-mortem examination varies in different cases. It may be to determine wlietlier a per- son has died from violence or poisoning ; to account for a sud- den death ; or to study the lesions of disease. In any case, the examination should embrace the entire body, not merely the suspected organ, and it should be recorded at the time it is made. It is necessary to be very careful in asserting that a given lesion is or is not a sufficient cause for death. The causes of death, especially of sudden death, are often very obscure. Per- sons who have been suffering from chronic diseases frequently die suddenly without any discoverable cause. At all periods of life, from infancy to old age, we meet with cases of sudden death which we'are imable to account for by the clinical his- tory or the post-mortem examination. In such cases, it is bet- ter to avow our ignorance than to attribute the death to a con- gestion of the brain or a disease of the kidneys—which does not exist. EXTERNAL INSPECTION. Before commencing the examination of the internal viscera, it is always necessary to make some inspection of the external surface of the body. The minuteness of this inspection will de- pend upon the character of the case. In the case of an un-4 POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. known person, or of one wlio is supposed to have died from un- natural causes, it is necessary to search for and record not only all contusions, wounds, etc., their size and situation, but also any physical peculiarities of hair, eyes, moles, etc., by which the person may be identified. In ordinary examinations, we only look for the evidences of external injuries, for skin diseases, ulcers, etc., for oedema, goutj^ deposits, abscesses, enlarged lym- phatic glands, etc. The glans penis and j)repuce are to be care- fully searched for syphilitic cicatrices. It is customary to find certain changes in the external appear- ance of the body, which are due to the cessation of vitality in the tissues and to the commencement of decomposition. I speak now of bodies which have not yet been buried, and which have been kept in the ordinary way, partly covered by a shroud, and lying on their backs in a loosely-covered ooflin. If the bodies have been left in their ordinary clothes, the appearances are much the same. In such bodies, one of the first noticeable changes is the pale- ness of the skin and its mottling with irregular livid patches. After a short time, the blood settles in the vessels of the more dependent portions of the body, and the skin which covers the back of the trunk and extremities becomes of a livid red color. In many cases, if we cut through the skin, we find the tissues beneath congested and infiltrated with.bloody serum. In bodies which have been kept for a number of days in cold wea- ther, this red color of the skin is also seen on the anterior portions of the body, especially the face and neck. In hot weather, the red color is very soon altered by decomposition. If the epidermis has been detached at any point, the skin beneath this is dry, hard, and red. In warm weather, we may find, a few hours after death, broad, bluish lines, corresponding to the cutaneous veins, rami- fying in the skin of the neck and thorax. These lines are formed by the escape of the coloring matter of the blood from the vessels. "Within a few hours after death, even in cold weather, there is usually some escape of frothy blood and mucus from the mouth and nose.MEtHQO OF EXAMIKATIOJT, 5 If tlie eyelids are not closed, the conjunctiva and cornea soon become dry, brown, and hard. The eyeballs also become flaccid. After a considerable length of time, the skin of the abdomen becomes green. Still later, decomposition fairly sets in. The entire body is of a dark green color. The tissnes are infilti-ated with serum. Tlie abdomen is distended with gas. Then the color changes from a green to a reddish brown. The epidermis is detached. The skin is covered with maggots. The entire body is swollen from the formation of gases. The face can hardly be recognized. The nails drop off, and the scalp becomes detached. When a body is in this condition, it can hardly be determined Avhether one month or five months have elapsed since death. After this, all the soft parts change into a formless, putrescent mass. The cavities are open, the viscera are indistinguishable, the bones are left bare. The rapidity with which these changes take place varies under the influence of a great number of conditions. The bodies of infants usually decompose more rapidly than those of adults. Fat bodies putrefy more quickly than lean ones. The bodies of persons who die suddenly from violence decom- pose less rapidly than the average, unless the body is a good deal mangled. Exhausting diseases, fevers, and the puerperal con- dition are followed by rapid decomposition, as is also death from suffocating gases. Poisoning by alcohol, by arsenic, and by sulphuric acid may preserve the bodies for an unusual length of time. Atmospheric air, moisture, and warmth quicken decom- position. At the same temperature, a body which has been for one week in the air, one which has been two weeks in water, and one which has been eight weeks buried in the usual way, will all exhibit the same d^gi'ee of decomposition. The Rigor Mortis.—It is proper to notice whether or not the body is in the condition of post-mortem rigidity. More atten- tion has, perhaps, been given to this particular post-mortem condition than it well deserves. According to Kiihne, the rigor mortis is produced by a change in the nauscular fibres. The fibres first lose their contractility,6 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. tlien there is coagulation of the niyosine, and loss of elasticity ; then the muscular tissue becomes acid. When this acidity has reached its height, the muscle becomes softer, and the rigor mortis gradually disappears. Finally the acid condition is succeeded by an alkaline fermentation, and decomposition ensues. The rigor mortis generally' begins in the muscles of the lower jaw and back of the neck; it then extends to those of the face, neck, thorax, arms, and finally the legs. It usually disappears in the same order. It usually begins in from 8 to 20 hours after death, but often much sooner. The bodies of persons killed on the field of bat- tle, and of those who have been drowned, sometimes seem to be overtaken by the rigor mortis at the very instant of death. The bodies retain the same position and the face the same expres- sion which they had in the last moments of life. The rigor mortis may continue for from one to nine days. Generally, but not always, death from narcotic poisons is fol- lowed by a feeble and short rigidity. It is said that death by lightning is followed by rapid and in- tense rigidity. Casper says that in foetuses born before term he has never observed any rigidity, and that in young children it is feeble and of short duration. It is asserted by some and denied by others that death from suffocation is followed by a short and feeble rigidity. The degree and duration of rigor mortis after death from violence, from different diseases, etc., is stated so variously and so contradictorily by different observers, that no definite rules can be given concerning it. The temperaixi^re of the living body is 98° to 99° F. In consequence of disease, the temperature may be increased several degrees. After death, the body gradually cools to the same point as the surrounding air. This is said to take place in from fifteen to twenty hours. Taylor, from the examina- tion of one hundred bodies, states that the average heat of the skin of the abdomen at a period of two to three hours after death is 77°; at four to six hours, 74:° ; at six to eight hours.7 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. 70°; at twelve hours, 69°. The internal viscera retain their heat longer than the surface of the body. It is said that, after sudden death from accidents, apoplexy, acute disease, and asphyxia, the body retains its heat for an unusually long period. It is both asserted and denied that after death from haemor- rhage the body cools rapidly. The body of an adult cools more slowly than that of a child or of an old person; that of a fat person more slowly than that of a lean one. The more the body is covered up, the less rapidly it cools. In some cases, there is an exceptional retention and even an increase of heat in the dead body. Dr. John Davy reports that in a case of death from rheumatism, after the viscera had been exposed for several minutes, the temperature of the left ventri- cle of the heart was 113°, and that of the liver 112°. In a second case, six hours after death, the temperature of the heart was 108°. It is stated that after death from yellow-fever and cholera the temperature increases for several hours after death. There are also recorded a number of cases in which the body retained its heat for several days without known cause. It will be seen, from what has "been said, that if we are called upon to pronounce iipon the length of time which has elapsed since death in a given case, this is only to be done approximately and probably. It is necessary to take into con- sideration the cause and manner of death, the condition of the individual, the state of the atmosphere, the manner in which the body has been kept after death. And even after making these allowances, we can only say that probably a person has been dead for such or such a time. Contusions.—It is often impoi'tant to determine whether vio- lence has been inflicted on a given body before death. With reference to this point, we must remember in the first place that blows and falls of sufficient violence to fracture the bones and rupture the viscera may leave no marks on the skin, even if the individual has survived for several days. In the second place, there are a number of post-mortem ap- pearances which simulate ante-mortem bruises. If we observePOST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 8 a severe contusion, as it exists during life, Ave see that the injury at first leaves no mark, or only a general redness. After a short time, the injured part is swollen- and of a red color. This color is succeeded by a black and blue, and this again gra- dually fades out into a yellow. All these changes are due to an escape of blood from the vessels, and to subsequent changes in its coloring matter. If, therefore, we cut into such an ecchy- mosis after death, we shall find extravasated blood, or the color- ing matter of the blood in the form of granular pigment in the tissues. Post-mortem discolorations, on the other hand, al- though their external appearance may resemble that of ante- mortem eccliymosis, are not formed by an extravasation of blood, but by a circumscribed congestion of the vessels, or by an escape of blood-stained serum. If we cut into such dis- colorations, therefore, we find no blood oiitside of the vessels. An abrasion of the skin, by wdiicli the epidermis has been rubbed oft', presents the same appearance whether produced be- fore or after death. In either case, the denuded cutis becomes hard, dry, and parchment-like. Blows on the skin of a body which has not been dead for more than two hours may produce true eccliymosis, with ex- travasation of blood, such as can hardly be distinguished from those formed during life. Wounds.—We should notice the situation, extent, and direc- tion of a wound ; the condition of its edges and of the sur- rounding tissues. If it is a deep penetrating wound, a probe or director should be passed into it before it is laid open. If we find the edges of a wound inflamed and suppurating, or commencing to cicatrize, it must have been inflicted some time before death. If a wound has been inflicted a short time before death, its edges are everted; there is extravasation of blood into the surrounding tissues, the vessels contain coagula, or all these signs may be absent. Tlie chief characters of a wound inflicted after death are absence of bleeding, non- retraction of the edges of the wound, and no extravasation of blood. A wound inflicted within two hours after death resem- l)les more closely one inflicted during life. In general, ujiless a wound is old enough for its edges to present inflammatoryMETHOD OF EXAMINATIOJT. 9 changes, we must be very careful in asserting its ante-mortem or post-moi'tem character. Fractures.—It may be important to determine whether a bone was fractm'ed before or after death. This point cannot always be decided. Generally a much greater degree of force is necessary to fracture bones in the dead than in the living body. Fractures inflicted during life are, as a rule, attended with more extravasation of blood and evidences of reaction in the surrounding tissues. But fractures inflicted within a few hours after death may resemble these very closely. Scars.—The presence of cicatrices and their appearance should be noticed. Scars produced by an actual loss of sub- stance, or by a granulating wound, never disappear entirely. Slight and superficial wounds, however, produce marks which are not permanent. The discolorations produced by tattooing may fade away during life. Not infrequently tattoo marks, which were observed during life, can no longer be found aftei- death, INTERNAL EXAMINATION. In making the internal examination, it should be our object to make it both as thoroughly and as rapidly as possible. In order to do this, we must follow a regular method. It is always necessary to examine not merely the particular organs in which we expect to find lesions, but also all the other viscera. If this is not done, we are always liable to fall into grave errors. After completing the external inspection of the body, we commence the internal examination. Tliis is best done in the following order: The Head.—The scalp is divided by an incision across the vertex from ear to ear. The flaj)s are directed forward and backward, taking up the temporal muscles with the skin and leaving the pericranium attached to the bone. The internal surface of the scalp and the pericranium are to be examined for ecchymoses and inflammatory lesions. A circular incision is then made with the saw and the roof of the cranium removed. The incision in front should pass through a point three and a half inches above the root of the nose, behind through the occi- pital protuberance.10 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. If fracture of the cranium is suspected, the hones should he sawn entirely through. If not, it is sufficient to saw partly through and then separate the calvarium with the chisel. AVlien the roof of the cranium is thus entirely loosened, a large hook is introduced \inder the upper edge of the calvarium, and this is wrenched off with a sudden jerk. Sometimes the dura mater is so adherent to the roof of the skull that the latter cannot be torn from it. "We must then cut through the dura mater at the level of the incision in the bones, and take out the brain with the calvarium. When the calvarium is removed, we notice whether or not it is symmetrical. The cranial bones normally increase in size by a growth of bone at the edges of the sutures. If any suture becomes completely ossified and closed before the others, the bones will be unequally developed. Thus an early closure of the sagittal suture produces a long, nari'ow craniiim, etc. The thickness of the cranium and its density vary very con- siderably within the limits of health. There are often deep depressions on the inner surface of the skull along the sagittal suture, caused by the pressure of the pacchionian bodies. "We observe the degree of congestion of the bone, the exis- tence of fractures and of inflammatory lesions. The Dura Mater is now exposed to view. It will be found more or less adherent to the calvariurn, A moderate degree of adherence, especially in old persons, does not denote disease. "V^ery extensive and firm adhesions are usually produced by in- flammation. Jfear the median line the pacchionian bodies often project through the dura mater. "We must look for clots, for new growths, and for inflammatory lesions on the outer surface of the dura mater. The longitudinal sinus should be laid open with the scissors, and its contents examined. A circular incision is then made through the dura mater, in a line corresponding with the iaeision through the skull, the falx is entirely divided between the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, and the entire membrane drawn back. "We notice the existence of adhesions to tlie pia mater, of clots, of the products of inflammation, and of new growths. The Pia Mater is now exposed, covering the convex surface ofMETHOD OF EXAMINATIOiST, 11 tlie brain. The degree of congestion and the existence of serum, pus, pr blood beneath or in tlie pia mater, are to be ascertained at this time, before the brain is removed. The pia mater in old persons loses its transparency and becomes thick and white; this change is most marked along the longitudinal fissure and the large vessels. It is a simple senile change, but is frequently mistaken for an inflammatory lesion. Marked and general thickening of the pia mater, however, is produced by chronic inflammation. Along the longitudinal flssure, and sometimes at a distance from it, we find little whitish, wart-like bodies. These are the pacchionian bodies, which are found normally in adult life. The amount of serum beneath the pia mater varies. A con- siderable amount, especially in cachectic persons, may exist without brain disease. Clear serum lifting iip the pia mater and separating the convolutions of the brain may be simply dropsical or due to chronic meningitis. Turbid and purulent serum beneath and in the pia mater are produced by acute meningitis. The Brain.—After examining the convex surface of the brain, the anterior lobes of the cerebrum are to be pulled gently backward, the cranial nerves and the tentorium divided, the medulla oblongata cut across as low down as possible, and the brain thus removed from the cranium. The adult brain weighs, in the male, from 46 to 53 oz.; in the female, from 41 to 47 oz. Besides the lobes and fissures of the brain, it is important to notice the convolutions and sulci, in order to note the exact situation of any lesion. The brain is first laid on its convex surface, and the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, the basilar, and the car- otids examined for emboli, thrombi, and atheroma. Extravasa- tions of blood, new growths, and inflammatory lesions are also to be looked for. The brain is then turned over on its base. An incision is made through the pia mater, over the convex surface of the cerebrum ; this membrane is stripped up, and its adherence to the brain, its thickness and general appearance are noticed. The two halves of the cerebrum are then to be gently separated until the superior surface of the corpus callosum isPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 12 c Side View op the Brain. F. Anterior lobe. S. Fissure of Sylvius. C. Sulcus centralis, or fissure O. Posterior lobe. S'. Horizontal branch. of Rolando. T, Middle lobe. S". Vertical branch. A, Anterior cent, convolution. B. Posterior cent, convolution. F', F=, F'. First, Second, and Third Frontal Convolutions, f, P, P. Superior, Inferior, and Vertical Frontal Sulci. P'. Postero-parletal Lobule. P''. Inferior Parietal Lobule. P^. Angular Gyrus. i p. Inter-parietal Sulcus, p o. Parieto-occipital Fissure. O', 0\ 03. First, Second, and Third Occipital Convolutions. o'. Transverse Occipital Sulcus, o-. Inferior, Lonpitudinal, Occipital Sulcus. T'. T=, T'. First, Second, and Third Temporal Convolutions. t' t^. First and Second Temporal Sulci. exposed. An incision is then made tlirougli the junction of the corpus callosuni and cerebrum, cutting outward and down- ward, into eacli lateral ventricle. This incision should be made carefully, so as not to cut through the ventricles into the ganglia below. The incision, thus made through the roof of each ven- tricle, is prolonged backward and forward, in the direction of the cornua, until the entire cavity of each lateral ventricle is exposed. A long incision outward and downward is then made into each half of the cerebrum, from the outer edge of13 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. tlie lateral ventricles, nearly to the pia mater. A second inci- sion is then made from this cut surface outward, and this is re- peated until the cerebrum is divided into a number of long prismatic-shaped pieces held together by the pia mater. The velum interpositum is then dissected up, and the fourth ventri- cle opened. To complete the examination, cross-sections are made through all the large ganglia, the medulla, and the cere- bellum. Care must be taken not to overlook small clots in the medulla oblongata. The Base of the Cranium.—We now return to the skull. The remaining sinuses of the dura mater should be opened. This membrane is then to be entirely stripped off from the bone. The bone is to be examined for fractures, inflammatory lesions, and new growths. The Eyes can be removed by comminuting the roof of the orbit with a hammer, removing the fragments of bone, dissect- ing away the fat and muscles, so as to expose the optic nerve and posterior half of the eye. With a pair of scissors we can then cut away that portion of the globe which is not covered by conjunctiva, and remove it with the optic nerve. The anterior portion of the globe with the cornea is left in place. The nerve and portion of the eye removed are to be placed at once in Miiller's fluid. The Sjpinal Cord.—The examination of the spinal cord may, in many cases, be dispensed with. AVhen it is necessary, it is most conveniently performed after the removal of the brain. The body should be placed face downward, with a block im- der the thorax, and the head dropping over the edge of the table. An incision is made through the skin and muscles along the entire length of the spine, and the soft parts dissected off on each side, so as to expose the laminae of the vertebral col- umn. The laminte are then divided close to the articulating processes, with the rachitome, the saw and chisel, with a sharp chisel, or with strong cutting forceps. The spinous processes and lamijise are then torn away together, and the cord exposed. The membranes of the cord may be found very considerably congested without indicating the preexistence of any disease. The roots of the spinal nerves are then to be cut across, and14 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. the cord removed in its membranes, care being taken not to press it in any way. It is the safest plan not to grasp tlie cord itself, but with a forceps to seize the dura mater, and thus lift up the cord. The dura mater is then laid open with scissoi^s over the entire length of the cord. If disease of the cord is suspected, and no lesions are to be seen with the naked eye, the cord should always be preserved for microscopical examination. For this purpose, it should be cut into pieces an inch long; these pieces are then loosely tied in tlieir order with a cord, and suspended in a jar containing a solution of Potass. Bichrom., gr. xv. to 1 ^ of water. After re- maining in this for 10 days, the cord should be removed to a solution of Ac. Chromic, gr. ij to 3 1 of water, and remain in this until hard enough to be cut into thin sections. After the removal of the cord, fractures and displacements of the vertebrae are easily recognized. The Thorax and Ahdomen.—To examine these cavities the body is replaced on its back. A single straight incision is made from the top of the sternum to the pubes. For this purpose, a large scalpel should be used, and the first incision should divide every thing down to the sternum and peritoneum. A short incision should then be made through the peritoneum; into this opening two fingers of the left hand are introduced, and the peritoneum divided from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. The skin and muscles are then dissected oft" from the thorax on both sides as far back as the false ribs. In doing this, we notice the amount of subcutaneous fat and the condi- tion of the miiscles. The abdominal cavity is now exposed, and we have first to notice the position of the viscera. The Liver is situated in the right hypochondriac region, filling up the concavity of the diaphragm. Its xipper border reaches in the linea mammalis to the fifth intercostal space; in the linea axillaris, to the seventh intercostal space; close to the vertebral column, to the tenth intercostal space. At the median line the upper border of tlie liver corresponds to the lower border of the heart. The left lobe extends about three inches to the left of the median line. The lower border of the15 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. right lobe usually reaches to the free border of tlie ribs, while the left lobe is visible for about an inch below the ensiforni cartilage. In women, the liver is usually lower than in men. The position of the liver is altered by changes in the tho- racic cavity, forcing it downward ; by changes in the abdomi- nal cavity, forcing it upward; by constriction of the waist by tight lacing, forcing it either downward or upward; by chan- ges in the size of the organ itself. The liver may be not only displaced downward, but dislo- cated so that its convex surface faces the abdominal wall, and its posterior edge faces upward against the diaphragm. The Stomach is situated in the left hypochondriac and epi- gastric regions, extending also into the right hypochondrium. It lies in part against the anterior wall of tlie abdomen, and in part beneath the liver and diaphragm, and above the transverse colon. Its anterior surface, which is directed upward and for- ward, is in contact above with the diaphragm and the under surface of tlie liver, and lower down with the abdominal Avail, opposite to the epigastric region. Its posterior surface is turned downward and backward, and rests upon the transverse meso- colon, the pancreas and the gi'eat vessels. Tlie lesser curvatm*e or upper border has attached to it the gastro-phrenic ligament and gastro-hepatic omentum. To the greater curvature, or lower border, is attached the gastro-colic omentum. Its cardiac orifice terminates in the oesophagus, its pyloric end in the duodenum. "When the stomach is distended, the greater curvature is elevated and carried forward, the anterior surface is turned upward, and the posterior surface downward. The organ when distended with food or gas, is prominent; when empty, may be hardly seen ; when the intestines are di- lated, may be entirely covered by them. The Transverse Colon passes from one side of the abdomen to the other through the upper part of the umbilical region. It may be lower than the umbilicus, or high up against the liver and diaphragm. It may be distended with gas or con- tracted. The Omentum should be found smoothly spread over the16 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. surface of the small intestines, bnt may be rolled up and dis- placed in a variety of positions, or may be adherent at some point. It is convenient at this stage of the examination to look over the peritoneal cavity for serum, or inflammatory lesions, and to notice the existence of invagination, incarceration, or hernias of the intestines. If the existence of air or gas in the pleural cavities is sus- pected, the abdominal cavity should be filled with water and the diaphragm punctured below the level of the fluid. If any air be present, it will escape in bubbles through the water. The Thorax.—We now leave the abdominal viscera in place, and proceed to the examination of the thorax. With a costatome, or a strong knife, the costal cartilages are divided close to the ribs, the clavicles are disarticulated from the sternum, and the latter removed, taking care not to wound the large veins. We first examine the position of the heart and lungs. The Hearty covered with the pericardium, extends vertically from the second intercostal space to the sixth cartilage, and transversely from a little within the left nipple to about half an inch to the right of the sternum. The apex of the lieart is opposite to the fifth intercostal space, about 3^ inches from the middle of the sternum. From the fifth intercostal space to the upper edge of the fourth cartilage, the heart is covered by the lungs. The portion of the heart uncovered by tlie lungs is of an irregularly triangular shape. The vertical side of the tri- angle is 2 inches, the horizontal 2|, and the oblique 3 inches in length. The area of tlie heart which is found uncovered will vary very much according to the degree in which the lungs collapse after death. Any disease which diminishes the size of the lungs, or any pleuritic adhesions Avliich retract or bind down the lungs, may increase the area of exposed heart. On the other hand, emphysema, pneumonia, or any disease which increases the size of, or retains the air in, the lungs, may dimin- ish the area of ex'posed heart. The pericardium is now opened by a vertical incision on its anterior surface. The existence of serous, fibrinous, or purulent exudation, and of adhesions, arc17 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. to be noticed. A small amount of clear serum exists normally in the pericardial sac, ^nd this serum may be blood-stained from commencing decomposition. White thickenings of the pericardium on the anterior surface of the right ventricle are often seen ; they do not indicate disease. Now that the pericardial sac is opened, the position of the heart can be clearly seen. It lies transversely in the chest, its long axis at an angle of 60° with that of the thorax. The por- tion of the heart which is first seen is the anterior surface of the right ventricle; upward and to the right of this is the right auricle, which lies f on the right side of the sternum, and -J- be- hind it. Its upper border usually corresponds with the plane of the middle of the anterior end of the second intercostal space on the right side. Its size varies with the amount of blood it happens to contain. The left auricle lies behind the root of the pulmonary artei'y, so that only its appendix is visible. The middle of the auricle corresponds to the third costal cartilage. Of the left ventricle only a narrow rim is seen on the left side of the right ventricle. The opening of the tricuspid valve corresponds to the sternal end of the fourth cartilage, behind the left half of the sternum. The pulmonary valve is behind the left edge of the sternum, at the middle of the anterior end of the second intercostal space. , The mitral valve is just above the upper edge of the third left cartilage, near the left edge of the sternum, behind and be- low the edges of the pulmonary valves. The aortic valve is just below the sternal end of the third left cartilage. The heart should now be removed unopened, by cutting through the vessels at its base, after first passing the hand over the arch of the aorta to ascertain whether any aneurism is pre- sent. To determine the sufiiciency of the aortic and pulmonary valves, a full stream of water is poured into the aorta and pul- monary artery, and we observe how well the valves support the column of fluid. To ascertain the sufiiciency of the mitral and tricuspid valves, the auricles are first laid open so as to expose the upper surfaces of the valves. A large pipe is passed through the aorta or pulmonary artery beyond their valves, and 218 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. a moderate stream of water allowed to flow into the ventricles. The auriculo-ventricular valves will be swollen outward, and we can observe the degree of their sufiiciency. The tricuspid valve is normally somewhat insuflicient. To ascertain the size of the different valvular openings, we introduce one or more fingers, held flat and with their edges in contact, into each of the orifices, and then measure the width of the fingers at the point where they fill the orifice. In this way we find that, the aortic valve measures about 1 inch; the mitral valve, If inches; the pulmonary valve, 1^ inches ; the tricuspid valve, 2 inches. In order to examine the interior of the heart, we first make an incision through the anterior wall of the right ventricle, close to the septum, and reaching to the apex of the ventricle; through this opening the blade of the enterotome is passed into the pulmonary artery, and the ventricle and artery laid open. "With a little care, the incision may be made to pass through one of the points of junction of the pulmonary valves. The ventricle may be empty, or contain fluid blood, or red clots, or succiilent yellow clots, or firm whitish clots, either free or at- tached to the heart-wall. The succulent yellow clots are very common; they are sometimes intimately entangled with the trabeculse of the ventricular wall; tliey are not a pathological condition, but are found in persons dying in every way; they ai'e formed after death or during the last moments of life. Tlie condition of the pulmonary valves, of the endocardium, and the thickness and appearance of the wall of the ventricle are then noticed. The left ventricle is then opened and examined in the same way, by an incision through its anterior wall close to the septum. We sometimes see the endocardium of the upper part of the left ventricle thick and wliite, without the existence of valvular lesions, or any clinical histoi'y of disease. To com- plete the examination of the cavities, the enterotome is passed into each ventricle and auricle, and an incision made from the apex of each ventricle through its outer border, and the outer border of the corresponding auricle. In this way the auriculo- yentricular valves are fully displayed.19 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. After removing the blood, the heart should finally be weighed. In adults, the normal average weight of the heart is, in males, 10 oz.; in females, 8 oz. The average relative weight to that of the body is, in males, 1 : 158 ; in females, 1 : 149. Accord- ing to Bizot, the thickness of the wall of the left ventricle is, in males, 7-16 in.; in females, 5-16 in.; of the right ventricle, in males, 3-16 in.; in females, 2-16 in. Males. Females. The diameter in French lines of the mitral valve is 45 17-30 41 1-3 " " " tricuspid valve is 54 12-61 48 14 aortic valve is 31 15-61 28 4-5 " pulmonary valve is 32 21-61 30 7-60 Generally speaking, the size of the heart corresponds to the size and development of the individual. In judging of an increase or decrease in its size, we must consider the weight of the organ and the thickness of its walls. If the patient dies while the heart is contracted, the walls of the ventricle will appear thicker,, their cavities smaller than usual. If the patient die of some exhausting disease, like typhoid fever, or if decomposition has commenced, the heart-walls will be flabby, and the cavities will appear larger than usual. The Pleural Gmities are now examined. The hand is passed into each, and the existence of serous or fibrinous exudation, or of old adhesions, are ascertained. The method of ascertaining the presence of air has already been given. The Lungs.—Each lung is now lifted up in turn, the vessels, etc., at its base divided, and the organ removed. If the pleura is very adherent, it is better to strip oiF the costal pleura with the lung. After inspecting the external surface of the lung, we proceed to open the bronchi. For this purpose, we use a pair of scissors with long, narrow, blunt-pointed blades, one blade a little longer than the other. The lung is held in the- left hand, with its base upward. We first open the large bronchi which run on the inner side of the lower lobe; then the other bronchi of the lower lobe ; and afterward those of the upper lobe. Each bronchus should be followed to its termina- tion, and then its different branches opened. In the larger and middle-sized bronchi, the cartilage in their-POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 20 walls does not form a continuous coat, but appears like irregular white patches, visible from the internal surface of the bronchi. This appearance must not be mistaken for a morbid change. In bodies which have been dead for several days, especially in cold weather, the bronchial mucous membrane may be red and swollen as a post-mortem change. The contents of the stomach sometimes find their way after death into the pharynx, and then down into the trachea and bronchi, giving to them a peculiar brownish or even gangrenous appearance. Bronchitis which has existed during life does not always leave lesions which can be appreciated after death. After the examination of the bronchi, the lung is turned over, the vessels, etc., at its root grasped with the left hand, and a long, deep incision made from the apex to the base. "We observe the appearance and texture of the lungs, whether the air-cells are dilated, (emphysematous,) or filled with serum, blood, or inflammatory exudation. All fluids can be pressed out of the air-cells without breaking down the lung tissue. Solid inflammatory exudation, on the other hand, renders the lung more resistant and easily broken down. It is the rule to find the lower lobes much more congested than the upper. To examine the lungs microscopically, we make sections ot the fresh lung with a double-bladed knife; or small pieces of the lung are placed in alcohol, (95 per cent,) and kept there, changing the alcohol from time to time, until they are hard enough to be cut with a razor. The Pharynx^ Larynx, and (Esophagus.—If these organs are to be examined, we prolong the incision in the thorax to a point one inch below the chin. The soft parts are dissected ofi" from the larynx, taking care not to cut the thyroid body, an incision is made through the floor of the mouth, following the internal surface of the inferior maxilla. Thi'ough this incision, the fingers are introduced into the mouth, the tongue drawn down, the posterior wall of the pharynx divided above the tonsils, and the pharynx and larynx thus drawn out together. These or- gans are then seized with the left hand and dragged downward, .and, with the aid of the knife, the entire length of the trachea21 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. and oesophagus are torn out, cutting the oesophagus just above the stomach. If the contents of the stomach are to be preserved, a ligature is placed around the oesophagus just below the point at which it is cut off. We now with the enterotome slit up the pharynx and oeso- phagus on their posterior surfaces. The mucous membrane thus exposed is examined for evidences of caustic poisons, of inflam- mation, of new growths, strictures, etc. The enterotome is then introdiiced into the larynx, and this organ and the trachea are laid open by an incision through their posterior walls. Here we look for oedema of the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds, (oedema glottidis,) and for the evidences of catarrhal, croupous, ulcerative, and syphilitic inflammation, l^ew growths of various kinds, and diseases of the laryngeal cartillages are also met with. CEdema and redness of the larynx may be produced by post-mortem changes, especially in bodies which have been kept for several days in cold weather. To preserve the larynx and trachea for microscopical examina- tion, I have obtained the best results by suspending them in a jar, containing equal parts of alcohol and of a solution of Potass. Bichrom., gr. xv. to the 11 of water. The proportion of alco- hol is to be afterward increased until the mucous membrane is hard enough to be cut into thin sections. T7te Abdomen.—We now return to the abdominal cavity. We first dissect oflf the omentum. If tubercles of the peritoneum exist, they are best seen and studied in the omentum. The colon is then raised up and dissected free, to the coecum on one side, and to the rectum on the other. The colon and small intestines are then drawn first to the right and then to the left side, so as to expose in turn the left and right kidneys. As each kidney is brought into view, an incision is made through the peritoneum over the track of the ureter. The ureter is then followed out from the kidney to the bladder and its condition ascertained. The Kidneys are then removed, separating the peritoneum and fat from them with the hand and dividing the vessels with the knife. At the same time we remove the suprarenal cap- sules, which are attached to the upper end of each kidney.22 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Each kidney in turn is then taken up. An incision through the capsule is made along the convex edge of the kidney, and this membrane stripped off from it. We notice the degree of adhe- rence of the capsule to the kidney, and also the surface of the latter, whether smooth or roughened, pale or congested. An incision is then made along the convex surface down to the pel- vis, so that the organ is divided into two halves. We observe the relative thickness of the cortical and pyramidal portions, as well as the size of the entire organ. To ascertain the latter point, it is well to weigh each kidney: the normal weight is from 4:^ to 6 oz. It is necessary to remember, however, that in a kidney which is a good deal atrophied there may be an in- crease of fat in the pelvis, which gives the organ nearly its nor- mal size and weight, while the kidney tissue proper has really in great measure disappeared. We now inspect more closely the kidney tissue, especially the cortical portion. It is well known that the pyramids consist of tubes running nearly in straight lines from the apex to the base of each pyramid. These straight tubes pass from the pyra- mids into the cortex in bundles, retaining their straight course until they nearly reach the surface of the kidney, then bending over on each side, become convoluted and end in malpighian bodies. In this way, the cortex of the kidney is divided up into alternate bands of straight and convoluted tubes, both sets of bands being perpendicular to the surface of the kidney. About the convoluted tubes is a rich venous plexus, and as the blood usually remains after death in this plexus and in the malpighian bodies, the bands containing the convoluted tubes appear red, while those containing the straight tubes are grayish white. In a normal kidney, therefore, the cortex should be regularly striped in red and white bands. If there be extensive conges- tion, the entire cortex is red. If the epithelium of the tubes degenerates and fills them up, or if there are changes in the interstitial tissue, the regular bands are lost and the cortex is irregularly mottled. If the tubal epithelium becomes filled with oil globules, this is indicated by an opaque yellow color of the parts affected. In many cases, therefore, the existence of kid- ney disease can be recognized with the naked eye. To deter-23 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. mine the presence of waxy degeneration, the cut surface of the kidney is washed with water to get rid of the blood, and then brushed repeatedly with an aqueous solution of Iodine. The malpighian bodies and blood-vessels are the parts usually affected by the degeneration. If they are so affected, they will appear as red dots and lines on a yellow ground. Sometimes a whitish fluid is seen in the pelvis and can be squeezed from the papillae: this is produced by a post-mortem desquamation of the epithelium. If there be any doubt as to the condition of the kidneys, microscopical examination is necessary. For this purpose, we make sections of the fresh kidney with a double-bladed knife, or the organ is frozen and sections made with a razor, or it may be preserved and hardened in a solution of Potass. Bi- chromate, or in alcohol. The condition of the tubal epithelium is best seen in fresh sections, or in sections from specimens har- dened in alcohol and examined in glycerine ; that of the inter- stitial tissue in Bichromate or alcohol preparations stained with carmine. Sections are absolutely necessary even to ascer- tain the condition of the epithelium. For not only is the epi- thelium of the tubes in the pyramids different from that of those in the cortex, but in the cortex the epithelium of the straight tubes differs from that of the convoluted tubes. In the straight tubes, the epithelium is regular, the edges of each cell and its nucleus well marked, and its body only slightly granular. In the convoluted tubes, the epithelium looks like a mass of granular matter, in which nuclei are imbedded at regular intervals. The Suprarenal Capsules are, in the foetus of an ovoid, in the adult, of a triangular shape. They are situated at the upper and inner border of the kidney, to which they are loosely or closely fitted. Their size varies. In the adult, the transverse diameter is from 40 to 55 mm. ; the vertical, 20 to 35 mm. ; their thickness is from 2 to 6 mm. They weigh from 8 to 120 grains. In new-born children, their weight is to that of the kidney as 1.3 ; in the adult, as 1.28. They are composed of a cortical and a medullary portion, the cortex forming a shell around the medula. They are inclosed24 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS, in a fibrous capsule, from which fibrous processes extend into the cortex. The cortex consists of two layers : an outer yellow layer, and an inner thin, reddish-brown layer. Next to the capsule is a thin layer of polygonal and rounded nucleated cells, arranged in rounded groups. To the inside of this is a broad layer of poly- gonal, cuboid, or rounded nucleated cells, arranged in parallel rows or in long follicles. The long axes of the rows, or follicles, are at right angles to the surface of the organ. The inner layer of the cortex is composed of the same cells closely packed in a stroma with fine meshes. The medullary portion consists of a delicate fibrous reticulum, in the meshes of which are cells. The cells are very fragile, of polygonal or stellate shape. They are arranged in groups, or are irregularly contained in the stroma. The blood-vessels are very numerous ; they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, the coeliac, and the renal arteries. The nerves are also very abundant. They are derived from the semi-lunar ganglion, the plexus renalis, the phrenic, and the vagus. They are especially numerous in the medullary portion. Ganglion cells are found in the course of the nerves in the medullary portion. It is very common to find the suprarenal capsules changed by decomposition. The inner layer of the cortex softens and breaks down, so that the outer layer of the cortex forms a sort of cyst filled with a reddish-brown, broken-down material. The cells of the cortex usually show a considerable degree of fatty degeneration. The Spleen is next to be examined. It is ah organ of ellipti- cal, flattened shape, slightly curved on its flat surface. It is situated on the left side of the stomach, with its long axis ver- tical. Its convex surface is in contact with the diaphragm ; from its concave surface, or hilus, its vessels are given ofi". Its long diameter reaches from the seventh intercostal space to the eleventh rib. Its upper portion is separated from the ribs by the lungs ; its lower portion by the diaphragm. Its normal length is from 4|- to 5^ inclies ; its breadth from Z\ to 4 inches ; its thickness, 1\ to If inches. It weighs from 8 to25 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. 10^ ounces. But these measurements and "weights may vary- considerably within the limits of health. The spleen is inclosed in a fibrous capsule covered with peritoneum. The parenchyma is made up of a stroma formed of blood-vessels and fibrous tissue, and of a soft, reddish pulp, in which are imbedded white, rounded bodies—the malpighian bodies. In the human spleen, the malpighian bodies are usually hardly perceptible to the naked eye. Sometimes they are very plain. Sometimes the fibrous stroma is very apparent; sometimes not. The size, consistence, and color of the organ may vary a good deal without any known cause. Decomposition softens it. Thickenings of the capsule and adhesions are very common. The Intestines.—If the intestines require careful examination, we divide the rectum, seize the gut with the left hand, and, keeping it on the stretch, separate it from its attacliments by repeated incisions until we reach the duodenum, where the in- testine is again cut ofi; The entire length of the intestines is then laid open with the enterotome along their attached border, the mucous membrane is cleansed with a stream of water and then examined. The ordinary lesions are catarrhal, croupous, and ulcerative inflammation, perforations, strictures, new growths, and waxy degeneration. Caution is necessary in distinguishing normal from abnormal congestion. A very considerable amount of congestion may exist without disease. In cholera seasons, especially, observers are prone to call the most moderate degrees of congestion abnormal. For a more superficial examination, the intestines need not be removed. We can slit up the lower end of the ileum and the colon and rectum, and examine them in place. The intestines can be preserved for minute examination by cutting them into pieces a few inches long and suspending them in a solution of Potass. Bichrom. (gr. xv. to the | i) and alcohol, equal parts. The Stomach and Duodenum.—We now introduce the ente- rotome into the duodenum in its transverse portion, and open it on its convex border. When we reach the pylorus, the incision26 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. is carried on along the greater curvature of the stomach as far as the oesophagus. (If poisoning is suspected, a ligature should be placed on the lower end of the oesophagus, and at the middle of the small in- testines, and these organs removed unopened. They are then to be opened in a clean glass jar, and after inspection of the mucous membrane, both stomach and contents are to be deliv- ered to the chemist for examination.) We now look for the orifice of the bile-duct, which will be found about the middle of the descending portion of the duo- denum near the lower part of its concave border. Pressure on the gall bladder will cause the bile to flow into the intestine, if the ducts are pervious. A long director is then passed into the bile-duct and up into its hepatic branch, and the duct laid open. It is said that if the upper part of the duct is stained by the bile, while its duodenal extremity is not stained, this may indicate the existence of an inflammatory swelling of the duodenal portion during life sufiicient to obstruct the flow of bile into the intestine. The mucous membrane of the duodenum and stomach are now washed ofi" and examined. Acute inflammation from caustic poisons, chronic catarrhal inflammation, hemorrhage, ulcers, and new growths are the lesions most frequently met with. In hos- pital patients, we sometimes find a difiiised congestion of the stomach exactly like that produced by an irritant poison, as a result of small doses of croton-oil given just before death. The stomach can be preserved entire if hung in a large jar in a mixtxire of equal parts of alcohol and Sol. Potass. Bichrom. The Liver.-—To remove the liver, we first divide the diaphragm on either side as far back as the spine. The liver is then drawn downward and the broad ligament and the right and left lateral ligaments divided. It is then turned backward into the thoracic cavity, the stomach and duodeniuxi are seized and dis- sected off', the vessels on its under surface divided. The liver can then be lifted up, the coronary ligament and remaining vessels dissected away, and the organ removed. To determine the actual size of the organ, it should be both measured and weighed. The size of the liver varies greatly in27 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. different healthy individuals, but usually bears a relation to the size of the body. According to Frerichs, the relative weight of the liver to that of the body, in healthy adults, varies from one twenty-fourth to one fortieth. The absolute weight is from 1.8 to 4.6 lbs. avoird. In children, the relative weight of the liver is greater. The table on page 28 is taken from Frerichs. The liver is increased in size and weight during the second stage of digestion; it is diminished in starvation, and is in- creased by congestion from any cause. The surface of the liver is now examined, then the organ is laid on its lower surface and several long and deep incisions made transversely from the convex surface downward. After examining the liver tissue, the gall bladder is opened, and the character of the bile and the presence of biliary calculi noticed. We often find the surface of the liver of a greenish or black- ish color. Less frequently this abnormal color extends into the substance of the organ. This color is produced by the action of sulphuretted hydrogen on the coloring matter of the blood. In some cases we find granules of black pigment, especially along the course of the blood-vessels. These granules are composed of sulphate of iron. They are produced by the combination of sulphuretted hydrogen with the iron of the blood. Their cha- racter can be demonstrated by treating them first with hydro- chloric acid and then with a solution of ferrocyanide of potash. After the addition of the latter solution, a blue color is pro- duced. This entire process is a post-mortem one. The Pancreas should now be examined. This organ is of oblong shape, flattened from before backward, its right ex- tremity or head is broad, its left extremity or tail is narrow, the intermediate portions or body tapers between the two. Its length is from 6 to 8 inches, its breadth \\ inches, and its thickness from -g- to 1 inch. Its weight is from 2 to 6 oimces. The organ may be rounded instead of flattened, the head and tail may be disproportionately large. The tail may be prolong- ed or may divide into several processes, or be curved. At the position of the mesenteric artery and vein, the pancreas isPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Hl5 35 Q) *Q} .4 CO tH rH iH r-l i-H 1-1 ©> CO • '©((NOOCOeO g ■ rH T-i T~i ^ ©» ©) CO• • CO Tj< lo in in • 0< • i-t rH C» 1-1 i-H r-i « CO • -(N-^COCOCO - ■ w o» T-H « « Tj<-tr CO ■ . Tf o in ■'t lO • ■ffJCO«(?*0*0*C<COCOSD • '^t-t-t-t- tO t- QD IC • to -a aoic^DomioxiT-iiOoot-cot-ooTrocnn GQrT*;SO-^Tti-tfN.-HQ0t-Oi7*Ol-C>a;t-O 5* M CO CT* T-i CO C> i-H Tf CO CO CO CO O O O Q T-i ^ O T-. ffi -"t O W 03 »n iQ lO w OOOOOOOOOi-ii-d-.WO'-'CiT-.i-i'rH ooooooooooooooooooo iftcDOiOT-tirtT-iowcoocoinoorHT-iiom o I- X -* <b to 1-1 CO 00 »o o ys' a: t- o o « cq c<c<T-^iT5'?*w«c^coi-t(r*Tj'(NcocOT3--rcoTr' (jflioo CD CO in CO o c CO :oco»f3ioxocs'raxt~- t- t^OOodoOOOOOo'i-Ii-c'OrHT-ii-IrHO qI- COClSO-^COt-OiCOQOQOlOOOiniNiCiOTH J^Oi-<C<rHr-tCO(?ii-«Q6cd"' 8- - ia^ P -dS ° 2 ° 2 tt. ««I a t» lO:Dt'?H r-.Q0ir3r-« r-<c*<NeOCO'Tr-<J'COO 2 a29 METHOD OP EXAMINATION. sometimes divided so that a portion of it lies behind these ves- sels. The head of the pancreas is embraced by and adherent to the concavity of the duodenum. The pancreatic duct usually joins the common bile-duct and has a common opening with it into the duodenum ; sometimes, however, the two ducts have separate openings. THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. (1.) The Male Organs.—If the urine is to be examined, it should be drawn off with a catheter. In many cases, it is sufficient to open the bladder on its upper surface, and examine it in place. If a more thorough examina- tion is necessary, the bladder should be removed with the ure- thra. For this purpose, the penis may be removed entire, or the skin is dissected otF from it nearly up to the glans penis, the penis is cut through at this point, and drawn out like a fin- ger from a glove, leaving the skin and glans penis behind. That portion of the urethra which passes beneath the arch.of the pubis may be carefully dissected away from the bones, or the bones may be sawn through on either side and the pubic arch removed, with the urethra, or the symphysis may be cut or sawn through and the pelvic bones violently separated. In this way, the urethra, prostate, vesiculae seminales, and bladder are removed together. The bladder and urethra should now be laid on the table, a long director passed into the urethra, the entire length of the canal laid open on its upper surface, and the incision prolonged into the wall of the bladder. (2.) The Female Organs.—After observing tlie position of the uterus and ovaries, these are to be removed together. The uterus and bladder are seized and the soft parts dissected away from them so that the bladder, uterus, ovaries, ligaments, upper part of the vagina and rectum are removed together. The bladder is first laid open, then the rectum, then the vagina and uterus on their anterior surface, then the ovaries and Fal- lopian tubes. In puerperal cases, incisions should be made through the broad ligaments and at many points in the wall of the uterus, to ascertain the condition of the uterine sinuses.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 30 The Uterus.—In the new-born infant, the uterus is small, the body flattened, the cervix disproportionately large. During childhood, the organ increases in size, but the body remains small in })roportion to the cervix. At puberty, the shape changes, and the body becomes larger. Its length is then 2-3 inches, its breadth 16-20 lines, its thickness 8-12 lines. At every menstruation, the uterus is somewhat swollen and con- gested. After pregnancy, it does not return to its original size, but remains somewhat larger. In old age, it becomes smaller, its walls more fibrous. The uterus is held in position by the broad and round liga- ments, by its attachments to the bladder in front, the rectum behind, and the vagina below. The anterior lip of the cervix reaches to f inch above the horizontal plane of the most supe- rior point of the symphysis pubis. The long axis of the uterus is rather nearer to the posterior than to the anterior wall. The shape of the uterus is that of a pear, flattened antero-posteriorly. The body is inclined forward at an angle of 140"^ with the cervix, while the latter is inclined somewhat backward. The uterus is covered by the peritoneum anteriorly, to a point a little below the level of the os internum, posteriorly as far as the insertion of the vagina into the cervix. The peri- toneum is firmly attached to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus by a layer of connective tissue; at the sides, it separates to form the broad ligaments. The greater part of the body and neck is made up of smooth muscular fibres, closely joined to each other. During pregnan- cy, these fibres ai'e greatly increased in size. With the fibres we find connective tissue, with many cells and a few elastic fibres. The mucous membrane of the body is composed of tubular follicles, either single or branching, lined with cylindrical epi- thelium, which in some animals is ciliated. The internal sur- face of the body and neck is covered with a layer of ciliated epithelium, which, near the external os, changes into pave- ment epithelium. Tlie mucous membrane of the neck is thrown into folds, in which are contained mucous follicles, simple tubes lined with31 METHOD OF EXAMINATIOK. cuboidal epithelium. In the lower half of the cervix there are small papillse covered with ciliated epithelium, between the openings of the mucous follicles. We also find in the mucous membrane closed, rounded follicles, (ovula Nabothi,) containing mucus and epithelium, Avhich are regarded as retention cysts of the mucous follicles, or as new growths. The outer surface of the cervix contains no glands, but is covered with small pa- pillae. At every menstruation the mucous membrane under- goes a rapid growth,, followed by a rapid degeneration. The changes produced in the uterus by pregnancy are so fully de- scribed in works on obstetrics that it is unnecessary to speak of them here. The Ovaries are two flattened oval bodies, which are placed one on each side, nearly horizontally, at the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, and are enveloped by its posterior mem- braneous layer. They are largest in the virgin state; their weight is from 3-5 scruples, and they measure about \\ inches in length, f inch in breadth, and nearly \ inch in thickness. Each ovary is free on its two sides, and also along its postei'ior border; but it is attached by its anterior border. Its inner end is attached to the ligaments of the ovary. To its outer extre- mity is attached one of the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube. The ovary is covered by the peritoneum, except at its at- tached border. Beneath this is a dense fibrous capsule. The ovary proper consists of a connective tissue stroma, in which, according to some writers, are smooth muscular fibres. Scat- tered through the stroma are the Graafian vescicles containing the ova. In adult females, we usually find corpora Intra in their various stages. The Fallopicm Tubes are between three and four inches in length. They commence at the upper angles of the uterus as small cords, which become larger, bend backward and down- ward toward the ovary. They terminate in an expanded fim- briated extremity, about an inch beyond the ovary. The tiibes are covered by the peritoneum. Their walls are composed of connective tissue and smooth muscular fibres. Their inner surface is thrown into folds, and lined32 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. witli ciliated epithelium, continuous with the uterine mucous membrane. THE EXAMINATION OF THE BODIES OF NEW-BORN INFANTS. In examining the bodies of new-born children, we have to con- sider, besides the ordinary lesions of disease, the age of the child ; whether it was born alive ; how long it has been dead; what was the cause of death. EXTERNAL INSPECTIGN. The Size and Age.—Casper gives the following description of the foetus during the different months of intra-uterine life: At the fourth week, the embryo is 4-6 lines long. The cleft of the mouth and two points representing the eyes can be recog- nized in the head. The extremities are rej)resented by little wart-like projections. The heart can be distinguished; the liver is disproportionately large. The umbilical vessels are not formed. The entire ovum has the size of a walnut. At the eighth week, the embryo is 15-18 lines long. The head forms more than a third of the entire body. The nose and lips can be distinguished, but not the external ear. The hand is longer than the fore-arm, the fingers are formed, but joined to- gether by a gelatinous mass ; the toes look like little buds ; the soles of the feet are turned inward. The arms appear as points. The abdomen is closed. All the viscera can be recog- nized. Points of ossification are formed in the apophysis of the first cervical vertebra, the humerus, radius, scapula, ribs, and cranial bones. There are rudimentary external genitals, but the sex can hardly be distinguished. The ovum reaches the size of a hen's egg. At the twelfth week, the placenta is formed. The embryo is 2-2^ inches long, and weighs three ounces. The eyes and mouth are closed. The neck separates the head from the thorax. The nails can be recognized on the fingers. The sex can be recog- nized. The umbilical cord is inserted near the pubes. TheTHE KEW-BOEN INFANT. 38 thymus and the suprarenal capsules are formed. The cerebel- lum, cerebrum, medulla, and the cavities of the heart can be recognized. The humerus is 3^ lines long; the radius, 2^ lines; the ulna, 3 lines; the femur, 2-3 lines; the tibia, 2-3 lines ; the fibula, 2|- lines. The ovum is as large as a goose's egg. At the sixteenth week, the embryo is 5-6 inches long, and weighs 7-^-9 ounces. The skin is of a rose-red color ; there is a commencement of formation of fat in the subcutaneous tissue. The scrotum and labia are formed. The face begins to assume its proper appearance. There is meconium of a white color in the duodenum. The liver is not so disproportionately large; the gall bladder is formed; the anus is open. The length of the humerus is 8 lines ; of the radius, 8 lines ; of the femur, 4-5 lines; of the tibia, 4-5 lines. The calcaneus begins to ossify at the middle of the fourth month. At the twentieth week, the embryo is 10-11 inches long ; it weighs from 21-30 ounces. The nails are very perceptible. There is a thin down on the head. There is not yet any of the vernix caseosa. The secretion of bile has commenced, and stains the meconium. The insertion of the umbilical cord is fur- ther otf from the pubes. The convolutions of the brain cannot be recognized. The humerus is 13-15 lines in length ; the ra- dius, 12 lines ; the ulna, 13 lines ; the femur, 12 lines ; the tibia and fibula, each 12 lines. The astragalus begins to ossify ; also the upper part of the sternum. At the twenty-fourth week, the embryo is 12-13 inches long, and weighs l^lf pounds. The lanugo and the vernix caseosa are formed. The skin is of a dusky cinnabar red color. The meconium is darker. The scrotum is empty, small, and red; the labia majora are prominent. The pupillary membrane is present and easily recognized. The length of the humerus is 16 lines; of the radius 16 lines; of the ulna, the femur, the tibia, and the fibula, each 17 lines. At the twenty-eighth week, the embryo is 14-15 inches long, and weighs 3-3|- pounds. The hair is more abundant and longer. Tlie large intestine is filled with meconium. The hu- merus is 20-22 lines long; the radius, 17 lines; the ulna, 18 lines; the femur, tibia, and fibula, each 19-21 lines. 334 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. At the thirty-second week, the embryo is 15-16 inches long, and weighs 3-5 pounds. The skin is of a lighter color. The pupillary membrane has disappeared. The testicles are in the scrotum, or the inguinal canal. The nails nearly reach the ends of the fingers. The humerus is 23-24 lines long; the radius, 18 -19 lines ; the ulna, 22-23 lines ; the femur, 24 lines ; the tibia and fibula, each 21-23 lines. The last sacral vertebra begins to ossify. At the thirty-sixth week, the embryo is 17-18 inches long, and weighs about 6 pounds. The scrotum begins to become wrinkled, and the labia to close. The hair becomes longer, while the lanugo begins to diminish in amount. At the fortieth week, the foetus is fully developed, and the term of its intra-uterine life accomplished. The fresh corpse of a new-born child at term no longer resembles that of the immature foetus. The skin is firm and pale, like that of an adult. The lanugo has disappeared, except on the shoulders. The average length is 19 1-7 inches; the weight, 7 pounds. The nails are hard, and reach to the points of the fingers, but not to those of the toes. The carti- lages of the ears and nose are hard. The point of ossification in the lower epiphysis of the femur should be noticed. If it is absent, the foetus is, as a rule, not more than thirty-seven weeks old; but in rare cases, it may be absent at term. A point of ossification j line in diameter indicates an age of 37-38 weeks, if the child Avas born dead. Rarely it is no larger than this at term. A diameter of J-4 lines indicates an age of 40 weeks at birth. A diameter of more than 4 lines indicates, as a rule, that the child has lived some time after its birth. Tlie pupil- lary membrane has disappeared. The testicles are in the scro- tum. The labia cover the clitoris. Twenty-four hours after the birth of the child, the skin is firmer and paler. The xmibilical cord is somewhat shrivelled, al- thousrh still soft and bluish-colored. From the second to the third day, the skin has a yellowish tinge, and the cuticle sometimes appears cracked. The mnbili- cal cord is brown and dry. From the third to the fourtli day, the skin is more yellow, andTHE NEW-BOllN IKFANT. 35 tlie cuticle separates from the skin and abdomen. The umbili- cal cord is of a brownish red color, flattened, semi-transparent, and twisted. The skin around its insertion is red and congested. Further Inspection of tJie Body.—The head should be exa- mined for the mai'ks of injuries. Yery commonly some portion of the scalp will be found swollen and infiltrated with blood and serum. This is the caput succedaneum formed during delivery. The mouth and nose should be examined for the presence of any foreign bodies which might have caused suffocation. The neck should be examined for the marks of strangulation. The umbilical cord may be twisted around the child's neck and strangle it. The mark left by the umbilical cord is usually con- tinuous, broad, soft, not excoriated, sometimes accompanied by ecchyjnoses in the skin. The entire body should be examined as to the presence of vernix caseosa, blood, marks of injuries, and the existence of putrefaction. The umbilical cord may be found cut or torn. It usually separates by the fifth day, sometimes not until the tenth. If the umbilicus is cicatrized and healed, the child has probably lived for three weeks. A zone of redness around the insertion of the cord may exist previous to birth. Redness with swelling and suppuration can only be found in a child which has lived for several days. The drying and mummification of the cord ]nay take place as well in dead as in living children. It is pos- sible for a child to die by hfemorrhage from a cut or torn cord either before or after it has breathed. The extremities may exhibit fractures of their bones. Tills may take place during intra-uterine life, from injuries to the woman, or from unknown causes; or may be produced by a violent delivery, or by injuries after birth. INTERNAL EXAAriNATIGN. The Head.—The fontanelles and sutures should first be exa- mined as to their size and for penetrating wounds. An incision should then be made through the scalp across the vertex, and the flaps turned backward and forward. AVith a small knife thePOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 36 edges of the bones slioiild be separated from the membranous suture and the dura mater, beginning low down in the frontal suture and going back into the lambdoidal suture on either side. The bones are then drawn outward and cut through with a pair of strong scissors. The brain is removed as in the adult. Etfusions of blood—cephalhsematoma—may be formed soon after birth between the pericranium and bone, or more rarely between the dura mater and bone. Clots are also found be- tween the dura mater and skull, between the dura mater and pia mater, and more rarely in the substance of the brain as the result of protracted or instrumental deliveries, or of injuries after birth. The cranial bones may be malformed, or exhibit the lesions of ricketts or caries, or be indented, fissured, or fractured. The indentations, fissures, and fractures may be produced during iiitra-uterine life by injuries to the mother, or by unknown causes ; by difficult deliveries, and by direct violence after birth. The brain is naturally much softer and pinker than in the adult; it may be much congested or anaemic without known cause. The ventricles contain very little serum. Malforma- tions, apoplexies, hydrocephalus, and inflammatory lesions are to be looked for. The pharynx should be opened and examined for foreign bodies. The thyroid gland weighs about 3 iij. It may be enlarged so as to interfere with respiration. The larynx and trachea should be examined for the lesions of inflammation and for injuries to the cartilages. The Thorax should be opened as in the adult. The thymus gland occupies the upper portion of the anterior mediastinum, covering the trachea and large vessels. Its ave- rage weight is half an ounce. It may be hypertrophied and com- press the large vessels, or be inflamed and suppurating. The heart lies more in the median line than in the adult. It weighs 1^-3^ ounces. The ventricular walls are of nearly equal thickness. The pericardium contains very little eerum. The serum may be increased in amount and stained red by decom-37 THE NEW-BORN INFANT. position. There may be small extravasations of blood beneath the pericardium in still-born children, and in those born alive. Pericarditis with effusion of serum and fibrine may exist be- fore birth. The time of the closure of the foramen ovale and of the ductus arteriosus varies very widely in different cases. Endocarditis with consequent changes in the valves may exist during intra-uterine life. Malformations and malpositions of the heart-cavities and large vessels are not infrequent. The pleural cavities contain very little serum. Decomposi- tion may increase the amount of serum and stain it red. Small extravasations of blood in the sub-pleural tissue are found in children which have died before birth, and after protracted labors. Inflammation with exudation of serum, fibrine, and pus may exist before birth. The Lungs in a still-born foetus are small, do not cover the heart, are situated in the upper and posterior portion of the thorax, are of a dark red color and of firm, liver-like consistence, and do not crepitate. ,In a child born alive and which has respired freely, the lungs fill the thoracic cavity, are of a light red color, and crepitate. If respiration has been incompletely performed, we find various intermediate conditions between the foetal and the inflated states. If there is any doubt as to respiration having taken place, it is customary to employ the hydi'ostatic test. This is done by placing the lungs, first together and afterward cut into small pieces, in water. If they sink, the child has not breathed; if they float, it has. The test is not, however, a certain one. Taylor says: 1. That the hydrostatic test can only show whether a child has or has not breathed, not whether it was born alive or dead. 2. That the lungs of children who have lived after birth may sink in water, owing to their not having received air, or to their being in a diseased condition. 3. That a child may live for some time with the lungs only partly inflated. 4. That a child may live for twenty-four hours, when no part of its lungs has been penetrated by air.38 POST-MORTEM EXAJriN ATIOXS. 5. The sinking of the lungs is no proof that a child has been born dead. 6. That the lungs of children which have not breathed, and have been born dead, may float in Avater from putrefaction or artificial inflation. The lesions of inflammation, and vesicular and subpleural emphysema may be found in the lungs of new-born children. The Diaphragm.—In still-born infants the convexity of the diaphragm reaches the fourth or fifth rib. After respiration, it reaches a point between the fourth and seventh rib. Its posi- tion is so variable that it is of little diagnostic value. The Peritoneum contains a very little clear serum. Bloody serum may be produced by decomposition. The peritoneum is often the seat of intra-uterine inflammation. The Stomach.—The mucous membrane of the stomach may be intensely congested as a natural condition. In still-born children it contains a little mucus, sometimes meconium. The contents of the stomach should be examined microscopically in doubtful cases, for the presence of milk and starch. Inflamma- tion and swelling of the closed follicles of the mucous membi*ane sometimes occur. In the small intestine, inflammation and swelling of the soli- tary and agminated follicles are sometimes found. The large intestine usually contains meconium, but this may be evacuated before or during birth. Tlie formation of gas in the stomach and intestines does not usually take place until respiration is established. If decompo- sition has commenced, however, gas may be formed as a part of the process. The Liver is of a dark red color, full of blood, and large. Its size diminishes after respiration is established. Tlie size is so variable before and after respiration, that it gives little in- formation as to the age of the child. Large extravasations of blood are sometimes found beneath the capsule of the liver without known cause. A variety of pathological conditions, fatty and waxy degeneration, gummy tumors, etc., may be found. The Spleen is large and firm. It may be abnormally large, and its capsule is sometimes covered with fresh exudation.THE NEW-BORN' INFANT. 39 The Suprarenal Capsules are large. They may be dilated into large cysts filled with blood. The Kidneys are lobiilated. There may be ecchymoses on their surfaces; inflammation and suppm-ation ; deposits of uric acid and urates in the tubes of the pyramids ; cystic dilatation of the tubes, sometimes reaching an enormous size. The Bladder may be full or empty, both in still-born children and in those which have breathed. Dilatation and hypertro- phy may exist during intra-iiterine life. Spinal Cord.—Extravasations of blood between the mem- branes of the cord may occur from the same causes as in the brain. Spina Bifida is the most frequent malformation.]I> A. R T II. MORBID ANATOMY OF THE ORGANS.THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. THE DURA MATER. When the Calvarium is removed, the Dura Mater is brought into view. It will be found somewhat adherent to the bone ; sometimes very adherent, as a senile change, or as the result of chronic inflammation. At the vertex the Dura Mater is often thinned or even perforated by the pacchyonian bodies, which may also produce indentations in the internal surface of the cal- varium. Ilmnorrhages.—These occur in the form of clots between the Dura Mater and skull, or, more rarely, in the substance of the membrane. They are usually produced by direct violence ap- plied to the skull, and correspond in situation to the external injury. In children, however, clots are found between the dura mater and parietal bones, in connection with cephalhfema- toma of the pericranium. Severe injuries and penetrating wounds of the skull may also lacerate or penetrate the dura mater. In rare cases the membrane has been found ruptured by the pressure of fluid in hydrocephalus. Thrombosis of the sinuses of the dm*a mater is not uncommon. The thrombi ai'e yellow and Arm, or soft, broken down, and puriform. They are produced by changes in the blood, by pul- monary disease, by inflammation of the skin of the face and scalp, with thrombosis of the veins, by inflammation and fracture of the cranial bones, by meningitis, by otitis, and occur without known cause.44 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. The tlirombi may cause meningitis, small apoplexies, ence- phalitis, and multiple pyaemic infarctions. Or a thrombus may be found in the veiii after death, which has apparently produced no lesions. I have seen a case in which a young female domestic, with- out any known cause, suddenly became unconscious, comatose, her right arm and leg paralyzed ; her pulse rose to 140, her tem- perature to 103|- F., and she died on the ninth day. At the au- topsy the straight sinus of the tentorium was found filled with a large, white thrombus, which extended through all the branches given off from the corpora striata and optic thalami. The up- per portion of both corpora striata, of the left optic thalamus, and of the fornix, were in the condition of red softening. There were no other lesions throughout the entire body. Inflammation.—Pachymeningitis may involve either the ex- ternal or internal layers of the Dura Mater, Inflammation of the external layers is secondary to injuries or diseases of the cranial bones. Fractures of the skull, either depressed or not, osteitis, caries, chronic otitis, and even external periostitis may produce it. The dura mater is congested, thickened, softened, and ecchymotic. The inflammation may go on to form pus between the membrane and the bone and in the substance of the membrane, sometimes accompanied with thrombosis of the neighboring venous sinuses, sometimes with gangrene of the dura mater. Such inflammations may extend to the pia mater and brain, or, the inflammation may merely produce fibrous thickening, with or without pigmentation of the Dura Mater and adhesions to the skull. Inflammation of the internal layers of the Dura Mater occurs as a complication of pyaemia, puerperal fever, chronic nephritis, and the exanthemata. The inner surface of the menabrane ap- pears streaked with delicate vessels, is of a rosy color, and is lined with a layer of exudation, which is either delicate, grayish, and soft, like mucus, or more consistent and membranous, or yellow, loose, and piiriform There is also a primary form of inflammation of the internal layer of the dura mater, called Pacchymeningitis chronica hie- morrhagica. In this form there is found, loosely adherent to45 THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. tlie internal surfoce of the dura mater, a thin membrane, grayish with red dots, looking like coagulated fibi'ine. This is com- posed of a homogeneous basement substance containing con- nective tissue-cells and a great number of capillary vessels, witli numerous small haemorrhages. In a more advanced stage this new membrane may become enormously thickened, its outer layers change into fibrous tissue, and the haemorrhages in its substance may attain such a size as seriously to compress the brain, and even cause death. Yery rarely serum accumulates between the layers of new membranes, and in this way cysts of large size can be formed. In rare cases, diffuse suppuration of the entire new membrane has been observed. The slighter degrees of this form of inflammation may occasion no symp- toms during life. The more advanced lesions xisually occur in idiots, epileptics, etc. NEW GROWTHS. Cysts of the Dura Mater have only been described in a few rare instances. Fihromata^ also, are very seldom met with. Osteoma.—New formation of bone may occur either in the inner or outer layers of the Dura Mater. In the inner layers it occurs in the form of plates, or, more I'arely, globular tumors, most frequently in tlie falx, but also in other situations. These l^lates usually cause no symptoms during life. Bony growths in the outer layers are of irregular sliape, and often become continuous with the neighboring bones. Lvpomata have been observed in the form of small globular tumors attached to the inner surface of the dura mater. Syphilitio Grovjths (Gummata) are of very various sizes and shapes. They are usually firm, partly of a gray semi-transpa- rent color, partly yellow and cheesy. They grow either from the outer layers of the Dura Mater, and may then cause thinning, erosion, osteo-myelitis, caries, and necrosis of the bones; or from the inner layers, and invade the brain, causing secondary tumors and inflammation of the pia mater and brain. Psammoma.—Under this name Yirchow has described a f orniPOST-MORTEM EXAillNATIONS. 46 of tumor growing imvard from tlie Dura Mater. These tumors are small, of irregular globular shape, of firm, gritty consistence, of white or pinkish color. They are formed of a loose fibrous tissue, of round and fusiform cells, and of globular calcareous concretions, such as are found scattered through the normal brain tissues. These bodies are arranged at the ends of broad fibres, as if on stalks. Sarcoma.—These tumors grow from the inner surface of the dura mater, invading the brain, or from its outer surface, thin- ning or perforating the skull. They are very hard and Avhite, or soft and pinkish, or partly cheesy. They are composed of roimd, oval, or fusiform cells, sometimes of myeloplaxes, mixed with a variable amount of fibrous tissue. Carcinoma.—This form of new growth may occur as a ])ri- mary or secondary new growth in any part of the Dura Mater. The tumors may grow inward and compress the brain, or out- ward and project through the skull as a fungous, bleeding mass. Less frequently the membrane becomes infiltrated with the new growth forming large flat tumors, which may invade the bone. They are either hard, or soft and vascular. They usually consist of nucleated cells arranged in alveoli, but some- times have the structure of epithelial cancer. THE PIA MATER * When the Dura Mater is stripped backward, it will be found somewhat adherent alonff the loncritudinal fissure. The Pia Mater is then brought into view. This membrane will be found in various degrees of congestion. The vessels may be nearly empty or distended with blood. Generally the degree of post- mortem congestion is not a certain evidence of the amount of congestion durins; life. Alonir the edsres of the longitudinal fissure, and more rarely on the under surface of the brain, are * I have followed the plan, now pronerally adopted, of not considering the aracliuoid as a serous sac with visceral and parietal layers, but of treating of only two membranes, the dura and pia mater. The dura mater has an epithe- lial lining on its internal surface, the pia mater has two layers, a membranous and a vascular.THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 47 a number of small, white, lirm, irregular bodies—the pacch}'- onian bodies. They may be few and small, or numerous and large, and scattered over the convex surface of the hemispheres. They may perforate the Dura Mater, or, more rarely, the wall of the longitudinal sinus. They are composed of fibrous tissue, but may undergo fatty, or calcific degeneration. The pia ma- ter is also frequently thickened, opaque and white, especially along the course of the vessels. The pacchyonian bodies and the opacities of the Pia Mater are both said to be dependent upon repeated congestions of the membrane. They are most frequently found as senile changes, and do not indicate the pre- existence of any disease. The amount of serum beneath the pia mater and infiltrating its tissue is very variable in amount. It is not infrequent to find in hospital patients suffering from chronic nephritis, cardiac, or pulmonary disease, or chronic alcoholism, a very considerable amount of serum in this situa- tion, and yet the patient has been free from cerebral symptoms. In other cases again this same serous eff"usion affords the only explanation of grave cerebral symptoms. It is necessary to be very careful in judging of the importance of this accumulation of fluid. Hcemorrliage.—Most authors speak of hfemorrhages between the dura and pia mater as of rare occurrence, except from violence or the rupture of small aneurisms in the pia mater. This opinion appears to me to be erroneous ; and I have found clots in this situation not infrequently Avithout any special cause to account for them. Haemorrhages in the substance of the pia mater occur spon- taneously in young children, but in adults are usually the result of violence. Haemorrhages between the pia mater and brain are produced by violence, by apoplexies in the brain substance, or occur by themselves. In the latter case, the clot is usually situated at the base of the brain and around the medulla. Some of the blood may escape outside of the pia mater between tliis mem- brane and the dura mater. Meningitis.—Inflammation of the pia mater causes the pro-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 48 duction of exudation in the substance of and beneath the pia mater. This exudation is composed of seinun, lymphoid cells, and coagulated fibrine in variable proportions. It occupies circumscribed portions of the pia mater, or is distributed along the course of the vessels, or extends over a large part of the brain and upper part of the spinal cord. It gives to the pia mater a gray, yellow, or greenish color. It is rare to find any exudation on the free surface of the membrane. The inflam- mation may involve the superficial layers of the brain. This disease usually occurs in adults. It is either idiopathic or secondary to inflammations of the dura mater and cranial bones, to thrombosis of the large venous sinuses, to severe concussions of the head, or occurs as epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. This inflammation is usually fatal. In rare cases, collections of pus form between the pia mater and brain, and exist as ab- scesses for a considerable time. Sometimes the exudation un- dergoes cheesy degeneration, and forms firm yellow masses in the sulci. Sometimes the inflammation subsides entirely, leav- ing the pia mater thick, opacpie, and adherent to the brain and dura mater. Chronic Meningitis.—This is a disease of which our know- ledge is imperfect. It is not always easy to draw the line be- tween the lesions of chronic inflammatioii and those of a more degenerative character. The most marked form of chronic meningitis is seen in the general paralysis of the insane. Here we find the pia mater thick, opaque, and adherent to the brain. The outer layers of the brain are softened or sclerosed; and there are ])eculiar changes connected with the small blood-vessels. Another form of chronic meningitis occurs by itself. It is most frecpient in old people. The patient is usually sick for some time, but the diagnosis is often not established during life. The i)ia mater is thick, opaque, and adherent to the brain. There is a moderate amount of turbid serum beneath the pia mater, and sometimes small collections of pus. The pia mater is infiltrated with pus cells. I have seen in some cases dilatation of the vessels and increase of cells in the super- ficial layers of the brain.THE EPENDYMA AND THE CHOROID PLEXUS. 49 Tuhercular Meningitis.—This form of meningitis accom- panies tlie production of gray miliary tubercles in the pia mater. The tubercles are found most abundant at the base and in the sulci, and are sometimes hardly to be seen with the naked eye. They are very small transparent granulations surrounding the small blood-vessels. They are formed by an accumulation of small round cells within the perivascular sheaths. Accompanying the tubercles, serum, hbrine, and lymphoid cells form a turbid fluid exudation beneath and in the pia mater. This form of inflammation is most frequent in childhood, but occurs also in adult life. It is usually found with tuberculosis of the other viscera. NEW GKOWTHS. Fibroma, Angioma, Sarcoma, Lipoma, Cysts, Carcinoma, and Epithelioma occur in the pia mater in rare cases. Gummy Tumors are found in and beneath the pia mater. Tumors formed of cholesterine and epithelial cells have been found at the base of the brain. Small plates of bone are sometimes formed in the pia mater over the convex surface of the brain. Tubercular tumors occur as rounded bodies, apparently form- ed of an aggregation of smaller tumors. They are usually far advanced in cheesy degeneration so as to liave an opaque yellow color. Tliey are most frequent in children. PAKASITES. The cysticercus cellulosse has been observed in the pia mater. THE YENTRICLES OF THE BRAIK THE EPENDYMA AND THE CHOROID PLEXUS. The ventricles usually contain a small amount of clear serum. If there is inflammation of the pia mater, especially at the base of the brain, turbid or purulent serum is frequently found in the ventricles. A considerable amoimt of clear serum in the ven- tricles, and even a moderate dilatation of these cavities, are not necessarily evidences of disease. 4POST-MORTEII EXAMIXATIOKS. 50 PatJwlogical Accumulations of Serum are : (1.) Congenital Ilydrocejyhalus.—The highest degrees of this form will be considered with, the malformations. The lesser decrees commence as a moderate effusion of serum into the ventricles, which increases to a greater or less extent, and for a variable time after the child's birtli. In these cases, Ave find all the ventricles of the brain dilated and filled with clear serum. The brain substance forms a thin shell around these safes of fiuid. The ependyma of the ventricles is either smooth or thickened. (2.) The serum accumulates after birtli, usually in badly- nourished children. The effusion may take place rapidly, with febrile symptoms. The serum is in variable amount, and clear; the walls of the ventricles, and sometimes the brain, are oedematous and soften- ed ; the pia mater shows no evidence of inflammation. Such an effusion of serum may be fatal, or may be absorbed, or may take on a chronic character. (3.) The effusion may be caiised by acute or chronic hyperaj- mia of the brain and its membranes. It may occur at any age. It has been ascribed to excessive bodily and mental exertion, alcoholism, tumors of the brain, obstruction of the venous sinuses and jugular veins, and to heart and lung diseases. The accumulation of serum is usually gradual, though the patient may at the last die suddenly. Such cases have been called serous apoplexy. Atrophy of the brain is usually accompanied by a serous effusion in the ventricles. The accumulation of serum in all the cases mentioned occurs equally in both ventricles. In rare cases, however, the effusion is confined to one lateral ventricle, or to the third ventricle, or to one of the cornua of a lateral ventricle. The dilated por- tion of the ventricle may then look like a cyst with a narrow opening. Jloimorrhages into the ventricles take place when apoplexies of the brain substance break through into these cavities. Inflammation of the Choroid Plexus and Ependyma is usually secondary to a meningitis, but may be primary. Tlie ventri-THE EPENDYMA AND THE CHOROID PLEXUS. 51 cles contain a moderate amount of serum made turbid hj pus globules and broken-down particles of tissue. The ependyma is coated and infiltrated with tlie same material. The layer of brain tissue next the ependyma is softened or stained witli small apoplexis. Or the entire brain may be softened and. cedematous. Sometimes the ependyma is coated with a thick layer of lymphoid cells and fibrine. I have seen, in an adult, the ependyma thickened, of a mottled gray and red color; the brain substance next it soft and red ; very little serum in the ventricles; no lesion in any other part of the brain ; and the patient died comatose. NEW GROWTHS. Connective Tissue may occur as a new growth, causing a imi- iQrm thickening of the ependyma, or the thickening may be in plateSy or in small granulations. In rare cases, small fibrous tumors are attached to the ependyma by narrow pedicles, and these tumors may become free. The new growth of connective tissue may cause adhesions between the walls of the ventricles. Calcification and ossification of the thickened ependyma has been seen in a few instances. Lipoma.—Small, fatty tumors have been found attached to the ependyma and choroid plexus. Enchondroma has been observed in the choroid plexus in small nodules. Cystoid Growths occur very commonly in the choroid plexus in the form of little transparent vesicles. These little vesicles are not really cysts, but are composed of small, transparent cells closely packed together. These bodies have no patho- logical significance. A cyst, as large as a walnut, filled with colloid matter, and a dermoid cyst containing hair, have been observed in this situation. Angioma may occur in the choroid plexus. Carcinoma has been seen in very rare cases in the plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the ependyma of the lateral ventricles.POST-MORTEM EXAMUvATIONS. 52 THE BRAIK. MALFOEMATIONS. Cyclopia.—This malformation consists in an arrest of de- velopment affecting tlie cerebrum, Avliich, instead of separating into two hemispheres, remains single, and the rudiments of the eyes become joined and form one eye. This single eye is in the middle of the face at the root of the nose, in a single orbit. Over this is an irregular body representing the nose. The rest of the face is well formed. Or the eye-ball may be wanting entirely, or there are two eyes joined together, or, more seldom, two separate eyes. The orbit is surrounded by rudiments of four eye-lids. The frontal bone is single, the nasal bones undeveloped, the ethmoid, vomer, and turbinated bones are absent. The optic nerve is double, single, or absent. There may be hydrocephalus. Such children are incapable of any prolonged existence, Anencejphalia.—This malformation may be of various de- grees. The brain may be entirely absent, and the base of the cranium is covered with a thick membrane, into which tlie nerves pass. Or, the membranes may Ibrm a sort of cyst con- taining blood and serum, or portions of brain. Of the cranial bones, only those which form the base of the skull are present. The foetus cannot live. Hydrencephalocele.—(1.) The cranial bones are incompletely'^ developed. The cranium is flattened or concave from above downward. The brain is incomplete, or hydrocephalic, or replaced by a bloodj'^, spongy mass, or by a sac of serum. It .escapes from the cranial cavity by an opening in the cranium, .usually lies on the neck, and may or may not be covered M'ith skin. The foetus is not viable. (2.) The cranial bones are well developed, as is also the brain. At some point in the cranial bones, at the root of the nose, tlie occiput, on the sides of the skull, in the sagittal suture, or at the base, there is an opening through which escapes a sac coni- rposed of the membranes of the brain, inclosing serum or brain •.tissue. Or a portion of brain alone may protrude, covered by its membranes and the skin. These tumors may be small, orTHE BRAIN. 53 as large as the cliild's head. The malformation is caused by a partial hydrocephalus of the cavities or membranes of the brain. Hydrocephalus.—Hydrocephalus internus consists in an ac- cumulation of serum in the ventricles of the brain. It occurs in all degrees, according to the period of fo3tal life at which it begins. There may be only a sac formed by the membranes, or the brain may be partly developed, or it may be perfect. The cranial bones are separated at their sutures and fontanelles In rare cases, only part of one lateral ventricle is hydrocephalic, giving to the head a protuberance on one side. The viability of the foetus depends upon the degree of the hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus externus is an accumulation of serum beneath the pia mater, or, according to some authors, between the pia and dura mater. It causes dilatation of the cranium and com- pression of the brain. It is of very rare occurrence. Mlcroceplialia.—This is an abnormally small size of the brain, with a correspondingly small cranium. The diminution in size affects principally the cerebral hemispheres, though the other parts of the brain are also small. The convolutions are few and simple, the cavities often dilated with serum, on. the membranes are traces of inflammation. The cranium is small, the face large, the rest of the body small. The malformation is caused by inflammation or dropsy of the brain during fcetal life. It is endemic in some countries, but single cases may occur anywhere. The fcetus is viable. Absence of portions of the brain may occur not only in idiots, but in persons whose minds are perfect. IIYPEKTKOPHY AND ATROPHY. Hypertrophy.—In children, either before or after birth, less frequently in youth, and very seldom in adults, we find hyper- trophy of the brain. This hypertrophy consists in an increase of size of the white substance of the hemispheres. If it takes place before the ossification of the cranium, the bones are sepa- rated at the sutures and fontanelles; if after this, the inner table of the skull is eroded and thinned. When the cranium is opened, the dura mater appears tense and anaemic, the convo- lutions of the brain are flattened, the brain substance is firm54 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. and ansemic, the ventricles are small, the ganglia and cerebel- lum are either of normal size or compressed. The disease is usually very chronic, and destroys life with symptoms of compression of the brain. There niay, however, be acute exacerbations. The hjiJertrophy consists in an increase of the neuroglia. Rokitansky has also described eases of hypertrophy as caused by tumors of the brain and compression of the medulla ob- longata. Hypertrophies of portions of the brain have been described by various authors. Atrophy.—This may occur as a senile change, or in adults from idiocy, alcoholism, opium or lead poisoning, or chronic meningitis. In children who are very much reduced by chronic diseases, atrophy of the brain may accompany atrophy of the rest of the bod3^ The atrophy affects principally the cerebral hemispheres. The convolutions are small, the sulci broad, the ventricles di- lated, the brain tissue firm, the gray substance discolored, the white substance dark colored, the blood-vessels dilated. The large ganglia at the base are also small. Serum usually ac- cumulates beneath the pia mater and in the ventricles, the pia mater and often the skull become thickened; the brain sub- stance may be oedematous, or contain hemorrhages. INJURIES. "Wounds of the brain may be inflicted in a great variety of ways, and by many diffei'ent instruments. Tlie brain may be directly wounded by the foreign body, or indirectly by frag- ments of bone driven into it. It is very difficult to estimate the degree of injury - which must cause death; persons fre- quently die from slight, and may recover from sevei'c, penetrat- ing wounds of the brain. After wounds which remove a portion of the cranial bones, it is not uncommon, after a few days, to see a bleeding, fungus mass project through the opening. This mass, or hernia cerebri, consists of granulation tissue, brain matter, and blood. The brain tissue below it is softened and purulent; there is often an abscess in the brain substance beneath.65 THE BRAIN. Severe injuries of the head which fracture the skull without displacing the fragments, or even cause no fracture, may pro- duce laceration of the brain. The laceration takes place either at the point of injury or at some other part of the brain. We find small or large portions of the surface of the hemispheres mottled with little haemorrhages, the brain tissue softened and broken down. H^MOEEHAGE. Effusions of blood in the substance of the brain are very com- mon and may occur at any age. They may be of small size— capillary apoplexies, or consist of large blood-clots. They may occur in the large ganglia, or at any point in the hemispheres. They usually pi'oduce softening and breaking down of the brain tissue, and often find their way into the ventricles or be- neath the pia mater. They cause death when of large size. The smaller ones sometimes undergo degenerative changes, the blood becomes absorbed, and there are left little cysts contain- ing serum, surrounded by indurated, reddish-yellow brain tissue, or there are little spots of a reddish color composed of a soft, friable material. These hfemorrhages are produced by fatty, or atheromatous degeneration of the vessels of the brain, hypertrophy, and val- vular disease of the heart, convulsions, and external injuries. Often no satisfactory cause can be discovered. liSTFLAmiATION. Idiopathic inflammation of the brain is so rare that its ex- istence is denied by some authors. The alterations in the brain tissue are usually secondary to injuries, to inflammation of the meninges, or to some obstruction of the cerebral vessels. The changes met with are, in recent cases, diminution of consistence and change in color ; in chronic cases, increase of consistence. Injuries^ which either directly bruise and lacerate the brain, or do so indirectly without fracture of the skull, render the brain tissue soft, mottled with small apoplexies, the nervous tissue disintegrated and degenerated, the softened mass infil- trated with red blood globules and lymphoid cells. Obstruction of the Cerebral Vessels occurs in a variety ofPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 56 ways. The arteries may be occluded by emboli or thrombi, the capillaries by emboli, the veins and sinuses by thrombi. Or, the arteries and capillaries may be the seat of atheroma and fatty degeneration. Emboli are usually portions of 11 brine detached from the aorta or left heart, or from the pulmonary veins, or, rarely, in carcinoma of the lungs, ]3ortions of the new growth may be swept by the current of blood from the pulmonary veins. Sometimes, however, we can find nothing in the heart or vessels to account for the origin of the embolus. Thrombosis of the arteries is produced by atheroma of their walls, by dilatation or fatty degeneration of the heart, and by certain conditions of the blood occurring in ill-nourished and cachectic persons. All these conditions are most likely to occur in old age. Thrombosis of the veins and sinuses is caused by inflamma- tion of the dura mater, cranial bones, and pericranium, or by unknow^n changes in the quality of the blood. Fatty and calcific degeneration may affect the walls of a group of capillaries to such a degree as to interfere with the nutrition of portions of the brain. Tliis condition, however, must not be confounded with the fatty degeneration which affects the capillaries as a result of softening of the brain. These difterent conditions of obstruction of the circulation cause various lesions in the brain. 1. If the circulation is entirely cut off b}' the occlusion of a vessel of some size, or by occlusion or fatty degeneration of a group of capillaries, a portion of the brain tissue is found to be unchanged in color, but of soft or even fluid consistence. This alteration aflects cii'cumscribed portions, usually of the white substance of the hemispheres. These spots may be of all sizes, even the entire half of the cerebrum may be softened after ligature of one carotid. Tlie softened tissue is composed of de- generated nerve fibres, large globules of myeline, compound granular corpuscles, corpora aniylacea, concretions of lime, fatty ganglion cells, and lymphoid cells in variable number. The vessels are empty, normal, or fatty and broken into frag- ments.^ THE BRAIN. 57 The changes in these cases, often called " white softening," are, therefore, simply degenerative and necrobiotic, or of a very low inflammatory type. Such a spot of softening may remain unchanged for years, or it may become completely fluid and form a cyst with thick walls. 2. If a small artery is plugged, or there is thi'ombosis of a vein, the results are entirely different. In such cases, Ave And the appearances belonging to the hemorrhagic infarctions of all the viscera. The set of capillaries belonging to the artery or vein affected are distended with blood, a certain number of them rupture and allow the escape of blood into the tissue. Tlie tissue around and between the distended capillaries and extravasated blood becomes the seat of degenerative and in- flammatory changes. The portions of tissue affected are single or multiple, usually small, most frequently near the surface of the hemispheres. The brain tissue is red, mottled red and white, gray or yellow; it is soft or even puriform. It is com- posed of broken-down nerve fibres, globules of myeline, pig- ment masses, compound granular corpuscles, granular mattei', lymphoid cells, fibrine or serum, and red blood globules. The blood-vessels are filled with blood, dilated, and often fatty. After a time, these spots of so-called " red softening" may be- come fairly purulent, or may, from the loss of - blood pigment, become yellow and gray-colored, or may become sclerosed, or rarely cheesy. Abscess of the Brain.—When inflammation of the brain tis- sue goes on to an excessive formation of pus, abscesses are form- ed. A recent abscess has an irregular shape; its walls are com- posed of shreddy, disintegrated brain substance, and around it for some distance the brain tissue is softened. The pus isiisual- ly green and fetid. An old abscess becomes inclosed in a fibrous capsule, smooth inside, continuous with the brain out- side ; often very thick. The pus is always ill-formed, and may change into serum alone, so that the abscess looks like a cyst. Fractures of the skull, either depressed or not; blows on the skull, without fracture; inflammation of the cranial bones or membranes; inflammation of the internal ear, with or without caries of the temporal bone, and pyaemia, are the usual causes58 POST- MOKTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. of abscesses. The abscesses may occur in any part of the brain, be of any size, and be solitary or multiple. They are always fatal, but may exist for years before death ensues. YeUoio Softening.—Under this name Eokitansky describes a peculiar condition of the brain. It occurs in circumscribed spots; lias a moist, tremulous consistence, and a yellow color. The brain substance around is much swollen and oedematous. This form of softening may occur in any part of the brain. It is either idiopathic or secondary. It is found near hemorrhages and tumors. Sclerosis:—Inflammation of the brain tissue, instead of ren- dering it soft, may cause induration. As a senile change, the consistence of the brain often be- comes harder and dryer. In Typhus, Cholera, puerperal Peri- tonitis, and Scarlet Fever, the brain may be firmer than usual, and contain less serum. In lead poisoning, the brain may be both indurated and ati'ophied. In general paralysis, there is an induration of the superficial layers of the braiu accompanying chronic meningitis. In tw^o cases of mild insanity of short duration, with paraly- sis of all the limbs, I have seen the entire white substance of the brain very markedly indurated. There was also a peculiar, colloid-looking degeneration of the gray matter of the cord. Sclerosis of isolated portions of the brain {Sclerose en Plaques) occurs usually in connection with the same lesion of the cord. "We may find it in any part of the Avhite substance of the brain. The sclerosed patches are of variable size, num- ber, and shape. They are firm, depressed, and shrunken, of a rosy or gray color. This lesion is characteristic of paralysis with tremor. In all cases of sclerosis the essential process is an increase of the neuroglia, with atrophy of the nervous elements. Interstitial Enceplialitis.—Under this name Virchow has de- scribed a lesion which is very frequently foimd in still-born and very young children. It consists in an enlargement and fatty degeneration of the cells of the neuroglia of the white substance of the hemispheres, so that they look like compound granular corpuscles. It is still uncertain whether this change is to be looked upon as a pathological condition.THE BRAIN. 59 CEDEMA, Infiltration of tlie brain witli serum occurs as a consequence of clironic diseases—chronic nephritis, phthisis, etc.—and oc- cin-s with cardiac disease and obstruction of the jugular veins. Usually the amount of serum is small; the brain substance appears moist, and exudes a little serum on pressure. Some- times, however, the serum is very abundant, and the brain ap- pears almost semi-fluid. CEdema, with anasmia of the brain, is considered by Traube to be the cause of urjemic convulsions. MELAN^ML\. In persons affected by malarial disease, the gray matter of the brain is sometimes found to have a blackish tint. This color is due to the presence of black pigment granules within the capillary vessels. The obstruction to the vessels by these pigment masses may cause capillary apoplexies. The pigment is also found within the capillaries of the pia mater. Some authors hold that the pigment is situated in the walls of the vessels. It has always ajDpeared to me to be within them. NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma occurs in the brain as a primary or secondary tumor. It may be of the hard or soft varieties, or cavernous, or melanotic. It is found in all parts of the brain, and may be single or multiple. It may increase so as to involve the dura mater and skull, and appear on the outside of the cranixim. Sarcoma is usually found in the hemispheres. The tumors may be hard and fibrous, or soft, or vascular, or cheesy. They are composed of round, oval, or fusiform cells, with a connec- tive tissue stroma. Glioma.—Under this name Yirchow describes a form of tumor composed of neuroglia. The typical growths are composed of a finely granular substance, in which nuclei are obscurely seen. They are either hard, or soft, or lijemon-hagic. They frequent- ly appear like a hypertrophy of the brain tissue rather than a tumor.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 60 Osteoma occurs in tlie form of isolated, globular tumors in the cerebrum and cerebellum, or lias ratlier the character of an ossi- fication of part of the brain. In these latter cases, it seems to be a late stage of the process of sclerosis. Myxoma.—These tumors are found most fi-equently in the cerebral hemispheres. They are usually of large size, and of soft, gelatinous consistence, so as even to resemble cysts. Fibroma is very rare. It occurs in the form of small, hard, globular tumors. Cholesteatoma is found in the form of rounded tumors, hav- ing a fibrous capsule and a glistening, white consistence. They are made up of crystals of cholesterine and epithelial cells. Angioma may occur in any part of the brain, but is most fre- quent in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Tuhercle is found most frequently in the cerebellum, and usually in children. The tumors may be single or multiple, large or small. They are usually globular, and have a concen- tric appearance; the greater portion often undergoes cheesy degeneration ; but there is sometimes a layer of gray, semi- translucent material at the periphery. Gummata.—Syj^hilitic tumors are found usually near the sur- face of the brain. They have an irregidar shape, the larger tumors being made up of a number of small ones. They have a mottled gray and yellow color. Isolated portions undergo cheesy degeneration, and are separated by other portions, which are grayish and composed of round and fusiform cells, or white and firm, and composed of fibrous tissue. New Growth of tlie Gray Matter of the brain, in the form of isolated nodules imbedded in the white substance, has been de- scribed by Yirchow and others. Cysts and dermoid cysts have been seen in the brain, but are rare. All the tumors of the brain have a tendency to cheesy and fatty degeneration, which renders their anatomical diagno- sis difficidt. PARASITES. Echinococci and Cysticercus cellulosiB are both found in the brain.THE SPINAL CORD. 61 THE PnuiTAKY BODY. The pituitary body is sometimes entirely absent, or it may be atrophied and fatty. Small abscesses have been observed in it. Colloid degeneration may affect it, sometimes with hyper- trophy. Carcinoma and Tubercle may occur in it. THE PINEAL GLAND. This little body may be entirely wanting, or hypertrophied, or contain pus, or be changed into a cyst, or be enlarged and filled with globular concretions of lime. Forster reports a sin- gle case of secondary Carcinoma in it. THE SPINAL COED. THE MEMBRANES. THE DURA MATER. Inflammation of the dura mater is very infrequent. It is only found M^th injuries, or disease of the vertebrae. The in- flammation is usually of suppurative character, and may com- press the spinal cord or cause a general meningitis. NEW GKOWTHS. Bone of new formation in the dura mater is rare, and forms small plates. Lipoma has been observed in several cases. Tttberde usually accompanies caries of the vertebrae in the shape of a diffused, cheesy infiltration, with softening and the formation of abscesses between the pia and dura maters. More rarely, isolated tubercles are found without disease of the bone. Carcinoma of the dura mater may be primary, or continuous from the vertebrae. It is medullary, grows inward and com- presses the cord, or outward, and infiltrates the soft parts out- side the vertebrae. THE PIA MATER. The pia mater of the cord, like that of the brain, is found in various degrees of congestion, and it is difficult to pronounce how great a degree is pathological.POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 62 HoBmorrhages occur idiopatliically, or from injuries, or from general convulsions. Serum is present beneath the pia mater to a greater or less degree. It is difficult to say how large an amoxmt is patho- logical. ESTFLAIEMATIOX. Spinal meningitis is found at all ages. It may be idiopathic, traumatic, rheumatic, or caiised by inflammation of the brain, the dura mater, or the vertebrre, or occur as epidemic cerebro- spinal meningitis. The disease usually attacks the entire length of the mem- brane. An exudation composed of serum, lymphoid cells, and fibrine iniiltrates the pia mater and raises it up from the cord. NEW GKOWTHS. Fibroma of the pia mater, compressing the cord, has been observed. Bone, in the form of small plates, sometimes occurs. Carcinoma may occur as circumscribed tumors, or as difi'nsed masses. MALFOKMATIONS. Ilydrorachis, Sj^ina Bifida, consists in dropsy and atrophy of the cord, with or without malformation of the vertebraB. (1.) The vertebral canal is open on its posterior surface for its entire length; the cord is absent, the nerves are inserted into the spongy hsemorrhagic membranes. (2.) The vertebral canal is closed. The central canal of the cord is dilated with serum, or the cord is absent, and the mem- branes are dilated with serum; or there may be an accumula- tion of serum beneath the pia mater, with or without atrophy of tlie cord. (3.) 'At some portion of the vertebral canal its posterior wall is absent, so that the membranes protrude as a sac, filled with serum—Spina Bifida. The serum accumulates in the central canal, or beneath the pia mater. The cord is absent, or rudi- mentary, or well formed. The walls of the sac are formed ot dura and pia mater, or of pia mater alone. Rarely tlierc is no fissure in the bones, and the sac protrudes between the laminar63 THE SPINAL COED. processes. In rare cases, there is a defect in the anterior wall of the canal, and the sac projects through it. I have made an autopsy on one very remarkable case of this kind. The patient was under the care of Dr. Emmet. A female, aged 36, ten years ago noticed a swelling as large as a goose's egg in the left iliac region, attended with severe -pain and constipation. This swelling increased slowly. Seven years ago, she had a bloody and purulent discharge from the bowels, lasting for five weeks, and followed by a decrease of the swelling. Was seen by Dr. Emmet about tliree weeks be- fore her death. There was then oedema of the right leg, pain in the sacrum, constipation of the bowels, urine normal, abdo- men tympanitic. The cervix uteri was high up; the rectum was nearly occluded by a fluctuating tumor postei'ior to it. From this tumor a little clear serum was drawn olf with a fine trochar. On the day after this operation, she had a chill, fol- lowed by fever, great prostration, and in seven days, death. Autopsy 9^ hours after death. The rectum and descending colon were enormously dilated with faeces, nearly filling the abdomen. The upper edge of the uterus was two inches below the umbilicus, and pushed to the right side. The bladder was also carried up in front of the xiterus. There was cystitis. There was a large cyst behind and to the right of the rectum, filling the pelvic cavity, and reaching up to the level of the second lumbar vertebra. This cyst was firmly boimd down on all sides, but especially at the lower part of the sacrum. When it was removed, there v/as found an opening in the lower part of the anterior surface of the sacrum, through which the finger could be passed into the spinal canal. (4.) A portion of the cord may project through an opening in the bones, without any serum. Isolated cases have been re- ported of abnormally short cord, and of a double cord. INJURIES. The spinal cord may be compressed or lacerated by penetrat- ing wounds, by fracture, or dislocation of the vertebrae, or by concussion, without injury to the vertebrae. The spinal cord is found simply disintegrated, or haemorrhagic, or if inflammation64 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Las followed tlie laceration, lymplioid cells and compound gran- ular corpuscles will be present. There may be marked changes in the minute structure of the cord, without any evidence to the naked eye. H^MOKRIIAGE. Apoplexies in tlie substance of the cord are not common. Tlie nervous tissue is disintegrated by the blood. The lesion may cause death in a very short time, or may be followed by myelitis. INFLAMMATION. Myelitis may be traumatic, idiopathic, or secondary. It occurs under so many different conditions, that it is difficult to speak definitely of its causation. It produces either softening or hardening of the cord. (1.) The cord is broken down, of a cream-like consistence, of a reddish or yellow color. The softening may aftect the entire thickness of the cord, or be confined to certain parts; it may extend the entire length of the cord, or be confined to certain regions. It seems to commence usually in the gray matter. The softened portions are composed of broken-down nerve tissue, blood globules, lymphoid cells, and compound granular cor- puscles. The cord may also be softened without any change in its color, and then consists merely of fine granular matter, with a few compound granular corpuscles. (2.) Myelitis causing induration, (sclerosis,) may affect the entire organ or circumscribed portions. The difi'use form ren- ders the cord anaemic and hard throughout. The circumscribed form is identical with tlie sclerose en plaques already described in the brain. Locomotor Ataxy.—In this disease, part of the white sub- stance of the cord undergoes a peculiar degeneration. The posterior columns are usually affected. We find them changed, in the earlier stages, into a reddish gray, soft substance. This change is produced by an increase of the neuroglia and an atrophy of the nerve fibres. At a later stage, the affected por- tions are firmer and shrunken. It is a form of sclerosis.THE SPINAL CORD, 65 NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma,"Sarcoma, Tubercle, and Syphilitic Growths have all been observed in the cord. They resemble closely the same varieties of tumor in the brain. A very remarkable form of new gi^owth on the cord has been shown to me by Dr. E. C. Seguin. The patient was a woman, thirty years of age. Two years before her death, she received a severe blow on the back of the head. After this, first one side and then all the limbs became paralyzed. From this condition she recovered sufficiently to walk; but after a short time, she again grew worse, and both arms and legs were paralyzed and contractured. Slie died of bronchitis. At the autopsy there were found two tumors on the spinal cord within the dura mater. The upper tumor Avas on the anterior face of the cord just below the decussation of the medulla. It was of ovoid shape, and of the size of a pigeon's egg. It was composed of branched connective tissue with many round cells. The lower tumor was on the posterior face of the cord, at the upper part of the lumbar enlargement. It was of the size and shape of a large, flattened cherry. It was composed of portions of two spinal cords fused together, with their long axes parallel to that of the normal cord. There were four patches of gray matter, having the shape of the cornua, containing ganglion cells, and joined two and two by regular gray commissures, in each of which was a central canal. These gray portions were surrounded by tissue resembling the normal white substance of the cord. 5THE EESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. THE LAEYNX. MALFORMATIONS. The larynx may be entirely absent in aceplialons, and other monsters. It may be abnormally large, or abnormally small. The epiglottis may be larger or smaller than the normal stan- 'dard, or may be cleft. Portions of the cartilages of the larynx may be absent or defective. INFLAMMATION". Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis causes the mucous membrane to appear congested, swollen, and soft. Its surface is thinly coated with muco-pus. The mucous glands are swollen with their increased secretion. The submucous connective tissue is more or less infiltrated with serum. Chronic Catarrhal Laryngitis causes the mucous membrane to appear grayish and soft. The mucous follicles are swollen and prominent. The submucous tissue is thickened. Tlie sur- face may be covered with muco-pus, and there are often small idcerations. Sometimes the inflammation extends to the peri- chondrium of the cartilages. Croupous Laryngitis occurs as the " croup" of children, with diphtheria, pyaemia, typhus fever, and other severe, acute diseases, and from the inhalation of irritating substances and gases. We find the mucous membrane covered by a layer of yellowish-white, consistent material—false membrane. This layer consists of fibrine and lymphoid cells ; it dips down into the mouths of the mucous follicles, and may be found also in67 THE LARYNX. the submucous tissue. The exudation adlieres firmly to the epithelium of the part, and when, after a time, it becomes loosened and falls off, the epithelium goes Avith it. The diagnosis between diphtheria and the croup of children belongs to clinical medicine. The anatomical lesion of diplithe- ria is a croupous exudation on and in whatever mucous mem- brane the disease happens to show itself. Inflammation of the Submucous Connective Tissue occurs as: (1.) (Edema glottidis. Here we find the epiglottis swollen, and from its base two bags of serum, formed of the aryteno- epiglottidean folds, extend backward. This oedema is often sufiicient to close the larynx and cause death. It accompanies acute catarrhal laryngitis, small-pox, typhoid fever, syphilitic and tuberculous ulcerations, facial erysipelas, and perichondritis. (2.) Purulent inflammation may attack the same parts which are implicated in oedema glottidis, and cause death in the same way. PericJiondritis.—Inflammation of the perichondrium of the cartilages of the larynx may be idiopathic or secondary to in- flammations of the mucous membrane. It usually attacks first the cricoid cartilage, and extends later to the other cartilages. The inflammation causes the production of pus and separation of the perichondrium from the cartilage, with the death of the latter. The cartilage is iisually found ossified, sometimes carious, sometimes degenerated and softened without ossifica- tion. The pus spi'eads to the submucous tissue, collects in abscesses, and may cause death by suffocation, or may perforate the mucous membrane. When the inflammation extends out- ward, abscesses and sinuses form on the outside of the larynx, and may perforate through the skin of the neck. Portions of the necrosed cartilages may find their way into the cavity of the larynx and be coughed out, or may become fixed in the rima glottidis and cause suffocation, or may pass into the bronchi. In other cases, the portions of cartilage may be dis- charged outward througli openings in the skin. Syphilitic Laryngitis.—Constitutional syphilis shows itself very frequently in the larynx. It produces here simple catarrhal inflammation, or the mucous follicles may swell and ulcerate, or68 POST-itORTEM EXAMINATIONS. the little Ijmpliatic follicles in the subiiuicous tissue may swell and ulcerate. The syphilitic condylomata produce much graver lesions. They form small, rounded nodules on the surface of the mucous membrane. These nodules may become ao:2re2:ated together so as to form masses of considerable size, and of soft, medullary consistence. Either the large or the small nodules may ulcerate. The ulceration, if extensive, may induce peri- chondritis, and also hypertro^jhy of the mucous membrane near the ulcerations. We find then the cavity of the larynx often entirely deformed by a series of changes which have caused destriiction of tissue in some places and hypertrophy in others. Tubercular Laryngitis usually accompanies ])ulinonary phthi. sis. In patients affected by phthisis we often find in the poste- I'ior wall of the larynx, between the arytenoid cartilages, one or more small, deep ulcers with overhanging walls, whilst there is often at the same time catarrhal laryngitis. In more severe cases, these little ulcers are numerous and become joined, or they are from the first of large size. In such cases, we may also ha^•e papillary hypertrophies of the mucous membrane and perichondritis. Tt is still uncertain how far these lesions are to be ascribed to submucous tubercles, and how far to follicular ulceration. NEW GROWTHS. V_ Ossification of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages is a regular senile change. The same thing is often caused by perichon- dritis. The epiglottis may become calcified, but does not change into true bone. Mucous Polypi are small, soft, rounded tumors with a pedi- cle. They are composed of a fibrous stroma covered with a thick layer of epithelium. Properly speaking, they are examples of papillary Fibroma. Fibrous Polypi usually occur in the upper part of the larynx, and may reach the size of a pigeon's egg. They are attached to the larynx by a broad or narrow pedicle, and are composed of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium. Chondroma.—Cartilaginous tumorsgrow from the thyroidTHE TRACHEA. 69 1 and ci'icoicl cartilages as flat or globular tumors. They usually grow inward, and may be mistaken for polypi. They may become ossified. Ej)iihelial Cancer may appear in any part of the larynx. It forms irregular, fungous, ulcerating masses, projecting into the cavity of the larynx. The new growth may also involve the parts about the larynx and form tumors in the neck. These external tumors are often surrounded by inflamed and suppurat- ing tissue. Carcinoma as a primarj^ disease seldom occurs in the larynx. It forms nodules in the submucous tissue, which may enlarge, project inward, and ulcerate. Sarcoma occurs in the form of polypoid tumors growing from the submucous tissue. PARASITES. In the catarrhal and croupous exudations of the larynx, the spores and tliallus of fungi are often found. Some authors re- gard them as the cause of diphtheritic inflammation. THETRACHEA. MALFORMATIONS. The trachea may be entirely absent. It may communicate with the ffisophagus. There may be little fistulous canals open- ing from it, which j)enetrate the skin of the neck. The carti- lages may be increased or diminished in number, or parts of them may be wanting. The trachea may divide into three bronchi instead of two. It may be misplaced on the left side of, or behind the aesophagus. ALTERATIONS IN SIZE. A uniform dilatation of the trachea is sometimes seen in old persons as a consequence of long-continued catarrhal inflamma- tion. ■ Rokitansky describes a peculiar dilatation of the posterior wall. The ends of the cartilages are widely separated, the mu-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 70 cous membrane appears piislied outward into numci'ous small sacs, separated by bands of muscle. Stenosis of the trachea may be produced by thickening from chronic inflammation, by ulceration and cicatrization, and by the pressure of tumors from without. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the trachea has the same characteristics as, and almost always accompanies that of the larynx and bronchi. NEW GEOWTIIS. Ossification of the tracheal cartilages is a senile change. Carcinoma is secondary, usually, to cancer of the oesophagus. A single case of primary carcinoma of the trachea and bronchi is described by Langhaus. There were small flattened nodules in the submucous tissue. Lymjyhoma in the submucous tissue at the lower end of the trachea has been seen in leucaemia. Chondroma appears usually in the form of small multiple tumors growing from the inner surface of the tracheal cartilages. A number of little tumors may grow so close together that they become joined and form a sort of network. They may be so loosely attached to the cai-tilage that they appear to be free in the submucous tissue. They may become ossified. THE BRONCHI. INFLAMMATION, Acute Catarrlial Bronchitis occurs at all ages; in childhood and old age, it is apt to attack the smaller bronchi ; in adult life, usually the larger. The mucous membrane appears swollen, soft, red, and covered with mucus or muco-pus, the pulmonary tissue is at the same time usually congested and somewhat fcdematous. In children, capillary bronchitis is very frequent- ly accompanied by peri-bronchitis, lobular pneumonia, and ata- lectasis. The lobules of pneumonia are of very variable size, and the lung tissue between them may be anamiic. The atalectasis71 THE BRONCHI. is produced by stoppage of tlie bronchi and consequent non- aeration of portions of lung tissue. The portions so affected are dense, firm, non-aerated, of a deep purple color, the section is smooth and dry, resembling foetal lung. Portions of lung in a condition of atalectasis may become inflamed, and thus a com- plicated condition be produced. Chronic Catarrhal Bronchitis is usually a disease of adult life. The mucous membrane of the bronchi is of a deep red color, or pale, or grayish, soft, thickened or thinned, granular or reticulated. This reticulated or trabeculated appearance is found in the lungs of persons subject to long-continued cough. The longitudinal and transverse fibrous bands of the bronchial wall become separated, the tissues between them atrophied, so that the wall assumes a trabeculated appearance. "When the bronchi are cut across, muco-pus exudes from them. It is very common.to find the lungs emphysematous, or with some degree of fibrous induration, or congested and oedematous. In some cases the exudation becomes foul and stinking, and the walls of the bronchi black and gangrenous. Sometimes the exudation is entirely purulent, or of a greenish watery character. It is ex- pectorated in large quantities, and causes gradual emaciation and death o^ the patient. Especially in these last cases we find dila- tation of the bronchi. Chronic bronchitis and emphysema may give a clinical history very closely resembling that of phthisis. They are sufficient of themselves to cause death, and even sud- den death. From the obstructions in the bronchi, the air-cells may be abnormally dilated and the whole lung expanded : this condition is not to be confounded with emphysema. Croupous Bronchitis occurs in children in connection with croupous laryngitis and tracheitis. The larger bronchi, and more rarely the smaller, are lined or filled with a mass com- posed of coagulated fibrine and lymphoid cells. Sometimes the exudation will be continuous through a set of bronchi and a complete cast of them will be coughed up. In adults, the disease is idiopathic, or a complication of croup- ous pneumonia. "When idiopathic, it may run an acute course, or last for months and years, Avith repeated expectorations of72 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. casts of tlie bronchi. The chronic form affects only a few of the bronchi. The mucous membrane will be found congested or anaemic. The lungs are usually diseased ; either emphysema, or fibrous induration, or small apoplexies, or abscesses are present. The idiopathic form in adult life is rare. Croupous pneumonia is always attended with croupous exu- dation into the small bronchi, and in some cases the larger bronchi also will be found partly filled with long, whitish cords of the same material. Peri-Bronchitis.—Inflammation with the formation of lym- phoid cells and connective tissue in the walls of the bronchi and just around them is found as an acute and chronic condition. It not infrequently occurs in the acute pneumonia of children, and we see the hepatized lung mottled with white lines and spot?. In the chronic inflammation of phthisis, we usually find the walls of the bronchi thickened, sometimes enormously so. BRONCniECTASIA. Dilatation of the bronchi presents itself under three forms, the cylindrical, the fusiform, and the sacculated. The cylindrical form consists in the uniform dilatation of one or more bronchi. It is found in bronchi of every size, but most frequently in those of medium diameter. The large and me- dium-sized bronchi may be dilated and the smaller remain nor- mal, or the terminal bronchi alone be aftected. The fusiform dilatation is a mere variety of the cylindrical. The bronchus is imiformly dilated for a short distance, and then resumes its normal size. Several such dilatations may be found in the same bronchus. The sacculated dilatations form the largest cavities. These cavities usually communicate with the bronchus only on one side, the peripheral portion of the bronchus becoming obliterat- ed. The bronchus leading to the cavity may be of normal size, ■or dilated, or stenosed, or even completely obliterated, so that there is no opening into the bronchiectasia. Tliese sacculated dilatations may attain to a very large size, and may be so numerous that the entire lung looks honey- combed.73 THE BRONCHI. The walls of these bronchiectasife are found in various morbid conditions, but usually preserve something of their normal structure. (1.) The wall is simply swollen and relaxed. This condition is most frequent in the dilatations caused by bronchitis in chil- dren. As the bronchitis subsides, these dilatations may disap- pear. (2.) The wall is hypertrophied. The mucous membrane is thickened, and may be covered with little papillary outgrowths. The submucous tissue, mucous glands, and cartilage may also be hypertrophied. (3.) The wall is atrophied, and the thinning may be so ad- vanced as to leave nothing but an attenuated, semi-transparent mucous membrane. (■Jr.) The wall is trabeculated. The surface is no longer smooth, but is divided up by bands crossing each other, and leaving little depressions between them. These bands are the longitudinal and circular fibrous bands of the normal bronchi. The cartilages are usually thickened. (5.) They may ulcerate, and this ulceration may extend to the lung tissue, so as to form cavities, which are partly bron- chiectasiae, and partly formed by the destruction of lung tissue. (6.) The bronchus leading to a dilatation ma}' become entire- ly obliterated, and leave a cyst with smooth walls and serous contents. (7.) Tlie walls may become calcified, or inflamed, or gan- grenous. The lung tissue will be found altered in various ways, and these alterations either jjrecede, or follow, or are complications of the dilatations. (1.) The lung tissue is in a condition of fibrous induration. This fibrous induration may precede and cause the dilatations, or may be with them the I'esult of chronic inflamniation. (2.) The ectasise may give rise to lobular pneumonia and con- gestion. The lobules affected by pneumonia maybe in the con- dition of red and gray hepatization, or may become gangrenous. (3.) A moderate degree of emphysema is a frequent concomi-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 74 tant of broncliiectasia; higher degrees are not so common, and are more apt to occur in other parts of the lung. (4.) Old pleuritic adhesions are very frequently found, and are regarded as one of the most common causes of bronchiec- tasife. (5.) In a few rare cases, pneumothoi'ax has been caused by perforation of a superficial bronchial dilatation. The situation of bronchiectasiiB depends upon the previous disease of the lungs or pleura. Capillary bronchitis, catarrhal pneumonia, and atalectasis cause dilatations of the bronchi, in the inferior and posterior portions of the lung. Chronic inflam- mation, phthisis, and fibrous indurations cause dilatations prin- cipally in the upper lobes. Old pleuritic thickenings and ad- hesions cau.se dilatations in the portion of lung which they cover. Taking all the cases together, the lower lobes are the most frequently alFected. Both lungs are as frequently involv- ed as one. The largest bronchi are the ones least frequently in- volved. STENOSIS. Narrowing of the bronchi is produced either by the compres- sion of external bodies, or by the contraction of their walls. External pressure is produced by aneurisms of the aorta, en- larged lymphatic glands, abscesses and new growths of the me- diastinum, tumors of the oesophagus, and cancer of the lungs. Internal contraction is produced by (1) ulceration and cicatri- zation, usually of syphilitic origin ; (2) inflammatory thickening of the bronchial walls; this is a very rare occurrence ; (3) poly- poid new growths ; these also are very rare. Stenosis of the bronchi very often produces dilatation of the bronchi beyond the stenosis, lobules of emphysema, or of ata- lectasis, capillary bronchitis and pneumonia. NEW GROWTHS. Ossification of the bronchial walls has been seen in a few rare instances. Carcinoma is secondary to the same new growth in the lungs, mediastinum, or oesophagus. A single case of primary carcino- ma of the trachea and bronchi is given by Langhaus.THE LUNGS. 75 Lipoma in the submucous tissue lias been seen in one case by Kokitansky, THE LUNGS. MALFOKMATIONS. One or botli lungs may be entirely wanting, or only pai-tially developed. A peculiar degeneration, by wliicli the lung is converted into a number of sacs containino' air and serum, and communicatino- with the bronchi, has been seen in a few instances. The lobes may be subdivided by deep fissures. An accessory lobe, separated from "the lung, has been seen between the base of the left lung and the diaphragm. There may be hernia of the lung, with absence of part of the thoracic wall. There may be transposition of the lungs, with the same change in the position of the heart and liver. In rare cases, the congenital smallness of the lungs remains, and persons continue to live for a number of years. INJURIES. PERFOKATIONS. Contusions of the thorax may cause rupture of the lung tissue and fatal haemorrhage. The lungs may be wounded by pi'ojec- tiles and penetrating instruments of all kinds, and by frag- ments of bone. Even severe injui'ies of this nature may not prove fatal. Collections of pus in the pleural cavities and mediastinum, and abscesses of the liver, spleen, and kidneys, may perforate the lungs. Fistulous openings from the lungs through the thoracic wall may be formed during phthisis, emphysema, gangrene of the lungs, abscesses, hydatids, and wounds. CONGESTION AND OEDEMA. These conditions are found in the dead body not only as post- mortem changes, but also as evidences of the same conditions during life.76 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Congestion and a?dema confined to tlie posterior portions of the lower lobes are nsually merely post-mortem changes, and ai'e most marked in hot weather. When, however, the congestion and oedema are excessive, and especially when they involve the upper lobes, Ave may conclnde that they existed dnring life. To determine, however, their importance in prodncing death, a reference to the clinical history is necessary. Congestion and oedema, in different relative proportions, occnr with cardiac dis- ease, with changes in the nervous centres retarding the act of respiration, with coma from any cause, with renal disease, with any chronic, exhausting disease, general anasarca from any cause, bronchitis and pneumonia, narcotic poisons and sunstroke. In some of these cases, as in renal disease, general anasarca, bronchitis and pneumonia, the congestion and oedema appear to be the direct cause of death. In exhausting diseases, also, the case is the same, although here there is very often filling up of the air-cells with the products of inflammation. In persons dying comatose, however, from any cause, the condition of affairs is different. The congestion and a-dema, although often very excessive, are merely the accompaniments of diseases which are of themselves sufficient to destroy life. II.55M0RRnAGE. Effusions of blood which lacerate the lung tissue are not common. Tliey are produced by penetrating wounds, conti:- sions, atheroma, and dilatation of the pulmonary arteries, rup- ture of aortic aneurisms, and rarely by a simple effusion of blood into the alveoli. We find a considerable portion of the lung tissue broken, down and infiltrated with blood, and the blood may also rupture through the ]>leura. Cavities in the lungs produced by plithisis, syphilis, or gan- crene are sometimes found filled with blood from the idccration of a large vessel. The most common form of haemorrhage, however, is tliat called " pulmonary apoplexy," or htemorrhagic infarction. Tliis consists in the filling up of the air-cells with blood. We find at any portion of the bmgs, and even in lungs compressed by pleuritic fluid, a few nodules, from the size of a chestnut to thatTHE LUKGS. 77 of a lien's egg. These nodules are firm and of a dark red color. The lung tissue around them is hypersemic, or fairly in the con- dition of red or gray hepatization. Minute e,\amination shows the alveoli, bronchi, and blood-vessels in these nodules to be completely filled with blood globules. These infarctions may cause death by their size and number, or by the pneumonia and pleurisy which they excite. In other cases, the blood globules break down and become fi.uid, are partly absorbed, partly coughed out, and partly changed into pigment. The air-cells which had been filled up may again be expanded with air, or may contract and form a spot of fibrous induration. In still other cases, the lung tissue becomes gangrenous and forms cavi- ties with irregular walls and brownish semi-fluid contents. Hosmorrhagic Infarctions also form the most constant lesion of pyfemia, although with a somewhat difierent history. They are usually situated near the surface of the lung, are small and often numerous. At first they resemble the non-pyeemic in- farctions, and look like dark red nodules. Very soon, however, there is a narrow zone of pneumonia around them, then their centres become decolorized, soft, and white ; soon this softening involves the entire infarction and forms a small cavity filled with whitish puriform fluid. The causation of these pysemic infarctions is very clear. They are produced by the plugging of a small artery with an embolus, and this embolus 'is usually part of a broken-down thrombus in some vein sitiTated in inflamed tissue. It is the necrotic and xmhealthy character of the embolus which gives to the infarc- tion its tendency to rapid decomposition and suppuration. The non-pyjEmic infarctions are in some cases undoubtedly produced by the same mechanism. The embolus then comes from vegetations in the right cavities of the heart. Whether such infarctions are always produced by emboli is still un- certain. EMPHYSEMA. Emphysema is of two kinds, vesicular and interlobular. (1.) Vesicular Emphysema consists in an abnormal dilatation of the alveoli of the lung, with thinning and atrophy of their walls.78 POST-.ArORTEM EXA^iIINATIOXS. We must distinguish from tliis a simple dilatation of tlie alveoli, wliicli we tind dependent on various conditions. The bronchi may be partially obstructed so that the escape of air is impeded, and after death the lungs remain unnaturally inflated. Or a considerable portion of the lung tissue is rendered imper- vious to air by pneumonia, oedema, or pleurisy, and the rest of the lung is unnaturallj' dilated. Or, the walls of the alveoli may lose their elasticity so that they no longer expel the air, but remain dilated. In true vesicular emphysema, we find the lungs pale, anae- mic, large, of a soft cushiony textiire, the alveoli distinctly visible with the naked eye. The walls of the alveoli are thinned, the capillary vessels are small, and the spaces between them are increased in size. Often a portion of the walls of the alveoli entirely disappear, so that several alveoli become fused into one. These changes are apt to be most marked at the edges of the lobes. This change in the lung tissue may atfect both lungs, or one lung, or part of a lung. Yer}^ often when part of a lung is contracted and indurated, the neighboring portions will be emphysematous. Emphysema is almost always associated with some degree of chronic bronchitis. It also leads to hypertrophy of the right ventricle of the heart, to expansion of-the walls of the thorax, and to displacement downward of the diaphragm and the abdo- minal viscera. Emphysema and chronic bronchitis may of themselves cause death. In other cases, the lungs become tlie seat of an acute croupous pneumonia, and this causes death, often when only part of a single lobe is hepatized. Fibrous induration, either in bands or nodules, is also sometimes associated with emphysema. Interlobular Emphysema consists in the escape of air from tlie alveoli into the interstitial connective tissue, or beneath the pleura. In the latter situation, it may form vesicles of consid- erable size. This form of emphysema is not of very frequent occurrence, nor of much pathological importaTice. It may be produced by any thing whicli causes rupture of the alveoli. In rare cases, there may be rupture of the pleura and pneumotho-79 THE LUNGS. rax, or the air may pass into the mediastinum, and from thence upward into the neck, producing general emphysema. ATAI.ECTASIS. A collapsed and unaerated condition of portions of lung tis- sue is either congenital or acquired. (1.) In congenital atalectasis we find portions of the lungs firm, non-crepitant, of a dark blue or purple color, depressed, smooth on section, and containing a variable amount of blood. These portions can usually be artificially inflated, and then can- not be distinguished from the surrounding pulmonary tissue. This condition is produced by the inability of the child after birth to fully inflate its lungs; either from want of suflicient vitality, or from mechanical obstruction in the bronchi. If the child lives for some time, and the collapsed lobules do not be- come inflated, they become hard, and can no longer be inflated. (2.) Young children may acquire ,the same condition as the result of bronchitis. A small bronchus becomes obstructed, and the air-vesicles which it supplies collapse. We then find, scat- tered through the lungs, collapsed lobules resembling those found in the new-born child. There may be at the same time lobules in a condition of inflammatory hepatization; and the collapsed lobules may also become inflamed. (3.) In adults, large or small portions of lung tissue may be- come collapsed, as the result of bronchitis; of stenosis of a large bronchus; of paralysis of the pneuraogastric; of atrophy of the respiratory muscles; of compression of the lungs by fluid, by new growths, or by thickened pleura. The collapsed portions are unaerated, firm, smooth; of a leathery consistence; of a dark red or blue color, and in various degrees of congestion. The names of " carnification" and " splenization" have been somewhat loosely applied to this condition. PIGMENT INDTJKATION. This change in the pulmonary tissue is one of the regular sequeljB of grave cardiac disease. Any disease of the heart which produces an obstruction to the free passage of blood from80 ■POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. tlie left auricle into the left ventricle may produce tins lesion. Stenosis and insufficiency of the mitral valve, and stenosis of the aortic valve, are the cardiac lesions most frequently found. The lungs appear small, the pleura somewhat thickened ; the surface of the lungs is of a pale pinkish color, mottled with brown or red. Their cut surface is of a bright red color. They contain less air than usual, and have a firm, leathery texture. Very little blood exudes from their cut surface ; they are some- times dry, sometimes oedematous. Not infrequently there are lobules of hepatization and pulmonaiy apoplexies, or the greater part of a lobe may be hepatized. The lesion consists in, (1,) dilatation of the capillaries; (2,) thickening of the walls of the air-cells; (3,) increase of pig- ment ; (4.) an accumi;lation of large cells in the alveoli, as in a low grade of catarrhal pneumonia. This last is the most con- stant lesion, and the one of greatest pathological importance; for by it the alveoli become gradually filled up, and respiration is seriously impeded. The large epithelial cells produced by the inflammation often contain granules of dark pigment. INFLAMMATIOJT. Inflammation of the lungs afiects either the alveoli or the in- terstitial connective tissue. When it affects the alveoli, they become filled with inflammatory exudation ; when the intersti- tial tissue is involved, it becomes increased in amount. 1. Croupous Pneumonia is one of the most common dis- eases of adult life. It usually involves the greater part of a lobe, and may extend over one or both lungs. It passes through three stages. (I.) Congestion.—This stage usually escapes our observation in the human subject, but nuay be artificially produced in ani- mals. The lung is dark colored, and exudes a large amount of blood and serum. The blood-vessels, both large and capillary, are ffortred with blood : the alveoli and small bronchi contain a small amount of a material which is coagulated by alcohol into an amorphous, granular, or dimly fibrillated substance. (2.) The first stage is soon followed by the second, that of Red Hepatization. The lung loses its spongy consistence, and81 THE LUNGS. becomes solid. Firm pressure causes it to break down under the finger. The color is red, sometimes mottled with hsemor- rhagic spots of a deeper hue. A section looks as if the lung tis- sue were composed of a multitude of small granules closely packed together; and these gi'anules can be picked out with the point of a needle. If the lung is seen soon after death, the sec- tion is dry; in a short time, however, part of the exudation liquefies, and the section will be covered with a thick, grumous, reddish-gray fluid. The larger bronchi are not infrequently filled with firm, yellow, fibrinous cords, continuous with smaller cords in the smaller bronchi. Minute examination shows the alveoli and small bronchi to be filled up with a mass of new ma- terial, composed of fibrine coagulated into a delicate net-work, lymphoid (pus) cells, large polygonal nucleated cells, and red blood globules. The fibrine varies somewhat in amount, but is always present. The lymphoid cells are very numerous; some of them are as pale as perfectly fresh pus-cells ; but most of them are granular and somewhat swollen. The large, poly- gonal, nucleated cells are identical with the cells found in very small numbers in the adult lung, and more abundantly in the infant lung. They appear to be epithelial cells. They are found in variable numbers, most abundantly in the pneumonia which attacks emphysematous and phthisical lungs. The red blood globules give the coloring to the mass. The walls of the alveoli are unchanged; the capillary plexus in the walls con- tains but little blood. (3.) Finally comes the third stage, that of Gray Hepatization. The lung retains the same consistence, but is usually much moister; the section is covered with grumous fluid. The color changes from red to gray; not at once, but gradually, so that the lung is first mottled red and gray, and then is entirely gray. Minute examination shows the air-cells and bronchi still filled with new material: but this material has underorone chano;es. The red blood globules have vanished. The lymphoid cells and large cells remain, but are distended with shining granules. There is a considerable amount of granular matter formed by the breaking down of these cells and of the fibrine. This pro- cess of degeneration and disintegration of the elements of the 6POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 82 exudation goes on until the alveoli are filled with a fluid mass, which can be coughed out, and the pneumonia is resolved. Sometimes, however, the change of color is not accompanied by changes in the exudation. A lung may be entirely gray—al- most white—and yet the section is dry, the fibrine remains, and tlie cells are but little degenerated. This condition is some- times found in persons whose lungs remain hepatized for an un- usually long time without either resolution or death taking place. In most cases, the pulmonary pleura covering the hepa- tized lungs will be found covered with a thin layer of fibrinous exudation. Croupous pneumonia may prove fatal at any stage ; its fata- lity depending on the amount of lung hepatized, the general condition of the patient, and the amount of congestion and a3dema of^the rest of the lung tissiie. Sometimes abscesses form in the hepatized tissue. This takes place by a molecular degeneration and destruction of the walls of some of the air-cells, with an increased production of lym- phoid cells and serum. Such abscesses may prove fatal of themselves, or may perforate the pleura, or may be absorbed, or may become concrete and calcified. Gangrene of the lung, also, may result from hepatization, although in these cases there seems always to be thrombosis of the bronchial arteries. The exudation in the air-cells, after reaching the stage of gray hepatization, may undergo a dry, granular degeneration. The air-cells are then filled with a firm, dry, yellow mass com- posed of granules and atrophied cells ; and there is cheesy hepatization. 2. Cata7'rhal pneumonia differs from the croupous form in the character of its exudation. The material which fills the air-cells contains little or no fibrine, a smaller number of lym- phoid cells, and a much larger number of the large, nucleated cells. The disease runs through the same stages of congestion : red, gray, and cheesy hepatization. The section is smoother, and without the granular appearance of croupous hepatization. There is a much stronger tendency to pass into the cheesy con- dition. Catarrhal pneumonia usually affects only lobules of the83 THE LUNGS. lungs; sometimes only a few alveoli. There is always capil- lary bronchitis ; and the small bronchi are filled with pus. There may also be peribronchitis. In children under five years old, pneumonia as a rule is of the catarrhal variety. The pneumonia around pyggmic infarc- tions, in pigment induration, and in phthisis, is usually also catarrhal. The attempt to class this form of inflammation of the lung with the catarrhal inflammations of mucous membranes is not altogether satisfactory. The alveoli of the lungs are not lined with a mucous membrane, nor does their inflammation ever have a true catarrhal character. All sorts of gradations, also, can be found between the croupous and so-called catarrhal exu- dations. The name is used, therefore, not as a good one, but for want of a better. 3. Hypostatic Pneumonia.—In persons who have been for a long time confined to bed by severe and protracted illness, we often find the lungs, especially the lower lobes, congested and cedematous. A careful examination will often discover, also, small, irregular patches of red hepatization. In these patches, the alveoli are filled almost entirely with lymphoid cells, hardly any fibrine being present. 4. Interstitial Pneumonia.—An increase of connective tis- sue fibres and cells is often seen in circumscribed portions of the lung, especially at the apex, either as the result of a lobular pneumonia or as a simple induration. With chronic bronchitis, emphysema, anthacosis, around al scesses, in syphilis, and with extensire pleuritic adhesions, it also occurs. Its most marked forms, however, occur in phthisis, and will be described with that disease. In rare cases, there is suppurative inflammation of the inter- stitial tissue, forming thin layers of pus between the lobules of the lung, with abscesses beneath the pleura. GANGRENE OF THE LUNGS. Portions of the lungs may not only die, but may also under- go decomposition and become putrid. Such a gangrenous pro- cess may be caused by infarctions, by pneumonia, with, throm-84 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. bosis of tlie bi'oncliial arteries ; and very often occurs "vvitliont any satisfactory reason. The gangrene may be circumscribed or diffuse. In the circumscribed form we find small nodules, usually near the periphery, changed into a brownish, putrid mass, sharply defined from the surrounding tissue. After a time, the periphery of the nodule becomes fluid, and there is a cavity filled with fluid and gangrenous tissue. The gangrene may ex- tend to the pleura and cause acute pleurisy or hydropneumo- thorax. The gangrenous cavity may communicate with a bronchus and cause bronchitis; or a large vessel may be eroded and the cavity be filled with blood. Sometimes a circumscrib- ed o-ano-rene becomes the centre of a difi"used ganojrene. In rare cases, the cavity may contract and cicatrize. Diflfused gangrene may involve an entire lobe. The lung- tissue will be foimd changed into a moist, stinking mass. The neighboring lung-tissue is oedematous or hepatized, the pleura is infiamed or gangrenous. PULMONARY PHTHISIS. Under this name all physicians are well acquainted with a disease characterized by cough, mucous, purulent, or bloody ex- pectoration, dyspnoea, hectic fever, gi'adual emaciation, and physical signs indicating condensation of the lung tissue, and exudation in the bronchi. The hmgs of persons who have suffered from this disease pre- sent, after death, a variety of lesions. These lesions it is con- venient to group under three heads, according to their most marked an atomical condition, namely. Catarrhal, Fibrous, and Tubercular Phthisis. These . three forms occur either sepa- rately or together. 1. Catarrhal Phthisis.—This form may run a rapid course or one of long duration. It may entirely resolve and leave no trace behind, or may invade and destroy the larger part of the lung tissue. The pathological process consists in a catarrhal infiammation affecting the alveoli and small bronchi. The pneumonia passes through the stages of congestion, red hepati- zation, and gray hepatization. After reaching the stage of grayTHE LUNGS. * 85 hepatization, the exudation undergoes a process of dry degenera- tion, converting it into a firm, dry, cheesy mass. This mass is usually of an opaque, yellow color, less frequently of a peculiar gray. The lung tissue is then said to be in a condition of cheesy hepatization. The portions of lung which pass into this condition of cheesy hepatization vary much in size. A large part of a lobe may be hepatized throughout; or there are large yellow lobules, the size of a hen's egg, scattered through the lungs; or there are great numbers of small yellow nodules, from the size of a pin's head to that of a pea, thickly studding the lung, often aggregated together, the li;ng tissue between them either anaemic, or normal, or congested, or hepatized. The larger masses are the infiltrated tubercles; the smaller, the miliary tubercles of Laennec. In all of them the lesion is the same: the alveoli and small bronchi are filled with exudation which has undergone cheesy degeneration. In the larger lobules, a great number of alveoli are thus filled i;p ; in the miliary no- dules, only a few alveoli or a small bronchus are hepatized. In the lungs of children, we find a form of miliary hepatiza- tion in which a small bronchus or a few alveoli are filled with cheesy matter, and there is at the same time a production of round and fusiform cells in the wall of the bronchus or of the alveoli. After the stage of cheesy hepatization, whether lobular or miliary, is reached, four different events may follow. The ex- udation in the alveoli may take xip sufficient serum to become fluid, be coughed out, and the lung resumes its normal character. Or, if the hepatization is of small amount, it remains quiescent, shrinks, becomes calcareous, and a fibrous capsule forms around it. Or, the exudation softens, and at the same time the walls of the alveoli, having lost their vitality, degenerate and disinte- grate, and in this way are formed cavities with ragged walls and puriform contents. These cavities usually communicate with a bronchus, and sometimes merely enlarge a cavity already formed by a bronchiectasia. Or, the process of exudation into the air-cells may be accompanied by inflammation of the in- terstitial connective tissue and flbrous induration. When the disease is of long standing, this new formation of fibrous tissuePOST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. 86 is tlie rule. We find tlie pleura tliickened, bands and septa of fibrous tissue extend inward fix>ni the pleura into tlie lung tissue, tlie connective tissue around tlie vessels' and bronclii is in- creased ; around the various cheesy nodules there is a zone o-f new fibrous tissue, the walls of the alveoli hypertrophy, and so the process may go on until a large part of the lung may be converted into fibrous tissue and cheesy nodules. The new fibrous tissue may be black or slate-colored, or white or gray. In that which is formed around the bronchi and the vessels, and in the walls of the alveoli we can often see an early stage of the process, consisting in a development of great numbers of small round cells. Fibrous Phthisis is usually associated with some degree of catarrhal phthisis, but may occur alone or form the principal part of the lesion. Like the catarrhal form, it may occur m small nodules, or be dift'used over a large part of a lobe. The nodules are from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, of a dark slate-color, mottled with whitish points, of very hard con- sistence. They may be scattered in large numbers through both lungs, or there may be only two or three in all. They consist of pigmented fibrous tissue, with here and there groups of small, round cells, and sometimes the thickened walls of the alveoli can still be seen. The diffused form may involve part of a lobe or an entire lung. The pleura is thickened, and bands of white or slate-eolored fibrous tissue extend inward. At the same time, the connective tissue around the bronchi and vessels and the Avails of the alveoli increases until the pulmonary tissue is almost entirely lost in a fibrous mass. In this way, the apex of a lung, for example, may be changed into a firm mass tra- versed by dense bands of fibrous tissue, leaving a little lung tissue between them. This form of fibrous phthisis is usually associated with chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasia. The dilatation of the bronchi may be cylindrical or fusiform, or sacculated, or all these forms combined. The walls of the bron- chi are frequently trabeculated. In this way, we may find an entire lung converted into a honeycomb of cavities, separated by thick bands of fibrous tissue. Tulercular Phthisis is the form wliich is least frequent andTHE LUNGS, 87 most difBcult to study. It is seen in its most typical form in the lungs of children. Here we find both lungs studded with very small, grayish, semi-translucent granulations. "When these granulations are discrete, and only their centres yellow and cheesy, they may readily be recognized. But when they be- come aggregated and entirely cheesy, it is difiicult to dis- tinguish them from the catarrhal miliary phthisis of children. In adults the same is the case. Occasionally we meet with pure and typical cases concerning which there is no doubt. The granulations are scattered in great numbers through both lungs. They ai-e very minute, can hardly be felt on the surface of the section, are gray, semi-translucent; some have a white spot at the centre; the lung tissue between them appears normal. The granulations seem to grow from the walls of the bronchi and vessels, and sometimes from the walls of the air- cells. They consist of small, round, and fusiform cells, and sometimes of larger masses of finely granular matter, contain- ing nuclei, (myeloplaxes.) The cells are considered by Virchow to be the same as the cells of lymphatic glands, and he calls the granulations heteroplastic lymphomata. Others regard the cells as belonging to connective tissue. The cells are contained in a matrix which is sometimes finely granular, sometimes a dis- tinct fibrous network. There is almost always some catarrhal pneumonia of the adjoining Imng tissue, though it may appear normal to the naked eye. Tliere are usually small granulations of the same appearance in the serous membranes and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. This is the only fonn of tubercles in the adidt lung, which can be certainly recognized. The small, whitish spots which are often seen in fibrous induration seem to be merely such accumulations of round cells as are to be seen in any new growth of fibrous tissue. There are, however, sometimes small opaque, cheesy, miliary nodules of which it cannot be certainly said whether they are tubercles or miliary hepatizations. rULMONAKY SYPHn^IS. There is much difficulty in determining what lesions of the lungs are dependent iipon syphilis. It is generally admittedPOST-^tOETEM E^XAMINATIONTS. 88 that two lesions can be ascribed to tliis disease; namely, Fibrons induration, and Gummy tumors. The fibrous induration may occur in the form of multiple, hard, slate-colored, or white nodules, or of a diftused indura- tion of part of a lobe. It does not differ anatomically from the lesions of fibrous phthisis, and is only to be diagnosticated with tiie concurrence of other syphilitic lesions and history. The gummy tumors are found in small numbers, fi'om one to six or eight. They form nodules of the size of a pea to a wal- nut, partly white, partly gray-colored, imbedded in fibrous in- duration. They are cheesy in irregular patches, separated by bands of fibrous tissue, and consist of small, round, and fusiform cells. As many cheesy nodules of other origin are found in the lungs, gummy tumors are only to be pronounced to be such after very careful examination. In still-born children, parts of the lungs are sometimes found in a condition of white hepatization, the alveoli being filled Avith great numbers of epithelial cells. This lesion is usually attrib- uted to syphilis. NEW GROWTUS. Cysts are of very rare occurrence in the lungs. They may contain serum, fat, cholesterine, and hair. Fibroma is also very rare. Rokitansky describes the tumors as small, white, and firm; or yellow, flabby, and puckered. Encliondroma may be primary or secondary. Tlie primary tmnors are small, multiple, usually at the root of the lung, often attaclied to the bronclu and vessels. They are sometimes found after death, when they liad given rise to no symptoms during life. The secondary tumors are more common. They may reach a large size, sometimes occupying an entire lung. Osteoma is rare. It forms either irregular plates, or some- what globular, spongy tumors. It is not to be confounded with calcification of the lung tissue. Sarcoma is not infrequent. It occurs in the form of rounded nodules, usually multiple. It is secondary to sarcomata in other organs, especially to those connected with the bones.89 THE LUNGS. These tiimors have the same structure as the primary tumors, but may be pigmented when the latter are not. Carcinoma is usually secondary, but may be primary. It may be medullary, melanotic, epithelial, or colloid. It occurs as nodules of various size and number, or may infiltrate large portions of the lung. It may spread to the pleura, the peri- cardium, the heart, and the walls of the thorax, and appear on tlie outside of the chest. Pigment is found regularly to a considerable amount in the adult lung. In old age, the quantity may increase very consid- erably. It is a very common thing to find, under the pleura, little nodules composed entirely of pigment. Fibrous indura- tion, and the pigment induration of heart-disease, are accom- panied by an increased formation of pigment. In miners, charcoal-workers, grinders, and persons who constantly inliale foreign particles, the lungs become intensely pigmented—an- thracosis. In them the pigment is partly the foreign particles themselves, and partly produced by the chronic bronchitis. In all the cases, the pigment is found in the connective tissue and epithelial cells, in the form of granules or masses. It is pro- bably derived from the coloring matter of the blood, in conse- quence of an abnormal stagnation in the capillaries. Myoma I have seen in one instance. It occurred in a man aged 52, who had symptoms of bronchitis and laryngitis. The tumors formed large white nodules in the upper lobe of the lung. The nodules consisted almost entirely of smooth muscle. PAKASITES. Echhioeocci occ\ir in the lungs as a cyst, surrounded by a thick fibrous capsule. The capsule may suppurate and the sac be emptied into a bronchus, into the pleura, through the chest- wall, through the diapliragm, or into the intestines. Cysiicercus CelUdosm is not frequent in the lungs. Strongylits Longevaginatus has been seen in a child's lung. In gangrenous cavities of the lungs, vegetable parasites, be- longing to the varieties aspergillus, mucor, and sarcina, have been observed.90 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. THE PLEURA. IIYDKDTHOEAX. N'on-inflammatory exudations of serum into the pleiiral cavi- ties accompany tlie various diseases wliiclr cause general hydre- mia. A small amount of serum, either clear or bloody, is often found as a mere post-mortem change. All chronic and exhausting diseases, renal disease, cardiac dis- ease, and cirrhosis, are very often attended with hydrothorax. The fluid is a clear serum, sometimes yellow, which may reach such an amount as to compress the greater part of the lung. H^MOEKHAGE. Small, dark-red extravasations in the pleura are found with purpura, death by suffocation, and in the lungs of young chil- dren. Haemorrhages into the cavity of the pleura are caused by the rupture of aneurisms, by the rupture of the pericardium previously distended with blood, and by wounds of the chest- walL INFLAJOIATION. Pleurisy occurs as a primary disease, or from inflammation of the lung tissue, or from perforation of the chest by wounds, by abscesses of the wall of the thorax, of the liver, spleen, kidneys, and aroimd carious vertebrse. It occurs also without perforation with perihepatitis and perisplenitis. Pyoemia and puerperal fever also often cause pleurisy. Inflammation of the pleura is attended with exudation of se- rum, fibrine, lymphoid cells, and sometimes with extravasation of blood. The amoiint of these different substances varies in different cases. (1.) There may be a scanty exudation of fibrine alone. The surface of the pleura is found coated Avith a thin, membranous, grayish layer, consisting of fibrine entangling a few lymphoid cells. This may be entirely absorbed, or it may cause perma- nent adliesions between pulmonary and costal pleura, or be- tween the difterent lobes. The adhesions are most frequentlyTHE PLEURA. 91 found after a number of such attacks. This form of pleurisy usually gives no marked symptoms during life, and is frequent- ly overlooked. It is very common to find, at the post-mortem, old adhesions, the existence of which was not suspected during life. (2.) The exudation consists of fibrine and sei'um. The plen- ral cavity is partly or completely filled with turbid serum, mixed with flocculi of fibrine, and a few lymphoid cells. The pleura itself is coated with a yellow, membranous layer, com- posed of fibrine and lymphoid cells. Sometimes there are extravasations of blood on the surface of the pleura, and in the fluid. The serum usually occupies the lower portion of the pleural cavity, but sometimes is confined by adhesions and false membranes to other portions of tlie cavity. If the serum occupies the lower half of the cavity, the lower lobe of the lung is compressed and unaerated, and the entire lung pushed up- ward. If the cavity is full of serum, the entire lung is coni- pressed toward its root, and against the vertebral column. Such a pleurisy, with efiiision, may entirely disappear, leaving only some adhesions behind it; or it may continue so long without absorption of the fluid that the patient dies from its effect, or the effusion becomes purulent. If absorption takes place, the lung tissue resumes its normal consistence, although sometimes, when the effusion is of very long standing, the lung may remain compressed and bound down by adhesions. (3.) There is an exudation of purulent serum. The pleural cavity is found filled with yellow, often stinking fluid, the pleura is coated with fibrine and pus. The fluid is usually in large quantities, and in the lower part of the pleural cavity. Sometimes, however, it occurs in the form of circumscribed collections of pus between the pulmonary and costal, or dia- phragmatic pleura, entirely shut in by adhesions. Such a pur- ulent pleurisy, or empyema, is either fatal, or may be absorbed, or may perforate the chest-wall and escape externally, or may perforate the lung and escape through a bronchus, or may perforate the diaphragm, and find its way downward behind the peritoneum. Wunderlich describes a suppurative peri- pleuritis which forms abscesses between the costal and dia-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIO^TS. 92 pliragmatic pleura and tlie chest-wall, and between tlie pul- monary pleura and lung. In pleurisy of long standing, the thickening and adhesions of the pleura are prominent lesions. In fibrous phthisis and in chronic catarrhal phthisis, the pulmonary pleura is often enor- mously thickened. The pulmonary and costal pleura may be- come inseparably adherent over an entire lung, or they may be united at various points by firm membranous adhesions. These adhesions and thickenings may, after a time, become calcified. HYDKOPNEUMOTHOKAX. The pleural cavity may contain air. The air enters either through a perforation of the chest-wall or of the lung. The air is usually accomjianied by a purulent exudation in the pleural cavity. In phthisis, in pysemic infarctions, gangrene, hydatid sacs, empyema, emphysema, bronchiectasia, abscesses of the adjoin- ing soft parts, perforation of the oesophagus, and in wounds of the thorax, air may enter tlie pleural cavity. NEW GROWTHS. Fibroma occurs in the form of small, white nodules; of poly- poid tumors, as large as a walnut; and of small nodules, free in the pleural cavity. Lipoma occurs in the form of large masses growing from the connective tissue beneath the costal pleura and pushing this membrane inward. Angioma has been seen in the costal pleura. Cysts^ both serous and dermoid, are sometimes found. Tubercles are found in tlie pleura as small, gray, miliary granulations. They are often found witli tubercular and ca- tarrhal phtliisis. Carcinoma is secondary to that disease in other organs, espe- cially in the mamma. It forms small, Avhitish nodules in the costal and pulmonary pleura. They are either soft or hard. With cancer of the mediastinum the pleura is often involved. I have seen a case in which there was a layer of new growtli, two inches thick, on the outer surface of the costal pleui'a.THE MEDIASTINUM. 93 The pleural cavity remained open, and was filled witli serum containing fibrine and blood. Lexihcemic Tumors occur as soft, white, flat, or rounded masses, composed of cells like those in the lymphatic glands. PARASITES. Echinococci are found in the costal and pulmonary pleura and in the anterior mediastinum. Sometimes they perforate from tlie liver into the pleural cavity. THE MEDIASTINUM. INFLAMMATION. Abscesses are found in the anterior and posterior mediastinum. They are caused by fractures, caries, or necrosis of the sternum and vertebrae, by perforation of the oesophagus, by suppuration of the lymphatic glands, or may be idiopathic. The pus is formed slowly, and may accumulate in large quantities. The heart and lungs may be displaced and the sternum bulged out- ward. They may cause pleurisy or pericarditis, or may per- forate outward, or into the pleural cavity, the oesophagus, the trachea, or a bronchus. NEW GROWTHS. . Lympho-Sarcoma occurs in the form of large lobulated tumors, commencing in the lymphatic glands. The cervical, bronchial, and mediastinal glands are most frequently involved, and form lobulated tumors, which may occupy a large part of the cavity of the thorax. A persistent thymus gland may also be the point of origin. These tumors at first retain the charac- ter of enlarged glands inclosed in a capsule; later, the new growth invades and breaks through the capsule, and infiltrates the neighboring soft parts. Later still, metastatic tumors are formed in the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys. The lymphatic glands in other parts of the body may be enlarged at the same time. '-The growth of these tumors is rapid, and they soon prove fatal.94 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Sarcoma and Carcinoma grow as primary tumors -within the mediastinum. They originate in the periosteiim of the ster- num, in the outer layers of the parietal pericardium, and in the connective tissue of the mediastinum. They grow very rapidly, fill up a large part of the thorax, compress and invade the neighboring soft parts, and form metastatic tumors in other organs. Teratoma myomatodes.—Under this name Virchow describes a very remarkable tumor. It grew I'apidly in a man, aged 22, of good constitution and physical development. The right pleural cavity was nearly filled with a solid growth. There were similar growths, of smaller size, on the left rib, in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. The mediastinal tumor consisted of two portions, a larger and a smaller. The larger portion consisted of solid tissiie, in which were a few cavities. It was very vascular. Part of it was composed of dense fibrous tissue. The greater portion, however, con- sisted of loose connective tissue fibres, of fusiform cells, and of large, many-nucleated cells. Some of the fusiform cells were small, and of the usual appearance; but many were large, and presented striations like those of young voluntary muscle. The smaller jwrtion of the tumor looked like a multilocular cystoid. The cj'sts varied much in size, and contained serum, colloid matter, and blood. Some of the cysts contained a thick, white material, in which were hairs, epidermic scales, ciliated epithelium, and cholesterine. In the fibrous tissue about these cysts were pieces of hyaline cartilage. Is^ear the suriace of the tumor the tissue consisted of a fibro-cellular stroma forming alveoli filled with epithelium. The tumor on the third left rib consisted of connective tissue fibres and cells, muscle cells, cysts, alveoli filled with epithelium, and a small portion of tissue resembling foetal lung.THE YASOULAR SYSTEM. THE PERICARDIUM. TNIALFOKMATIOISrS. The pericardium may be absent, when there is ectopia of the heart. Cases have been observed in which the heart and the lung were situated in the left pleural cavity, with only rudi- ments of the parietal pericardium at the base of the heart. INJURIES. The pericardium may be wounded by penetrating weapons, by gunshot wounds, and by fragments of bone. It may be ruptured by severe contusions of the thorax, and by rapid extravasation of blood into the pericardial sac. Perforations may be produced by empyema, by mediastinal abscesses, by abscesses of the chest-wall and of the liver, by aneurisms of the aorta, and by suppurative inflammation of the pericardium. DKOPSY. In most post-mortems, we find a little serum, from | ounce to 1 ounce, in the pericardial sac. This serum is usually clear and of a light yellow color; if decomposition has commenced, it may be of a reddish color, or it may be slightly turbid from the falling off of the pericardial epithelium. Large accumulations of serum are found as part of general dropsy from heart-disease, kidney-disease, etc. The serum is clear and of a light yellow color. Hydro-pericardium is usually moderate in comparison with the accumulations of serum in the other serous cavities; sometimes, however, there is a very largePOST-itORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 96 amount of serum, which liinders the movements and the nou- rishment of the heart. HiEMOERHAGE. Extravasations of blood in the cavity of the pericardium are produced by wounds and rupture of tlie heart, rupture of the aorta and of aneurisms, and occur with pericarditis. Small extravasations in the substance of the pericardium are found with scurvy, purpura, fevers, etc. PNEUMATOSIS. Air in the pericardium is sometimes found as a post-mortem appearance, accompanied with drying of portions of the peri- cardium. Wounds or paracentesis of the pericardium ; the perfoi'a- tion of ulcers of the stomach, cavities of the lungs, and ulcers of the oesophagus may admit air into the pericardial cavity. Pericarditis, with foul, piirulent exudation, may evolve gases. INTLAMMATION. Pericarditis.—The earliest change in pericarditis is a con- gestion of the pericardium; this, however, we very frequently fail to find at the post-mortem. Small ecchymoses are not uncommon. The inflammation is attended with the produc- tion of serum, fibrine, pus, and blood in variable quantities. In very mild cases, there are only one or two ounces of turbid serum in the pericardium. In severer cases, the serum reaches the amount of several ounces, or even pounds, accumulating first at the base of tlie heart, and afterward surrounding it more uniformly. Instead of turbid serum there may be great numbers of pus globules, so that the pericarditis is suppurative. In rare cases, the pus may become foul and gangrenous. In other cases, there is but little serum or pus; but the peri- cardium is coated with fibrine in a thin layer, or iu large quan- tities, sticking the visceral and parietal i)ericardium loosely together.97 THE PERICAEDIUM. "With the serum, the pus, or the fibrine, there may he an extravasation of blood, sometimes in large amount. Pericarditis may run an acute or a chronic course. It may end in death; in absorption of the serum ; in membranous thickenings of the pericardium; in adhesions between its visceral and parietal portions ; or the pu^ and fibrine together may undergo cheesy degeneration. With large, serous effusions, especially when they are chronic, the heart-wall becomes soft and flabby, and there may be con- sequent dilatation of the ventricles. There may be also granu- lar degeneration of the muscular fibres, especially of those near the pericardium. In some cases of chronic pericarditis we find irregular calcific plates. The calcification takes place in the membranous thick- enings and adhesions of the pericardium, in the parietal peri- cardium, or in the cheesy masses of thickened pus which are found with and in extensive adhesions. NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma is found in the pericardium in the form of small nodules, metastatic tumors from cancerous or epithelial growths of other parts. In cancers of the mediastinum, the greater part of the parietal pericardium may be involved in the new growth. Sarcoma is foimd in the same way in metastatic nodules, and as a continuous infection from mediastinal sarcomata. Fibroma occurs rarely. It may have the polypoid form, and the pedicle may atrophy so as to leave free fibrous bodies in the pericardial cavity. Cysts of the visceral pericardium have been described by Rokitansky. Tiibercles in the miliary form are found in the pericardium, and in inflammatory membranes. 7POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 98 THE HEART. CONGENITxVL JIALFOEMATIONS. The malformations of the heart are usually closely connected with malformations of the aorta and pulmonary artery. They depend on arrest of, or abnormal development; on endocar- ditis, myocarditis, thrombosis, or mechanical causes. I. The common arterial trunk is only partially, or not at all, separated into aorta and pulmonary artery. The divisions be- tween the heart cavities are at the same time defective. (1.) There is one ventricle and no auricle. (2.) There is one ventricle and one amicle. (3.) There is one ventricle and two aui'icles ; the aorta is alone or incompletely separated from the pulmonary artery. II. The trunk of the pulmonary artery, or of the aorta, is stenosed or obliterated, and from the obstruction to the current of blood the development of the septa, between the heart cavities, is prevented. (1.) The aorta, at its origin or in the ascending portion of the arch, is stenosed or closed. The pulmonary artery gives off the descending aorta, and supplies the carotids and subclavians. The foramen oval remains open, or there is no septum be- tween the auricles. The ventricular septum is also usually defective. The right ventricle is hypertrophied. (2.) The piilmonary artery is stenosed or closed. Its branches are supplied by the aorta, through the ductus arteriosus. The ventricular septum is defective, the foramen ovale is ojjen, or tlie auricular septum defective. III. The malformation affects the aorta and pulmonary artery after they are more fully developed. (1.) There is stenosis of the aorta between the left subclavian and ductus arteriosus, or just at the opening of the ductus arte- riosus. The descending aorta is then a continuation of the pulmonary artery. (2.) The aorta gives off all its branches from the arch, but the descending aorta is a continuation of the pulmonary artery, or the carotids may spring from the aorta, the subclavians from the pulmonary artery.THE IIEAKT. 99 (3.) The vessels are transposed, tlie pulmonary artery arises from the left, the aorta from the right ventricle; the pulmonary veins empty into the left, the vente cav£e into the right auricle; or the veins also may be transposed. The septa are defective. TV. The aorta and pulmonary artery are normal, but the cardiac septa are defective. (1.) The foramen ovale remains partly open. This condition may continue through life without giving any trouble. (2.) The ductus arteriosus may remain open for many years ; this, also, causes no disturbance. (3.) There is a small or large opening in the ventricular septum. This may give rise to no symptoms unless disease of the heart or lungs be superadded. y. Either of the auriculo-ventricular orifices may be entirely closed. The foramen ovale remains open, and the ventricular septum is defective. YI. The valves of the different orifices of the heart may be absent or defective. The arteries or the ventricles are usually defective at the same time. The aortic and pulmonary valves may consist of two large or four small leaves, instead of the usual three. Generally speaking, the existence of openings between the- two auricles or the two ventricles, admitting some admixture of venous and arterial blood, produces no change in the circu- lation. If, however, the passage of the current of venous blood into the right heart is in any way interfered with, the conse- quences are very serious. Cyanosis is produced, the skin is of a bluish color, the small veins and capillaries are dilated, exu- dation of serum and hypertrophy of connective tissue takes place, especially in the fingers and toes. Besides the malformations already mentioned, we may find : Entire absence of the heart. Abnormal septa and chordae tendinese in the heart cavities- Abnormal shapes of the heart. Abnormal positions of the heart. (a.) There is a smaller or larger defect in the walls of the thorax, so that the heart projects on the outside of the chest; the pericardium is usually absent.EXAMINATIONS. POST-MORTEM 100 (b.) The diaphragm is absent, and the heart is found in the abdominal cavity. (e.) The heart is placed in some part of the neck or head ; this only occurs in foetuses very much malformed. (d.) The heart is transposed, being on the right side. Very rarely two more or less perfect hearts are found in the same thorax. IIYPEETEOPIIY. All the cavities of the heart may have their walls liyper- trophied, or the thickening may only involve one or more. While the wall of a ventricle is thickened, its cavity may re- tain its normal size, or be dilated or contracted. The existence of the last condition—concentric hypertrophy—is denied by some authors, affirmed by others. Hypertrophy of both ventricles increases both the length and breadth of the heart. Hypertrophy of the left ventricle (alone) increases its length. The apex is then lower and further to the left than usual. Hypertrophy of the right ventricle (alone) increases the breadth of the lieart toward the right side; but sometimes the right edge of the heart retains its normal situa- tion and the apex is displaced to the left. "With large hyper- trophy of both ventricles, the base of the heart may sink so that its long axis approaches a horizontal direction. The exact way in which hypertrophy of the heart-walls takes place, whether by increase in the size or in the number of the muscular fibrillfe, or in both ways, is not definitely deter- mined. Hypertrophy of the heart may depend upon a variety of causes. (1.) Changes in the valves, eitlier insufticiency or stenosis, produce hypertrophy in the cavities to which the valves belong. (2.) Obstruction to the passage of blood through the aortic system of vessels, by aneurisms, dilatation, atheroma, congeni- tal stenosis, the pressure of tumors, disease of the kidneys, (especially atropliy,) leads to hyperti'ophy, first of the left ven- tricle, and secondarily of the right ventricle. (3.) Obstruction to the passage of blood through the pulmo- nary artery, by stenosis, and by diseases of the lungs, produces101 THE HEART. liypertrophy of the right ventricle, and secondarily of the right auricle and left ventricle. (4.) Any canse, whether muscular or nervous, which increases the rapidity and force of the heart's contractions, may produce hypertrophy. (5.) Dilatation of the ventricles from any cause is frequently followed by hypertrophy. (6.) Pericarditis may produce hypertrophy by inducing soft- ening and dilatation of the ventricles, or by leaving adhesions which obstruct the heart's action. Finally, for some cases of hypertrophy no satisfactory cause can be found. DILATATION. Dilatation may be active—combined with hypertrophy ; sim pie—the heart-walls retaining their normal thickness ; or pas- sive—with thinning of the walls. Either one or all of the heart cavities may be dilated. The auricles are most frequently affected ; next, the right ventricle ; least often, the left ventricle. . Active dilatation has already been described under the head of hypertrophy. In simple dilatation, the shape of the heart is changed accord- ing to the cavities afiected. Dilatation of the right ventricle increases the breadth, dilatation of the left ventricle, the length of the heart. The walls of the heart are of normal thickness; the muscular tissue is flabby ; the muscular fibres are normal, or fatty, or waxy. Passive dilatation is produced by : (1.) Changes in the valves. Mitral or aortic stenosis, or in- sufiiciency, may produce dilatation of the auricles and right ventricle. Pulmonary stenosis, or insufficiency, may produce dilatation of the right auricle and right ventricle. Aortic in- sufficiency, with or without stenosis, or mitral insufficiency, may produce dilatation of the left ventricle. Dilatations from these causes are often succeeded and compensated for by hypertrophy of the heart's walls. (2.) Changes in the muscular tissue of the heart-walls.102 POST-MORTEM EXA^IINATIO^TS. Serous infiltration of tlie heart-wall, from pericarditis ; nij-ocar- ditis; fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres; and atrophy of the muscle, from chronic diseases, may all lead to dilatation. (3.) A heart which is already hypertrophied may, from de- generation of the heart-wall, become dilated. (4.) Acute infiltrations of the lungs, and acute pleuritic ex- udations, by rendering a large number of vessels suddenly im- permeable to the blood current, produce a rapid stasis in the pulmonary artery and dilatation of the right heart. ATROPHY. Atrophy of the walls of the heart may be accompanied with no change in the size of its cavities; or with dilatation, (the same as passive dilatation ;) or, more frequently, with diminution in the size of the cavities. The atrophy involves most frequently all the cavities of the heart, but may be confined to one or more of them. The muscular tissue appears normal, or brown from the pre- sence of little granules of pigment in the muscular fibres ; or the muscular fibres may undergo fatty degeneration ; or there may be an abnormal accumulation of fat beneath the pericar- diimi; or there may be a peculiar gelatinous material beneath the pericardium; this consists of fat which has undergone mu- cous degeneration. The causes of atrophy of the heart are: (1.) It is a congenital malformation ; the heart of an adult then looks like that of an infant. (2.) Any chronic and exhausting disease, repeated haimor- rhages, old age, typhus fever, dysentery, etc., may produce atro- (3.) Chronic pericarditis, with large serous effusion, or with thickening of the epicardium, producing constriction of the coronary arteries. (4.) Stenosis, atheroma, calcification, or thrombosis of the coronary arteries, may produce partial or total atroph\\ (5.) Myocarditis, with fatty or fibrous degeneration. (0.) Mitral stenosis may cause atrophy of the left ventricle.103 THK HEART, CHANGES IN POSITION. Changes in tlie position of the heart are congenital or acquir- ed. The congenital malpositions have been already noticed ; the most important clinically is the transposition of the organ to the right side. The acquired malpositions are caused by: (1.) Hypertrophy of the heart; its long axis approaches the horizontal direction. (2.) Changes in the thoracic viscera. Emphysema of both lungs pushes the heart downward. Emphysema, pleurisy, with effusion, or pneumo-tliorax of one side, push the heart to the other side. Pleurisy or chronic pneumonia, producing retrac- tion of one side of the thorax, draws the heart to that side. New growths, aneurisms, and curvatures of the spine displace the heart in various directions. (3.) Changes in the abdomen. Accumulations of fluid and new growths in the abdomen, and tympanites, may push the heart upward. , WOUNDS AND ETJPTTrEES. Woimds of the heart are produced by penetrating instru- ments, by bullets, and by fragments of bone. The right ventri- cle is the more frequently wounded ; next, the left; rarely, the auricles. The wound may penetrate into the cavities of the heart, or only pass partly through its wall, or a bullet, or the broken end of a weapon, may be imbedded in the wall. If the wound penetrates into a cavity, and is gaping, death follows instantly, and the pericardium is found filled with blood. If the wound be small and oblique, the blood may es- cape gradually, and death does not ensue for several days. In rare cases, adhesions are formed with the pericardium, and the wound cicatrizes. "Wounds which do not penetrate may cause death by the in- flammation, which they excite, or may cicatrize. Bullets and foreign bodies may become encapsuled in the heart-wall, and remain so for years. liuptures of the heart-wall occur in various ways.104 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, (1.) Severe contusions of the thorax may produce rupture, usually of one of the auricles. (2.) Spentaneous rupture occurs usually in advanced life. The left ventricle is the cavity most frequently ruptured. There is usually one rupture, sometimes two; five have been seen. The rupture is usually oblique, larger internally than externally; there may even be a small cavity filled with blood in the heart- wall. The heart-wall may be of normal thickness, or thin ; it is soft and friable, the muscular fibres advanced in fatty degene- ration. The rupture usually takes place while the patient is quiet. Death is usually instantaneous, but sometimes does not ensue for several hours. Rupture of the inner layers only of the lieart-wall may give rise to aneurisms of the heart. In rare cases, circumscribed inflammation, abscesses, hydatids, and tumors may produce rupture. (3.) In very rare cases, rupture is produced by stenosis of the aorta and dilatation of the heart cavities. (4.) Eupture of the papillary muscles and tendons is produced by fatty and atlieromatous processes. INFLAMMATION. MYOCARDITIS. Our knowledge of inflammation of the walls of the heart is still imperfect. The distinction between parenchymatous de- generation, and parenchymatous inflammation and their rela- tions to changes in the interstitial connective tissue, are obscure. In chronic pericarditis with eff'usion, we may find in the outer layers of muscle marked granular degeneration of the muscular fibrilljB. This may be looked on as a parenchymatous inflam- mation, due to irritation, or as a simple degeneration from im- paired nutrition. A general and acute inflammation of the entire heart is do- scribed by Rindfleisch. It occurred in a man with a syphilitic history, and caused sudden death. The heart-walls were firm and stiff', the muscular tissue was of a fresh violet red color, iridescent, semi-translucent, of the consistence of caoutchouc.THE HEART. 105 Tlie muscular fibres contained a finely granular substance collected around the nuclei, they were broken into quadrangular fragments. Abscesses of the heart-wall may be due to embolism or to un- known causes. Those due to embolism are multiple, scattered over the surface of both ventricles, and have the ordinary cha- racteristics of pysemic abscesses. Those due to other causes are usually single, situated in the wall of the left ventricle, or in the septum, and may be as large as a Avalnut. The abscess contains pus and broken-down mus- cular fibres. The pus may become thickened, cheesy, and inclosed in a fibrous capsule. More frequently the abscess opens into the pericardium or into the heart-cavity. If it opens into a heart-cavity, the blood enters and becomes mixed with the contents of the abscess, and a very favorable condition is afforded for the production of emboli in difi'erent parts of the body. The blood may finally rupture into the pericardial cavity, and cause death. If the abscess is in the interventricular septum, it may establish an opening between the two ventricles, or it may extend upward and form a diffused abscess in the connective tissue at the base of the heart. Change of the muscular substance of the heart into fibrous tissue is sometimes found. It usually occurs in the left ventricle, and in connection with endocarditis. We find a circumscribed portion of the heart-wall converted into fibrous tissue of some thickness, or into a thin membrane. It seems natural to ascribe such a condition to chronic inflammation a;oing on in the heart- wall. These cicatricial spots may lead to the formation of aneurisms of the heart, or to general dilatation. THE ENDOCAKDIUM. The endocardium resembles the entire coat of a blood-A'essel spread out over the inner surface of the heart. It consists of several layers. On its inner surface is a layer of pavement en- dothelium. The cells are placed on a thick lamella, formed of anastomosing elastic fibres ; beneath this is a layer of loose elas- tic fibres mixed with a little connective tissue and some smooth106 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. nmscular fibres. A layer of connective tissue separates tlie en- docardium from the muscular tissue of the heart. The valves are formed by a duplicature of the endocardium, so that there is on each face of the valve a layer of epithelium, an elastic layer, and in the centre a thin layer of connective tissue. Blood and lymph vessels are found in the endocardium. In intra-uterine life, endocarditis usually attacks the right ventricle; after birth, the left ventricle. The valves are the jiortion of the endocardium which is most frequently diseased. Rheumatism, Bright's Disease, and the severe febrile diseases are considered the usual causes of endocarditis, but there are many cases for which no cause can be found. The most moderate degree of inflammation manifests itself in a simple swelling of the valves. The valves are thickened and feel succulent and elastic. The swelling seems to be due to a simple swelling of the anatomical elements, with some in- crease in number of their connective tissue-cells. Another mild form exhibits itself in a simple opacity and thickening of the endocardium. This is usually seen in the left ventricle, in its upper part on the posterior wall; it may or may not be associated with disease of the valves. In more intense inflammation, the increase of cells is more evi- dent, so that we see little granulations on the valves or other parts of the endocardium. The cells increase in number till they reach the inner surface of the endocardium, and break through in a little fungous mass. On this roughened surface fibrine from the blood in the heart may be deposited so as to form vegetations of considerable size. Sometimes the cell pro- duction may be so great that minute abscesses are formed in and beneath the endocardium. Much more common than all of these clianges is chronic en- docarditis, or atheroma, as it is more often called. The pro- cess consists in a production of small round cells, in the substance of the endocardium, followed by granular, fatty, or calcific de- generation. So that we find in the endocardium patches of an opaque, cheesy substance, made up of granules and debris of cells ; or calcareous plates. Over these patches, the inner layer of the endocardium may be destroyed and tlie })utches may re-THE HEART. 107 main exposed, or tlie cheesy matter may soften and give rise to nleerative destruction of tissue. In this way we find a great variety of lesions produced in the valves, and less frequently in the endocardium of the ventx'icles. Tlie valves are simply thickened by cheesy yellow patches ; or they are stiff and rigid from cheesy or calcareous plates; or they are drawn together so as to obstruct the openings to which they belong; or the atheromatous matter softens, breaks down, and a larger or smaller part of the valve is destroyed. As soon as a roughened surface is produced, fibrine is usually deposited on it in the form of vegetations. The endocardium of the ventricles presents the same lesions: cheesy and calcareous plates and ulcerated surfaces. In the latter case, the muscular tissue may become involved and exca- vations of some little depth produced. In some cases, the pa- pillary muscles or chordae tendine£e are destroyed so as to leave the valves flapping. CHANGES IN THE VALVES. Fenestration of the valves is usually a change productive of no bad consequences. It occurs in the aortic and pulmonary valves. The valves are thinner than usual, and close to their free edges are small slits extending from the centre to the at- tached edges of a leaf. Aneurisms of the valves are produced in two ways. (1.) They are the result of endocarditis. One of the lamellfe of the leaf of a valve is destroyed and the other lamella is converted into a sac filled with blood. These aneurisms are found in the aortic valve, projecting into the ventricle; and in the mitral valve, projecting into the auricle. Not infrequently the wall of the aneurism gives Way, so that there is a rupture en- tirely through the valve. (2.) The entire thickness of a leaf of a valve is converted into a sac filled with blood. This occurs in the aortic, mitral, and tricuspid valves; its cause is unknown. Iloemorrhage in the substance of the valves is sometimes found in very young children. It does not appear to have much clinical importance.108 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Imiifficieney of the valves to close the orifice to which they belong is produced by : (1.) Inflammation, thickening, shrinking, and shortening of the valves. To these may be joined atherona, calcification, and vegetations. (2.) The valves may become adherent to each other or to the heart-wall. (3.) Partial destruction of a valve, of a papillary muscle, or of one of the chordse tendinese by inflammation. (4.) Dilatation of the orifice of a valve without corresponding increase in the size of the valve itself. (5.) A very high degree of fenestration of the valve. (6.) Large vegetations adhering to the valve. Stenosis of the valves is produced by inflammatory changes resulting either in simple rigidity, or in adhesions and contrac- tion of the valve. In the latter case, the stenosis may be so marked that a quill will hardly pass through the orifice. The same lesions frequently produce both stenosis and iusufli- ciency of a valve. These changes occur most frequently in the aortic and mi- tral valves; more rarely, in the pulmonary and tricuspid. Insufficiency and stenosis of the valves produce changes in the heart itself and in the rest of the body. In the heart we find dilatatio7i and hypertrophy in various degrees. Insufficiency of the mitral valve produces dilatation and hy- pertrophy of the left ventricle, dilatation of the left auricle, and not infrequently dilatation and hypertrophy of the right ven- tricle and auricle. Stenosis of the mitral valve usually leaves the left ventricle of normal size, or even atrophied ; the left auricle, right ventri- cle, and right auricle are usually dilated and hypertrophied. The tricuspid valve may be insufficient or stcnosed, usually both at once. A small degree of insufficiency appears to be a physiological condition. Greater degrees are usually secondary to mitral stenosis. If stenosis exists, it is moderate in degree, and its eflfect is the same as insufficiency—dilatation of the right auricle and of the veins leading into it.THE HEART, 109 The aortic valve may be insufficient, or stenosed, or both. Insufficiency produces dihatation or liypertrophy of the left ventricle, secondarily of the left auricle, right ventricle and auricle. Stenosis, with insufficiency, produces the same lesions in a higher degree. Stenosis alone produces dilatation of the left ventricle without hypertrophy, giving the heart a globular form. The pulmonary valve is rarely insufficient or stenosed. It causes dilatation or hypertrophy of the right ventricle and auricle. The changes produced by valvular lesions in other parts of the body are due to an increase of venous, or a diminution of arterial pressure, both resulting in the same way, namely, in a constant venous congestion of the different viscera, and serous effusions into the different serous cavities. Stenosis of the mi- tral valve, or of the pulmonary artery, produces these changes in the highest degree. Pigment induration of tlie lungs, congestion and subsequent changes in the liver, catarrhal inflammation of the stomach and intestines, induration of the kidneys, and cyanosis of the skin may all be found. ANEURISM OF THE HEART. Sacs filled with blood, situated in the walls of the heart, and commimicating with its cavities, are formed in several different ways. (1.) In consequence of inflammatory processes in the endo- cardium and muscular tissue, a small or large portion of the wall is converted into fibrous tissue. The portion thus chang- ed no longer resists the pressure of the blood from within, and is driven outward. Such a pouch may be a circumscribed sac, communicating with the heart cavity by a small opening, or may look like a dilatation of part of the ventricle. The wall of such an aneurism becomes thinner as the sac increases in size. It is composed of the endocardium, new fibrous tissue, visceral pericardium, and sometimes the adherent parietal pericardium. The walls may calcify ; or rarely they become so thin as to rup-110 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. ture externally or into tlie right ventricle. Tlie sacs may con- tain fluid blood, or be filled iip Avitli fibrine. Siicli aneurisms are usually situated in the wall of the left ventricle ; rarely in that of the left auricle. If they are in the septum, they may project into the right ventricle. They are usually single ; sometimes two or three are found in the same heart. (2.) Fatty degeneration of the heart-wall may reach such] a point that the wall yields and is pouched out into an aneuris- mal sac. (3.) Endocarditis and myocarditis, or fatty degeneration, may so soften a portion of the heart-wall that the endocardium and part of the muscular tissue is ruptured, and a ragged cavity is iornied. This form of aneurism usually does not attain a large size, but soon ruptures externally, and causes the death of the patient. THROMBOSIS OF THE HEART. it is very common to find after death, in the heart-cavities, yellow, succulent, semi-translucent masses. They are most common ana of firmest texture in persons who die of acute inflammatory diseases. They may adhere quite flrmly to the walls of the heart, and may extend in long, branching cords into the vessels. They are formed in the last hours of life, and just after death. They have no clinical or pathological im- jjortance. Coagulations of the fibrine of the blood in the heart do, how- ever, occur during life, and may exist for years. If the fibrine adheres to the valves in small masses, these are called vegeta- tions ; if it coagulates in the heart-cavities in larger bodies, they are called thrombi, or heart polypi. Such thrombi are found in all tlie heart-cavities. They form flattened masses firmly adherent to the endocardium ; or round- ed bodies in the spaces between the trabeculre; or have a poly- poid shape and are attached by a narrow pedicle, or are free in the cavity. They are us\ially found in connection with some valvularTHE HEART. Ill lesion, wliicli prevents tlie free circulation of blood tlirongh the lieart. They are firm, dry, and of a whitish color, they may soften and break down at their centres, so as to look like cysts filled with pus, or they may calcify. They are usually entirely un- organized, consisting simply of fibrine. I have observed one case in which the thrombi were distinct- ly' organized. The patient was a man found dead in the street, concerning whom no history was obtained. There were two thrombi attached to the endocardimn of the right auricle at a point half an inch from the tricuspid valve, and close to each other. One of them was spherical, 2|- inches in diameter, attached to the auricle by a small, round pedicle. The other was ovoid, 3^ inches long, was attached by a small pedicle, projected through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle, was calcified, and its free end ragged and broken. When they were fresh, both polypi were formed of a yellow, semi-translucent, elastic tissue, parts of which were calcified. Small vessels filled with blood could be seen near the surface. A thin membrane continuous with the endocardium could be dissected up from their surfaces. The body of the polyjii, where they were not calcified, consisted of a basement sub- stance partly fibrosis, partly homogeneous, and of round, oval, fusiform, and stellate cells. Arteries and capillaries, some con- taining blood, were found in considerable numbers. I have also seen another organized thrombus in the right auricle. The specimens were shown to me by Dr. Mann. The patient was a middle aged-man, one of whose legs was amputated on account of some tumor. After a time, the tumor recurred in the stump. At the autopsy there were found sec- ondary nodules in the lungs, and a large thrombus in the right auricle and extending into the inferior vena cava. The growth in the stump, in the lungs, and in the auricle, all had the same structure. They were composed of a fibrous stroma inclosing rounded cavities. These cavities were filled with large nucleat- ed cells resembling pavement epithelium. The cells were not in contact with each other, but were separated by a fine fibrous reticulum.112 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. DEGENERATIONS. Fatty Degeneration affects the heart in two waj-s, as an in- crease of the siibpericardial fat, and as a change in the mnscn- lar fibres. The increase of the siibpericardial fat may be attended with atrophy of the mnscular tissue, or it may not. It accompanies an increase of adipose tissue tliroughout other regions of the body. Fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres produces fine granules in them, which may be so numerous as to apparently fill the sarcolemma. These granules appear to be at first of an albuminous, later of a fatty nature. The afiected muscle ap- pears yellow, soft, and friable. The heai-t-wall may retain its normal thickness, or it may be much atrophied. The greater part of the heart may undergo this change, or only small cir- cumscribed portions, or only the superficial layers. The de- generation may lead to rupture of the heart, or to death from the inability of the heart to fulfil its functions. Phosphorus poisoning, typhus and severe fevers, pericarditis and exhausting diseases are found as causes for this condition, but it may occur in apparently healthy individuals. Waxy or Amyloid Degeneration is found in connection witli the same change in the other viscera, and is due to the same causes. The muscular fibres are the seat of the degeneration. Mucous Degeneration of the siibpericardial fat is found in persons much emaciated by chronic disease. The fat is chang- ed into a translucent, gelatinous substance, composed of a homogeneous basement substance, eoagulable by alcohol and acids, and of connective tissue-cells and compound granular corpuscles. NEW GROWTHS. Fibroma is sometimes seen in the form of small nodules growing in the heart-wall, or projecting under the endocardium or pericardium. Lljfoma is very rare in the form of a circumscribed tumor,113 THE HEART. althougli a general increase of the subpericardial fat is com- mon. Myoma striocellulare.—Tumors formed of voluntary muscle liave been seen in three cases as a congenital lesion. The tu- mors were single or multiple, some as large as a cherry, of the consistence and appearance of the surrounding heart-wall, but looking like circumscribed nodules. In one case, the tumor was cavernous. In one case, there were also gummy tumors in the heart-wall. A single case has been observed, in an adult, in which the en- tire wall of the left ventricle was changed into a spongy mass, which may belong to the same category. Syphilitic Gummata may occur at any point of the ventricu- lar wall. They are usually multiple, may reach the size of a pigeon's egg, are of a whitish or yellow color, of fibrous or cheesy consistence ; sometimes softer. They are composed of small round cells developed between the muscular fibres. The tumors may be almost entirely composed of cells, or may be partly cheesy, or mixed with fibrous tissue. Tubercle are found in the heart-wall in the form of miliary granulations. They have also been observed in the valves. Cysts containing serum, and others containing a grumous fluid, have been seen in rare cases. Sarcoma sometimes occurs as a metastatic growth. Carcinoma of the heart as a primary tumor is "very rare. ISTodules secondary to growths in the mediastinum or other re- gions are more common. Epithelial cancer in this organ is de- scribed by Paget and Yirchow. Carcinomatous thrombi in the heart cavities sometimes occur as secondary formations from the same growth in other regions. PAEASITES. Echinococci are sometimes found in the walls of the ventri- cles in their usual form of hydatid cysts. Cysticercus sometimes occurs in connection with cysticerci in the voluntary muscles. 8114 POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. THE ARTERIES. MALFORMATIONS. The most irajiortant anomalies of the aorta and ^-(nlnionaiy artery have already been mentioned in connection witli those of the heart. Congenital stenosis of the aorta will be spoken of xmder the head of stenosis. Anomalies in the distribution and origin of the arteries are principally of interest to anato- mists. DILATATION. ANELTIISMS. (1.) Cirsoid Aneurism consists in the dilatation and length- ening of large or small arteries. The walls of the artery are thinned, the vessel is tortuous, and in places sacculated. These changes are most frequent in small arteries, especially the tem- poral and occipital; they involve the trunk of the vessel, and its branches, or may extend to the capillaries and small veins. They form larger or smaller tumors beneath the skin. IJarely they are found in tlie larger arteries, and even in the aorta. (2.) TJie ordinary Aneurism is a dilatation of the coats of the artery over a larger or smaller part of its course. Such dilata- tions are usually due to chronic endarteriitis. According to their shape we may distinguish two varieties : the diffuse and the circumscribed. (1.) The diffuse, cylindrical, or fusiform aneurism consists in a uniform dilatation of all the coats of an artery, so that it as- sumes the shape of a fusiform or cylindrical swelling. In the walls of the dilated portion of the vessel there are often smaller circumscribed dilatations. The wall of the aneurism is athero- matous or calcified; the middle coat may be atrophied. The arch of the aorta is the most common seat of this form of an- eurism ; but the entire length of the aorta, or parts of any other arteries, may be dilated in the same way. (2.) The circumscribed or sacculated aneurism consists cither in a dilatation of the entire circumference of an artery over a short portion of its length, or in a dilatation of only a small portion of one side of the wall, so that the aneurism looks likeTHE ARTERIES, 115 a swelling attached to one side of the artery. The aneurism commences as a dilatation of all the coats of the vessel; but as soon as it attains any size, the middle coat atrophies, so that the wall is composed of the inner and outer coats ; or the inner coat is destroyed by endarteriitis, so that the outer coat alone forms the wall of the aneurism. As the aneurism increases in size, it l^resses upon and causes the destruction of the neighboring tis- sues and viscera, and portions of these tissues and viscera be- come incorporated with or take the place of the wall of the aneurism. The cavity of the aneurism is filled with fluid or clotted blood, or with layers of fibrine which adhere closely to its wall. The communication between the aneurism and the artery may be small or large. If arterial branches are given off from the aneurism, they may remain open, or become plugged with fibrine ; or their walls are thickened and their cavities nar- rowed by endarteriitis. Death is produced by the pressure and interference of the aneurism with the adjoining viscera, or by rupture. The rupture may allow enough blood to escape to destroy life, or the blood may be held in by the soft parts, and a second false aneurism formed about the original one. ANEURISMS OF THE DIFFERENT ARTERIES. The Aorta may be dilated over its entire length ; or there may be diffuse or circumscribed dilatations at any portion of its course ; or there may be several aneurisms situtated at dif- ferent points. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta may be uni- formly dilated in a fusiform shape; or there may be circum- scribed dilatations on its anterior wall; or, more rarely, on its posterior wall. The sacculated aneurisms may be of all' sizes,, and may rupture within the pericardium ; or they may form a cavity in the upper part of the ventricular septum, and commu- nicate by openings into the pulmonary artery and left \nentricle ; or they may dilate downward between the visceral and parietal pericardium, in fi'ont of the heart, pushing that organ back- ward. They may perforate into the right or left auricle or right ventricle, the superior vena cava, or the pulm.onary arte-116 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. ry ; or tliey may reacli a large size, press on and erode the right side of the sternum and adjoining ribs, project under tlie skin, and even rupture externally. The transverse portion of the arch may be dilated in a fusi- form shape ; or there may be sacculated aneurisms at any point in its wall. The sacculated aneurisms usually reach a consider- able size. They press on the sternum and ribs in front, or on the oesophagus, trachea, and bronchi behind. The large arte- ries given off from the arch may be occluded. They cause death by pressure on the air-passages, the oesophagus, and the vena cava; or may rupture externally, or into the oesophagus, tra- chea, bronchi, or pleuritic cavities. On the thoracic aorta vre find both diffused and circumscrib- ed dilatations. They may reach a large size ; compress the as- cending vena cava, the heart, oesophagus, bronchi, and lungs ; may erode the ribs, destroy the vertebrte, and open into the spinal canal. They may rupture externally, or into the bron- chi, oesophagus, or pleural cavities. On the abdominal aorta we usually find sacculated aneurisms. If they are situated high up, they may project into the pleural cavities ; if lower down, into the abdomen. They compress and displace the viscera, vessels, and nerves, and erode the vertebrre. They may rupture behind the peritoneum, in the peritoneal cavity, the pleural cavities, the inferior vena cava, the lungs, the colon, the pelves of the kidneys, the posterior mediasti- num. The Coronary Arteries may be dilated througliout, or may be the seat of small sacculated aneurisms. These may rupture into the pericardium, or may cause rupture of the heart-wall. TliG Pulmonary Arteries are rarely the seat of aneurisms. Diffuse and circumscribed dilatations, however, somethnes oc- cur on the main trunk and on the two principal branches of the artery. They usually do not reach a large size, but cause death by rupture. General dilatation of all the branches of the piilmonary artery is more connnon. It is found in connection with stenosis of the mitral valves, and with compression or in- duration of tlie lung tissue.THE ABTERIES. 117 Of tlie otlier arteries of the body there is hardly any one which may not become the seat of an aneurism. STENOSIS, Stenosis and obliteration of the aorta, at the point of entrance of the ductus arteriosus, has been described in a considerable number of cases. The situation of the stenosis is either exactly at the entrance of the ductus arteriosus, or close on either side of this point. The degree of stenosis varies. The aorta may be entirely clos- ed and converted into a solid cord for a length of half an inch ; or there may be a circular constriction through which there is a larger or smaller opening. The constriction is uniformly cir- cular ; or there is a septum springing from the concave side of the vessel at the opening of the ductus arteriosus ; or there is a cicatricial-like contraction of the aorta. The walls of the aorta at this point may be thickened and sclerosed. The ductus arte- riosus may be closed or open. Above the constriction the aorta is usually dilated; below it, it is normal, dilated, or stenosed. Stenosis of the aorta produces hypertrophy of the left ventri- cle, and, later, of the right ventricle, with venous congestion throughout the body; or there may be a collateral circulation developed between the arteries given off above and below the constriction; or there may be rupture of the aorta, the right ventricle or auricle. This condition is found at all ages, but is produced during foetal life, or in the first year of extra-uterine life. It is proba- ble that it may be caused after birth by an abnormal closure of the ductus arteriosus. This vessel normally becomes closed with- out the formation of a thrombus. If a thrombus is formed, it may extend into the aorta and obstruct it; or the ductus arte- riosus is filled with a thrombus, but increases for a time in size; ■afterward, as the thrombus is absorbed, the vessel contracts and draws the walls of the aorta together. Stenosis of the aorta and of some of the other arteries has been observed in a few rare cases, without any known cause. Endai'teriitis, with the production of atheromatous and cal- careous patches, may obstruct or entirely obliterate the smaller118 POST-MOKTEir EXAMlIv'ATIONS. arteries. This is especially seen in tlie arteries of the leg, foot, and brain, and in the coronary arteries. Narrowing of the aorta, and of all its branches, with thin- ning of the arterial coats, is found as a congenital condition. It usually occurs in females in connection with want of develop- ment of the entire body. Stenosis from thrombosis or embolism is treated of elsewhere. KUPTTJRE AND WOUNDS. Ruptures of arteries are found under the following conditions: (1.) Fatty degeneration or endarteriitis, with atheromatous changes, may so soften and destroy the inner and middle coats of an artery as to admit of its rupture. The aorta, just above the valves, is the most frequent seat of this lesion. The rup- ture may run in any direction ; its edges are irregular and jag- ged. The blood may burst through all the coats of the aorta at the same point; or, more frequentl}^, tlie external coat re- mains, and the blood is infiltrated in the middle coat, and be- tween it and the external coat. In this way, a dissecting aneu- rism is formed, which may extend along the aorta for a conside- rable distance. After a short time, the external coat gives way at some point, and the blood escapes. In rare cases, life is pro- longed for some time, the rupture being closed by a new mem- brane. We also find ruptures from fatty degeneration and atheroma in the arteries of the brain and of tlie lungs; in the coronary arteries, the coeliaa axis, and mesenteric arteries, and in the ar- teries of the upper and lower extremities. (2.) In rare cases, stenosis of a portion of the aorta may cause rupture at some point between the seat of stenosis and the heart. (3.) Contusions, wrenchings, and severe falls may rupture the wall of an artery either partially or completely, producing trau- matic or dissecting aneurisms, or completely severing the vessel. (i.) Penetrating wounds may wound or entirely sever an ar- tery. If the artery be of large size, death from lia'morrliage is the usual result. A smaller artery may become closed, or bo the seat of a false aneurism.119 THE ARTERIES. In tlie lieajling of a wounded artery, two conditions coope- rate. Tlie vessel retracts and contracts, and a thrombus is formed witliin it. The contraction may be alone sufficient to close the vessel; its coats thicken, and the inner surfaces finally are fused together; or the blood coagulates, and forms a throm- bus in the vessel near the wound. This thrombus later be- comes organized, and the vessel is converted into a fibrous cord. Spurious aneurisms are found most frequently connected with vessels of the extremities. When an artery is wounded, the blood escapes into the surrounding soft parts, and a cavity is formed filled with blood and broken-down tissue. This con- dition may terminate in several ways. (a.) The wound in the artery may heal, and the efi^'used blood be absorbed. (b.) The efifused blood and broken tissues may become gan- grenous and the surrounding soft parts be inflamed. (c.) A sort of sac-wall may be formed by the soft parts, while the wound of the artery remains open, so that we have an aneurismal sac through which the blood is constantly pour- ing. (5.) If an artery be wounded, and at the same time the vein which accompanies it, we have as the result the conditions call- ed Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism. In aneurismal varix, the artery and vein become adherent at the seat of inju- ry, so that the arterial blood passes directly into the vein. There is a smooth, rounded opening between the two vessels, the vein is dilated into a sac, and the veins emptying into it are dilated and tortuous. In varicose aneurism, the artery and vein do not communi- cate directly, but a false aneurismal sac is formed between the vessels, into which the blood is poured before passing into the vein. Varicose aneurism may also be produced by the spontaneous rupture of an aneurism into a vein. The aneurism presses against the vein, becomes adherent, and finally ruptures into it. This condition has been observed between the aorta and piil- monary artery; the aorta and inferior and superior vena cava ; the popliteal artery and vein ; the femoral artery and vein; the120 POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIONS, splenic artery and vena azygos; the internal carotid and sinus cavernosus. Even in the cases of perforation by aortic anen- risms, life is usually prolonged for some time. (6.) Destructive inflammation of the sim-ounding tissues may invade and destroy a portion of the wall of an artery. Tlius ul- ceration of the trachea, bronchi, bronchial glands and oesopha-. gus, may perforate the aorta ; gangrene of the lungs, the pul- monary arteries ; ulcer of the stomach, the gastric arteries, etc. INFLAMMATION. The walls of arteries are composed of three layers—the inner, middle, and outer coats. The inner coat, or tunica intima, con- sists of three laj-ei's: an inner layer of flat, thin, fusiform, or polygonal endothelium ; a middle layer consisting of a finely granular basement substance traversed by fibres, and containing numerous fusiform and stellate cells ; an outer layer composed in the smaller arteries of an elastic network ; ,in the larger ar- teries, of one or more layers of an elastic, homogeneous fenes- trated membrane. The middle coat, or tunica media, is composed of involuntary muscular fibres, mostly running aroimd the vessel, but some in its long axis ; and of a variable amount of fibrous tissue, elastic tissue, and fenestrated membranes. The outer coat, or tunica adventitia, consists of fibrous tis- sue and a network of elastic fibres. The vasa vasorum or nutrient vessels of the arterial wall are distributed principally in the external coat, scantily in the middle coat. Inflammation of an artery attacks principally the outer coat —Periarteriitis—or the inner coat—Endartcriitis. Periarteriltis is not very common. It occurs in tlie larger arteries and is usually a secondary lesion. It is caused by in- juries, by inflammation of the surrounding tissues, and by throm- bosis or embolism. The outer and middle coats of the inflamed artery are congested and infiltrated, and thickened with a soft, grayish, structureless material. The cavity of tlie vessel is at first narrowed, afterward enlarged. At a later period, we find121 THE AETERIES. varions changes. The outer layers of tlie arterial Avail may be- come necrotic, the inner coat may also die and be cast off in small fragments. In other cases, pus is produced either as a diffuse infiltration of the outer coats, or in the form of small circmnscribed abscesses. The inner coat degenerates into little fragments, or is ruptured. In other cases, the inflammation has a more chronic character, and leads to fibrous thickening of th^ coats of the vessel, and frequently to its obliteration. In all the varieties, the presence of a thrombus in the artery, either as cause or efl'ect of the inflammation, complicates the process. The thrombus may shrivel and be absorbed, or become organiz- ed, or be broken down and gangrenous, and form infarctions in other parts of the body. JEndarteriitis is a chronic inflammation of the inner coat of arteries, resulting in the production of atheromatous and calci- fied plates. It rarely occurs before middle life, while in old age it is a very frequent senile change. The arch of the aorta is the most frequent seat of the lesion, but it may occur in any artery. The disease begins in the form of small, flattened elevations on the inner surface of the artery. These elevations are formed by a hyperplasia of the outer layers of the inner coat. We find a considerable number of round, fusiform, and stellate cells with a basement substance, wdiich is hard and fibrous or soft and mucous. When the lesion has reached this stage, it goes on to fatty or calcific degeneration. Fatty degeneration attacks both the neAV cells and basement substance, converting them into a dense, yellow, cheesy mass ; or into a soft, semi-fluid, yelloAV, jDuriform substance. Instead of cells and basement substance, we now find fatty and broken cells, granules, and plates of cholesterine. This condition is called atheroma. The softening process ad- vances toward the inner surface of the tunica intima, covering the atheromatous patch, until a small perforation is formed and we find a small cavity filled with a thick, yellow fluid, com- municating with the cavity of the vessel by a narroAV sinus. As more of the intima is destroyed, the opening becomes larger, and we find a flat ulcer, often of considerable size. On thePOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 122 roughened surface thus produced the fibrine of the blood is often deposited. The lesion may lead to the rupture of the vessel, or to the formation of ordinary, or of dissecting aneurisms. Calciiic degeneration takes place by the deposition of the salts of lime in the plate formed by the hyperplasia of the intima. We find thin plates, looking like bone, still covered by the intima, or bare. The jilates may be few and small, or large and numerous. The process may be accompanied by a calcification of the muscular cells of the middle coat. All the stages of simple hyperplasia, fatty, and calcific degeneration are often met with in the same vessel. Simple fatty degeneration of the intima may occur in the same artery in which the lesions of chronic endarteriitis are found. Under the name of Canalization Kokitansky describes a rare change in the inner coat. The intima is thickened and pierced with numerous small canals, into which the blood passes. In this way, the arterial wall is converted into a spongy, cavern- ous tissue resembling the corpus cavernosum. DEGENERATION, Sinvple Fatty Degeneration affects only small, circumscribed portions of the inner coat. There is a fatty degeneration of the cells of the intima, with absorption of the basement sub- stance. Tlie process begins in the inner layers of the inti- ma, and gradually works outward, forming small excavations. It may lead to rupture of the vessel. Calcification of the muscular cells of the middle coat occurs in connection with atheroma, with caries of the bones, and as an idiopathic affection. It is usually found in old people, and involves arteries of medium size. It may lead to gangrene of the parts supplied by the affected vessels. Amyloid Degeneration of the arteries is of common occur- rence. The inner coat and the muscular layer are infiltrated with a translucent material looking like wax. In extreme cases, the outer coat is infiltrated in the same way. The walls of the vessel appear thickened, stiff, and of a peculiar waxy color, they are colored mahogany red by the addition of a weak solution of Iodine. Tlie lumen of the affected vessel is diminished in size.123 THE VEENS. THE VEINS. DILATATION. Dilatation of the Veins, or Plilebectasia, presents itself under a variety of forms. (1.) Simple Dilatation. The vein is uniformly dilated in a cylindrical or fusiform shape; its length is not increased; its Avails are of normal thickness, or thinned; the valves increase in size, or are insufficient, or atrophy, or are torn. (2.) Cirsoid Dilatation. The vein is imiformly cylindrically dilated, but is also increased in length, so that it assumes a very tortuous course. The walls are normal, thickened or thinned. (3.) Varicose Dilatation. A circumscribed portion of the wall of the vein is dilated so as to form a globular sac. The sac communicates with the vein through a large or small open- ing. The wall of the sac is formed of the coats of the vein, which preserve their normal thickness, are thickened or thinned ; the middle coat may disappear entirely. There may be only one such dilatation, or there may be a number on the same vein, or a number of veins may be affected at the same time. The vein may be otherwise normal, or, more frequently, is dilated in the cirsoid form. (1.) Anastomosing Dilatation. A number of contiguous and anastomosing veins are dilated, both in the cirsoid and varicose forms. The vein then looks like a series of cavities separated by thin partitions. The dilatations of the same vein become adherent to each other and to those of the adjoining veins; portions of the wall of the dilated parts may disappear, and we find a number of cavities containing venous blood, and sepa- rated from each other by thin partitions. The course of the vein can no longer be followed out. Spontaneous cure of dilatations of the veins is not common, and usually occurs only in the lesser degrees of tlie lesion. Most phlebecfasifB increase steadily in size and extent. Very frequently thrombi form in the dilated veins, and either par- tially or completely fill them. The wall of tlie dilated sac may124 POST-MORTEJI EXAMINATIONS. become so thin that it finally ruptures, and the blood is dis- charged externall}'. Sometimes inflammation is set up in the tissues surrounding the vein, and we find both the surrounding tissues and the wall of the vein the seat of purulent infiltration or fibrous thickening. The parts of the body from which the dilated veins draw their blood exhibit the results of chronic venous congestion, oidenia, hyperemia, and hypertrophy. There is hardly one of all the veins of the body which may not be dilated. The veins of the leg and thigh ; those of the pelvis and pelvic viscera ; those of the spermatic cord, scrotum, and labia ; those of the abdominal wall; those of the neck and arm are the ones most frequently found in this condition. The causes of dilatation are some mechanical obstruction to the passage of the blood through the veins toward the heart. WOUNDS. KUPTUEE. Wo^m(Is of the veins xisually heal by a simple contraction, and an adhesive inflammation of their walls ; sometimes by the formation of a thrombus. Riapture of the veins is produced by severe contusions and crushings of the body, and by violent falls. Perforation of a vein is produced by suppuration of the soft parts and invasion of the walls of the vein ; by suppurative in- flammation beginning in the wall of the vein ; by the pressure of an aneurism or of a new growth ; by thinning of the venous wall in phlebectasiffi. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of a A'cin may aftect principally the outer coat—periphlebitis—or the inner coat—cudophlebitis. Periphlebitis is of not infrequent occurrence. It is caused l)y the presence of a thrombus, by injuries, and by inflamma- tion of the surrounding tissues. It may be of a suppurative or of an indurative character. In suppurative periphlebitis, the outer layers of the venous Avail arc congested, swollen, infil- trated with serum and pus-cells. The inner coat degenerates, and portions become necrotic, and may be cast oft". In this way, the vein may be perforated either from the inside or the out-125 THE VEINS. side. A thrombus in the vein is the constant accompaniment of periphlebitis. It usually is the cause of the inflammation, but may be its result. The changes which take place in the throm- bus, and the infarctions produced by its fragments in different parts of the body, are the most important results of phlebitis. Periphlebitis may terminate in absorption of the thrombus, with the return of the vein to its normal condition; in oblite- ration of the vein; or in the death of the patient from infarc- tions. Chronic Periphlebitis produces thickening of all the coats of the vein, but principally of the outer coat. The suri-ounding soft parts are also thickened, so that the vein can hardly be separated from them. The lumen of the vein remains open, or is filled with a thrombus. Endophlebitis is an inflammation of the inner coat of the ^ vein, of the same character as chronic endarteriitis. Circum- scribed patches of thickening of the inner coat are produced, which afterward undergo fatty and calcareous degeneration. Waldeyer has lately drawn attention to the fact that the division of the walls of the veins into three coats, as in the ar- teries, is an artificial one. The venous Avail is rather a layer of connective tissue, covered on its inner surface with endothelium, and reinforced in places by muscular fibres and elastic tissue. If the outer part of the venous wall .is inflamed, the morbid process is apt to extend to its inner surface. We then find on the internal sm-face of the vein very fine velvet-like granula- tions, which are formed by an increase of the endothelial cells. These granulations may increase in size until the wall of the vein is covered with a soft mass, which can hardly be distin- guished from a thrombus. The mass is, however, a soft, organ- ized, vascular granulation tissue, continuous with a similar cell growth through the entire thickness of the wall of the vein. The form of phlebitis is attended and followed by the forma- tion of a thrombus. NEW GROWTHS. Myoma has been observed in two cases : one on the saphe- nous vein, and one on the ulnar vein. The tumors were of small size, and formed by a circumscribed hypertrophy of the muscu-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 126 lar coat of the vein. Tlie corresponding portion of the Inmen of the vein was dilated. The growth appeared like a globular dilatation of the vein, with great hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Myo Sarcoma has been observed in one case. The tumor was as large as a man's fist, situated in the cavity of the dilated vena cava, extending from the liver to below the renal veins. The growth had invaded the adjoining portion of liver, and there were secondary growths in the lymphatic glands. The tumor consisted of connective tissue, smooth muscle, fusifoi'm cells, and myeloplaxes. Carcinoma of the surroimding parts may perforate the wall of a vein, and grow in its cavity, so as to form a thrombotic mass of considerable size. Cases have been reported in which the new growth was confined to the cavity of the liver veins, and not found in any other part of the body. PAEASITES. EcMnococGus is sometimes found in the veins, either develop- ed there, or having perforated from the adjoining tissues. Distoma hepaticxim is foxmd in the veins of the liver. Distoma hwmatolium has been found in the portal vein and its branches, principally in Egyptians. THE ALIMENTAKY CANAL. THE MOUTH. MALFORMATIONS. Malformations of the lips and cheeks are usually associated with defective formation of the bones of the mouth. The entire process is genei'ally due to an arrest of development. (1.) The lower jaw is absent; the upper jaw and hard palate small and imperfectly formed ; the temporal bones nearly touch in the median line. The lower half of tl+e face is therefore wanting ; the mouth is absent, or small and closed posteriorly ;127 THE MOUTH. tlie tongue is absent. Such a malformation is rare; tlie foetus is not viable. (2.) The face remains in its early foetal condition of a large cleft; the mouth and nose form one cavity; the orbits may be united in the same cavity. The fcetus is not viable. (3.) There is a cleft in the upper lip, upper jaw, and hard palate. The cleft corresponds to the point of junction of the processes of the siiperior maxilla with the intermaxillary bone. There may be one cleft or two, one on either side of the inter- maxillary bone. The cleft involves the lip alone ; or the lip and superior maxilla; or the lip, maxilla, and palate. There may be a single or a double cleft in the palate; and the cleft may involve either the hard or soft j)alate, or both. If there are two clefts of the lip and maxilla, the portion of lip and bone between them may be small, or entirely absent, so as to leave a lai'ge open space. The soft palate may be entirely absent. This is a common malformation, and does not endanger life. (4.) Rarely we find a cleft involving the middle of the lower lip, and sometimes extending into the inferior maxilla. (5.) Either the inferior, the superior, or both maxillary bones may be abnormally smalh (6.) The edges of the lips may be partly or completely joined together. The opening of the mouth may be only a round hole. (7.) The lips may be absent, or imperfectly developed. (8.) The corners of the mouth may be prolonged by clefts in tlie cheeks nearly to the ears. IIYPEETKOPnr. The skin of the cheeks and lips may be hypertrophied in connection with elephantiasis of the face. There may be a thickening of the lips alone, so that they ap- pear double. This thickening may be due to an increase of all the anatomical elements of the lips; or there may be an in- crease and dilatation of the lymphatic vessels, giving to the growth a soft, oedematous character. I128 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. INFLAMMATION. 1. Catarrhal Stomatitis is seldom an object of post-mortem importance, except when caused by irritating poisons. It is fonnd most frequently in children, but also in adults. It is pro- duced by a great variety of local and constitutional causes. Of the conditions which are seen during life, the h}^erfe- mia, increased secretion, white coating and swelling of the mu- cous membrane, but little remains after death. If irritating poisons have passed through the mouth, the mu- cous membrane, especially near the pharynx, will be found in- tensely red, or with black or white patches surrounded by in- tense congestion. 2. Croupous Stomatitis is caused by local irritants; by a continuation of the same disease from the larynx and pharynx; as a result of syphilis and mercurial treatment; with the ex- anthematous fevers; in cachetic subjects in the form of aphthte ; as epidemic diphtheria. The mildest degree of this form is seen in the aphthous sore mouth of children and cachec- tic persons. N^umerous little white patches of fibrinous exuda- tion make their appearance on the lips and gums. The exuda- tion is cast oif with the epithelium which adheres to it, leaving a superficial \ilcer, and this ulcer may be again covered with fi-esh exudation. The severest degrees are found in endemic diphtheria. Fi- brinous exudation is found both on the surface and in tlie sub- stance of the mucous membrane. In consequence of this, large patches of the nmcous membrane become gangrenous, and are cast off. The gangrene may extend also to the subjacent soft parts, and form deep ulcers. If tlie patient recovers, these ul- cers cicatrize, and may, by their contraction, jn-oduce great de- formities. 3. Phlegomonous Stomatitis is caused by injuries, by diseases of the teeth and bones, and may be idiopathic. The inflamma- tion attacks the deep layers of the mucous membrane, and forms abscesses there. Sometimes there is so mucli swelling of the soft parts about the fauces, tliat there is imminent danger of suffocation.129 THE MOUTH. ULCEKATION. Simple follicular ulcers of the mucous membrane of the mouth are common and trivial. Syphilitic ulcers may be merely superficial, or they may be produced by the softening of gummy tumors in the deep layers of the mucous membrane, and attain a large size. Sometimes chancres are found in this situa- tion. Scorbutic nlcers may be preceded by croupous inflammation, or by simple gangrene of small portions of the mucous mem- brane. They may be extensive and of a serious character, GANGRENE, Gangrene of the lips and cheeks, or JS'oma, is most frequent in cachectic children, and as a consequence of the abuse of mer- cury. Mucli more rarely it occurs in-' adults after typhus and other exhausting diseases. The disease begins in mu- cous membrane of the cheeks, near one of the corners of the mouth. Tlie mucous membrane becomes infiltrated with pus, discolored, black, and gangrenous. The same rapid gangrenous process extends through the entire thickness of the cheek, and produces perforation. At the same time the gangrene spreads in all directions, involves the neighboring soft parts, the bones, and even the neck. Besides this form of gangrene, other forms are produced by erysipelas, bm'ns, bites of insects, and glanders, NEW GKOWTHS. Adenoma occurs in the mucous membrane covering the' mouth, lips, and soft palate. The tumors are rounded, usually small, but sometimes as large as a hen's egg. They may be sit- uated in the deep layers of the mucous membrane, or project in a polypoid form. They are formed by an hypertrophy of the normal mucous glands. The glandular acini are increased in number and size; the epithelial cells are increased in number, and often i;ndergo colloid degeneration, so as to form cysts. Paj>illo7na occurs most frequently at the edges of the lips, 9130 FOST-MOETElf EXAMINATIONS, but is also found on the gums, the floor of the mouth, and tlic clieeks. The growths look at first like warts, and are formed of hypertrophied papillse covered by thickened epidermis. They have a marked tendency to ulcerate, and may then be- come the starting-point of epithelial cancer. In some cases, the growth of epidermis becomes the principal feature in tlie process. Over one or more hypertrophied papil- IsB, an immense growth of epidermis takes place, so as to form projections over an inch in length, the so-called cornu cutaneum. Epithelioma occurs most frequently on the edge of the lower lip, but has been observed at many other parts of the mouth It begins either as an ulcerating papilloma, or as a small no- dule deep in the mucous membrane. In either case, a portion of the mucous membrane becomes replaced by an indurated, ulcerating tissue. The disease may sj^read over a large part of the lips, the cheeks, the floor of the mouth, tongue, and pharynx. The neighboring glands are involved, and metastatic tumors, may be formed in other viscera. Carcinoma is said to occur, in rare cases, in the lips and pal- ate, and to assume there the medullary form. Angioma is frequent on the lips, rare on the palate; it may be congenital or developed after birth. Fihroma, Lipoma^ Encliondroina^ have been seen in a few cases in the lips. When they appear in the mouth, they usually grow from the bones. THE TONGUE. MALFORMATIONS. Absence of the tongue is found in connection with the ex- treme defects of development in the face already mentioned. The anterior portion of the tongue may be absent while its base remains. The lower jaw is then small. The tongue may be partly or completely adherent to the floor of the mouth. The frenulum may be abnormally short, or may extend to the tip of the tongue. In rare cases, the sides of the tongue are adherent; or its upper surface may be adherent to the roof of the mouth.THE TONGUE. 131 Yerj rarely the tongue is separated into two lialves by a cleft, extending from the tip to the root. There may be two tongues, one situated over the otlier. HYPERTROPHY. Makroglossia, or hypertrophy of the tongue, is usually a con- genital, sometimes an acquired condition. The congenital form continues to increase after birth. The jaws, lips, and cheeks are deformed by the pressure of the enlarged tongue. The tongue may reach an enormous size. Its surface remains smooth, or is nodulated and fissured. The increase in size ap- pears to be due principally to a growth of connective tissue. The muscular fibres retain their normal development. The lymphatic vessels are often enlarged. The epithelium is hyper- trophied. The hypertrophy is not always uniform ; part of the tongue may be larger than the rest. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation may involve the mucous membrane, or the in- terstitial tissue of the tongue. Inflammation of the mucous membrane forms a part of the different forms of stomatitis. Parenchymatous Glossitis is produced by injuries of the tongue, by mercury, typhus fever, small-pox, etc. It usually runs an acute course, and involves the entire tongue. Tlie tongue is swollen, red, fissui'ed, covered with crusts or fibrinous exudation. The swelling may be so grea4.as to cause suffocation and death ; or it may go on to suppuration or to gangrene; or be- come chronic, and result in fibrous induration. NEW GROWTHS. Cysts.—The most common forms of cyst are the large sacs beneath, or partly in the substance of the tongue, (Eanula.) Some of these are dilatations of the ducts of the submaxillary and sublingual glands ; others are new growths in the connec- tive tissue. Rarely cysts are found entirely in tlie tongue itselt.POST-MOBTEM EXAMINATIONS. 132 Small cysts ai'e sometimes found iu the mucous membrane of the tongue. In the floor of the mouth, beneath the tongue, dermoid cysts haA'e been observed. Angioma.—Cavernous vascular tumors are found in the sub- stance of the tongue, and projecting from its surface. Lipoma and Fibroma are rare. They may occur as nodules, or project in a polypoid form. Composite tumors, largely com- posed of fat, are found in the tongue as a congenital condition. Tiibercles are found iu rare cases in the form of ulcers, of which the walls are infiltrated with miliary tubercles. Syphilitic Gicmmata occur as white nodules in the intermus- cular fibrous tissue. JLupus occurs in the form of nodules and of ulcers at the base of the tongue. Sarcoma in this situation appears not to have been described. I have seen one such tumor in a young child. It formed a nodule as large as a chestnut, and was composed of roimd and fusiform cells. Epithelioma may begin as a j^rimary growth iu the tongue ; or the growth may invade it from the adjoining tissues. It may destroy a large part of tlie organ, invade the floor of the mouth, and form secondaiy tumors in the adjoining lymphatic glands. THE PIIAKYXX AND THE CESOPIIAGUS. MALFOKIIATIONS. Fistulous openings from the pharynx, running between the muscles, and perforating the skin, have been seen in rare in- stances. These fistulte are so small as to have iio practical in- terest. The oesophagus may be entirely absent, or its lower portion may be present, and joined to the pharynx by a solid cord ; or the pharynx, or the lower part of the oesophagus, may be con- tinuous with the trachea ; or the entire oesophagus may be re- presented by a solid cord. Diverticula of the pharynx, dilatations of the a'sophagus, and133 THE PHARYNX AND THE (ESOPHAGUS. division of tlie middle portion of the oesopliagxas into two branches liave all been observed. INFLAMMATION. Catarrhal and Croupous Pharyngitis are usually associated with the same forms of inflammation in the mouth, and have the same characters. Submucous Pharyngitis may occur with, inflammations of the mucous membrane, with caries of the cervical vertebme, with inflammation of the cervical and parotid glands, with periostitis of the cranial bones, or may be idiopathic. It may result in swelling and oedema, in induration, or in suppuration. It is most important when it affects the posterior wall of the pha- rynx, and forms retro-pharyngeal abscesses. Such abscesses may cause death by suffocation. Catarrhal (Esophagitis may be either acute or chronic. The chronic form may produce ulceration, or relaxation and dilata- tion of the walls, or hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Croupous (Esophagitis is found witli croup of the pharynx, and after the exanthemata and other severe diseases. Irritating and caustic acids and alkalies destroy larger or smaller portions of the mucous membrane. The necrosed por- tions are of a black or whitish color, surrounded by a zone of intense congestion. If the patient recover, the patches of mem- brane which have been destroyed slough, fall off, and leave a granulating surface. In this way, dangerous stenosis of the oesophagus may be produced. Foreign bodies, which are swallowed and become fixed in the oesophagus, cause inflammation of the mucous membrane and of the adjoining soft parts. The inflammation may go on to produce abscesses around the oesophagus, or to destroy the wall of the canal, and the foreign body finds its way into the trachea, aorta, or pericardium. Inflammation of the submucous tissue of the oesophagus, apart from the cases just mentioned, is not common. It may cause the formation of abscesses, or of fibrous masses, which may produce stenosis.134 EXAMINATIONS. POST-MORTEM ULCKKATION. TJlceratiGn of the Pharijnx occurs in rare cases as the result of catarrhal inflammation. More frequently it is produced by syphilis, either in the form of superficial iilcers, or of deep and extensive destructions of tissue from the softening of gummy tumors. Lupus, also, sometimes attacks the upper part of the pharynx. TJlceroiion of the (Esophagus is not common, and but little is kTK»wn concerning it. Some authors describe a simple perforat- ing ulcer, similar to that of the stomach. Foreign bodies in the oesophagus may perforate its wall, as already mentioned. Per- forations of the cesoi^hagns from without may be produced by inflamed bronchial glands, by cavities and gangrene of the lungs, by emphysema, by abscesses in the mediastinum, by ab- scesses accompanying caries of the vertebrte, and by aneurisms of the aorta. Cases have been described of rupture of the normal wall of the oesophagus by violent coughing and vomiting; but it seems probable that there was really some previous disease. DILATATION AND STENOSIS. The oesophagus may be dilated throughout its entire length, or at some one point. The general dilatation is most frequent- ly caused by stenosis of the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The Avail of the oesophagus is usually hypertrophied. Less frequently the entire oesophagus is dilated, without any satisfactory cause to account for it. The dilatation may be so great that a man's arm can be introduced into the cavity of the oesophagus. Its walls are then usually thickened, but sometimes thinned. The circumscribed dilatations may be fusiform or sacculated. The fusiform dilatations are congenital, or are produced by a stenosis at any part of the canal. The sacculated dilatations are situated at the upper part of the oesophagus or the lower part of the pharynx. They begin as a small pouch in the posterior wall and at right angles to it. SuchTHE PHARYNX AND THE CESOFHAGUF. 135 a poncli becomes longer as the food accumulates in it and hangs down behind tlie oesophagus. The pouch then compresses the ojsophagus, and its mouth forms nearly a straight line with the oesophagus above it, so that the food passes more readily into the sac than into the oesophagus below it. In this way, the sac is constantly distended with food, from which it is only reliev- ed by occasional vomiting. In this way, the dilatation goes on increasing until the patient dies from starvation. The causes of this condition are: portions of solid food re- maining for some time in the oesophagus or in a fold of its mu- cous membrane ; the traction of adhesions between inflamed lymphatic glands and the oesophagus ; stenosis and hernial pro- trusions of the mucous membrane of the pharynx through spaces in its muscular coat. Stenosis of the oesophagus is produced by changes in its walls or by external pressure. Changes in its walls are produced by new growths, by cica- trices, by thickening of the submucous connective tissue, and by hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Pressiu'e from without is produced by tumors in the neck and thorax; by enlarged glands; by aneurisms; by exostoses of the vertebrae; by the right subclavian artery, when it arises from the arch of the aorta on the left side and passes between the oesophagus and the vertebrae, or between the oesophagus and trachea; by abscesses in the neck and mediastinum; by tu- mors and abscesses in the lungs, liver, and diaphragm. NEW GROWTHS. Epithelioma is the form of malignant disease which most frequently attacks the pharynx and oesophagus, although true cancer is said to occur there. The upper part of the pharynx is seldom the primary seat of the disease. Usually it is invaded by the disease beginning in the mouth, the cervical glands, or the base of the cranium. In the lower part of the pharynx and the oesophagus the dis- ease is usually primary. The new growth may extend along the wall of the oesophagus for a considerable distance, but more frequently encircles it for a space of from one to five inches.136 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The growth begins in the submucous tissue. "We then find a liard, prominent ring encircling the oesophagus and producing a greater or less degree of stenosis; after a time, the mucous mem- brane and the new growth ulcerate,, and instead of the stenosis there is a cavity with ragged walls. Or, the mucous membrane ulcerates at an early stage of the disease, and the growth of the epithelioma does not exceed its destruction by ulceration. Then we find an ulcer encircling the oesophagus, of which the malignant character can be easily overlooked. More rarely the mucous membrane xilcerates and the pseudoplasm grows rapidly and projects in fungous masses into the cavity of the oesophagus. If tlie new growth.involves the entire thickness of the oeso- phageal wall, it may go on to invade the neighboring j^arts and may perforate the trachea, the bronchi, the lungs, the aorta, the pulmonary artery, or the vertebrje. Secondary and metas- tatic tumors are very rare. Fibroma occurs in thephai'ynx in the form of small polypoid tumors. These little polypi are covered with nuicous mem- brane, while their interior is made up of a loose, vascular fibro- cellular tissue. Besides these, large polypoid tumors make their appearance in the pharynx and posterior nares, which grow from the peri- osteum of the bones of the base of the skull and of the upper cervical vertebrae. These tumors push the mucous membrane before tliem, often reach a large size, and may prove fatal. Sarcomata also grow from the periosteum of the neighbor- ing bones and project into the pharynx. Lipoma is sometimes found in the wall of the oesophagus, forming small nodules in the submucous tissue. Cysts are sometimes formed in the walls of the pharynx and oesophagus by dilatation of the mucous glands. Myoma occurs in the form of hard, rounded tumors growing from the muscular coat. The tumors iisually project inward, and sometimes even have a i)olypoid shape.137 THE STOMACH. THE STOMACH. MALFOKMATIOXS. Malformations of the stomacli are not common. Tlie organ may be entirely wanting in aceplialons foetuses. It may be of various degrees of smaUness, sometimes no larger than the duo- denum. It may be divided into two halves by a deep constric- tion in the middle. The pyloric orifice may be stenosed or en- tirely closed. The stomach may be outside of the abdominal cavity from a hernial protrusion through the diaphragm, or at some point in the abdominal wall. It is found on the right side instead of the left, when the other viscera are transposed, and the position of the cardiac and pyloric orifices is correspond- ingly inverted. POST-MOKTEM CHANGES. In adults, the stomach after death presents a grayish or pink- ish color, mottled with red ecchymoses. The mucous mem- brane is soft, and the epithelium easily brushed off. At the fundus the food is usually found collected, and-here the mucous membrane is the softest. It is very common to find the epi- thelium removed from the entire fundus of the stomach, so that all that portion of its wall is grayer and thinner, there being a sharp dividing-line between the two portions. Sometimes this post-mortem softening process goes on to destroy all the coats of the stomach, and even the adjoining portion of the diaphragm. In this way, the contents of the stomach may be emptied into the pleural cavity by a large, ragged opening in tlie stomach and diaphragm. "When the softening affects all the coats of the stomach, the softened portion is not sliarply limited. The entire thickness of the affected portion of the wall is converted into a gray or yellow semi-transparent jelly, or into a blackish, broken-down pulp. This softening is most frequent in children, but also occurs in adults, usually in connection with severe and exhausting dis- eases. There have been and are many difierent opinions as to the nature of this softening process. Some believe it to be anPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 138 ante-mortem disease with regular symptoms. Some distinguisli an ante-mortem and a cadaveric softening, but acknowledge tliat it is not easy to distinguish between the two after death. Others hold that the process is entirely a post-mortem one, but are divided as to Avhether the softening is produced by the gas- tric juice or is a mere putrefactive change induced by the pre- sence of food in the stomach. All these points can hardly even now be said to be settled. The weight of evidence, however, seems to be in favor of the post-mortem and putrefactive na- ture of the softening. INJURIES. Perforating wounds of the stomach cause, as a rule, fatal peritonitis. In rare cases, however, the patient recovers with a gastric fistula, or even with complete closure of the wound. Rupture of the stomach is sometimes caused b}^ severe blows and falls. All the coats of the organ are torn through, or they are separated from each other by extravasated blood. Cases of spontaneous rupture of the stomach from over-dis- tension with food have been reported. Most, if not all, of them were probably really perforating ulcers. II^MOEKHAGE. An effusion of blood may take place in the cavity, or in the walls of the stomach. The blood may come from the mouth, oesophagus, or trachea, and be swallowed. Or it comes from the vessels in the wall of the stomach. The most frequent causes are: ulcers ; cancer; obstruction to the current of venous blood from diseases of tlic liver, heart, and lungs ; poisons and foreign bodies; dyscrasia\ as scurvy, yellow and relapsing fever; inllammatiou of the stomach ; and vicarious h;i3inorrliages. When the haemorrhages are in the cavity of the stomach, the organ is found to contain blood, either in clots or mixed with food, and converted into a black, grunious fluid. 'Not infre- quently, however, the blood is vomited during life, or passes into the intestines, and the stomach is left empty. When the blood escapes from large vessels destroyed byTHE STOMACH. 139 ulcers or cancer, the source of the h£emorrhage is easily dis- covered. But when the bleeding is from the capillaries in con- sequence of obstruction to the portal circulation, no lesions are to be found in the mucous membrane, excepting sometimes ec- chymoses. In relapsing fever, scurvy, purpura, and such diseases, the haemorrhage may be in the wall of the stomach, which then pre- sents a mottled red and gray color, or the superficial layers of the mucous membrane soften and fall off over such haemor- rhages, leaving little depressions—hsemorrhagic erosions. INFLAJLMATION. Acitte Catarrhal Gastritis is but seldom seen in autopsies, and does not present constant lesions. The mucous membrane may be red and swollen, covered Avith a layer of mucus and epithelium ; or the liypersemia, which existed during life, may disappear after death, and the stomach present no lesions. Chronic Catarrhal Gastritis is, on the other hand, very com- mon, but its lesions are not always pronounced. In the ad- vanced cases, the mucous membrane is red, white, or slate- colored, and thickened. The thickening is uniform, or it is punctate, giving the appearance of numerous little promi- nences—etat mamelonne. The gastric follicles atrophy, and the connective tissue between them is increased. At the same time the muscular coat is hypertrophied, and the thickening may be so great as to cause stenosis of the pylorus. Sometimes there are polypoid outgrowths from the mucous membrane, and some- times its glands become cystic. Less frequently hsemorrhagic erosions and ulcers are also found. In the lesser degrees of the disease, the miieons membrane is congested uniformly or in spots; or it is white and anaemic, or of an irregular slate-color. The pyloric portion of the stomach is the most frequent seat of these different lesions. Chronic catarrhal gastritis is either a sequence of acute catarrhal inflammation and due to the same causes—chanofes of temperature, irritating food or drugs, alcoholic drinks, and chronic diseases, such as phthisis—or it is caused by obstruc- tions to the venous circulation in the liver, heart, or lungs.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 140 The pressure of an aneurism of the arch of the aorta on the ascending vena cava may cause an intense and uniform con- gestion of tlie mucous membrane, which can hardly be distin- guislied from acute gastritis. Crouj)ous Gastritis is of rare occurrence. It is found in children with croupous inflammation of the phar^mx and oesophagus, and is then usually in small patches. In adults, it is almost always secondary to typhus, pyjEmia, puerperal fever, cholera, dysentery, the exanthemata, and irritating poisons. The false membrane is in small patches, or may line a large part of the stomach. The disease is usually not diagnosticated during life, the symptoms of the primary disease diverting at- tention from the gastritis. I have seen one case of idiopathic croupous gastritis in an adult. A man, 46 years old, was in good health until eight days before his death. At that time he caught cold, had pains over his bowels, tenderness over the liver, constipation, cough with mucous expectoration, temperature 102J°, pulse 120. On the day of his death, the 8th day of the disease, the temperature was 100°, pulse 112, tongue dry, abdomen tympanitic and ten- der, and he died in a prolonged attack of syncope. At the autopsy all the viscera were examined. Excepting evidences of bronchitis in the lungs, there were no lesions save in the stomach. About f of the internal surface of the stomach, in- cluding the lesser curvature and anterior and posterior walls, appeared to be covered with a thick false membrane, which did not quite reach to the cardiac or pyloric orifices. Minute ex- amination showed that there was a layer of exudation on the internal surface of the mucous membrane. This exudation consisted of fibrillated fibrine aiul lymphoid cells, dipping into the mouths of the follicles. Beneath the exudation the mucous membrane was thickened and altered. A large number of lymphoid cells separated the follicles, and even replaced them entirely. The submucous, layer was very much thickened by the presence of lymphoid cells, fibrillated fibrine, and fibrous tissue. The muscular coat was separated into layers by groups of lymphoid cells. Parenchymatous Gastritis, Gastradenitis, ParenchymatousTIJE STOMACH. 141 degeneration of the gastric tnbules. Tliis condition is founcl » with many severe diseases—Scarlatina, Measles, Typhus, Phos- phorus poisoning, Sinall-Pox, etc. The mucous membrane of the stomach is congested, uniformly or in patches, and swollen. The cells in the gastric tubules are enlarged, granular, and dis- tend the tubules. In the more chronic cases, there is no conges- tion. The mucous membrane is opaqiie, thick, and of a yellow- ish color. The tubules are distended with granular cells. Phlegmonous Gastritis is very rare. It may be secondary or idiopathic. In the latter case, it may cause death in a few days, with the symptoms of acute peritonitis. Tlie wall of the stom- ach is found thickened by exudation in its submucous coat. This exudation may run out, on section, as a yellow fluid of various degrees of density; or it remains in place as a soft, sticky, yellow material. These different appearances dej)end upon the relative proportion of lymphoid cells, fibrine and serum. The exudation may extend over part, or the entire extent of the wall of the stomach. It may break thi'ough the mucous mem- brane by small openings. There may be at the same time gen- eral peritonitis. Toxic Gastritis.—The mineral acids, the caustic alkalies, ar- senic, corrosive sublimate, and the metallic salts, phosphorus, camphor, and all other irritating materials, cause different le- sions of the stomach, according to their quantity, their strength, and the length of time that has elapsed before death. In large quantities, they destroy and convert into a soft, blackened mass both the mucous membrane and the other coats, so that perforation may take place. In snialler quanti- ties, they produce black or white sloughs of the mucous mem- brane, sm-rounded by a zone of intense congestion. If death does not soon ensue, the ulcerative and cicatricial j)rocesses which follow such sloughs, may contract and deform the stomach in various ways. If the poisons are of less strength, they produce a diffused congestion of the mucous membrane, with catarrhal or croup- ous exudation on its sm-face, and serous infiltration of the sub- mucous coat.142 POST-MOllTEM EXAJ[IXATIONS. Ik ULCERATION. The Simjple Perforating Ulcer of tlie stomacli is a lesion fre- quently seen. It occurs in young pei-sons, especially females. It may cause death by starvation, lijemorrliage, or peritonitis ; or may cicatrize completely, and the patient recover. These ulcers are usually single, but there may be several of them. They occur most frequently in the pyloric portion of the stomach, at some point in the posterior wall near the lesser curvature, but they may be found at any portion of the stomach. The ulcers are usually circular, sometimes oval, annular, or of irregular shape ; or two ulcers may combine to form an irre- gular figure. The perforation is largest in the mucous mem- brane, smallest in tlie peritoneum. The edges of the ulcer pre- sent no changes, or, if the ulcer is of long standing, are thick- ened and indurated. The rest of the stomach is unchanged, or is in a condition of chronic catarrhal inflammation. The ulcer may perforate directly through the Avails of the stomach; the contents of the organ are discharged into the peri- toneal cavity, and fatal peritonitis supervenes. This is espe- cially the case when the ulcer is in the anterior wall. Or ad- hesions are formed between the stomach and the neighboring viscera, so that the bottom of the ulcer is sealed. Or, if the liver, the intestines, or the abdominal wall become adlierent, they are invaded; an ulcerating cavity is formed in the liver, a fistulous communication is established between the stom- ach and the intestines, or the outer surface of the abdomen. Or the adhesions are only partial, and an abscess is formed about the perforation.- Such an abscess may remain shut in by adhe- sions, or may break into the cavity of the peritoneum, and cause peritonitis. During the progress of the ulcer, there may be repeated small liajmorrhages from the erosion of small blood- vessels, or large and fatal haimorrhages if large trunks are de- stroyed. In many cases, these ulcers completely cicatrize, leaving a stel- late scar ; or, if they are large, constricting the stomach in vari- ous ways.THE STOMACH. 143 The way in wliicli these ulcers are formed is very obscure, and the explanations usually given are theoretical rather than based on actual observation. It is said that they are preceded by a circumscribed stasis and lisemorrhagic infiltration of a por- tion of the stomach-wall, and that the part thus infiltrated after- ward sloughs, and leaves the ulcer. Such a stasis may be caus- ed : (1) by catarrhal gastritis ; (2) by embolism, or thrombosis of an artery of the stomach ; (3) by chronic or acute venous hy- persemia, especially from thrombosis of the gastric and portal veins; (4) by fatty and atheromatous degeneration of the blood-vessels. Ilmnorrhagic Erosions occur as rounded spots or narrow streaks, formed by a loss of substance of the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane at these points is congested, soft, and covered by small blood-clots. The destruction of the mucous membrane is usually superficial, but may involve its entire thickness. The number of these erosions may be so great that the entire internal surface of the stomach is studded with them. They give rise to repeated liasmorrhages, and are accompanied by catarrhal inflammation of the rest of the mucous membrane. They occur at all periods of life, even in infants. Their usual seat is the pyloric portion of the stomach. They may be idiopathic. Usually, however, they occur in connection with some serious general disease. Catarrhal Ulcers are formed with chronic gastritis. They are small, round, or irregular, superficial or deep, congested, and usually in small numbers. They may cicatrize or become perforating ulcers. Follicular Ulcers, formed by inflammation and ulceration of the solitary follicles are very rare. They occur most frequently in young infants. DILATATION AND STENOSIS. Dilatation of the stomach is spontaneous or produced by stenosis. "When produced by stenosis at the pylorus, the fundus is first dilated, afterward the entire stomach. If the stenosis is at another part of the stomach, that portion of the organ which isPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. between tlie stricture and tlie oesophagus is dilated. The walls of the dilated portion retain their normal thickness or are thin- ned. The stenosis is usually j^rodnced by hypertrophy of the muscular coat, by new growths, or by the cicatrization of ul- cers and sloughs. Spontaneous dilatation is produced by traction of the stom- ach downward from large hernite; by habitual distension of the organ with food; by contusions causing paralysis. In les- ser degrees, dilatation is produced by chronic gastritis and peri- tonitis. In very rare cases, circumscribed, sacculated dilatations are produced by indigestible bodies, such as wood, metal, etc., in the stomach. Diminution in the size of the stomach is produced by new growths, by hypertrophy of the muscular coat, by the cicatriza-* tion of ulcers and sloughs, and by habitual emptiness of the or- gan. In this way, the capacity of the stomach may become very small. NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma occurs in the stomach in all its different varieties : medullary, scirrhus, epithelial, melanotic, and colloid. It is a disease of advanced life, of equal frequency in men and women. It is, as a rule, primary in the stomach, excepting the second- ary nodules which may occur in the peritoneal coat, and belong rather to the peritoneum. But Cohnheim has described a case in which there were nodules in the wall of the stomach, second- ary to carcinoma of the mamma. It is usually situated at the pylorus aTul the lesser curvature; less frequently at other points. It may involve a small part, or nearly the entire wall of the stomach ; often extends to the oesophagus, rarely to the duodenum. The new growth may take an annular shape, and form a ring around the stomach; this is especially the case at the pylorus ; or it projects in the form of one or more flattened, broad tumors ; or there is a more uniform thickening of the walls of the stomach for a considera-145 THE STOMACH. ble distance ; or tliere are ulcers with tliickened edges and rag- ged floors. The disease begins in the submucous coat, or, according to some authors, in the gastric follicles. The mucous membrane is lifted up and pushed inward; after a time, it usually ulcerates. The new growth may also extend outward, and invade all the other coats of the stomach. There may be also an hypertrophy of the muscular coat, either confined to the pylorus or involv- ing the entire wall of the organ. The muscular coat then looks like a thick, gray layer, divided up by white bands. The gray tissue is smooth muscle; the white bands are fibi'ous septa, which may become infiltrated with cells. The post-mortem appearances vary according to the stage of the disease, and the way in which it has grown. At first, the new growth is confined to the submucous coat, and the mucous membrane is uniformly lifted up, or projects in flattened tu- mors. Yeiy often, however, necrotic and ulcerative changes soon make their appearance. The mucous membrane ulcerates, and the new growth projects as a ragged, fungous mass ; ortlie new growth also ulcerates, and leaves a rounded ulcer with thickened edges ; or the new growth ulcerates, and at the same time goes on to invade the subjacent tissues. In this way, the wall of the stomach is perforated, and peritonitis ensues; or ad- hesions are formed, and the perforation takes place into the in- testines, the abdominal wall, or the diaphragm ; or tlie disease invades the neighboring organs; the liver, pancreas, spleen, supra-renal capsules, kidneys, vertebrae, portal vein, and vena cava. The necrotic processes may even go on in the new growth in these other organs. Thus we find large cavities with fungous walls in the liver, communicating with the cavity of the stomach. When the new growth is at the pylorus, it may seriously ob- struct the egress of food, and in this way dilatation of the rest of the stomach may be produced. Secondary tumors are very frequently found in the neighboring lymphatic glands, the liver, pancreas, lungs, and other viscera. The above description applies to all the varieties of carcino- ma, excepting the colloid form. 10146 POST-ilORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Tlie distinction between tlie mednllaiy and scirrhous forms seems to be unimportant. It depends merely on the reLative proportion between the cells and stroma, a proportion which presents every sort of gradation. The presence of pigment also, forming melanotic cancer, seems to be merely an accidental complication. The structm-e of the medullary, scirrhus, and melanotic varieties is essentially the same: a fibrous stroma, inclosing cavities filled with cells ; the cells polygonal, nucleat- ed, and of an epithelial character. Epithelial Cancer of the stomach consists of cells resembling the normal cylindrical epithelial cells of that organ. The cavi- ties in which these cells are arranged are long, and resemble glandular follicles. The near relationship of the epithelial to the scirrhus and medullary cancer may be inferred from the fact that the secondary nodules in the liver are not always formed of cylindrical cells, but sometimes of polygonal cells. Epithe- lial Cancer with pavement colls is rare. It is secondary to simi- lar growths in the upper part of the alimentary canal. Colloid or alveolar cancer presents a different appearance. It usually forms a uniform infiltration of the wall of the stomach, especially of its pyloric portion. It has less tendency to ulce- rate, but often invades the entire thickness of the wall of the stomach, and appears on its peritoneal surface in the form of ir- regular nodules. The disease may spread over a considerable portion of the peritoneum, but does not usually foi'm secondary nodules. This form of cancer consists of a fibrous stroma, form- ing rounded alveoli. The alveoli are filled with a gelatinous material, in -which are imbedded polygonal nucleated cells. The presence of the gelatinous material gives to the entire growth a peculiar soft consistence, and gray translucent color. Sarcoma is found in the stomach in rare instances, both as a primaiy and a secondary growth. As a primary tumor, it is most frequent in young persons. It invades all the coats of the stomach, and projects inward as a fungous tumor. Myoma occurs in the form of rounded tumors, -which origi- nate in the muscular coat, but gradually separate themselves from it, and project inward or outward. Tlie submucous myo- uiata are at first small tumors, lying loosely attached in thesxib-THE STOMACH. 147 mucous tissue. As they grow larger, they pusli tlie mucous membrane inward, and appear as polypi, first with a broad, then later with a narrow pedicle. The subserous myomata grow in the same way, and form rounded or polypoid tumors beneath the peritoneal coat. Sometimes these tumors are partly sarcomatous. It seems probable that most of the fibrous tumors which have been described in this situation were myomata. Lipoma grows in the submucous tissue, and forms roimded or polypoid tumors. They usually project inward, but some- times oiitward beneath the peritoneum. They may also ap- pear in the foi'm of numerous small yellow nodules beneath the mucous membrane. Fihromapapillare consists in an hypertrophy of the normal villi of the stomach, or a new growth of similar villi. This growth may appear as a uniform thickening of a considerable portion of the mucous membrane, or in the form of polypoid tumors. Such polypi are single or multiple. The smallest form little rounded prominences; the larger have a small pedi- cle and large body. Their surface is smooth or villous. They consist of a central portion, formed of connective tissue, fibres, and cells. This is covered with a layer of little villi, covered with epithelium, and sometimes containing follicular glands. Adenoma is found in the shape of an hypertrophy of the glands of the stomach, which may assume a polypoid shape. Also, it occurs in the form of rounded tumoi's in the submucous coat, formed of glandular follicles, lined with cylindrical epi- thelium. Small glandular tumors, resembling the pancreas, have also been observed in the submucous and subserous coats. Lymphatic New Growths of the stomach are seen in some cases of leucDBmia. They form flattened or rounded tumors, 3-12"' broad, of soft, white consistence, and resemble in their structure the lymphatic glands. Cysts occur in the mucous membrane of the stomach from dilatation of the glandular follicles. They are usually small, but may reach a considerable size. They contain mucus and epithelium.148 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. DEGENEEATIOJ^S. Calcification of the mucous membrane is sometimes found as a metastatic deposit witli extensive disease of the bones. The salts of lime are deposited in a granular form in the connective tissue between the glandular follicles, and more rarely in the muscular coat. Waxy Degeneration sometimes invades the stomach. It at- tacks the vessels of the mucous membrane, and more rarely the cells of the glandular follicles. The mucous membrane appears thin and glistening. THE INTESTINES. MALFORMATIONS, Diverticula of the intestines occur in several different ways : (1.) The abdominal walls are cleft asunder at the navel. The ileum opens through this cleft by a narrow aperture in its wall. The lower portions of the ileum and the colon are small or en- tirely closed. (2.) There is an opening in the abdominal wall as before, but there is not a direct opening into the ileum. There is a long diverticulum of the ileum, with an open end projecting into the opening in the abdominal wall. (3.) The abdominal wall is closed. There is a diverticulum of the ileum connected with the navel by a solid cord. (4.) There is an unattached diverticulum of the intestine. This is much the most common form. The diverticula occur only in the lower part of the ileum. They usually spring from the convex surface of the intestine, more rarely from its attached border. In the latter case, they are joined to the mesentery by a fold of peritoneum. Tlie diverticulum forms a ])0uch, 1-6 inches long, of about the same diameter as tlie in- testine, smallest at its free extremity. Such diverticula never interfere with tlie fimctions of the "intestines. They sometimes form part of a hernia. If they re- main attached by a fibrous cord to tlie navel, this cord may be the cause of incarceration of a portion of the intestines.149 THE INTESTINES, Cloacae consist in the union of tlie rectum, bladder, and or- gans of generation in a common outlet. " (1.) Simple Gloacm are : (a.) Complete, and consist in the common opening of the urethra or ureters, the vagina and the rectum into the closed bladder, or into a sinus opening outward, which represents either the vagina or rectum, (b.) Incomplete, The rectum opens into the vagina, the bladder, or the urethra, while the lower part of the rectum is closed or absent. (2,) CloaccB combined with cleft hladder. (a.) The simple cleavage of the intestines is combined with cleft bladder. The anterior abdominal wall from the umbilicus to the symphysis, the symphysis, and the anterior wall of the bladder are absent; the gap is filled with a membrane which represents the pos- terior wall of the bladder. Into this membrane open the ileum, ureters, and vagina, (b.) The intestine is perfectly formed, but the rectum opens into a common sinus with the ureters and va- gina ; or the iireters open into the cleft bladder, and the rectum and external genitals are united ; or the xn-eters open into the rectum, and the latter terminates normally. (3.) Cloacae, combined with abdominal hernia. There is a hernial sac containing all the abdominal viscera. At the lower end of the sac is an opening leading into a sinus in which open the lower end of the ileum, the bladder or urethra, and the. ureters. The rectum is absent. Atresia Ani consists in a deficient development of the colon or rectum. The entire colon may be absent; the rectum may be absent, or represented by a solid cord ; or the upper or lower part of the colon may be absent, or sepai-ated by a solid cord. More rarely, blind terminations of the small intestines are found, and sometimes narrowing so complete as to close the canal. The intestines are also found abnormally shortened in vari- ous degrees. CHANGES IN POSFflON. Hernia. The abdominal viscera may escape from the abdominal cavity through openings formed by arrest of development, or throughPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 150 canals wliicli ai'e normally closed, oi" tliroiigli tliiu portions of tlie abdominal wall. Hernite, therefore, oecnr in a variety of situations. (1.) Hernia inguinalis. — (a.) The hernia is congenital. The processus vaginalis of the peritoneum remains open, a por- tion of the intestines passes through into the scrotum, and is free in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. (b.) The hernia is acquired. It is oblique and formed by a projection of the intestines through the internal ring, inguinal canal, and external ring into the sci'otuni. The intestines push before them the peritoneum, which incloses them as their sac. Or it is direct, and the intestines pass through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery, and tlien through the external ring. They are covered with a sac of peritoneum. (2.) Hernia femoralls.—-The intestine, covered by a sac of peri- toneum, passes through the femoral ring, descends along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening; through this opening it escapes into the areolar tissue of the groin. The hernia may only pass into the femoral canal, and not escape through the saphenous opening; it may continue along the course of the vein beyond the sapheno^^s opening; or it may project through several openings in the sheath of the vessels. This form of hernia is most frequent in the female. When in- complete, it not infrequently escapes observation during life. (3.) Hernia umbilicalis. (a.) Congenital.—In the foetal condition a portion of the ile- um lies within the umbilical cord. If this coil of intestine does not pass back into the abdomen, and the regular closure of the umbilicus does not take place, there remains a sac, lined with peritoneum, filled with intestine, and from the end of the sac the umbilical cord is continued. The sac may contain only a small portion of intestine, or nearly all the abdominal viscera. The wall of the sac is thin, and may rupture before or at the time of birtli. In other cases, either spontaneously or by surgical interference, the sac is obliterated and the hernia re- duced.THE INTESTINES. 151 (b.) Acquired.—The intestine covered by a sac of peritoneum projects into a sac formed by the skin at the mnbilicus. This ' hernia occurs in young infants when the navel is not firmly ci- catrized ; in adults, when there has been a small hernia in in- fancy ; and when the navel has been dilated by pregnancy, etc. (■1.) Hernia 'centralis.—There may be hernise of the abdomi- nal wall in the median line or to one side of it. The intestine may project through some defect in the fasciae, or there may be thinning and pouching of all the coats of the abdomen at some point. (5.) Hernia ischiadica.—The intestine, covered by a sac of peritoneum, passes along the course of tlie sciatic nerve througli the sacro-sciatic foramen under the gluteus maximus muscle. It is very rare. (6.) Hernia foraminis ovalis.—The intestine, covered by a sac of peritoneum, passes on tlie inner side of the obtm'ator ves- sels through the obturator foramen. (7.) Hernia perincBalis.—The intestine, covered by peritone- um, passes between the fibres of the levator ani muscle and pro- jects into the space between the rectum, the tuberosity of the ischiiim, and the point of the sacrum. (8.) Hernia vaginalis.—The intestine, covered by peritoneum, passes downward between the rectum and vagina, and presses the posterior wall of the vagina outward through the vulva. If the hernia is large, the wall of the vagina drags down the posterior lip of the cervix and the body of the litems. (9.) Hernia rectalis.—The hernia takes place between the bladder or vagina and the rectxun. The Avail of the rectum may then be pressed outward through the anus. (10.) Hernia diaphragmatica. (a.) Congenital.—This is produced by defective development of the diaphragm, which may be partly or entirely wanting on one side. Part of the intestines or most of the abdominal vis- cera may thus pass into a pleuritic cavity. They are covered by a sac formed of peritoneum and pleura, or are without any sac. Or the diaphragm is complete, but part of it is pouched into the pleural cavity. In rare instances, persons with this lesion reach adult life.152 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. (b.) Acquired.—This is produced by wounds or ruptures of tlie diaphragm, or tlie hernia projects through one of the na- tural openings of the diaphragm, or tlirongh an opening formed by a fat hernia. (11.) Hernia Hetroperitoncealis.—The intestine passes into the fossa jejuno-duodenalis. It consists of a small part of the jejunum, or of most of the small intestines. It is covered with a duplicature of peritoneum from the posterior abdominal Avail. For a detailed account of hernia, the text-books on surgery should be consulted. INCAECEEATION. (1.) The most common form is that in which a portion of intes- tine is strangulated by a librous band. Such fibrous bands are produced by peritonitis, or are remains of foetal growth. They pass from the intestines to the abdominal wall, or from one part of the intestines to another. The intestine becomes in some way caught under one of these bands, and is compressed by it. The stricture thus produced may cause a gradual accumulation of fieces in the intestine above it, and may last for a long time before death ensues. In other cases, the stricture interferes at once with the circulation of the blood ; the intestine is intense- ly congested, becomes gangrenous, and death takes place with tlie symptoms of general peritonitis. (2.) A portion of intestine becomes caught in some abnor- mal opening in the mesentery or omentum, or in the foramen of Winslow, or between the two layers of the mesentery. (3.) A coil of intestine makes half a turn at its base, so that the two sides of the loops cross at its base. In this way, the lu- men of the intestine is completely closed, and the vessels are compressed, so that congestion, peritonitis, and gangrene result. This form of incarceration is most freqiient in the ascending colon. In the small intestine it only occurs when the gut is fix- ed by old adhesions. (4.) A portion of the intestine, with its mesentery, makes one or more complete turns on itself, closing the canal, and com- pressing the vessels. (5.) A portion of the intestine makes a half or entire turn153 THE INTESTINES, about its long axis. Tliis is very rare, and only occurs in the colon. (6.) The mesentery of a part of the intestine is long and loose, in consequence of a dragging down of the intestine by a hernia or by habitual constipation. The portion of intestine thus permitted to hang down is habitually filled with faeces, and by its pressure on some other part of the intestine produces an incomplete stricture. INTUSSUSCEPTION. This change of position consists in the invagination of one portion of intestine in another portion. Usually this takes place in the direction of the peristaltic movements, from above downward ; more rarely, in the opposite direction. The parts are foxmd in the following condition : There are three portions of intestine, one within the other. The inner portion is continuous with the intestines above the intussuscep- tion ; its peritoneal coat faces outward. The outer portion is continuous with the intestine below ; its peritoneal coat also faces outward. The inner portion is turned inside out, its mu- cous membrane is in contact with the mucous membrane of the outer portion. In rare cases, the intussusception is complicat- ed by the invagination of a second portion of intestine in the inner tube, and even by a third intussusception into the second one. These changes occur both in the large and small intes- tine ; most frequently the lower part of the ileum is invaginat- ed in the colon. The invaginated portion may be from a feAV inches to several feet in length. The lesion is most frequently found in early childhood. The intussusception, by the dragging and folding of the me- sentery which it produces, causes an intense congestion of the parts, and even large lisemorrhages between the coats of the in- testine. The congestion may induce fatal peritonitis, or gan- grene of the intestine, or chronic inflammation and adhesions, and the patient lives for a considerable time with symptoms of stricture. In other cases, the invaginated portion of intestine sloughs, the outer and inner portion become adherent, and the patient recovers, with or without some degree of stricture.154 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Besides this grave form of intussusception, we often find, es- pecially^ in children, one or more small invaginations not at- tended with congestion or inflammation. These are formed during the death-agony or immediately after death. PROLAPSUS. Prolapsus of the rectum consists in the protrusion of the lower part of the rectum through the anus. It begins as a slight,prolapse of a small part of the rectum, or of its mucous membrane, only occurring in the act of defecation. The pro- lapsed portion becomes gradually larger and larger ; it no lon- ger returns of itself ; it is constricted by the sphincter, becomes hyperfemic, swollen, and inflamed, so as to form a mass of large size. The lesser degrees of prolapse are common, especially in chil- dren, and are of little importance. The higher degrees may be- come the seat of severe inflammation and idceration, and, in rare cases, gangrene and death may supervene. Sometimes only the mucous membrane prolapses, and the prolapse may not involve the entire circumference of the rec- tum, but only one or more folds of the mucous membrane. TRANSPOSITION. The position of the intestines may be the opposite of that usually found. The transposition may afiect all the abdominal viscera ; the liver and caecum are on the left side, the stomach and spleen on the right side; or only a single viscus is trans- posed, WOUNDS, RUPTURE. Penetrating wounds of the intestine usually prove rapidly fa- tal fi'om the peritonitis which supervenes. Sometimes, how- ever, the wound is closed by the formation of adhesions with tlie neighboring parts. The intestine may then remain bound down by adhesions, or after a time become free. Sometimes the wound in the intestine becomes adherent at the position of the wound of the abdominal wall, and an intestinal fistula is formed.THE INTESTINES. 155 Rupture of the intestines is produced by severe contusions. It is noticeable that contusions sufficiently severe to produce large ruptures of the intestines may not leave any bruises or marks on the external surface of the body, even when the pa- tient lives for several days after the receijjt of the injury. Perforation of the intestines will be considered under the head of ulcers. INFLAMMATION". The Rectum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the rectum is acute or chronic. In acute inflammation, we find the intestine congested, swol- len, covered with a thin layer of mucus, pus, and epithelium ; the epithelium in places destroyed so as to form superficial ulcers; the solitary glands enlarged. In chronic inflamma- tion, the mucous membrane is congested, or anaemic, or mottled with black patches. There are ulcers, either superficial or deep, and even perforating, so as to form fistulous openings into the surrounding tissues. Other parts of the mucous mem- brane hypertrophy, either around a solitary follicle, or around a group of straight follicles, or by cell-growth beneath the mucous membrane, and project in the form of polypi. In other cases, the mucous membrane is uniformly thickened. The mus- cular coat is relaxed and thinned, or, more frequently, hyper- trophied. This hypertrophy is frequently associated with thickening of the connective tissue around the rectum, and may cause fatal strictures. Croupous inflammation of the rectum occurs with acute dysentery and after the injection of irritating substances. The mucous membrane and submucous tissue are congested, swol- len, and infiltrated with serum. Its surface is covered Avith blood, epithelium, mucus, and a thin, brownish, membranous layer, composed of epithelium mixed with coagulated fibrine. This false membrane may be in patches, or may form a com- plete cast of the rectum. In more severe cases, the entire thickness of the mucous membrane is infiltrated with fibrine, so that large patches become gangrenous and are cast ofi:'.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 156 In this "way, the greater part of the mucous membrane may be destroyed. The milder forms of croupous inflammation, in -which only the superficial layers of the mucous mem- brane are destroyed, leave no permanent lesions. The deeper sloughing and ulcerative processes, on the other hand, leave large cicatrices and contractions of the intestines. The connective tissue around the rectum frequently shares in the inflammatory changes of the intestine, and becomes in- durated. It may also be the seat of idiopathic inflammatory changes, producing induration or abscesses around the rectum. The Colon.—The entire length of the colon is subject to the same inflammatory changes as the I'ectum. Acute and chronic catarrhal inflammation, with ulceration ; thickening of the mus- cular coat and the formation of mucous polypi; croupous in- flammation, with the formation of large ulcers, both occur. In rare cases, idiopathic croupous inflammation of the colon occurs, and causes death. The CcBCum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the ciBCum, or typhlitis, is not uncommon. It is usually produced by an habitual accumulation of faeces in this portion of the intestines. The course of the disease is usually chronic, but marked by acute exacerbations. The mucous membrane is at first con- gested, afterward ulcerated ; there is a slow, suppurative inflam- mation of all the coats of the intestine and of the surrounding tissues ; fistulous openings are formed through the wall of the caecum, through which the fteces pass into the cavity of the abdomen, and cause fatal peritonitis, or produce abscesses Avliich are shut in by adhesions ; or the fjeces pass through the peritoneum into the muscles of the posterior wall of the abdo- men, and form large cavities filled with pus and fieces. Perityphlitis.—There may be an idiopathic inflammation of the subperitoneal tissue just beneath the caecum. It forms large abscesses, which may perforate the ca?cum and allow the fteces to escape. Or the wall of the caecum may become relaxed, so that a persistent and even fatal constipation is produced. The Appendix Yermiformis is sometimes the seat of catar- rhal inflammation and ulceration, e.xcited by the presence in it157 THE INTESTINES. of small foreign bodies or hardened faeces. The ulcers fre- quently cause perforation, and, in consequence, the formation of abscesses, adhesions, and peritonitis. In other cases, the inflammation leads to closure of the neck of the appendix. It may then, by the accumulation of mucous and serum in its cavity, become a cj&t of considerable size. The abscesses which are formed in consequence of typhlitis, perityphlitis, or perforation of the appendix, may perforate into the bladder, vagina, uterus, acetabulum, ascending vena cava, other parts of the intestinal canal, through the abdominal wall into the muscles of the abdominal wall and the pelvis, through the diaphragm into the pleural and pericardial cavities. Ileum.—The ileum, especially its lower portion, is often the seat of acute and chronic catarrhal inflammation. In acute in- flammation, tlie mucous membrane is congested and swollen, the solitary and agminated glands enlarged. In chronic inflammation, both the mucous and muscular coats are thickened, the mucous membrane is congested and anjBmic or pigmented, often ulcerated. Croupous inflammation occurs in children in the form of aphthae; in adults, usually as the result of irritant poisons. I have seen, however, idiopathic croupous inflammation of the ileum in a few cases. The inflammation was most intense over about two feet of the intestine, hnt extended in a lesser degree down to the end of the ileum. Where the inflammation was most intense, the mucous membrane was congested, covered with a layer of fibrinous exudation, the solitary and agminated glands were not enlarged ; there was an infiltration of lymphoid cells and fibrine through the entire wall of the intestine, and a recent fibrinous exudation on its peritoneal surface, which did not, however, extend to a general peritonitis. Duodenum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the duodenum occurs by itself or with gastritis. It runs a chronic or acute course. It is principally important from its effect on the gall-duct, ob- structing the passage of bile into the intestine. Suppurative Inflammation of the submucous coat of the in- testines is said to occur in rare eases. It is usually metastatic. It takes place in the form of foci of varying extent, which per- forate either inward or outward.158 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. t'LCEKATIOX. 1. Catarrhal Ulceration occurs in the colon and ileum, witli catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane. Small round- ed patches of the mucous membrane appear at first deeply in- jected, then soften and fall off, leaving ulcers which are at first superficial and then deep. These itlcers then spread laterally, or several become joined, so as to form large nlcers, of which the edges are formed by the thickened mucous membrane, their floor by the muscular or peritoneal coat, infiltrated Avith cells. Such ulcers may destroy a large part of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, and may perforate. They cicatrize in the form of broad, hard, pigmented patches. By their contraction and the accompanying hypertrophy of the muscular coat, they may produce strictures. 2. Follicular Ulcers are formed by the inflammation of the solitary glands in the large intestine, and of the solitary and ao-minated glands in the small intestine. These o;lands increase in size; the mucous membrane over them softens and falls ofl\, so that they project as little, soft, rounded bodies, filled Avitli a whitish puriform material. The gland then ruptures, discharges its contents, and thus forms a rounded ulcer with overhanging edges. In the agminated glands, the process is the same on a larger scale. When tlie ulcer is tlius formed, its base and edges become infiltrated with lymphoid cells, and in this way tlie ul- cer may increase in breadth and depth, and even perforate the peritoneal coat. The ulcers which are frequently called tuberculous are really follicular ulcers ; but miliary tubercles may form in tlieir edges and near them as a secondary process. 3. Croupous Ulceration occurs in the large intestine from the infiltration and sloughing of portions of the mucous membrane. 4. Simple perforating Ulcers occur in the duodenum. They resemble exactly the perforating ulcers of the stomach, and seem to be formed in the same way. They are found with ul- cers of the stomach, or alone. They may be siugle or multi- ple. 5. Syphilitic Ulcers arc found in the rectum as an extensionTHE INTESTINES. 159 of cliaiicres of the vulva and perineum. They may lead to in- duration and stenosis of the rectum. E3IB0LI. Emboli have been observed in the superior mesenteric artery in a number of instances ; in the inferior mesenteric they are less frequent. They produce ah intense congestion of the in- testine, usually with haemorrhage from the bowels during life. Tlie intestine appears of a livid red color, swollen, moist, some- times almost gangrenous. STENOSIS AND DILATATION. Stenosis of the intestine is produced by hypertrophy of the muscular coat, by cicatrices, by new growths, by the pressure of tumors, (in one case by the pressure of an anterior spina bifida on the rectum,) by peritoneal adhesions, by foreign bodies. Dilatation of the intestine is produced by the accumulation of fjBces and gas above a stricture, or by relaxation of the walls of the intestine from concussion, habitual repletion, peritonitis, rheumatism, typhus, dysentery, cholera, over-stimulation by in- jections, and purgatives, or from some disease of the nervous centres. In some cases, not only the calibre, but also the length of the intestine is increased. False Diverticida are formed by a hernial protrusion of the mucous and peritoneal coats. They form multiple nipple-shap- ed pouches, from the size of a pea to that of a walnut. They are usually on the convex side of the intestine, less frequently on its concave side. They are found at all parts of the large and small intestine. They usually cause no symptoms during life. In one case, however, they appeared to be the cause of an acute peritonitis, though no perforation was discovered. Dilatation of the Appendix Vermiformis is produced by the stenosis or occlusion of its canal at some point. Be^^ond the point of obstruction the canal dilates so as to form a large sac with thin walls. The contents of the sac are thick mucus and epithelium, or serum.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 160 NEW GROWTHS. Myoma.—Tumors composed of smooth muscle and jfibrous tissue are found as small, rounded, hard bodies. They grow from the muscular coat, hut soon project into the submucous coat, and push inward the mucous membrane. They may entirely ob- struct the cavity of the intestine, and may then be seized by the peristaltic action of the intestine, and produce an intussuscep- tion. In the duodenum such tumors may obstruct the opening of the biliary duct. Such tumors are also said to project under the peritoneal coat. Lipoma may occur at any part of the intestinal tract. The tumors project beneath the mucous coat, and form polypi, some- times of considerable length ; or they are simply hypertrophies of the normal appendices epiploicae. In these latter, there may be an increase of fibrous tissue and sclerosis ; or the f;xt may be- come fluid, and form a sort of cyst; or they may calcify. Such tumors sometimes, by the atrophy of their pedicles, become free in the abdominal cavity. Adenoma occurs usually in the form of polypoid tumors. They are found in the rectum, and are most frequent in chil- dren. They are single or multiple, small or large, rounded or polypoid. They consist of long glandular follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium, and contained in a tibro-cellular stroma. Fibromapapillare has already been mentioned as j)roduced by chronic inflammation of the intestines. The tumors are of polypoid shape, and composed of fibro-cellular tissue, covered with epithelium. They are often made up of a great number of tufts, each covered with epithelium. Angioma is of very rare occurrence in the intestines, except in the form of the liajmorrlioids of the rectum, and as a degene- ration of the polypi mentioned above. Ilajmorrhoids are a form of angioma. They are produced by the dilatation of the veins supplying the lower part of the rec- tum. These veins communicate directly with the ascending vena cava through the internal iliiv;; but they also have large anastomoses, with the inferior mesenteric, and in tliis way they communicate with the portal system. Iltemorrhoids are inter-THE INTESTIKES. 161 nal or submucous ; external or subcutaneous; and mixed, or partly submucous and partly subcutaneous. The dilatation of tlie veins is accompanied with growth of connective tissue about them. The blood in the dilated veins sometimes coagulates and forms thrombi. Carcinoma of the intestines is usually primary. It may oc- cur as medullary, scirrhus, colloid, or cylindrical-celled epithe- lial cancer. At the anus, flat-celled epithelial cancer also oc- curs. The most frequent form is the epithelial cancer with cylindrical cells. Tlie rectum and colon are the parts most fre- quently attacked. The new growth usually surrounds the in- testine, and produces fatal strictures. In other cases, it perfo- rates into the abdominal cavity. Sarcoma^ botli white and pigmented, has been observed in the rectum. Lymphoma occurs in the intestines in cases of leucfemia. The nodules are soft, white, flattened, or rounded, and may ul- cerate. They are formed either as an hypertrophy of the soli- tary and agminated glands, or as growths, where these glands are not normally found. Cysts are of rare occui'rence. They are found in some of the polypoid growths. Rokitansky describes cysts in the intestines and mesentery, which were formed by cystic degeneration of the chyle glands. Tubercles of the intestines are principally confined to the se- rous coat and to the walls of ulcers. The so-called tubercular ulcers of the mucous coat are formed by the enlai'gement and ulceration of tlie solitary and agminated glands. They differ in no respect from the ordinary follicular ulcers already desci'ibed. Such follicular ulcers, when of long standing, may at their bases be infiltrated with small cells ; the lymphatics over them appear as white streaks, and in the peritoneal coat there may be a collection of miliary tubercles. DEGENERATION. Calcification attacks, in rare cases, the wall of the intestines, appearing in fibrous thickenings of the peritoneal coat. Waxy Degeneration may aflect the blood-vessels of the mu- llPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 162 cous membrane and of tlievilli; the villi themselves, and, more rarely, the muscnlar coat. ab:s^okmal coxtents. The ordinary fecal contents of the small and large intestines are, in inflammation, mixed with serum, epithelium, mucus, and blood. Blood in the intestines, from whatever source it is derived, when recent, is still red and coagulated. After a longer stay in the intestines, it becomes converted into a black, granular mass. Concretions are formed either of hard, dry, ftecal masses, or of mucus mixed with dried fseces, or collected around a foreign body, and impregnated with salts of lime. Such concretions are usually small, but may reach the size of a man's fist. They are round, oval, laminated, angular, or of irregular shape. They are found to consist of mucus, bile, fiscal matter, carl)on- ate and phosphate of lime, and triple phosphate. They may give rise to no evil efiects, or may cause inflammation, ulcera- tion, and perforation, especially of the appendix vermiformis. Sometimes the ulcerative process stops, and the concretion is left attached to the mucous membrane by membranous adhe- sions. Foreign bodies of every variety may be swallowed, and pro- duce different eftects in the intestines, according to their nature. PAKASrrES. Ascaris lumbricoides is found in the small intestine, either singly or in numbers. In rare cases, a number of worms may form a mass, which produces inflammation, ulceration, and per- foration. Oxyuris vcrmicularls is found in large numbers in the rec- tum. Tricocephalus disbar is found in the caecum. Atikylostomxim duodenale is found in the duodenum, and may give rise to considerable haMuorrhages. Trichina sj^indis is found in its adult condition in the small intestine.THE PERITONEUM. 163 Pentadomum denticulatum occurs in the submucous tissue of the small intestine in an encapsuled condition. Cysticereus cellulosw has been seen in a few cases on the mu- cous membrane. Tcenia solium, Tcenia mediocanellata, and Bothriocepludus lotus, are all found in the small intestine. THE PERITONEUM. MALFORMATIONS. Arrest of development in the peritoneal sac occurs in the shape of fissures in the mesial line, or external to it; in the case of the diaphragm being absent, of a fusion with the pleura ; as defective development of the mesentery, the omentum, and the other folds of the peritoneum. Excess of development occurs in the shape of unusual length of the mesentery, the omentum, and the other fold of the peri- toneum'; or of supernumerary folds and peritoneal pouches. These are chiefly found in the hypogastric, and, more especially, in the iliac and inguinal regions, and near the fundus vesicaj. There is access to these sacs by a well-defined fissure or ring, which is frequently surrounded by a tendinous band lying in the duplicature. They may give rise to internal incarceration of the intestines. (Rokitansky.) HYPEREMIA AND H^MOEEHAGE. Congestion of the peritoneum is general or partial. It is caused by obstructions to the venous circulation in the portal vein and vena cava, and by inflammation. It produces serous eff'usions in the peritoneal cavity, thickening of the peritoneum, small extravasations, and consequent pigmentation of the peri- toneum. Extravasations in and beneath the peritoneum'Vire found with purpura, scurvy, after contusions, parturition, etc. Hemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity is produced by wounds, contusions, rupture of the abdominal viscera, and of aneurisms.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 164 INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the peritoneum is acute or chronic, general or partiah Acvte General Peritonitis produces congestion, and an exu- dation composed of fibrine, lymphoid cells, and serum. The amount of congestion is variable, and does not always remain visible after death. It is most intense at the point where the in- flammation begins, especially if this is produced by a wound, or by perforation of the intestines, or of an abscess. That con- gestion exists during life, can be seen in animals in whom peri- tonitis is artificially excited. The stage of congestion may exist for a certain time before exudation takes place. How long, and under what conditions this is the case in the hu- man subject, is not known. There are cases of puerperal women who manifest all the symptoms of peritonitis, and die from it, without any perceptible lesions of the perito- neum or uterus after death. In such cases, Ave may admit the existence of a peritonitis without exudation, and in which the congestion has disappeared after death. The exudation, when present, is scanty or abundant. It forms a thin, gray mem- branous layer, agglutinating neighboring parts ; or the perito- neum is coated with thick, yellow material, composed of fibrine and lymphoid cells; or there is a large amount of yellow, puru- lent serum in the abdomiual cavity. Sometimes there are lit- tle extravasations of blood iu the tissue of the peritoneum, and mixed with the exudation, and sometimes the purulent serum is of a peculiar dirty brown, fetid character. The muscular coat of the intestines may be infiltrated with serum, relaxed and paralyzed. General acute peritonitis is usually fatal, but may pass into the chronic form, or may disappear, leaving membran- ous adhesions. In some cases, these adhesions will inclose masses of pus and fibrine. These masses may then become dry, cheesy, or even calcified, or they become fluid and jjurulent. Such abscesses inclosed by adhesions may rupture into the peri- toneum, and cause a second peritonitis, or they may cause a gen- eral chronic peritonitis, or perforate the intestines, or] lead to165 THE PERITONEUM. the formation of large abscesses beneath the peritoneum, or per- forate through the skin. Peritonitis is idiopathic, secondary, or metastatic. Idiopathic peritonitis is usually produced by wounds and contusions, or occurs in connection with the puerperal condition in Avomeu ; except in such cases, it is rare. Secondary peritonitis is produced by the continuation of in- flammatory and gangrenous processes of the abdominal viscera and wall. Thus, in the stomach and intestines, we find per- forating ulcers, irritative poisons, malignant new growths, in- carceration and intussusception, retention of faeces, and, rarely, severe catarrhal and croupous inflammation, producing a local peritonitis. Lesions of the uterus, the ovaries, the fallopian tubes, frequently cause general peritonitis. Inflammation of the urinary bladder, vesical and renal calculi, rupture and per- foration of the bladder, malignant growths of the bladder, nephritis, perinephritis, and tuberculosis of the urinary organs, may all cause peritonitis. In the liver we find abscesses, biliary calculi, new growths, hydatid cysts, and thrombosis of the veins actina; as irritatina; causes. In the spleen and pancreas, inflammation, suppuration, in- farctions, and new growths; in the cellular tissue, beneath the peritoneum, and -in the lymphatic glands, inflammation and suppuration, and new growths ; in the abdominal vessels, rup- tures of aneurisms, thrombosis of veins, may excite peritonitis. In the abdominal wall, inflammation, suppuration, and new growths; in tlie diaphragm, perforation from empyema and abscesses of tlie lungs often cause peritonitis. In some cases, without perforation, there is at the same time pleurisy and peri- tonitis, and it is diflicult to say whether the two are coincident, or whether one is secondary to the otlier. In the bones and muscles, caries of the vertebra? and ribs, with abscesses in the muscles, may cause peritonitis. In the peritoneum itself, new growths and hydatid cysts may cause inflammation. Metastatic peritonitis is found with pyjemia, the acute exan- themata, scurvy, and Bright's disease. Partial acute peritonitis is usually produced by inflammation166 POST-MORTEM EXAMINETIOXS. of some of the viscera wliich the peritoneum covers. The spleen, the liver, and the xiterus are very often found covered with adhesions produced by attacks of local peritonitis. Such a partial peritonitis may give rise to few or no symptoms during life, and usually subsides, leaving membranous adhesions. Sometimes, however, it produces abscesses in the subperitoneal tissue. In rare cases, the omentum alone is the seat of acute inHam- mations, sometimes leading to purulent infiltration. General chronic peritonitis is usually the result of an acute peritonitis. This is especially the case when masses of exuda- tion are shut in by adhesions, and give rise to a series of chronic inflammatory processes. In other cases, a long-continued obstruction to the portal circulation, caused by disease of the liver and heart, produces a thickening of the peritoneum and membranous adhesions between the viscera. There is usually at the same time ascites. In these cases the inner surface of the peritoneum is often covered with numberless little granules formed of clumps of epithelial cells. In rare cases, the exudation has a gelatinous appearance, and is produced in enormous quantities, so that the abdomen is dis- tended and the viscera compressed. In other cases of chronic peritonitis, there is a very consider- able thickening of the peritoneum with thick, lardaceous, false membranes, which cover the parietal peritoneum, form adhesions between it and the viscera, and cause the intestines to adhere together, so that they form a solid tumor. The adhesions are composed of connective tissue, fibrine, and fat, are yellow, of waxy consistence, and usually mottled with small haimorrhages. The lumen of the intestines is contracted, the peritoneal and muscular coats thickened. In tubercular peritonitis there are found numbers of gray, miliary tubercles in the peritoneum and in the false membranes. Tlie proportion between the number of tubercles and the amount of false membranes varies very much in dift'erent cases ; some serous eft'usion is also usually present. Chronic partial peritonitis is more connnon, and usually de-167 THE PEEITONEUM. pends on lesions of the viscera. The spleen, liver, and uterus are frequently the seat of a chronic inflammation, producing thickening of their capsules and membranous adhesions. Ulce- ration of the intestines, typhlitis, subperitoneal abscesses, etc., all lead to chronic partial peritonitis. In rare cases, the omen- tum alone is the seat of a chronic inflammation, producing fibrous thickening and adhesions. The most important feature of such a partial peritonitis is the interference with, or even stricture of, the intestine pro- duced by the adhesions. The subperitoneal tissues sometimes become the seat of suj)- purative inflammation, by which abscesses are formed. These retroperitoneal abscesses are caused by perinephritis, pericysti- tis, perityphlitis, periproctitis, perimetritis, periovaritis, in- flammation of the muscles of the back and abdomen, caries of the vertebrae, etc. The abscesses usually reach a considerable size, they invade the neighboring soft parts, produce caries of the bones, and finally perforate inward through the peritoneum, or outward through the skin. GANGRENE. Gangrene of the peritoneum is produced by incarceration and intussusception of the intestines, by abscesses, and, in in- fants, by gangrene of the ximbilicus. The portion of perito- nemn afiected appears as a slough surroimded by a zone of in- tense congestion, or as a softened, black, putrid mass. ASCITES. Besides the turbid fluid, composed of serum, pus, and fibrine, which we find as an inflammatory exudation in the peritoneal sac, we also meet with simple dropsical accumulations of serum. The serum, in these cases, is nearly colorless, yellow, green, or red. It is perfectly transparent, or opalescent, or contains fibri- nogenic material, which coagulates when exposed to the air. The composition of the fluid resembles that of the serum of the blood. The peritoneum appears unchanged, or is white and thick, or there may be adhesions between the different viscera.168 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The fluid is xisually free in the peritoneal cavity, but may be sacculated by adhesions. Sometimes, especially in children, there is oedema of the omentum alone. The serum not only distends the abdominal walls, but pushes up the liver and diaphragm, and causes the lower ribs to be bulged outward. A small amount of ascites is found often in cachectic and ill- nourished persons. A larger amount is usual\y caused by dis eases of the heart, kidneys, liver, spleen, lungs, and by any ob- struction to the portal vein or ascending vena cava. Ai)' is sometimes found in the peritoneal sac after perforation of the stomach, intestines, uterus, and abdominal wall. The spontaneous formation of gas in the peritoneum is doubtful. NEW GROWTHS. Fihroma of the lieritoneum is rare. The tumors grow from the subserous tissue. Tliose which have been described in this situation on the intestines are probably mostly myomata. Others, however, grow beneath the parietal peritoneum, project outward into the muscles, and are true fibromata. Lipoma.—An abnormal accumulation of fat in the omentum and mesentery, and beneath the peritoneum, is often seen. Be- sides this, circumscribed fatty tumors are found beneath the in- testinal and parietal peritoneum. On the intestines they are usually hypertrophies of the appendices epiploicfe. These tu- mors often degenerate, calcify, become indurated, their pedicle atrophies, and they become free in the abdominal cavity. When they grow beneath the parietal peritoneum, they may form fat hernite, hernia lipomatosa. At the ilmbilicus, in the inguinal canal, and along the vas deferens, in the crural ring, and in the foramen obturatorium, fatty tumors may grow, pro- ject outward ixnder the skin like hernia^, and, by drawing the peritoneum after them into a pouch, may lay the foundation of a future intestinal hernia. Mijxoma.—In persons much emaciated and debilitated by chronic disease, the fat beneath the intestinal and parietal peritoneum sometimes undergoes mucous degenei'ation, and is converted into a gelatinous substance of a light yellow color.169 THE PERITONEUM. In tlie pelvis of the kidneys, new growths of mucous tissue are found, which project inward into the abdominal cavity. Such tumors, however, are usually combinations of myxoma and sarcoma. Sarcoma appears in the form of solitary, slowly-growing tu- mors behind the peritoneum, or between the folds of the mesen- tery. Tliey may reach a large size, and by their pressure on the A^eins and the intestines, cause thrombosis of the large veins and obstruction of the intestines. They may give rise to metastatic tumors of the peritoneum and of the viscera. In the peritoneum itself, especially in the omentum, the me- sentery and the appendices epiploicse sarcomata are found both as primary and secondary tumors. They are frequently very vascular. Carcinoma of the peritoneum is either primary or secondary. It assumes the form of colloid or of true carcinoma, either hard or soft. The colloid form, when primary, involves the greater part of the peritoneum, and forms a large mass which distends the ab- domen. The omentum is changed into a large gelatinous mass; the subjacent muscles, the lympliatic glands, and the liver are infiltrated with the new growth, and soft gelatinous masses pro- ject into the peritoneal cavity. The iimbilicus is sometimes in- vaded, so as to project outward in the foi'm of a semi-translu- cent tumor. The appearance of the new growth is that of a soft, jelly-like mass, imbedded in a fibrous stroma. The minute structure consists of fibrous alveoli, containing epithelial cells, and a homogeneous, transparent, gelatinous substauQe. Wlien the disease is far advanced, no cells are to be found. When the new growth is secondary, it appears in the form of numerous little nodules on the free surface of the peritoneum. True carcinoma is either primary or secondary. It usually appears in the form of numerous small nodules in the intestinal and parietal peritoneum. These nodules are small, firm, and white. They are often united by a flat layer of the same new growth, so that the peritoneum is changed into a uniform, thick, white membrane. Less frequently, carcinoma appears as soli- tary, soft, medullary growths.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, 170 Tuberdes.—Gray and yellow miliary granulations are found in the peritoneum in some cases of general tuberculosis. They are found in the omentum without any inflammatory le- sions, or in the peritoneum, over ulcers of the intestines, or in connection with fibrinous exudation and membranous adhesions in tubercular peritonitis. Cysts.—In rare cases, dermoid cysts containing fat, hair, bones, etc., are found in the parietal and visceral peritoneum, and in the omentum. These are probably congenital. Roki- tansky describes a cystic degeneration of the mesenteric glands. In the broad ligaments of the litems, both serous and colloid cysts are found. PARASITES. Ecliinococci are found in hydatid cysts, beneath the capsule of the liver, in the omentum, and beneath the parietal and vis- ceral peritoneum. They are surrounded by false membranes. THE LIVER. MALFOEMATIONS. Congenital malformations of the liver are not common, and are of little practical importance. The organ may be entirely wanting, the lobes may be diminished or increased in number ; its form may be altered, so that it is rounded, flattened, triangu- lar, or quadrangular. The gall-bladder may be wanting, the ductus choledochus may be double, both ducts emptying into the duodenum, or one emptying into the duodenmn, the other into the tomach. The single ductus choledochus may also empty into the stomach. In congenital transposition of the viscera, the liver is found on the left side, the stomach and spleen on the right side. Small, isolated bodies, having the same structure as the liver, have been found in the suspensory ligament. They arc analo- gous to tlie little accessory spleens.171 THE LIVER. CIIAKGES IN SIZE AND POSITION. Changes in tlie size and form of tlie liver are frequent. The congenital malformations remain dm'ing life, and the liver is found quadrangular, or with abnormal fissures and lobes, or with abnormal size and shape of the lobes. The left lobe espe- cially varies very much in size. In females we find changes in the shape of the liver produced by tight lacing. By the narrowing of the base of the thorax, the organ is compressed from side to side, and its convex surface is pressed against the ribs. In consequence of this, there are found ridges and furrows on its convex surface. In consequence also of the circular constriction, a part of the right, and usually of tlie left, lobe also becomes separated by a depression. Over this depressed and thinned portion of the liver, the capsule is thick and opaque. In extreme cases, the depressing and thin- ning reach such an extent that there is only a loose, ligament- ous connection between the separated portion and the liver. New growths, liydatic cysts, and abscesses often produce a marked increase in the size of the liver. Fatty and waxy degeneration increase the size of the liver. Cirrhosis sometimes increases the size of the liver, but more commonly diminishes it, and produces lobulation. Syphilitic hepatitis, obstruction of branches of the portal vein, and partial inflammations and cicatrizations, also produce lobulation of the liver. Changes in the position of the liver are produced by altera- tions in its size, by pressure downward from the thoracic cavity, and upward from the abdomen, by the constriction of tight lac- ing, by tumors or circumscribed serous exudation between the liver and diaphragm, by curvature of the spine. "When the liver or lower portion of the liver is constricted b}' tight lacing, the axis of the organ falls downward, and the edge of the right lobe protrudes far below the margin of the ribs. If there is at the same time a deep depression in the right lobe, from the same cause, and the intestines lie in this groove, it may seem as if there was a tumor, separated from the liver, in the right iliac region. "When the upper third of the liver is com-POST-MORTElt EXAMINATIONS. 172 pressed, its axis is carried downward, and the entire organ push- ed toward the median line. The liver may then fill the upper lialf of the abdominal cavity. When the contents of the thorax are increased, the liver is pushed downward. In pulmonary emphysema, the liver may be depressed from one to one and a half intercostal spaces. In pleurisy, empyema, and hydropneumothorax of the right side, the liver is pushed downward and dislocated, so that its convex surface is in apposition with the abdominal wall. When the eflfusion is in the left pleural cavity, the liver is pushed toward the right side, and slightly depressed. Very great serous effusion in the pericardium may depress the liver, especially the left lobe. Intra-thoracic tumors depress the liver, according to their situation. When there is fluid or a new growth in the abdomen, or gas in the intestines, the liver is pushed directly upward, without any change in its axis. Structural changes in the liver increase or diminish its size, and cause an increase or diminution in its thickness. There have been a very small number (3) of cases reported of dislocated and movable liver. They all occurred in women who had borne children. The diagnosis was made during life, and no post-mortem examination of the cases was made. The transverse colon may become fixed above the liver, so as to push it backward, downward, and to the right. INJUEIES. Wounds of the liver produce haemorrhage and inflammation. They are usually fatal; but the patient may recover, even after the destruction of a considerable portion of the organ. Rupture of the liver is produced by severe contusions and falls ; it results in large hajmorrhages, and is very fatal. IIYPER.EMIA. Ilyperaemia of the liver is either an active or a passive pro- cess. In health, the amount of blood in the liver varies at different173 THE LIVEK. times, being regularly increased during the process of digestion. When the digestive process is imtated by the ingestion of spirits, spices, etc., the hyperjEmia assumes abnormal proportions, and, when often repeated, leads to structural changes in the organ. Severe contusions over the region of the liver sometimes cause a hypersemia, which may result in suppurative or in in- durative inflammation. In hot climates and in malarious districts, active and chronic hyperjEmia of the liver are frequent, and often cause structural lesions. In scurvy, also, the liver is sometimes congested. Cessation and suppression of the menses, and of hsemorrhoidal bleeding, may cause hypersemia of the liver. In all these varieties of active congestion, the liver is enlarged, of a deep red color, and blood flows freely from its cut surface. The passive congestions of the liver are produced by some ob- struction to the current of blood in the hepatic veins. Yalvular diseases of the heart, emphysema, and fibroids induration of the lungs, large pleuritic eff'usions, intra-thoracic tumors, angular curvature of the spine, aortic aneurisms pressing on the vena cava, and constrictions of the vena cava and of the hepatic veins, may all produce a chronic hypersemia of the liver. In all these cases, as the congestion affects principally the hepatic veins, we find the centime of each acinus congested and red, while its peri- phery is lighter colored. This gives to the liver a mottled or nutmeg appearance. The liver-cells in the centre of each aci- nus are frequently colored by little granules of red or black pig- ment, and the cells at the periphery become fatty, so that the nutmeg appearance is still more pronounced. A liver in this condition is visually of medium size, hnt may be smaller or larger than normal. When the congestion is long continued, the veins at tlie cen- tre, of each acinus may become dilated, the hepatic cells in their meshes become atrophied, so that the centre of each acinus con- sists only of dilated capillaries and new connective tissue. The liver then becomes small, and has a finely granular appearance. But I have seen the liver enlarored while these changes existed. In other cases, the obstruction of the hepatic veins does not produce the irregular nutmeg congestion. The entire organ isPOST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIONiS. 174 congested, of a dark red color, of very fii'm consistence, some- what increased in size; tlie intra-lobular veins and the central portion of the capillar}^ plexus of each acinus are much dilated. ATROPHY. 1. Senile Atrophy.—The liver may be diminished in size by any causes which interfere with its nutrition. Old age, insuf- hcient food, new growths of the stomach, chronic poisoning with lead, mercury, arsenic, and antimony, are among the most com- mon of such causes. The liver is found atrophied in all its di- mensions, firm, the acini small. 2. Yellow Atrophy.—During pregnancy, after typhus fever, with phosphorus poisoning, and from ixnknown causes, we some- times meet with severe symptoms, coma, delirium, jaundice, etc., during life. After death, the liver is found small, flabby, yellow, anjEmic, its cells in a condition of fatty and granular defeneration. Our knowledge concerning the nature of the dis- ease, its causes, and the relation between the symptoms and le- sions, is very imperfect, 3. Bed Atrophy.—In a few cases, symptoms of much the same character, but of longer duration, arc accompanied by a different condition of the liver. The organ is very much atro- phied in all its dimensions. It is of a bright or dark red color, mottled with rounded yellow spots. In some cases, the red and yellow colors are more irregularly distributed, so that a large part of a lobe may be yellow. In the red portions of the liver, the acini are atrophied ; in the yellow portions, they are hyper- trophied. In the yellow portions, the hepatic cells arc large and fatty. The interstitial tissue and vessels are unchanged. Tlie red portions consist of loose connective tissue, in which are small spaces filled with granular fat and bile pigment. There are al- so peculiar, long, branching follicles, lined with polygonal cells, of which the nature is obscure. Some authors regard red atro- phy as a more advanced stage of yellow atrophy. 4. Cyanotic Atrophy may ho produced by any cause Avhich impedes the flow of blood from the hepatic veins. The liver is diminished in size, is very hard, of mottled red and yellowTHE LIVER. 175 nutmeg color, or of a uniform dark red. Tlie veins at tlie cen- tres of tlie acini are dilated; the liver-cells between tliem are atrophied, pigmented, and diminished in number. The periphe- ral cells are normal or fatty. There is a production of lym- phoid cells at the centres of the acini. Atroj^hy of the liver is also produced by obliteration or ste- nosis of the portal vein and its branches, by obstruction of the capillaries by pigment, and by obliteration of the capillaries. Permanent obstruction of the- hepatic or common bile duct may produce atrophy. The biliary ducts throughout the liver are dilated, the liver is stained at first yellow and afterward green, the consistence is soft, the size of the organ is much di- minished, and the liver-cells are pigmented, fatty, and broken down. Chronic perihepatitis, with great thickening of the entire capsule of the liver, sometimes produces marked atrophy with the symptoms of cirrhosis. ■ iiypketropiiy; Simple hypertrophy of the liver is to be diagnosticated with great caution. It is found with leucsemia, diabetes, phthisis, and cardiac disease, in malarious districts, and without known cause. The liver is inc reasedin size, the acini are larger than normal, the liver-cells are increased in size or number, the blood-vessels are also large. lI.EMOKEnAGE. Extravasations of blood in the hepatic tissue, or, more fre- quently, beneath its capsule, are found in new-born children after tedious or forcible labors, and with atalectasis of the lungs. The blood may burst through the capsule, and be found in the peritoneal cavity. In adults, such extravasations are rare. They are seen in the malignant, malarious fevers, especially in tropical countries ; in scurvy and purpura; and in consequence of external vio- lence. Tliere are also a few cixrious cases recorded of such sud- den hsemorrhages in Avhich no cause was discovered. The ex- travasations of blood are beneath the capsule, or circumscribedPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 176 in the hepatic tissue, or in the form of a diffused haeniorrhagic softening. If tlie extravasation is small, it may be absorbed, leaving a cicatrix. According to Stokes, such htemorrliages may produce gangrene of the liver. INFLAMMATION. The liver is often the seat of inflammatory changes. These changes affect the capsule of the organ, its interstitial connec- tive tissue, or its cells; they involve either a portion or the whole of the liver. PERIHEPATITIS. The capsule of the liver and its prolongations along the ves- sels are frequently inflamed. The inflammation may be part of a general peritonitis, or may be confined to the liver. When the inflammation is confined to the liver, it is depen- dent upon the different forms of hepatitis; upon new growths and hydatids of the liver ; upon pleurisy of the right side ; upon syphilis ; rarely upon traumatic causes ; and very frequently occurs without any assignable cause or previous symptoms. Perihepatitis usually results in thickening of the capsule and the formation of membranous adhesions. These lesions are usually of little consequence, and frequently give rise to no symptoms during life. In some cases, however, the entire cap sule is very much thickened, the liver is small and compressed, and the synqjtoms are those of cirrhosis. In rare cases perihepatitis is purulent, and produces collec- tions of pus shut in by false membranes. The inflammation of the prolongations of the capsule on the vessels will be considered with diseases of the vessels. CHRONIC PARENCHYMATOUS HEPATITIS. Fcirster describes, under this name, a lesion which he says is usually confounded with cirrhosis. The liver is at first large, congested, or antemic. Following the stage of hypertrophy, a gradual, slow atrophy sets in. The organ is small, anfemic, yellow, and has a granular a]ipearance. This granular a])pearance, however, is not like that of cirrhosis,THK LIVER. 177 but is produced by tlie destruction of some of the acini, and the consequent nndue prominence of otliers. The liver-cells are destroyed, or are small and granular. This lesion may produce jaundice, ascites, and sometimes . death. INTERSTITIAL HEPATITIS. Interstitial hepatitis is acute, and leads to the formation of abscesses ; or chronic, and results in the formation of new con- nective tissue. PUEULENT HEPATITIS. The study of the formation of abscesses in the liver has been very much confused by confounding two separate pathological conditions. (1) Abscesses formed by a purulent hepatitis; (2) abscesses formed by the irritation of emboli, and from throm- bosis of the portal vein. The description of the first stages ot the lesion is usually drawn from the second, and of the latter stages from the first of these conditions. (1.) Idiopathic abscesses are of rare occurrence, except in tro- pical climates. In temperate climates, so few cases are seen that we know but little of their causation. A few cases are re- corded in which severe contusions were the exciting causes of abscesses of the liver. Dysentery, with ulceration of the large intestine, is sometimes associated with single abscesses of the liver 3 but the exact relation between them is not well known. Inflammation and ulceration of the bile-ducts, excited by the presence of biliary calculi, or of intestinal worms, may produce multiple abscesses by the extension of the inflammation from the ducts to the liver tissue. Of the earlier stages of idiopathic suppurative hepatitis but little is known. The abscesses are not seen in autopsies until after they are fully formed. They may then reach a large size, and are usually single, though sometimes multiple. They may be opened by the surgeon through the abdominal wall; or rup- ture spontaneously into the pleural cavity, the lungs, the abdo- minal cavity, the stomach and intestines, the hepatic vein, the 12POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 178 bile-ducts, tlie gall-bladder, the right kidney, the muscles and skin of the abdominal wall. Such abscesses usually prove fa- tal ; but sometimes their artificial or spontaneous evacuation is followed by recovery, (2.) Abscesses of the liver are formed in the same way as embolic abscesses in other viscera. There is thrombosis, from some cause, in the portal vein or its intestinal branches, or in the veins of the lungs, or in any of the veins belonging to the aortic system. A portion of such a thrombus finds its way either into one of the small branches of the portal vein, or of the hepatic artery. This sets up a suppurative inflammation of the adjoining portion of liver tissue. The thrombus simply acts as an irritant, and produces suppuration without infraction. (3.) In thrombosis of the portal vein, the thrombi extend into the liver as far as the small interlobular veins. The veins are filled with a thrombus, which is either firm and white, or soft and puriform. Their walls are thickened, the inner surface becomes opaque and rough, and is sometimes lifted up by little collections of pus, the middle and external coats and the cap- sule of Glisson are all infiltrated with lymphoid cells. The liver-cells and the branches of the hepatic veins are compressed and degenerate from the pressure of the enlarged and inflamed branches of the portal vein, the liver-cells atrophy, break down, and disappear, and there is left an abscess filled with pus and debris. CHRONIC INTEKSTITIAL HEPATPriS.—CIKRIIOSIS. The interstitial connective tissue which accompanies the veins and bile-ducts, in their ramifications through the liver, is frequently the seat of a chronic inflammation which results in the formation of new connective tissue. It has been thought necessary by pathologists and clinicists to describe different stages of the disease which must succeed each otlier. Such a description is forced and without sufficient anatomical basis. We meet with different degrees and qualities of the lesion, but we do not know their relationship. The appearances vary according to the amount of new con-179 THE LIVER. nective tissue, its distribution, its vascularity, and the condition of the hepatic cells. In the least advanced condition, we find the liver of normal size or larger, not congested, fii-mer and smoother than usual, of a light red or yellow color, with a peculiar glistening reflex, like that of a waxy liver. The edges of the acini are sur- rounded by a light yellow streak, which is composed of connec- tive tissue fibres, with a variable number of cells. The hepatic cells are usually normal, sometimes fatty. In other cases, the liver is increased in size, its edges rounded, of a yellowish brown color, its surface slightly uneven, its cap- sule thickened. Groups of acini are surrounded by bands of red- dish gray, vascular connective tissue. When the lesion is far advanced, the liver is usually much diminished in size; sometimes, however, it is very much larger than the normal. The capsule is thickened, the surface is strikingly irregular, and thrown into nodules of variable size. These nodules are of a yellow color, or stained green by the bile. They are surrounded by a layer of dense white or pinkish connective tissue. The increase of connective tissue takes place about each acinus separately, or about groups of acini, or in both ways. The new tissue is composed of fibrous tissue alone, or is largely cellular. The degree of vascularity also varies, and gives different shades of color. The relative amount of cells and fibres in the new connective tissue does not seem to indicate an early or late stage of the disease ; for in cases where the lesion is of long standing, and the liver atrophied, the cells are sometimes abundant. The hepatic cells usually become fatty, or may be waxy or pigmented, or are broken down and destroyed. The pigment is derived from the bile, and is of a yellow or green color; or from the blood, and is reddish brown. The smaller branches of the portal vein are narrowed and compressed by the new connective tissue. Sometimes the main trunk and large branches are dilated. When the new connective tissue has replaced the hepatic structure, the capil- lary venous plexus is entirely destroyed, and there are only irregular vessels which can be injected from the portal vein and180 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. liepatic artery. In some cases, the portal vein and its large branches have been found filled with large thrombi. The hepatic artery becomes enlarged and its branches are more extensive. The hepatic veins are usually unchanged, with the exception of their capillaries, which ai*e gradually destroyed. The bile-ducts are compressed by the new tissue; the mucous membranes of the large ducts may be inflamed and swollen, and the gall bladder is often thickened and adherent. The obstruction of the portal circulation, produced by cirrhosis, gives rise to a number of secondary lesions. There are a number of veins which can afford a collateral circulation between the j)ortal vein and the vena cava. There are normally anastomoses between the internal and inferior hsemorrlioidal veins; between the left coronary and the oesopha- geal and diaphragmatic veins; between the haemorrhoidal and vesical veins ; between the coronary vein of the stomach, the gastro-epiploic veins and the renal veins; between the superior mesenteric and the left renal vein; between the vasa brevia and the left phrenic vein. All these vessels, however, are seldom enlarged in cirrhosis. There are sometimes large anastomoses between the veins of Glisson's capsule and the diaphragmatic veins. In rare cases, a very peculiar dilatation of the cutaneous veins about the umbilicus is observed. The enlarged veins form a circular network around the umbilicus, or a pyramidal tumor alongside of it, or all the veins of the abdominal wall, from the epigastrium to the inguinal region, are dilated. This condition is produced by the congenital non-closure and sub- sequent dilatation of the umbilical vein and its anastomoses with, the internal mammary, epigastric and cutaneous veins. According to Sappey, it is not the mnbilical vein which is dilated, but a vein which accompanies the ligamentum teres. There is very frequently also a dilatation of the veins of the abdominal wall, which has a difierent cause. It is produced by the pressui-e of the fluid of ascites on the vena cava, and is found with ascites from any cause and with abdominal tumors. Ascites is the most common secondary lesion of cirrhosis. ItTHE LIVER, 181 begins at an early stage of the disease, and increases constant- ly. It usually precedes oedema of tlie feet, but both may appear at tlie same time. This fluid is of a clear yellow or brown, green or red ; it is sometimes mixed with shreds of fibrine, and more rarely with blood. The pei'itoneum remains normal, or becomes opaque and thick, or there may be adhesions between the viscera. The spleen is very fi-equently enlarged, and the enlargement may be very considerable. When it is not increased in size, this is usually due to previous atrophy of the organ, or to fibrous thickening of its capsule, or to haemorrhages from the stomach and bowels, occurring just before death. The stomach and intestines are often secondarily aiFected by the obstruction to the portal circulation. Profuse hasmorrhage from the stomach and intestines may occur, and sometimes causes sudden death. The mucous mem- brane is then found pale, or congested, or with hsemorrhagic erosions. Sometimes the blood is infiltrated in the coats of the stomach and intestines. The mucous membrane of the stom- ach, and of the entire length of the intestines, is sometimes imi- formly and intensely congested, and coated with mucus. In other cases both the mucous and muscular coats are pale, but very markedly thickened. The causes of cirrhosis are not well known. It is a disease of adult life, and is often found in habitual drinkers; but there are many cases in which no cause can be discovered. SIMPLE INDURATION OF THE LIVER. This name has been given to a variety of chronic interstitial hepatitis, in which the new fibrous tissue has a difiierent arrange- ment. It is produced in masses of considerable size, which re- place the hepatic tissue, and are smooth and dense. In a considerable number of cases, this lesion occurs in per- sons who have been the subject of constitutional syphilis. The history of the disease is the same as that of cirrhosis.182 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. SYPHILITIC HEPATITIS. Diffuse clironic interstitial hepatitis occurs not infrequently in persons who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. Such a hepatitis may assume the ordinary characters of nodular cirrho- sis of the liver, or it may assume a form which is peculiar and different from this. The difference consists merely in the dis- tribution of the new fibrous tissue. Instead of surrounding sin- gle acini, or small groups, the new connective tissue surrounds larger portions of the organ, and thus gives it a lobulated in- stead of a nodulated form. There is at the same time perilie- patitis, with thickening of the capsule ; and from the thicken- ed capsule dense fibrous septa extend into the liver. A lobe of the liver may be, in this way, divided up into two or more large subdivisions, or into a great number of small lobules. There are also, in some cases, gummy tumors formed in the fibrous septa. In other cases, the lobiilation is less marked, but we find smooth, hard masses of fibrous tissue replacing portions of the hepatic tissue. DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVER. THE FATTY LIVEK. In the human liver there is usually a certain amount of fat in the liver-cells, and this amount varies considerably under dif- ferent conditions, without constituting a pathological lesion. The amount of fat in the liver-cells, and the extent to which it is distributed, may, however, reach such an extent as to be entire- ly abnormal The fat is found in the hepatic cells, in the form of globules of different sizes. A single cell may contain several small fat globules, or may be so distended with fat that only a narrow rim of cell-tissue is left. The accumulation of fat usually be- gins in the periphery of each acinus, next to the branches of the portal vein. The gross appearance of the organ varies a good deal in different cases. It is usually increased in size, flattened,183 THE LIVER. and its edges are rounded; but the increase may also be in thick- ness, and the edges may remain sharp. In other cases, the liv- er is of normal size, and in others again is atrophied. The col- or is red, mottled with large patches of yellow on the surface ; in such cases, only the yellow portions of the liver are fatty. Or, the entire liver has a mottled red and yellow color, resem- bling the nutmeg-liver; this is produced by fatty degeneration of the cells at the periphery of each acinus, with some conges- tion of the veins at its centre. Or, the entire liver is of a pale yellow color, and contains very little blood. Or, there may be yellow or green staining with bile pigment. The consistence of the liver also varies. It may be very soft and greasy, or it may be firm, or even hard. This firmness may depend on a dififerent character of the fat, or on the coexistence of chronic interstitial hepatitis, or on waxy degeneration of some of the liver-cells. Of the causes of fatty liver we are, in a great measure, igno- rant. In persons affected with pulmonary phthisis, and in hab- itual drinkers, the lesion is so often met with that it may be considered as dependent upon those conditions; but it is also seen associated with many other diseases. Fatty liver may produce jaundice and symptoms of bile- THE WAXY LIVER. The liver is not infrequently the seat of an infiltration with a peculiar transparent, homogeneous, glistening substance. This substance, called amyloid, waxy, or lardaceous material, has the property of being stained of a deep-red color by a weak solution of iodine. It has been supposed to be analogous to cellulose; to be an albuminous substance; to be dealkalized fibrine, etc.; but as yet there is no exact knowledge of its real nature. In the liver, the waxy material affects, first, the walls of the branches of the hepatic artery ; then the liver-cells mid- way between the centres and peripheries of the acini; then the centres of the acini; and lastly, the whole of the acini. ThePOST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 184 walls of the venous capillaries may also be infiltrated. Accord- ing to Wagner, only the hepatic artery and the venous capil- laries become waxy, while the hepatic cells are only atrophied. Most observers, however, place the lesion in the hepatic cells. The gross appearance of a waxy liver varies according to the extent of liver-substance invaded, the way in which the waxy material is distributed, and the coexistence of fatty degenera- tion, and interstitial hepatitis. There may be only a few waxy cells scattered here and there in ditferent acini, and the rest of the liver tissue be normal. Then the liver will have its normal size and appearance. Or, if the degeneration aflfect the greater part of the liver, the organ will be much enlarged, of a peculiar reddish, translucent color, and of a firm, waxy consistence. Or, in rare cases, there are a few circumscribed nodules of waxy cells, while the rest of the organ is not waxy. Or, if there is at the same time fatty de- generation of the other hepatic cells, the consistence and color of the liver will be modified. Or, if there is interstitial hepa- titis, the liver will be nodulated or lobulated. "Waxy degenera- tion of the liver is frequently associated with the same degenera- tion of the spleen, kidneys, and intestines. It does not produce ascites, except in a few cases, which seem to depend rather on general hydraemia than on obstruction to the portal circulation. It may in exceptional cases cause jaundice. Waxy degeneration of the liver, as of other organs, is tlie result of chronic inflammation and suppuration, especially of the bones and lungs, and occurs in consequence of constitu- tional syphilis. It is also sometimes produced by long-con- tinued malarial poisoning. THE PIGMENT LIVER. .Malarial poisoning, whether it appears in the fovm of remit- tent or intermittent fever, produces in tlie blood a variable amount of pigment. This pigment, which is found most abun- dantly in the blood of the portal vein, is of black, brown, or reddish color. It is found in the form of small granules em-185 THE LIVER. bedded in transparent, finely granular cell-bodies of irregular shape, and in larger flakes of pigment alone. There are also colorless cells, like those holding pigment, which contain no pig- ment. The white globules of the blood are frequently also in- creased in number. These pigment bodies are found in the greatest number in the blood of the spleen and liver. These organs, therefore, assume a black or olive-brown color. The liver is usually of normal size, and the hepatic cells are normal; but it may be hypertrophied or atrophied, and the liver-cells may be fatty, or waxy, or cirrhosed. The pigment is found in the venous capillaries and in the branches of the hepatic artery. This pigmentation is most constantly found in the spleen, but in exceptional cases is found in the liver and not in the spleen. In marked cases, the brain, lungs, intestines, kidneys, and sub- cutaneous connective tissue are found of a brownish color, and their capillaries contain pigment. In the brain, the pigment masses may block up the small arteries and produce numerous punctate apoplexies. The black masses of sulphate of iron, produced by decomposition, can be distinguished by their blue color when treated with hydrochlo- ric acid and ferro-cyanide of potash. GEANULAK, OK PARENCHYMATOUS DEGENERATION. We find a peculiar change in the liver-cells as an accompani ment of several different pathological processes. The hepatic cells are at first filled with fine granides, soluble in alkalies, and apparently of albmninous nature. At a later stage, the cells are filled with coarser and glistening granules, soluble in alco- hol and sethor, and of fatty nature. These changes in the hepatic cells are found as a result of impeded circulation, of infectious diseases, and of poisons, or of general distm-bances of nutrition. Thrombosis of the portal vein, abscesses, and cirrhosis may produce granular degeneration of circumscribed portions of the hepatic tissue. Pyaemia, septicEemia, erysipelas, epidemic cerebro-spinalPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 186 meningitis, acute miliary tuberculosis, acute articular rheu- matism, tjplius and typhoid fever, yellow-fever, cholera, the acute exanthemata, are all frequently accompanied by this change in the liver. Poisoning by phosphorus, by arsenic, and by antimony pro- duces this lesion in a marked degree. It will be found de- scribed more particularly under the head of poisons. Chronic pulmonary diseases and anaemia, from any cause, may produce the same lesion in the liver. THE HEPATIC AKTEKY. The hepatic artery, in rare cases, is the seat of aneurismal dilatations, which may attain a large size. Such aneurisms may displace the liver, produce intense pain, compress the bile- ducts so as to cause jaimdice, and usually rupture into the ab- domen or stomach. The diagnosis of this lesion is not often made during life. Embolism is not very common. It produces infarctions and abscesses. THE PORTAL VEIN. Thrombosis of the portal vein is a lesion frequently met with. It is occasionally produced by inflammation of the vein, but more frequently the phlebitis is produced by the thrombus. Thrombi of the portal vein may be produced by : 1. Weakening of the circulation from general debility. 2. Diseases of the liver which destroy or compress branches of the portal vein. Cirrhosis, chronic atrophy, cancer of the liver, and dilatation of the bile-ducts are the most frequent causes. The thrombus usually occupies both the branches and trunk of the portal vein. It may lill the vessel either partly or com- pletely. It adheres firmly to the wall of the vein, is firm and hard, or may be organized, and is of a grayish, blackish, or jaun- diced color. Fresh red coagula may be attached as prolonga- tions to the firmer clots. The vein is usually dilated, its walls are thickened, and may be calcareous.187 THE LIVER. In cancer of the liver, the thrombus may be produced by the pressure on the vein, or the new growth may project into the vein, and form part of the thrombus. In very rare cases, the portal vein and its branches have been found tilled with a soft material composed of nucleated cells, while there was no new growth in the liver or other viscera. 3. Tumors, or new connective tissue, which compress the portal vein below the liver. Chronic peritonitis, tumors of the stomach, pancreas, and omentum, and tumors or enlargements of the adjoining lym- phatic glands, are the most frequent causes. 4. There may be no cause for the thrombus. This is espe- cially the case when isolated branches of the portal vein become filled and obliterated by a thrombus, and in consequence of this, the portions of the liver supplied by these venous branches become atrophied, and the liver assumes a peculiar lobulated shape. In all the conditions mentioned above, the tendency of the lesion is to the permanent occlusion of the branches of the por- tal vein which are filled with the thrombus. This obliterative form of thrombosis is usually attended by ascites, enlargement of the spleen, enlargement of the abdomi- nal veins, rarely by jaundice, sometimes by haemorrhage from the stomach and bowels. Thrombi in the portal vein, instead of becoming hard and closing the vessels, may become soft and broken down; while the wall of the vein becomes the seat of a suppurative inflam- mation. The thrombi are then of a reddish, grayish, or yellow color; a thin layer adheres to the wall of the vein; while the rest of the thrombus is partly solid, or converted into a puri- form fluid. Such thrombi, when they fill up the smaller veins, produce granular degeneration of the hepatic cells and abscesses. The causes of this form of thrombosis are various. (1.) Traumatic. Medical literature has so far only contained the single case, reported by Lambron, of thrombosis produced by a fish-bone. The bone was three centimetres long, was im- pacted in the head of the pancreas, penetrated the anterior wall of the superior mesenteric vein obliquely from above down-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 188 ward, and from before backward, traversed its interior, and was lodged in the posterior tliickened wall of the vessel. The me- senteric vein at this point was filled with a grayish thrombus, which was continued into the portal vein and its hepatic branches, and was partly firm and partly broken down. There Avas a spot on the posterior wall of the stomach, near the pylorus, which was considered to be the point of exit of the fish-bone. To this case I am able to add a second observed in Bellevue Hospital in 1867, reported by Dr. JancAvay, and examined also by myself. A man, aged forty-seven, about four weeks before his death was exposed to cold and wet. He was attacked with pain in the right side and cough, with the physical signs of pleurisy on the right side. A diarrhcEa set in; the man sank into a typhoid condition; the abdomen became tympanitic ; there was tenderness over the right iliac fossa; the urine con- tained albumen and granular casts. Autopsy.—The brain and heart were normal. The left lung was bound down by old adhesions ; in the right pleural cavity was a small amount of serum. The abdomen contained purulent serum, and the viscera were coated with recent fibrinous exudation. The stomach and in- testines were normal. The spleen weighed nine ounces. The kidneys weighed twelve ounces, and were the seat of advanced chronic diffuse nephritis. The liver weighed six and a half pounds. There were nume- rous small abscesses in the right lobe; two abscesses in the left lobe. The left division of the portal vein Avas filled with a firm red and white clot, over an inch long; the right division of the vein was lined with a firm thrombus ; its walls were thickened. In this part of the vein, and in its hepatic branches, was a good deal of puriform fluid. There was a fish-bone, two inches long, half in the mesen-- teric and half in the portal vein. The centre of this bone was covered by a thrombus. The specimen is preserved in the museum of Bellevue Hos- pital, In young infants, the ligation of the umbilical vein, instead189 THE LIVER. of producing a firm thrombus and obliterating tlie vessel, some- times produces a soft, puriform thrombus which extends into the portal vein. The walls of the vein are thick and succulent; there are frequently abscesses in the liver and general peritoni- tis. 2. (Ilceration of the intestines and stomach sometimes pro- duces thrombosis of the veins leading from the part inflamed, and the thrombi are continued into the portal vein, or fragments of them are carried into it. 3. Abscesses of the spleen sometimes produce thrombosis of the splenic vein, which is continued into the portal vein. 4. Suppurative inflammation of the mesentery, and of the mesenteric glands, may produce thrombosis of the mesenteric and portal veins. 5. Inflammation and ulceration of the bile-ducts caused by gall-stones occasionally produce thrombosis of the branches of the portal vein. 6. In inany cases of thrombosis and inflammation of the por- tal vein no cause can be discovered for the lesion. In all the varieties of soft thrombi and phlebitis of the portal vein, we usually find jaundice, sometimes abscesses of the liver, sometimes enlargement of the spleen, and, as a rule, acute symptoms during life. KUPTUEE OF THE POETAL VEIN. This is a very rare lesion, of Avhich only a few cases are re- corded. In some of the cases there was fatty degeneration of the wall of the vein. DILATATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. Dilatation may afiect the trunk, branches, or roots of the por- tal vein, but very rarely the entire vessel. It is caused by destruction of the capillaries of the liver from chronic atrophy and cirrhosis ; and from occlusion of the vein by thrombi, by cancer, and by concretions. The dilatation is generally uniform, sometimes vr.ricosG.190 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. CALCIFICATION OF THE POKTAL VEIN. Chronic endophlebitis may occur with the production of athe- romatous degeneration and calcification of the portal vein and its branches. It affects separate patches of the wall, or the en- tire wall for a considerable distance. This lesion of the vein may produce thrombosis. THE HEPATIC VEINS. The hepatic veins are found to present the same lesions as the portal veins, but much less frequentl}^ Dilatation of these veins is produced by any obstruction to the passage of the venous blood into the heart. Chronic phlebitis and hard thrombi are produced by perihe- patitis. The wall of the vein is thickened ; gelatinous deposits or valvular projections on the inner surface of the vein may narrow or obliterate it. There may be apoplexies in the tissue of the liver. Soft thrombi and suppurative inflammation of the branches of the hepatic vein are sometimes produced by abscesses in the liver. NEW GROWTHS OF THE LIVER. Fibroma.—A single case of a fibrous tumor is described by Luschka, as occurring in the liver of a young child. Chondroma in the liver is of rare occurrence. It is secondary to chondroma in other regions of the body. Angioma.—Small cavernous tumors are of frequent occur- rence in the liver. They form irregularl3'-shaped, sharply-de- fined, reddish black spots in the liver-tissue, from the size of an acinus up to that of a man's fist. They are composed of a mesh-work, formed of connective tissue and smooth muscle ; the cavities of this mesh-work are lined with epithelium, resembling that of the veins, contain venous blood, and can be injected from the portal vein and the hepatic artery. According to Vir- chow, the tumor is formed by the dilatation of all the veins of one or more liver acini. Rindfleisch, on the other hand, holds191 THE LIVER. that the growth is formed by an interlobular hyperplasia of con- nective tissue, followed by a cavernous metamorphosis. Leukcemic New Groioths are found in the liver in two forms. The organ is increased in size, sometimes very largely. The liver-cells are increased in size and number, so that the acini are larger. (1.) The lymphatic new growth takes the form of an infiltration, which accompanies the portal vein and its branches into the acini. The new growth then forms branched figures of a grayish white color, and of considerable size, or of a fine gray or white tracery, corresponding to different acini. (2.) In other cases, the new growth takes the form of small, rounded, miliary tumors, of a grayish white color. They resem- ble miliary tubercles, but are very soft, almost fluid. Not unfi'equently these two forms are combined in the same liver. The new growth in both cases has the structure of lym- phatic glandular tissue. Adenoma.—Under this name authors describe two distinct varieties of tumor. The first consists in a new growth of liver tissue, the second in a new growth of follicular glandular tissue. 1. The first form occurs as one large or several small tumors, scattered through the liver. The tumors are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, or are continuous with the liver tissue. They are of minute size, or may measure 3 or 4 inches in diameter. They are of a grayish brown color, and of firmer consistence than the surrounding liver tissue. They are composed of cells, resembling the hepatic cells, but sometimes larger, and some- times containing several nuclei. These cells are arranged in acini, like those of the liver, and the vessels and sometimes the bile-ducts of the liver ramify in the larger tumors. 2. The second form of adenoma is composed of follicles or tubules, filled with small polygonal epithelium. The tumors are usually multiple, small or large, inclosed in a fibrous capsule. They may undei'go fatty degeneration, or may suppurate. It is a question whether they are not really epithelial cancers. Tubercle.—In general tuberculosis, the liver is frequently the seat of numerous small, miliary, grayish, transparent granula- tions, which may be too small to be seen with the naked eye. These are found in the capsule and accompanying the vessels.192 POST-MORTEM EXAMIN"ATIONS. Occasionally, in children, sucli tubercular tumors become larger and clieesy; it is then difficult to distinguish them from syphi- litic tumors. Syphilitic Tumors are found in coimection with interstitial hepatitis or alone. If interstitial hepatitis is present, the gum- my tumors are found embedded in fibrous bands. They are small, or a number may be aggregated together, so as to form a tumor as large as a man's fist. They are of a grayish color, and are composed of round and fusiform connective tissue-cells. They usually, however, very soon undergo cheesy and fibrous degeneration, and are then of an opaque white or yellow color ; the cellular elements disappear, and we find nothing but a fibrous or cheesy mass. In other cases, the tumors soften and break down, so that they may resemble abscesses. Less frequently, there is no interstitial hepatitis, and we find a number of small, yellow, cheesy tumors, scattered through the liver. I have seen, in one case, large, white, gummy tumors without interstitial hepatitis, which, to the naked eye, resem- bled cancerous nodules. In infants, a very minute form of these tumors is found. They appear as numerous, very small, white dots on the siu-face of the organ. Cysts are usually produced by a dilatation of tlie bile-ducts. They are small, multiple, contain serum, mucus, and epithelium. New-formed cysts in the connective tissue are also described. Sarcoma of the liver is not common. It is almost always secondary. The most frequent forms are melanotic or spindle- celled sarcomata. Carcinoma.—The liver is the most frequent seat of secondary cancerous growths. Primary carcinoma of the liver is very rare. The primary tumor is often small, while the secondary growth in the liver is very large, so that the former may be overlooked. In some cases, the primary tumor is situated in the wall of the gall-bladder. All the varieties of cancer, simple, medullar}'", scirrhus, me- lanotic, colloid, flat and cylindrical epithelial, are found in the liver; but simple cancer, either hard or soft, is the most fre- quent. It occurs in the form of nodules, or of a uniform infil-THE LIVER. 193 tration of the liver tissue. The nodules are white or yellow, from fatty or cheesy degeneration, or red, from haemorrhages. They are single or multiple, large or small; they may project from the surface of the liver in the form of nodules, or be even with it, or depressed. They are often the seat of haemorrhages, which may burst through the peritoneum into the abdominal cavity. They are hard or soft, according to the relative propor- tion of fibrous tissue and cells. The cancerous nodules may un- dergo fatty or cheesy degeneration ; they may become inflamed and purulent; they may soften at the centre, so as to form cyst- like cavities filled with viscid or thin serum. When the new growth infiltrates the organ, it is usually firm, white, or pinkish, and may occupy a large portion of the liver. The liver itself may be of medium size, or may attain immense dimensions. The hepatic cells may remain unchanged, or may become fatty, or be stained with bile. The portal vein and its branches may become filled with thrombi, and with portions of the new growth. Either the growth in the liver erodes and projects into the vein, or the wall of the vein is unchanged, while its cavity is filled with the new growth; or, in rare cases, the veins alone contain the new growth. The hepatic veins and their branches usually remain exempt from this lesion. The lymphatic ducts on the surface of the liver may be dis- tended with cancerous growth, and the neighboring lymphatic glands are frequently enlarged and infiltrated. The bile-duets may remain unchanged, or become compressed and obliterated, or be dilated and rupture, or nodules of new growth may form in their walls. Alveolar or colloid cancer of the liver is rare. It usually ex- tends to the organ from some of the abdominal viscera. It has the appearance of a gelatinous, semi-translucent mass, replac- ing larger or smaller portions of the organ. Its minute struc- ture is a fibrous stroma, forming alveoli filled with gelatinous matter, and a variable number of cells. Lymphangioma Cavernosum.—Two cases of secondary tu- mors of this character have been observed in the liver. Tlie 13194 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. growths were composed of anastomosing canals, lined with epi- thelium, and containing peculiar hyaline bodies. The exact na- ture of these growths in the liver, as well as elsewhere, is still undetermined. PARASITES. Echinococcus.—This form of parasite occurs frequently, form- ing the so-called hydatids of the liver. It is one of the stages of development of a small tape-worm, the Taenia echinococcus, which inhabits the intestines of the dog. We find in the liver cavities lined with a layer of gelatinous material, to the inner wall of which are attached the heads of the echinococcus; or, the cavities are tilled with a multitude of little cysts, from the inner surface of which grow the heads. Or, the cysts may be sterile, and we find the gelatinous material without any of the heads. Or, the contents of the cyst degene- rate, and we find their contents mixed with fat, or pus, or bile, or blood, or their walls may be thickened with fibrous tissue, or be calcified. In New-York, the lesion is a rare one, and we usually find only one or two cysts with degenerated contents. In other countries, the lesion is much more common and for- midable. The cysts reach an enormous size, the veins of the liver may be compressed and filled with thrombi, the bile-ducts compressed and ulcerated. So much of the liver tissue may be replaced by the hydatids, that the patient may die from this cause aloue. Very frequently there is local peritonitis, and ad- hesions are formed between the liver and the surrounding parts. In some cases the cysts rupture, and their contents are emp- tied into the peritoneal cavity, the stomach, the intestines, the pleural cavity," or the lung tissue. Sometimes the cysts perfo- rate the bile-ducts, the vena cava, or some of the branches of the portal or hepatic veins. Sometimes the abdominal wall is perforated and a fistula formed between the cavity in the liver and the skin. A rare and peculiar development of the parasite was first de- .-scribed by Yirchow, under the name of Echinococciis multilocu-THE LIVER. 195 laris. The cysts are found in large numbers, and arranged, not within each other, but side by side, so that the mass has tlie appearance of an alveolar, gelatinous tumor. This mass is very hard. It is composed of dense fibrous tissue, forming small an- astomosing canals filled with gelatinous material. In this gela- tinous material the heads or booklets of the echinococcus may be present or absent. On the surface of the liver the lymphatics are sometimes enlarged and filled with the same material. Distoma hepatictim..—This parasite has a flat, oval, leaf-shaped body, 3 cent, long, 12 mm. wide, and is of a dirty brown color. It is very seldom seen, and has no clinical history. Distoma lanceolatum.—This worm has a thin body, about 9 mm. long. It is found in the gall-bladder and bile-ducts. It is of very rare occurrence. Pentastoma denticulatum is the undeveloped form of the pentastoma tsenioides, a parasite which inhabits the nasal cavi- ty of dogs and of some otlier animals. In the liver of man and of the herbivorous animals, it is found in the form of small, rounded calcified cysts. The cysts contain fat, calcareous mat- ter, and the remains of the dead parasite. The Ascaris lumbrieoides sometimes finds its way from the intestines into the bile-ducts. It may cause complete occlusion of the biliary passages, or dilatation, or ulceration, or the for- mation of abscesses in the liver. THE BILIARY PASSAGES. Catarrhal Inflammation most frequently attacks the lower portion of the common duct and the gall-bladder. In the acute form, it leaves but few changes after death. An abnormal coating of mucus is almost the only post-mortem lesion. If the inflammation, however, becomes chronic, the wall of the bile- duct is thickened and its cavity obstructed. In consequence of this, dilatation and ulceration of the bile-ducts may ensue. The gall-bladder may be inflamed by itself or in connection with the biliary passages. If the disease is chronic, the wall of the gall-bladder is thickened, its duct may be closed, dilatation, ulceration, the production of gall-stones, calcification, and atro- phy may ensue.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 196 Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum, hypersemia, and inflammation of the liver, concretions, and parasites, are the usual causes of catarrhal inflammation of the biliary passages. Sujppurative and Croupous Inflammation may attack the biliary passages and produce infiltration of pus in their walls, and purulent fluid in their cavities ; or flakes and tubular casts of fibrine on their Avails; or infiltration of their walls with fibrine, and diphtheritic ulceration. These lesions are most frequently observed in tj'phoid and typhus fever, pyaemia, cholera, and with obstructions in the bile-ducts. They also occur under unknown conditions. These forms of inflammation may produce perforations of the ducts or bladder, with escape of bile, and peritonitis ; or fistu- lous openings between the gall-bladder and the duodenum, colon, and stomach, or through the abdominal wall. Or the inflammation may extend to the liver tissue and produce ab- scesses. Or the portal vein may be inflamed, and even perfora- tions be formed between it and the bile-ducts. Constrictions of the biliary passages may also be produced by the same causes. Constriction and Occlusion are produced by inflammation of the ducts themselves, by new growths in their walls, by con- cretions or parasites in their cavities, by changes in the hepatic tissue, by aneurisms. The obliteration of the smaller bile-ducts produces no marked lesions. When the ductus communis, or the hepatic duct, is obstructed, the ducts throughout the liver are frequently di- lated and the liver tissue bile-stained. "When the cystic duct is obstructed, the gall-bladder is dilated. Dilatation of the bile-ducts is usually produced by strictures in the ways just mentioned, or by calculi. AVhen calculi have produced the dilatation, this condition may sometimes continue after they have found their way into the intestines. Some- times, however, we meet with very marked dilatation of the bile-ducts without being able to make out any present or past obstruction. The dilatation may afiect only the common and hepatic ducts, or it may extend to the smaller ducts in the liver, which are then dilated xmiformly or sacculated. They197 THE LIVEE. may contain bile, mucus, or calculi. The liver is at first en- larged, but may afterward atrophy. The gall-bladder may be dilated in consequence of obstruc- tion of the common or the cystic ducts. In the latter case, it may reach an immense size, and form a large tumor in the ab- dominal cavity. The dilatation is generally uniform, the blad- der retaining its normal form; sometimes, however, there are diverticula, which are usually produced by calculi. If the obstruction to the hepatic duct is incomplete or mov- able, the gall-bladder contains bile, and often calculi. If the obstruction is complete, the contained fluid gradually loses its biliary character, and becomes a serous or mucous fluid of a light yellow color. The walls of the bladder may be of normal thickness, or thinned, or thickened, or calcified. If the obstruction is due to a calculus, this may pass into the intestine and the gall-bladder be suddenly emptied. Usually, the bladder fills again, owing to its loss of contractile power. NEW GROWTHS. Fibroma has been observed in rare cases in the gall-bladder and in the common duct. Carcinoma occurs both as a secondary and a primary growth. It is more frequent in the gall-bladder than in the bile-ducts. Simple cancer, villous, cylindrical, epithelial, and colloid cancer have all been observed in this situation. BILIAKY CALCULI. These bodies are of common occurrence. They are found usually in the bladder; sometimes in the hepatic, cystic, and common ducts ; least frequently in the small ducts in the liver. In the gall-bladder from one to 7800 calculi have been counted. They are composed : 1. Principally of cholesterine. They are round, oval, or faceted, single or multiple, of a pure white color, or tinged in various shades by bile-pigment.198 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 2. Of cholesterine, bile-pigment, and sometimes carbonate and pliospliate of lime. They are usually dark-colored, brown, red, black, or green, round or faceted. 3. Principally of bile-pigment. These are small, not nume- rous, dark-colored. 4. Of carbonate of lime. These are uncommon, have a nodular surface, and a clear, crystalline fracture. Most calculi consist of a nucleus and body. The nucleus is composed of cholesterine and bile-pigment; or, more rarely, of some foreign body. A dead parasite, a needle, and stones of fruit have been found as nuclei. The body of the gall-stone is homogeneous or laminated. Biliary calculi in the gall-bladder usually produce no symp- toms, and are only discovered after the death of the patient. In the hepatic and common ducts they may obstruct the flow of bile and produce fatal jaundice, or they pass from time to time into the intestine, and produce biliary colic. If they are impacted in the cystic duct, they may produce dilatation of the gall-bladder. THE SPLEEN. MALFORltATIONS. The spleen may be entirely absent in acephalous monsters, and with defective development of the other abdominal viscera. Yery rarely it is absent in persons who are otherwise perfectly developed. Small accessory spleens, not larger than a walnut, and situat- ed close to the spleen, are not iinfrequent. The existence of two spleens of equal size has been observed in one case. The spleen may be on the right side when there is transposi- tion of the other viscera. IIYPERTKOPIIY, ATROPHY. In cases of typhoid fever, pyoemia, cholera, the exanthemata, malarial fevers, etc., the spleen is usually enlarged, soft, and ofTHE SPLEEN. 199 a dark-red color. The exact nature of this enlargement is not known. If the patient recovers, the organ returns to its normal size. A more chronic and persistent enlargement of the spleen is found with intermittent fever, heart-disease, leucaemia, with chronic diseases, and without known cause. The spleen is then t, simply increased in size, without other change from its normal appearance; or the fibrous stroma is disproportionately in- creased ; or there is an unusual hypersemia. Atrophy of the spleen occurs as a senile change. "We also freqiiently find it at the autopsy, without any cause to account for it. CHANGES IN POSITION. The spleen may be pressed downward by any increase in the contents of the thorax. It may be fastened by adhesions to the concave surface of the diaphragm, so that its long axis is nearly horizontal, instead of vertical. It may be displaced by changes in the contents of the abdominal cavity. If the organ is in- creased in size, it frequently becomes tilted, so that its lower border reaches the right iliac region. If the ligaments of the spleen are too long congenitally, or if they are lengthened by traction, and if the organ is at the same time increased in weight, it may become very movable. It sinks downward, with its hilus turned upward ; or it may be rotated on its axis. It may, after a time, cause atrophy; or it may compress the duodenum. EUPTUEE. The spleen may be ruptured by severe blows or falls. Fatal haemorrhage usually ensues, but sometimes the patient recovers. Rupture has also been observed in a few cases of typhoid fe- A'er, remittent and relapsing fever, and of cholera. INFLAMMATION. It is a very frequent occurrence to find the capsule of the spleen thickened and adherent to the neighboring viscera. For the most part, the cause of these changes cannot be ascertained.200 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Inflammation of tlie spleen itself occurs in the form of ab- scesses or infarctions. The abscesses may be traumatic, or pro- duced by infarctions, or occur without known cause. The ab- scesses are single or multiple. They may reach a great size; they may rupture into the abdominal cavity, the pleura, the lungs, the stomach, the colon, or the kidneys. Infarctions of the spleen are very common. Vegetations on the heart-valves, and thrombi in some of the veins, are the usual causes. Sometimes no source for the embolus can be discovered. We find one or more wedge-shaped portions of the spleen, at its surface, at first infiltrated with blood, and afterward convert- ed into a yellow, cheesy mass, or into a fibrous cicatrix. Less frequently suppurative infiammation ensues, and an abscess is formed. In other cases, again, the infarction becomes gangre- nous, and rarely the gangrene may involve the greater part of the spleen. In consequence of the gangrene, fatal peritonitis may ensue. DEGENERATION. Waxy degeneration, or rather infiltration of the spleen, is very common. It affects the entire organ, or only the Malpi- ghian bodies. In the first case, the organ is large, firm, smooth, reddish, and waxy-looking. Nearly the entire tissue is infil- trated with the waxy substance, and reacts with iodine. If only the Malpighian bodies are affected, the spleen appears to be studded with small, round, grayish bodies looking like grains of boiled sago. We then find the vessels and cells of the Mal- pighian bodies infiltrated with the waxy matter. This form is called the sago spleen. NEW GRO"\VTnS. Fibroma.—Small, rounded nodules of fibrous tissue have been seen in the spleen in a few cases. Cysts are rare. They are single or multiple, and contain serum. Single dermoid cysts, filled with fat and hair, have also been seen.201 THE PANCREAS. Tubercles are found in the capsule and in the splenic tissue in the form of gray granulations. Syphilitic Gummata have been seen in the spleen. Lymphatic Tumors in the form of white nodules are found in leucaemia and in pseudo-leucaemia. Pigment.—In persons who are the subjects of malarial poi- soning, the spleen is usually enlarged, and of a black color. The position and source of the pigment, which causes this color, is still uncertain. Carcinoma is very rarely primary in the spleen. More fre- quently it is metastatic; sometimes directly infiltrated from new growths in the stomach. PARASITES. Echinococci are sometimes found in the spleen, either as iso- lated bodies or as composite cysts. Pentastomum denticulatum in a calcified condition has been seen by Wagner. THE PANCREAS. MALFORMATIONS. The pancreas may be entirely absent in anencephalous and double monsters, and in congenital umbilical hernise. The pancreatic duct may be double; it may open into the duode- num at some distance from the biliary duct, or into the sto- mach. The head of the pancreas may be unduly developed, and sometimes even completely separated from the rest of the organ, opening into the duodenum with a duct of its own. CHANGES IN FOKM AND POSITION. The pancreas is so firmly bound down that its position is not often changed. Sometimes, however, it is found pressed down- ward by tight lacing, displaced by aneurisms, or contained in umbilical and diaphragmatic hernia. Atrophy of the pancreas is produced by the pressure of202 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIOITS. tumors, aneurisms, etc.; by obstruction of its duct; and is also found as an idiopathic process. The atrophy may reach such a degree that tlie gland can no longer be distinguished with the naked eye. This extreme degree of atrophy is sometimes found in diabetes. A moderate degree of atrophy seems to be a regular senile change. INFLAMMATION. Suppurative Inflammation of the pancreas is very rare. The organ is found infiltrated with pus, or contains abscesses, or is surrounded by pus. The collections of pus thus formed may spread into the neighboring soft parts, and perforate into the abdominal cavity, the stomach, or the intestines. Some of the cases described as abscesses seem to be cysts with purulent contents. The recorded cases of suppurative inflam- mation of the pancreas are so few that hardly any thing is known of its cause. Chronic Interstitial Inflammation of the pancreas results in the production of new fibrous tissue, with induration and sub- sequent atrophy of the organ. Tlie contraction of the new fibrous tissue may obliterate the pancreatic duets, and may also compress the ductus communis choledochus, so as to produce icterus and even dilatation of the bile-ducts. DEGENEKATION. Wojxy Degeneration affects, in rare cases, tlie blood-vessels of the pancreas ; tlie gland-cells are not involved. NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma of the pancreas is not common. It occurs both as a primary and secondary growth. As a primary growth, it usually takes the form of hard, fibrous nodules scattered through the glands, or of a uniform, scirrhous enlargement; more rarely, colloid cancer and cylindrical-celled epithelial cancer have been observed. The new growth is con-THE PANCREAS. 203 fined to the pancreas, or may spread to the duodenum, the stomach, or the neighboring lymphatic glands. As a secondary growth, carcinoma usually invades tne pan- creas by continuous infection from the duodenum, stomach, or lymphatic glands. THE PANCKEATIC DUCTS. Concretions of carbonate and phosphate of lime are frequently found in the pancreatic ducts. They are usually multiple, small, whitish, of rough and irregular shape. Sometimes, how- ever, they reach a diameter of more than an inch. Besides these free concretions, the walls of the ducts are sometimes incrusted with salts of lime. Such concretions may produce dilatation of the pancreatic ducts and large cysts, or, more rarely, abscesses. Foreign Bodies.—Gall-stones sometimes find their way into the pancreatic duct. Ascarides have been found in the ducts in a considerable number of cases. Dilatation of the pancreatic ducts, and the formation of cysts, take place in several diiFerent ways. (1.) The entire duct may undergo a uniform, cylindrical di- latation. "With this cylindrical dilatation we sometimes find associated small sacculi. (2.) There may be sacculated dilatations at some point in the ducts. These dilatations form cysts of large size, as large even as a child's head. Their walls frequently become atheromatous and calcified. These cysts often become filled with blood, and may then be mistaken for aneurisms. (3.) The small branches of the pancreatic duct may be di- lated so as to form a number of small cysts. These cysts are filled with serum, mucus, pus, or a thick cheesy material. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. MALFORMATIONS. In anencephalous and other monsters the capsules may be entirely absent or much atrophied. Sometimes, in well-formed adults, the organs cannot be discovered.204 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. There may be little rounded nodules loosely attached to tlie surface of tlie capsules and with the same structure as these. If one of the kidneys is absent, or in an abnormal position, its capsule usually retains its proper position. II^MOKKIIAGE. In children, soon after birth, it is not very infrequent to find large haemorrhages in one of the capsules, converting it into a cyst filled with blood. The same lesion has been observed in a few cases in adults. THROMBOSIS. Klebs describes a case of capillary thrombosis of the cortex in both capsules in a woman after excision of the knee-joint. INFLAMMATION. The most frequent lesion of the capsules is their transforma- tion into fibrous tissue and cheesy matter. The capsules are then large, their surface smooth or lobulated, or they are con- tracted and irregular. The normal structure of the gland is lost, and we find instead a mass of fibrous tissue in which are embedded cheesy nodules. The cheesy nodules may soften and become fluid, or may calcify. Either one or both capsules may be involved. The early stages of this lesion are obscure, and it is difficult to know how far chronic inflammation, and how fiir tuberculosis is the efficient cause. Sometimes the medullary portion is replaced by a homogene- ous, grayish, structureless substance, which later becomes cheesy. Sometimes there are grayish nodules in the medullary sub- stance, which become cheesy and may fuse together. Sometimes there is a true suppurative inflammation with the formation of abscesses. Our knowledge of all these conditions is very imperfect. DEGENERATION. Fatty Degeneration of the cortical portion of the capsules is the rule in the adult. In children under five years of age, it is a pathological condition.205 THE SUPEARENAL CAPSULES. Amyloid Degeneration may involve both the cortical and medullary portions. In tlie cortex, it nsnally involves only the walls of the blood-vessels ; in the medulla, both the blood-vessels and the cells of the parenchyma may undergo this degeneration. The capsules are usually firm and of a grayish, semi-translucent color. NEW GROWTHS. Carcinoma of the suprarenal capsules is not common. It may be primary, but is much more frequently secondary. Either one or both of the capsules may be the seat of the new growth. Sarcoma occurs as a primary and secondary growth. Pro- bably many of the older cases described as cancers were really sarcomata. Miliary Tubercles occur but rarely. Cylindroma.—Klebs describes a growth of this character in one of the capsules, secondary to a tumor of the same kind in the supraorbital region. He gives to such tumors the name of lymphangioma cavernosum. The exact character of these growths is still obscure. They consist of irregular follicles and cavities, lined with epithelium, and containing peculiar hya- line, structureless bodies. Cysts are found both single and multiple. They are usually situated in the cortex.THE TJEINAEY APPAEATUS. THE KIDNEYS. MALFORMATIONS. Entire absence of both kidneys is seen witli higli degrees of malformation of the entire body. Such foetuses are not viable. Absence of one kidney is found occasionally in adults, and seems to have no effect on their general health. The left kid- ney is inore frequently absent than the right. The ureter be- longing to the absent kidney is usually entirely wanting ; biit a small portion of it may be found attached to the bladder. The single kidney which is present is hypertrophied. Its ureter usually opens into the bladder in its proper situation, although Forster describes a case in which the kidney was on the right side, while its ureter entered the bladder on the left side. I have seen a case in which the single kidney was situated over the promontory of the sacrum. Its artery was given off from the aorta at the bifurcation of the iliac arteries, and its vein from the vena cava, near the bifurcation. Its ureter was large and short; it entered the bladder midway between the usual po- sition of the two ureters. It is not uncommon to find one kidney so much atrophied that hardly any remains of kidney tissue are to be found ; noth- ing but fibrous tissue and fat. In these cases, however, some traces of a ureter will be found. The fuetal lobulated condition of the kidney often persists in adult life. Sometimes one or more of these lobules become ex- cessively developed, and somewhat separated from the rest of the kidney, so that the organ may appear double. A single207 THE KIDNEYS. case is recorded by Blasius in wliicli there were two left kid- neys, each with its vessels and iireter. The kidneys, are sometimes joined together. This is effected by a bridge of kidney tissue, uniting the lower ends of the two kidneys. Sometimes sucli a " horse-shoe" kidney is situated lower than usual over tlie lowest lumbar vertebra, or in the pel- vis. The renal vessels are then given off from some abnormal point. In other cases the two kidneys are united throughout, so as to look like a single misshapen kidney, with two or more pel- ves. The kidneys thus closely united may be both situated on one side of the vertebral column, or in the pelvis. The arrange- ment and origin of their vessels vary according to the situa- tion of the kidnej'S. CHANGES IN POSITION. The kidneys may have an abnormal situation, in which they are either fixed or movable. The change in position is either lateral or downward. The most frequent situation is the promontory of the sacrum ; but the kidney has been seen at the very bottom of the pelvic cavi- ty. The vessels have an irregular origin and distribution cor- responding to the changed position of the kidney. The kidney is firmly attached in its unusual position. Movable or wandering kidneys are not congenital, but are found in adult life as a result of tight-lacing, pregnancy, over- exertion, and from unknown causes. They are more frequent in females than in males. The right kidney is the one more frequently movable ; but both organs may be found in this con- dition. Sometimes a kidney, which is congenitally misplaced, is also movable. The ordinary movable kidneys have their vessels regularly given off, but lengthened. The kidney tissue may be normal or may undergo any of the ordinary pathological changes. Cases have been observed in which the kidney, by its unusual position, had compressed the ascending colon, and had caused thrombosis of the vena cava.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 208 H^MORKHAGE. Haemorrliages are produced in the kidney by wounds, and by severe contusions and falls, causing rupture of the kidney tissue. The blood collects in the kidney, beneath its capsule, or in the surrounding connective tissue. Rokitansky describes a form of luemorrliage produced by ex- cessive congestion. The kidney tissue is torn by the diffused blood. Smaller hsemorrhages are found with infarctions, purpura, and nephritis. CHRONIC CONGESTION OF THE KIDNEY. Any disease of the heart or lungs, or any mechanical cause in the thorax or abdomen, which obstructs the passage of venous blood into the right auricle, and of the arterial blood from the left ventricle, is liable to produce a condition of chronic conges- tion of the kidneys. "Valvular diseases of the heart are the most common of these causes. The pregnant uterus, by its mechani- cal pressure on the veins, produces the same effect. The clinical symptoms are a decrease in the quantity of the urine, with an increase of its specific gravity, together with a variable amount of albumen, hyaline casts, and sometimes blood in the urine. The appearance of the kidneys is very characteristic. They are of normal size, or a little larger; rarely they are atrophied. The entire organ has a stony hardness. The cortical portion is of normal size or thickened, rarely thinned. It is markedly con- gested, either in the regular red streaks which normally mark the cortex, or, in extreme congestion, the entire cortex is dark red. The pyramids are congested, and of a dark-red color. The Malpighian bodies are usually unchanged, but filled with blood. The epithelium of the convoluted tubes is unchanged, except that it has a peculiar, stiff appearance. The veins are sometimes dilated. This condition of chronic congestion may pass into chronic diffuse ne^^hritis, and the appearance of the kidney will under- go con-esponding changes.209 THE KIDNEYS, INFLAMMATION. Acute diffuse Nephritis. Tills condition of the kidneys is found with scarhatina, and as an acute disease after exposure to cold. It is usually de- scribed as the first stage of chronic diffuse nephritis or Briglit's Disease ; in my opinion, improperly. It has been described by different authors under the names of interstitial nephritis, acute desquamative nephritis, acute Bright's Disease, croupous nephri- tis, etc. The clinical history of most of these cases is: Pain in the back, fever, oedema of the face and legs ; the urine scanty, high- colored, containing blood, albumen, renal epithelium ; hya- line, granular, blood, and epithelial casts. The patient may die in a short time, but much more frequently entirely recovers. It is only exceptionally that this condition is succeeded by chronic nephritis. The kidneys are swollen ; the capsule is not adherent; their texture is somewhat succulent. The entire or- gan is red and congested; or the cortex is white or gray, mot- tled with red spots; the pyramids are red. The tubes of the cortex and pyramids are more or less distended, with detached swollen or granular epithelium, with hyaline cast matter, and sometimes with blood. The Malpighian bodies are sometimes filled with extravasated blood. The intertubular connective tissue is infiltrated with a variable amount of serum and lym- phoid cells. Glomeriolo-Nephritis.—Under this name, Klebs describes a modification of the condition just described. It is found with scarlatina. The Malpighian bodies appear large and white. Their capsules are filled with small cells, which compress the capillary tufts. Chronic diffuse Nephritis. This disease is also known under the names of parenchyma- tous nephritis, Bright's Disease, granular kidney, fatty kidney, etc. It is the ordinary form of chronic renal disease, with which 14210 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. all practitioners are familiar; attended during life with albu- men and casts in the urine, with changes in the quantity and composition of the urine, with oedema of the face and legs, with various other symptoms, and ending, sooner or later, in the death of the patient. The disease begins, for the most part, very slowly and insi- diously. Very often it is impossible to fix the precise date of its commencement. It has no acute stao;e, but beo-ins as a chro- nic change. Less frequently, it succeeds acute diffuse nephritis and chronic congestion of the kidney. The gross changes in the kidneys affected by this disease are widely different; the minute changes are much more constant. The kidneys are of normal size, are enlarged, or are atrophied. The kidneys, which are of normal size, are but little changed in appearance, except that the cortical markings are irregular, and the capsule is adherent; or the surface is slightly nodular ; or the cortex is white, or grayish, or mottled white, gray, yellow, and red, and the organ looks as if it were atrophied from a pre- vious condition of enlargement. The large kidneys present their cortices of a Avhite, gray, yellow, or mottled color. Their siirfaces are nodular; their capsules adherent. The cortices are thickened ; the pyramids are enlarged, red, and at their bases radiate in red and white streaks. The atrophied kidneys exhibit all degrees of smallness. Both the cortex and pyramids are diminished in size. Their surfaces are nodular, and their capsules adherent. The fat aboi;t the pelvis is sometimes increased, so that the kidneys seem to be atrophied from within. The cortex is red, white, gray, or yel- low, in a great variety of combinations and shades. The tex- ture of the organ is firm. There may be cysts of various sizes throughout the kidney. The minute changes in chronic diffuse nephritis arc present in variable relative proportion, and in variable degrees of devel- opment. The tubes are usually, but not always, dilated both in the cortex and pyramids. The dilatation may be slight, or so great as to form cysts visible with the naked eye. In the atro-THE KIDNEYS. 211 pined kidneys, there may be regions where the tubes are collapsed and atrophied. The basement membrane of the tubes may be thickened. The epithelium of the tubes may be slightly swollen and granular; or very granular, broken down, and detached ; or filled with oil globules; or, in the dilated tubes, flattened against the basement membrane. Hyaline cast material, white, yellow, or mixed with broken epithelium, is usually present in the tubes, especially near the apices of the pyramids. The arteries have their walls thickened, their cavities nar- rowed. It is usually impossible to inject them completely. Their Avails may be the seat of waxy degeneration. The veins can usually be completely injected from the renal vein. The ca- pillary venous plexus of the cortex may be dilated. The Malpighian bodies are imchanged ; or they are atrophied, and their capsules thickened; or the tufts are shrunken and impervious; or they are the seat of waxy degeneration. There are usually changes in the intertubular tissue, espe- cially in that of the cortex. We find just beneath the capsule, around the Malpighian bodies, and in other positions, irregular patches of connective tissue-fibres, and small round and oval cells. In the smallest and hardest kidneys, the cells may be as abundant in proportion to the fibrous tissue as in kidneys ap- parently in the early stages of the disease. In the atrophied kidneys of gouty persons, we often find white lines and dots of urate of soda in the j^yramids. Pyelo-nej)hritis. This form of kidney-disease runs an acute course, sometimes of only a few days, and is very fatal. The lesion of the kid- neys alone is sufiicient to destroy life. The causation of this form of nephritis is peculiar, and hard to understand. It is secondary to inflammation of the pelvis, ure- ters, and bladder. But the inflammation may be confined to the bladder, and skip the ureters and pelvis, so that the infec-, tion appears metastatic rather than continuous. Some authorsPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 212 explain this by the presence of fungi, bacteria, wliich find their way lip the ureters, and into the kidney-tissue. The lesions of the kidney are marked. The organ is some- what swollen. On its surface, in the cortex, and in the pyra- mids, we find small white spots, surrounded by red zones of con- gestion. These spots may be from the size of a pin's head to that of a third of the kidney. They may be firm, or soft and purulent. The larger spots are usually purulent. The entire kidney may thus l)e converted into a bag of pus and broken- down tissue. The minute change consists in an accumulation of lymphoid cells in the intertubular tissue, with degenerative changes in the tubes. PerinejpTiritis. As a very rare occurrence, we sometimes find small collec- tions of pus between the capsule and the kidney, apparently produced by infiammation of the capsule. More frequently we find the products of inflammation out- side the capsule. There may be, as the result of perinephritis, a mass of dense fibrous tissue surrounding the organ ; or, more frequently, a collection of pus. These abscesses may open in- to the peritoneal cavity, into the intestine, or burrow in the muscles of the back, and open externally. Perinephritis may be produced by blows on the lumbar re- gion ; by pyelitis and pyelo-nepliritis ; by abscesses in the psoas muscles; by abscesses in the pelvic cavity, and occi;r as an idiopathic inflammatioii after exposure to cold, and with typhus and other severe diseases. DEGENERATIONS. Chronic Parenchymatous Degeneration. This disease is also known imder the names of catarrhal ne- phritis, parenchymatous inflammation, granular degeneration, fatty degeneration. It is found, not as a primary disease, but as a result of pro-213 THE KIDJTEYS. found clianges in tlie nutrition of tlie body. Typhus fever, cholera, yellow fever, phthisis, chronic alcoholism, the acute exanthemata, phosphorus poisoning, and causes of like cha- racter, are the conditions vpith which this lesion is usually found. The urine contains albumen and granular casts. If the patient recovers from the acute disease, the kidney symp- toms also disappear. The gross appearances of the kidney vary with the degree of degeneration which has taken place. The kidney may be of normal size and appearance, the corti- cal markings regiilar. Or, it may be somewhat enlarged, the cortex opaque and white. Or, less frequently, the organ is congested. As a rule the capsule is not adherent, and the sur- face of the kidney is smooth. The minute changes consist in an alteration of the epithelium in the tubes of the cortex, of the pyramids, or of both. In the lesser degrees of the lesion we find the epithelium swollen so as to fill the tubes, and at the same time more distinct and sharp- ly outlined. In some of the tubes the epithelium is more gran- ular, broken-down, and detached from the wall of the tube. In other cases, the epithelium is more markedly granular, even fatty, and fills many of the tubes. There maybe hyaline cast matter in the tubes of the pyramids. There are no changes in the intertubular tissue. THE WAXY KIDNEY. It has already been mentioned that, in chronic diff'use nephri- tis, the Malpighian tufts may be waxy. This change may also involve the small arteries, the veins in the pyramids, and even the basement membranes of the tubes. We find various views, among different authors, as to the re- lationship between the waxy change in the vessels and the other changes in the kidney. Some hold that the condition is only an accidental complication of diff'use nephritis ; others that the waxy degeneration is the first and essential part of the process, and that the other kidney lesions are secondary to it. I have never seen waxy degeneration of the tufts and vessels except in the advanced stages of chronic diff'use nephritis.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 214 Fehr gives the following figures as representing the causa- tion of the disease: Syphilis, 34 ; pulmonary phthisis, 32 ; with caries, 5; with other complications, 6; caries, with scro- fula, 26 ; empyema, 4 ; chronic bronchitis, 3 ; chronic alco- holism, 5; chronic articular rheumatism, 3 ; cancer, 3 ; intermit- tent fever, 4 ; hydronephrosis, 3 ; ulcers of the leg, 3 ; witliout known cause, 9. INFARCTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. Infarctions of the kidney are produced by the presence of an embolus in an artery or capillary vessel. If the embolus is in an artery, the size of the inforction will Correspond to the size of the vessel. As soon as the artery is plugged by the embolus, its branches are emptied or filled with thrombi. The wedge-shaped portion of kidney tissue, which is deprived of its supply of arterial blood, becomes of a deep yel- low color, and is a little swollen, while the epithelium in its tubes degenerates. Afterward, the epithelium becomes more granular and disappears; the tubes become collapsed and shrunken. At the periphery of the infarction there is a zone of congestion, and of accumulation of lymphoid elements in the intertubular tissue. After this, the infarction may continue to shrink, and the zone of congestion around it helps in the forma- tion of a fibrous cicatrix; or the production of lymphoid ele- ments may be so great as to form an abscess ; or the infarction becomes necrotic and gangrenous. Capillary emboli produce a number of small infarctions. The kidneys are swollen, soft, mottled with numerous small, red spots, each with a white or yellow centre. At the centre of these hsemorrhagic spots there can generally be found a small vessel plugged with a thrombus. Around this the tubal epi- thelium is degenerated, and the intertubular tissue infiltrated with lymj:)hoid cells. These latter cells may be so numerous as to form small abscesses. The whole appearance may resemble very closely that of pye- lo-nephritis. Colmheim has rejiorted a case of complete embolism of the215 THE KIDNEYS. renal artery, witli necrosis of tlie entire kidney. It occurred in a boy eiglit years old, who was recovering from membranous croup of the larynx and trachea. The left ventricle of the heart contained a firm, white, laminated thrombus. The spleen con- tained a large, recent infarction. There were emboli in the left hypogastric artery, and in the right common iliac. The left re- nal artery and its branches were completely filled with a firm thrombus. The left kidney was somewhat increased in size. Its surface was smooth, mottled red and yellow. The cortex was dry, opaqiae, and looked like dead tissue. The pyramids were bluish red. Here and there in the cortex and pyramids were d eep red spots. Thrombosis of the renal vein occurs in consequence of changes in the kidney; from tumors obstructing the circula- tion ; as a continuation of thrombi of the vena cava; and as a primary lesion dependent i;pon the general condition of the patient. Children, who are exhausted by diarrhoeas, etc., are perhaps the most frequent subjects of this lesion. The throm- bus may completely or only partially fill the renal vein- and its branches. H YDRO-NEPHEOSIS. Dilatation of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys is not uncommon. It is found at all ages, even before birth. It is produced by some mechanical obstruction to the outflow of urine. The obstruction may affect the pelvis, the ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. Calculi in the pelvis, or ureter; strictures of the ureters ; new growths compressing the ureters, especially cancer of the uterus; changes in the bladder ; stric- tures of the urethra are the ordinary causes. The dilatation usually affects the ureter and pelvis—some- times the pelvis alone, sometimes a single calyx. The pelvis and calyces are enlarged, the papillae are flattened or converted into cavities until there is left a large multilocular cyst, of which the walls are formed of a thin layer of kidney tissue. The kidney substance which is left, although thinned, is not necessarily diseased. The epithelium may be entirely normal. In other cases, the epithelium may imdergo granular degenera-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 216 tion, or there may be clironic diffuse nephritis, or suppurative pyelo-nephritis. THE CYSTIC KIDNEY. We find cysts in the kidney in intra-nterine life, and at all ages. The congenital cystic kidney is a very striking pathological condition. The kidneys are converted into a mass of number- less cysts, so large as to nearly fill the abdominal cavity, and often to seriously hinder the birth of the child. The cysts are of all sizes, separated by fibrous septa, or by compressed kidney tissue. They contain a clear, yellow, acid fluid holding in solution the urinary salts. In other cases, the fluid is turbid and brown, and contains blood, uric acid crystals, or cholesterine. The cysts are lined with a simple layer of flat, polygonal epithelium. The cysts are formed by a dilata- tion of the kidney tubules, and of the capsules of the Mal- pighian tufts. The dilatation may be produced by a change in the papillfB, obliterating the tubes there ; or by stenosis of the pelvis, ureters, bladder, or ui'ethra. This condition is usually associated with other malformations, hydrocephalus, club- foot, etc. In extra-uterine life, we find cysts in kidneys which are otherwise normal, and in those Avhich are the seat of chronic diff'use nephritis. In the normal kidney we find one or a few cysts, from the size of a pin's head to that of a pigeon's egg. They are situated in the cortex, and may project outward. They contain clear serum, or a viscid, colloid substance, or cholesterine. The walls of the cysts are smooth, or incomplete septa project in- ward. There is no exact knowledge of the way in which these cysts are formed, although it is probable that they are produced by the dilatation of the kidney tubules. They do not give rise to any changes in the kidney tissue, nor to any clinical symptoms. In kidneys which are the seat of chronic diffuse nephritis it is not infrequent to find cysts. The cysts are numerous, scat-217 THE KIDNEYS. tered through the cortex and pyramids, usually small, not often larger than a small chestnut. The cysts contain clear serum, or colloid matter, or brownish pigment. Their walls are thin, smooth, and lined with pavement epithelium. The larger cysts are formed by the fusion of several smaller cysts. In some of the cysts the remains of the atrophied Malpighian tufts can be found. The kidneys are usually atrophied, sometimes large. Minute examination shows the lesions of diffuse nephritis, with dilatation of the tubes and Malpighian capsules. In many kidneys, all the different stages of the dilatation process can be distinctly seen. The dilatation does not seem to be always due to compression of the tubes by new fibrous interstitial tissue ; but is also caused by the plugging of the tubes with colloid cast- matter. PRECIPITATES AND CONCRETIONS. The Urates.—In the kidneys of new-born children, we often find narrow, orange-colored lines in the pyramids parallel to the tubes. These lines consist of small, brownish-yellow, rounded, or angular bodies, resembling the sediment of urate of ammonia so often found in the urine. If acetic acid is added, these bodies are dissolved, and crystals of uric acid are formed. These deposits are found, as a rule, in infants which have breathed from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Exceptional cases have been reported, however, in which the same condi- tion was found in still-born children. Pigment.—In new-born children there are sometimes reddish- brown lines in the papillae and pyramids. They are composed of granules of pigments and ci'ystals of hsematoidine. They are the results of small haemorrhages in the tubes. They can be distinguished from the deposits of urates by the chemical reaction. The Carbonate and Phosphate of Lime may be deposited in the tubes of the pyramids, in the form of white lines. They are found in old persons, and with destructive diseases of the bones. " Urate of Soda is deposited in white lines and spots in the218 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. pyramids and cortex in some cases of chronic diffuse nephritis, especially in gouty individuals. It is deposited both in the tubes and in the intertubular tissue, in the form of acicular crystals. Concretions of the urinary salts of all sizes and shapes, and in indefinite numbers, may be formed in the calyces and pelvis of the kidney. They may pass through the ureter into the bladder ; or cause hydro-nephrosis, or pyelo-nephritis. NEW GKOWTHS. Fibroma.—Small, hard, wliite, fibrous nodules are frequently found in the pja-amids. The kidneys are normal, or the seat of diffuse nephritis. Myxoma.—Small nodules of mucous tissue are sometimes found in yramids. Large tumors may grow from the pel- vis of the kidney. They are usually a combination of myxoma, lipoma, and sarcoma. Lipoma.—There may be a diffused increase of fatty tissue around the capsule of the kidney ; and in atrophied kidneys an increase of fat about their pelves. Small, rounded, or lobu- lated, fatty tumors are occasionally found in the cortex, just beneath the capsule. Ttibercles.—With general tuberculosis we often find small, miliary, gray, or cheesy granulations scattered through the kidney. Besides this condition, there is another change in the kidney, which is generally called tubercle, but of which the real nature is somewhat doubtful. First the papilla?, and afterward the rest of the pyramids and the cortex, are converted into a yellow, cheesy mass, of firm or soft consistence. The entire kidney tissue may be destroyed in this way. The pelvis and the ureter are usually coated with a thick layer of the same cheesy mate- rial. Similar changes in the bladder, vesiculre seminales, testicle, prostate, uterus, and Fallopian tubes often exist in the same patient. The lesion is usually seen at such an advanced stage that nothing but the cheesy degeneration can be found. It is said that this condition is preceded by the formation of miliary219 THE KIDNEYS. tubercles, wliieli become aggregated and form the clieesy mass. LeuJcccmic Tumors are sometimes foiuid in the kidneys in con- nection with similar growths in the other viscera. The tumors are small, whitish, composed of lymphoid cells, and situated in the intertubular tissue. SijphilitiG Gummata have been observed in a few cases. They were in the form of nodules of the usual character. Klebs describes a more diffuse growth of fusiform cells between the tubes in a case of congenital syphilis. Sarcoma occurs in the kidney in the form of metastatic nodules. Myxo-sarcomata grow from the pelvis. Adenoma.—Klebs describes under this name tumors of small size, situated in the cortex. They are white, soft, and rounded. They consist of a connective tissue stroma, supplied with ves- sels, and in which are long, tubular, anastomosing spaces filled with small, polygonal, epithelial cells. The relationship of this form of tumor to true carcinoma is not well established. Carcinoma occurs in the kidney as a primary or secondary disease. The secondary tumors are usually of moderate size, and may occur in both kidneys. Primary carcinoma usually affects one kidney—more fre- quently the right than the left. It is most frequently of a soft, medullary, hjemorrhagic character. But scirrhus, melanotic, and colloid cancer also occur. The tumors gradually replace the kidney tissue, and often reach an enormous size. The new growth may project into the ureters, into the renal vein, and through this into the vena cava. Angioma Cavernosum occurs in the form of small, encap- suled nodules, situated in the cortex. Their structure is the same as that of the angiomata of the liver. PARASITES. EchinoGOCci are of not infrequent occurrence in the kidney. Gysticercus cellulosoB and Pentastoma denticulatum have been seen in a few cases. Eustrongylus gigas is sometimes found in the pelvis of the kidney.220 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. THE URINARY BLADDER. MALFORMATIONS. J^cstrophia, Extroversion, Inversion, Fissure of the Bladder is one of the most frequent malformations. It occurs in both sexes. (1.) The umbilicus is lower down than usual, the pubic bones are not united at the symphysis, the pelvis is wider and shal- lower than it should be. Between the umbilicus and pubes the abdominal wall is wanting. In its place is a projecting ovoid mass of mucous membrane, in which can be seen the openings of the ureters. The penis is usually rudimentary; the urethra is an open fissure, (epispadia;) the clitoris may be separated into two halves. The ureters usually open normally; sometimes their openings are displaced, or are multiple. They may be dilated. (2.) Vrolik describes a case in which there was a fissure in the abdominal wall, which was filled up by the perfectly formed bladder. (3.) The umbilicus may bo well formed, and there is a por- tion of abdominal wall between it and the extrophied bladder. (4r.) The external genitals and urethra may be well formed, and the symphysis pubis united, while only the bladder is fissured. (5.) The genitals, urethra, and symphysis may be Avell formed, the bladder closed, except at the upper part of its an- terior wall. The bladder is entirely or in part inverted and pushed through the opening in the abdominal wall. The Urachus normally remains as a very small canal, 5-7 centim. long, with a small opening into the bladder, or entirely closed at that point. If there is a congenital obstruction to the flow of urine through the urethra, the urachus may remain open, and the urine pass through it. Absence of the Bladder is very rare, and only described by the older authors. The bladder may be very small, and the urine pass almost directly into the urethra.THE URINARY BLADDER. 221 The bladder may be separated into an npper and a lower portion by a circular constriction. It may be completely or incompletely divided by a vertical septixm into two lateral portions. Diverticula of the wall are also found in new-born children. Partial or complete closure of the neck of the bladder also occurs. CHANGES IN SIZE AND POSITION. Dilatation of the bladder is produced by the accumulation of urine in consequence of some mechanical obstacle to its escape, or of paralysis of its muscular walls. The dilatation is uni- form, and may reach a great size. If the walls of the bladder are paralyzed, the dilatation is accompanied by thinning of the wall, or it may retain its normal thickness. If the escape of the urine is prevented by a mechanical obstacle, the walls of the bladder are usually hypertrophied, but may be thinned. The retained urine frequently decomposes, and produces inflam- matory and gangrenous changes in the mucous membrane. In the foetus, dilatation of the bladder may reach such a size as to interfere with delivery. I have seen, in a foetus born at term, dilatation and hyper- trophy of the bladder, dilatation of the ureters, a diverticulum at the neck of the bladder, and no apparent obstacle to the escape of urine. Diverticula of the bladder are produced by the protrusion of the mucous coat between the hyperti-ophied bundles of muscular fibres. They may be single or multiple, small, or so large as nearly to fill the abdomen. Their walls are composed of mucous membrane thickened, and of peritoneum, if in the proper position. They communicate with the bladder by a small cleft. The urine which fills them may decompose and excite inflammation. Calculi may be formed in them. Hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the bladder is usually produced by mechanical obstructions to the outflow of urine, such as stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, calculi, new growths, etc. The muscular coat is thickened uniformly, orPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 222 assumes a trabeciilated appearance. The organ retains its normal capacity, or is dilated, or becomes smaller. Tlie mucous mem- brane is frequently the seat of chronic or acute inflammation. Dilatation of the ureters and hydronephrosis frequently accom- pany this condition. IlernioB of the bladder sometimes accompany intestinal hernise through the inguinal and crural canals, and the foramen ovale. The changes in position of the bladder, produced by dis- placements of the vagina and xiterus, will be mentioned with the lesions of those organs. KTJPTUKE.—PEKFOEATION. Penetrating wounds of the bladder may produce escape of urine into the abdominal cavity, or infiltration into the sur- rounding connective tissue, or permanent fistuliB. Such wounds are always serious and frequently fatal. Rupture of the bladder may be produced by severe blows and falls when the bladder contains urine. More rarely, rupture takes place from over-distention. I have seen this occur in a patient who was being etherized preparatory to puncturing the bladder. Fractures of the pelvic bones may prpduce laceration of the bladder. Perforations of the bladder are produced by ulceration and gangrene, by abscesses from without, and by cancerous ulcera- tion from the adjoining organs. INFLAMMATION. Catarrhal Cystitis may be idiopathic; or excited by decom- posed urine, or by calculi; or be an extension of gonorrhoeal urethritis, or vaginitis. It may run an acute or a chronic course. In the acute form, the mucous membrane is SAVollen and in- tensely congested. Pus, mucus, and blood are set free from its surface. In the chronic form, the mucous membrane is at first swollen, succulent, grayish, or mottled with spots of congestion and extravasation, covered with a layer of muco-pus. Later, the223 THE URINARY BLADDER. mucous membrane becomes brown, or slate-colored, its swellinc; is more marked, and may take the form of tufts or polypi. The submucous and muscular coats are hypertrophied. The mucous membrane may be incrusted with the salts of the de- composed urine. Ulcerations take place which gradually per- forate all the coats of the bladder and produce abscesses in the surrounding connective tissue. These abscesses may finally open into the vagina, intestines, or through the skin. In other cases, the muscular coat is paralyzed, and the bladder dilated. The mucous membrane is discolored, incrusted with salts, gangrenous. The gangrene may extend to all the coats, and the urine escape into the abdominal cavity. In all cases the inflammation may extend to the ureters and kidneys. Croupous and Diphtheritic Inflammalion may accompany the same inflammation of the vagina; occur with scarlet fever, typhus fever, etc., with stone in the bladder and decomposing urine, with carcinoma; and are rarely an idiopathic disease. The entire mucous membrane or only patches of it are in- volved. It is intensely congested, or of a grayish color, covered and infiltrated with fibrine and pus, portions of it gangrenous. Sometimes entire fibrinous casts of the bladder are discharged by the urethra ; very rarely the mucous membrane itself is de- tached and cast ofi\ NEW GEOWTHS. Fibroma^ in the form of circumscribed nodules in the sub- mucous tissue, is described by Eokitansky as of very rare occurrence. Fibromapapillare occurs in the form of a mass of branching tufts, covered with cylindrical epithelium. The muscular coat of the bladder is often hypertrophied at the same time. The growth is most frequent in young persons, and even occurs in children. Fibroma polyposum occurs in the form of a circumscribed hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, usually near the neck of the bladder. It is most frequent in childhood. Fibro-Adenoma is found at the neck of the bladder, in the sub-224: POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. mucous tissue, or projecting inward in a polypoid form. The tumors are from the size of a pea to that of a pigeon's egg. They are composed of a fibrous stroma and of glandular follicles, resembling those of the prostate. They seem to be detached outgrowths from the prostate. Enchondroma.—A somewhat doubtful case of diffuse infiltra- tion of the entire wall of the bladder with cartilage is described by Ordonez. Tubercles of the bladder are sometimes foimd in connection with tubercles of the testes, prostate, vesiculse seminales, and kidneys. They are only found in the male. There are at first gray granulations in the superficial layers of the mucous mem- brane. These soften and form ulcers, of which the walls are infiltrated with new granulations. In this way large ulcers with cheesy floors and edges are formed. Cysts.—Paget mentions a case of a dermoid cyst in the wall of the bladder. Sometimes small serous cysts are found in the mucous membrane. Ca/rcinoma of the bladder is most frequently secondary to the same growth in neisihboring orsraus. As a primary growth it occurs ; (1.) As a diffuse sciiThous infiltration of the entire wall of the bladder, usually with ulcerations of its inner surface. (2.) As a circumscribed nodule which grows inward and out- ward, ulcerating on its inner surface, and sometimes producing perforations. (3.) As villous or epithelial cancer. The tumor grows from one or more points of the inner surface of the bladder. It is formed of tubular follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium, and on its inner free surface of tufts covered with cylijulrical epithelium. The new growth may involve the entire thickness of the wall of the bladder. (4.) As my0-carcinoma. Yirchow describes a tumor of this kind situated at the trigonuni, and composed of fibrous and smooth muscular tissues, forming cavities filled with epithelial cells. I have seen one such case, in which there were two small tumors at the neck of the bladder. They were composed of aTHE URETHRA. 225 fibrous and muscular stroma, forming cavities filled with epithelial cells. The tumors were softer, and the muscular tissue more abundant, than in the case described by Vircliow. PAKASrrES. Distoma hmmatobium has been observed ia the vessels of the mucous membrane—only in Egypt. Sarcina has been found with chronic cystitis. Eustrongylus, echinococcus, and ascarides sometimes find their way into the bladder from other organs. Every variety of foreign body may be introduced into and remain in the bladder. If their stay is long, they become in- crusted with the urinary salts. THE URETHRA. CONGENITAL MALFOKMATIONS. Some of the malformations of the urethra are described with those of the penis. The urethra may be impervious, or may open at the root of the penis. More commonly there is partial obliteration or stricture of some part of the canal. The entire urethra may be dilated into a sac full of urine. There may be a canal on the dorsum of the penis, formed by the fusion of the spermatic cords, and opening in the glans above the urethra. There may be two or more openings of the urethra. The canal may be dislocated so as to open in the inguinal re- gion. CHANGES IN SIZE AND POSniON. Dilatation of the urethra is produced by strictures, or by cal- clili which become fixed in it. The dilatations are fusiform or sacculated in shape, and may reach the size of an orange and over. Strictures of the urethra are produced by inflammation of its walls. 15226 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Tlie stricture may be temporary, produced by a diifused in- flammatory swelling of the miicons membrane, or by the raising of the relaxed membrane into a fold or pocket. Permanent strictures are produced by structural changes in the walls of the urethra. (1.) The mucous membrane and sub-mucous tissue is left hard and imyielding by the preceding inflammation. Subsequently, the new fibrous tissi;e contracts and narrows the canal. (2.) Ulceration of the mucous membrane leaves cicatricial tissue, which contracts, and also produces adhesions and bands of fibrous tissue. (3.) There is fibrous induration of the corpus spongiosum, and consequent Constriction of the m-ethra. The most frequent position of strictures is at the junction of the membranous and spongy portions of the urethra, or close to this point. They also occur at the fossa navicularis and the meatus, but frequently in the prostatic portion. There may be one stricture or several. The consequences of stricture are dilatation of the urethra, the bladder, the ureters, and hydronephrosis ; inflammation and ulceration of the urethra behind the stricture, with perforation, infiltration of m-ine, or the formation of fistulte. The urethra may also be obstructed by folds of the mucous membrane; by muscular valves at the neck of the bladder ; by wounds; by polypi and swollen glands; by new growths; by changes in the prostate and perineum; by calculi, mucus, blood, and echinococci coming from the bladder; by foreign bodies introduced from without. Prolapse and inversion of the mucous membrane is seen in young girls and women in rare cases. Tliere is a bluish, red swelling, from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, at the mea- tus. In the male, invagination of the mucous membrane of tlie urethra has been seen after injuries of the perineum. WOUNDS, KUPTUKE, PEKFOEATION. Wounds of the urethra are produced in many ways, but most commonly by catheters and bougies. The wounds may cicatrize,227 THE UEETHHA. or there may be infiltration of urine, or the formation of fis- tulfe. Ruptures of tlie urethra are produced by severe contusions and by fracture of the pelvic bones. Extravasations of blood and urine, and gangrenous inflammation of the surrounding soft parts, are the ordinary results. Ulceration and perforation of the urethra lead to the forma- tion of fistulse, which open in various directions through the skin. INFLAMMATION. Catarrhal Urethritis is most frequently due to infection from gonorrhoea, but is also produced by a variety of causes. In its acute form, it involves either a portion or the whole of the ure- thra. The mucous membrane is red, swollen, and covered with muco-pus. The inflammation may extend to the fibrous wall of the urethra, the corpora spongiosa, and cavernosa. This may result in the formation of new connective tissue, or of abscesses, especially near the fossa navicularis. The inflammation may also extend to the bladder, the glands of Cowper, the prostate, the spermatic cord, and the testicles. The inguinal glands also may be swollen and inflamed, and the lymphatic vessels on the dorsum of the penis may be involved in the same process. Clironic inflammation of the urethra may exist for a long time without producing any lesions. In other cases it leads to ulceration, to fibrous induration of the wall of the canal, to in- duration and swelling of the mucous follicles ; to polypoid thick- enings of the mucous membrane. Croupous Inflammation is sometimes seen in children. Fi- brinous casts of a small or large portion of the canal ai'e formed. SijphilitiG Ulcers may be situated at the meatus, or as far back as the fossa navicularis. They are apt to produce stric- tures. NEW GROWTHS. Fibroma Papillare, in the form of little polypoid excrescen- ces of the mucous membrane, sometimes occurs. They are the result of chronic inflammation, and are confined to a small or large portion of the wall of the urethra.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 228 liibercles are rarely found in the mucous membrane of tlie urethra in connection with tubercles of the bladder, prostate, or testicles. Carcinoma is usually only a part of some new growth of the penis, prostate,'or bladder. Very rarely, isolated nodules are found in the wall of the urethra, secondary to carcinoma of the bladder.THE ORGAKS OF GENERATIOK THE VULVA. MALFOKMATIONS. The external genitals may be entirely absent, or imperfectly developed. The clitoris and nymplise may be abnormally large, or tlie nymphse may be increased in number. The clitoris may be abnormally long, resembling a penis, at the same time the vagina is narrow, the uterus small and un- developed, the ovaries small, sometimes situated in the labia, the mammae small, and the body of a masculine character. The clitoris may be perforated by the urethra, or may be cleft and apparently double. The large or small labia may grow together, with or without obstruction of the urethra. There may be a fleshy septum above the lower commissure of the vulva. HiEMOEKUAGE. Haemorrhage may take place from wounds or ulcers of the vulva. The most important form of haemorrhage is that which occurs in the connective tissue of the labia majora. This is produced during labor. One of the labia may be swollen and distended by the extravasated blood, until it is as large as a child's head. The blood may be gradually absorbed, or it may become gan- grenous with suppuration of the surrounding tissue. The puru- lent matter may escape through the skin, and the patient re- cover ; or the suppuration may extend into the pelvis, and cause death.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 230 INFLAMMATION. The skin, mucous membrane, connective tissue, and glands of the vulva may be the seat of inflammation. Chronic catarrhal inflammation may produce a thickening and papillary hypertrophy of the cutis, with a moist ulcerating sur- face. Erysipelatous inflammation of the skin of the vulva is frequent in young children, and may cause death. In adults, it is less common. Acute oedema of the labia majora occurs in pregnant and puerperal women. It may terminate in gangrene or in suppu- ration. Inflammation of the vulvo-vaginal glands may be acute, and produce abscesses ; or chronic, and produce induration of the gland. Gangrene may follow erysipelatous inflammation, may oc- cur after parturition, may accompany severe and exhausting diseases, and may occur as an epidemic disease, especially among children. Herpes, Eczema, Lichen, Prurigo, etc., may be found on the skin of the vulva. NEW GROWTHS. Fibroma.—Fibroma difi'usum (elephantiasis) is found growing from the clitoris, the nymphse, and the labia majora. It ap- pears as a diffused hypertrophy of the parts, with a smooth or warty surface ; or as a polypoid growth with a narrow pedicle. In either case the structure is the same. If the skin remains smooth, its outer layers are but little changed ; if it is rough, the papillfe are hypertrophied. The new growth arises from the deep layers of the cutis, and consists of a loose connective tissue infiltrated with serum. The tumors may reach a very large size. Fibroma Papillare, Papilloma.—These tumors vary from the size of a pea to that of an apple. They present a rougli, cauli- flower-looking appearance. They are composed of papillai or tufts, with a central stroma of connective tissue and blood-ves- sels and a thick covering of epithelium.231 THE VULVA.' Fibroma Tuberosum.—Circumscribed fibrous tumors are found in the connective tissues of the labia, the mons veneris, the perineum, the clitoris, and the entrance of the A^agina. They may attain a large size, and may be attached only by a narrow pedicle. When a section is made, it will be found that the tumor is a circumscribed growth, not continuous with the skin. Lipoma.—Fatty tumors are found in the mons veneris and labia majora. They may reach a large size. Enchondroma.—Schneevogt describes a polypoid, cartilagi- nous tumor growing from the clitoris. Cysts are found in the connective tissue of the labia majora and minora. They are from the size of a pea to that of a child's head. They contain serum, colloid matter, pus, or blood, or have the character of dermoid cysts. They may open through the skin. Cj'sts are also formed by dilatation of the ducts or acini of the vulvo-vaginal gland. Carcinoma of the vulva is rare. It is usually accompanied by the same growth in the uterus and vagina, or in the other vis- cera. It occurs in the form of nodules, which, after a time, ulcerate. Epithelioma is more common. It usually begins in one of the labia majora. There is at first induration and thickening of a circumscribed portion of the labium, afterward ulceration. The inguinal glands may become involved, but metastatic tu- mors are rare. Lupus occurs in the labia majora and minora, the mons vene- ris, and the perineum in its usual forms. The cutis is infiltrated with small round cells. When the cell-growth reaches the sur- face of the skin, the epithelium falls off, and an ulcerating sur- face is formed. According to the extent of the infiltration and of the ulceration, Ave have the varieties : Lupus maculosus, no- dosus, hypertrophicus, exulcerans.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 232 THE VAGINA. MALFOKJIA'nONS. The vagina may be entirely absent, and tlie internal organs of generation also absent, or imperfectly developed. Either the upper or the lower portion of the canal may he absent while the remaining portion is present. The vagina may be closed by an imperforate hymen, or by fibrous septa at any part of its canal. The canal may be ab- normally small without being occluded. The vagina may be double, in connection with a double uterus; or, while the uterus is normal, the vagina may be in- completely divided by a longitudinal septum. The hymen is seldom entirely absent, but is often either too large or too small. CHANGES IN SIZE AND POSITION. Dilatation of the vagina is produced by tumors, by the pro- lapsed uterus, and by the accumulation of blood and mucus behind constrictions or obliterations of the canal. Lengthening of the vagina is produced by any cause which draws the uterus upward. Narrowing of the vagina is found as a senile change ; is pro- duced by tumors, and by ulceration of the wall of the canal. Extensive ulcers may even cause entire obliteration of the canal. Prolapse of the vagina occurs by itself or in connection with prolapse of the uterus. As an idiopathic process, it usually takes place soon after parturition. A larger or smaller portion of the canal is inverted and projects through the vulva. The entire circumference of the canal may be inverted and pro- lapsed, or only the anterior or posterior wall. The prolapse is at first small, but afterward gradually increases in size, and may drag down the uterus with it. In other cases, prolapse of the uterus is the primary lesion, and the vagina is inverted by the descent of that organ ; or, the body of the uterus may retain its normal position, while an233 THE VAGINA. hypertrophy and lengthening of the cervix alone drags down the vagina. Hernia vesico-vaginalis, Cystocele, may be either the cause or effect of a prolapse of the vagina and nterus. If the cystocele is the primary lesion, it begins as a small pro- jection of the wall of the bladder into the anterior part of the vagina. As the urine accumulates in this sac, it increases in size, projects through the vulva, draws down the vagina and the anterior lip of the cervix, finally the entire uterus. If the cystocele is the secondary lesion, it is simply produced by the dragging down of the posterior wall of the bladder by the inverted vagina. Hernia intestino-vaginalis.—A portion of the intestines may become fixed in Douglas's cul de sac between the rectum and uterus. This portion of intestine gradually becomes larger, pushes forward the posterior wall of the vagina, inverts and fills up that canal, and, finally, projects through the vulva. It may drag with it the posterior wall of the vagina and the uterus. Hectocele vaginalis.'—A sac is formed by the projection of the anterior wall of the rectum and the posterior wall of the vagina. This lesion is of rare occurrence, and does not reach a large size. WOUNDS. PEEFOKATIONS. Wounds of the vagina are made by penetrating instruments, by forceps and other obstetrical weapons, and by the foetus dur- ing delivery. Such wounds may heal; may give rise to large haemorrhages; may suppurate ; may produce abscesses in the sur- rounding tissues ; may leave fistulous openings into the vagina ; or may cause constriction or obliteration of its canal. Vesico-vaginal fistulse are usually produced by injuries from instruments or from the foetus during delivery ; less freqi;ently by ulceration of the vagina, bladder, or adjacent connective tissue. The fistulfe form an opening between either the bladder or the Tirethra and the vagina. They allow the urine to pass into the vagina. Spontaneous cure does not take place. Recto-vaginal fistula3 are formed in the same way as the last234: POST-]krORTEM EXAMINATIONS. mentioned, Tliey allow the passage of feces into the vagina. They sometimes heal spontaneously. INFLAMMATION. Catarrhal Inflammation of the vaginal mucous membrane may be acute or chronic. It is caused by gonorrhoea, by local irritation, or depends on general causes. In the acute form, there is an abundant production of pus. In the chronic form, the mucous membrane may be thickened, rough, and covered with hard papillae ; or it may become relaxed and prolapsed. Croupous and Diphtheritic Inflammation occur with general diseases and after parturition. The mucous membrane is cov- ered with a grayish layer of fibrine and pus-cells, in which the salts of the urine may be deposited. The mucous membrane and the submucous tissue may also be infiltrated with fibrine and pus-cells. The gangrene and degeneration of these infil- trated portions of the mucous membrane may leave deep ulcers. Suppurative Inflammation of the fibrous coat of the vagina is produced by injuries, and occurs in pregnant and puerperal women. Abscesses are formed, which may penetrate into the labia, or into the pelvic connective tissue. SyphilitiG Ulceration may be found in any part of the vagina. NEW GROWTHS. Myomata are sometimes found growing from the posterior wall of the vagina. They usually grow backward and upward, very rarely project into the cavity of the vagina in a polypoid form. Papilloma.—^xiisS\. and large polypoid growths composed of papillaj, or tufts covered with epithelium, are occasionally met with. Tubercles of the vagina are rare. They accompany tubercu- losis of the uterus, or of the urinary apparatus. They are found in the form of gray granulations, or of a diftuscd, yellow laj'er formed of many such granialations. Cysts arc sometimes met with deep in the vaginal mucousTHE UTERUS. 235 membrane. They are usually small, and contain serum or mucus. Sarcomata are sometimes found in the wall of the vagina. They may surround the urethra. Carcinoma is usually secondary to the same new growths in the uterus, but may be primary. It presents the same forms as are described in the uterus. Myoma strio-cellulare myxomatodes.—Under this name Frau Kaschewarowa-Rudnewa has described a peculiar tumor of the vagina. The tumor occurred in a girl 15 years old. It grew from the anterior wall of the vagina, and first appeared like a small polypus. It was removed, but recurred in a few weeks. It then grew rapidly until it reached the size of a child's head. The patient died exhausted by the disease. The growth was composed of round, fusiform, and stellate cells im- bedded in a mucous basement substance, and of striated mus- cular fibres. THE UTERUS. CONGENITAL MALFOKMATION. The uterus, up to the end of the third month of intra-uterine life, consists of two large cornua, which, by the fusion of their lower ends, form the uterus. The uterus, tubes, and vagina may be entirely absent, with or without absence of the ovaries and external genitals. Or the < uterus alone, or the upper part of the vagina also, may be absent. The uterus may be only rudimentary, while the vagina is normal. It then appears as a flattened, solid body, with solid cornua. Or there are two cornua joined at their lower ex- tremities so as to form a small double uterus. Or the uterus is represented by a small sac, which may or may not communicate with the vagina. Or there is a very small uterus with thin, muscular walls and two large cornua. Only one of the cornua, which should form the uterus, may be developed, while the other is arrested in its growth. The uterus is then a long, cylindrical body, terminating above inPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, 236 one tube. On the side where the other horn should have been developed, there is no tube, or only a rudimentary one. Both ovaries are usually present. The two cornua may be fully developed, but their lower ends remain separated, and form a double uterus. An entire separa- tion into two distinct uteri and vaginaa is very rare. More fre- quently, the utenis consists of one body, divided by a septum into two cavities. There are then two cervical portions of the uterus projecting into a single vagina, or each into a separate vagina. Or there is only a single cervix. The septum in the uterus may be complete, or only partial. We also find abnormal size of the uterus, abnormal flexions ; the cervix may be solid, or may be closed by the vaginal mu- cous membrane. CHANGES IN SIZE. In the new-born infant, the uterus is small, the body flattened, the cervix disproportionately large. During childhood, the or- gan increases in size, but the body remains small in proportion to the cervix. At puberty, the shape changes, and the body be- comes larger. Its length is then two to three inches; its breadth, sixteen to twenty lines; its thickness, eight to twelve lines. At every menstruation the uterus is somewhat swollen and congested. After pregnancy, it does not return to its vir- gin size, but remains somewhat larger. In old age, it gradually becomes smaller; its walls are harder and more fibrous. Ahnormal Smallness of the uterus is sometimes found as an arrest of development. Tlie uterus in adult life retains the size and shape of that of the infant. Atrophy of the uterus results from chronic endometritis, from repeated pregnancies, from puerperal endometritis, and from old age. Its walls are friable, its size is diminished, its cavity is smaller, or is distended with mucus. Large myomata some- times cause marked atrophy of the uterine wall. Atrophy of the vaginal portion of the uterus is sometimes observed after repeated pregnancies, sometimes without known cause. Narrowing and obliteration of the cavity of the uterus andTHE UTERUS. 237 of tlie cervix are usually produced by chronic inflammation. They may cause an accumulation of blood or mucus, and con- sequent distention of the uterus. JTypertropky of the uterus may occiu- in consequence of too early development. It is accompanied with abnormally early development of all the sexual organs and functions. Heart-disease, prolapse and abnormal flexions and versions of the uterus, chronic inflammation, repeated pregnancies, myo- mata, accumulations of blood or mucus in the uterine cavity, may all produce hypertrophy of the uterus. Hypertrophy of the vaginal portion is produced by the same causes as the above, and also is found without known cause. The hypertrophy consists in a uniform increase of size of one or both lips, or either one or both lips are hypertrophied and irregularly lobulated. There may be, at the same time, reten- tion-cysts formed in the mucous follicles of the cervix. Dilatation of the uterus is produced by accumulations of blood, mucus, or pus, in consequence of narrowing or oblitera- tion of the cervix or vagina. The walls of the uterus may re- tain their normal thickness, be thickened or thinned. The most frequent position of the stenosis is the os internum. The retained mucus and pus, after a time, change their charac- ter, and are replaced by a thin serum—hydrometra, or may be mixed with blood. The dilated uterus is not usually larger than an apple, but cases are recorded of enormous dilatation. If both the OS internum and os externum are closed, the ca- vity of the cervix is also dilated, and the uterus has the shape of an hour-glass. If the obstruction is in the vagina, the uterus and vagina form a large flask-shaped body, and the line of demarcation be- tween the cervix and vagina is lost. In some cases, the dilatation is confined to the cervix. If the obstruction is not complete, the retained fluid may es- cape into the vagina, and afterward accumulate again. HoRmatometra.—Accumulation of menstrual blood in the ca- vity of the uterus is usually produced by congenital stenosis of the cervix or vagina. The dilated uterus may reach an enor- mous size. If the fluid is not evacuated by surgical interference,238 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. there may be either rupture or ulcerative perforation of the uterus. The blood may escape into the abdominal cavity, or be shut in by adliesions, or perforate into the bladder or intes- tines. Sometimes the blood passes into the Fallopian tubes, dilates them, and escapes through their abdominal ends. CHANGES m POSITION. The body of the uterus may become fixed in an abnormal position; while the situation of the cervix is unchanged. The body may be bent forward—ante-flexion ; backward—retroflex- ion ; or sideways—lateral flexion. The flexion may be slight, or so great that the neck and body form an acute angle. Ante- flexion is the most common variety, and that in which the flexion is greatest. Peritoneal adhesions, flaccidity of the uterine walls, atrophy, ovarian tumors, etc., are the usual causes. TheYersions oi the uterus consist in an abnormal inclination of the long axis of the organ to that of the vagina. The uterus may be inclined backward, forward, or to one side. Retroversion is very much the most common. The fundus uteri is directed backward and downward ; the cervix, forward and iipward. This condition is found in various degrees; in the hio-hest, the fundus lies in Douglas's cul de sac with the cer- vix upward, so that the axis of the uterus is parallel to that of the vagina, but in a direction exactly opposite to the normal one. Abnormal looseness of the uterine ligaments, abnormally large capacity of the pelvis, hypertrophy or tumors of the uterus, and pregnancy during the flrst four months, are the usual causes of this lesion. The greater degrees of version may produce very grave lesions. The urethra and rectum are compressed. Cystitis, perforation of the bladder, dilatation of the ureters and hydronephrosis, and fatal obstruction of the bowels may follow. If pregnancy exist, abortion may take place, or the inverted uterus nuiy be forced through the pei-itoneuni and posterior wall of the vagina, and project through the vulva.239 THE UTEEUS. In the non-pregnant uterus, pressure on tlie veins, and conse- quent chronic inflammation of the organ, may follow. Anteversion, Inclination of the fundus forward and down- ward, and of the cervix backward and upward, is not common, and seldom reaches a high degree. Pressure on the bladder and rectum may be produced by it. Lateral version is produced by congenital shortness of one of the broad ligaments, by adhesions, or by the pressure of tu- mors. Prolapsus Uteri consists in a descent of the uterus in the va- gina. The position of the uterus may be only slightly lowered, or it may project through the vulva. In complete prolapse, we find a large tumor projecting through the vulva, covered by the distended vagina, and presenting the opening of the os exter- num near its centre. The bladder and rectum may be drawn down with the vagina, or may remain in place. The exposed cervix and vagina may become inflamed and ulcerated, or the mucous membrane may become thick and resistant. The process is frequently complicated by hypertrophy of the cervix. In the lesser grades of prolapse, the hypertrophy of the cervix often seems to be the most important part of the lesion. Sudden prolapse usually occurs after parturition, less fre- quently in virgins and in old women. Gradual prolapse is fre- quently caused by a cystocele or rectocele of the vagina. The vagina is dragged down, and draws the uterus with it. Elevation of the uterus is produced by mechanical causes— adhesions, tumors, etc. The vagina is drawn up and length- ened, and the vaginal portion of the cervix is obliterated. Inversion of the uterus consists in an invagination of the fun- dus. The fundus may be invaginated in the body ; the fundus and body in the cervix; or the entire organ in the vagina. The most common cause is traction on the umbilical cord dur- ing parturition. It may also take place spontaneously after parturition. Lesser degrees of inversion are produced by intra- uterine polypi, or hydro- or lisematometra. Hernia} of the uterus are very rare. Yentral hernice occur during the latter months of pregnancy. The peritoneum,POST-MORTEir EXAMINATIONS. 240 aponeuroses, and skin are forced outward to form a sac, in wliicli the uterus is placed. Crural hernise are produced by tlie drawing down of tlie uterus and ovaries into the sac of an intestinal hernia. Inguinal hernia is produced in the same way, or is congenital. Ischiadic hernia has been seen in one case. Pregnancy may occur in the uterus while situated in a cru- ral or inguinal hernia. KUPTUEE PEKFORATION. Rupture of the unimpregnated uterus is rare. It may, how- ever, occur when the uterine cavity is distended with blood or serum, or in connection with large myomata of the uterine walls. In the gravid uterus, ruptures have been seen in nearly every mouth of pregnancy. The rupture may be produced by thin- ning of the uterine wall by tumors, or by violent contusions. The act of parturition is the most frequent cause. Malposi- tions of the ftetus, narrowing of the pelvis, long protracted labor, thinning of the uterine wall from tumors, forcible use of the forceps and other instruments are the ordinary causes. The rupture may be in the body of the uterus or the cervix ; it may be large or small; it may extend completely or only partly tlirough the uterine wall. The consequences of partial rupture are haemorrliage, gangrenous inflammation of the edges of the rapture, peritonitis, and usually deatli. In rare cases, the rup- ture cicatrizes, and the patient recovers. Complete rupture usually causes death in a short time. The fcetus escapes partly or completely into the abdominal cavity. If the patient sur- vives the immediate shock, fatal peritonitis soon ensues. In rare cases, the foetus is shut in by adhesions, and the patient survives. Perforations of the uterus may be produced by carcinoma, by abscesses in its neighborliood, and by ovarian cysts.241 THE UTERUS. II^MOKKnAGE. Eifuslon of blood into tlie cavity of the uterus occurs normal- ly at every menstrual period. An excessive or deficient flow of blood at these periods is determined by causes which are de- scribed by the gynsecologists. Effusions of blood at other than the menstrual periods may be caused by mechanical hyperaemia, by haemorrhoids, by acute hyperjEmia, by intra-uterine polypi, by acute and chronic inflam- mation, by typhus fever, scurvy, etc., by ulcerating carcinoma, by abortions and miscarriages. A peculiar form of hseuiorrhage is the polypoid liiematoma, or fibrinous polypus of the uterus. It occurs after parturition and after abortions. The portion of the uterine wall where the placenta was attached, with or without a portion of retained jjlacenta, forms the point of attachment of the pedicle of the polypus. We find a large, polypoid, bloody mass, firmly at- tached by a pedicle to the uterine wall. The uterus enlarges with the growth of the polypus ; the cervix is dilated, and the thrombus projects into and may even fill up the vagina. The formation of such a thrombus is accompanied by repeated hajmorrhages. IIiiemorrha2;e in the substance of the uterus occurs in old a^e. The mucous membrane and uterine wall are infiltrated with blood, and there is some blood in the uterine cavity. Retro-uterine^ or Peri-uterine Ucematocele, consists in an accumulation of blood around the uterus or in Douglas's cul de sac. It may consist of blood extravasated into the abdominal cavity, which settles into the pelvis; or, in consequence of local liyperaemia, there may be repeated extravasations of blood. In the latter case, the local peritonitis may produce false mem- branes, between the layers of which htemorrhages take place. A similar condition more rarely occurs in the male. The hfemorrhagic mass may be absorbed, or may soften, sup- purate, and perforate into the rectum or vagina. Some authors describe an extra-peritoneal hsematocele which lies between the folds of the broad ligament. Tyler Smith be- lieves that an extravasation may be inclosed by a secondary 16POST-MORTEM EXAMIIS'ATIONS. false membrane. Most authors hold that the extravasation pro- ceeds from the nterus, ovaries, and tubes. This is denied by Virchow, Avho holds that in most cases the blood comes from the vessels of membranes formed by local peritonitis. The extravasation usually begins at a menstrual period, and increases at the succeeding periods. INFLAMMATIOX. 1. Of the Unlmjpregnated Uterus. Acute Catarrhal Endometritis is seldom seen after death. It occurs spontaneously, from gonorrhoea, with typhus fever, scur- vy, etc. During life, the mucous membrane is swollen and congested, and covered with an increased qi;antity of muco-pus. After death, these appearances may remain or disappear. Chronic Catarrhal Endometritis involves the body or cervix, or both. It may be the continuation of an acute inflammation, or begin as a chronic disease. It is found at every age ; but is most common after puberty. It is produced by a great variety of causes. In tlie lesser grades of inflammation, we find no re- liable lesions after death. In the more mai'ked cases, the mu- cous membrane is thickened, grayish, or blackish colored, cover- ed witli muco-pus. The papillse of the cervix are hypertrophied ; the mucous follicles are swollen, and their outlets obstructed. The uterine wall becomes accid and atrophied, or may be hy- pertrophied, especially the cervical poition. This simple hy- pertrophy of the uterus from catarrhal endometritis is often mistaken for inflammatory enlargement of the organ. During the course of the inflammation, we find ulceration of the mucous membrane, especially in the cervix, and hypertrophy of the ])a- pillcE of the cervix. There may also result contraction or oljlite- ration of tlie canal of the cervix. The inflammation may ex- tend to the Fallopian tubes, or to the vagina. Croupous Inflammation of the uterus is rare. It occurs witli cholera, typhoid fever, and t.ic exanthemata. Tlie disease usually extends to the vagina, sometimes to the Falk)i)ian tubes. Acut<2 Metritis is usually the result of acute catarrhal cndome-THE UTERUS. 2-A3 tritis. The organ is swollen, succulent, congested; the mucous membrane covered with muco-pus; the peritoneal coat congested. There may be small extravasations of blood in the wall or cavity of the uterus. The inflammation, in rare cases, becomes suppu- rative, and abscesses are formed in the uterine wall. These may perforate into the peritoneal cavity or into the rectum. Chronic Metritis is the result of an acute metritis, or accom- panies acute or chronic endometritis; or is idiopathic. The uterine walls become thick and hard. Many of the cases called chronic metritis are only catarrhal endometritis with hypertro- phy of the nterus. Perimetritis.—peritoneal coat of the nterus may be in- flamed with the production of membranous adhesions or of pus. The adhesions may be small or very extensive. The inflamma- tion usually accompanies chronic metritis and endometritis. In prostitutes, adhesions are almost the rule. Parametritis.—Tlie connective tissue about the uterus, be- tween that organ and the reflexions of the peritoneum, may be the seat of suppurative inflammation. It most frequently causes the death of the patient. 2. Of the Pregnant Uterus. The same forms of inflammation which have just been de- scribed may attack the pregnant uterus. Catarrhal endometritis may produce eflTusion of serum, extra- vasations of blood, and abortions. Metritis may lead to softening of the uterine wall, so tliat ruptures take place during labor. Perimetritis and parametritis produce adhesions and abscesses about the uterus. PUERPEKAL INFLAilOIATIOlSr. For a week after delivery, we And the inner surface of tlie still dilated uterus rough, especially at the insertion of the pla- centa, and covered with blackened, gangrenous-looking shreds of blood, mucous membrane, and placenta. This condition is not to be mistaken for inflammation.2U POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. In endometritis, the internal surface is covered with a thicker layer of gangrenous material, and there are patches of croiipous exudation whicli may extend into the vagina. The uterine siMuses are filled with thrombi, for the most part broken down into a puriform fluid. There may be also a diffuse purulent infiltration of the uterine wall, or circumscribed abscesses. Yery frequently there are also peritonitis and pytemic infarctions of the viscera. TJLCEEATION. PTiagedosnic or Corroding Ulcer.—This rare form of ulcera- tion usually occurs in old age, without assignable cause. It begins in the cervix and extends gradually imtil it may destroy the greater part of the uterus. It may even invade the blad- der and rectum. The ulcer is of irregular form, its base is rough and blackish, its walls indurated. Syphilitic Ulceration may attack the vaginal portion or inte- rior of the cervix, or the internal surface of the body of the uterus. It has the usual forms of the hard and soft chancre. Catarrhal Ulceration is most common in the cervix. It ac- companies catarrhal endometritis. The ulcers are superficial erosions or formed from inflamed follicles. DEGENERATION. Waxy Degeneration has been observed by Yirchow in one case. The uterus was liypertrophied and the muscle-cells were infiltrated with the waxy material. NEW GROWTHS. ' Myoma.—Tliese tumors, often called fibrous tumors, are very common in the uterus. They occur after puberty, and usually in advanced life. They are usually multiple, and may reach an immense size. Their favorite situation is the body of the uterus, rarely the cervix. According to their position we may distinguish a subserous, submucous, and intra-parietal form. The subserous myomata grow from the outer muscular lay-THE UTERUS, 245 era of the uterus in the form of little nodules. As they in- crease in size, they separate themselves from the uterine wall and remain attached only by a narrow pedicle, or by a little connective tissue. If they are situated on the sides of the ute- rus, they may work their way between the folds of the broad ligament until they are at some distance from their point of origin. Some authors mention cases in which the tumors be- came entirely detached from the uterus and were free in the abdominal cavity. In some cases, the tumors excite inflammation of the adjacent peritoneum, leading to the formation of adhesions or of collec- tions of pus. In other cases, the tumor reaches a large size, but remains firmly attached to the uterus. This organ is then drawn up- ward, the cervix and vagina are elongated and narrowed. The traction may be so great that the body of the uterus is entirely separated from the cervix. The bladder may also be drawn upward, producing incontinence of urine and cystitis. This form of myoma is usually hard and dense, the fibrous tissue more abundant than the muscular. Calcification fre- quently takes place. The submucous m3'omata grow from the inner muscular lay- ers of the uterine wall. They commence as rounded nodules which lift up the mucous membrane. Their usual position is the fundus uteri, sometimes the anterior or posterior wall, rarely tlie lateral portions. In the cervix they are very seldom found. As the tumors increase in size, they project into the uterine cavity. They then remain continuous with the uterine wall, over a large area, or are attached by a large or small pedicle. They are w^ell supplied with vessels. The uterus dilates with the growth of the tumor, and its walls are also thickened. The tumor may reach such a size as to entirely fill the cavity of the dilated uterus and project through the cervix into the vagina. The submucous myomata are usually single, although there may be at the same time subserous and intra-parietal tumors. These myomata are usually soft, of whitish or reddish color,246 POST-MOllTEM EXAMINATIONS. of a lamellated or reticulated structure. Tlic spaces between the lamelljB or in the reticulum maybe so large that the growth has a cavernous or cystic character. If the polypus is of large size and projects through the cer- vix, it may drag down the fundus of the uterus and produce inversion of that organ. ITfemorrhages take place from the surface and in the sub- stance of these myomata. Inflammation, suppuration, and partial gangrene also occur. The surface of the tumor may look like a ragged, gangrenous mass. In some cases, the pedicle of the growth is destroyed and the tumor is spontaneously expelled. The intra-parietal myomata grow in the substance of the uterine wall, but if they attain a large size, project beneath the serous or the mucous coat. They are found in every part of the \iterus, but are most frequent in the posterior wall. The shape of the uterus is altered in every conceivable way by the presence of these growths ; its cavity is narrowed, dilat- ed, or missliaj^en; it undergoes flexion and version in every di- rection. The tumors may grow outward, betw'een the folds of the broad ligament. They may sink downward and becon)e attached to the posterior wall of the vagina, looking as if they grew from it. They may project into the cavity of the uterus, till it up, and project through the cervix, but have no pedicle like the submucous form. The uterus is dilated, its wall hypcr- trophied or atrophied. The musciilar fibres may undergo fatty degeneration, and the tumor diminish in size; cases of entire atrophy in this way are reported. Or, the muscular tissue atrophies, the connective tissue increases in amount and density, and the tumor becomes smaller and harder. Calcification may also take place, espe- cially in the smaller myomata, and convert them into a stony mass. Some of these tumors are soft. This takes place in several diflerent ways. The interstitial connective tissue may be con- verted into mucous tissue, rich in cells and infiltrated witli mucus. Or the connective tissue may undergo an ocdematous softening, while the muscular fibres atrophy. We then find the247 THE UTERUS. tumor filled with small cavities containing serum. Or the soft consistence may be simply due to the preponderance of muscu- lar tissue. Occasionally Ave find in a portion or in the whole of a tumor an abundance of dilated blood-vessels, which gives the part a true cavernous structure, like that of an erectile tumor. These tumors may change their size suddenly from the variable amount of blood which they contain. A very important change, which is sometimes found in these tumors, is tlie development of cysts in their interior, (til)ro- cystic tumors.) This takes place in those tumors which grow outward beneath the peritoneal coat. We find one or more cavities, communicating with each other, with rough, trabecu- lated walls. The appearance is more that of cavities than of cysts. There may be a number of smaller cavities, or they may fuse to form one large one. The fluid contained in the cavities is like synovia, or is mixed with blood. These cystic myomata may reach an immense size, and fill the abdominal cavity. The diagnosis between them and ovarian cysts is very difficult, and they have frequently been the subjects of fatal operations. The intra-parietal myomata may give rise to profuse hajmor- rliages ; they may suppurate and become gangrenous ; the intra- uterine ones may undergo spontaneous expulsion ; those which project beneath the peritoneum may produce inflammation of the neighboring tissues. In the cervix uteri, myomata are rare. They may grow as polypi beneath the mucous coat; or produce enlargement of the anterior or posterior lips; or may grow outward into the ab- dominal cavity. I have seen a cystic myoma of large size grow- ing from the posterior wall of the cervix and the upper part of the vagina, which was mistaken for an ovarian cyst. In the wall of the vagina, myomata are still more rare. They \isually grow outward, toward the rectum or bladder; very rarely project inward" as polypi. Fibroma Papillare, Papilloma, occurs in the form of (1) small, soft, polypoid growths from the mucous membrane of the uterus or cervix ; (2) as syphilitic condylomata of the248 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. cervix; (3) as large papillary growths from tlie cervix. The structure is that of papilloe, or branching tufts formed of a stroma of connective tissue and vessels, and covered with epi- thelium. I'he larger growths are closely related to epithelial cancer, and after a time exhibit a growth of epithelial cells which places them unmistakably in that class. In some of the smaller polypi, the vessels may be so large and numerous as to give the growtli a cavernous structure. In others, the follicles of the mucous membrane are present in large amount. Angioma.—Virchow describes a single case of a small caver- nous angioma in the wall of the uterus. Cysts.—In the cervix uteri the mucous follicles are fre- quently dilated so as to form cysts filled with colloid matter and epithelium—ovula Nabothi. Sometimes there is an inflam- matory growth of connective tissue around these cysts, so that they resemble the molluscum of the skin. In other cases, the cysts may project from the mucous membrane until they take tlie form of a polypus. The same changes are found less fre- quently in the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus. In rare cases, serous and dermoid cysts are found in the wall of the uterus. Tahercles.—We sometimes find the cavity of the uterus and of the Fallopian tubes lined with a yellow, cheesy mass. This is said to be produced by the degeneration of multitudes of gray, miliary tubercles scattered through the mucous membrane. SijphilitiG Gummata are occasionally found in the uterine wall in theibrm of whitish, rounded nodules. Sarcoma occurs as a metaplasia in myomata of the uterus, forming myo-sarcomata. There is a growth of round, fusiform, and stellate cells, and of mucous tissue replacing the muscular and fibrous tissue. At the same time, large and small C3'st3 may be formed in the tumor. Sarcoma also occurs as a primary growth from the uterine mucous membrane. The tumors may grow from a large part of the internal surface of the uterus, or they may assume a polypoid shape. In the latter case, large portions have been removed at successive operations, followed by recurrence.249 THE UTEEUS. Carcinoma.—The most frequent form of cancer of tlie nterns is classed by different authors either as a true carcinoma, or as an epithelioma or cancroid. So that we find some saying that epithelioma, and othei's that carcinoma, is the more frequent, while both really mean the same growth. This apparent dis- crepancy arises partly from the difierent significations given to the words epithelial and true cancer, and partly from the pecu- liar anatomy of the growth. The distinction between true and epithelial cancer is one which was never very sharply drawn, and now that the epithe- lial character of all cancers is so strongly insisted on, the two classes are being brought more and more nearly together. Tlie anatomy of this form of growth is partly that of the epithelial and partly that of the ti'ue cancers. There is a stroma composed of connective tissue fibres and round cells in variable proportions. This stroma may be abundant or scanty, but is usually well marked. In the stroma are cavities of round, oval, and tubular shape filled with cells. The cells resemble somewhat the epithelium of the vaginal portion of the cervix, but are more ii'regular in shape. They are large, poly- gonal, or rounded, with one or two large nuclei. In rare cases, they have the form of cylindrical epithelium. The cells are sometimes closely packed, and form concentric nests ; in other cases, they merely fill the alveoli. According to the manner in which this new growth invades the uterus, the gross appearances vary. (1.) We find at first, in the vaginal portion of the cervix in the submiicous connective tissue, either nodules or a general infiltration of a whitish new growth. The cervix then appears large and hard. Very soon the mucous membrane over the new growth degenerates and falls off", the superficial layers of the new growth undergo the same changes. After this, the formation of the new growth and its ulceration go on simulta- neously, producing first an infiltration, and then destruction of the cervix, and often of a part of the body of the uterus. The growth frequently extends to the vagina, the bladder, and rec- tum with the same destructive character, so that we often find the cervix and upper part of the vagina destroyed, and in their250 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. place a large cavity, with ragged, gangrenous, cancerous walls. Less frequently the pelvic bones are invaded in the same way. Metastatic tumors in the lymphatic glands and viscera are rare. I have seen small secondary nodules in the lungs, formed of large, flat cells closely packed in nests. Isot uiifrequently the ureters are surrounded and com- pressed by the new growth, so that they become dilated. Tlie dilatation may extend to the pelves and calices of the kidneys. (2.) The develoY)ment of the new growth is more rapid than Its destruction. AVe find large, fungous, soft masses projecting Into the vagina and the canal of the cervix. (3.) The ulceration Is more rapid than the new growth. Wc find larger or smaller ragged, ulceratins; surfaces, of which the floor and walls are composed almost entirely of gangrenous new growth and uterine tissue- The amount of the new growth which is left may be so small as to render the diagnosis be- tween carcinoma and pliagedsenic ulcer very difiicult. (4.) The new growth begins in the cervix, and extends uni- formly over the internal surface of the cervix and of the body of the uterus. The entire uterus is converted into a large sac, of which the walls are iuflltrated with the new growth, while the internal surface is ulcerating and gangrenous. (5.) In rare cases, the growth begins in the upper part of the cervix, or iu the body of the uterus, while the lower part of the cervix is not involved. (G.) In rare cases, the entire wall of the uterus is infiltrated with the now growth, and the organ Is much enlarged. Papillary EpWielial Cancer (cauliflowei- growth) Is an in- frequent form of disease. It is said that simple papilloniata may, after a time, exhibit an increased cell-growth, and epithe- lial nests in their stroma, ljut the real relationship between simple papilloma and papillary cpitlielioma of the cervix Is still not at all understood. The growth springs from tlie vaginal portion of the cervix. It appears as a lobulated, fungous mass composed of numerous tufts. It may reach such a size as to fill the vagina. The minute structure is that of tufts covered witli epithelium. In the stroma of the larger tufts, in the connec- tive tissue at the base of the growth, and in the wall of theTHE OVARIES. 251 cervix, beneatli the growth, we find alveoli filled with epithelial cells. True Carcinoma is not very common in the uteriis. The gross appearances resemble those of the more ordinary epithe- lial form of the growth. The tumor usually begins in the cervix, sometimes in the body of the uterus. It forms fungous masses projecting into the vagina, or growth and ulceration go on at the same time, or ulceration goes on faster than growth. Infection of the surrounding tissues is frequent; metastatic tumors often occur. Colloid Carcinoma is rare. It may involve the cervix or body. It has the ordinary S'tructure of a fibrous stroma form- ino; resrular alveoli, containing gelatinous matter and cells. oft / DO PARASITES. Echinococci have been observed in the body and neck of the uterus; they may rupture into the peritoneal cavity or into the vagina. THE OVARIES. MALFOEMATIONS. Both ovaries may be absent, the other organs of generation being also aljsent or undeveloped. Or the ovaries may be only partially developed. Absence or arrest of development of one ovary is sometimes met with in well-formed individuals. It is sometimes accom- panied by a low jDosition of the kidney on the same side. The ovaries may pass into the inguinal canal or into the labia majora, and remain fixed there through life. Less frequently they are found in the crural canal and the foramen ovale. CHANGES IlSr SZE. Atrophy is a regular senile change. The Graafian follicles disappear, and the organ shrivels into a small fibrous body. Atrophy is also produced by ascites, by chronic inflammation, or as an idiopathic change. True hypertrophy of the ovaries does not occur, but the stro- ma may be increased in amount.POST-ilORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 252 CHANGES IN POSITION. Ill adult life, tlie ovaries may descend as liernife into the in- guinal or crural canal, tlie foramen ovale, or the umbilicus. The position of the ovaries in tlie abdomen may be changed by the pressure of tumors, tlie traction of false membranes, etc. Kokitansky describes a twisting of the ovary on its axis, with twisting of the Fallopian tube around the ovarian ligament. It usually occurs in enlarged ovaries, and by the compression of the veins, leads to congestion and inflammation of the tube, ovary, and peritoneum. HEMORRHAGE. Every menstrual period is accompanied by the effusion of blood into a Graafian follicle. Normally, the amount of blood is small, becomes solid, is decolorized, and then gradually ab- sorbed. Sometimes the effusion of blood is much greater ; the follicle filled with blood is as large as a pigeon's egg. The blood may remain in the follicle and be absorbed, or it may rupture it and escape into the peritoneal cavity. Death may ensue from the hsemorrhage, or the blood may collect in Dou- glas's cul de sac, and be inclosed in fiilse membranes. Ilte- morrhages also occur in follicles, Avhicli have become cystic. INFLAmiATION. Inflammation of the ovaries occurs most frequently in the puerperal condition, either as part of a general peritonitis, or as a primary aft'ection. Witli puerperal peritonitis, botli ovaries are usually inflamed ; they are swollen, congested, soft, infiltrated with serum or pus, or gangrenous. The inflammation may attack principally the capsule, the stroma, or the follicles. Inflammation of the cap- sule results in adhesions and collections of pus, shut in by false membranes; of the stroma, in abscesses and fibrous indu- ration; of the follicles, in their containing purulent serum. If the inflammation of the ovary is the primary lesion, it is usual- ly conflned to one organ. The stroma of the ovary is infiltrated with serum and pus, and may contain abscesses of large size.THE OVARIES. 253 In other cases, the ovary itself is but little changed, but is sur- rounded by a mass of fibrinous and purulent exudation. Sucli idiopathic forms of inflammation may terminate in recover}^; or the abscesses may perforate into the rectum and vagina; or the ovary is left indurated and bound down by adhesions; or the patient dies from the violence of the disease. Idiopathic inflammation of the ovaries unconnected witli the puerperal condition is rare. It is confined to one ovary. Eitlier the follicles, stroma, or capsule may be involved. The inflamed follicles appear enlarged, their walls tliickened; they contain bloody or purulent serum. The stroma becomes infiltrated with serum or pus ; and later, we find abscesses or fibrous indu- ration of the organ. The inflammation of the capsxile leads to formation of membranous adhesions between the ovary, Fallo- pian tube, and adjoining organs. NEW GROWTHS. Cysts.—(1.) The Graafian follicles may be dilated so as to form cysts. This usually occurs only in one ovary; sometimes in both. Tlie follicles become enlarged, filled with serum, the ovum disappears, and we find cysts with thin walls, lined witli pavement epithelium, and containing serum. Sometimes we find the cyst lined Avith cylindrical or even ciliated epithelium. There are usually a number of such cysts, all of small size. Sometimes, however, one cyst will attain a very large size. Tlie fiuid contained in it will be serous, viscid, purulent, or mixed with blood. There maybe fibrous outgrowths from the interior of the cyst-wall. Such cysts usually are found after middle life, but may occur during youth, childhood, and even in the foetus. A variety of this form of cyst is formed by the dilatation of a follicle containing a corpus luteimi. A thin layer of clot is then found lining the walls of the cyst. Such cysts ma}- com- municate with the Fallopian tubes. (2.) Composite Colloid Cysts.—This is the most common form of ovarian cyst. Either one or both ovaries are affected. Tlie cysts are found from the size of a walnut to that of the preg- nant uterus. The gross appearance varies according to the size, number, contents, and stroma of the cysts. r254 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The gvowtli consists of a fibrous stroma, in wliicli arc tubular follicles lined with cylindrical epithelium, and containing colloid matter and rounded cells. The cysts are formed by the dilata- tion of these follicles. There may be a great number of follicles equally dilated, so as to form a number of cysts of moderate size; or only a few follicles are enormously dilated to form a large multilocular cyst, with but few compartments. The walls of the cysts may fuse together, and be absorbed so as to form one large cyst divided by incomplete septa. The stroma in which the follicles and cysts are imbedded may be largely de- veloped or very scanty. The walls of the follicles and smaller cysts are lined with cylindrical epithelium. They contain col- loid matter mixed with a variable number of rounded colls. Sometimes the cells coptain globules of colloid matter. The M-alls of the larger cysts are composed of fibrous tissue. Tliey may be thin and membranous ; or we find developed on their internal surfaces an intra-cystic growth composed of a fibroiis stroma and tubular follicles. These secondary follicles may also be filled with colloid matter, and form cysts. The intra- cystic growths may be so large as to fill up the original cysts. Sometimes the intra-cystic growth presents very little dilatation of its follicles, so that the entire tumor has more the character of a solid growth than of a cyst. The contents of the larger cysts are serum or colloid matter of variable consistence and color, and mixed Avith blood or pus. The cyst-walls may be- come inflamed and covered with fibrine or pus. The cysts may rupture into the abdominal cavity, or may be discharged through the intestine or through the abdominal wall. The structure of these cysts is, therefore, that of a cystic ade- noma. In some of these cysts, the formation of fibrous tufts, covered with epithelium, becomes the most prominent feature of the growth. Here, as in the cylindrical-celled epithelial can- cers, we find the close relationship between follicles lined with epithelium and tufts covered with ei^ithclium. In many of the cysts in which the formation of follicles and their dilatation is well shown, the growth of tufts to a limited extent is also seen. Ihit there arc other cysts in which the255 THE OVARIES. cyst-cavity is filled witli a mass of tufts, looking like a cauli- flower. Strictly speaking, such growth should be classed with the papilloniata, but their relationship to the adenomata seems to be very close. They are often supposed by clinical observ- ers to be cancerous, on account of their fungous appearance ; but they are of a totally different character. Dermoid Cysts.—These cysts are single or multilocular. They may he no larger than a walnut, or of very large size. They contain a thick, greasy material composed of epithelium, fat, and cholesterine. A portion of the internal surface of the cyst-wall may have the structure of the cutis : papillae, hair follicles, and sebaceous follicles. In the cavity of the cysts may be found masses of hair, teeth, bones, cartilage, striated muscle, nerve-fibres and cells, and gray nerve-matter. Such cysts may be congenital. Tiiey often last for many years without much inconvenience; but they may form adhesions and perforate into the adjoining organs. Fibroma.—A number of tumors have been seen in the ovaries by different observers, which, although resembling each other in their gross appearance, have a different anatomical structure. They occur usually in one ovary, sometimes in both. They are usually small, but may attain an immense size. They resemble the hard uterine myomata in their gross appearance. They occupy the entire ovary, or only part of it. They may contain cysts, or the follicles in the portion of ovary that is left may be dilated so as to form cysts. They are composed of fibrous tis- sue alone, or mixed with a little smooth muscle, or with fusi- form and round cells. They belong, therefore, to the classes of Fibroma, .Myo-fibroma, and Fibro-sarcoma. Encliondroma of the ovary is rare. Cartilaginous tissue is found is some composite and dermoid cysts. SyphilitiG Gummata in the form of white nodules have been observed in a few cases. Tiibercles very rarely occur in the ovary. They are describ- ed as cheesy nodules of some size. Sarcoma of the ovaries is not frequent. It may be primary or metastatic. The tumors are hard and dense, or softer and of loose texture. They are composed of fibrous tissue Avith fusi-256 POST-MORTE^r EXAMINATIONS. form and round cells. They usually involve both ovaries, and occur before middle life. Carcinoma is foimd as a primary and metastatic growth, and as a continuous infection from the neighboring organs. Medul- lary carcinoma is the most frequent form, but scirrhus, mela- notic, and colloid cancer are sometimes found. The new growth may be joined with the development of cysts. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. MALFORJIATIOXS. Absence of both tubes occurs with absence of the uterus. One tube may be absent, with arrested development of the cor- responding side of the uterus. Both tubes may be imperfectly developed, either of their ends may be closed, they may be in- serted into tlie uterus at an abnormal place, they may terminate in two or three abdominal ostia. CHANGES IX SIZE. Dilatation of the tubes, with increase of their length, is pro- duced by the accumulation of catarrhal secretion, or by a con- striction of some portion of the tube. Narrowing of the tubes is produced by inflammation or by masses of mucus, blood, or pus. The abdominal end may be bound down and closed by adhesions, or the uterine end may be closed. In old age, the lumen of the tabes becomes very small or is obliterated. Rupti^re of a dilated tube sometimes takes place. H^MOEEIIAGE. Hsemorrliage in the tubes has been observed in Typhoid Fever, in puerperal women, with retroversion of the uterus, with abortions, in measles, with menorrhagia, with ha^mato- metra, and with tubal pregnancy. The blood may escape into the peritoneal cavity and cause peritonitis.257 THE FALLOPIAN" TUBES. INFLAMMATION. Catarrhal Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the Fallopian tubes is of common occurrence. It is connected with endometritis, with the puerperal condition, or is an idiopathic affection. Usually both tubes are involved, the mucous mem- brane is swollen, and there is a production of mucus and pus in ^ the tubes. The inflammation may subside without leaving any lesions, but more' frequently results in peritoneal adhesions, obliteration of the tubes, dilatation, and abscesses. Dilatation of the tubes is usually produced by obstruction or obliteration of their uterine extremities. The dilatation is generally moderate, converting the tube into a tortuous saccu- lated canal, containing mucus or serum mixed with pus or blood. More rarely, the dilatation is excessive and cysts are formed containing several pounds of fluid, and which may be mistaken for ovarian cysts. Dr. Peaslee has reported a case in which death ensued from haemorrhage into the cavity of such a di- lated tube. In some cases, the fluid in the dilated tubes is entirely puru- lent, forming abscesses in the tubes. These abscesses may rup- ture into the peritoneal cavity, or the pus may escape into a cavity shut in by adhesions, or may perforate into the intes- tines. Suppurative Inflammation of the tubes is found in connec- tion with puerperal peritonitis and metritis. The tubes are swollen, intensely congested and pus exudes from their abdo- minal ends. It is often difficult to determine whether the peri- tonitis or salpingitis is the primary lesion. new' growths. Cysts of small size are often found on the tubes and broad ligaments. They are formed by dilatation of the follicles of the foetal organs :—the WoMan Body, and the accessory ovary. Besides these, serous and colloid cysts, sometimes of large size, are found which seem to be true new growths. Kiwisch says that cysts are also found between the folds of peritoneum which accompany the round ligaments. 17258 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Fibroma occurs in the form of small nodules in the wall of the tubes. They may become calcified. Lipoma is found between the folds of the broad ligament. The tumors are of small size. Myoma of the wall of the Fallopian tubes is very rare and the tumors are of small size. Carcinoma is found in the tubes only as a secondary growth continuous with the same growth in the adjoining viscera. EXTRA-TJTEEINE PREGNANCY. Tubal Pregnancy.—The impregnated ovum is in some way hindered from passing into the uterus, becomes fixed in the tube, and is there developed. The embryo and its membranes are developed until they reach such a size that the tube surround- ing them ruptures. This may take place in the first month, or not until the sixth. The ovum may remain in the tube after the rupture; or may escape into the peritoneal cavity still en- veloped in its membranes; or the membranes may be ruptured and left in the tube. The rupture is generally attended with fatal haemorrhage. In some cases, death is caused by the rup- ture of a dilated vein, while the tube is still intact. In rare cases, death does not take place, and the foetus is shut in by adhesions and false membranes. The embryo soon dies. In favorable cases, there is a slow absorption of the soft parts of the foetus, the bones ai'e separated and left imbedded in a mass of fibrous tissue, fat, cholesterine, and pigment. Or tlie foetus retains its shape and becomes mummified, and may then be in- •emsted with the salts of lime. In unfavorable cases, degeneration and gangrene of the foetus take place rapidly, with inflammation and suppuration of the surrounding tissues. There may be perforation and escape of the broken-down foetus through the rectum, vagina, bladder, or abdominal wall. The patient may die from jjeritonitis or ex- haustion, or may recover after the escape of the foetus. In some cases, the foetus may escape through a rupture of the tube into the space between the folds of the broad ligament. Tubal-Abdominal Pregnancy is produced by the develop-259 THE PENIS. ment of the ovum in the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. Adhesions are formed, so that the foetus is partly in the end of the tube and partly in the abdomen. Interstitial Pregnancy.—The ovum is arrested and deve- loped in the portion of the tube which passes through the wall of the uterus. Ovarian Pregnancy.—The ovum is developed in its Graafian follicle. The existence of this form of extra-uterine pregnancy is doubtful. Abdominal Pregnancy.—The ovum after escaping from the ovary does not enter the Fallopian tube, but becomes fixed at some point near it. It is siuTounded by thickened peritoneum and developed in that position. In all forms of extra-uterine pregnancy, the uterus becomes enlarged, and a sort of decidua is formed on its internal surface. THE PENIS. MALFORMATIONS. Entire absence of the penis is met with in connection with great defects of development of the rest of the body. Absence of the penis with proper development of the other organs of generation is rare. The urethra then nsually opens into the rectum. An abnormally small penis is found, with absence or arrested development of the testicles. Absence of the prepuce has been observed in a number of cases. Congenital phinosis is also not infrequent. Hypospadia consists in an arrest of development of the penis and scrotum. In its highest degrees, the penis is one half to one inch long, the glans penis small and resembling a clitoris. On the lower side of the penis is a deep cleft, lined with mu- cous membrane. Into this cleft the urethra opens at the root of the penis. The scrotum remains separated into two halves^ resembling labia majora. The testes descend into their proper position on each side, or remain in the abdomen. If the testi- cles continue to develop normally, the individual has the appear-260 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, ance and capacities of a man; if tlieir development is arrested, the individual is small and has a womanish aj)pearance. In lesser grades of the same malformation, the two halves of the scrotum are joined and the penis is larger, but a part of the urethra remains open as a cleft. Uterus MasGulinus.—This malformation consists in an ab- normal change in the transition from the foetal condition of the parts to their fully developed form. In the male, normally, the greater part of Miiller's canal disappears, and its lower end forms the vesicula prostatica. In this malformation, Miiller's canal is changed, as it is in the female, into Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina, while at the same time the testes, epididymes, vesiculse seminales, and spermatic cord are formed as usual. In the lesser degrees of this malformation, we find, in the place of the vesicula prostatica, a pear-shaped sac, as large as a pigeon's egg, with muscular walls and an epitlielial lining. This sac may be incompletely divided into a uterus and vagina, and it opens into the urethra. In the higher grades, we find a well- formed vagina and uterus. The uterus may or may not have Fallopian tubes. The testicles are usually retained in the abdo- men or inguinal canals, and are small. The spermatic ducts run on the sides of the uterus and 0])en into the urethra or remain closed. The penis and scrotum appear as in hypospa- dia, or are well formed. The appearance of the individual varies with the development of the testicles. A rare modification of this malformation consists in tlie exis- tence of hypospadia; of a vagina and uterus; of a Fallopian tube and ovary on one side, and of a testicle and spermatic cord on the other side. HYPERTROPHY, ATROPHY, Hypertrophy of the penis is sometimes caused by venous congestion from heart-disease ; by long-continued masturbation, the corpus cavernosum losing its contractility; and in rare cases, by hypertrophy of the stroma of the corpus cavernosum. Atrophy is sometimes produced by chronic iilceration of the glans penis, and sometimes follows atrophy of the testicles.261 THE PENIS. ETFLAMMATION. JBalanitis, inflammation of the prepuce, is usually produced by gonorrhoea, or by accumulations of smegma. The skin is red and swollen, and may ulcerate. Condylomata may be formed, and adhesions between the prepuce and glans. The glans may ulcerate and the prepuce may be much thickened. If the prepuce is long, there is an inflammatory phymosis, and the products of inflammation accumulate within the swollen pre- puce. In some cases, the prepuce becomes gangrenous. Parwphymosis is produced by the retraction of a narrow prepuce behind the glans, with consequent stricture, inflamma- tion, and gangrene. Inflammation of the Corpora Cavernosa is produced by gon- orrhoea, injuries, fistulse, typhus fever, measles, and occurs in connection with inflammation of the connective tissue of the pelvis. It results in fibrous induration of portions of the cor- pora cavernosa; in rare cases, in abscesses or diffuse purulent infiltration ; sometimes in gangrene. Syphilitic Ulcers frequently occur on the glans penis and prepuce. The indurated chancre is formed either from an excoriation in which a pustule is formed, or from a little nodule. The pus- tule breaks and its walls are infiltrated with small, round cells. The nodule softens, breaks down, and forms an ulcer, of which the walls are infiltrated with cells in the same way. Phagedsenic ulcers occur, and may destroy a considerable part of the penis. Herpes of the prepuce ocGurs in the form of small vesicles, which may later become ulcers. Erysipelatous and furuncular inflammation sometimes in- volve the skin of the penis. NEW GROWTHS. Papilloma is found on the prepuce and glans penis. It oc- curs in the form of little warty growths, or of composite, cauli- flower masses, even as large as a fist. In either case, the struc-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 262 ture is the same—liypertrophied papillae covered with epithe- lium. Fibroma diffusum, or elephantiasis, occurs in the prepxice. It consists in a growth of fibrous tissue from the deep layers of the cutis, and forms tumors, which may reach an immense size. Cysts, Lipoma, Fibroma, Angioma, have all been observed in the skin of the penis. Fibrous Tissue is sometimes developed in the corpora caver- nosa, and may become calcified. Epithelioma is not infrequent in the prepuce and glans penis. It takes the form of nodules, which ulcerate, or of papillary outgrowths. The structure is that of epithelial cancer with large, flat cells. The growth may involve the entire skin of the penis, and invade the deeper tissues. The inguinal glands may be secondarily affected. Eberth reports a case in which a cylindrical-celled epithelioma of the rectum was followed by secondary nodules in the liver and in the corpus cavernosum of the penis. Carcinoma of the penis is not common. It begins in the glans penis or prepuce, in the form of nodules or of a diffuse infiltration. The growth goes on to involve the corpora caver- nosa ; the inguinal glands become affected, and metastatic tu- mors may be formed in the viscera. THE SCEOTITM. The skin of the scrotum is subject to the various forms of inflammation, which may affect any part of the integument. In very rare cases, tumors containing a considerable portion of the fffital skeleton have been found in the scrotum. Dermoid Cysts containing hair, bone, cartilage, etc., some- times occur. Lipoma and Fibroma arc sometimes found in the skin of the scrotum. Epithelioma, Chimney Sweep's Cancer, occurs in the form of small nodules in the skin, which ulcerate, and from which little fungous growths arise. Fibroma diffusum^ elephantiasis of the scrotum, fonns tumors263 THE TESTICLES. wliicli reacli an immense size. Tiie growth consists in a deve- lopment of connective tissue from tlie deep layers of the cutis, and is sometimes accompanied by dilatation of the lymphatic vessels. ■ THE TESTICLES. MALFORMATIONS. Absence of all the organs of generation is found in connec- tion with other extensive malformations. Absence of both testicles, either with or without absence of the epididyines, spermatic cord, and vesiculjB seminales, occiu's in rare cases. The scrotum is only indicated, or may contain the epididymes. The penis is small, and the individuals are small and poorly develojied. Instead of being entirely wanting, the testes may be imper- fectly developed. The individuals are weakly and etfeminate. Absence of one testicle, with healthy development of the other, is more frequent. The corresponding epididymis and cord may be absent or present. The spermatic cords and vesiculse seminales may be absent or imperfectly developed on one or both sides, while the testes are normal. Either one or both testicles may remain permanently in their foetal position, or may not descend into the scrotum for several years after birth. Their descent may even be delayed until the thirtieth year of life. This condition may depend on an arrest of development in the testes, or the gubernaculum testis; on adhesions produced by intra-uterine peritonitis ; on narrowing of the inguinal canal; on narrowing or shortening of the vaginal process of the peri- toneum ; or on abnormal size or position of the testicle. Usually the malformation is confined to one testicle, and then is more frequent on the left side. The testicle is found in the abdomen close to the mouth of the inguinal canal; in the inguinal canal, just below the exter- nal ring; beneath the skin in the perineum; or in the crui'al canal with the femoral vessels.264 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Sometimes, while the testis is retained, the epididymis and spermatic cord descend into the scrotum. The retained testis is usually not fully developed, or under- goes fatty or fibrous degeneration. It may become the seat of malignant new growths. Sometimes, however, although both testicles are retained, the individual is capable of procreation. In rare cases, the position of the testis may be changed, so that the epididymis and cord are in front. The existence of a supernumerary testis has been asserted in some cases, but is rather doubtful. In cases of abnormally early development, we sometimes find the testes in a young child as large as they should be in an adult. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the testicles is caused by injuries, exposure to cold, inflammation of the urethra, syphilis, and occurs with parotitis. The testes, epididj^mis, or tunica albuginea may be principally involved. Usually only one testicle is inflamed; sometimes both. The inflammation may extend to the vas deferens. The inflammation may be acute or chronic. Acute inflam- mation is more frequent in the epididymis and the tunica albu- ginea. The organ is congested and infiltrated with serum. From this condition, it may return to the normal, or small ab- scesses may form in the testis and epididymis, and destroy the greater part of the organ. In other cases, the epididymis re- mains swollen and indurated for a long time; in other cases, it becomes atrophied. Chronic inflammation occurs as a sequel of acute inflamma- tion, or as an original condition. It usually aflects the testis, but may extend to the epididymis and spermatic cord. The organ is slowly enlarged. The tubes of the testis are enlarged and filled with degenerated epithelium ; the interstitial fibrous tissue is increased in amount. The testis and epididymis are then found to be composed of a mass of fibrous tissue, imbedded in which are cheesy nodules—the remains of the degenerated tubules. In some cases, nothing but fibrous tissue is found ; inTHE TESTICLES. 265 others, there is calcification. Sometimes abscesses are formed, and these may perforate through the scrotum, and be accom- panied by a growth of granulation tissue which projects as a fungous mass. Syphilitic inflammation afiects principally the didymis. The tunica albuginea is thickened, and bands of fibrous tissue extend into the organ. In the new fibrous tissue, there may be gummy tumors. HYDROCELE. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis consists in an accumula- tion of sermn in the cavity of this membrane. It is usually confined to one side. It is caused by acute or chronic inflam- mation of the tunica vaginalis, by varicocele, or by general dropsy. The serum is found in small or in large quantities ; it is usually transparent, may contain cholesteriue, or be purulent, or be mixed with blood. When spermatic cysts of the epididy- mis open into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, the fluid con- tains spermatozoa. The tunica vaginalis remains unchanged, or is thickened, or contains plates of bone, or is covered with polypoid fibrous bodies, which fall off, and are fpund free in the cavity of the sac. There may be adhesions between the layers of the tunica vaginalis, and in this way the fiuid becomes sacculated. The testis is pushed downward and backward; it remains unchanged, or is atrophied. Hydrocele of the processus vaginalis consists in an accumu- lation of serum in the cavity of the vaginal process of the peritoneum, which remains open after the descent of the testicle. There are several different varieties. (a.) Tlie vaginal process is entirely open, and there is a free communication with the peritoneal cavity. The serum may originate in the cavity of the peritoneum, or of the vaginal pro- cess, and passes freely from one to the other. (b.) The processus vaginalis is closed in the inguinal canal, while its lower portion is filled with serum. (c.) The processus vaginalis is closed about the testis, and the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis is formed. The serum ac-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 266 cumulates in the upper part of the vaginal process, which com- miniicates with the peritoneal cavity. (d.) The vaginal process is closed in the inguinal canal and over the testis; the serum accumulates so as to form one or more sacs between these two points. Inguinal hernia may complicate this form of hydrocele. Hydrocele of the spermatic cord consists in a general oedema of the connective tissue of the cord, or in the development of circumscribed cysts in this connective tissue. A peculiar form of hydrocele is produced by the accumula- tion of serum in the sac of an inguinal hernia, from which the intestine has become retracted. HEMATOCELE. Hrematocele of the tunica vaginalis consists in an effusion of blood into the cavity of this sac. It may be produced by an injury, or may complicate a preexisting hydrocele. The effiised blood soon degenerates, and we find the sac filled with a brown- ish tiuid, or a thick, grumous mass. The tunica vaginalis is usually thickened. The testis remains normal, or is atrophied. Hematocele of the spermatic cord occurs in rare cases as a diffused infiltration of blood in the connective tissue of the cord. Or blood may be effused into a hydrocele of the cord. NEW GROWTHS. Fihrovia occurs in the form of dendritic or polypoid growths of the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. The tumors are of small size; their pedicles may atrophy, and the little bodies become free. They are usually found in connection with hy- drocele. Small fibrous tmnors have also been observed on the spermatic cord. Sometimes the entire testis is replaced by a mass of fibroTis tissue. Lipoma occurs as a lobulated growth arising from the con- nective tissue of the spermatic cord, fi'om the tunica albuginea of the testis, and from the tunica dartos of the scrotum. The tumors may reach a considerable size, are entirely composed of fat, or may be combined with myxoma or sarcoma.267 THE TESTICLES. Myxoma occurs in the testis as a soft gelatinous growth, which may break through the scrotum, and appear as a fungous mass. Michondroma occurs in the testis in the form of soft, hyaline tumors, which may attain a very large size. In some cases, we find great numbers of peculiar papillary cartilaginous out- growths partly contained in the enlarged lymphatic vessels of the tumor. Combinations of enchondroma with cysts, sarcoma, and carcinoma are common. Ttobercle usually begins in the epididymis, and may extend from there to the testis. More rarely, it begins in the testis. The growth begins in the form of small, gray granulations, which become cheesy, and fuse together into dry, yellow masses of considerable size. They are accompanied by a chronic in- flammation of the surrounding tissues, and the cheesy mass may perforate the scrotum, and project as a fungous growth. Tiie growth may also extend to the vas deferens, vesieulse seminales, and prostate. Cysts.—Single, simple cysts containing serum, and dermoid cysts containing epithelium, are sometimes found in the testis. Cysts containing spermatozoa are found in the epididymis ; they are probably formed by dilatation of the follicles of the Wolffian Body. Cysts containing serum alone are formed from the same follicles. Small serous cysts are also formed in the connective tissue beneath the tunica vaginalis of the testis and epididymis. Compound Cysts, Hydatid Tmnor, Cysto-sarcoma, Cysto- fibroma, Fibro-cystic Tumor, Cysto-adenoma.—These names are given to a growth in the testis which is not of very frequent occurrence. The organ is converted into a mass of cysts con- taining serum, or colloid matter. The walls of the cysts are lined with pavement or cylindrical epithelium ; their internal surfaces are smooth, or there are intra-cystic papillary growths. Sometimes the smaller cysts are filled with epitheliinn packed in concentric layers. The stroma is composed of fibrous tissue, with few or many connective tissue-cells ; sometimes of mucous tissue ; sometimes nodules of cartilage, and rarely striated mus- cle are found. Or there may be a combination with carcinoma. In the only example of this form of tumor which I have seen, the cysts were lined with cylindrical epithelium ; the stro-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 268 ma was composed of fibrous tissue, in Avhicli were a few minute nodules of cartilage, and, in a few places, long, narrow, striated cells looking like embryonic striped muscle. These tumors are usually considered benign ; but Billroth mentions a case in which the removal of the testicle Avas fol- lowed by the growth of a retro-peritoneal carcinoma. Sarcoma occurs both in the testis and epididymis. The tu- mors may attain a considerable size, are soft, with little stroma, or with a mucous basement substance; the cells mostly fusi- form, belonging to the medullary and myxo-sarcomata. In some cases, we find cysts and canals lined with epithelium, and containing fluid, colloid matter, or epithelial contents. The canals and cysts are probably formed from the spermatic tu- bules. Myoma.—A new growth of striped muscular fibres has been observed in four tumors of the testicle, in cases which are de- scribed as cystoid growths. The muscle was in the form of fusiform cells, with well-marked striation. I can add two other cases. In one, the tumor Avas removed by Dr. H. B, Sands, in May, 1868. It occurred in a middle-aged man, and was eighteen months in growing. The tumor weighed twenty-eight ounces, was confined to the epididymis, inclosed in the thick- ened albuginea, was soft and succxilent, and contained many cysts. It consisted of connective tissue-fibres; of large num- bers of long, fusiform cells; of long, fusiform, nucleated cells resembling embryonic striped muscle; of similar cells with marked striations ; of large, Avell-shaped, striped muscular fibres, inclosed in their sarcolenima; of large, oblong, and round striated bodies looking like portions of muscular fibres. In the second case, the tumor was removed by Dr. Wood. It was a compound cystic tumor. In a few places, there were numbers of long, narrow, striated cells. Carcinoma usually involves only one testicle. It is most frequently primary. It begins in the testis or the epididymis, rarely in the tunica vaginalis. The tumors are usually large, soft, succulent, often hsemorrhagic, or may be cystic. They are composed of a stroma, forming rounded spaces, in whicli are large, nucleated, rounded, or polygonal cells. The tunica albu-THE PROSTATE. 269 ginea expands with the growth and incloses it, even wlien of large size. More rarely the stroma is abundant, and the tumor is hard and scirrhous. Metastatic tumors of the inguinal and lumbar glands often occur. Syphilitic Tumors occur in connection with syphilitic orchi- tisii The albuginea is thickened, and bands of fibrous tissue extend into the organ. In this new fibrous tissue we find cheesy nodules, sometimes of considerable size. The epididy- mis is rarely involved. THE PEOSTATE. HYPERTKOPHY AND ATROPHY. Hypertrophy of the prostate is a frequent senile change; it is general or partial. In general hypertrophy, the entire organ is enlarged, and may reach the size of a man's fist. The enlargement is symmetri- cal, or is most marked in one half or in the so-called middle lobe. The organ is hard and dense, or soft, or alveolar, contain- ing numerous small openings, from which a turbid fluid exudes. These different appearances depend upon the character of the hypertrophy. The muscular and fibrous tissue alone may be increased, or at the same time the glandular tissue, or the glandular tissue alone. In partial hypertrophy, we find circumscribed nodules of muscular tissue, or of muscular and glandular tissue. They are usually situated at the periphery of the organ, and project into the bladder. Tliey may become detached from the pros- tate, and are found as small, movable tumors beneath the mucous membrane of the bladder. Both forms of hypertrophy frequently produce retention of urine and changes in the bladder. Atrophy of the prostate is sometimes seen in connection with atrophy of the testicles, and with castration. Sometimes the ducts of the glandular portion are enlarged, or there may be fibrous degeneration of the organ.270 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the prostate is caused hj gonorrhoea, by in- juries, or, more rarely, is idiopathic. It may run an acute or chronic course. The gland may after a time return to its nor- mal condition, or is gradually converted into a mass of fibrous tissue filled with abscesses. The abscesses may perforate into the bladder, urethra, vesiculse seminales, rectum, or peritoneum. Or the inflammation may extend to the connective tissue of the scrotum, or beneath the pelvic peritoneum. The pus may be- come thickened and cheesy, or even calcified. NEW GROWTHS. Myoma has been already described under the head of partial hypertrophies of the prostate. Tuhercle is found in connection with tubercles in the testicles, vesiculse seminales, and kidneys. Miliary granulations become aggregated in large numbers, and form, after degenerating, large cheesy masses. Concretions are formed in the ducts of the glands. The smallest are rounded, colloid, lamellated bodies, wliicli are stained red by iodine. The larger are hard, yellow or blackish, rounded or faceted, and contain phosphate or oxalate of lime. Carcinoma of the prostate is not frecpient. It is usually primary. It is soft and medullary, and may involve the sur- rounding soft parts. THE MAMMA. The mammae are racemose glands, imbedded in connective tissue and fat. During cliildhood, they remain small and unde- veloped. At puberty, the glands become larger and the acini are increased in size and numljer. The acini are filled witli small, rounded, epithelial cells; the ducts are lined with cylin- drical epithelium. During pregnancy, there is a further in- crease in the size and niunber of the acini, and at full term, the epithelium becomes filled with fat globules. The milk isTHE MAMMA. 271 formed by an emulsion of these fat globules in serum. In old age, after the menses have ceased, the epithelium atrophies, the acini collapse, and finally we find nothing but a mass of fibrous tissue and fat, in which are imbedded the ducts of the gland. In the male, the mammary gland remains undeveloped through life. It consists of a few ducts and acini imbedded in connective tissue. MALFORMATIONS. Absence of both mammse is only found in connection with other marked malformations. Absence of one mamma has been observed in a few cases, with and without defective development of the corresponding half of the thorax. Absence of one or of both nipples is more common. Arrest of development of the mammse is found in connec- tion with arrest of development of the organs of generation, and, to a less degree, alone. Supernumerary mammte and nipples have been observed in a number of cases. The glands may all secrete milk during lactation. Too early development of the mammae is sometimes found in young children in connection with abnormal development of the organs of generation. LNFLAMMATION. The nipple, during lactation, is often the seat of cracks or fissures of the skin, sometimes complicated with inflammation. Syphilitic ulcers may occur on the nipple in the form of primary chancres and secondary mucous patches. Chronic eczema is found affecting the skin of the nipple. Erysipelatous inflammation of the skin over the mamma may have its origin in the fissures of the nipples, or in un- known causes. Acute inflammation of the mamma occurs during lactation. The connective tissue beneath the gland, between tlie glandPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 272 and tlie skin, and surrounding the gland, may be the seat of the inflainniation. If the connective tissue-stroma of the ffland is the seat of inflammation, usually only circumscribed nodules are aflfected. The inflammation may resolve, or goes on to suppuration. The abscesses usually open through the skin and soon cicatrize. Sometimes, however, the abscesses become chronic, with induration and formation of granulation tissue about them. Rarely, they perforate into the pleiu-al cavity. In new-born children, we sometimes find a painful swelling and redness of one or both breasts, with a secretion of thin milk. This inflammation usually subsides in a few days, but may go on to suppuration. At the time of puberty, a subacute form of mastitis may occur in both sexes. The gland is somewhat swollen, hard, and painful; rarely, there is a small secretion of milk. In women, after puberty, subacute mastitis sometimes occurs unconnected with lactation. There are circumscribed, indu- rated nodules in the gland, which may resolve without marked symptoms, or may slowly suppurate. Chronic inflammation and the formation of cold abscesses are rare. They occur in married and unmarried women after puberty. We find circumscribed, hard nodules in the breast, which may remain unchanged for years. Or they may break down slowly into abscesses, containing a thin pus with cheesy fragments. Several such abscesses may communicate by sinu- ses. They may become surrounded by a thick wall of fibrous tissue. H.-EMORRHAGE. In young women, who suff"er from amenorrlioea and dysme- norrhoja, small hsemorrhages sometimes occur on and in the mamma, at the time of the menses. Contusions of the breast may produce extravasations of blood in the connective tissue. The blood may be afterward ab- sorbed, or may remain as a hard mass surrounded by dense connective tissue.273 THE MAMMA. NEW GROWTHS. General Hypertrophy of the mamma is a rare lesion. It may alFect one or both breasts. It usually is foimd in young, unmarried women; sometimes, however, in advanced life. The glandular acini are increased in number and size. The inter- stitial connective tissue is also much increased. Cysts are formed by dilatation of the ducts and acini of the mammary gland; as new growths in the connective tissue ; and as an accompaniment of some forms of new growth. Cysts containing milk are formed, during lactation, by the dilatation of the glandular acini and ducts. In the latter case, they may reach an enormous size, and contain several pounds of fluid. The milk may become mixed with serum, mucus, blood, colloid matter, and coagulated fat. The acini may be dilated so as to form a great number of little cysts, containing serum or mucus. Minute examination shows the change beginning in the terminal acini as a simple dilatation. The epithelium is at first preserved. This condi- tion is found in young women, with a too rapid development of the gland; in old women, with its atrophy. Dilatation of the glandular ducts produces cysts of larger size. These cysts may be simple, or incompletely divided by septa, or there may be papillary ingrowths from their walls. Cysts are formed in the stroma of the gland, independently of the glandular tissue. Their walls are lined with pavement epithelium, their contents are serous or colloid fluid. Their size varies from that of a pea to that of a man's fist. They are found in small and large numbers. There may be haemorrhages into their cavities, inflammation and calcification of their walls, and papillary ingrowths. Fibroma Diffusum.—This process may be classed as a new growth or as a chronic inflammation. There is an increase of the flbrous stroma throughout the gland, the glandular tissue remaining intact. Afterward, the new connective tissue shrinks and becomes harder, the glandular tissue is atrophied, and there may be cystic dilatation of the acini and ducts. The entire process is often accompanied by a great deal of pain, 18POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 274 and the atrophied condition is difficult to distinguish from atro- phied carcinoma. Sometimes the growth of connective tissue, instead of being general, is contined to one or more circum- scribed portions of the gland. "We then find one or more hard nodules, which may become atrophied and indurated in the same way as the diffuse growth. Fibroma Nodosum.—Small, circumscribed, fibrous tumors in the stroma of the gland are described, but appear to be rare. Fibroma Papillare occurs in the form of intra-canalicular growths. Little papillary fibrous growths are formed on the walls of the milk-ducts. As the growths increase, the ducts become dilated, and we find a solid tumor divided up by clefts and fissures in every direction. The clefts are lined with pave- ment or cylindrical epithelium. Lipoma usually occurs as a diffused increase of fat about the gland. In this way the mamma may appear to be enormously hypertrophied. More rarely, we find smaller, circumscribed lipomata in the stroma of the gland. Billroth describes a large lipoma, which grew behind the pectoralis muscle, and pushed the mamma downward and forward. Enchondroma of the mamma is very rare. A single case is described by Astley Cooper, and another by J. Miiller. A few other cases are described of enchondroma combined with carci- noma. Adenoma.—A new growth of glandular tissue, resembling that of the mammary gland, sometimes occurs. Rarely, the glandular tissue forms the principal part of the new growth, which is then soft and succulent. More frequently, there is at the same time a growth of connective tissue. The tumor is then firm, but succulent, circumscribed, and movable, (Paget's Mammary Glandular Tumor.) The connective tissue between the new glandular follicles may be rich in cells, and pass gra- dually into the structure of a sarcoma. For this reason, Yir- chow regards the entire growth rather as a sarcoma with per- sistence of the normal glandular tissue, than as a new growth of glandular tissue. It sometimes happens that in a breast, which has been for some time the seat of a hard adenoma, a carcinoma is afterward developed as a separate tumor.275 THE MAMMA. Cystoid Adenoma / Cysto-Sarcoma / Adenoid Sarcoma.— These names are given to a group of tumors of the breast which have a very complex structure. They usually occur in middle-aged women; grow at first slowly, afterward rapidly, and may reach an immense size. In some cases, there is no re- currence after extirpation ; in others, there are local recur- rences, and even metastatic tumors. When these tumors are cut open, they look like a solid mass separated by clefts and fissures, and in which are cysts. The solid tissue appears as a uniform mass, or as a loose tissue, or as if made up of tufts. It is white and hard, or pinkish and soft, or grayish and colloid. The general arrangement is that of dilated ducts filled with intra-canalicular growths. The intra-canalicular growths are tufts composed of connective tissue fibres and cells, containing blood-vessels, and covered with epithelium. Or they may con- tain glandular follicles. The extra-canalicular part of the growth consists of connective tissue-fibres, and cells, and of glandular follicles. The follicles are in variable numbers; they resemble those of the normal gland, or are larger, and lined with cylindrical epithelium. They are regarded as part of the normal gland, or as a new growth, by different authors. The connective tissue may be nearly pure fibrous tissue, or may con- tain so many cells as to merit the name of a sarcoma, or may be partly mucous tissue. In different tumors, therefore, or in different parts of the same tumor, we find a preponderance ot fibrous, cellular, mucous, or glandular tissue. The prognosis seems to depend upon the relative amount of the connective tissue-cells, and the consequent more or less sarcomatous nature of the growth. Myxoma occurs in the form of polypoid, pendulous tumors, covered with skin, and hanging down from the breast. It is also found as a more diffused growth in the stroma of the breast. The glandular tissue may atrophy and disappear in the new growth or the milk-ducts may be dilated, or there may be intra-canalicular growths of mucous tissue. In the latter case the tumors may resemble the adenoid sarcomata. Sarcoma occurs in the mamma in the form of circumscribed nodules, or ot larger growths replacing the entire breast. The^POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 276 tumors may be composed of round, stellate, or fusiform cells, or of pigmented cells. The basement substance may be fibrous and abundant, or scanty, or may be mucous tissue. The glan- dular tissue may disappear, or the milk-ducts may be dilated, or there may be intra-canalicular sarcomatous growths. These tumors are more frequent in young than in old women. We find, therefore, that there are fibrous, miicous, and sarco- matous tumors, in which the milk-ducts are dilated, and there are intra-canalicular growths. The gross appearance of these tumors may be the same, although their structure and charac- ters are different. Carcinoma.—Epithelial cancer, of the flat-celled form, is of rare occurrence in the mamma. It beg-ins in the skin covering; the gland, or in the nipple. Billroth describes a single case in which the glandular acini were enlarged and filled Avith hyper- trophied epithelial cells. Forster says that epithelial cancer with cvliiidrical cells is of not infrequent occurrence, and has the same course as ordinary cancer. True Carcinoma usually occurs as scirrhus, medullary, or atrophic carcinoma, sometimes in the alveolar or colloid foi'm. It is, generally speaking, a disease of advanced life. The tu- mor begins as a small, hard nodule, which increases sloAvly or quickly, and becomes fused with secondary nodules. If it grows rapidly, it may attain a considerable size, the skin is in- volved, and ulceration takes place. If the growth is slower, itlie tumor is smaller and harder, and ulceration may not take place for a long time. In some cases, the growth is very slow, there is great retraction of the new fibrous tissue, and the en- tire mamma is converted into a small, hard mass, which hardly looks like a tumor. The tumors are made up of a connective tissue stroma and ot epithelial cells. The stroma, is composed of connective tissue- fibres and cells in varying proportion. It is usually well mark- ed, sometimes forms almost the entire tumor, occasionally is very scanty. The epithelial cells are of moderate size and re- gular shapes, or large and malformed. They contain one or more nuclei. These cells are arranged in long, tubular follicles.277 THE MAMMA. or in irregular spaces; or are found in large numbers, appa- rently from tlie fusion of several follicles. Whether the new growth of cells begins in the normal glandular follicles, in the connective tissue, or in the lymphatic vessels, is still an open question. If the cells are numerous and the stroma scanty, the growth is called a medullary cancer; if the cells are few and the stroma abundant, a scirrhus cancer; if there are hardly any cells and a dense, hard, retracted stroma, an atrophic cancer. All these forms are accompanied by secondary and metasta- tic growths. The axillary glands, the skin of the thorax, the liver, the bones, and nearly all the viscera may be the seats of metastatic tumors. Alveolar or colloid carcinoma is rare. It occurs in the form of a circumscribed nodule, with the usual structure. PAEASITES. EcliinocoGci contained in hydatid cysts have been seen in a few cases in the mamma. THE MALE MAMMA. There may be an abnormal number of mamma. In young children, the mammae may be swollen and inflamed as in young girls. Cases are recorded in which adult males possessed large mammse, which secreted milk. Hypertrophy of the breasts from an increase of connective tissue, or of fat, sometimes occurs. Cysts from the dilatation of the glandular ducts are not very infrequent. Cysto-Sarcoma, Sarcoma, and Carcinoma have been observed in a few cases.THE BOKES. MALFORMATIONS. (1.) Defective Formation exhibits itself in the absence and imperfect development of the bones, as in acephalous mon- sters, in microcephalia, in absence or smallness of the extremi- ties. (2.) Excessive Formation is seen in the abnormal size or ab- normal number of the bones. (3.) The formation of Fissures is seen in cleft palate, hemi- crania, spina bifida, etc. (4.) The fusion of bones is seen in the extremities and cra- nium. (5.) The ossification of the epiphyses may take place abnor- mally early or abnormally late. CHANGES IN SIZE. (1.) Hypertrophy.—The bones are enlarged in all their dimen- sions, and retain their normal texture. This condition may ob- tain in all the bones, as with giants ; may be a congenital ab- normality of a single bone, especially of the fingers and toes ; may be an acquired condition, as in the bones of a liydrocephalic skull after the hydrocephalic process is at a stand-still. The bone may be increased in all its dimensions or simply elongated. Chronic inflammation of the bone or adjoining soft parts ; re- lease of a bone from physiological pressure, as in luxations; the effort to compensate for the destruction of an adjoining bone, may all produce hypertrophy. (2.) Hyperostosis.—The bones retain their normal length or breadth, but are increased in thickness. Tlie change may in- volve an entire bone, or only a circumscribed portion of it. In the latter case, the growth has more the character of a tumor.279 THE BONES. The periosteum is thickened, the surface of the bone is rough, irregular, often covered with osteophytes of various forms. The walls of the bone are increased in thickness, and often in density; the medullary remains normal, or is narrowed, or even obliterated. This change is most frequently found in the long bones and in the cranial bones. It is produced by chronic periostitis, by osteitis, rickets, and sometimes appears to be an idiopathic process. (3.) Sclerosis consists in a change in the texture of the bone tissue by which it becomes denser and heavier. The process by which this is caused is an osteo-myelitis with the production ot osteoid connective tissue, in which the salts of lime are after- ward deposited. Most frequently there is at the same time a periostitis with production of new bone on the surface. Thus in the cranium the diploe may become filled with compact bone, while there is also an increase of bone beneath the periosteum, and in this way all the cranial bones may become enormously thickened. The sclerosis may be idiopathic, or be caused by chronic in- fl.ammation of the joints or other parts near the affected bone, or be the termination of a rarefying osteitis. (4.) Osteoporosis.—This change consists in an increase of the size of a bone with diminution of its density. The compact tissue of the walls of the bone is converted into a spongy, can- cellous structure filled with red medulla. The bone may seem to consist of a system of concentric lamellae, the medullary canal may be filled up with cancellous bone, or remain open ; the change may affect most of a bone or only a circumscribed portion of it. This condition is produced by inflammatory changes. ATKOPHY. 1. The atrophy may be due to defective development of the bones, and, therefore, occurs in young subjects. (a.) It may be congenital, and affect all the bones, as in dwarfs, cretins, etc.280 POST-MOBTEM EXAMINATIONS. (b.) It may be the result of rickets, and then takes the form of a shortening of the long bones. (c.) It is produced by an abnormally early ossification of the epiphyses and the interosseous cartilages. Thus diseases of the joints (in children) producing anchylosis and ossification of the epiphyses ; ossification of the sacro-iliac inter-articular cartilage; ossification of the cranial sutures, etc.—all produce an arrest of development in the bones alFected. (d.) It may be produced by any cause which diminishes the nutrition of the bone, as paralysis of the muscles, or joint dis- eases, which x'ender the limb useless. 2. The atrophy afiects bones which are already fully deve- loped, and occurs in adults. We may distinguish two forms of atrophy : an eccentric and a concentric. In the eccentric form, the bone retains its size and normal contour; but the medullary cavity is enlarged, and the walls of WB bone become thinner and thinner, until they may be not thicker than a sheet of paper. In the concentric form, the bones become smaller from the outside; but in the long bones, only the thickness and not the length is diminished. In the ec- centric form, the space which is left by the atrophying bone is usually filled up with fat. "Want of use and old age are the usual causes of atrophy of the bones. A circumscribed atrophy of the bone is produced by any con- tinuous pressure, usually by tumors. In this way, the wall of a bone may be perforated into its medullary cavity, and even thi'ough the opposite wall. The atrophy may be accompanied by sclerosis of the bone aroimd the perforation. FRACTUKES, DISLOCATIONS, AND WOUNDS. These conditions are so fully described in works on surgery and surgical pathology that it is needless to describe them here.THE BONES. 281 INFLAMMATION. Periostitis.—"We may distinguish five varieties of inflammar tion of the periosteum. (1.) Sinvple Periostitis.—In this form, we find the periosteum thickened, succulent, congested, infiltrated with lymphoid cells, its fibres swollen. It is less adherent to the bone, and more ad- herent to the surrounding soft parts. The increase of cells takes place principally in the inner layers of the periosteum. This variety of inflammation may terminate in degeneration of the new elements, and the periosteum returns to its normal con- dition, or it may be only the first stage of one of the other varieties. (2.) Suppurative Periostitis may begin as a simple or as a purulent inflammation. The pus is formed in the inner layers of the periosteum, and between it and the bone. The outer layers of the periosteum may resist for a long time the suppu- rative process. The accumulation of pus dissects up the mem- brane from the bone, and leaves the latter bare. The pus thiis formed may remain in this position for a long time, may be ab- sorbed, may become dry and cheesy, or may burst through the periosteum, and form abscesses in the soft parts. The bone is separated from its nutrient membrane. It may remain un- changed, but more frequently necroses, or inflammation of the bone itself, may be set up. Such a periostitis may run an acute or a chronic course. Sometimes suppurative periostitis takes on a very malignant character. Pus is formed not only beneath the periosteum, but in it, forming abscesses filled with foul pus. The periosteum breaks down into a gangrenous, stinking mass, and the same change may affect the neighboring soft parts. The medulla may take part in the process, and break down into a purulent, gangrenous mass. Haemorrhages may complicate the process. The lymphatic glands are enlarged and swollen ; abscesses form in different parts of the body, and the patient dies with the symptoms of septicaemia. (3.) Fibrous Periostitis is a very slow, chronic inflammation, producing thickening of the periosteum. It is produced by ne- crosis, chronic arthritis, chronic ulcers of the leg, etc.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 282 (4.) Ossifying Periostitis results in the formation of new bone irom the inner layers of the periosteum. The bone thus formed is, at first, of very variable shape. The osteophytes, as they ai'e called, form a thin, velvet-like, villous layer; or they are little spiculag; or they form larger, rounded masses; or they are a thick, uniform layer, extending over a large part of a bone. They are at first very loosely connected with the bone. The new bone has at first a loose, spongy character. It is formed ol thin plates of bone inclosing large cavities filled with med\;lla. Layers of compact bone tissue are formed from the medulla on the sides of the original plates, and thus the medullary cavities are gradually filled up with bone. The new bone may thus become as compact, or even denser, than normal bone. The hyperostoses and exostoses thus formed may remain indefinite- ly, or they may gradually become smaller and disappear. (5.) Syphilitic Periostitis.—The syphilitic diathesis may give rise to simple, purulent, fibrous, and ossifying periostitis. In addition, we frequently find developed in the periosteum gum- my tumors. These are rounded masses, sometimes gelatinous, sometimes firmer, composed of round and fusiform cells. They may disappear, may undergo cheesy degeneration, may be con- verted into fibrous tissue, or may suppurate. Tlie bone beneath them may be unaltered or become diseased. OSTEOMYELITIS. In most of the inflammatory processes which afi'ect the bones, the medulla has an important share; so that many conditions described as osteitis are really osteomyelitis. It is customary, however, to reserve the latter name for those cases in which a large part of the medulla is inflamed, and the bone tissue is little or not at all involved. Using the word in this sense, we may distinguish an idio- pathic and a traumatic osteomyelitis. (1.) Idiopathic osteomyelitis generally occurs in persons un- der twenty years of age. It usually affects one of the long bones, more rarely several bones at once. The disease begins with a difluse hyperaemia and serous infil-THE BONES. 283 tration of a considerable portion of the raednlla of one of the long bones. The inflammation begins in the shaft, and soon extends to the cancellous tissue of one or both of the epiphyses. The hypersemia is succeeded by a purulent infiltration, which does not usually, however, soften or form abscesses. The peri- osteum generally becomes inflamed, and abscesses are formed beneath it, in it, and in the surrounding soft parts. This, com- bined with the osteomyelitis, often produces necrosis of small or large portions of the bone, or even of an entire bone. In other cases, the periosteum is thickened, and the shaft of the bone is thickened and sclerosed. The purulent infiltration of the medulla, after a time, dilates the medullary cavity, and may finally break through the wall of the bone. The joints in which the diseased bone terminates are almost always secondarily inflamed. There may be only a serous or a purulent exudation ; or the osteomyelitis may extend to the ar- ticular end of the bone and the cartilage, and produce severe and destructive inflammation. In young persons, the epiphyses very frequently become separated from the shaft by the destruction of the cartilage which binds them together. In bad cases, the medulla becomes broken down and gan- grenous ; the joints are soon involved ; large portions of the bone necrose; the periosteum and surrounding soft parts become gan- grenous ; the veins become filled with thrombi; and pyaemic in- farctions are formed in difierent parts of the body. (2.) Traumatic osteomyelitis is produced by contusions, frac- tures, wounds, and crushing of bones, and by amputations. Its character is the same as that of the spontaneous variety. Osteitis.—The periosteum, the medulla, and the blood-ves- sels are essential component parts of a bone. They are the parts actively engaged in all inflammations of bone, while the bone-tissue proper, composed of cells imbedded in a calcareous basement substance, has but a passive share in the process. It is, therefore, more a matter of convenience than strictly proper to speak of periostitis, osteomyelitis, and osteitis, and the divi- sion is entirely arbitrary. Nevertheless, it is very convenientPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 284 to separate these three varieties according as the periosteum, the medulla, and the liard bone are the parts principally involved. We may distinguish several dilferent varieties of osteitis. (1.) Rarefying osteitis occurs both as an idiopathic disease and in connection with caries, necrosis, fractures, etc. In cancellous bone-tissue, the medulla becomes reddish, gela- tinous, or like granulation tissue, and is thickly infiltrated with lymphoid cells. The bony septa become thinner, and disappear to a greater or less extent, so that in extreme cases, instead of cancellous bones, we find only a mass of granulation-tissue. Wlien the disease occurs in the articular extremity of a bone, the granulating medulla may send little off-shoots through the articular cartilage. Tlie cartilage will then be perforated with numerous little holes, which may afterward become fused together, and destructive inflammation of the joint follow. Tlie walls of the shafts of the long bones may by this form of inflammation be converted into a loose, spongy bone-tissue. If, at the same time, an ossifying periostitis goes on, the bone is thickened but spongy ; or sometimes there are concentric layers of compact bone separated by cancellous bone. In these cases, there is a production of granulation-tissue in the medullary cavities and the Haversian canals; little projections of this granulation tissue pressing against the adjoining bone cause its absorption in small spaces or lacunaj; these lacunae grow larger, fuse together, and the compact bone is thus filled with cavities, or entirely destroyed. Virchow supposed that the cavities were formed by fatty degeneration, cell-prolifera- tion, or enlargement of the bone-cells. These cells may indeed be found somewhat changed, but the active processes are carried on by the medulla and the tissue in the Haversian canals. Volkmann states that there may also be a formation of new blood-vessels in the osseous tissue. In the inflammation and granulation of the surfaces of wounded bone, the process is the same, and often leaves a cir- cumscribed depression on the sm-face. Rarefying osteitis may terminate in osteo-sclerosis, in sup- puration, and in caries.THE BOKES. 285 (2.) Condensing osteitis, or osteo-sclerosis, is, properly speak - ing, an osteomyelitis. The medulla is replaced by red grann- lation-tissne, whicli becomes transformed into layers of com- pact bone on the inner surface of the preexisting bone. The cancellous bone may thus be changed into compact bone, and the medullary canals of long bones may be completely filled up. There is very frequently at the same time an ossifying periostitis. The process is sometimes idiopathic, more frequently excited by some chronic irritation of the neighboring bone, or soft parts, or is the termination of rarefying osteitis. (3.) Carious osteitis is a variety which has been frequently called tuberculosis of the bones. It occurs principally in the cancellous ends of the bones, and in the bodies of the vertebrae. There is a chronic osteitis with sclerosis, or rarefaction, fol- lowed by cheesy degeneration of the inflamed medulla, or of pus, if any be formed. We then find dry, yellow, cheesy masses in the diploe. Tlie process may terminate in necrosis, or in caries. (4.) SyjpliilltiG osteitis.—The syphilitic poison may excite one of the varieties of osteitis already mentioned, or it may produce the so-called gummy growths. An osteitis gummosa begins as a periostitis, most frequently ot the cranial bones. The periosteum is thickened and infiltrated with cells; the vessels which extend from the periosteum into the bone are surrounded with a new growth of small cells. At this stage, if we strip off the periosteum, we drag with it the vessels surrounded by the new cell-growth, leaving the bone beneath with numerous small perforations extending inward. As the disease goes on, the cell-growth around the vessels, ajid the con- sequent holes in the bone, become larger and larger, and fuse together, until a circumscribed portion of bone is replaced with cellular tissue. Then cheesy degeneration sets in, with absorp- tion and production of connective tissue. In this way, Ave find in the bones dry, eroded depressions or perforations, containing more or less cheesy matter, while the skin over them is un- changed. In other cases, suppurative inflammation accompa- nies the gummy formation, and involves the skin. The pro-286 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. cess may only involve a few small spots, or may spread over a large part of a bone. The portions of bone sm-rounded by the diseased portions may then necrose. (5.) Suppurative osteitis, abscess of hone.—This process occurs usually in the ends of the long bones. It begins with a rarefying osteitis. The medulla goes on to actual suppuration, the bone-tissue is destroyed, and a circumscribed cavity is formed in the bone, filled with pus, and lined with granulation- tissue. Less frequently, abscesses are formed in the shaft of a long bone, by a circumscribed suppuration of tbe medulla. These abscesses usually occur in old people. They last for many years, have little tendency to perforation, may gradually enlarge, and be accompanied by an ossifying periostitis, so tliat the bone is expanded. Very rarely acute suppurative osteitis, with rapid formation of an abscess, and perforation, has been observed. CARIES. The word caries is used by many as synonymous witli clu'onic osteitis. It is convenient, however, to limit the term to one variety of osteitis—the ulcerative. In this sense, caries of bone corresponds to ulceration of the soft parts. One of the simplest forms of caries is produced by chronic, suppurative arthritis. The articular cartilages are destroyed, the bone beneath undergoes molecular destruction, so that the cancellous diploe are laid open. The medulla then takes on an ulcerative inflammation. In other cases, we find a rarefying osteitis, with a destruc- tive, ulcerative character. At some portion of the inflamed bone, either on its surface or in its cancellous tissue, the inflam- ed medulla suppurates, and is destroyed with the corresponding portions of bone. Sometimes this process is combined with cheesy degeneration of the products of inflammation, so that dry, yellow masses are found in the dij)loe, and replacing the destroyed bone. The minute changes are very similar to those in chronic os-287 THE BONES. teitis. The bone is destroyed both by the pressure of the gran- ulating medulla and by a molecular destruction, forming irre- gular cavities, in which a sort of chalky dust can often be found. The basement substance of the bone may become gran- ular, or separate into flakes, or give up its calcareous salts, and become fibro-cartilaginous. The bone-cells may be enlarged, fatty, or contain an increased number of nuclei. NECROSIS. By necrosis we understand the death of a larger or smaller portion of bone. This condition is induced by causes which deprive the bone of its proper vascular supply from the perios- teum and medulla. Suppurative periostitis, osteomyelitis, and osteitis, traumatic separation of the periosteum, ulcers of neigh- boring soft parts, emboli, and diseases like typhus, which di- minish the vitality, may cause necrosis. When a portion of bone has died, an inflammation is set up at the dividing line between the dead and living bone. This inflammation has the characters of a rarefying osteitis, and finally separates the dead from the living bone. The dead bone, or sequestrum, may remain smooth and unaltered, or it may be eroded by the pressure of surrounding granulations. Necrosis may involve the superficial layers, or the entire thickness of the wall of a long bone; or only the spongy tissue and inner layers of the wall; or an entire bone; or a number of diiferent portions of the same bone. The death and separation of the bone is very soon followed by the growth of new bone to repair the loss. The periosteum, the medulla, and the surrounding soft tissues may all take part in this new growth. The new bone is usually irregular, rough, perforated with openings, and incloses and takes the place of the sequestrum more or less completely, RICKETS. Rickets is a disease of the bones aifecting their growth, which prevents the proper ossification of the growing bone. The disease usually occurs during the first two years of life.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 288 but may be congenital, or may occur as late as the twelftli year. The physiological growth of bones depends upon three con- ditions. They grow in length by the production of bone be- tween the epiphysis and diaphysis ; in thickness, by the growth of bone from the inner layers of the periosteum. At the same time, tlie medullary canal is enlarged in proportion to the growth of the bone by the disappearance of the inner layers of bone. In rickets, these three conditions are abnoi'mally affected. The cell-growth, which precedes ossification, goes on with in- creased rapidity and exiiberance both between the epiphyses and diaphyses, and beneath the periosteum, while the actual ossification is imperfect or entirely wanting. At the same time, the dilatation of the medullary cavity goes on irregularly, and to an excessive degree. The increased cell-growth between the epiphyses and dia- physes produces the peculiar knobby swellings at the ends of the bones which are characteristic of I'ickets. At the same time, the medullary cavity increases rapidly in size, the inner layers of the wall of the bone become spongy, the medulla may be congested, its fat disappears, fusiform cells and connec- tive tissue are developed along the course of the muscles, and the process may take on the character of an osteitis. The result of these processes is, that the bones lose their solid- ity, and can no longer resist the traction of the muscles or out- side pressure. The epiphyses may be displaced or bent, espe- cially in the ribs, less frequently in the long bones. The long bones and the pelvic bones may be bent in a variety of forms. Incomplete fractures are not infrequent; complete fractures do not usually occur until the later stages of the disease, when the bones become solid again. In the head, the cranium is unna- turally large for the size of the face. The fontanelles ;md su- tures remain open, tlie bones are soft, porous, liyperfemic, and, at their edges, there are rough bony growths beneath the peri- cranium. Sometimes, especially in the occipital bone, tliere are rounded defects in the bone, filled only with a fibrous mem- brane.289 THE BONES. After a time, the rachitic process may stop, and the bones take on a more normal character. The porous bone tissue becomes compact and even unnaturally dense, the swellings at the epiphyses disappear, many of the deformed bones may be- come of a normal shape. In severe cases, however, the defor- mities continue through life; especially is there a cessation of the growth of the bones in their long axis, so that the persons affected are dwarfed. The disease may have an acute or a chronic character. The acute form begins usually during the first six months of life. The children sulfer from vomiting, diarrhoea, profuse sweating, chronic bronchitis and pneumonia, general anaemia, and wasting. They either die, or the rachitic process is gradu- ally developed. The chronic form is seen in older children, and often in those apparently healthy. The changes in the bones may take place without any constitutional symptoms, though there is often catarrhal bronchitis, pneumonia, and anaemia. OSTEOMALACIA. This disease consists in a softening of the adult bones. It occurs in adults, most frequently in females during pregnancy and after parturition ; rarely in adult males and females without known cause. In puerperal women, the disease begins in the pelvic bones; in other cases, in the vertebrae and walls of the thorax. In all cases, it has a tendency to involve a large part of the entire skeleton. The disease begins with a simple disappearance of the cal- careous matter around the Haversian canals and medullary cavities, leaving the bone-cartilage and bone-cells intact. Af- terward this osteoid tissue breaks down, and is replaced by the exuberant medulla. When the disease is fully developed, we find the medulla intensely congested, the fat-cells disappear, the lymphoid cells are increased enormously in number. The congestion may then diminish, and the medulla looks like a pale jelly. The compact bone becomes soft and spongy, the walls of the diploe become thinner and thinner until, in the worst cases, there is 19290 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. nothing left but a layer of periosteum and thin cartilage, filled with a soft mass of medulla, connective tissue, blood-vessels, and serum. In consequence of these changes, the bones become bent, completely and incompletely fractured, contracted and atro- phied. NEW GKOWTHS. Osteoma.—The bony tumors which grow from the bones are called exostoses or enostoses, according to their origin from the surface or interior of the bone. They may contain all the constituents of a nonnal bone: bone, medulla, vessels, periosteum, and cartilage. The new bone may be compact and like ivory, or spongy, or contain large cavities filled with medulla. The shape of the exostoses varies very miich. They may be in the form of sharp, narrow spiculge and processes ; they may have a polj^oid shape, with a narrow pedicle; they may form rounded tumors, with a broad base; or they may have more the character of an hyperostosis. The bone beneath them may be normal, or sclerosed, or rare- fied, or the medullary cavity of the bone may communicate with that of the exostosis. Exostoses are usually developed from the periosteum, some- times in the insertions of the tendons and muscles. A peculiar form is that called exostosis cartilaginea. It con- sists of a bony tumor covered with a thin layer of cartilage. Sometimes these growths are covered with a synovial sac, which may communicate with the cavity of a joint. They have a tendency to enlarge, and grow, lilce the long bones, from the inner layer of the cartilage which covers them. Enostoses are developed in the interior of bone from the medulla. They may increase in size until they project like an exostosis. Their most frequent situation is the bones of the cranium and face. Exostoses may be single or multiple, and may occur at all ages, even during intra-uterine life. Emhondroma.—Tumors composed of cartilage usually grow from the interior of the boues.THE BONES. 291 They are composed of cartilage with a hyaline, mucous, or fibrous basement substance, or with all these varieties combined in the same tumor. They are usually divided into lobules by bands of fibroiis tissue, and this fibrous tissue may form a large part of the tumor. They may calcify, ossify, and exhibit a great variety of transitions and combinations, with osteoma, myxoma, lipoma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. They occur most frequently in the small bones of the hand and foot, in diminishing frequency in the tibia, femur, and humerus, lower jaw, pelvic bones, scapula, ribs, upper jaw, and fibula. They are most common in young persons, and may be con- genital. They may be single or multiple. Their prognosis depends upon their exact anatomy. If they are purely cartilaginous, metastases are rare, but local recur- rences sometimes happen. If they are combined with myxoma, sarcoma, or carcinoma, the prognosis becomes worse, and may be very bad indeed. Under the name of ecchondroma, Yirchow describes a form of cartilaginous tumor which grows from permanent cartilage. The tumors are usually small, and of little clinical importance. They grow from the cartilages of the ribs, the pelvic synclion- droses, the intervertebral cartilages, the cartilages of the larynx and trachea, and the spheno-occipital synchondrosis. Fibroma.—Fibrous tumors may grow either from the peri- osteum or the medulla. The ordinary seat of the periostese fibromata is the bones of the head and face. They form polypoid tumors, projecting into the posterior nares, pharynx, mouth, and the antrum of Highmore. On the other bones they are not common. The central fibromata, growing from the medulla, are rare; They usually occur in the lower jaw, but have been seen in the ends of the long bones, the phalanges of the fingers, and the vertebrae. The fibromata may calcify, ossify, contain cysts, and be com- bined with sarcoma and angioma. Angioma—Aneurism of Bone.—A very large number of the- tumors, which have been described under these names, are-292 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. f really sarcomata, or other tumors wliicli happened to be very vascular. Some authors, indeed, are disposed to deny altogether the existence of real vascular tumors in bones. There are, however, reliable cases of cavernous angiomata growing between the periosteum and bone, and intimately con- nected with the latter. Whether myelogenic angiomata occur is doubtful. There are several cases described of cavities filled with blood in the interior of bones, which it is difficult to interpret. They have mostly been found in the head of the tibia. They are said to have consisted of single sacs composed of thickened periosteum lined with plates of bone, and filled with fluid and clotted blood. No large vessels communicated with the sacs, but their walls were covered with a rich vascular plexus, branches of which opened into the cavity of tlie sac. Cystoma.—The cysts which occur in bones are new growths, not retention cysts. They are not to be confounded with cystic degeneration of tumors of the bones. They are found, almost exclusively, in the maxillary bones. They are usually mono- locular, contain clear serum, or a mucous, or viscous, or brown fluid, sometimes containing cholesterine. The cyst-wall is a fibrous sac lined with epithelium. They begin in the interior of the bone, and, as they increase in size, expand it until they are only covered with a thin shell of bone. They may reach a large size, even as large as a child's head. Tubercles are of rare occurrence in bone. The products of inflammation not infrequently undergo chees}^ degeneration and become crude, yellow masses, which are often called tuber- cular, but are not so. True tubercles occur in the medulla, es- pecially in tlie bodies of the vertebrje, and the ends of the long bones. They are at first small, miliary, grayish nodules, disseminated in large numbers. They afterward become cheesy, and are surrounded by a zone of suppurative osteo-myelitis. In this way caries and cavities in the bone are formed. Sarcoma.—This form of tumor is especially common in the bones. It grows from the inner layers of the periosteum, or from the medulla, so that we may distinguish a periosteal and a myelogenic sarcoma. Sometimes the tumor attacks the boneTHE BONES. 293 itself so early that it is impossible to say whether the tumor began in the periosteum or in the medulla. There is also a variety which grows close to the outside of the periosteum, and becomes connected with it—parosteal sarcoma. The periosteal sarcomata usually belong to the varieties fibro, myxo, chondro, and osteo-sarcoma, more rarely to the medullary variety. They are very frequently combined with fibroma, chondroma, and osteoma. They commence from the inner layers of the periosteum, pushing this membrane out- ward. After a time the periosteum is attacked, and the tumor invades the surrounding soft parts. The bone beneath may re- main normal, or may be eroded and gradually disappear until the tumor is continuous with the medulla. Portions of the tu- mor may be calcified, or a growth of new bone may accompany its growth. The new bone usually takes the form of plates, or spiculse, radiating outward. The minute anatomy of these tumors is very variable. The simplest—the fibro-sarcomata— are composed of fusiform, round, stellate, and sometimes giant, cells, (myeloplaxes,) in variable proportions, packed closely in a fibrous stroma. In the medullary form, the stroma is diminished to a minimum, and the round cells are most numerous. In the chondro and myxo-sarcoma, the basement substance may be hyaline, or mucous, and the cells follow the type of cartilage and mucoiis tissue. In the osteo-sarcoma, there is a new growth of osteoid tissue, more or less calcified. In the chondro, myxo, and osteoid sarcomata, there are usually fusiform, round, stel- late, and giant cells, in addition to the cartilage and bone- cells. The myelogenic sarcomata commence in the medulla and grow rapidly. The bone surrounding them is destroyed, and they project as rounded tumors. Most frequently, new bone is formed beneath the periosteum, so that the tumor is inclosed in a thin, bony shell; sometimes there are also plates of bone in the tumor ; sometimes the periosteum is imaltered ; sometimes it is perforated, and the tumor invades the surrounding soft parts. The tumors are usually vei'y soft, vascular, and liremor- rhagic, or may contain cysts. They are sometimes mistaken for cysts filled with blood. They are composed principally ofPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, 294 round cells, sometimes of fusiform cells, and frequently contain great numbers of myeloplaxes. The parosteal sarcomata resemble tbe periosteal. They ap- pear to grow from the outer layers of the periosteum or from the adjoining connective tissue. They may be as firmly con- nected with the bone as the periosteal form. The periosteum may remain intact between the tumor and the bone, or it may disappear and leave them in apposition. Osteoid Chondroma.—This form of tumor is foimd usually at the ends of the long bones. The tumors grow between the peri- osteum and the bone, forming sometimes enormous growths. They have a pyriform shape, are not lobulated, are of a smooth, hard consistence, with some calcified portions. Their minute structure is that of bone cartilage, osteoid tissue, a hard, homo- geneous basement substance, in which are imbedded round, fusiform, and stellate cells. Blood-vessels ramify through the tissue, and may be arranged as if in Haversian canals. Tliere is only needed a deposit of tlie salts of lime to convert this tissue into bone, and this change may talce place over a large portion of tlie tumor. Carcinoma.—The subject of true cancer of the bones is, in many respects, very obscure. Of the older tumors described under this name, a very large number are sarcomata. This is especially the case with primary tumors. Secondary and me- tastatic tumors can be more definitely made out. They follow the anatomy of the primary tumors, and may be scirrhus, me- dullary, or epithelial. Epithelial cancer of the lips and uterus not infrequently di- rectly invades the adjoining bones. A peculiar form is the developmennt of metastatic nodules in the bones. The primary disease is iTsiially an atrophic carci- noma of the mamma, and the nodules may be found in nearly every bone in the body. They grow in the medulla in the form of hard, white nodules. The bone near them may simply dis- appear so that fractures occur, or the bone may lose its salts of lime and become soft. In this way, marked curvatures of the long bones may take place.THE JOINTS. 295 PARASITES. EchinoGOGci are sometimes found in bone. They have the usual form of a mother cyst with daughter cysts. They grow in the bone tissue, but the cysts may burst beneath the perios- teum or in the medulla. CysticerGus Gellulom has been seen in a single case in the first phalanx of the middle finger. THE JOINTS. MALFORMATIONS. One or more of the joints may be absent, or may be in ex- cess, corresponding to the absence or excess of the bones form- ing them. Some of the ligaments may be absent. There may be congenital luxations, fractures, and synostoses. CHANGES IN POSITION. Luxations may be complete or incomplete. They may be intra-uterine, or produced by violence, or by relaxation of the ligaments, or by chronic inflammation of the joints. A full account of dislocations will be found in works on surgery. INFLAMMATION. Acute Synovitis.—The earlier stages of acute inflammation of the synovial membranes are better known from experiments on animals than from post-mortem examinations. The first changes are swelling and congestion of the membrane, with in- creased growth and desquamation of epithelium and infiltration of the membrane with lymphoid cells. These conditions are soon followed by an exudation. The exudation may be a clear serum, in which epithelial cells, lymphoid cells, and sometimes blood, will be found. Or floc. culi of fibrine may float in the serum, or the fibrine may be in excess and the serum nearly absent. Or there is an excessive production of lymphoid cells, and the synovial sac is filled with pus. Serous Synovitis may be caused by contusions, penetrating296 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. wounds, gonorrhoea, rheumatism, or be idiopathic. The disten- sion of the sac vnth serum is the most prominent lesion. The disease terminates in recovery or becomes chronic. Croupous Synovitis leads to adhesions and anchylosis of the alfected joint. Purulent Synovitis may terminate in recovery Avith a normal joint. Or the articular cartilages ulcerate and are destroyed^ the exposed bone may become carious, the pus may break through the capsule of the joint and form large abscesses in the soft parts. Sometimes the inflammation is not only suppurative, but gangrenous, and runs a rapidly fatal course. The synovial membrane, articular cartilages and ends of the bones all under- go a rapid suppuration and gangrene. Pysemia and septicaemia, small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria, mumps, typhus fever, glanders, the puerperal con- dition, exposure to cold, penetrating wounds, and injiiries may all give rise to purulent synovitis. Chronic Synovitis begins as such, or is the result of a previ- ous acute inflammation. There is an increase of fluid in the joint. This fluid is thin and serous, or is thickened with flocculi of fibrine and epithe- lial and lymphoid cells, or is thick, syrupy, or even gelatinoiis. The synovial membrane is at first congested, its tufts promi- nent. Later it becomes thickened, sclerosed, and anaemic, the epithelium is destroyed, and the tiifts become large and pro- jecting. From the distension of the capsule there may be sub- luxations or luxations of the joint, or the capsule may be rup- tured. Recovery is rare. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis is a chronic inflammation of the joints, most common in elderly persons. Usually several joints are aft'ected and disease, advances slowly and steadily. There is a chronic thickening of the synovial membrane and the fibrous tissue adjacent to it. The articular cartilages degenerate and disappear. The contracting synovial membranes and fibrous tissue render the joints stifl" and deformed. Not infrequently flbrous and bony anchyloses are formed between tlie ends of the bones.THE JOINTS. 297 Chronic fungotts and purulent Arthritis. Tumor albus. Arthrocace. Strtimous Arthritis. These names are used to designate a chronic inflammation which may involve all tlie parts of a joint. The larger joints are the ones usually diseased, and children and young persons the most disposed to the disease. The so-called scrofulous dia- thesis is said to predispose to this inflammation, hut local in- juries are frequently the exciting cause. The disease begins usually in the synovial membrane, some- times in the ends of the bones. The synovial membrane is thickened, congested, loses its epi- thelium and is converted into granulation tissue. This new granulation tissue appears red and succulent, or hard and yellow from degenerative changes, or oedematous. A variable amount of pus in the joint is produced at the same time with the changes in the synovial membrane, and may rupture the capsule. These changes are accompanied by a thickening of the fibrous tissue around the joint. "We then find around the joint a mass of hard, dense, sclerosed, anaemic tissue, composed principally of fusiform cells. In other cases, the new tissue is soft, si^cculent, vascular, composed of round cells. This new tissue may become so large as to replace all the soft parts above it, and become continiious with the skin around the joint. In some cases, portions of the new tissue break down into pus and form periarticidar abscesses. The articular cartilages become partially or entirely destroy- ed. The cartilage cells increase in number, diminish in size so as to resemble lymphoid cells, and degenerate, the cavities in which they are contained enlarge, the basement substance of the cartilage undergoes a kind of mucous softening. These changes begin on the surface of the cartilage and work inward until they have destroyed a smaller or larger part of it. »,If the disease begins as an osteitis of the end of the bone, instead of as a synovitis, the medulla of the bone becomes con- verted into granulation tissue, which grows into the cartilage and perforates into the joint by a number of sieve-like open- ings.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 298 The ends of tlie bones are found in a condition of caries, ne- crosis, sclerosis, fatty atrophy, or overlaid witli osteophytes. The disease always runs a very chronic course and may de- stroy the patient's life. If recovery takes place before the car- tilages and bones are involved, the joint is preserved; but is stiftened, or even immovable, from the contraction of the new fibrous tissue around it. If the cartilages and bones are diseas- ed, the joint is desti'oyed, and either bony or fibrous anchylosis results. Sometimes from the change in the articulating surfaces, and tlie contraction of the muscles and the new fibrous tissue, partial or complete dislocations are produced. Arthritis Deformans^ Malum Senile Articxdorum., Chronic Mhetimatic Arthritis, Rheumatic Gout.—These names have been given to a species of chronic inflammation of the joints, producing, not destruction, but deformity. It occurs in elder- ly persons, and attacks one or several joints. It is idiopathic, or due to rheumatism, to injuries, or follows an acute artliritis. The capsules of the affected joints are tliickened and scle- rosed. The synovial fluid is at first increased in quantity ; later, diminished and thickened. The tufts of the synovial mem- brane become much enlarged and vascular; they may be con- verted into cartilage. Sometimes the capsule becomes ossified. The new bone grows from the edge of the cartilage within the capsule. Its articular surface is covered with cartilage. The articular cartilages are much changed. The basement substance splits into tufts, while the cartilage-cells are increased in number. Or the basement substance becomes fibrous; or it is split into lamella? and the cartilage-cells multiplied; or there is fatty degeneration and atrophy. As a result of these clianges, larger or smaller portions of the cartilage are destroyed, and the bone beneath is laid bare. The exposed bone becomes com- pact and of an ivory smoothness. The ends of the bones are much deformed. They are flat- tened and made broader by irregular new growths of bone, while at the same time they atrophy. The new growth of bone starts from the articular cartilages. The cartilage-cells increase in number, and the basement sub- stance in quantity. This growtii is most excessive at the edge299 THE JOINTS. of the cartilage, so that a projecting rim is formed there. This projecting rim then begins to ossify next the bone, and, at the same time, new cartilage is formed on its surface, so that we find large masses of bone covered with cartilage. The atrophy of the ends of the bone, which goes on at the same time, is not so easily explained. It seems to be a kind of inflammatory atrophy taking place beneath the cartilage. NEW GROWTHS. Lipoma.—A new growth of fatty tissue may begin in the outer portions of the synovial membrane, push this inward, and project into the joint in a mass of tufts—lipoma arbo- rescens. Fibroma occiirs as an hypertrophy of the little tufts and fringes of the synovial membrane. In this way, large polypoid and dentritic bodies are formed. The pedicles of these growths may atrophy and even disappear, so that the growths are left free in the cavity of the joints. Corpora AUena Articulorum, Loose Cartilages in the Joints, These names are given to bodies of various structure and ori- gin, which are found free, or attached by slender pedicles in the cavities of the joints. They are most frequently foimd in the knee; next in order of fi-equency, in the elbow, hips, ankle, shoulder, and maxillary joints. They may be single, or in hundreds. Their size varies from that of a pin's head to that of the patella. They are polypoid, rounded, egg-shaped, or almond-shaped; their surface is smooth or faceted, or rough and mulberry-like. They are composed of fibrous tissue, carti- lage, and bone in various proportions. These bodies are formed in four different ways. (1.) By hypertrophy of, and production of cartilage and bone in the physiological synovial tufts. (2.) More frequently by a change into cartilage of portions of the synovial membrane. Small, flat plates of cartilage form on the inner surface of the synovial membrane. These plates increase in size and their outer layers ossify. They may remain fixed in the synovial membrane, or they project and become300 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. detached from it. They then appear as flattened, concave bodies, composed of bone covered with cartilage on one side. (3.) The growth of cartilage and bone begins in the outer layers of the synovial membrane, or in the periosteum, near the joint. The new growth pvishes the syno\aal membrane in- ward, and projects into the joint as a polypoid body covered with the inner layers of the synovial membrane. Later, the membrane atrophies and the growth becomes free in the joint. (4.) There may be cartilaginous outgrowths from the edges of the articular cartilages. Rarely portions of the articular cartilages may be detached by violence or disease, or fibrinous concretions may result from synovitis.F^RT III. THE LESIOITS FOUND m CASES OF GENERAL DISEASES; OF POISON ma; AND OF VIOLENT DEATH.PYAEMIA Under the name of pysemia are commonly understood seve- ral different conditions, giving rise to different lesions. (1.) Septiecemia.—Some portion of the body is in a condition of gangrene. That is, the tissues are not only dead, but de- composing, with the evolution of gases, the softening and lique- faction of the solid parts, and the development of minute or- ganisms, either animal or vegetable. The gangrenous fluids thus produced are, apparently, absorb- ed by the lymphatics and blood-vessels, and are thus able to produce marked symptoms during life, and to cause death. As in tj'phus fever, and other general diseases, hardly any lesions of the viscera ai*e found, and the changes in the fluids have as yet escaped observation. The bodies of persons, who have died from septicaemia, de- compose with unusual rapidity. The endocardium and inner coat of the vessels are often stained with the coloring matter of the blood. The viscera are soft and flabby. The spleen may be swollen. The kidneys may be congested, their epithelium degenerated. (2.) Simple Pycemia.—Persons who have suppurating wounds or abscesses may, without much change in the wound or ab- scess, be seized with rigors followed by fever, become jaundiced and die. In such persons, after death, no more lesions may be foimd than in septicaemia. The same tendency to decomposition, flabbiness of the viscera, and congestion of the spleen and kid- neys is found. Less frequently there may be purulent inflammation of the serous and synovial membranes, and of the connective tissue. Suppurative pleurisy, pericarditis, peritonitis, synovitis, and abscesses in the connective tissue may be found. Nor is there any way of accounting for these except by supposing that the pus from the original wound or abscess in some way infects thePOST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. 304 system, and renders the tissues prone to take on purulent in- flammation. (3.) Metastatic Pycemia.—This is a very difierent condition from the two preceding, and is accompanied with marked le- sions. Either in consequence of wounds, injuries, inflamma- tions, abnormal conditions of the system, or changes in the venous walls, the blood may become coagulated during life and form thrombi in the veins. These thrombi may become organized, or they may soften, break down, and their fragments be carried into the circulation. Some of such fragments ultimately be- come fixed in the small arteries and capillaries, and there exert a two-fold action. By their mechanical action in obstructing the vessels, they produce a collateral congestion, stasis, and extravasation of blood. By the irritative character of the thrombi themselves, they excite inflammatory action in the adjoining tissues. In this way are produced hsemorrhagic in- farctions and multiple abscesses. The character of these in- farctions will be more minutely described in connection with the organs in which they occur. In persons, therefore, who die with metastatic pyjemia we find infarctions and small abscesses in the brain, lungs, heart- walls, liver, spleen, kidneys, and intestines. These infarctions very frequently prodiice inflammation of the serous coverings of the viscera in which they occur. The lungs are the organs most frequently involved. Further, we may find purulent in- flammation of the serous and synovial membranes, and ab- scesses in the connective tissue. The emboli which produce the infarctions can sometimes be distinguished, sometimes not. The thrombi, from which the emboli are detached, are some- times readily found in the vein close to the original Avound. In other cases, they may be in the vein at some distance from the wound; in other cases, it may be, in a neighboring vein, or even in one in some distant portion of the body. Sometimes no thrombus can be discovered. Enlai'gement and congestion of the spleen and kidneys, and jaundice, are sometimes found.305 THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. A thrombus is a clot, composed principally of the fibrin e of the blood, formed dm'ing life in the cavities of the heart, the arteries, the veins, or the capillaries. An embolus is a solid body, usually a portion of a thrombus, carried by the blood-current into some artery or capillary, and becoming fixed there. A thrombus may entirely fill the cavity of a vessel; or it may only form a layer on its wall; or it may project from a smaller vessel into a larger one. An embolus may completely, or only partly, plug up a vessel. It may remain alone, or a thrombus may be formed around it. A thrombus may mei'ely become harder and whiter with time; or it may become organized ; or it may degenerate, soften, and change into a mass of puriform fluid and gangrenous-look- ing fibrine ; or it may calcify. The production of thrombi is due to various causes. (1.) Spontaneous thrombi are produced by any cause which seriously weakens the whole system, as old age and chronic ex- hausting diseases. They are usually formed in the veins of the. lower limbs and pelvis, and in the sinuses of the dura mater. (2.) Compression of the vessels by ligatures, tumors, dislocated' bones, and inflammatory exudation. Pneumonia may produce■ thrombosis of the pulmonary veins. Phthisis may produce thrombosis of the pulmonary arteries. (3.) Dilatation of the vessels, as in aneurisms and varicose veins. (4.) Thrombi may form in capillaries or small veins, and in- crease until they project into larger veins. (5.) Inflammation, especially of a gangrenous and suppura- tive natui-e, in the soft parts around a vessel. (6.) Degenerative and inflammatory changes in the wall of a vessel. In the arteries and capillaries, fatty degeneration and endarteritis may render the inner coat rough. The veins may become inflamed in consequence of inflammation of the sur- rounding soft pai'ts, or of wounds of their walls. The inflam-- 20306 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. mation involves the outer and middle walls of tlie vein, produc- ing little abscesses and consequent necrosis of portions of the inner coat. "Waldeyer says that there may be, without suppu- ration, an inflammation of the entire wall of a vein, resulting in the forjuation of minute elevations on its internal surface. (7.) Emboli may produce thrombi about them and in the veins corresponding to the arteries which they obstruct. The causes of embolism are also various. (1.) Fragments of thrombi in the veins are the most frequent material of emboli. (2.) Tlirombi of the heart, vegetations on the valves and on the walls of the aorta. (3.) Portions of the endocardium and of the inner coat of the aorta may degenerate and be detached from endarteriitis. (4.) Portions of tumors which project into the veins, the pig- mented bodies in melansemia, and fat may form emboli. In a considerable number of cases, it is impossible to find any source for the embolus. It must be remembered, however, in emboli, in connection with wounds, that not only the veins of the wounded region are to be examined, but also those of the pelvis. For, while there are no venous thrombi from the injury, there may be some from the decubitus and condi- tion of the patient. The consequences of thrombosis vary with the situation of the clot. Thrombi in the arteries produce ansemia of the region sup- plied by the artery, or congestion from the collateral circulation. Later, there may be inflammatory changes, softening, or gan- grene. Thrombi in the veins produce inflammation in and around the vein, oedema, thickening of the skin, and connective tissue, gangrene, lifemorrhages. Thrombi in the capillaries produce circumscribed congestions and hfemorrhages, (infarctions,) followed by degenerative and inflammatory changes, or there may be a more difiused gan- grene. The consequences of embolism vary with the character of the •embolus and its situation.307 THKOMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. A simple plug of fibrine in a vessel only produces changes in the circulation; but a plug ft'om a gangrenous thrombus has a tendency to excite suppurative inflammation wherever it lodges. Again, an embolus may entirely, or only partially, occlude a "vessel. The size of the artery occluded, and the character of its col- lateral circulation, also lead to a variety of results. If a large artery is stopped, the part becomes angemic; if a small one, there may be venous stasis from the collatei'al circulation. Thus, if the large arteries supplying the extremities are oc- cluded, we find anaemia, coldness, neuralgic pains, hyperfesthesia or anaesthesia, pricking sensations, cramps and paralysis of the muscles, and finally dry gangrene. Emboli of the pulmonary arteries produce dyspnoea or sudden death; of the coronary arteries, sudden death ; of the cerebral arteries, paralysis and white softening of the brain ; of the reti- na, sudden blindness and subsequent atrophy of the optic nerve; of the mesenteric arteries, congestion and gangrene of the in- testines. If there is suflBcient collateral circulation to partially supply the part with blood, we find evidences of chronic want of nutri- tion. The region alfected becomes atrophied ; its temperature falls ; slight injuries excite chronic inflammation ; the muscles undergo fatty degeneration; the bones necrose; the viscera de- generate ; the fingers and toes undergo dry gangrene. Emboli in the smaller arteries and capillaries produce the so-called haemorrhagic infarctions. We may therefore distinguish four classes of changes produced by emboli. (1.) The embolus remains at the point where it has become fixed, and becomes organized without producing any lesions. This is the case when there are abundant arterial anastomoses. (2.) The region supplied by the plugged artery undergoes necrobiotic changes, which take the form of softening, or of wet or dry gangrene. Such changes are seen in the brain, skin, and extremities. (3.) The region supplied by the plugged artery becomes the seat of venous congestion and extravasation of blood. ThisPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 308 takes place when tlie obstructed artery is a small one, and is terminal, that is, has no arterial anastomoses beyond the situa- tion of the embolus. These h^emorrhagic infarctions are seen in the lungs, spleen, kidneys, brain, eye, and alimentary canal. (4.) Abscesses are produced. This takes place when the em- bolus is of a gangrenous and irritative nature. Large abscesses are only found in the lungs and liver. Minute abscesses are found in other organs, and are probably produced by capillary emboli. The manner in which infarctions are produced has recently been studied afresh by Cohnheim. He has introduced little globules of wax into the circulation of frogs, and observed, un- der the microscope, the changes which take place when these little emboli become lodged in the branches of the lingual artery. If the plug is lodged in a terminal artery, the artery beyond the plug, the corresponding set of capillaries, and the vein, are filled with stationary blood, or are partly empty. After a time, the vein belonging to this system of capillaries receives a backward current of blood, beginning from the larger vein, into which it empties, this larger vein being supplied by unobstructed arte- ries. The backward flow of blood continues until the vein, capillaries, and artery are filled and distended. Up to this point the mechanism of the changes is clear. Tlie next step in the process is more difficult to explain. There is an escape of blood from the congested vessels, so that the tissue is infiltrat- ed with blood. This can hardly be accounted for by the mere backward current of blood, for the pressure can be no greater in the congested vessels than in any other part of the venous system. Cohnheim explains the extravasation of blood by a change in the walls of the congested vessels. He found tluvt, if ligatures were applied for a short time to terminal arteries, as in the frog's tongue, the rabbit's ear, the kidney and intestines, so that the system of vessels was for a time emptied of blood, and the ligature then removed, so that the blood could return, the result was an extravasation of blood, resembling an infarc- tion. No changes could be detected in the walls of the vessels, and he assumes that the temporary withch'awal of blood fromTYPHOID FEVER. 309 the vessels in some way impairs tlie nutrition of their walls, so that when they are again subjected to the ordinary blood-pres- sure the walls rupture. An embolus produces the same condition of affairs. A set of vessels are at first emptied of blood, and the nutrition of their walls thus impaired. After a time, these vessels are filled up from the veins, their abnormal walls can no longer resist the blood-pressure, and haemorrhage takes place. Cohnheim also asserts that when an abscess is formed by an embolus, the embolus is not lodged in a terminal artery, and produces no infarction. The embolus merely excites a suppu- rative inflammation by its pressure as an irritating body. After an hsemorrhagic infarction is formed, the subsequent changes in it are of a degenerative character. The blood loses its coloring matter, and breaks down into a mass of granules, forming a dry, yellow, wedge-shaped mass. It may remain in this condition, gradually diminishing in size. Or, it may soften, and break down into a puriform fluid. Or, it may be surrounded by a zone of inflammation, or of gangrene. Emboli from the left heart iTSually become fixed in the ar- teries and capillaries of the aortic system ; emboli of the right heart, or portions of thrombi from veins, in the capillaries of the lungs ; emboli from the portal system, in the capillaries of the liver. Not infrequently, however, we find infarctions of about the same date, and referable to a venous thrombus in both the pulmonary and aortic systems. This may take place in two ways. Emboli may be so small as to pass through the pulmonary circulation, and become fixed elsewhere; or, they lodge in the lungs, produce infarctions there, secondary throm- bi are formed in the pulmonary veins, and from these, emboli are carried into the left heart and aortic circulation. TYPHOID FEVER. The lesions of typhoid fever are well marked and constant. They may be conveniently divided into two classes. (1.) Those which are characteristic of the disease. To this310 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. class belong the changes in the lymphatic follicles of the intes- tines, in the mesenteric glands, and in the spleen. (2.) Those which are very fi'equently fonnd with this fever, and yet are not peculiar to it. To this class belong the changes in the parotid and pancreas, the degenerations in the liver, kidneys, and voluntary muscles, thrombosis of the blood- vessels, infarctions, diseases of the lungs, and suppuration of the connective tissue in various places. (1.) The Intestines.—The lesions of the intestines consist in an inflammatory enlargement, and subsequent degeneration of the lymph-follicles, whether as solitary glands or as Peyer's patches. The process appears to begin with a catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, accompanied or immediately follow- ed by changes in the lymphatic follicles. The lesions in the lymphatic follicles begin early; they have been observed in per- sons who have died forty-seven hours after the commencement of the disease. The increase in size of the agminated and solitary follicles may be rapid or gradual. The follicles may be only sliglitly enlarged, or may project so as to All up the cavity of the intes- tine. The enlargement is xisnally more marked in the agmi- nated than in the solitary follicles. Usually the whole of an agminated follicle will be enlarged, but sometimes only a part of it. If the enlargement is gradual, the diflerent follicles which make up a Peyer's patch are enlarged, while the septa between them remain but little changed, and give the patch an nneven appearance. The patches which are only moderately enlarged are of red- dish or reddish gray color, are soft and spongy, and their edges blend gradually with the adjoining mucous membrane. The patches which are more intensely aflected are of gray or brown- ish color, of firm consistence, and rise abruptly from the sur- rounding mucous membrane, or even overhang it like a mush- room. The largest patches are sometimes more than f inch thick. The enlargement and infiltration may spread from the patches to the surrounding mucous membrane, so that the311 TYPHOID FEVER. patches appear very large, a number of them may become fused together, and there may be even an annular infiltration entirely around the lower end of the ileum. The infiltration of the agminated follicles may also extend outward into the muscular coat, and even appear beneath and in the peritoneal coat as small, gray, rounded nodiiles. This condition is usually found only with a few patches in tlie lower end of the ileum ; sometimes in the coecum and appendix ver- miformis. These little gray nodules usually correspond to diseased patches beneath them ; but sometimes they appear to excite an inflammation of the peritoneum, accompanied by the production of numbers of similar nodules all over that mem- brane. Hoffmann describes a case in which the inflammation extended to the pleura with the production of similar nodules there. Tlie solitary follicles are affected in the same way as Pey- er's patches. They may be hardly enlarged at all, or be quite prominent, or may be afi'ected over a larger portion of the in- testine than are the patches. Very rarely the solitary follicles are enlarged, while the patches are not at all or but slightly affected. The inflammation and enlargement of the agminated and solitary follicles is followed by a healing process. The charac- ter of this process varies according to the intensity of the pre- vious inflammation. (1.) If the disease was mild, and the enlargement of the fol- licles moderate, the enlargement gradually disappears, and the follicles resume their normal appearance. (2.) In moderate enlargements, the retrograde processes affect first the follicles, and leave the septa between them still swollen and prominent. This gives to the sui'face of a patch a reticu- lated appearance. After a time, however, the entire patch becomes flattened and uniform. (3.) The solitary follicles, or the separate follicles of a patch soften, break down, and their contents are discharged with some attendant haemorrhage. This leaves a bluish-gray pig- mentation in the situation of each follicle. This pigmentation may remain for years.312 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. (4.) In more severe types of the disease, the enlargement of the follicles ends in ulceration. This takes place in two ways. (a.) The enlarged follicles soften, break down, and discharge their contents into the intestine. In this way are formed small ulcers. These iilcers increase in size by the same softening process, which gradually attacks their edges, and in this way ulcers of large size may be formed. The ulcers may extend outward only to the peritoneal coat, or it may extend to the peritoneal coat and terminate in perforation. (b.) In the severest forms of the disease, considerable portions of the enlarged patches slough en masse^ leaving a large ulcer with thick, overhanging edges. The slough may involve only the follicles, or it may extend to the musciilar and even to the peritoneal coat. These ulcers also may afterward increase in area, and several of them may become joined together. The ulceration, if the patient recover, cicatrizes, its edges be- come flattened, its floor is covered with a thin membrane cover- ed with cylindrical epithelium. Both forms of ulceration sometimes end in perforation. This takes place by the extension of the ulcerative process through the peritoneal coat, or by the rupture of the floor of the ulcer from some mechanical cause. Peritonitis and death are the usual events. In rare cases, however, the patient recovers, the perforation being closed by adhesions. The minute changes which take place in the course of the intestinal lesions are as follows : At first the blood-vessels around the follicles are dilated and congested, while the follicles are swollen, and the epithelium falls ofl". Then the follicles increase largely in size, and the increase is due to anew cell-growth. The new cells are in part similar to the lymphoid cells, which normally compose the fol- licles ; in part are large rounded cells, 6-8 times as large as these, and containing several nuclei. Tlie production of new cells is not confined to the follicles, but extends to the adjacent mucous membrane. In many cases, also, little foci of the same cells are found in the muscular, subserous, and serous coats. This increased number of cells compresses the vessels, and the parts become anaemic. Soon the cells degenerate, either by313 TYPHOID FEVER. granular degeneration of the individual cells, or by gangrene of a large part of a follicle. In either case, the degenerated portion is eliminated into the intestine, and leaves an ulcer, v^ith its edges and floor infiltrated with cells. After this, the cell growth goes on, and the ulcer enlarges, or the cells are replaced gradually by connective tissue, and cicatrization follows. The lesions we have described are found most frequently and most developed in the lower part of the ileum. They are not always, however, confined to this situation. Enlarged and ul- cerated follicles may be found over the entire length of the ileum, and even in the jejunum. They may also extend down- ward, and be found in the colon, even as far down as the rec- tum. The same changes may also take place in the appendix vermiformis. Besides the regular typhoid lesions of the intestines which have been described, we occasionally meet with others of a more accidental character. Gangrene of the intestinal wall sometimes occurs. It most frequently involves a portion of the wall corresponding to an ulcer, but may also afi:ect other portions where no ulcer exists. The process may terminate in perforation or in healing. Diphtheritic Inflammation may attack the mucous mem- brane of either the large or small intestine. The mucous mem- brane between the typhoid ulcers is covered and infiltrated with croupous exudation. Peritonitis of a mild type is a frequent accompaniment of the intestinal lesions. It appears to have but little influence on the course of the disease. Severe peritonitis is usually due to perforation, less frequently to ulcers which reach the serous coat, but do not perforate. When there is infiltration of the serous coat with the typhoid new growth, the peritonitis may be accompanied by a produc- tion of little gray nodules of the same character throughout the peritoneum. Infarctions of the spleen, inflammation of the ovaries, and perforation of the gall-bladder are sometimes the cause of peri- tonitis. Ho&morrhage from the intestines is merely due to the inflam-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 314 matory swelling and congestion, and is slight; or it is due to the ulceration of the follicles and consequent destruction of blood-vessels. In the latter case, the bleeding may be so pro- fuse as to cause death. Mesenteric Glands.—The mesenteric glands undergo the same changes as the follicles of the intestines, and are usually affected in a degree corresponding to the intensity of the in- testinal lesions. The glands are at first congested and succulent, then there is a production of lymphoid cells and large cells, as in the intes- tinal follicles, and the gland becomes enlarged, sometimes to an enormous extent. When the enlargement has attained its full size, the congestion diminishes, and the cells begin to degene- rate. This degeneration may take place slowly, so that the gland retui'ns to its normal appearance; or more rapidly, so that little foci of softened piiriform material are formed. If these foci are small, they are absorbed, leaving a fibrous cica- trix ; if they are large, they become dry, cheesy, and inclosed in a fibrous capsule. The Spleen.—In nearly every case of typhoid fever, the spleen is enlarged. Sometimes, however, this lesion fails, and that without any satisfactory reason. In some cases, a preex- isting thickening of the capsule, or old adhesions, seem to explain the non-enlargement; but in others, no such obstacle exists. The enlargement of the spleen commences soon after the beginning of the disease, increases rapidly until the third week, remains stationary for a few days, and then diminishes. The organ is congested, of dark red color, and of firm consis- tence, while it is increasing in size. After it has reached its maximum size, its consistence becomes soft, and there is a con- siderable deposit of brown pigment. The enlargement appears to be due to the congestion, and to an increase of the normal elements of the spleen. Infarctions of the spleen are occasionally found in typhoid fever, although they are by no means peculiar to it. They may cicatrize, or soften and cause peritonitis. Rxt/ptv/re of the spleen is said to occur, in rare cases, without the presence of infarctions.TYPHOID FEVER. 315 The second class of lesions comprises those which are fre- quently found with typhoid fever, but are not peculiar to it. The Motcth.—A number of changes are found about this region. The follicles at the root of the tongue and the tonsils may be enlarged ; the muscles of the tongue may undergo waxy and granular degeneration; gangrenous ulcers may at- tack the floor and sides of the mouth, and destroy large areas of tissue. The Pharynx may be the seat of catarrhal or of diphtheritic ulceration, producing superficial and deep ulcers. The Parotid is, in a moderate number of cases, the seat of an inflammation which tends to suppuration. In this process, both the glandular acini and the connective tissue between them are involved. Which of the two has the larger share in the process is still in dispute. A slight enlargement and induration of the parotid and sub- maxillary glands is said by Ploffmann to be a frequent lesion, and to depend on increase of the gland-cells and dilatation of the follicles with their secretion. The Pancreas undergoes changes similar to those in the sa- livary glands. It becomes at first swollen and red, then hard and gi'ayish, then yellow. The vessels are at first congested; afterward, there is increase of the gland-cells; and lastly, degeneration. The Liver may preserve its normal character, or may present changes. In many cases, the organ will be found soft and flabby. Minute examination then shows that the liver-cells have under- gone degeneration. They are filled with fine granules and small fat globules, and the degeneration may go on so fai- that the outlines of the hepatic cells are lost, and nothing but a mass of granules can be seen. Less frequently, we find in the liver very small, soft, grayish nodules resembling those found in the peritoneum. They are situated along the course of the small veins, and there is, at the same time, a diffuse infiltration of lymphoid cells along the small veins. The nodules consist of lymphoid cells ; they are often too small to be distinguished with the naked eye.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 316 The Heart.—In a considerable number of cases, the muscular tissue of tbe heart is altered. The heart feels soft and flabby, is of grayish or brownish color, the muscular fibres are infil- trated with fine granules, and sometimes with brown pigment. Or, the heart is firm, but friable and easily torn ; its cut surface glistens, and its muscular fibres present the waxy changes which will be described with the muscles. Thrombi in the cavities of the heart, and vegetations adher- ing to the valves, are sometimes found. They may give rise to emboli in different organs. The La/i'ynx is very frequently the seat of catarrhal inflam- mation, with or without superficial ulceration. Less frequently diphtheritic infiammation occurs, and, in severe cases, may pro- duce serious lesions: destructive ulcerations, perichondritis, and profuse haemorrhage. The Lungs.—The recumbent position of the patients some- times leads to a long-continued congestion of the lungs, wliich renders them unfit to perform their functions. The lower lobes of the lungs, and sometimes the uj^per, will be found dark- colored, firm, infiltrated with blood, containing but little air. Microscopic examination shows the capillaries filled with blood, and the air-cells containing a very variable number of lymphoid cells. Catarrhal bronchitis exists in a large number of cases. It may run its course as such, or it may become complicated with lobular pneumonia. This lobular pneumonia may go on to cheesy hepatization and be the commencement of phthisis. Sometimes lobar, croupous pneumonia is found. Infarctions are found in the lungs in all their various stages, apoplectic, bleached yellow and white, softened, and puriform. Gangrene of the lungs occasionally is found, either associated with lobular pneumonia, with infarctions, or as an independent condition. The Kidneys, in a large number of cases, present changes simi- lar to those in the liver; that is, a parenchymatous degeneration. The kidneys are of medium size, their surface smooth, but the regular markings of the cortex are lost and largely replaced by317 TYPHOID FEVER. a white color. Tlie epithelium, especially of the convoluted tubes, is granular and broken down. Infarctions are not uncommon. Small, gray nodules, like those in the liver and peritoneum, are seen in a few cases. The Ovaries.—Haemorrhage and gangrenous inflammation have been observed in rare cases. The Brain.—(Edema of the pia mater and of the brain tissue is found in a certain number of cases. As to its frequency, authorities differ. Acute meningitis, white softening, softening with capillary apoplexies and infarctions, are found in occasional cases. The Yoluntary Muscles undergo various changes. (1.) The muscular fibres become filled with fatty and albu- minous granules to such an extent that the markings of the fibres disappear. This degeneration is observed in other dis- eases. (2.) The muscular fibres undergo a peculiar change, called by Zenker " waxy degeneration." It is not to be confounded with the " waxy " or " amyloid " degeneration of the liver, kidneys, etc. This change is also found in typhus, cholera, acute tu- berculosis, small-pox, and other diseases, and in connection with injuries of the muscles. It is most common, however, in typhoid fever, and at the acme of the disease. The change is usually found in the abdominal muscles, the adductors of the thigh, the pectoral muscles and diaphragm, and in the tongue. The muscles appear to the naked eye of a grayish or yellow color, dry, brittle, with a wax-like section, resembling fish mus- cle. Microscopic examination shows the muscular fibres to be converted into a peculiar, homogeneous, highly refracting sub- stance. According to the manner in which a fibre is attacked, we find long, wax-like cylinders, or smaller, irregular bodies of very various shape. The change in the fibres is accompanied or followed by a new growth of muscle. "We find then num- bers of lymphoid and fusiform cells with large fusiform bodies, and large, fiat, plate-like bodies, each containing many nuclei, and some of them distinctly striated.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 318 The entire process is diifereiitly interpreted by different observers. Some hold that it is a degeneration followed by atrophy and a new growth. Others, that the new growth pre- cedes and causes the degeneration. Others, that, instead of a degeneration, the waxy appearance is produced by a coagulation analogous to that which produces the rigor mortis, and that the entire appearance is a post-mortem one. (3.) Kupture of the muscles is apparently produced by their waxy degeneration. It is accompanied by haemorrhage, some- times to a large amount. It may cicatrize, or become the seat of a purulent, gangrenous inflammation. (4.) Suppuration of the muscles or of their fasciae is occa- sionally seen ; it may produce large abscesses. The Skin.—Gangrenous inflammation of the skin frequently occurs in the form of bed-sores, aflr'ecting the skin over the sacrum and trochanters, where it is subjected to the constant pressure of the bed. Gangrene of other portions of the integu- ment, especially of the toes, is produced by thrombosis or em- bolism. There may be suppurative inflammation of the connective tissue in various parts of the body. Perhaps the most impor- tant is that producing retro-pharyngeal abscesses. BILIOUS TYPHOID. Under this name Griesinger describes a form of fever resem- bling in its symptoms both relapsing and typhoid fever, and attended by very grave symptoms. The Skin is jaundiced ; sometimes ecchymotic. The Brain is usually anaemic. The pia mater may contain haemoi'rhages. The Pharynx and Larynx may be the seat of catarrhal, croupous, and idcerative inflammation. The Lungs.—Catarrhal bronchitis, lobar, and lobular hepati- zation, and infarctions are not infrequent. The Heart is usually flabby and pale. The Liver is enlarged and congested, or anaemic, flabby, yellow, and fatty. Its surface is often coated Avith fibrinous exudation.319 TYPHUS FEVER. The Spleen is often coated with exudation. It is always enlarged, congested, soft, and may undergo spontaneous rupture. In most cases, it is filled with countless small, grayish nodules— the enlarged Malpighian bodies. These afterward soften and form little abscesses. Infarctions are not uncommon. The Stomach and Intestines are often the seat of catarrhal and croupous inflammation. The solitary and agminated folli- cles are not enlarged. The Mesenteric Glands and the other lymphatic glands in the abdomen are usually enlarged. The Kidneys are frequently congested, or anaemic, and the seat of parenchymatous degeneration. TYPHUS FEVER. The lesions of typhus fever are variable and not very charac- teristic. The Skin.—The regular eruption of typhus disappears after death, but sometimes small ecchymoses remain. Gangrene from bed-sores, and of the toes from thrombosis, are sometimes seen. Decomposition commences early, and the blood is unusually fluid and prone to stain the vessels. The Brain usually presents no lesions. Acute meningitis is said sometimes to occur. The Pharynx and Larynx may be the seat of catarrhal or diphtheritic inflammation. Gangrenous inflammation of the walls of the mouth may occur. Suppurative inflammation of the parotid glands is not uncommon. The Lungs.—Bronchitis frequently exists. Hypostatic con- gestion, lobular and lobar pneumonia and infarctions are sometimes found. The Heart is soft and flabby. Its muscular fibres are often filled with granules. The Spleen is usually large and soft. There may be infarc- tions. The Liver and Kidneys may present the same parenchyma- tous degeneration as is observed in typhoid fever.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 320 The Intestines may appear novinal, or the agminated and solitary follicles may be slightly enlarged, or there may be catarrhal or diphtheritic inflammation. The Voluntary Muscles sometimes undergo the same granu- lar and waxy degeneration as in typhoid fever. RELAPSING FEVER. The lesions of relapsing fever are neither characteristic nor constant. In some cases, no marked lesions are to be fomid. The Liver and Spleen are frequently enlarged. The Ltmgs may be congested or hepatized in the lobular or lobar forms. The Kidneys may be congested, or may undergo parenchy- matous degeneration. Haemorrhages in the walls of the alimentary canal, the air- passages, and in the skin are sometimes found. MALARIAL FEVERS. INTEEMITTENT AND REMITTENT FEVER. The lesions of malarial poisoning are usually characteristic and well marked. Their extent varies with the intensity and duration of the disease and the period at which the patient dies. Intermittent Fever corresponds to a mild degree of malarial poisoning, and seldom causes death. Remittent Fever, especially the " pernicious" form, corre- sponds to an intense degree of the poison, and frequently causes death. The Blood.—The most constant lesion is the presence of lit- tle particles of black or reddish pigment in the blood. The pigment is in the form of flakes, or of granules imbedded in small, irregular, transparent, flnely-granular bodies. We also find these same transparent bodies without pigment, some of them lookino- like round and fusiform cells. Sometimes there is an increase of white blood-globules.321 MALARIAL FEVERS, The presence of this pigment in the blood gives to the ditfe- rent organs of the body a peculiar, dark color, varying in shade according to the proportion of pignaent. Sometimes the change in color is not perceptible to the naked eye, and only microscopic examination shows the pigment in the vessels. The pigment is distributed in very different amounts in the different organs. Tlie Spleen is the organ in which the pigment is found in the greatest amount and most constantly. Here it is difficult to ascertain whether the pigment is entirely in the vessels, or also in the parenchyma. The spleen will be found of reddish brown, olive, or black color. It is usually enlarged, sometimes enormously so; its consistence may be normal, or soft, or firm. In mild intermittent fever, the spleen may be much enlarged and not pigmented. The Liver is almost as frequently and intensely pigmented as the spleen. It is of a light or dark brown, or olive, or black color. The pigment will be found in the venous and arterial capillaries and small veins. Sometimes, while the change in color of the liver is so slight as hardly to be appreciated, a stnall amount of pigment will still be found in the capillaries. The liver may be of normal size, or large and congested, or small. The hepatic cells usually appear perfectly normal. In some cases there is intense congestion, and even haemorrhages, in the substance of the organ. The Brain is much less frequently affected. In marked cases, the gray matter of the convolutions and ganglia appears of a dark gray color, contrasting strongly with the white mat- ter. Sometimes there are multitudes of little capillary apo- plexies. The pigment will be found in the small vessels and capillaries of the pia mater and gray matter. It may accumulate in the vessels so as to obstruct them, and produce the capillary apo- plexies just mentioned. In other parts of the body the pigmentation is usually not sufficient to be seen with the naked eye. Careful microscopical examination, however, will very often detect pigment in the? 21322 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, small vessels and capillaries of the kidneys, intestines, lungs, skin, and connective tissue throughout the body. If the patient die during a chill, all the organs are usually intensely congested. The Stomach and Small Intestine may be the seat of catarrhal inflammation; the large intestine, of croupous inflammation; jaundice is not uncommon. Oedema of the feet and legs, ascites, and general anasarca, or ascites alone, may be found after only a few paroxysms of the disease. The cause of this condition is not apparent. Persons who have become anaemic and cachectic from Ions: continuance of the disease may develop cedema in the same way as other anaemic persons. YELLOW FEVER. The Skin and other tissues are usually jaundiced ; the color ranges from light yellow to dark mahogany. Petechia and ec- chymoses are often found. The muscles sometimes contain large haemorrhages. The Brain and Spinal Cord present no marked lesions. The Lungs.—Catarrhal bronchitis, haemorrhagic infarctions of the lungs, and ecchymoses of the pleura are sometimes found. The Heart.—The pericardium may contain serous and fibri- nous exudation or blood. There may be ecchymoses in the pericardium. The heart is frequently soft and flabby, its mus- cular fibres far advanced in fatty degeneration. Alimentary Canal.—There may be deep erosions of the mu- cous membrane of the oesophagus. The stomach and small in- testines usually contain blackened blood. The mucous mem- brane of the stomach may be normal, or congested, with ecchymoses and haemorrhagic erosions. The mucous membr;xne of the stomach may also be the seat of catarrhal inflammation, with swelling of the solitary and agminated follicles. The Liver may be normal or hyjieraemic. Most frequently, however, by the third day of the disease it presents peculiar changes. It is of normal size, or slightly enlarged, or atro- phied. It contains little blood, is of a cafe au lait or yellowCHOLERA. 323 color; its consistence is flabby and dry. The hepatic cells are filled with granules, or with fat globules. In persons who have recovered from the fever and died a few weeks later from other causes, the liver has been found en- tirely normal. The Spleen is normal, or enlarged and congested. The Kidneys are frequently the seat of a parenchymatous degeneration analogous to that of the liver. CHOLERA. In this disease the lesions do not by any means correspond to the severity of the symptoms during life. This is especially the case in mild epidemics of the disease, and in cases which die during the stage of reaction. In many such cases there are no marked lesions. If death occurs during the invasion of the disease, or in col- lapse, in severe cases the appearances are as follows : The bodies remain warm for some time, and the temperature may even rise for a short time after death. The rigor mortis commences soon, and lasts unusually long. The muscles some- times exhibit a peculiar spasmodic twitching before the rigor mortis sets in, especially the muscles of the hand and arm. The Skin is of a dusky gray color, the lips, eyelids, fingers, and toes of a livid purple. The cheeks and eyelids are fallen in, and the face has a peculiar sunken look. The Brain.—The sinuses of the dura mater are filled with dark, thick blood. The pia mater may be normal, or oedema- tous, or ecchymosed, or covered with a thin layer of fibrinous exudation. The brain is usually normal. The Lungs.—The pleura is often covered with a thin layer of fibrinous exudation. The lungs are retracted and anaemic. The Heart is unchanged. The Peritoneum is often covered with a layer of fibrinous exudation. The Stomach is usually unchanged, sometimes the seat of catarrhal inflammation. The Small Intestine may appear normal, or anaemic, or con-324 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. gested in various degrees. The mucous membrane may be soft and oedematous. In the intestines we find a variable quantity of the rice-water fluid seen in tlae evacuations during life. The solitary and agminated follicles may be much swollen. The Large Intestine is usually normal. In some epidemics, however, it is prone to croupous inflammation with ulceration. The Liver cmd Spleen undergo few changes ; they may be anfemic and flabby. The Kidneys appear normal, or large and congested, or with white and thickened cortex. The tubes contain degenerated epithelium and casts. The Uterus and Ovwries may be congested, and contain haemorrhages. If the patient does not die xmtil after the acute symptoms of the disease have passed by, the appearances are difierent. The body does not present the same collapsed appearance. The Larynx may be the seat of purulent or diphtheritic in- flammation. The Lungs.—There may be pleurisy with sero-purulent exu- dation. The lungs may be congested and oedematous, or con- tain infarctions, or lobular hepatizations, or there may be bron- chitis. The Stomach and Intestines may be the seat of croupous in- flammation. EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. This disease presents itself imder a variety of forms in dif- ferent epidemics, and in difierent localities. The severity of the disease, its duration, and its symptoms are all variable. Its lesions also are not constant. Those which will be enumerated below are not all or any of them necessarily present in every case. The Skin may be unchanged, may present petechial spots, or large purpuric patches. In many cases vesicles of herpes are found on the face and elsewhere. The Muscles frequently are the seat of granular degeneration. Sometimes there is an increase of cells between the muscular fibres, which may go on to the formation of abscesses.EPIDEMIC CERBBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. 325 The Rigor Mortis is pronounced and long continued, but de- composition sets in early. The Skull.—The bones of the sknll may be hypersemic. The Brain.—A few cases are reported in which no lesions of the bi'ain or its membranes were seen ; but, as a rule, lesions are found. The dura mater may be covered on its inner surface with a layer of fibrinous exudation and extravasated blood ; or it may be adherent to the pia mater. There may be purulent matter between the dura and pia mater. The pia mater is usually congested. Infiltrated in it and be- neath it we find serum, gelatinous matter, and pus in variable amounts. There may be a general opacity and thickening of the pia mater, or there are scattered purulent foci. These changes are most frequent and most marked at the base of the brain. Microscopic examination of the pia mater, where it appears unchanged, often shows an increase of cells. The gelatinous matter beneath and in the pia mater appears to be made up of pus imbedded in a mucous basement substance. The ependyma of the ventricles may contain small ecchy- moses. The walls of the ventricles may be softened and oede- matous. There may be pus in the ventricles and in the cho- roid plexuses. Sometimes the ventricles are enormously dis- tended with serum. In the brain tissue there may be capillary apoplexies, large apoplexies, general hypertemia, spots of white softening, oede- matous softening, suppurative encephalitis, infarctions, granular softening around the small vessels, red softening, cell-growth in the gray matter of the cortex. Spinal Cord.—There may be small extravasations of blood in the loose tissue outside of the dura mater. The dura mater may be congested, its internal surface covered with fibrinous exudation, or it may be adherent to the arachnoid. There may be pus, serum, or gelatinous matter between the dura and pia mater. The pia mater is congested, infiltrated with pus, serum, and gelatinous matter. The same substances are found beneath it. The exudation is found on the posterior aspect of the cord rather than on its anterior. The inflammatory lesions may ex- tend the entire length of the cord, or only over part of it, or326 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. over discontinuous portions. The central canal of tlie cord may be dilated and contain pus. The cord may be softened. There may be a cell-growth, or a production of pus about the roots of the spinal nerves. The Ears.—The auditory nerves may be oedematous, softened, or imbedded in pus. There may be suppurative inflammation of the internal ear. The Eyes may be the seat of suppurative choroiditis. The Lungs.—The mucous membrane of the bronchi may be congested. The lungs may be congested and oedematous ; or there may be hepatization of larger or smaller portions of the lung tissue. The Stomach.—There is said to be sometimes an unusual degree of softening of the fundus. The Intestines.—The solitary and agminated follicles may be swollen and even ulcerated. The Spleen may be larger, or small, or pigmented. The Liver is usually of medium size. The hepatic cells are often the seat of granular degeneration. The Kidneys.—The epithelium of the tubes may be the seat of granular degeneration. SCURVY. The bodies decompose early. The skin is of a dusky color, sometimes oedematous on the legs, mottled with a variable number of small and large, purple, blue, brown, or blackish spots, produced by extravasations of blood in the superficial layers of the cutis. The gums are swollen, soft, and livid, the teeth loose, the alveolar walls often necrotic. In the subcutaneous connective tissue, and in the muscles, we may find extravasations of blood, sometimes of very large size, in various stages of absorption, induration, and softening. Sometimes these extravasations produce perforation of the skin and ulcers. The joints may be inflamed, may contain serum or blood. Earely, the haemorrhages are followed by destruction of the car- tilages and ends of the bones.Addison's disease. 327 Very rarely, there may be haemorrliage between the perios- teum and bone, and in the bone itself, producing softening and destruction of the bone, and separation of the epiphyses. The sternal ends of the ribs are the most frequent seat of this change. The pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum may be the seat of ecchymoses, or contain large haemorrhages in their cavities, or be coated with fibrinous exudation. The lungs may be congested, oedematoiis, or the seat of lobu- lar pneumonia. The mucous membrane of the air-passages usually contains ecchymoses. The spleen is swollen, soft, and may contain infarctions. The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines is swollen, congested, contains haemoi'rhages, exhibits small hse- morrhagic ulcers, and may be coated with blood. The kidneys may appear normal, or may be in various stages of Bright's Disease. ADDISON'S DISEASE. Under this name is usually understood a disease characterized by a dark-colored or bronzed skin, by disease of the supra-renal capsules, and by a peculiar group of symptoms. The symp- toms are: A change in the mental condition; great ansemia, with increase of the white-blood globules, but without emacia- tion ; frequent and protracted syncope ; great prostration ; pains in the back and epigastrium ; dyspepsia and vomiting; diar- rhoea; sometimes convulsions, neuralgia, and paraplegia; ty- phoid symptoms and death. The pigmentation of the skin is the symptom which has prin- cipally excited attention. The change in color usually begins, and becomes most intense in those parts of the skin which are not covered by the clothing. The rest of the skin afterward changes color, but not uniformly ; for white patches are often left. The color is at first a light yellow or brown ; this becomes darker until it is a dark greenish brown, grayish or blackish brown. There may be black spots on the mucous membrane of the lips and mouth.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 328 Unfortunately, under the same name of Addison's Disease, different observers have described cases in which the symptoms and bronzed skin existed without disease of the supra-renal capsules ; cases in which the bronzed skin was the only lesion ; cases in which the supra-renal capsules were diseased without symptoms or bronzed skin. In the present state of our knowledge, we have to admit that the connection between the color of the skin, the condition of the supra-renal capsules, and the symptoms is an unsolved pro- blem. Each of the three conditions, the symptoms, the colored skin, and the diseased capsules may exist separately, and yet in a very considerable number of cases they are combined. I can only, therefore, give such lesions as have been observed, without implying that they are the universal or necessary lesions of the disease. The Skin.—The pigmentation resembles that of the negro. It is a diffuse or granular pigmentation of the inner layers of the rete Malpighii. Sometimes pigment is found along the nerves and vessels in the cutis. The Brain.—Softening, hydrops of the ventricles, pigmenta- tion of the gray matter, exudation on the arachnoid, hyperae- mia and ansemia of the brain, chronic inflammation, degenera- tion of the hypophysis cerebri, and concretions in the medulla oblongata have all been observed. The SympathetiG Nerves.—Atrophy, fatty degeneration, hy- persemia, pigmentation, and fibrous degeneration, esj)ecially affecting the abdominal portion of the sympathetic, have been described. The Supra-renal Capsules.—The most frequent lesion is pro- duced by a chronic inflammation with cheesy degeneration. Less frequently, tubercles, carcinoma, apoplexy, fatty and waxy degeneration have been observed. The most striking cases are tliose in which at the autopsy no other lesions exist, nor can any other cause for death be found than the change in the supra-renal capsules.329 GOUT. LEUKEMIA.—PSEUDO-LEUKiEMIA. Under these two names, we understand two diseases, in whicli are found tlie same lesions of the viscera, but in which the condition of the blood is different. The lesions consist in the new growth of lymphatic glandu- lar tissue in different parts of the body. This new growth takes place as an hyperplasia of the spleen alone, or of the lymphatic glands alone, or of both together; or there may be also small growths of the same nature in the tonsils, larynx, and trachea, lungs and pleura, stomach and intestines, pericardium, liver, spleen, and kidneys. The lymphatic glands in every part of the body may be enormously enlarged, but do not become inflamed, softened, or cheesy. The growths in the different viscera will be found fully de- scribed under their respective headings. With these lesions in the viscera, there may be also a very marked increase in the number of the white blood-globules in leukaemia ; or the proportional number of white-globules may be very slightly, or not at all, increased in pseudo-leuksemia. GOUT. The characteristic lesion of gout is the deposit of urate of soda in the articular cartilages, the ligaments of the joints, the ears, and the eye-lids. . The most frequent situation is the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe. The cartilage may be infiltrated or incrusted with the deposit. If the gout is of long standing, there is usually chronic diffuse nephritis. The kidneys are small, the cortical substance atro- phied, the surface irregular, the texture hard, the pyramids marked by white lines running parallel to the tubes. These white lines consist of urate of soda. GLANDERS.—FARCY. These two names are given to two varieties of the same disease. The disease originates in the horse, and occurs inPOST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 330 men by contagion. According to some authors, it may be idio- pathic in the human subject. In the horse, we find four varieties of tlie disease: Chronic and acute glanders, chronic and acute farcy. (1.) Chronic Glanders.—The disease begins in the mucous membrane of the nose. Small, whitish nodules, composed of small round cells, are formed in the mucous membrane. These nodules soften and ulcerate. The same nodules may be found in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. The ulcerations may remain superficial, or they may extend and attack the subjacent cartilage and bone. Nodules of the same kind may be found in the lungs. (2.) Acute Glanders.—There is the same formation of no- dules, which soften and ulcerate; but they are accompanied with an intense inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, and the disease runs a rapid course. (3.) Chronic Farcy.—The lymphatic glands and vesicles be- come enlarged, and nodules are formed in the skin, lungs, and other viscera. The glands become cheesy, or soften and sup- purate. The cutaneous nodules soften and suppurate. (4.) Acute Farcy.—There are the same lesions of the lym- phatics, and nodules and abscesses are found in the skin. Tliere are also nodules in, and inflammation of, the nasal mucous membrane, and the disease runs an acute course. In man, the disease occurs in an acute and chronic form, but does not exactly resemble any of the varieties of the disease in the horse. The acute disease runs a rapid and malignant course. The skin may be covered with a pustular eruption. Furuncles, car- buncles, and abscesses beneath the skin and in the muscles are found. Nodules are found in the nasal mucous membrane, the lungs, kidneys, testes, spleen, and liver. The joints may be inflamed, and there may be osteo-myelitis. The disease may begin at a single point, so that it may be mistaken for a carbuncle, or a gangrenous erysipelas. Graefe gives a case which began as an acute exophthalmos, and the nature of the disease was not ascertained until after death. There were little nodules in the choroid coat of the e^Q.SUNSTROKE. 331 The chronic form of the disease is still more difficult of diag- nosis. The nodules grow very slowly, are hard, and may occur in groujjs, or like a string of beads. The nodules may soften and form deep, chronic ulcers. HYDEOPHOBIA. There are no characteristic lesions in this disease. Congestion of the nervous centres, and congestion and swell- ing of the mouth and pharynx, are observed in some cases. Decomposition usually commences soon after death. SUNSTROKE. During the hot summer months, cases of sunstroke are of fre- quent occurrence in New-York. The persons affected are, for the most part, adult male laborers, usually of intemperate habits. It is necessary to separate from the cases of sunstroke proper, when the patient is attacked while exposed to the heat of the sun, the cases of exhaustion from heat and fatigue, which may occur as well in the house. The patients who are seriously affected by sunstroke, exhibit, during life, an intense heat of the skin, convulsions, and coma. Death in many cases soon ensues. After death, decomposition sets in very early, owing to the state of the weather. In autopsies which I have, made within two hours after death, the increased heat of the skin was still maintained. The Brain and its membranes were in some cases congested ; in others not. Sometimes there was an increased amount of serum beneath the pia mater ; sometimes there were small and thin extravasations of blood beneath the pia mater, and between the pia and dura mater. In the other viscera there were no lesions except those due to the condition of coma, existing before death. The lungs and kidneys were frequently congested.832 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. » TRICHINIASIS. The Trichina spiralis is found in man, the pig, the dog, the cat, the rabbit, the guinea-pig, the rat, and in some birds, both in its undeveloped and in its fully developed form. In its fully developed form it is found in the small intestines, and less abundantly in the large intestine. It is a viviparous worm, with a long, rounded body, sharp at the head, rounded at the tail. The males are 1.5 mm. long, the females 2-3 mm. long. The intestinal canal runs the entire length of the body. The female organs of generation are simple, and placed for the most part in the second third of the body. The testicles are in the last third of the body. In its undeveloped form, the worm resembles a hair, is about 1 mm. long, and possesses no organs but an alimentary canal. It is rolled in a spiral form. From one to three worms are en- veloped in a capsule, which is at first thin and membranous, afterward calcified. In this condition they are scattered in im- mense numbers throughout the voluntary muscles, and may re- main so for an indefinite number of years. After a man has eaten uncooked flesh containing the unde- veloped trichina, the worms remain in his intestines, and by the second day have become fully developed and freed from their capsules. The females are impregnated, and by the eighth day bear immense numbers of young worms. By the tenth day, the young worms find their way through the connective tissue, and by the blood into the voluntary muscles. By the fourteenth day we usually find them encapsuled throughout the muscles. The muscular fibrillae become homogeneous, or break down into granular matter; the sarcolemma is thickened, and con- tracts at each end so as to form a cavity for the worm. Within this portion of the sarcolemma the cyst is formed by a harden- ing and calcification of the granular substance. At the same time there is a growth of lymphoid cells about the affected fib- rillse. New capillaries are formed about the capsule, and new muscular fibrillfe are formed to take the place of those which have been destroyed. (Wagner.) I have seen in one case, in which death took place on the four-333 DEATH FROM SUFFOCATION. teenth day after eating the infected flesh, the trichinse free be- tween the muscular tibrillse, and at the same time an abundant production of lymphoid cells in the interstitial connective tissue. We most frequently find the parasites with calcified cysts in persons of whose history we know nothing. But occasionally we meet with acute cases in which death has ensued in a short time from the effects produced by the trichina. DEATH FROM SUFFOCATION. By suffocation we understand that condition in which air is prevented from penetrating into the lungs. Many deaths from drowning and strangulation take place in this way. The methods in which the supply of air may be cut off from the lungs are very various. The mouth and nose may be closed by the hand, by plasters and cloths, by wrapping up the head in cloths, by covering the face with earth, hay, grain, etc. Foreign bodies may be introduced into the mouth, pharynx, and larynx. Blood may pass into the trachea from an aneu- rism, or from a wound. The glottis may be closed by inflamma- tory swelling. Matters which are vomited may lodge in the larynx. External Inspection. The body should be examined for marks of violence, the cavities of the mouth and nose for foreign substances. The face may be livid and swollen, or present a natural ap- pearance. The conjunctiva may be congested and ecchymotic. There may be small ecchymoses on the face, neck, and chest. The mouth often contains frothy blood and mucus. The tongue may be protruded. Internal Examination. The Brain and its membranes may be congested, or anaemic and oedematous, or unchanged. The Blood throughout the body is unusually dark-colored and fluid. The larynx may contain foreign bodies which have produced334 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. the suffocation. The mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi is congested and sometimes ecchymotic. These passages contain frothy blood and mucus. The Lungs are usually congested and oedematous, but some- times do not difier from their ordinary appearance. There may be small patches of emphysema on the surface of the lungs. Sometimes, especially in infants, small ecchymoses are found in the costal and pulmonary pleura. The Heart usually presents its right cavities full of blood, its left cavities empty. The Abdominal Viscera are usually congested. DEATH FROM STRANGULATION. Strangulation is effected by the weight of the body in hang- ing ; by pressure on the neck with the hands ; or by constric- tion of the neck by a cord of some kind. Death is usually produced by the pressure on the larynx and trachea; that is, by asphyxia. In some cases, death appears to be caused by pres- sure on the large vessels of the neck; and, in some cases of hanging, by fracture or dislocation of the cervical vertebrae. External Inspection. The face may be livid and swollen, the eyes prominent, the lips swollen, and the tongue protruded. These appearances, however, •are not the rule. Tlie greater number of those who die from strangulation cannot be distinguished by their faces from persons who have died in any otlier way. Erection of the penis, ejaculation of semen, and evacuation of ffeces and urine, are appearances on which some stress has been laid, but they do not appear to be constant or charac- teristic. In almost all cases, there are marks left on tlie neck by the implements which have produced the strangulation. In cases of suicidal lianging, the cord usually encircles the neck between tlie chin and the os' hyoides. The neck is but little compressed, while the cord leaves its mark behind the ears and on the sides of the occiput. When strangulation is335 DEATH FROM DROWNING. eflected by a cord or cloth drawn around the neck, the latter will bear a mark nearly encircling it. In both cases, the mark may be one or two lines deep, or very superficial. It corresponds in width to the cord which has pro- duced it. It is of a dirty yellow color, hard, and with the epi- dermis partly rubbed off; or it is of a bluish-red color and soft; or it is soft and not discolored ; or, very rarely, there are ecchymoses beneath it. The same mark may present all these appearances in different parts of its course. In cases of strangulation by the fingers, the impressions left by them present the same appearances, but correspond in shape to the fingers. Exactly the same appearances are seen in bodies which have been hung or strangled soon after death. Internal Examination. The Brain and its membranes may be congested, or there may be extravasation of blood, or there may be no abnormal appearances. The Neck.—In some cases, we find rupture of the cervical muscles, fracture of the os hyoides, fracture of the cartilages of the larynx, rupture of the intervertebral ligaments, fracture and dislocation of the cervical vertebrae, rupture of the inner and middle coats of the carotid arteries. Similar lesions can be produced in dead bodies, but only by the use of great violence. If death takes place from asphyxia, the larynx and trachea are congested and full of frothy blood and mucus; the lungs are congested and oedematous; the right cavities of the heart are full of blood ; the abdominal viscera are congested. There are cases of strangulation in which the results of the post-mortem examination are entirely negative. DEATH FROM DROWNING. In examining the bodies of persons who have been drowned, it is necessary to bear in mind a number of questions which may arise: Whether the person dame into the water alive or dead ; how long a time has elapsed since death; whether the336 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. person committed suicide, or was drowned by accident, or was murdered. Tliese questions are to be solved sometimes cer- tainly, sometimes with probability, sometimes not at all by the post-mortem examination. Maternal Inspection. It has been asserted that the bodies of drowned persons are colder than the average. The point has not, however, been determined by any exact thermometrical observations. The peculiar condition of the skin called cutis anserina is found very constantly before decomposition has set in, except in the case of new-born infants. This same appearance, how- ever, is frequent in persons who have died in any sudden and violent manner. Analogous to this is the retraction of the penis and scrotum in the male, and of the nipples in the female. Casper says that such a retraction is almost always present. We sometimes find sand, earth, weeds, etc., still grasped in the hands, or remaining under the nails. The rigor mortis appears to come on quickly; so that the body and limbs may be found still in the convulsed and dis- torted attitude which they assumed at the time of death. When the rigidity has passed oft", the limbs become relaxed. After tlie body has been in water for 12-2i hours the hands and feet become of a livid, grayish-blue color. After two or three days this change of color becomes still more marked, and the skin is wrinkled in long folds. In new-born infants the remains of the umbilical cord will not be found dried and mummified, imless the child was dead before it was placed in the water, or unless it was three or four days old before it was drowned. Decomposition takes place sooner in summer than in winter, sooner in stagnant water than in a running stream. As soon as a body is removed from the water to the air, putrefaction goes on much more rapidly. In bodies which have lain in the water decomposition begins in the face and head and goes downward, instead of its usual course of first appearing in the abdominal wall.DEATH FEOM DEOWNING. 337 The face, scalp, and neck are of a bluish, livid color, which soon changes to a red. The red next becomes mottled with greenish spots. The greenish spots become larger, and the dis- coloration extends down on to the thorax. The head and neck are swollen, the eyelids, nose, and lips project, extravasated blood, either fluid or coagulated, is found in the subcutaneous tissue. In this decomposed and softened condition, it is often very difficult to distinguish between the effects of ante-mortem violence and those of post-mortem putrefaction. Later the scalp is detached from the bones. The entire body is black and enormously swollen; the nails drop off; the joints are se- parated ; the muscles are saponified; the cavities of the abdo- men, thorax, and head are open. Internal Examination. Persons who have been drowned usually die from asphyxia. Sometimes, however, they die in some unknown way, without any evidence of asphyxia. These latter cases are said to die from syncope, or from neuro-paralysis. The lesions are corre- spondingly different. The Bravn.—Congestion of the brain and its membranes is only found in a small proportion of cases. Extravasation of blood has only been observed in a very few cases. The Air-Passages.—In persons who die from asphyxia the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi is usu- ally congested, the mucous glands are distended and appear like little vesicles, a quantity of frothy blood and mucous fills the air-passages. In those who die from syncope, these appearances are absent. Foreign substances from the water, and matters regurgitated from the stomach, may find their way into the air-passages during the act of drowning, or as a post-mortem occm-rence. The Ltmgs usually are much increased in size, so that they entirely fill the thorax and cover the heart. The increased size is due partly to the distention of the air-vesicles with air, and partly to the presence of the fluid in which the person was drowned, The fluid is inspired in the act of drowning. The 22POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 338 lungs are tisually congested, if the death is from asphyxia. They do not crepitate well, but have a spongy feeling. The Heart.—In those who die from asphyxia, the right cavi- ties of the heart are filled with blood, while the left cavities are empty. The Blood remains unusually fluid throughout the body, and is of a cherry-red color. The Stomach.—The fluid in which the person is drowned, mixed with earth, weeds, etc., may be swallowed during the act of drowning, or may find its way into the oesophagus and stom- ach after death. The Abdominal Viscera may all be congested in those per- sons who die from asphyxia. In those persons who do not die from asphyxia, but from syncope or neuro-paralysis, we find no lesions. DEATH FROM BURNING. Death may be caiised by the inspiration of smoke and flame; by the immediate effect of the burning; by secondary affections of the viscera; and by the exhaustion produced by the long continued inflammation and suppuration of the skin. The entire body may be burnt to a coal, or completely roast- ed, or only a larger or smaller area of the skin be burned. We find the burned skin divested of epidennis, and present- ing a peculiar red, hard, parchment-like appearance. If the patient has lived some time, this is replaced by a suppurating siirface. Or there are small, bladder-like elevations of the epidermis. The base of these blisters is red, and they are sur- rounded by a red zone, or suppuration may have commenced. These appearances cannot be produced by heat apjjlied to the skin after death. T7ie Brain may be congested, oedematous, or softened. More frequently it is normal. The Larynx and Trachea may be the seat of croupous inflam- mation. There may be oedema of the glottis. T/ie Lungs may be congested and oedematous, or hepatized, or the seat of pysemic infarctions.DEATH FROM LIGHTNING. 839 The Peritoneum may be inflamed. The Duodenum may be tlie seat of perforating ulcers. The Liver^ iSpleen, and Kidneys may be the seat of pysemic infarctions. DEATH FROM LIGHTNING. Persons wbo are struck by lightning may die instantly ; or may continue for several hours comatose, or delirious, and then either die or recover; or they may die after some time from the efi^ects of the burns and injuries received. The post-mortem appearances are very variable. Sometimes there are no marks of external violence. Sometimes the clothes are burnt and torn, while the skin beneath them is unchanged. Usually there are marks of contusion and laceration, or ecchy- moses, or lacerated, punctured v^ounds, or fractures of the bones, or superficial or deep burns. The track of the electric fluid may be marked by dark-red streaks on the skin. The internal viscera may be lacerated and disorganized in the same way.DEATH FEOM POISO^^mG. These examinations should be made with even more than the usual care. The external inspection of the body and the ex- amination of all the viscera should be thorough and detailed. Every appearance shoiald be noted at the time and nothing left to the memoiy. The stomach and intestines should be removed from the body and opened in separate clean vessels. After examining the ap- pearance of these organs, they should be placed each with its contents in clean glass jars, without the addition of any foreign fluid. Portions of the liver, spleen, kidneys, and brain sliould also be placed in separate glass jars. All these jars should be closely corked and sealed until they are given to the cheuiist for his examination. It is imj)ortant to remember that many poisons destroy life without producing any lesions, and that many cases of sudden death occur without any discoverable cause and without the possibility of poisoning. In bodies which are exhumed for examination, the preserva- tion of the viscera for chemical examination is often all that can be done. All the tissues may be so changed that it is im- possible to say what lesions have or have not existed. SULPHTTEIO ACID. The efifects of this poison vary with the amount taken, and its strength. Death usually takes place in from eighteen to twenty-four hours. Cases are recorded in which death took place in three quarters of an hour. "When the poison is less in- tense, the patient may survive for several months.DEATH FKOM POISONING. 341 The skin of the face about the month may be blackened and charred by the acid. The month and pharynx are of a grayish or blackish color, while the deeper tissnes are reddened. Sometimes these regions escape the action of the poison. The larynx, trachea, and Inngs are sometimes acted on, soft- ened and blackened by the accidental passage of the acid into them. This may even take place when the acid does not pass into the oesophagus. The oesophagns seldom escapes. It is grayish or blackish co- lored, softened, and the mncons membrane comes off in shreds. If life is pi'olonged, cicatrices and strictures are formed. The stomach is coated on its internal surface with a black, sticky layer beneath which the mucous membrane is reddened. Sometimes perforation takes place, and the acid blackens and softens the adjoining viscera. In protracted cases, cicatrices are formed, and the organ is contracted. If the poison is dilute, there may be only the lesions of chronic gastritis. The blood is thickened, syrupy, acid, and may form thrombi in the vessels. The body may be partially preserved from decomjjosition. Fatty degeneration of the renal epithelium is mentioned b}^ some authors. Sulphate of Indigo produces the same lesions as sulphuric acid. It also stains the tissues of a dark blue color. NITEIO ACID. The surface of the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus is covered with yellow eschars wherever the acid has touched it. Beneath and around the eschars the tissues are congested and red. The poison may be introduced into the oesophagus without acting on the mouth. The stomach con- tains a viscous, sanguinolent, yellow or greenish fluid. The mucous membrane is congested, red, swollen, and softened, ecchymotic. It is rarely perforated. The duodenum may be inflamed, and the inflammation ex- tend to its peritoneal coat. The rest of the intestines usually escapes from the action of the acid.342 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. • The larynx is very frequently acted on by the acid. There are yellow eschars, congestion and swelling of the mucous membrane, sometimes oedema of the glottis. The trachea may be inflamed, and the lungs congested. If the patient survives the first efiects of the poison, the lesions of chronic inflammation, cicatrization and contraction are found at a later period. The acid nitrate of mercury, if taken in a concentrated form into the stomach, produces the same lesions as nitric acid. HYDEO-CHLOEIC ACID. The lesions are much the same' as those produced by nitric and sulphuric acids. The eschars are of a whiter color, and it is more common to find false membranes on the inflamed sur- faces. OXALIC ACID. The dose of this poison which may destroy life is variable. Sixty grains may prove fatal, an ounce may not cause death. The same amount of poison does not always cause death at the same period. Three minutes and twenty-three days are the extremes; an hour is the usual time. The mucous mem- brane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus is white, or coated with brown vomit from the stomach. The stomach contains a dark brown, mucous fluid. The mucous membrane is pale, softened, brittle, and looking as if it had been boiled in water. Sometimes the mucous membrane is red and congested, some- times it is blackened and gangrenous. If life is prolonged, the whitened condition of the mucous membrane is succeeded by congestion and inflammation. The duodenum may be inflamed. In some cases of death from this poison, there are no well marked lesions. Oxalate of potash produces the same lesions as oxalic acid. TARTARIC ACID. This acid is seldom used as a poison. In large doses, it may prove fatal.DEATH FKOM POISONING. 343 The lesions in the cases observed were inflammation and red- ness of the entire alimentary canal. POTASH.—SODA. These alkalies and their carbonates are rarely used as poisons. They may destroy life in a few lioiu-s, or not until after several weeks. The mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach is blackened and softened in patches, swollen, congested, and inflamed. The larynx and trachea may also be inflamed and swollen. If life is prolonged, cicatrices and strictures of the oesophagus and stomach are produced. AMMONIA. The vapor of strong ammonia may cause death from inflam- mation of the larynx and air-passages. The strong solution of ammonia produces corrosion and in- flammation of the mouth, oesophagus, and stomach. The larynx, trachea, and bronchi are frequently inflamed, and may be coat- ed with false membranes. I have seen fatal inflammation of the rectum and colon pro- duced by an enema of strong solution of ammonia. NITEATE OF POTASH. This salt may prove poisonous in large doses. In the cases which have been observed, there was intense congestion and inflammation of the stomach, and in one case perforation of that organ. PHOSPHORUS. This substance has come into very common use as a poison, especially in Germany. The heads of lucif er matches are the favorite form of administering it. It is more commonly used to effect suicide than to destroy the lives of others. The poison acts very diff'erently in different cases. In somePOST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 344 cases, the ingestion of the poison is followed in a few minutes by vomiting, and the patient dies in a few hours. In other cases, there is at first vomiting, then very few symptoms until the third day. At that time the vomiting returns, there is jaundice, great prostration, syncope, delirium, and coma. In other cases, again, there may be no symptoms whatever for several days. ]S[ot infrequently there are no severe symptoms, and the patient suddenly and unexpectedly dies. The post-mortem appearances vary according to the length of time which elapses before death. If death takes place in a few hours, the only lesions are those produced by the direct action of the poison. The mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus usually escape. The stomach may be only slightly reddened, or there may be patches of inflammation and erosion. The contents of the stomach are often mixed with blood, and may have the peculiar smell of phosphorus. Tliere may be little bits of wood present wlien the poison has been taken on the heads of lucifer matches. It is said that the mucous membrane of the stomach may emit a phosphorescent light in the dark. If death does not ensue until after several days, the lesions are more marked. The body is usually jaundiced. There may be ecchymoses beneath the pericardium, pleura, and peritoneum, in the lungs, the kidneys, the bladder, the uterus, the miiscles, and the subcutaneous connective tissue. The Stomach usually presents no very striking changes. There may be small circumscribed spots of inflammation and erosion. The most constant change is a granular degeneration of the cells which fill the gastric follicles. In consequence of this, the mucous membrane appears thickened, opaque, of white, gray, or yellow color. The small intestine appears normal or is congested. The Liroer is found in difierent degrees of granular and fatty degeneration, and is often stained yellow from the jaundice. It is increased in size and of a grayish, grayish-yellow, or light yellow color, unless stained by the jaundice. Less frequently the centres of the acini are congested, or the entire liver is con- gested, or there are small haemorrhages in the liver tissue. TheDEATH FEOM POISONING. 345 consistence of the organ is at first flabby; in tbe later stages, that of the ordinary fatty liver. The hepatic cells are increased in size, granular, and, after a time, contain small oil-globules. The oil-globules afterward increase in size and number, but do not fuse together to fill each cell with a single oil-globule, as in the ordinary fatty liver. Finally there may be breaking down of the cells into a mass of fat and granules. In the interstitial tissue of the liver, we may find collections of lymphoid cells, also in the adventitia of the branches of the portal vein, and in the lobules. The Kidneys.—There is often granular and fatty degenera- tion of the epithelium of the tubes. There may be granular degeneration of the voluntary muscu- lar fibres throughout the body and in the heart. ARSENIC. From tAVO to three grains of arsenious acid is nsually consi- dered a fatal dose. But persons have recovered after taking a much larger quantity. Death usually takes place in from eighteen hours to three days. But persons have died within twenty minutes, and others not for twenty days. The mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus may be inflamed, but are more frequently unaltered. The stomach may be empty, or contain mucus mixed with blood. The arsenic in substance may be found adlierent to the mucous membrane. The entire inner surface may be red and inflamed, or there are patches or streaks of congestion. The inflamed patches may be thickened and covered with false membrane. There may be acute gastritis even when the poison is absorbed by the skin, and not introduced into the stomach; Taylor mentions a case in which the coats of the stomach were thickened and gelatinous, but not congested; or there may be degeneration of the gastric follicles as in phosphorus poisoning. The entire length of the intestine may be congested and in- flamed, but usually the action of the poison does not extend beyond the duodenum. In some cases, the solitary and agmin-POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 346 ated follicles are swollen, and the intestines contain wliite, rice-water fluid. The coats of the stomach are often preserved from decompo- sition for a long time after death. Death may be produced by arsenic without any well marked lesions. Arsenite of Copper, Scheele's Green, Paris Green is a favo- rite article in New-Tork for producing suicide. It is usually taken in considerable quantities, and is often found in the stomach after death. The lesions are the same as those pro- duced by arsenious acid. The sulphide and chloride of arsenic are sometimes used as poisons. The lesions are the same as those of arsenious acid. COEEOSrVE SUBLIMATE. The mucous membrane of the mouth is swollen and whitened. The oesophagus is swollen and white, or congested, or is un- altered. The stomach is usually contracted. There are inflamed and congested, sometimes gangrenous, patches of the mucous coat. Perforation is said to have occurred in one case. Small ecchy- moses in the mucous coat are not uncommon. Sometimes hardly any change can be appreciated. The intestines may appear normal, or there may be patches of congestion and ecchymoses. The larynx and trachea may be red and congested. The kidneys may exhibit granular and fatty degeneration of the epithelium. LEAD. The difierent preparations of lead may prove fatal either from the immediate efiect of large doses, or from the gradual effects of repeated small doses. Although there may be marked symptoms during life, the post-mortem lesions are few and variable. Large doses may produce acute gastritis. The kidneys are sometimes the seat of fatty degeneration. Chronic lead poison- ing may lead to chronic meningitis and changes in the brain substance.DEATH FEOM POISONING. 347 COPPER. Sulphate of copper and verdigris are sometimes employed as poisons. Tlie post-mortem appearances have only been ob- served in a moderate number of cases. The pharynx and oesophagus may be unchanged, or be somewhat inflamed. The stomach may be unchanged, or bits of the copper may adhere to its mucous coat; and there may be patches of inflammation, of gangrene, and even of perforation. TABTAU EMETIC. This preparation of antimony may prove fatal when admin- istered in a single large dose, or in repeated small doses. The post-mortem lesions are not constant. In cases of chronic poisoning there are usually no appreciable lesions. In cases of acute poisoning there may be evidences of acute inflammation of the oesophagus, stomach, intestines, and peri- toneum. The larynx may be congested, and the lungs may be engorged with blood. But none of these lesions are constant. VEGETABLE lEEITANTS. Aloes, colocynth, gamboge, jalap, scammony, savin, croton- oil, colchicum, veratria, turpentine. All these drugs sometimes produce poisonous effects. Vomiting, purging, and prostration are the usual symptoms. Congestion and inflammation of the stomach and intestines are the lesions which would be naturally looked for; but these lesions are sometimes present, sometimes absent. CANTH ABIDES. This substance may be given in powder or in tincture. The entire length of the alimentary canal may be found congested and inflamed. The kidneys, ureters, and bladder may be congested and inflamed.348 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. OPIUM. The post-mortem appearances in persons wlio have been killed by any of the preparations of opium are negative. Con- gestion of the brain and of the lungs are spoken of by most aiTthors, but they seem to depend principally on the way in which the patient dies, rather than on any specific action of the di'ug. HYDEOCYAJSriC ACID. Fatal doses of this poison destroy life in a very few minutes. The skin is usually livid, the muscles contracted. The stomach may be congested, and the venous system generally is unusually full of blood. The most characteristic condition, when it is present, is the odor of the acid exhaled from the stomach and tissues. This odor may remain for a long time after death. Cyanide of potash destroys life in the same way as hydrocyanic acid. The lesions are equally uncertain. The tissues and stomach often exhale the same smell of bitter almonds. Nitro-benzole produces the same symptoms and lesions as prussic acid. The odor of bitter almonds in the tissues is even moi-e intense. ALCOHOL. The different preparations of alcohol, when taken in large quantities, sometimes produce sudden coma and death in from half an hour to several hours. The bodies are said to resist decomposition for an unusual length of time. The stomach and tissues often have an alco- holic smell. There is congestion, and sometimes extravasation of blood in the brain and its membranes. The veins every- where are full of blood. The bladder may be distended with urine. Chronic alcoholic poisoning is of a different nature. The sub- jects of it may die from some other disease, or they die after a debauch without any thing else to account for their death. In the latter case, there may be delirium tremens, or the patient dies exhausted and comatose. Chronic alcoholism is not infre-DEATH FROM POISONING. 349 quently mistaken for meningitis. The dura mater is frequent- ly adherent to the skull. The pia mater is thickened and white, sometimes oedematous. The brain usually appears nor- mal. The lungs are usually congested. The heart is thickly covered with fat, and flabby. The stomach presents the lesions of chronic gastritis. The liver is fatty, cirrhosed, or both. The kidneys are in a condition of simple granular or fatty degeneration, or the seat of diffuse nephritis. CHLOEOFOEM. ETHEE. Chloroform may cause death when it is inhaled, and when it is taken in a fluid form into the stomach. Death from the inhalation of chloroform has become a tol- erably frequent accident in surgical practice. A very consi- derable number of post-mortem examinations of such cases have been recorded. They show that there is no constant or cha- racteristic lesion, nor is there any satisfactory explanation of the way in which such persons meet their death. Death from the swallowing of liquid chloroform is rare. Taylor gives a case in which a drachm killed a boy four years old. Adults can take with impunity a much larger quantity. I have seen one case in which four ounces proved fatal to a woman in a few hours. After death, there was a strong odor of chloroform when the stomach and duodenum were opened. The stomach was half full of undigested food. There were no lesions. Other cases are reported in which there was in- flammation of the stomach, and one case in which the liquid had passed into the larynx and trachea, producing intense in- flammation. Ether, given by inhalation, occasionally causes death. The post-mortem signs are negative. There is one death recorded by Casper, from its use in a fluid form. The cavities of the body exhaled a strong smell of ether; otherwise, there were no lesions.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 350 STRYCHNIA.—NUX VOMICA. We possess very few good records of post-mortem examina- tions after death from these poisons. The contraction of the muscles, which exists during Kfe, disappears after death. Tliere may be excessive congestion of the membranes of the brain. Casper mentions a peculiar violet color of the muscles of the pharynx and oesophagus. Otherwise there are no lesions. CONIUM, ACONITE, BELLADONNA, LOBELIA INFLATA, DIGITALIS, STRAMONIUM, VERATRUM. These vegetable poisons are administered in their natural form of leaves, berries, and roots, or in tinctures, infusions, and extracts, or in the form of their active alkaloid principles. If the leaves, berries, or seeds are given, they may be de- tected in the contents of the stomach by microscopic examina- tion. Otherwise the results of autopsies are unreliable. The brain and its membranes, and the lungs, may be con- gested. The stomach may present patches of congestion, in- flammation, and extravasation, or its entire mucous coat may be inflamed, or it may appear normal. GAEBONIO OXIDE. This gas is produced from burning charcoal, and forms the poisonous ingredient of illuminating gas. It is usually used as a poison in one of these forms. The most characteristic post-mortem appearance is that of the blood, which is of a brilliant red color. The muscles and viscera also appear red from the color of the blood in them. The viscera present the same changes as in death from suffo- cation. GAItBOLIC ACID. A number of cases of death from this poison have been re- ported during the last few years. It acts as a corrosive poison on the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, producing white eschars with intense congestion. The lungs are usually intensely congested.P^RT IV. TUMORS.TUMOES. Ant classification of tumors which can be given, at the pre- sent time, is in great measure a provisional one. Our know- ledge of these growths is not yet sufficient to enable us to speak of them with certainty. There can be no doubt, however, of the proper method in which the study of tumors should be pur- sued in order to arrive at more complete results. We know that all new growths are composed of the same anatomical ele- ments as exist in the normal tissues, although their arrangement and mode of growth may be different. We know that no ana- tomical element, whether existing in a normal tissue or in .a pathological new growth, has any inherent malignant or benig- nant properties. We know that no grouping or arrangement of such indifterent elements can give them any specific properties. The only scientific plan, therefore, is to begin at the beginning; to find out, by patient study, what is the exact structure, the mode of growth, and the relationship to the surrounding tissues of every new growth which can be observed. To this we must add in each case the clinical history, the age and condition of the patient, the situation of the new growth, whether it recurs after extirpation, whether it grows slowly or rapidly, whether it invades neighboring tissues, whether metastatic tumors of the same nature are formed in other organs. By an accumulation of such facts as these, we arrive nearer and nearer to an exact knowledge of tumors. The number of existing observations is already sufficient to enable us, from the anatomy of a tumor, its situation, and the history of its growth, to give a prognosis with greater certainty than can be done in most diseases. To classify tumors, therefore, we merely group them accord- ing to our present knowledge of their anatomy, with the expec- tation that this grouping is to be much changed by future in- vestigations. We are especially hindered at the present time 23POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. 354 by the prevailing uncertainty as to the exact anatomy of con- nective tissue. The classification and names of tumors which I give are, with some modifications, those proposed by Yirchovv, and adopted at the present day by most pathologists. We divide tumors into four classes : I. The Cysts. II. The simple Tissue Tumors. III. The Composite Tissue Tumors. IV. The Cellular Tumors. I. THE CYSTS. Cysts are of three kinds : (1.) Those which are formed in pre- existing cavities. (2.) Those which are new formations. (3.) Those which are formed by an abnormal development of the foetal tissues. (1.) Those which are formed in preexisting cavities : Extra- vasation, exudation, and retention cysts. The extravasation cysts are formed by the escape of blood into the serous sacs and natural cavities of the body. They are also called hsematoma and hematocele. The exudation cysts are formed by the exudation of serum into the serous sacs and natural cavities of the body. They are also called hydrocele and hygroma. The retention cysts are formed by the retention of the excre- tions of glands and the consequent dilatation of their follicles and ducts. They are subdivided into follicular cysts, mucous cysts, and retention cysts of large ducts. To the follicular cysts belong the forms called comedo, milium, molluscum, and atheroma. Atheroma (encysted tu- mor) is the only one of these which is usually classed with the tumors. It is formed by the closure of the mouth of a hair follicle. In consequence of this, the hair follicle itself, and the sebaceous glands which open into it, are dilated. In this way is formed a cyst with a smooth wall and cheesy contents. The contents are made up of fat, epidermis, granular matter, and cholesterine.355 TUMOES. The Mxicous Cysts are formed by the dilatation of mucous glands. They may be single, or composite from the dilatation of several follicles. They may project so as to form a sort of polypus. They are found in the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, nose, antrum, cervix uteri, vagina, and alimen- tary .canal. The retention cysts of larger canals are formed by dilatation of the ducts of the salivary glands, the pancreas, the mamma, the tubes of the kidney, etc. (2.) The cysts of new formation. (a.) Cysts produced by softening. Portions of solid tissue, either normal or pathological, may become softened and fluid, and in this way cysts be form- ed. Thus we find cysts full of fluid fat in fatty tumors ; cysts full of mucus or serum in fibromata, chondromata, and myoma- ta. In the sarcomata and carcinomata, this process is especially common. The most common ways in which the process takes place are by mucous degeneration of the tissue, or by a sort of circumscribed oedema. With these cysts may also be classed those formed in the tliyroid gland, and in adenomata of the ovaries by a colloid de- generation of the cells lining the gland follicles. (b.) Cysts, properly speaking, cystoma. These cysts may be produced by the irritation of extravasated blood, or of a foreign body. Or continued pressure on some part induces irritation and an accumulation of serum. Thus are formed the false bursas under corns, etc. Or cysts are formed as new growths in connective tissue in methods which are yet unknown to us. It is probable that some cysts are formed by dilatation of the lymphatic vessels. (3.) Dermoid Cysts.—In these cysts, the internal surface of the cyst-wall has the same structure as the skin. "We find in the cyst-wall hair and sebaceous follicles, sweat-glands, papillae, and an internal covering of epithelium. The cysts contain a gru- mous fluid in which are epithelium, fat, cholesterine, hair, teeth, cartilage, and bone. It is now generally held that these cysts are formed before356 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. birth by some cliange in the development of the tissues of the foetus. They are usually situated in the subcutaneous tissue. They are found in the orbit, in the floor of the mouth, in the neck, and less frequently in other regions. They are also found in the ovaries, the testicles, the membranes and the substance of the brain, the eye, the anterior mediastinum, the lungs, the mesentery and omentum, and aroxmd the uterus. Cysts lined vpith ciliated epithelium are found in the brain, the external ear, the liver, and the testicles. They have proba- bly the same natm-e as the dermoid cysts. II. SIMPLE TISSUE TUMOES. Fibroma, Myxoma, Lipoma, Chondroma, Osteoid-Chondroma, Osteoma, Myoma, Glioma, Psammoma, Neuroma. I. Fibroma.—Fibrous tumors. These are tumors composed of connective tissue fibres and cells ; the cells in small numbers. According to their external form we distinguish: (1.) Fihroma nodosum.—The tumors are rounded and nodular, composed of dense fibrous tissue. (2.) Fibroma diffusum, or Elephantiasis.—There is a difiused new growth of fibrous tissue from the deep layers of the cutis. (3.) Fibroma pajnllare. Papilloma.—The tumors are hyper trophies of normal papillae, or grow from surfaces where no papilliE exist. Tliey form papillarj^, or polypoid growths, often composed of branching tufts. They consist of a central stroma of connective tissue, often of the branched variety, with many, round cells, and are covered with epithelium. These tumors growTUMOES. 357 from the surface of the skin and of the mncons membranes, from the internal surface of the milk-ducts in the mamma, and from the walls of some cysts. They constitute a large part of the growths commonly called polypi. All the fibromata are, as a rule, local growths of a benignant character. II. Myxoma.—Fibro-cellular tumors, colloid. This name is given to tumors which are formed of mucous tissue. Mucous tissue consists of round, fusiform, and stellate cells imbedded in a gelatinous, transpai-ent, mucine-yielding basement substance. It is found in the umbilical cord, in the foetus as the first stage of adipose tissue, and in tlie adult in the vitreous body. The myxomata are tiimors of irregular form, lobulated, hav- ing a peculiar soft, gelatinous, semi-transparent appearance. They are identical in their minute structure with that of normal mucous tissue. Tliey are but seldom found as pure myxomata. It is much more common to find combinations with lipoma, chondroma, fibroma, and sarcoma. These tumors occur most frequently in adult life, but ar,i^ sometimes congenital. They usually grow as isolated tumors, except on the nerves, where they are multiple. They grow slowly ; inay attain a large size; are either inclosed in a fibrous capsTile, or invade the neighboring soft parts. The pure, uncombined myxomata have a merely local signifi- cance, but sometimes recur after extirpation. The combination forms with sarcoma, etc., have, on the other hand, well marked malignant characteristics, recur after extirpation, and form me- tastatic tumors. These tumors occur most frequently in the adipose tissue of the thigh, cheek, nates, hand, labia, mesentery, peritoneum, and pelvis of the kidney. In the female mamma, as intra-canalicu- lar growths; in the parotid gland; in the brain, spinal cord, and nerves; and in the bones, especially the maxillary bones, these tumors are not infrequently observed. The degeneration of the chorion, commonly called the hydatid mole, is classed by "V irchow with these tumors. The umbilicus in children some- times gives rise to these tumors.358 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. III. Lipoma.—Fatty tumors. This name is given to tumors composed of adipose tissue ; tliat is, of a stroma of connective tissue containing fet-cells. These tumors are of irregular shape, always lobulated, soft, movable, and may attain a great size. They may undergo calcification, ossification, may soften so as to form oil-cysts, and may become the seat of chronic inflam- mation and suppuration. The most important combination of the lipomata is with the myxomata. The lipomata may be single or multiple. They occur most frequently in adults, but are found in all ages and congenitally. They are sometimes hereditary. They are purely local, benign tumors. They arise in preexisting adipose tissue. They are found very frequently in the subcutaneous adipose tissue in all parts of the body; between the muscles; beneath the serous mem- branes, especially the peritoneum; beneath the synovial mem- branes, protruding into the cavities of the joints ; beneath the i^ucous membrane of the mouth, trachea, bronchi, stomach, in- testines ; in the female mamma ; in the kidneys; in the pia ma- ter ; and in the scrotum and labia. These tumors, when grow- ing beneath the skin, or the synovial, mucoxis, and serous mem- branes, may assume a polypoid form with a narrow pedicle. This pedicle may sometimes atrophy and leave the tumors free in the peritoneal or joint cavities. TV. Chondroma.—-Cartilaginous tumors. These tumors are composed of cartilage. The cartilage-cells may resemble those of normal cartilage, or may be deformed. The basement substance is hyaline, fibrous, mucous, or calcified. The tumors are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, lobulated, and divided up by bands of fibrous tissue. We may distinguish two varieties : The Ecchondroses and the Enchondromata. The ecchon- droses gi*ow from the permanent cartilages of the ribs, the synchondroses, the inter-vertebral cartilages, and the cartihiges of the larynx and trachea. They only reach a small size, and have but little importance. 1TUMOES. 359 The encliondromata most frequently grow from the medulla, or periosteum of the bones; in the salivary glands, the testis and mamma, but are also found in other regions. They may be single or multiple. They may reach a very large size. They are usually local growths of a benign character; but cases of recurrence and of metastatic tumors have been observed. F. Osteoid-Chondroma, Osteoid Cancer.—These tumors are composed of bone cartilage, such as we see normally existing as a stage of the ossification of the flat bones of the cranium. The cells are smaller than cartilage-cells, the intercellular substance is dense, or calcified. They are found especially at the ends of the long bones. Local recurrences after extirpa- tion and metastatic tumors are not uncommon. VI. Osteoma.—The formation of new bone, and the in- crease in size of normal bones, are of common occurrence. Only those bony growths, however, are classed among the tumors, which have a considerable size, are distinctly circum- scribed, and are not the result of inflammatory processes. The tissue of these tumors is the same as that of normal bone. The bone may be compact and hard, or cancellous and spongy, or separated by cavities containing medulla. Many of the fibrous and cartilaginous tumors may become ossified partially or entirely. Combinations of fibroma, chon- droma, sarcoma, and carcinoma, with osteoma, are not un- common. The osteomata occur either singly or may be developed in large numbers at once. They are found at all periods of life, and are sometimes congenital. They grow slowly and inter- ruptedly, usually without pain. They may be hereditary, or be caused by a blow, or may grow at the seat of a fracture. Eberth describes the case of a boy, in whom sixty-five osteo- mata were developed in the course of a year. The tumors ap- peared in groups, and each group was attended by a severe attack of fever. The osteomata are tumors of purely local significance and benign character. They grow from the bones, or from, the soft tissue. ThosePOST-MOETEM EXAMINATION'S. 360 wiiich grow from the bones are usually called exostoses, or, if they arise from the medullary cavity, enostoses. The exostoses are developed from the periosteum, and may occur on any of the bones. On the long bones, near the insertions of the tendons, exos- toses sometimes occur, which resemble the epiphyses. These exostoses grow out in a lateral direction, are formed of cancel- lous bone containing medulla, are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and may even be surrounded by a synovial sac. The name of Exostosis cartilaginea has been given to them. In the soft parts, osteomata are less frequent. They are found near to, but not connected with the bones. As small tumors of little significance, they are met with in the connec- tive tissue in different parts of the body. YII. Myoma.—This name is given to those tumors which are composed principally of muscular tissue. Such tumors may be composed either of voluntary or of or- ganic muscular fibres. The two varieties are called respectively Myoma striocellulare, and Myoma leevicellulare. Myoma Striocellulare.—These tumors are of very rare occur- rence. They have only been observed in the heart. Here they occur in the ventricular walls as single or multiple tumors. Such tumors have been observed three times in new-born children, and once in an adult. A new growth of striated muscle in composite tumors, especially in the testicle, is more frequent. Myoma Lcevicellulare.—This form of myoma is, on the other hand, very common. The tissue resembles that of organic mus- cle, long fusiform-cells running in parallel bundles, and mixed with a variable amount of connective tissue. The muscular cells may be very abundant, and the tumor be soft, of a loose, areolar texture and pinkish color ; or the fibrous element may be in excess, and the tumor be of a stony hardness, compact and white. These tumors may imdergo calcification ; portions may soften and break down so as to form cystoid cavities; serum may ac- cumulate in the soft, areolar varieties so as to form cysts; por- tions may become gangrenous ; fatty degeneration may occur;361 TUMOES. the muscular elements may atrophy and disappear, leaving only fibrous tissue; or the blood-vessels may become dilated, and form a cavernous tumor. Combinations of myoma Igevicellulare, with cysts, sarcoma, and carcinoma, are not infrequent. The myomata may be single or multiple. They occur most frequently after middle age. Their growth is slow, and they may become stationary, or even atrophy. Their significance is purely local. The most frequent seat of these tumors is the uterus. Here they are found usually at the fundus, are multiple, and are intra-parietal, submucous or subserous. The subserous and sub- mucous varieties often have a polypoid form, with a small pedi- cle. This pedicle may atrophy, and the tumor be left uncon- nected with the uterus. In the cervix uteri, vagina, broad liga- ments and ovaries, these tumors are less common. Less frequently, myomata are found in the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines. A certain number of the enlarge- ments of the prostate are due to the growth of myomata in this organ. VIII. Glioma.—This name is given to tumors which are composed of neuroglia. The neuroglia is the connective tissue of the brain. It is composed of a basement substance, which is amorphous and finely granular, or fibrillated, and of small, pale, round and oval cells, imbedded in the basement substance. The gliomata are composed of this same tissue, but with an increased number of cells. They are found in the brain, cranial nerves, and spinal cord. They look rather like hy|3ertrophies of some portion of the brain than like separate new growths. Their consistence is soft and mottled by small haemorrhages, or hard, with a denser basement substance. There is a form of retinal tumor, to which the name of glioma is also usually given, but which seems to belong more properly to the sarcomata. IX. Psammoma.—This name has been given to a form of tumor which occurs in the brain, usually growing from the dura mater. The growths are composed of bands of fibrous tissue, of small, round cells, fusiform cells, and cells362 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. resembling the epithelium of the dm'a mater; of blood- vessels, which may be solid or calcified; and of peculiar rounded, laminated bodies, which are partly or entirely calcified. These latter bodies are found normally in the ependyma and choroid plexus of the brain, where they are called brain-sand. It is from them that the tumor is named. Although these tumors are of not very infrequent occurrence, and many observations of them have been published, their real nature is still very uncertain. It is convenient, for the present, to give them all this common name, although it is quite possi- ble they may belong to different classes. X. Neuroma.—This name is applied to tumors which are composed of nervous tissue. Such tumors are found on the course of the nerves. They are not to be confounded with tumors of difi'erent structure—^fibromata, myxomata, etc., which also occur on the nerves. We distinguish two varieties according to the character of the nerve fibres. IsTeuroma myelinicum, composed of nerve- fibres, in which the white substance of Schwann is present. l^euroma amyelinicum, composed of small, gray nerve fibres, without the white substance of Schwann. Those of the first kind are much the easiest to recognize and demonstrate. Those of the second kind resemble very closely connective tissue, nr. COMPOSITE tissue tumoes. These are tumors composed, not merely of a simple tissue held together by connective tissue, but of several difi'erent tissues forming an organoid growth. "We distinguish : Angioma, Adenoma. I. Angioma.—This name is given to tumors which are princi- pally composed of a new growth of vessels. We distinguish three varieties : The Simple Angioma, the Cavernous Angioma, and the Cavernous Lymj)h-Angioma.TUMORS. 363 (1.) The Simple Angioma. These tumors are formed of a new growth of capillary vessels. They are situated in the skin, or in the subcutaneous tissue. The angiomata of the skin (nsevi) form flattened, red growths in the skin, not separated from the surrounding tissue, and gradually replacing the skin tissue. Those in the subcutaneons tissue are more circumscribed and nodular. They may be joined with a new growth of fatty tissue. The simple angiomata are, as a rule, congenital. (2.) The Cavernous Angioma is formed of a connective tissue stroma in which are numerous cavities, communicating with each other, and filled with blood. The inner surface of these cavities is lined with endothelium. The blood in the cavities is usually dark-colored and venous. They commnnicate with small arteries and veins, or with large arteries and veins ; they may pulsate. They are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, or are continuous with the surrounding tissues. These growths are congenital, or are formed at any period of life. (3.) Lymph-Angioma. A circumscribed new growth of lymphatic vessels sometimes occurs. The tumor has a cavernous structure, with its cavities filled with lymph, instead of blood. It forms part or the whole of some of the hypertrophies of the tongue, lips, and cheeks. It is usually a congenital condition, II. Adenoma.—This name is given to tumors which are com- posed of glandular tissue, not including the lymphatic glands. This is a group of tumors of which the limits'and character are not yet well determined. They are closely related in structure to some of the forms of epithelial cancer, and yet many of the growths seem to be entirely benign. The new glandular tissue follows the type of that of the re- gion where it is situated. Sometimes it is a simple hypertrophy of the normal glands of the part. In the skin, we find adenomata formed of the sebaceous glands and the sweat-glands. In the mucous membranes of the nose, stomach, intestines, rectum, gall-bladder, and cervix uteri, we find new growths of glandular follicles lined with cylindri- cal ej^ithelium.364 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. In the mamma, there are new growths of mammary glandu- lar tissue. In the ovaries, most of the compound cysts are adenomata with dilatation of the follicles. The ordinary bronchocele is an adenoma of the thyroid gland. Combinations of adenoma with sarcoma and papilloma are not infrequent. IV. CELLULAK TUMORS. This general and indefinite name is used, because it is general and indefinite, to group together a number of tumors of which we cannot yet decide the exact relationship. We include under it the following varieties : Tuhercle^ Syphilitic Gummata, Lujous, Lymphoma, Sarcoma, Carcinoma. I. Tubercle.—This name is now generally applied only to the small, gray, miliary granulations, which we find in the serous and mucous membranes and in many of the viscera. Even of these bodies we find different descriptions by different authors. In the pia mater, the little tumors are formed by an accumu- lation of lymphoid cells between the perivascular sheath of the small vessels and their outer coats. In other situations, the growths are made up of lymphoid cells, fusiform cells, large, many-nucleated bodies, (rayeloplaxes,) large flat cells with a single nucleus, and a delicate reticulum of branched fibrous tissue. Cheesy degeneration begins early at the centre of each little nodule. II. Syphilitic Gummata.—These growths stand on the border line between inflammatory growths and new growths proper. They form tumors from the size of a pin's head to that of a man's fist. They are composed of small, round, oval, and fusi-365 TUMORS. form cells, which have a strong tendency to undergo cheesy and fibrous degeneration. The larger tumors are formed by an ag- gregation of smaller growths. They are frequently associated with a new growth of fibrous tissue. They have been observed in nearly all parts of the body. III. Lujous.—This new growth is usually treated of with diseases of the skin. It consists in the formation of small round cells in the deep layers of the cutis. The cell-growth goes on until all the tissues of the skin are replaced by the round cells ; then the epidermis falls off, and ulcers are formed. These ulcers may become deep and broad, and if they cicatrize and contract, produce great de- formities. The gross appearances vary according to the size and distri- bution of the nodules of new growth, and their tendency to ulceration. lY. Lymphoma.—This name is given to tumors which are composed of tissue like that of the lymphatic glands, that is, of a delicate reticulum of branched fibrous tissue holding together a great number of small, round cells. The growth occurs as an hypertrophy of normal glands, and as an heteroplastic growth in connective tissue and in the viscera. V. Sarcoma.—This name is given to tumors which are prin- cipally composed of connective-tissue cells. According to the difierent forms of connective tissue, we can distinguish Sarcoma proper, composed of round, oval, fusiform, and stellate cells, with a fibrous basement substance. Myxo-Sarcoma, composed of the same cells, the stellate form predominating, and of a mucous basement substance. Chondro-Sarcoma, composed of cartilaginous tissue, but with the cells greatly in excess. Osteo-Sarcoma, composed of osteoid tissue, with the cells in excess. Glio-Sarcoma, composed of neuroglia, with the cells in excess. As it is customary to speak of connective tissue proper and of the connective-tissue group of bone, cartilage, mucous tissue, and neuroglia, so we may also speak of sarcoma proper.POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 366 having its type in connective tissne proper, and of myxo, clion- dro, osteo, and glio-sarcoma as belonging to tlie same group. Of sarcoma proper we also distinguish several varieties, ac- cording to the character of the cells and the amount of the basement substance. Thus, a sarcoma entirely composed of cells, with a very scanty stroma, is called a " medullary sarcoma." If the cells are nearly all of the spindle-shape, a sarcoma-fusocel- lulare. If there are many of the large nucleated bodies called myeloplaxes, a sarcoma gigantocellulare, etc. If the stroma is abundant, and the cells less numerous, we call it a fibro- sarcoma. Besides these forms, we also find tumors in which there are other anatomical elements in addition to those belonging to the connective tissue. A tumor may be partly formed of muscular tissue, myo-sarcoma; of glandular tissue, adeno-sarcoma; of fatty tissue, sarcoma lipomatodes, etc. Still further, Yirchow has given the name of lympho-sarcoma to a group of tumors Avhich begin in the lymphatic glands and have the same structure as them, but have the clinical history of sarcoma. These tiimors may grow from any point of the body where connective tissue exists. They are of very frequent occurrence. The group is a large one; and while there are some general laws which all obey, there are many modifications. Generally speaking, these tumors are, when of small size and of short duration, merely local growths. If completely removed, they may never recur, or not until after several years. When they grow quickly, become of large size, and invade the neigh- boring tissues, they are very malignant; recur soon after extir- pation, and form metastatic tumors in the viscera. The prognosis varies also with the situation of the tumor and with the age and condition of the patient. In the case of any given tumor, therefore, in order to give an intelligent prognosis, it is necessary to know the situation of the tumor, the time which it has been growing, and the age of the patient, as well as the anatomical characters of the growth. The different forms of sarcoma have been described under different names by various authors. Fibro-plastic tiunor,367 TUMOES. myeloid, tumeur k myeloplaxes, encephaloid, cancer, etc., are some of the names which have been employed. yi. Carcinoma.—This class of tumors is one of the most im- portant and, at the same time, one of the least understood. The name was formerly used to designate any malignant tu- mor ; now most authors endeavor to limit it to a particular form of growth. Generally speaking, we may say that these growths are com- posed of a connective tissue stroma containing cavities filled with cells, which resemble epithelial cells. Some authors lay the most stress on the arrangement of the cells ; others on their shape. Some hold that the new growth arises fi-om connective tissue ; others that it arises from normal epithelium. The pre- vailing idea just at present is that, both in the normal growth of the body and in the formation of pathological new growths, the different tissues are developed from the different germinal layers, and do not intermix. Consequently new growths of epithelium can only arise from preexisting epithelium. We may distinguish three varieties : Epithelioma, true carci- noma, colloid carcinoma. (1.) Epithelioma. Although at present the tendency is to call all the carcinomata epithelial growths, it is convenient to group together a certain number in which this structure is most regular. The epithelial cancers follow the type of the epithe- lium near which they grow. Those of the skin, mouth, and vagina are formed of large pavement epithelium. Those of the nares, larynx, alimentary canal, and bladder are formed of cylindrical epithelium. Those of the conjunctiva are formed of small pavement epithelium. The large pavement epithelial cells are usually packed closely together in large, irregular follicles, some of the cells being packed into concentric nests. The cylindrical epithelial cells are more regularly disposed in tubular follicles, or covering tufts. The small pavement epithelium usually covers small tufts. These epithelial cancers resemble the adenomata on the one side, and the true carcinomata on the other. They are usually368 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. looked upon as less malignant than the true carcinomata, but their prognosis is by no means good. (2.) True carcinoma consists of a connective tissue stroma and cells. If the stroma is abundant and dense, the growth is called scirrhus ; if the cells are abundant and the stroma scanty, the growth is called medullary. The cells do not exactly resemble normal epithelium, although they have that general character, but are often malformed in various ways. They are contained in regular tubular, ovoid, or rounded alveoli; or, if the stroma is scanty, apj)ear irregularly distributed. The prognosis of these growths is bad. (3.) Colloid Carcinoma. These growths have a gelatinous ap- pearance and consistence. They are formed of a fibrous stroma, which forms small, rounded cavities tilled with colloid matter and cells. The cells resemble pavement epithelium ; they are numerous, few, or absent. The colloid matter is said to be formed by a change in the cells; but in some of the smallest and youngest growths, we find alveoli filled with colloid matter and no cells. The prognosis of these growths is bad.IND EX. A PAGE Abdomen, Examination of 14, 21 Aconite, Poisoning by 350 Adenoma 363 Addison's Disease 327 Alcohol, Poisoning by 348 Ammonia, Poisoning by 343 Anenceplialia 52 Aneurism 114 Aneurism, Spurious 119 Aneurism, Varicose 119 Aneurismal Varix 119 Angioma 362 Apoplexy, Cerebral 55 Apoplexy, Meningeal 47 Appendix Vermiformis ... 156 Arsenic, Poisoning by 345 Arteries, Atheroma of 121 " Calcification of 122 " Canalization of 122 " Dilatation of 114 " Fatty Degeneration of.. 122 " Inflammation of 120 " Malformations of 114 Rupture of 118 " Stenosis of 117 " Waxy Degeneration of. 122 Wounds of 118 Arthritis 296 Ascites 167 Atheroma 121, 354 B Belladonna, Poisoning by 350 Bile-Ducts, Carcinoma of 197 FAGS Bile-Ducts, Constriction of. 196 " Dilatation of 196 " Fibroma of 197 " " Inflammation of 195 Biliary Calculi 197 Bilious Typhoid Fever 318 Bladder, Urinary 220 " " Carcinoma of.... 224 " Cysts of 224 " Dilatation of 221 " " Diverticula of... 221 " " Enchondroma of 224 " Fibroma of 228 " Hernia of 222 " " Hypertrophy of.. 221 '•■ " Inflammation of. 222 " Malformations of 220 " " Parasites of..... 225 " Rupture of 222 " Tubercles of 224 Bones, Abscess of. 286 " Angioma of 291 " Atrophy of 279 " Carcinoma of 294 " Caries of : 286 " Cysts of 292 " Enchondroma of 290 " Fibroma of 291 " Hyperostosis of 278 " Hypertrophy of 278 " Inflammation of 281 " Malformations of 278 " Necrosis of 287 " Osteoid Chondroma of.... 284 Osteoma of 290370 INDEX. PAGE Bones, Osteoporosis of 379 " Parasites of 395 " Ricltets 387 " Sarcoma of 392 " Sclerosis of 279 " Tubercles of 292 Brain, Abscess of 57 " Atrophy of 54 " Carcinoma of 59 " Convolutions of 12 " Embolism of 56 " Examination of 11 « Glioma of 59 " Hsemorrliage of 55 " Hypertrophy of 53 " Inflammation of 55-58 " Injuries of 54 " Malformations of 52 " Melansemia 59 " CEdema of 59 " Sarcoma of 59 " Sclerosis of 58 " Thrombosis 56 " Tumors 59 " The Ventricles of 49 " Yellow Softening of 58 Bright's Disease 209 Bronchi, Dilatation of 73 " Examination of 19 " Inflammation of 70 " Stenosis of 74 " Tumors of 74 Burning, Death by 338 C Oantharides, Poisoning by 347 Carbolic Acid, Poisoning by 350 Carbonic Oxide, Poisoning by.... 350 Carcinoma 367 Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 334 (Chloroform, Poisoning by 349 Cholera 333 Chondroma 358 Choroid Plexus, Angioma of 51 " Tumors of 51 (/olcliicum. Poisoning by 347 Colocynth, Poisoning by 347 I PAGE Colon, Position of 15 Conium, Poisoning by 350 Contusions 7 Copper, Poisoning by 347 Corrosive Sublimate,Poisoning by 346 Cranium, Examination of 13 Croton-Oil, Poisoning by 347 Cyclopia 53 Cystitis 322 Cysts 354 D Death, Period of. 7 Decomposition 4 Dermoid Cysts 355 Diaphragm of Infants 38 Drowning, Death by 335 Duodenum, Examination of 35 Dura Mater, Carcinoma of. 46 " " Cysts of 45 " " Examination of. 10 " " Gtummy Tumors of. 45 " " Haemorrhage of.... 43 " " Inflammation of.... 44 " " Osteoma of 45 " " Psammoma of. 45 " " Sarcoma of 46 " " Sinuses of 43 " " Tumors of 45 Dysentery 155 B Ecchymoses 8 Embolism 305 Encephalitis, Interstitial 58 Enchondroma 358 Eudarteriitis 121 Endocarditis 106 Endometritis 343 Endophlebitis 125 Ependyma, Inflammation of 51 " Tumors of 51 Epithelioma 367 Ether, Poisoning by 349 External Inspection of the Body. 8 Extra-uterine Pregnancy 258 Eyes, Examination of.. '. 13371 INDEX. PAGE Fallopian Tubes, Carcinoma of... 258 " Cysts of 257 " " Dilatation of 256, 257 " " Examination of 31 " Fibroma of 258 " " Haemorrhage of 256 " " Inflammation of 257 " " Lipoma of 258 " " Malformationsof 256 " " Myoma of 255 Farcy 329 Fibroma 356 Fractures 9 G Gastritis 139 Genito-Urinary Organs 29 Glanders 329 Glioma 361 Gout 329 Gummy Tumors 364 H Hsematocele 266, 241 Hfemorrhoids 160 Head, Examination of 9, 17, 35 Heart, Abscess of 105 " Aneurism of 109 " Atheroma of 106 " Atrophy of 102 " Carcinoma of 113 " Clots 18, llQ " Dilatation of 101 " Fatty Degeneration of 112 " Gummy Tumors of 113 " Hypertrophy of 100 " Inflammation of 104 " Malformations of 98 Myoma of 113 " Parasites of 113 " Position of ' 16 " Rupture of 103 " Sarcoma of 113 " Size of 19 " Thrombosis of 110 PAGE Heart, Tubercles of 113 " Valves of 107 " Waxy Degeneration of... 112 " Wounds of 103 Hejjatic Artery 186 Hepatic Veins 190 Hepatitis, Interstitial 177 " Parenchymatous. ..176,185 " Purulent 177 Syphilitic 182 Hernia Cerebri 54 Hernia of the Intestines 149 Hydrencephalocele 52 Hydrochloric Acid, Poisoning by. 342 Hydrocele 265 Hydrocephalus 50, 53 Hydrocyanic Acid, Poisoning by. 348 Hydronephrosis 215 Hydropericardium 95 Hydrophobia 331 Hydro pneumothorax 92 Hydrorachis 62 Hydrothorax 90 Hypospadia 359 I Infants, Age of 32 " Examination of 32 Infarctions 308 Intermittent Fever 320 Internal Examination of the Body 9 Intestines, Adenoma of 160 " Angioma of. 160 " Calcification of 161 " Carcinoma of. 161 " Concretions of 162 " Dilatation of 159 " Diverticula of 148 " Emboli of 159 " Examination of 25 " Fibroma of 160 Hernia of 149 " Incarceration of 152 ' " Inflammation of 155 " Intussusception of.... 153 " Lipoma of 160 " Lymphoma of 161INDEX, 372 Intestines, Malformations of 148 '■■ Myoma of 160 " Parasites of 162 " Prolapse of 154 " Rupture of 154 " Sarcoma of 161 " Stenosis of 159 " Transposition of. 154 " Tubercles of 161 Ulceration of 158 " Waxy Degeneration of 161 J Joints, Fibroma of 299 " Inflammation of 295 " Lipoma of 299 " Loose Cartilages in 299 " Malformations of 295 K Kidney, Adenoma of 219 " Angioma of 219 Calculi of 217 " Carcinoma of 219 " Changes in Position of. , 207 " Clironic Congestion of. . 208 Cysts of 216 " Examination of 21 Fibroma of 218 " Gummy Tumors of 219 " Hsemorrliage of 208 " Infarctions of 214 " Inflammation of 209 " Lipoma of 218 " Lymphoma of 219 Malformations of 206 Myxoma of 218 " Parasites of 219 " Parenchymatous Dege- neration of. 212 " Precipitates in 217 Sarcoma of 219 Tubercles of 218 " Waxy Degeneration of.. 213 L LuTynx, Examination of 20 PAGE Larynx, Inflammation of 66 " Malformations of 66 " Parasites of 69 " Perichondritis of 67 Tumors of 68 Lead, Poisoning by 346 Leukaemia 329 Lightning, Death by 33!) Lipoma 358 Liver, Abscess of 177 " Adenoma of 191 " Angioma of 190 " Atrophy of 174 " Carcinoma of 193 " Chondroma of 190 " Cirrhosis of 178 " Cysts of 192,194 " Examination of 26 " Fatty Degeneration of.... 182 " Fibroma of 190 " Gummy Tumors of 192 " Haemorrhage of 17.") " Hyperseniia of 172 " Hypertrophy of .■. 175 " Induration of 181 " of Infants 38 " Inflammation of 176 " Injuries of 172 ■ ' Lymphangioma caverno- sum 193 " Lymphoma of 191 " Malformations of 170 " Parasites 194 " Parenchymatous Degene- ration of 185 " Pigmentation of 184 " Position of 14, 171 " Sarcoma of 192 " Size of 28,171 " Waxy Degeneration 183 Locomotor Ataxy 64 Lungs, Abscess of 82 " Apoplexy of 76 " Atalectasis 7!) " Congestion of 75 " Emphysema of 77 " Examination of 19373 INDEX. PAGE Ijungs, Gangrene of 83, 83 " Gummy Tumors of 88 Hydrostatic Test 37 " of Infants 87 " Infarctions of 77 " Inflammation of 80 " Injuries of 75 " Malformations of 75 " ffidenia of 75 " Parasites of 89 " Pijrment, Induration of.. 79 " Tubercles of 86 " Tumors of 86 Lupus 365 Lymplioma 365 M Mamma, Adenoid Sarcoma of ... 275 " Adenoma of 274 " Carcinoma of 276 Cysts of 273 " Enclioudroma of 274 Fibroma of. 273 " Haemorrhage of 272 " Hypertrophy of 273 " Inflammation of 271 " Lipoma of 274 " The Male 277 " Malformations of 271 " Myxoma of 275 " Parasites of 277 " Sarcoma of 275 Malarial Fevers 320 Mediastinum, Inflammation of. .. 93 Tumors of 93 Meningitis 47 Cerebro-Spinal 324 " Chronic 48 Spinal 62 " Tubercular 49 Method of Examination 3 Metritis 243 Microcephalia 53 Mouth, Adenoma of 129 " Carcinoma of 130 " Epithelioma of 130 " Gangrene of 129 Mouth, Hypertrophy of 127 " Inflammation of 128 " Malformations of 126 Papilloma of 129 Ulceration of 129 Myelitis 64 Myocarditis 104 Myoma 360 Myxoma 357 N Nephritis, Acute diffuse 209 " Chronic diffuse 209 Glomerulo 209 Peri. 212 Pyelo 211 Nitrate of Potash, Poisoning by. 343 Nitric Acid, Poisoning by 341 Neuroma 362 O (Edema Glottidis 67 Oesophagus, Dilatation of 134 " Epithelioma of 135 " Examination of.... 20 " Inflammation of.... 133 " Malformations of.... 132 " Stenosis of 135 " Tumors of 135 " Ulceration of 134 Omentum, Position of 15 Opium, Poisoning by 348 Osteitis 283 Osteoid-Chondroma 359 Osteoma 359 Osteomalacia 289 Osteomyelitis 282 Ovaries, Atrophy of 251 " Carcinoma of 256 Cysts of 253 " Enchondroma of 255 " Examination of 31 " Fibroma of 255 " Gummy Tumors of 255 " Haemorrhage of 252 " Inflammation of 252 " Sarcoma of 255INDEX. 374 Ovaries, Tubercles of 255 Oxalic Acid, Poisoning by 342 P Paccliionian Bodies 11 Pacbymeningitis 44 Pancreas, Examination of 27 " Inflammation of 203 " Malformations of 201 Tumors of 202 " Waxy Degeneration of. 202 Pancreatic Ducts 203 Papilloma 356 Penis, Atrophy of 260 " Carcinoma of 262 " Epitbelioma of 262 " Examination of 29 Fibroma of 262 " Hypertrophy of 260 " Inflammation of 261 " Malformations of 259 " Papilloma of 261 Periarteritiis 120. Pericardium, Examination of... , 16 " Haemorrhage of.... 96 " Inflammation of.... 96 " Injuries of 95 " Malformations of... 95 " Pneumatosis of.... 96 " Tumors of 97 Perihepatitis 176 Periostitis 281 Periphlebitis 124 Peritoneum, Carcinoma of 169 Fibroma of 168 ' Gangrene of. 167 " Hagmorrhage of 163 " Inflammation of.... 164 " Lipoma of 168 " Malformations of.... 163 " Parasites of 170 " Sarcoma of.... 169 Tubercles of 170 Perityphlitis , 156 Pharynx, Epithelioma of 135 " Examination of 20 " Inflammation of 133 PAGE Pharynx, Malformations of 133 Tumors of 135 " Ulceration of 134 Phlebectasia 133 Phosphorus, Poisoning by 343 Phthisis, Catarrhal 84 Fibrous 86 Tubercular 86 Pia Mater, Examination of 10 " " Haemorrhage of 47 " " Inflammation of 48 " " Parasites of 49 " " of Spinal Cord 61 " " Tumors of 49 Pineal Gland 61 Pituitary Body 61 Pleura, Haemorrhage of 90 " Inflammation of 90 Tumors of 93 Pleural Cavity, Examination of. .16,19 Pneumonia, Catarrhal 82 " Croupous 80 " Hypostatic 83 " Interstitial 83 Poisons 340 Portal Vein, Calcification of 190 " Dilatation of 189 " Rupture of 189 " Thrombosis of 186 Potash, Poisoning by 343 Prostate, Atrophy of 269 " Carcinoma of 270 " Hypertrophy of 269 " Inflammation of 270 " Myoma of 370 Tubercle of 270 Psammoma 361 Pseudo-Leukaemia 329 Pyaemia 303 R Relapsing Fever 320 Remittent Fever 320 Respiratory System 66 Rickets 387 Rigor Mortis 5INDEX. 375 s PAOE Sarcoma 365 Scars 9 Sclerosis of the Brain 58 Scrotum, The 202 Scurvy 326 Septicaemia 303 Soda, Poisoning by 343 Spinal Cord, Examination of..... 13 " " Haemorrhage of.... 64 " " Inflammation of.... 64 " " Inj uries of 63 " " Malformations of... 63 " " Membranes of 61 " " Sclerosis of 64 " " Tumors of 65 Spina Bifida 62 Spleen, Examination of 24 " Hypertrophy of 198 " Inflammation of 199 " Malformations of 198 " Parasites of 201 " Eupture of 199 " Tumors of 200 " Waxy Degeneration of.. 200 Stomach, Adenoma of 147 " Carcinoma of 144 " Degeneration of 148 " Dilatation of 143 " Examination of 25 " Fibroma of 147 " Haemorrhage of 138 " Inflammation of 138 " Injuries of 138 " Lymphoma of 147 Malformations of 137 " Myoma of 146 " Position of 15 " Post-mortem changes in 137 " Sarcoma of 146 Softening of 137 Stomatitis 138 Stramonium, Poisoning by 350 Strangulation, Death by 334 Strychnia, Poisoning by 350 Suffocation, Death by 333 PAGE Sulphuric Acid, Poisoning by. .. 341 Sunstroke 331 Supra-renal Capsules, Degenera- tion of 205 Supra-renal Capsules, Examina- tion of 23 Supra-renal Capsules, Haemor- rhage of 204 Supra-renal Capsules, Inflamma- tion of ■ 204 Supra-renal Capsules, Thrombosis of 204 Supra-renal Capsules, Tumors of. 305 T Tartar Emetic, Poisoning by.... 347 Tartaric Acid, Poisoning by 343 Tattoo Marks 9 Temperature after Death 6 Testicle, Carcinoma of 268 Cysts of 267 " Enchondroma of 267 Fibroma of 266 " Gummy Tumors of 269 " Inflammation of 264 " Lipoma of 266 " Malformations of 263 Myoma of 268 " Myxoma of 267 Sarcoma of 268 Tubercles of 267 Thorax, Examination of 14-16 Thorax of the Infant 36 Thrombosis 305 Tongue, Cysts of 131 " Hypertrophy of 131 " Inflammation of 131 " Malformations of 130 " Tumors of 131 Trachea, Dilatation of 69 " Inflammation of 70 " Malformations of 69 " Tumors of 70 Trichiniasis 333 Tubal Pregnancy 358 Tubercle 364II^DEX. 376 PAGE Tumors. 353 Typhlitis 156 Typlioid Fever 309 Typhus Fever 319 U Urethra, Dilatation of 225 Examination of 29 Fibroma of 227 " Inflammation of 327 " Malformations of 225 Perforation of 226 Strictures 225 Tumors 227 Uterus, Angioma of 248 " Atrophy of 239 " Carcinoma of 249 Cysts of 248 Dilatation of 237 " Examination of 29 Fibroma of 247 Flexions of 338 " Gummy Tumors of. 348 " Hsematometra 237 " Haemorrhage of 241 Hernia of 239 Hypertrophy of 337 " Inflammation of 242 " Malformations of 235 " Myoma of 244 " The normal 30 " Parasites of 250 Prolapse of 239 Rupture of 240 " Sarcoma of 248 ' Tubercles of 248 V Uterus, Ulceration of 244 " Versions of 238 " Waxy Degeneration of.. 244 Vagina, Carcinoma of 235 Cysts of 234 Dilatation of 232 " Hernia of 23g " Inflammation of 234 " Malformations of 232 " Myoma of 234 Papilloma of 234 " Prolapse of 232 " Sarcoma of 235 " Tubercles of 334 " Wounds of 233 Veins, Carcinoma of 1215 " Dilatation of 123 " Inflammation of 124 " Myoma of 125 " Parasites of 126 " Rupture of 124 Vulva, Carcinoma of 231 " Cysts of 231 " Enchondroma of 231 Fibroma of 230 " Haemorrhage of 229 " Inflammation of 230 " Lipoma of 231 " Lupus of 231 " Malformations of 229 W Wounds 8 Y Yellow Fever 322i