LET (316) LEN take a feather or brush and rub them over witli raelied butter, and then sift over them some double-refined sugar. Lemon JVafcrs.—Squeeze the juice of six lemons into a basin ; pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon-juice; put tlie white of one egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good consistence; take some sheets of wafer-paper, and put one sheet of it on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl; when they are halfcurletJ, take them on very carefully and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that they may stand up; let them be in the hot stove one day, atid you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. Lemon JValer.—Put two slices of thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit oftlie peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoon- ful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close for two hours. Lemon IVater Ice. — To a pint of lemon-juice,'put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it. Lemon {White) Conserve.— Boil a jiound of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at dillerent times, stirring con- tinually ; it v/ill make the sugar as white as milk if properly done; take care not to drop any of the seeds into it; work it well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same man- ner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. Lemon conserve is made in the same manner, only that the sugar must be boiled to a greater height than for white lemon conserve. LENTILS.*—Choose them large and white, and, after having washed and picked them, boil in water; rvhen done, fricassee them like white kidney-beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not much used to fricassee, but is the best to make culli®, both from the colour being finpr,'and the flavour better. Lentie Cnllis.—Make a meat gravy with veal, ham, onions, parsley,scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches, add seme stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat; give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be loo tliick. Lentils,/rfcawerf.*—Make a light roiix, in which put some sweet lierbs, or onions cut in dice; give tliem a few turns in tlie rnux; to which add a little stock, or water; when well mixed, put in the lentils with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. Lentils d la Mat (re d’Hotel.*—B]nnch and drain your lentils, put them into a pan with a good bit of butter, slired par- sley and scallions, salt, and pepper; fry them lightljq and serve them very hot. Lentii.s d la MaUre d’Holet.*—Boil some lentils in salt and water; tlien drain tliem, and put tliem into a saucepan, with a large piece of butter; shred par- sley, some salt, and pepper; toss them in H stewpan, and serve tiiem hot. Gar- nish with crusts of bread round. Lentils, Puree of.*—Take two pints of lentils, and do them in the same man- ner as dry peas; when done, take out the vegetables, bacon, and beef; strain tlie lentils, and put them into a stewpan, with ttiree or four ladiesful of espugnole. This puree requires nioie liquid than the peas, as it will take a longer time to colour; skim it well, and be careful not to make it too thick. When pro- perly reduced, put it into another sauce- pan, and set it bv till wanted. LETTUCES d l’Espagnole.*—\\w&\\ some lettuce-hearts; boil them about twenty minutes in plenty of water with salt in it; then press out all the water ; put pepper and salt inside the lettuces, and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and bacon, two carrots cut iii pieces, three onions, two cloves, and a bay-leaf; put in the lettuces, with bacon over them ; moisten with stock and the remains of broth; when they liave simmered an liour, put the lettuces in a doth, press out all the moisture, untie and glaze them. Dish them, en couronne. with croutons, nearly the same size. Serve an espugnole Siiuce under them. Lettuces, Frferf.*—Clioose your let- tuces small and round; trim and tie them up, put lliein into a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a buncli of sweet herbs, and stock; braise tliem in this till nearly done; take them out. press them in a clotli; when cold, dip them in batter and fry tliem. Lettuces, Uarlnire rf.*—Put about tliirty lettuces into boiling water, and blanch them for half an liour; then let tliem cool; press out all the water, tie them up. line a stewpan with slices of veal and b.acon ; lay tlie lettuces on this,