CAN ( 112) CAN fry them in good olive oil, to a nice co- lour, and drain them. Take some an- chovies, hard eggs, (tlie yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, &c. chop them small, place them on the fried oread, (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole, and serve this as a side dish. Canapes.*—Roll out three (juarters of a pound of pufl-paste, keeping it long and narrow; uo not let it be more than a quarter of an inch thick, and aboufthree inches wide. Cut the paste across with a sharp knife, in slips tliree-eighths of an inch in width, and_ place them on the cut side, on a baking-plate, each two inches apart; bake them in a hot oven, and when nicely coloured, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. When done, remove them from the plate; and just before they are served, mask them with apricot marmalade, or any other you may like better, and arrange them on your dish en couronne. Canapes with Pistachios,*—Make the canapis according to the above direc- tions. When glazed, whip up the white of an egg with an ounce of fine sugar; cover the ca?iapts with this, and then mask them with pistachio nuts, chopped small. Garnish them with apple-jelly. The canapes may be glazed and masked with any sort of sweetmeat or jelly you may think proper to use. CANAPIES.—Cut some pieces of the crumb of bread about four inches long, three inches wide, and one inch thick, fry them in boiling lard, till of a light brown colour; then put them on a drainer, and cut into slips some breast of fowl, anchovies picked from the bone, pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue. Then butter the pieces of bread on one side, and lay upon them alternately the different articles, till filled. Trim the edges, and put the pieces (cut into what form you please) upon a dish, with slices of lemon round the rim ; and serve in a sauce-boat, a little mixture of oil, vine- gar, cayenne pepper, and salt. CANARY [Artificial). — Fill a cask that has contained good Malaga wine with spring-water, and for each gallon of water, put six pounds of Malaga raisins bruised, and over every twenty gallons, sprinkle a handful of calx-wine. Close the cask; cover it with cloths, and let it stand four or five days in a warm place to ferment; then open it, and should the raisins float, press them down ; cover it again, and let it stand a month, looking at it, and pressing down the raisins as above, every four or five days. At the month’s end, tap the vessel a few inches above the bottom, and if the liquor is properly flavoured, draw it off into another Malaga cask; and to every twenty gallons add a pint of brandy, a quart of Alicant wine, two eggs well beaten, and let it stand till fit for drink- ing. A little loaf-sugar may be added if not sufficiently sweet. Put into the whole a small quantity of white wine, or good cider, to make it brisk. CANDYING.— Fruit intended for candying must be first preserved, and dried in a stove before the fire, that none of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the use of candying must be thus prepared : put into a tossing-pan a pound ot sugar, with half a pint of water, and set it over a very clear fire. Take off' the scum as it rises; boil it till it jooks clear and fine, and take out a little in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat, ■rhen boil your syrup, and when it be- gins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into too thick a syrup, especially at the first, as it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and flavour are thereby destroyed. Candv [to), Flowers.—Take the best treble-refined sugar, break it into lumps, and dip It piece by piece into water; put them into a vessel of silver, and melt them over the fire; when it just boils, strain it, and set it on the fire again, and let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you may perceive by holding up your spoon ; then put in the flowers, and set them in cups or glasses. When it is of a bard candy, break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, and it will look like sugar-candy. Candy [all Sorts of Fruit). — When finished in thesyrup,DUtalayerintoanew sauce, and dip itsudaenly into hot water, to take off"the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some mere on the sieve. Have ready-sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides, till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of the sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. CANELLONS.—Make a stiff paste, with a little melted butter, a spoonful or two of water, some rasped lemon-peel. an egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin ; make a little cane of card-paper, butter it well on the outside, and » rap it in some of the paste; bake it a few mi- nutes; take out the card, and fill the