ox (371) 0 X F shred small; then put them into a sauce- !i pan, with n small quantity of flour, a Ij spoonful of velonte, salt, and pepper ; let f| these boil till pretty well reduced ; just ll before it is served, add two or three yolks li of eggs, and some cream, a little verjuice, ll or vinegar. Ox / alates a la Proven<;ale.—Brnwe, II and cut some ox palates into small pie- ces ; put them into a stewpan, with some butter, two spoonsful of oil, two chopped ll sbalots, a clove of garlic, five or six tar- ragon leaves, mushrooms, parsley, salt, whole pepper, and grated nutmeg; when ! these have simmered for a quarter of an ll hour, add a glass of white wine, the same of eiillis, and consoninii, then give the whole one boil, take oS’the fat, and serve with a little lemon-juice. Ox Palates, Roasted.—Boil them until I, they are tender, blanch them, cut them into slices, about two or three inches in '! length; take some pigeons, and very ll small chickens, draw, truss, and fill them 11 with forcemeat; let halfof them be nearly larded, spit them on a bird-spit in the j following mannera bird, a palate, a sage-leaf, and a bit of bacon ; have ready two sweetbreads, cut in pieces, some artichoke bottoms, cut in pieces, some oysters, and some blanched cockscombs, all fried ; rub the dish with some shalois, I lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what I is roasted in the middle, and arrange the 1 other things round them. Then make a I sauce in the following manner: a quarter < of a pint of red wine, a pint of gravy, the i liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little I lemon-juice, and a bit of butter rolled in [ flour ; let it boil till it has obtained the ! consistence of cream ; then pour it over the palates in the dish. Ox Palates, Stented. — Thoroughly 1 clean four or five palates, put them into ( a pan with sufficient water to cover them; I tie them down, and bake, or boil them ; I when tender, peel them, cut them into 1 pieces, flour them, put them into some I good gravy, with an onion, a few pounded ; cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and some ketchup, let them stew for half an hour, d take out the lemon-peel and onion ; add a some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon- i juice. Garnish with sliced lemon. Ox Palates, Timbale of. — Having J blanched the palates as usual, cut them i into lozenges, have a timbale ready, at i the bottom of which put a layer of godi- i veau, or other farce, then a layer of the 1 palates, another of the farce, and on tliat J one of truffles cut in thin slices, and 1 proceed in this manner till the timbale is I quite full; cover the whole with rasp- ! ings, and pour a little beef gravy, or rich (I broth into it, and bake it to a nice colour. I Ox Tail, with Cabbages-.—Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it into some broth, with a bunch of parsley, shalots, a bay-leaf, and three cloves; in an hour’s time add a savoy (previously_ scalded), a pound of pickled pork, cut in pieces, salt, and pepper, when done, take it out, drain off' all the fat, and put the whole' into a tureen, together, with cullis, or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. Ox Tail braised en Hochepot.*—Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour; put it into cold water, drain and trim it. Lay slices oflbacon, and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves) a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and some stock ; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for two hours ; when done, lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots, cut in pieces, and done up in a little veUiute, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces, braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles, instead of the lettuces, according to taste. Ox Tail, d la Ste. Mewe/towfrf.*—Pre- pare and braise an ox tail as for Hoche- pot; when done, season them with salt and pepper ; soak them in melted but- ter, bread them twice, and colour them in the oven or on the gridiron. Ox Tail Pie (Hot).*—Braise two or three ox tails; when about three parts done, take them out and cut them in pieces; prepare your pie, at the bottom of which, lay a slice or two of ham; then put in the tails, cover them with bacon and thin slices of bacon, finish the pie and bake it; when done, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour into the pie a rich sauce of any kind. Ox Rtimp This soup made with two or three rumps of beef will be much stronger than when made with a mucli larger quantity of meat without the rumps. It is made in the same manner as gravy-soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you think proper. OXFORD John.*—Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin collops as you can, cut out all the fat sinews, season them with salt, pepper, and mace ; strew amongst them a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots; put a good lump of butter into a stewpan; as soon as it is hot, put in all your collops, keep stirring them with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done; then add half a pint I