O LI ( 355 ) o M E bottoms (trimmed properly tmd cooked in a blanc), twenty-four glazed onions, a few small carrots and turnips cut into olives, blanched and dressed in a litlle consomme and sugar, some French beans cut in lozenges, young beans, peas, and cucumbers, all blanched separately. Di’ain the meat and vegetables, strain the liiuor, skim and clarify and keep it boiling. Press the cabbages and lettuces, and dish them as follows:—A piece of cabbage, a carrot, a lettuce, a turnip, and cabbage again, and_ so on, till you have made a complete circle round your dish, in the centre put the peas and meat, arrange the artichoke-bottoms on the vegetables at equal distances, a glazed onion between each, and haying tossed up the small vegetables in a little butter and glaze; place a few in every one of the artichoke-bottoms. Glaze the whole and serve it. Olio, SjMrwiVi.—Take some gristles from a breast of veal, also from a brisket of beef, and from a breast of mutton, some sheep’s rumps cut in pieces; they must all be about the size of a finger; take also five pounds of beef-steaks, and put them into a stewing-pan, with a quantity of beef stock, a bunch of leeks, a large bunch of celery picked very clean; they must be stewed till the rumps and gristles are tender ; then put in a couple of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two pair of hog’s feet and ears, the knuckle end of a ham, half of a fine white cab- bage, some pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves; cover these over with some thick beef steaks, and over them some veal-steaks, pour a little fresh stock upon them, and leave them to stew over a gentle fire; let the whole stew till the liquor is eva- porated and the ingredients begin to stick at the bottom ; then put in more stock ; while these are stewing, set on some large peas that have been previously soaked in water for four and twenty hours; set these on to boil in some gravy. The Spaniards make use of a kind of peas, called Garavances; they are large, and not unlike our grey peas; hut if these are not to be had, any large peas will do; these must be boiled very tender, and be ready at the same time as the olio. As the stock boils away, put in more, which must boil a quarter of an hour ; season the olio according to taste, with pepper and salt; have ready a large soup-dish, take out the ingredients, one by one, lay them in the dish; the gristles and the roots must he dispersed about among the other things; then pour over them the peas and their gravy, and then put in a proper quantity of gravy. It must not be eaten as a soup but as an olio, the ingredients in preference to the liquor. Those who prefer the soup may liave it in a basin with toasted bread. OLIVES.—There are three sorts, the Italian, Spanish, and French ; they may be had of various sizes and flavours, some prefer one sort, and some another. The fine salad oil is made from this fruit, for which purpose they are gathered ripe; for pickling they are gathered when only half ripe, at tlie latter end of June; they are put into fresh water to soak for a couple of days; after this they are thrown into lime water, in which some pearl-ashes have been dissolved; in this liquor they lie for six and thirty hours ; they are then put into water which has had bay-salt dissolved in it; this is the last prepara- tion, and they are sent over to us in this liquor ; they are naturally, as they grow on the tree, extremely bitter, and there- fore all tliese preparations are necessary to bring them to their fine flavour. To some olives they add a small quantity of essence of spices, which is an oil drawn from cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, corian- der, and sweet fennel-seed distilled toge- ther for that purpose; twelve drops are sufficient for a bushel of olives; some prefer them flavoured with this essence. Olives, RagoiU of.*—Take some very green olives, cut out the stones, so that the fruit may close to its original form ; put them, one by one, into water, blanch, and then put them into a good cullis, well seasoned. Olives, Ragodt o/.*—Take a small quantity of parsley and scallions, shre^ and give them a few turns in butter, with a little flour; add to this two spoons- ful of gravy, a glass of Champagne, capers, cut small, an anchovy, some olives, witliout their stones, a drop of olive oil, and some good cullis ; season it well, clear away the fat, and serve it with roast meat of various kinds. OMELET.*—Take as many eggs as you think proper (according to the size of your omelet) break them into a basin with some salt and chopped parsley; then beat them well, and season them according to taste, then have ready some onion chopped small; put some butter into a frying- pan, and when it is hot (but not to burn) put in your chopped onion, giving them two or three turns; then add your eggs to It, and fry the whole of a nice brown, you must only fry one side. IVhen done, turn it into a dish, the fried side upper- most, and serve. Omelet d In Celestine.*—Make four omelets, of tlireeeggs each, and as thin as possible; slide them carefully on the