CAL 109 1 CAL Calf’s lAver d la Bourgeoisp.—Cut a calf’s liver in slices, ami put it in a stew- pan, with shalot, parsley, and preen onions, cut small, and a piece of butter ; shake it over the lire, and dredge in a little flour; moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as inuch of white wine, salt and pepper { boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly consumed, put in the yolks of three eggs, previously beaten with two spoonsful of vinegar; thicken it over the fire, and serve. i Ibid, Third /Fay.—Lard a calf’s liver I with bacon, previously rolled in shred parsley, salt and pepper. Make a rotta; i with some butter, flour, stock, a bunch ;j ef sweet herbs, a few carrots, rind of ) bacon, pepper and salt. Boil this for 4 two hours, and then put in the liver, with a glass of red wine; another hour wdll j do it. Strain the sauce oyer it before you serve. Calf’s Liver d la Bruise.*—Lard a calf’s liver with bacon, seasoned with i garlic, fine herbs, salt and pepper. Put it intoa stewpan, with a quarter of a pint 1 of water, some slices of bacon, part of a I calf’s foot, a bunch of parsley, onions. thyme, and bay leaves, salt, pepper, and 1 spices, an onion stuck with cloves, and lialf a glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil, cover the fire with hot cinders, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it for three or four hours. To prevent its burning, lay sticks across the bottom of the pan, and put the liver on it; strain ofl'the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold, in its own jelly. Calf’s Liver d la Brochette.*—Cut a calPs liver into slices, about the size of a crown piece, cut some bacon in the same rnanner; place them alternately (be- ginning with the bacon) on skewers, seven or eight inches long. Dip them into hot broth or soup; sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and broil ttiem of a gold colour. Calf’s Liver Broiled.—Slice it, sea- son with pepper and salt, and broil nicely; rub a bit of cold butter on it, , and serve hot and hot. Calf’s Liver Cake.*—Mince' and pound together a calf’s liver, half a pound of suet, and half a pound of bacon ; then mix them with some chopped onions and mushrooms, tossed up in butter, the I yolks of six eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon, place the above preparation, and some sliced truffles on them, and cover the I whole with bacon ; put the saucepan on ! a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done, take it ofl, let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boiling water, loosen the cake, turn it on a dish, and remove the bacon from it; sprinkle it with rasp- ings, and serve it. Calf’s Liver Cake Cold.*—Pound a calf’s liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham, pass them through a quenelles sieve, into a pan with a cold boiled calf’s udder, an equal pro- portion of tongue d Vecarlate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into dice; mix with them eight eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake as above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out; remove the bacon, trim and glaze the cake with veal jelly; with which garnish your cake. Calf’s Liver Cake Hot.*—Pound a calf’s liver, and an equal quantity of calf’s udder, as above, put them into a pan; cut some onion into dice, scald and loss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold, mix it with the liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut in dice; stir in eight eggs, one at a time ; the whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould, well buttered, cover it with a round piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a hain marie with hot asiies under and over, for two hours. When ready to serve, turn it on the dish for table, drain away the water, glaze it. Serve it hot, with a pepper sauce. Calf’s Liver en Crepine.*—Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter, mince a calf’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; then put them into a mortar, with the onions, some dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, mushroom, four yolks of eggs, and four whites whipt, pound these together well. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig’s caul, pre- viously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand, put all the pounded materials in this, wet the edges with white of egg to make them unite; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close; stew it gently in hot cin- ders for half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then place it in yoiu* dish, serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little verjuice. Calf’s Liver d I’Etouffi *—Lard a fine calf s liver, and soak it in white wine for a day. Line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and beef; put in salt, pepper, fine herbs, spices, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, scallions, parsley, chopped, put