R AS 433 R A M I fermentation has ceased; when it has ) stood aliout a year, draw it off clear, put i it into the barrel again, and let it stand i to settle before it is bottled ; before it I is bunged down close, put a quart oi j hrai'idy to a hogshead of wine. What is I thick should be run through a flannel 1 bag. I N. B. The time for steeping depends ^ on the warmth of the weather ; when the 1 fruit is swelled ready to break, it is in a il fit state to press. ! Raisis /f^ene Vinegar.*—After press- : ing oft’the wine, lay the fruit in aheap to I heat two or three days ; then, to every I hundred of fruit, put fifteen gallons of j water; let it stand in the tub, stirring it < every day till it becomes tour; then t strain it off, put it into the cask, and fer- f ment it with a toast covered with yeast; I lay a piece of slate over the bung-hole ; K set it in ihe sun during the summer, and I in winter in a warm place. . Raisin Vinegar,—To every two pounds ij of Malaga raisins, put four quarts of s spring-water ; lay a tile over ttie bung, fl and set it in the sun till fit for use. A il stone-bottlewill doas wellasa cask. Plac- il jng it in th.e chimney corner, and keep- I ing it there a proper time, will do as well I as placing it in the sun. I RAMEQUINS.—Take a quarter of a [ pound of Cheshire cheeie, scraped, the f same quantity of Gloucest‘-r cheese, and [ beat them in a mortar, v/ith a quarter of II a pound ol fresh butter, the ymlks of four ti eggs, and the inside of a French roll, 9 boiled in cream till soft; when all is beaten to a paste, mix it with the whites h of the eggs, previously beaten, and put li the paste into small paper cases, made I ratherlong than square, and put them to II bake in a Dutch oven, till ofa fine brown. 1] They should be served quite hot. You II may, if you think proper, add a glass of II white wine. M Ramequins.*—Take half a pint ivater, R three ounces of Gruyere cheese, a liltle }] Parmesan, an equal quantity of butter, ^ .salt, and pepper ; pul them into a stew- Span, set it on the fire ; when the water boils, take it oft', mix sifted flour and ^ eggs with it, as directed for Choux; pour !your preparation into buttered tins, dorez them, and lay on each a thin slice of Gruyere cheese ; bake them in a mo- derate oven. »i Ramequi.ns d fa CVeine.*—Put into a saucepan, two ounces of fresh butter, and two glasses of good milk ; when it begins ! to boil, take it from the fire, and add five ounccsof sifted flour, mix this well; '1 then replace it on the fire, stirring con- I stantly for three minutes; pourihe paste into another saucepan, to mix it with fi two ounces more of butter, two of Parme- san cheese grated, and two eggs, these being thoroughly amalgamated, add a pinch of aspoonful of powder sugar, an egg, and three ounces of Gru- yere cheese, cut into dice; work this mixture well, and put to it three spoons- ful of whipped cream; your paste ought to be the consistence of choux ; lay the ramequi7is rather smaller than thec/itwiai, dorez them in the same manner, and put them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. RASPBERRY Cakes.*—Gather some raspberries before they are quite ripe, pick, and lay them in a stove to dry; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound and quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to cam'; then weigh half a pound of raspberries, dried as above ; throw them into the syrup, with half a spoonful of white of egg, beaten in cream; stir it carefully, give it a boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. Raspbebries, Co7npoteof.* — Choose your fruit when quite dry, and perfectly sound; pick them carefully, and put them into cold water ; boil some clarified sugar to la plume ; drain the raspberries, put them into the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and leave it. A little time after stir the fruit gentlyq give them one boil, and then put them into a cowpo- tier. Raspberries, Consei'veof.*— Beat up a pound of raspberries to a syrup, to which add the juice of a quarter of a pound of red currants, strained ; put the pan on a moderate fire till the fruit is reduced to half. In the meantime, boil a pound and a quarter of sugar to la plume.! then stir it continually till it whitens; when a little cooled, mix the fruit with it thoroughly, and then pour it into your moulds to dry. Raspberry Cream.*—Whip some good cream to a fine froth ; beat up powder- sugar with ripe raspberries, rub this through a sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible with the whipped cream ; lay it carefully in a china howl, or in glasses ; if the former, garnish it with a string of ripe raspberries. Raspberry Cream.* —Boil an runce and half of isinglass in as little water as possible, strain it, and add r.aspberry syrup suflicient to give it a pleasing colour ; then add half a pint of white wine and two onnees of pounded-sngar ; iill this to he put to a pint of thick cream, and to be well beaten before it is put into the moulds. Haspberiues. Creme of (liqueur).*— Take tour pounds of fresh gathered raspberries, pick, and infuse them for four and twenty hours in a gallon and a 2 1*