( 193 ) C RE C R E , tlie tliird part of any cream pStissiere i you please, and havinjj rolled out the J brioche paste, place on it, when cold, the ■ cream in small pieces, cut the fritters, and finish them in the usual way. (See ! Fritters ei la Dauphine.) Cream Froth.*—PvlI a pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with half ' a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum ■ dragon, a little crisped orange-flower, I and three drops of cedrat essence; when li the sugar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in which is three pounds of ice beaten up with saltpetre; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the froth as it rises with a skimmer, lay i it gently on a sieve over a pan; if the ! creatn does not froth properly, add the ' whites of tw^o eggs. This cream is usual- j ly served in large silver or gilt goblets, ! and should be prepared two or three j hours before it is wanted. Cream German.* — Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinna- 1 mon, for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten and 1 strained ; mix them well, and cook it in the bain marie. Cream Glazed.*—Put a small handful of flour into a stewpan, with some lemon- ^ peel, chopped very small, some orange- I flowers, dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of eight . eggs, with a pint of cream, and half a I pint of milk, keeping the whites by them- j selves; mix the yolks well together in i the stewpan, with the flour and other in- • gredients, and let them boil gently for I lialf an hour; when the cream is thick- ( ened, take it off the fire, and whip the I whites of the eggs till they are well ) frothed; then add them to the cream, : and pour the whole into the dish for , table ; strew sugar all over the cream ; : put the dish into an oven of a moderate lieat, and when the cream rises well, and is glazed, serve. To make it rise, the ^ dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. Cream Hasty.—Take a gallon of milk, warm from the cow, set it on the fire, I and when it begins to rise, take it off the j fire, and set it by; skim ofl all the ‘ cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and repeat the skimming till your plate is lull of cream ; put to it sorne orange-flower, and sugar, and so serve it. Cream Imperial.— Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish frorn a large teapot, bolding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if a day. Cream Imperial.—a quart of water, six ounces of hartshorn; put them into a stone bottle, and tie it close down, do not fill it too full, and put it into a pot of boiling water, or in an oven to bake; let it stand three or four hours, strain it through ajellybag,and let it cool; having ready six ounces of almonds beat very fine, put to them as mtich cream as jelly; mix them together, strain the almonds and cream, and set altogether oyer the fire till it is scalding hot; strain it into narrow bottom glasses, let them stand a whole day, and then turn them out; stick them all over with blanched al- monds, or pine-apple seeds laid in water a day before you peel them, and they^ will come out like a flower; then stick them on the cream. Cream Italian..*—Boil a pint and a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it the peel of a young lemon, some corian- der seed, a bit of cinnamon, ralher more than half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two or three grains of salt; let it boil till half is consumed ; then let it stand to cool, and have ready in another stew- pan a little flour, beat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it by degrees into the cream; strain it through a sieve, and put it in the dish for table, placing the dish in some hot water over the fire till the cream is set. Before serving, brown with a salamander. Cream Italian.*—Pat a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange- flower water, into a pan, and whip them up together; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must be renewed until the cream is done enough; then let it cool, and serve it. Cream (to /ceep). — CrcHm already skimmed, may be kept twenty-four hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping in a cool place. Cream Light.*—Take a pint and a halt of milk, some sugar, lemon-peel, and orange-flower water; boil the whole together till reduced to half tlie quantity ; then take it oil' the fire, and let it coot; in the meantime, beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs, (keeping the whites separate).