B R E (7! method is superior, and more congenial to beer than all the arts that are prac- tised. . If, however, beers remain stubborn, eitlier from bad cellars or weak hops, or from ill-managemeBt, then, in order to make beer or ale transparent and fine, isinglass may be used, which may be thus prepared ; if for fining a hogshead, take a quarter of a pound of isinglass, and put it into a quart of the liquor drawn from the cask, and let them gently simmer over a slow fire for half au hour, in a clean vessel. Pour this into a can of the beer, and put it into the cask, stirring it with a long stick for a quarter of an hour, and six hours after bung the cask close again. _ It is a bad practice to put raw hops into beer, as tliey are apt to become musty. Beers are; not unfrequently sick and out of condition; when this happens, they should again be put into anew fer- mentation: and then balls made of a pound of fine wheat flour, mixed vvith a sufficient quantity of treacle, will pro- mote their briskness. This composition softens all beers to the greatest advan- tage. Burton Ale.—For making of Bur- toii, or rich fVelsh Ales. In lieu of boil- ing the wort two hours, let it boil only one hour, but without ceasing for the whole time. Have ready six pounds of treacle, which must be thrown into the copper ; this adds to the strength of the malt, and gives great richness to the flavour of the ale. The liquor must be kept well stirred up the whole time, and particularly from the bottom: but as this is not brewed for keeping, three quarters of a pound of hops to every bushel of malt will be sufficient. Before it is tapped (which may be done in three or four months), fine it as before described with the hops, when it will be found to possess that rich, full flavour for which Burton and Welsh ales are so much esteemed. This has frequently been brewed in the early part of March, and drank in perfection at the latterend of the June following. Indeed, all well brewed ales and table beer, at three and four months old, are ripe and good. Edinburgh Oat Ales.— Should be made from the best white, heavy, sweet oat, made into malt the same as barley is. The Scotch oats are prelerrcd, and the ale made thereof, is said to be of a fine soft healing quality, and is of great repute, particularly in England, where it is not common. Though th'3 ale requires a greater quantity of malt, it is brewed at a less ) B RE price than others, as ten bushels will make a hogshead of fifty-tour gallons, rich, soft and delicious, as no table beer is taken from it. From four to six months old it will become fit for use, either in bottles or cask. It must be brewed, hopped, &c. in the same man- ner as Welsh ales. Some persons who grow their own oats in England, make this ale, with a part of oat malt, and a part barley malt. Porter.—It is generally held that porter, to be good, imust necessarily be brewed in large quantities; this, how- ever, is a popular error. Excellent por- ter may be brewed in private families, and by proper management, so ordered, that ample time between each brewing may be allowed for it to refine for use. Those families therefore who have con- venient utensils for brewing strong beers and ales, and who are acquainted with the process for making them suc- cessfully, may also add porter to the cellar stock, and thereby supply their tables with that truly English beverage, and regale their friends with a tankard of that cool, refreshing, and wholesome liquor, pure, genuine, and free from those pernicious adulterations which are sometimes practised by the public brewer and too often by the publican, by whose cheating rapacity the health of his cus- tomers is destroyed, and the reputation of the brewer who serves his tap sufters accnidingly. It is well known that the excisemen are instructed to keep a vigi- lant eye upon the breweries, to prevent the use of deleterious drugs, in the com- position of beer, which instructions they more readily obey, as a heavy penalty is attached on detection of such mal-prac- tises ; whilst the publican, who is com- monly the most culpable, for his share in the adulteration of beer, is generally allowed to escape detection. It would be well, therefore, that the publican should be liable to an equal penalty with the brewer, as his risk is less, and his profits certain, a very liberal allowance being granted to all retailers of London porter. The brewing of porter is nearly by the same piocess as the brewing of ale. The mash, however,lmust be made of a fine, high dried, sweet, full malt, (which is cheaper than the pale malt u.'ed for brewing the strong beer and ale); and full, fine, sweet, brown hops. It is not necessary for a porter brewer to give from ten to twenty shillings per hundred weight, for colour or appear- ance in hops, when in actual value and •trengih they may be thirty per cent, in- ferior for his purposes ; such bright and