B RE ( 75 ) B RE than two'feet. The mouth should not be even an inch wider than is requisite, with an iron door to shut close; one so formed will require less fuel, and retain the heat mucli better than an oven of a longer form and liigher roof, and, conse- quently, will bahe every thing more completely. Tliose families who reside in the country, where wood is mere easily procured, have the advantage over the La)ndon bakers, for although neces- sity has introduced the custqtn of using sea-coal for baking in great cities, ovens wherein wood alone is used, bake to the greatest perfection, and with more purity. Bread.—Put a quartern of flour into a large basin with two teaspoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table spoonsful of good yeast, stir in it a pint of milk lukewarm, put it in the hole of the flour, stir it Just to make it a thin batter, then strew a little flour over the top, then set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over; let it stand till next morning, then make it into a dough ; add half a pint more of warm milk, knead it for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place by the fire for one hour and a half, then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks; bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. Bread (4ro^«^^) Ice.—Grate stale brown bread as fine as possible, soak a small proportion in cream, for two or three hours, sweeten, and ice it. Bread (brmvn) Fudilin/{.— Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, the same of currants, and of shred suet, a little nutmeg and sugar, mix with four eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of cream, boil in a cloth or ba- sin three or four hours. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Cut a penny loaf in thin slices of bread and butter, as for tea, butter a dish, lay slices over it, strew currants on them, then lay the bread and butter, strew cur- rants, and so on till the dish is full. Beat up four eggs with a pint of milk, a little salt, nutmeg and sugar, and pour over the pudding. Lay a pufl-paate round, and bake it; half an hour will be suffi- cient. Bread [coimnon) Ch/ce.—Take the quantity of n quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a teacupful of good milk. Bake in acake tin. Bread {Diet) Cake.—Break nine eggs, separate the yolks and whites, take their weight in sifted sugar. Whisk the whites to a firm froth, add the yolks, well beaten, and then whisk them to- gether ; put the sugar and the weight of five eggs of flour and a few carraway seeds. Mix all well together, and bake in a hoop. Bread Cheesecakes.—Slice a large French roll very thin, pour on it some boiling cream; when cold, add six or eight eggs, half a pound of butter melted, some nutmeg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half apound of currants. Put them in puflT-paste as other cheese- cakes. Bread, {to serve with Coffee.)*—Whip up the whites often eggs to a thick snow ; add to them the yolks beaten with eight ounces of powder sugar, place it over a charcoal fire, and whip it fo half an. hour, then take it from the fire, and whip again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of sifted flour. Have ready but- tered two moulds lined with paper, pour the paste into them, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, take them out of the moulds and remove the paper; when cold, cut them in slices about the size of a finger. Place them on a plate of copper, over a charcoal fire, and when one side is brown, turn them and brown the other side. These if kept dry will be good for a long time. Bread {rich) to serve with Coffee.*— Make your paste as above, but when you have mixed in your flour, add to it the rind of two lemons grated; candied lemon and orange peel, of each two ounces chopped; stir them in with a wooden spoon, and finish as above. Bread Crumbs Fried. — Rub bread that has been baked two days, through an iron sieve or cullender; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; place it over a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon till of a fine gold colour; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them often. Bread, French.~La.y half a bushel of the best Hertfordshire white flour at one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Mix a pint of good small-beer yeast with three quarts of warm water, put it in, and mix it up well till it is tough, put a flannel over it, and let it rise as high as it will; watch- ing carefully that it does not fall. When it IS at its height, take six quarts of skimmed milk, blood-warm, the bluer the better, provided it be sweet, and one pound of salt. Be careful not to put any milk with the yeast at first, for that will prevent the yeast from rising, as any greasy substance will have that efl'ect.