LEM 311) LEM the rinds of your lemons as tliin as possi- ble, and put them into double the quan- tity of sugar, boiled to la grande phme; stir tliem well, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and then lay them on abaking plate, previously rubbed with oil; strew powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. ^ , Lemons Compdte of. * —Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water till they are tender, then change them into cold water; then make a syrup with a glass of water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve cold. Lemon Conserve.*—Grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a pound), scrape off the surface of the su- gar as the lemon adheres to it, until you have rasped the whole of the rind ; squeeze half the juice on the scraped su- gar, and then boil the rest to la grande plume ; take it from the fire when at this degree, and let it stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and when it forms a sort of glace on the top of the sugar, pour the conserve into moulds; being careful, however, that it is not too hot. Lejion Cream.—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs, well beaten,a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and the rind of a lemon, cut very thin; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon into a dish or basin, and pour the creani upon it, stirring till quite cold. Lemon Cream (Clear.)—Take a little hartshorn jelly, and put into it the peel of two lemons, taking care that there is none of the white; set it over the fire, let it boil; take the whites of six eggs, and beat them well ; take the juice of four lemons, grate in the peel to the juice, and let it soak a little while, and afterwards put the juice and eggs toge- ther j put in a sufficient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it; let it boil very fast near a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and as it runs through put it in again, till it is quite clear; after which, take the peels of the lemons boiled in it, and cut them into each glass; stir it till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. Lemon CVe«w( i e//o«t).—Grate off the peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice to it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, put to it the whites of eight eggs, and the yolks of two, well beaten and strain- ed ; add thereto a pound of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose-water, and a pint of spring-water, stir these all together ; set it on a quick fire, but let it not boil; it is done sufficiently when it creams. Lemon Cream (/eetr)-*—Take two fine large lemons, rub their rind on a piece of sugar, and scrape it off, and put on paper ; set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil; in the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks, and a pound of fine sifted sugar ; when well mixed, put them a little at a, time to the boiling cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or three times, stirring constantly, and pour it through a sieve into a basin. When cold, put it into the mould and ice it, according to the direc- tions. Lemon Custard. — Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain them, beat them with a pint of cream ; sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one; strain it; when cold, stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. Lesion Drops.—Grate three large le- mons, with a large piece of double refined sugar ; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour ; mix well together, and beat it into a light paste, with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, put them on a tin-plate, and set them in a moderate oven. Lesion Essence. — Rasp your lemons all round, very thin, and for every quar- ter of a pound of rind, allosy one pound of sugar ; mix it well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; put a bladder over the paper you cover with, and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in a raontlris time it will be fit for use. _ Lesion-flowers, CoNserne o/.*—Take six ounces of lemon-flowers, picked ; dis- solve two pounds of sugar, boil it to petit casse; then throw in the flowers, let tiiem boil up together once, and stir them till the sugar bubbles; finish the conserve as usual. Lesion (Gree?i) Preserved.* — Split some small green lemons on one side that they may take the sugar inside as well as outside ; put them into cold water, and set them on the fire, and keep them from boiling by pouring cold water on them frequently; as soon, however, as they rise above it, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water; after they have lain a short time in it, put them on the fire, and boil slowly till the fruit is quite tender, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar, put the lemons to it, and