BUS BUN ( 86 ) Bake or boil tlie fruit as above; but, instead of taking out the juice, beat tlie bullaces tlirougli a coarse sieve; tlien l>roceed as before, crack the stones and boil the kernels with the jam. The su- gar must not be added until the juice has evaporated. Bollaces (to preserve). — Prick the fruit, throw them into scalding water for a minute, take them clear from the water, strew over them powdered lump sugar : the next day pour oft' the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over tlie bullaces, and let U stand a day or two; boil the syrup again, put in the fruit and boil them to- gether (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserve into jars; when cold, put brandy papers. To a pound of fruitallow halfa pound of sugar. BUNS, Common.—Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few carraway seeds. Put a spoon- ful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste ; set it by the fire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins; you may add nutmeg. Buns (Cross).—To the above mixture put one ounce and a half of ground all- spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and v^hen half proved, press the form of a cross with a tin mould in the centre, and finish as above. Buns (Plum).—To two pounds of the plain bun paste, put half a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of candied orange-peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mi.xed spice, such as allspice, cinnamon, &c. Mould them into buns, jag them round the edges with a knife, and proceed as above. Buns (Richer).—Put four pounds of fine flour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with agill of yeast and a pint of warm milk; then mix with it one pound of sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded fine. Roll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-plate rubbed with butter, ptit them in a moderate oven to prove; then wash them with a paste- brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. Buns (Seed).—Take two pounds of plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce i)f carraway seeds; butter the insides of tart-pans, mould the dough into buns, and put one into each pan ; set them to rise in a warm place, and when sufli- eicntly proved, ice them with the white of an egg beat to a froth, lay some pound- ed sugar over that, and dissolve it with water splashed from the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS, Poupefm of.—Having singed, blanched, and trussed the bunt- ings, lard them and fry them; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender, add sweet- breads cut in pieces and fried; a few mushrooms and morels, and ten or a do- zen chesnuts blanched, season with salt, pepper, <ind nutmeg. Put into another pan, a quarter of a pound of butter, a liandful of flour, two onions, and a pint of gravy, brown them, and then put in the birds, &c., and stew the whole together some time. Take it oft'and set it to cool; line a saucepan (having battered it well) with thin slices of bacon, cover them with forcemeat, half an inch thick, on this place the buntings, the breast down- wards, with therestof the ragout, taking away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon; cover the whole with a layer, an inch thick, of forcemeat, press it close and smooth it with a knife, brush it over wi th egg,strew bread-crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted foi- table, loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it, and serve. BURNET VINEGAR.-Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green burnet leaves, cover them with vinegar aad let them stand for ten days. To make it very strong, strain the liquor, put it on fresh leaves to steep fourteen days longer. BUSTARDS, to boil.—Take off the skin, but leave the rump and legs whole, with the pinions, then mince the flesh raw, with beef suet, season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet herbs, shred small, and mix all together with the yolks of raw eggs, the bottoms of boiled artichokes, roasted chesnuts. blanched marrow, and boiled skirreis, cut small j then fill their skins with this/arcc. and prick them upon the back ; put them into a deep dish, with strong broth, white wine, large mace, artichokes boiled and quartered, marrow, salt, barberries, grapes, and some of the meat made up into balls; cover your dish, let them stew, and when they are enough, serve them upon sippets, broth them, and gar- nish with slices of lemon, run it over with beaten butter, and garnish the dish with chesnuts, mace, and yolks of eggs. BusTARn Pie.—Bone your bustard, parboil, and lard it, season tvitb salt, pepper, and nutmeg, lay butter in the bottom of the pie, add a few beaten cloves, then lay in the fowl, strew mote seasoning over it, lay on a suflicient quantity of butter, close it up, bake it.