RT C RO A ( 438 ) ounces of moist sugar. Boil these togc- tiier three quarters of an hour. Rice Pudding, with Currants.*—Tie live ounces of whole rice in a cloth, leav- ing it room to swell, boil it lialf an hour, then take it tip, add three tablespoons- ful of suet, shred fine, five ounces of cur- rants, and two eggs, well beaten ; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Well wash and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leav- ing plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a ouantily of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Rice {Dutch) Pudding. — Soak four ounces of rice for half an hour, in warm water ; then drain the water from it, and put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and let it simmer until tender. When cold, add four whole eggs, well beaten, three oun- ces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and two ounces of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould, with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice in a little milk over the fire; then mix with it either currants or goose- berries scalded, or apples pared and quartered, raisins, or black currants, add one egg to the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Rice ( Groimd) Pudding.—Boil a very large spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, ivith lemon-peel and cinna- mon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten; put a puff- paste round your dish, put in the above, and bake. Rice Puddings, Small.—Simmer two laige spoonsful of rice in half u pint of milk until it is thick, then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Savotiry. — Carefully wash and pick some rice ; set it to slew’ very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and milt. When it is swelled it should not be boiled to mash ; put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the lire. Ypu may serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having first heated it. Rice Soup. — Carefully blanch some well picked rice, then drain it on a sieve; put about a teacupful in the soup pot, with one head of celery, and a quart of consomme, and let it simmer by the side of the stove for three hours. If iithickens too much add more consomme, season with a little salt; take out the celery, and send the soup to table. Rice Soup.*—Wash your rice well in warm water,changingitfrequently; then put the rice into a saucepan, with some good stock ; set it on the fire, and leave it to swell for halt an hour, but do not let it boil; when the rice ha.s imbibed all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for two hours; in the mean time broil two or three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well; when of a nice dark colour, throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. RicecI la Venitienne.*—Boil tome rice in good broth, and when soft, mix them with beef marrow, pounded almonds, sugar, and orange-flower water; setthew on a gentle fire, and when of a good con- sistence, pour it on a dish; glaze, and colour it with a salamander. RISSOLES (i la d’Artois. — Make a sort of forcemeat of chicken, partridge, rabbit, for sweetbread, &c., (see Cro- guettes), and make a rissole paste, (see Collops), which roll out very thin ; make the forcemeat into little i-ound balls, and place them at equal distances on the paste ; egg them lightly, and turn the end over ; cut them with the gigging iron to the shape of a scallop, prick each of them, and fry them quickly in lard ; lay them on paper as you do them; serve them very hot, with a napkin under them. ROACH.—The roach is a very coarse and bony fish: those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those which are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. Roach Boiled.—Scale, gut. and wash them ; wipe them, cut them jn three or four places on the sides ; put into a stew- pan somesmall-bcer, vinegar, and w.ater, (enough to cover the fishl. some .«alt. a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a stick of horse-radish sliced ; when it boils, put in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce. Roach Fried. — Scale and gut the roach, wash them in salt and water, wipe them exceedingly dry : flour, and fry them in boiling lard ; they must be brown and crisp; lay them in a warm