MAC MAC 326 down the back, and lay them qnite flat; hang them by their tails to drain ; they should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back; let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour, pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun ; take care never to let them be out when the sun is not upon them, nor till the dews are dis- persed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly cured in a week ; hang them up by their tails, putting their insides together, in a dry place, but not in any smoke. They shpuld be either fried in boiling oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will be required, for if they are good, they will be very moist and mel- low ; if they should be dry, you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped parsley. Mackerel, Entree of. — Split your mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in tliem. Broil them gently, and when ready to serve, take out the fennel, and put in its place a mixture, made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of lemon-juice. Mackerel ( Fillets of) Saute.—Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off the skin, trim and pht them into a tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, pai'sley, and scallions shred small; pour a little melted butter over, and set them on the tire, moving the pieces about, lest they should adhere to the pan, turn them very carefully, and do the other aide. Take a gooil bit of butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs, the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ruvi- gotte chopped small; stir it over the fire (but without boiling) till the right con- sistence, then pour it over the fillets. Mackerel (Fillets of ) Saiiti d I’ltali- enne.*—The fillets being taken off, cut them in two, takingolf the skin, and put them into a cutlet pan (previously toss them in egg, and rub over with bread crumbs), with clarified butter, a little water, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprinkle of salt; saute them over a mode- rate fire, and when done, put them be- tween two plates, to drain the liquor from them ; place them on the dish in the form of a star, and pour over them some good Italienne sauce- Mackerel (Fillets of) to le served Cold.—Saute and dish the fillets, the same as the fillets saute a I'Italienne, but let them stand till cold, and before they are wanted, pour over them a re- moulade sauce, or they may be served in a salad, the same as salmon. Mackerel d la Flamande.*—Choose i| three good sized and very fresh mackerel, ,j take out the entrails through the gills, , tie up the head, cut off' the end of the | tail, but do notopen the back. Workup i some shalots, parsley, and scallions i (chopped very small), with a piece of | butter, add salt, pepper, and lemon- , juice, stufl'the body of the fish, and roll | each in a sheet of buttered paper, tie the | two ends tight, rub the paper with oil, | and broil them for three quarters of an | hour over a very clear fire. When done, , take them out of the paper, dish, and | pour over them the butter contained in | the cases and lemon-juice. i Mackerel en Fricandeaicx.—'T^^ the | skin from one side of the mackerel, lard, , and put the fish into a braising pan, with i a few slices of veal, liam, equal quantities ) of broth and white wine (let the veal be i nearly done before you put in the mack- I erel); set the pan on a slow fire, and in I a few minutes, add a few mushrooms, and | a bunch of sweet herb.s; when the fish i are sufliciently done take them out, strain | and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with I which do the larded side ; put a little j butter to the remainder, and ser\’e it I under the fish. Mackerel Fried.—Cut your mackerel, each into eight pieces, which soak for i half an hour in lemon-juice, pepper, and I salt; wipe them perfectly dry. dip each i piece in wine batter, and fry them dry; | serve with fried parsley. Mackerel, the German way. — Split I them down the back, and season them i with pepper and salt; broil them, and i serve with the following sauce ; pick and I wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green onions; but use only a small quantity of each. Boil tliem lender in a ! little veal slock ; then chop them un, and add to them some fresh butler, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Myenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with Hour, and serve in a sauce boat. Mackerel Glazed.*—Clean and dry the fish Rs usual, lard them with streaked bacon, put them into a stcwp;m. with two sliceii of veal, sweet herbs, pour some eoxn-t bouillon on them; stew them : when i done, take them out, reduce the liquor, ^ and glaze your fish with it. > ftlACKEREi. Grille.* — Clean, empty, > and wipe your fish as usual; split them I 1 I