( 77 ) B R E B R E into a firm paste, with two eggs, and roll it into pieces about a foot long, and rather more than an inch thick ; lay them on buttered tins, rfwrz and mark them with the point of a knife, and put them into a hot oven ; when done, cut them in pieces for use. Bread Pudding.*—Cut two or three French rolls in slices, and soak them in a pint of cream or good milk ; beat up the yolks of six eggs with them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three pound- ed macaroons, and a glass of white wine ; tie it up in a basin or buttered cloth, let the water boil when you put in the pud- ding, and boil it for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Bread {little) Puddings.—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat up six eggs and mix with it; add two ounces of warmed butter, sugar, orange- flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all well together, and bake in but- tered tea-cups; a quarter of a pound of currants, orange or lemon candied may be added. B READ Sauce.—Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a few pep- percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till the bread has imbibed the whole of the milk; then add a little thick cream, take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve; make it very hot, and serve in a sauce-boat, either for game or fowls. Bread Sippets, fried.—Cut a slice cf bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, and shape them to your fancy; make some very clean fat, bot in a frying-pan, and fry the bread in it; when of a delicate light brown, take them up with a fish- slice, and drain them, turning them oc- casionally. BREAM, to dress.—After your bream is scaled and drawn, notch the side of it, dipit in melted butter; make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, cives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then put in a little fish- broth, and thicken it with acullisthat is to he poured on the fish ; but do not put the anchovies in till you are going to serve; when it is hroiled enough, serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. Breasi, to steio.—Scale and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in, put to it two glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of half a pound of prunes boiled, and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, two anchovies, some roots of horse-radish,stamped and strain- ed, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; let there be no more liquor than willjust cover the fish, and other ingredients; when it is enough, make a sauce with butter, a little of the bream liquor, beat them up together, then dish your fish, pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and barberries, and serve it up. BRENTFORD Rolls.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful of yeast, and about a pint of milk; knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire again to rise. When of a proper size, bake them for half an hour. BRETTONNE.*—Take twelve large onions, and cut each of them in half; be particular in taking out the germs; cut them into small pieces, and brown them over the fire ; then put them into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little bay, garlick, thyme, salt, and pepper, and let them cook over hot ashes, put ashes on the cover of your stewpan; when they are sufficiently done, add a little sugar, a little vinegar, and reduce the whole to a glaze with a little love-apple sauce; sprinkle with a little water, and add a large spoonful of blanc, then pass it through a bolting- cUith ; afterwards put it into a stewpan with some more bla7ic. and a quarter of a pound of butter, and let it simmer. Serve with a white harico. BREWING.—Much indifferent beer is made in private families, even where there is no sparing of materials, for the mere want of system and economy in the management. Bi the first place, attention should be paid to the state of the utensils used in the operation, and all necessary prepa- rations made the day before the act of brewing commences; on which day, let the water be heated in the copper that it may be well cleansed ; also cleanse the casks, mash-tub, coolers, &c. When this business is dispatched, fill the cop- per, and prepare all things in readiness for next morning. Ihe allowance of malt for Strong Beer must be ten bushels to the hogshead. For ylle, nine bushels to the hogsliead. The copper for making a hogshead of beer or ale should contain full seventy gallons, because the hogshead of beer measure holds sixty-t/iree gallons, and there should be the surplus measure al- lowed for the hops, and the working them 113