PER PER ( 3S9 ) |i do not preserve so good n flavour when J stewed, as when dressed in any other j way. Peoch au Beurre.* — Having tho- ( roughly cleaned and taken out the gills, I put your perch into a stewpan, with a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, pars- ' ley, salt, and a little water. When done, dram them; take off'the scales and skins ti carefully; place the fins at equal dis- |i tances in the bodies, and serve them I covered with a butter sauce. Perch Boiled.— Put them into cold I water, and let them boil carefully; serve I with melted butter and soy. Perch Boiled.—Set the perch on in cold I spring water, with plenty of salt; as soon ] as they boil, skim them well, and place i them aside to simmer till done ; and I serve them either with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. II Perch in Court Bouillon.*—Having II cleaned your perch and i-ejected the gills, ll wash them well in vinegar, and then put ll them into a saucepan, with some butter, i; sweet hprbs, small white onions, and |j white wine; stew them till done ; drain, n and serve them dry, on a napkin folded, in a dish. Perch {Fillets of) Fried in a Mari- nade.—Scale and cut oil' the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak for ten hours in a marinade, half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay-leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic; a few minutes before you wish to serve them, take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quick in clear lard ; when free from the fat, place them on a dish, with good strong butler sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tar- ragon vinegar; when very hot, pour it between the fish. Perch d la Gardiane.*—Scale, empty, and clean as many per-ch as you may require, and soak them for five minute’s in melted butter, with sweet herbs shred, salt, pepper, and pounded coriander; put the fish (with this marinade) into a jar, cover it very close, and set it in hot ashes; when you tliink the perch are about half done, add some good veal gravy, cover it as closely as before, and let it remain till the fish are done. Perch d la Hollundaise.— 'I’horoughly clean and wash tlie perch, then set them on the fire in half milk, half water, some salt, and a hit of butter; simmer them gently over a slow fire, and when done, drain oil’the liquor, lay them on a dish, with a sauce d la Hollundaise over them. Perch d la Polonaise.*—Clean three perch well, take out the gills and roes, in the place of which put carp roes ; tie up their heads, and stew them in a light salt and water, with parsley roots and leaves, bay-leaf, and lemon-peel._ When done, takeoff the scales and skins; dip the fish in a Ste. Menehofuld sauce, and bread them ; heat up the yolks of three eggs in a little melted butter, salt and pepper; dip the perch in this, and bread them a second lime; broil them slowly, and serve with a tomata sauce. Perch au Restaurant.* — Scale and clean your fish, and if large, soak them in hot brine, but if they are small, that is not necessary. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it melts, then add some veal gva.'iy or co7isomme, salt, pepper, vine- gar, and your fish ; stew gently till suffi- ciently done. Serve with the sauce poured over. Perch d la Vasse Fiche.*—Take three or four perch, gut and clean them well; lake out the gills and roes (if they have any), and put some carp roes in their place, tying up the heads; put them into water slightly salted, with sliced carrots, parsley roots and leaves ; give them one boil only; then take out the fish, and mix with the sauce some well reduced veloute ; put the perch in again, give them another boil, and dish them, with the sauce poured over. Perch au fVater Sucket.*—Cut some parsley roots into small pieces, which put in a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may liave; add a bunch of par.sleyanil some salt; when the roots are quite done, put in the perch well scaled and cleaned! lor ten minutes, n the_ mean time scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; then drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over it, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with it. Perch with fVine.*—Having scaled and taken out the gills, put tlie perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and while wine, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done, take out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a iiitle flour ; beat these up, set tliem on the fire, stirring till quite done, add- ing pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anclioyy butter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERLINGO.*—Take a pound and a half of sifted flour, and having placed iron your slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which put Uiree quarters of a pound of hrown sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, tlie rind of two lemons, 2L3