C II A ( l.'>2 ) C II A 1 powdor-siigar over, and bits of butter: then put a layer of apples, sii(?ar, and butter, and so on till you have filled the dish. Have ready some bread, cut thin and snaked in warm milk ; lay a plate on ^e Cliailotte, and a weii^bt on that. Bake it in a slow oven for three hours. Half a pound of butter is the proper quantity. CwAiifiOTTE d la FratiQotse.* — This charlotte is made in the same way as that d la Parisimne, only that croquettes d la Parisienne, and a cream blanc- mange are used, instead of the biscuits snAfromage bavarois. Finish it in the same way. Chaulotte d f’/fnfi'eMne. *—Make a small of rum genoises, cut in pieces like spoon-biscuits, with which line a plain round mould, fill the char- lotte with rum cre&ra-plombiere, with the addition of four drachms of clarified isinglass; cover the cream with genoises, and finish it in the usual way. Charlotte d la Parisienne*—Take a quarter of a pound of well glazed spoon- biscuits, and a small case of green pista- chio biscuits, which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges ; arrange these at the bottom of a plain oc- tagon mould, in the form of a star, and •with the remainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next the mould; fill the in- terior with a vanilla frrmage-iavarois, but do not put it in till the moment be- fore it is sent to table ; then cover the Jrosnage with biscuits^ and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes, then turn it on a dish for table. Chartreuse.—Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like apples d la Turque, in a puree ; pare and quarter and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some currant jelly and apricot jam, dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm tlie whole very gently. Chartreuse^ d la Parisienne en sur- prise.*—Boil eight fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold, skin and cut them lengthwise with a root cutter, half an inch in diameter ; then take a hundred cray-fish tails, (or carrots pre- paredas for chartreuseprintanier), trim, and lay them at the bottom of a but- tered mould, on them place the truffles round the sides of the mould, so as to form an crnamental border, of some open, pleasing pattern, the spaces be- tween the truffles being filled with the filets mignons of chickens, ptevioiisly browned in butter, and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the ctay-fish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole to the thickness of an inch, with a que- nelle farce, pretty firm ; then fill the middle with a blanquelte of fowl, veal or lamb sweetbread, or a ragobt, or any thing else you may think proper, leaving three quarters of an inch space at the top, which must be filled with a farce ; cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain-marie for an hour atid a half. When turned out of the mould, make a crown of small while champignons, lay this on tlie top near the edge, and in the centre a single champignon, round which place eight filets mignons, in the form of a rosette. Chartreuse Printannier.* — SciTipe | two bunches of carrots and two of turnips, and then cut them into pieces, about two inches long and three quarters of an inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water; blanch them, and then separate them. When cold, put them into some good stock w'ith a small quantity of su- gar, and set them on the edge of tlie stove until nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the meanwhile take the trimming of the carrots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, six heaos of celery^ and two lettuces, moisten them with . some good stock, and let the whole sim- mer gently, skimming it well, until the vegetables are thoroughly done; then strain the liquor from them ; and when it has stood a little time, strain it again, so that it may be quite clear, then stir up with it some espagnole. Take three small cabbages cut into quarters, blanch them, open each quar- ter, and season it with a little salt; tie them up. and put them in a stewpan, lined with ham and bacon, with a sau- sage, a piece of bacon, two small par- tridges larded, parsley, and green onions, season the whole, amJ cover it with slices of bacon, moisten it with poeic or coru- somme, and let it stew over a gentle fire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking, drain the carrots and turnips, and place them ac- cording to fancy in a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom com- pletely ; then drain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingre- dients in a napkin ; trim the b.icon, and cut the sausages into thin slices; lay tlie cabbages lightly in the mould ; then tl»e bacon and sausages like a cord; tbea place the partridges, breasts downwards, the bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould (making the top quite flat) with the cabbages; lay a buttered paper