F I S ( 243 ) F I S they are cold, put 8ome of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushVooms, the veiy smallest onions, truffles and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish with more lorcemeat round the top ; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table, cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some gooil cullis. Fish (Salt).—Sal ted fish requires soak- ing, according to the time it has been in salt; that which is hard and dry, re- quires two nights’ soaking, changing the water two or three times; the interme- diate time lay it on a stone floor; Barrel- ed Cod requires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank Split Fi^h, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. Fish Sauce. — Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish. Put it into asancepan,with an onion,an anchovy, a spoonful of catsup, and a glass of white wine. Thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procuie cream, instead of white wine you must use red. Fish Sauce (to keep a year.)*—Take forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and all, put to them ten shalots cut small, a handful of scraped horse-radish, a quar- ter of an ounce of mace, a quartof white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, twelve pepper-corns. Boil the whole together till it is reduced to a quart; then strain it, put it into a bottle, and cork it close ; keep it in a cool dry place. One tea- spoonful will hesufficientforhalfa pound of butter. Warm the sauce first, and then put the butter in to melt, with a little flour. Fish Sauce without Butter. — Let a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water, (the water must not be hard) simmer very gently, with an union, half a haniiful of horse-radish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea- spoonful of black pepper, these spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes, with aspoouful of catsup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by de- grees with them, and when they are well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, to pre- vent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce d la Crasfer. — Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savoury, thyme, basil, knotted marjorum, a little parsley and sliced horse-radish; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use ; the proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. Fish Sauce (Excellent).,—Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin saucepan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut catsup, twelve ancho- vies with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, fouror five shalots, some cayenne pepper according to taste, three ounces of scrap^ horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard; let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into smalt bottles for use. They must be corked very close, and sealed at the ton. Fish Sauce {fFhite).—Simmer to the quantity required, an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horse-radish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and a quar- ter of a pint of water ; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, a large bit of but- ter mixed well with some flour; keep stirring it till it boils, add a little catsup, squeeze in a little lemon-juice when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. Fish Soup.—Take pieces of difi’erent sorts of fish, such as salmon, skate, sole, &c.; sweat the#n till tender, with turnip, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace ; then add some plain veal broth. Simmer the whole together for halfan hour; then strain, and skim it iree from fat; season with salt and cayenne pepper, clear it with white of nud colour with a little saffron. It may be served to table with celery or rice in it. Fish {Tureen of).—Take fresh water fish of any kind, or different sorts toge- ther. If they be drcsned cn gras, stew them with a few slices of liam and veal, a y 2 ’