A L M (' ) A L M it into squares; dry it in a stove or be- fore the fire. , 1 ir Almonds, Gi^iilugc of,*—Blanch hah a pound of almonds, cut them into four or five slips, lengthways,them with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand them when they begin to crackle; then put them on the fire again till they are well mixed together and form a mass, which put on wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. Almonds, Gi'illage of* — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into four pieces longways; put them on the lire in a deep wide pan, with lour ounces of water, and a pound of sugar; when the almonds' crackle, take them from the fire, and with a wooden spoon, stir them nbout to cover them well; add some lemon-peel grated ; cover the fire and put the pan on again, stirring the almonds constantly until they have taken the ca- ramel colour ; then place a layer of «ow- pareil on a dish, spread over it a layer of t\\^ grillage, then the nonpureil9.n& gril- lage alternately, until all your prepara- tion is used. Dry it then in a stove. Almond Hog’s Pudding.—Chop fine a pounU of beef marrow ; blanch and beat fine a pound of sweet almonds with a lit- tle orange flower or rosewater; grate fine half a pound of white bread, wash and pick half a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, equal quantities of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, making altogether a quarter of an ounce, and half a pint of sack or mountain wine. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream and the yolks of four eggs. Fill the guts half full, tie them up and boil them for a quarter of an hour, and prick them as they boil to keep the guts Irom bursting. The currants may he left out, in which case a quarter of a pound more sugar must be added. Ahi^ionn jeeingfor Bride Cake.—The whites of six egg.=, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and pounded with a little rose water; mix altogether and whisk it well for an hour or two, lay it over the cake and put it iit the oven. Almond Knots.—Take two pounds of almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; beat them in a mortar, to a very fine • paste, with rose water, be careful to keep them from oiling. Take a pound of donhle-refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out some to make up the knots, put the rest in a pan upon the. fire, till it is scalding hot, at the same time have the almonds scalding hot in another pan; then mix them together with the whites of tliree eggs beaten to froth, and let it stand until it is cold; then roll it with some of the sugar left out for that purpose, and lay them in platters of oaper. They will not roll into shape, therefore lay tliem as well as may be,and bake them in a alow oven. Al.mond {Bitter) Macaroons.*—Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat tliein to a paste with the whites of tliree or four eggs; then put them into ati earthen pan with three pounds of powder-sugar, mix them together well, and if the paste should be too dry, moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on sheets of paper in lumps about the size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. Almond {Sweet) Macaroons.*—Are. done in the same way. But two pounds of sugar are sufficient for a pound of al- monds. Almond Milk.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four drachms of orange-flower water, and live ounces of sugar. Blancli and pound the. almonds to a very smooth paste, moisten- ing them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half, then let it boil up once more; let it cool and serve. Almond Milk, as prepared atMexico.* —Pound blanched almonds as fine as possible, with a small quantity of loaf sugar; keep adding a litile water ivliilst pounding. About twelve almonds care- fully beaten will produce a itiutof mill;. A marble mortar must he used. Almond Rice Milk. {Spanish.)*—To half a pound of rice boiled to a pulp, when the water is drained, add five pints of almond milk; put it in by degrees, stirring it with a wooden spoon whilst boiling slowly, till it is of the consistence of clotted cream. In the last boiling, which should be an hour and a half, at least, from the commencement, add powdered sugar. Almo.nd Mir/itons.*—Blanch an ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter almonds, and dry them in an oven ; when cold, pound them with a little white of egg to prevent tlieir oiling ; then put tliem into an earthen p.an with two ounces of hitter macaroons, five ounces of powdei-sugar, four whole eggs, and a grain of sail; when these are well mi.xed together, add two ounces of butter, lukewarm. Make a prjipcr quantii y of puli’paste, roll it out thill, and cut it into thirty round pieces about two inches and tliree-qnarlers in diameter, and put each of tliese into a tartlet mould buttered ; put the mirli- tons on this, and when all are equally