454 SOL SN I close to the side, and pierce the beak through them ; tie a slice of bacon over eacli bird, run a long iron skewer through the sides, and tie them to the spit; in the mean time cut two or three slices of bread, according to the number of the birds, fry them of a fine brown colour in butter; put the birds to roast, and put the fried bread in a dish under them, to receive the inside, which will drop after they have hung a few minutes; just before they are roasted sufficiently, cut off the bacon, that they may take colour. Serve them on the dish with the bread under them, and plenty of good gravy. Some prefer eating them with butter only, considering that gravy takes off from the fine flavour of the bird. They should be carved the same as fowls or pigeons, and the head should be opened, as some are fond of the brains. Snipes are generally dressed in the same manner as woodcocks. Snipes d la Manselle.*—Take the fil- lets, wings, and legs, of as many snipes as will give you sufficient for a dish; mince them small, and put the mince- meat into a saucepan, with half a glass of consomme, a spoonful of olive oil, the livers of the birds, well pounded, salt and pepper. Set these on the fire; a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them; when done, put in a little verjuice. Snipe Pie.—Take three snipes, bone them, and fill them with light forcemeat, adding the trails and truffles pounded, to it; place the birds in a deep dish, with a little forcemeat all round; cover with puff-paste; egg, and ornament it, then place it in the oven. When three parts baked, take off’the lid, and pour in some good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira, and season with cayenne and lemon- juice, according to taste; put on the cover, and finish baking. Snipes d la Provetufale. * — Having picked and trussed your snipes, put them into a stewpan, with a glass of oil, basil, bay-leaf, pounded coriander seed, and two slices of lemon ; when they are pretty well flavoured, take them out, wrap each bird in • a slice of bacon and a cabbage- leaf, replace them in the stewpan, and finish cooking them over a gentle fire, add a glass of good stock, a little veal blond, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, or any other articles of the kind ; when about to serve, squeeze in a little Seville orange-juice. Snipes with Truffles. —• Truss eight snipes with their beaks run through them, ana roast them with bread under. Have a few fine truffles well stewed in a good brown sauce, and when the snipes are rOiasted, lay them on the toast in the dish, putting one or two truffles into each snipe, and pour the remainder of the sauce over them. SOLES.—-Soles may be seen in the market almost all the year round, but they are in the greatest perfection about midsummer ; when good, they are thick and firm, and the belly of a cream colour; when stale, they are flabby andof a bluish cast. Soles Boiled. — Be careful that the soles are thoroughly well cleaned, then rub them over with lemon-juice, and set them on the fire in cold spring water, with plenty of salt, and when they begin to boil, put them aside to simmer very gently till done ; serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. You may if you please, garnish your fish with parsley. Soles (Collops of).*—Take some small soles, and marinade them in the juice of two lemons, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs shred ; when they have remained sufficiently long in the above drain them; then stuff the fish with some crumb of bread boiled in milk, and beat up with the yolks of two eggs; sprinkle them with flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on fried parsley or chervil. ■Your fish ought to be of a clear gold co- lour, and very dry and crisp. Soles FriQosseed.—Fry tnem of a nice brown, drain them; take off' all the meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and mix it with a little grated bread, some lemon-peel, parsley chopped fine, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and a little butter ; make this into little balls; fry them. Put a little red wine to some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour; boil it up; add cayenne, ketchup, and lemon-juice, lay in the fish and balls, simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon. Soles Fried.—Let them be thoroughly cleansed, after which dry them in a cloth, dip them in egg, then cover them with fine bread crumbs, laying them on paper as you do them ; put some good lard into a frying-pan, and when very hot. slip in the soles, and fry them of a good brown colour ; place them on paper to drain off the fat: sprinkle over tliem a little salt; serve tliem to table very hot, with shrimp sauce in a boat. You may, if you think proper, beat up the egg with a little pep- per and salt. Soles d la Horly.*—Skin, and teke the fillets from two pairs of soles, trim, and lay them in a pan, and soak them in the juice of two lemons, with an onion sliced, parsley, salt and pepper; in an hour’s time drain the fillets, dry th.em well,