APP (i3) APP little bridge, then take away the crurnb which has acted as a mould for the arch, round the arch place some seeds of ver- juice or preserved cherries; then mask the rest of the bridge with the slices of apple : all this must be done with great care, so that the bridge may have a pretty appearance; put at the four corners of the bridge, four columns of the apple prepared for this purpose, then cut some of the slices of the apple into squares, and place them on the top of the columns, so as to form a flat roof, upon this, place a brandy cherry ; into this cherry you must stick a piece of an- gelica to form a point for the finish to your columns. When you have finished your bridge, fill up the dish (underneath the bridge) with the apple jelly. This etilremet is usually garnished with angelica, pistachio, verjuice, cher- ries, apricot marmalade, gooseberries, quinces, &c. To form this entremet properly, you must carefully work from your model. Apples Slcioed in Jelly.—Cut your ap- ples in half, peel and core them, and as you do them throw them into cold water; then cut two of them into small pieces, put the whole into clarified sugar with a glass of water and some lemon juice, and stew them; when sufliciently done lay them inadish ; makeajellyofthe syrup, and pass it through a bolting-(doth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set; and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. Apple Syrup.*—Take six apples, pare and cut them into small pieces; put them into a matrass with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and two glasses of water; stop it close and place it in a bain marie, and leave it about two hours, letting the water be boiling ; move the matrass fre- quently without taking it out of the wa- ter ; this must be done carefully lest it should break on being exposed to the cold air; when done put out the fire, and let the matrass cool before you take it out. When the syrup is nearly cold, flavour it with lemon juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon or cinnamon, orange flower water, or whatever else you may choose. If any dregs should arise, let it stand for some hours longer, and then gently pour the syrup into bot- tles. Great care must be taken to pre- vent its being muddy. Appi,e Tart.—Pare, core, and cut the bestsortof bakingapples in small pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lineu with a pud-crust; strew over them pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nut- meg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped small, then a layer of apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full, pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. When done, take off'the crust and mix in with the apples two ounces of fresh but- ter, and then pour in two eggs well beat- en ; lay the crust on again, and serve either hot or cold. You may add pounded almonds and a little lemon juice. AvpvETartlets.*—Turn a dozen small, sound rennets, core and cut them across; put them into a preserving-pan with a glass of water, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; when sufficientlydone,put the apples on asieve to draiu. Prepare your tartlets according to the directions for Apricot Tartlets ; put in each, a little apricot marmalade, and on that the half of an apple pre- viously filled with apricot marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the mean time reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets when baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a preserved verjuice-berry on the top. Apples d la Turque.—Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of eight or ten apples, put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar, cover them close and let them simmer gently ; turn them, that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over them. Put a paste round the dish you serve them in, and bake in a gentle oven to harden it, then put in a layer of apple puree, over which put the apples, and fill the holes where the cores were with dried cherries or apricot jam, then cover it with the apple puree ; beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add powder sugar till they appeal- quite smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the white of eggs over them, smooth it neatly over, and sift some powder sugar over it; colour it in a gentle oven. Apple/Fi'we.—Add to a barrel of cyder the herb scurlea, the quintessence of wine, a little nitre,and a pound of syrup of honey. Let it work in the cask till clear and well settled, then draw it off, and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, either in clearness, colour, or flavour. Apples, Codlings, to pickle.—Gather the codlings when of the size of a large double walnut; take a pan atul make a thick layer of vine leaves at the bottom. Putin the codlings, cover them well with vine leaves and spring water, and put them over a slow fire till they are suffi- ciently tender to pare the skins with ease with a small sharp knife. Put them into the same water, with vine loaves as be- fore ; cover them close and set the pan