C RE ( 196 ) C R E saucepan; then pass it through a sieve, add to it three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and as soon as it is pcr- lectly dissolved, pour the whole inio a sorbeliiire, which place in an ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. See S/u rbet. Cream, Snow.—Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain them; then heat up the cream with a bundle of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; and as the snow rises take it up ^yith a spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part may run out: when you have taken off as much of the snow as you please, boil the rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick; strain it, and wlien it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. Cream, Snow.*—Take a pint of fresli cream, and mix with it eight spoonsful of powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any other aromatic ingredient you like belter; whip it, and remove the froth or snow in the usual way. This cream may be coloured according to your fancy, with saffron, carmine, or indigo. Cream, Spanish.—Take three spoons- ful of rice flour, sifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of fresh water, two spoonsful of orange- flower water, and mix them well to- gether ; then put to it one pint of cream; set it on a good fire ; keep it stirring till it is of a proper thickness, and then pour it into cups. Cream, Sweetmeat.—Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums, into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in ; mix all well together, and put into your basin. Cream {Syrup o/).—May be preserved the same as cream (^ee receipt for keep- ing cream), in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of per- fectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three liours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus lor several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. Cream Tart.—Put into a sfewpan two spoonsful of fine flour, with the yolks of six eggs, reserving the whites of them. Mix the flour in a quart of milk, and .sea- son it with sugar and a stick of cinn.a- mon; keep it stirring with a ladle, and put in a good lump of sugar ; the cream being half done, put in some grated lemon-pec), some preserved lemon-peel, shred small, and some hitter almond- biscuits ; let the, whole be thorougldy done; when ready, let it lie cold, then lit an under crust of puff-paste in a akingpan, with a border of paste, and put your cream over it; mix it with some orange-flower water, and the whites of egg.s, heat up to a froth : take care not to over-fill your custard; and let it be done, either in the oven, or under the cover of a baking pan, with fire under and over. When ready, and glazed with sugar, serve it up hot. Cream Taffaty.—Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose-water, to a froth; put them into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it rises; boil it, and keep it cuntinaally stirring. _ Then having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, and slip in the eggs; stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. Cream Toast. — Take a pound of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger; lay them in a silver dish; put to them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk; tlien strew sugar and lieaten cinnamon over them; turn them often till they are soaked tender, but not so tender but you may- turn them without breaking; then lake them from the cream with a slice or skimmer; break three or four raw eggs; turn the slices of bread in the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter, till they are of a good brown colour, taking great rare not to burn or black them ; scrape a littlesugar round them. Drainihem well from the butter in which tkey were fried, and serve them hot for a second couise. Cream, Toiirte d 1'Anglaise.*—Pre- pare a crust in the usual way, and fill it with a pretty firm cream pdfissicre, mixed with two ounces of currants, two ounces of raisins, stoned, an ounce of cedrat, cut into dice, a little crisped orange-flower, the rind of a lemon, grated on some sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and half a glass of white wine. When filled, bake it like other tourtes, and serve it hot. Cream Tourte with Spinach.*— and blanch about two haiidsful of spinach; chop it very small, and put it into a saucepan, with three ounces of butter; stir it over a moderate fire, and when all the water is evaporated, add four spoons- ful of cream pdtissierc, half a glass of double cream, three ounces of powder- sugar, two of bitter mvcar.rons crushed, a little crisped orange-flower, and n grain of salt. Mix these ingredients together well, and pour it into a crust prepared in the usual wav; mask the top of the cream with filberts, blanched and mixed