( ISl ) COF C O F sweeten it with sugar according to dis- cretion ; beat up six yolks of eggs, with about four cups of collee, mid sift it; pour this into little moulds in tlie form of eggs, or of any other, (do not fill them qiiite), and bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or with a brazing-pan ; cover between two fires. They are made after this manner, in the shape of any fruits or birds, if you have proper moulds, either of copper or china. See. Coffee Fanchonnettes. * — Roast a quarter of a pound of coflee, and infuse it for a quarter of an hour in three glasses of milk; cover it quite close; pass it through a napkin, and then add it to the other ingredients, and proceed as directed. (See Fanchonnettes). To flavour these with chocolate, grate a quarter of a pound, and mix with the other ingredients, instead of the coffee; in this latter, two ounces of sugar must be omitted. Coffee au Fromage.—The mode of in- fusing coffee for creams is by throwing your cofl'ee into thewhole ofyour cream; but in making coffee au fromage, only use one half of the cream for the infusion, which, when cold, mix with the other half. Beat the whole on ice, add isin- glass, and then fill the mould, &c. &c. Coffee Fromage Bavarois, of. * — Having roasted a quarter of a pound of coffee, put it into two glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm, pass it through a napkin; then mix with it half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated, strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take, mix with it a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as all other Frnmnges Bavarois. Coffee Frothed or fVhipped.*—Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag; having dissolved three quarters of a pound of powder sugar in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in the cof- fee, of which there should be no more than three cups, and whip it as directed ior frothed cream. Coffee Ice Cream.—Make three dishes of strong coflee ; pour it ofl' very dear, to mix with three half pints of cream, or the same proportion for more or less, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold, ice it. Coffee Ice d I'Italienne.*—Infuse a quarter of a pound of roasted cofl’ee in a pint of double cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered; half whip the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the cream from the cofl’ee, mix it wiUi them, add half a pound of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual \vay. Coffee au daune d’ (Ei//.*—Put into a basin the yolk of an egg, and some sugar; then gently pour upon them one cup of cofl’ee, carefully beat them to- gether that they may he well mixed ; add to them one cup of water ; then put the whole into a bain-marie to \varm, keeping it constantly stirring with a spoon to prevent its curdling; when it is warm, serve it out in cups. You may add to it if you please a teaspoonful of orange flower water. Coffee Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of the best cofl’ee, and having made an infusion of it, strain,and add to it two glasses of white brandy, and some lemon- juice, and finish the jelly in the usual way. (See Currant Jelly framhoisce.) (joFFEE Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw die rest into throe glasses of nearly boiling water; cover it close, and let it cool. In the meantime, boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of cof- fee, (which should be ground), adding a little isingl.ass; when perfectly clear, pour it to the other infusion, having pre- viously strained it through a silk sieve ; filter the whole, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of kirschwasser. Finish with ice, as usual. Coffee MIA-.—Boil a desert spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to prow fine. Coffee Varjait Amour. — For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee in powder; a little salt, two cloves, a little cinnamon ; then mix all together for twelve hours before you distil it; two pounds of sugar, two bottles and half a pint of water, clarified with whites of eggs, filtered through the paper. Coffee Paste.—To half an ounce of gum dragon, dissolved inaglass ofwater, put an ounce of cofl’ee powder; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar, with as rnuch sugar-powder a'S is neces- sary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. Coffee Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, have abotit the quantity of two cu])s of cofl’ee made with water, which put to your sugar, and mix