TR U ( 472 ) 1’ R U them stew for an liour. When done, dr.ain them on a clean doll), and serve on a folded napkin. TiiurFLns d I’llalienne.*—Cut about a handful of truffles eitlier into slices or dice; put them into a stevvpan with a little butter ; sweat them over a slow fire; then moisten with half a glass of Champagne, aitd two spoonsful of reduced espagnole ; add some shred parsley, atul shalots, salt, and pepper; give tlie whole a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, and serve. TauFFLES (to keep).*—Make a choice of the blackest truffles; let tliem be fresh gatliered ; when thoroughly washed and brushed, peel them carefully with a sharp knife, reject all which are not perfectly sound ; put them into bottles as clo.se as they will lay; cork them tight, and boil them for an hour in the hain-marie. TnuFFLES d la Minute.* — Take as many well washed truffles as you may requii'e; slice them into a dish that will bear the fire ; add to them, shred parsley, scallions, and shalots, salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish, and set it on the fire.' When done, serve with a little lemon-juice. Truffle Omelet,*—Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done, with a spoon take out the thick part of the mid- dle, and put in its place some truffles, lightly fried in a little eipagnole; as soon as the omelet is finished, lay it on a dish ; mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little but- ter, add four ladiesful of espagnole, and pour this sauce over the omelet. Truffles d la Piedmontaise.*—Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, oil which put a layer of the truffles, seasoned with salt and pepper, tlien a layer of grated Par- mesan clieei-e.and so on alternately, until you have as much in your dish as you think proper, and set it in tiie oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be suffi- cient to cock them. Truffles d la Provenoale.*—Cut some truffles into slices, put them into a sauce- fi.tn with oil, parsley, two cloves of gar- ic, salt and popper. Set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the mean time dissolve a good bit of butter, rolled in flour, in some good stock ; then add half a glass of white wine, and let it huil lor lialf an hour, take off all the fat; and when tlie truffles are done, and drained, serve with the sauce poured over them. Truffles (Ragoilt of). — Peel, and slice a dozen truffles, put them into a saucepan, with a little bulter, parsley, Ecalliona, half a clove of gailic, anti two cloves; let them simmer a minute or two, add a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock; let it stew half an hour ; clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. Truffles (Hagoiit of).*—Choose your truffles as round as you can, wash them in several waters, until the last water is quite clear; pick and cut them into slices or dice; give them a few turns in a little Imtter, with grated nutmeg, pars- ley, scallions, hall a clove of garlic, and two cloves; boil them with some con- somme and espagnole; take oft’the fat, reduce and finish the ragoflt with a glass of Champagne and a little butter. 'Pruffle Sauce.*—Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly, in either oil or butter, according to your taste ; then put to them four or five ladiesful of veloute, and a spoonful of consomme ; let it boil fur about a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off all the fat; keep your sauce hot in the hain- marie. Truffle Sauce.—Take eight truffles, clean, and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices into a stewpan, set them to stew very gently with a small bit of butter; when well stewed, arid two table-spoonsful of consomme, and let it .simmer till nearly dry ; then put in some bechamelle sauce, the quantity must be regulated according to what you want it for; make it very hut, squeeze in a little lemon-juice; it is then ready. If you wish the sauce to be brown, put in espag- nole instead of bechamelle sauce. Trufflese« Surprise.*—Take a dozen large truffles, of as good a shape, and as near of a size, as possible; dress them in someChampagnewine,drain, and letthem ccol; then place them on the flattest side, and witii a lo-it-cutter of an inch diame- ter, mark out the centre to within a fourth of their thickness; cut the top of these out with the point of a knife, and clear away the remainder; fill up the space thus left with a puree at fowl nr ganie, a salpicon. or any ragofit. or other f.uree, mixed with bechamelle, you may think proper; when all are filled, cover the aperture with the piece taken out, and serve your truffles either in a cremstade, or on a foldeil napkin. Truffles {Toiirte of).* — Take two pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; put them into a stewpan. with .six thin slices of ham, a very little car- rot, a sliced onion, a bny-b’af, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and Champagne ; lay rashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to neai ly n jelly. 'V hen cold, put the truffles into a crust with all the seasoning; bake the iourte, and serve as usual.