C A K ( 94 ) C A K whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, beat thc^'olksofsix with a little bramly, mix this very well; butter the pans,only half fill them ; they are baked in half an hour ; a brisk, not a scorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable, make them with currants, put three quarters of a pound. Cakes (Dutch).—Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of carraway-secds, half a pound of sugar, and something more than a pint of milk; put into it tlu-ee quarters of a pound of butler; then make a hole in the middle of the Hour, and put in a pint of good ale yeast; pour in the butter and milk, and make these into a aste, letting it stand a quarter of an our before the fire to rise; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an hour. Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce ofcarraway-seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very proper for young peo- ple and delicate stomachs. Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of flour with a pint of good cream, half a pound of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, half a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, and salt; bake it as all other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or garnish it. Cakes (made of Flowers).—Boil double refined sugar to a candy height, and strew in your flowers and let them boil once up ; then, with your hand, lightly strew in a little double refinedsugar sifted, and •put it directly into little pans made of card, and pricked full of holes at the bottom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, and when they are cold, take them out. Cake, en Foun-is.* — Make a pull- paste, form it into two equal parts the size of the dish in which you mean to place your cake, and the thickness of two crowns eacli ; then take one of the cakes and put upon it some sweetmeats, leav- ing .about an inch, as a border, all round; wet it witli water and place tlie other cake upon it, draw up the edges care- fully with your fingers ; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake tlieni in an oven. Cake,(i la Fra>icaise.*—Tjke a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it one ounce of salt, two ounces of suirar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs ; mix the whole well tt^ether, work up your paste; if it is toosiifl', moisten it with a little milk; then leave it to stand for half an hour, tlien add to it half a pound of butter, and give it four turns, the same as putt'-paste; put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut it)e edges in form of a lozenge, gild it, put it iipoB a baking-tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a mo- ' * derate oven. Cakes (Gum).— Take gum-draeon, let it lie all nigbt in rose-water, till it i» dissolved; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seered, and mix your gum and sugar together; make it up into a p.aste, then roll some up plain, and some with herbs and flowers; all the paste must be kept separately, the herbs and flowers must be beat small before you make them into paste; but you may use the juice of the flowers and herbs only; sweet marjoram, red roses, mari- golds, clove, gilliflowers, and blue-bottle berries, all clipped from the white; wl)en you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rolling-pin and a knife, or else the colours will mix; first lay a white, and then a colour, then a wliite again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them the bigness of a sixpence, but in wliat form you please, minding that they are rolled very thin. Cakes (Heart).—With your hand work a pound of Iwitter to a cream, then put to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of good brandy, and a pound of currants washed and dried before the fire. .rVs the nans are filled, put in two ounces of canuied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till yon put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three dozen of middlicg-sizcd pans. Cakes (Honeycomh).—Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must be cut; have little papers with four corners ready; drop some of your candy 0)1 the papers, take them oir when ready, and if tliev are rightly done, they will look full of boles like iionevcombs. Cakes( W.V(/e BrtrA-).—Take two pounds of flour, four ounces of common sugar, and half an ounce of carraway-secds pounded; then set a sponge with half a gill of yeast and .a little warm milk; when it works, take some boiling milk, add to it five ounces of fresh butter, mix it up liglit, and let it lie some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven.