( 476 T U R TUR of lean, take two pounds of fat bacon, mince them small, and add salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs; lard your turkey witli moderate-sized lardons well season- ed. Spreadall oyer the bird alayerof the farce an inch thick, on which place truf- fles, tongue d I’ecarlate, bacon, turkey, fowl, and fat liver?, alt cut into pieces about half an inch thick, and an inch and a half long; cover these with ano- ther layer of farce, and continue this operation alternately till all the farce is used; then roll up the turkey, nearly in its proper form, but so that none of the farce may escape; sew it up, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse cloth with four or five bay-leaves, tie it closely; place it in a braising-pan on slices ot bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, the bones of the turkey, four bay-leaves, a little thyme, three cloves, and three ladiesful or more of stock ; cover your braising-pan close, and set it on the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. When done, take it from the fire, but leave the turkey in for iialf an hour ; on taking it from the pan, press it gently to get out all the gravy; when quite cold, unwrap the bird ; strain the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up an egg in it, set it on the fire, stirring till it boils, then put it by the side of the stove, with fire on the saucepan-lid; in about half an hour, strain it again, and leave it to cool. Turkey Giblets a la Boxirgeoise.—The pinions, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard, compose the giblets; when scalded, put them into a stewpan, with a little hotter, parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, bay- leaf, basil, mushrooms, and a clove or two; moisten these with stock ; season with pepper and salt; make it all quite hot, thicken with a little flour; when nearly done, add a few turnips slightly fried m a little hutter. Turkey Giblets (Fricassee of).—Scald thoroughly the giblets from as many turkies as will make a handsome dish, then stew them well in two ounces of butter, as directed for them d la bour- geoise. AVhen done, tike out the herbs, make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, a little cream, and some vinegar, and serve, Turkey in its own Gravij.—Takeout the breast-bone of a turkey, and stulT it with a sweetbread scalded, mushroom sut into small pieces, grated bacon, pepper and salt; put the turkey, covered with slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just large enough to hold it, with a very little ctock, a quarter of pint of white wine, a bunch ot sweet herbs, thyme, bay-leaf. a few cloves, and a little nutmeg; let it braise slowly, and turn it two or three times : when done, skim the saur.e, strain it, add a chopped shalot, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the turkey. Turkey Hashed.— Cut up the remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine,chopped pars- lay shalots, mushrooms, truffles, salt and pepper, two spoonsful of cullis, and a little stock ; boil half an hour, and re- duce to a thick sauce ; when ready, add a pound of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon; skim oft' all the fat from the sauce, and serve all together. Turkey Hashed.—Stir a piece of but- ter rolled in flour into some cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils up; mince some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but not too small; put it into the sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, pound- ed mace, a little mushroom ketchup or mushroom powder; simmer it up, and serve. Oysters may be added. Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the white part, mix it with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a small bit of butter warmed, and fill the patties. Turkey xeith Oysters.—Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some slices of fat bacon over the breast, boil it gently in braise or in stock-pot, take.it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it: take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it; set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good oyster sauce. Some stuffing should he put into the crop as directed for Turkey Roasted. Turkey Pie (Raised) with Tongue.— Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle of the turkey, with a light, well seasoned forcemeat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay some forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the tui- key must be cold), with rashers of fat ba- con tied over it, then put on the lid,oma- ment it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, takeoff the lid, take out the bacon, ghaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. Turkey Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a Tittle white gravy, a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and serve in the middle of the dish, with the above all round. Turkey en Ragoitl,— Have a ragout