RAD ( 432 RAI ttieat from tlie back, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, witli some milk tliickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little nutmeg, and salt, and let them stew for six or eight minutes, until the sauce becomes of the consistence of cream ; make a forcemeat with a pound of veal, the same quantity of suet, an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, two anchovies, some lemon-peel grated, a little thyme, and a nutmeg, grated; mix the whole together, with the yolks of two eggs : place it round the rabbits, leaving each side of the back-bone open to put the meat in which was cut oflf; lay in the meat, and smooth it over with a raw egg: make it square at both ends, butter a aish, and put the rabbits upon it with great care, and put them into the oven to bake tor three hours; they must be done to a fine brown colour ; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them gravy, thickened with butter, add the squeeze of a lemon. Rabioles.*—Take a pound of flour, place it on a slab, make a hole in the middle, into which put three eggs, work them well in, until your paste becomes firm and smooth, then roll it out as thin as paper, adding as little flour as pos- sible. Have ready some quenelle farce, mixed with a little grated Parmesan, bur- rage, (scalded and shred), some boiled milk, and cream cheese, nutmeg, cinna- mon, the yolks of two eggs, and some pepper, or a mignonette. Lay this/arce in small portions, at equal distances, over half the paste, moisten the edges, and turn the other half on it; press it down round the bits of/arce, and then cut it into small square pieces; put these into some good stock, when they have boiled five minutes and rise to the top, take them out, and drain them. Take a soup tureen, pour a ladieful of gravy into it, then put in a layer of the rabioles, another of Parmesan cheese, grated, some melted butter, and then just cover them with gravy. Seive very hot. RADISHES, au Blond.* — Boil in some stock, and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan, with veal blond; simmer them for half an hour; add a little nutmeg and verjuice ; stir them occasionally, and when the radishes are flavoured and well coloured, dish them, strew bread-crumbs over, and brown it in the oven. Radishes, in. Broth.* — Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them into halves or quarters accord- ing to their size, and boil them with a slice of haenn in some stock. In a little time take them out, drain, and put them into another stewpan, with con- somme, or veal gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew gently in this till they are flavoured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick ; then serve them. Ragout, Chipolata.* — Cut into the shape of an olive, twenty-four pieces of carrots, the same of turnips, onions and chesnuts ; blanch, and then dress them in some coTisowiwi^, with a little sugar; boil a dozen small sausages, and as many slices of sfreaky bacon in water; put all your garnish into a stewpan, with twenty champignons, a ladleful of espagnole, first working it up with the bottoms of the entree, for which the ragout is in- tended. Serve as hot as possible. Ragout, a. la Financiere.* — Take twenty-four large champignons, and as many truffles, cut into little balls, put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of Madeira, two allspice, a little tomata, and an ounce of veal glaze; reduce the whole to a jelly, and then add four ladiesful of espa^ole ; work up two spoonsful of veal blond; boil it up, set it on the side of the stove, reduce, and strain it, then put the champignons and truffles into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, with the addition of twenty-four cocks’ combs, and kidnies, twenty-four quenelles, twelve lamb or veal sweetbreads, either sliced or not, as you please. Ragout d la Providence.* — Take twenty pieces of well salted streaky ba- con, as many small sausages boiled, twenty champignons, as many quenelles, made of the shape and size ot thesaru- sages, peel and turn the same number of chesnuts, cut twelve truffles into balls, and put all these articles into a stewpan, with a glass of madeira, a little glaze, cocks’-combs and kidmes; add some clarified gravy, make the i^oflt quite hot and serve. Twenty or thirty olives, turned and blanched, may be added, if yott think proper. Ragout « la Toulouse.*—Take the same ingiedients as for the Financiere, put them into a saucepan, with some half glaze of fowl, dress all together, ex- cept the quenelles; add a ladieful of alle- mande. I’ut your ragout into the bain- marie, to heat it without letting it boil. If the sauce he too thick, dilute it with fowl consomme. ' Raisin (Fine.* — One hundred of Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water, wine measure; boil the water with half a pound of hops in for an hour; let it stand till cold ; then put it on the fruit; let it remain three weeks, sfriing it every day ; press it olT, and put it into the cask ; do not bung it down till the