LAM ( 302 ) LAM a slo\r, but dear fire for half an hour. Serve them either dry or with clear gravy. Lamb’s Feet en Gratin*—Take a dozen of lamb’s feet, and set them to stew d la braise, with eighteen or twenty small onions; whilst they are stewing, makesi gruiin, with some bread-crumbs, a little scraped cheese, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the ■whole together, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom ; then put the lamb’s feet, and the small onions intermixed, upon the gratin; let the whole simmer a little over the fire; drain oil'the fat, and serve a good sauce over. Lamb’s Feet en Marinade.*—The feet being blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or (in case you have none) in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pep- per. After they have lain a sufficient time, drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. Lamb’s Feet Stvffed,*—Prepare your feet in the usual manner, but before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl que- nelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg, and sweet herbs shred small, sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes; let them- cool, dry and singe them. Make a thick Mane, put the feet in it, and sim- ■mer them for about two hours, then drain, trim, and serve them with a green sauce Hollandoise. Lamb’s />y.—Fry it of a nice colour, and serve witli a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb (Grass) Sleaks.—Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, season them with pep- per and salt, and fry them; when done, put them intoa dish, pour out the butter. Shake a little flour into the pan, put in a little beef stock, a little catsup and walnut pickle. Boil this up, stirring it all the tinle. Put in the steaks, and give them a shake round; serve them to •table, garnished with crisped parsley. Lasib Hashed d I’Anglaise.*—Put a slice of butler intoa stewpan, with a few mushrooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire, ■with a little flour, moistening with stock, then let the mushrooms stew till the sauce is nearly consumed ; next put in some small slices of cold roast lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beat up in milk. Thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and, before serving, add a sprinkling of vinegar. Lamb’s Head*—Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it; when cola, dry and singe it; tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragofit made with the liverj sweetbread, feet, mushrooms, all done in a blanc. Lamb’s Head, to Dress.—Boil a head and pluck tender, taking care not to do the liver too much; take out the head, and cut it in all directions with a knife. Then grate some nutmeg over it, and lay it on a dish, before a good fire. Take some bread crumbs and some sweet herbs rubbed, a little lemon-peel, finely chopped, and a very small quantity of pepper and salt. Strew these over the head, and baste it with a little butter; then throw on a little flour, and just as it is done, baste and dredge it. Take half the liver, the lights, the heart and tongue, and chop them very small, with six or eight spoonsful of gravy or water. First shake some flour over the meat, and stir it together; then put into the gravy or water, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and the gravy that runs from the head into the dish. Simmer them all togetlier a few minutes, and add half a spoonful of vinegar. Put it into your dish, and place the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready the other half of the liver cut thin, with some slices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnish with lemon. Lamb’s Head, Conde Fashion. — Steir it in a white braise, and serve it with a sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, chopped parsley, scalded, and a little nutmeg. Lamb’s Head jl/zneerf.—Split the head in half, and blanch it with the liver, lights, and heart; then chop the he.art, &c. and add to them a little parsley, chopped very fine, a small quantity of shredded lemon-peel, and some culiis; stew it gently till done, and season it, Wash the head over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to be served up, colour it with a salamander. Clean the brains in warm ivater, wHpe them dry, dip them in yolks of egg .and bread- crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers of bacon. La.mb's Head Sfctced.—Take out the brains, and make n farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it into pieces ; then mince some lamb and beef suet together irith the brains; add some grated bread.