COD 178 ) C O F tlie yolks of six ogga. Boil and drain the tail of a salted cod, take out all the meat, but leave in the bone; cut the meat to pieces ; put into a stcwpan a piece of butter, some mushrooms cut in bits, parsley, scallions, shalots, and gar- lic, all minced; do it up over the lire, then add a spoonful offlour, a little milk, and coarse pepper. Boil this until very thick, when the fish should be put in with the yolks of three eggs ; keep it on the fire, a little wliile, but do not let it boil, and then set it to cool. Put the piil bone on the table-dish, wrap the end in a buttered paper, surround the bone with part of the first mentioned mixture, then put in the ragofit, cover it with the remainder of the farce, and form the whole into the shape of the cod’s tail, brush it over with egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, and bake it. When done, clean the edges of the dish, and put into it some sauce made with a glass of stock, a bit of butter worked with flour, a spoon- ful of verjuice, salt, and pepper; thicken it over the fire. CODLINGS, Grillees. — Take three fresh codlings, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a mo- derate fire, till well done and of a good colour on both sides, or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread, as di- rected for turbot. Serve them with sauce a I’espagnoie. Codlings with Sweet Herbs,—Cut a codling into six or eight pieces, bone it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon-juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped ; then lay it on the table-dish with all the niarinade,both under and over it; cover it with bread- crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted, close to each other; bake it in the oven ; it will require but a short time baking. Codlings, pickled like Mangoes.— Make a brine of water and salt, strong enough to bear an egg: take codlings full grown, but not ripe ; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days; then dry them, and scoop out the cores, take out the stalks BO that you may put them in again in the mom of the core ; fill them with ginger, sliced very thin, a clove of garlick, and whole mustard-seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie It up tight; put to them as much white-wine vinegar with cloves of gar- lic, whole mustard-seed, and sliced ginger as will cover them: pour this pickle upon them boiling hot every other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep lliein in stone jars. This will imi- tate the real raangoe better than cu- j cumber. | CoDLiNG7’arf.—Scald some codlings, let I them stand an hour in the same water I covered, which will make them look j green, then put them into your tart, | either whole or quartered, put in sugar, [ and a little musk, close them up, and i let it bake; boil a quart of cream with I the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a little musk; when your tart is half baked, cut it open, jnd pour your cream, &c. on the codlings; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some \ sugar over it, and serve it up hot. COFFEE.*—The coflee-pot should be three parts full of boiling water; the coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well stirred between each; then boil | gently, still stirring to prevent the mix- 1 ture from boiling over as the coflee ' swells, and to force it into combination 1 with the water, this will be effected in I a few minutes, after which, the most ‘ gentle boiling must be kept up during | an hour. The coffee must then be re- ' moved from the fire to settle, one or two i spoonsful of cold water thrown in assists ■ the clarification, and' precipitates the I grounds. In about an hour, or as soon I as the liquor has become clear, it is to be ! poure.d into another vessel, taking care !i not to disturb the sediment. Coffee made in this manner will be of the finest flavour, and may be kept three days in summer, and four or five in win- i ter; when ordered for use, it only re- quires heating in the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two minutes’ notice. The grounds or sediment which re- main, will make a second quantity of coffee, by boiling with fresh water for an hour; this is frequently used by seiwantsi As this process requires some, time, and a little attention, it is frequently the custom for the cook to make it in the evening, when the hurried work of the day is over. Coffee (French Methctlof preparing it).*—1st. Let your coffee be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2d. Divide the quantity that is to be roasted into two parts. 3d. Roast the first part in a coffee- roaster, the handle of which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes the colour of dried almonds or bread-raspings, and has lost one eighth of its weight. 4th. Roast the second part until it as- sumes the fine brown colour ofehesnuts, and has lost one-fifthbf its weight. 5th. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee-mill.