A L M ( 4 ) A L M water, put but a small quantity of the latter at a time, as it is very powerful. Almonds {green).—The same proceed- ing: the colour is made with two hand- fuls of fresh spinach, well washed, drain- ed, and then pounded ; when very line, press it through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a dish, which place on a hot stove ; as soon as it begins to boil, take it off, stirring it constantly, till the green curdles, then pour it through a horse- hair sieve, and when well drained strain it through a silk sieve or tammy; the juice thusobtained, will give the almonds (which must be put in a fevv at a time) a clear and even green colour. Almonds {blue).—Dissolve a little in- digo in water, strain it through a cloth and use it as above mentioned. _ Almonds {orange coloured).—Mix a little liquid red, and a little infusion of saffron together, and proceed with the almonds as usual. Almonds {lemon coloured).—Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly boil- ing water for a few minutes ; strain and follow the above direction. Almonds {chncolale colotcred).—Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in water and strained. The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, &c. according fo fancy. Observe that the colour of your almonds should be light and delicate; when done, place them, either separately or mixed together, in paper cases. Almonds {burnt) Conserve of.*— Blanch and cut six ounces ol sw'eet al- monds into small strips, lay them on paper and put them into an oven; when they are brown, take them out, and throw them into two pounds of sugar boiled to velit cassS, stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. Almond Coupeuux.* Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with the whites of thiee eggs into a very line paste, add to it six ounces of powder- ed sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; ■when thoroughly mixed together, pour over it about four spoonsful of orange- flower water; stir up the paste (whi<h ought to be rather thiu,) once more, and then lay it with a spoon on aplateol bright copper, in an oval form, about three or four inches in length. The plate being quite full, take it up by both hands, and btrike it steadily upon a table, so that the paste may be extended, but itot much ; then bake them until they become of a deep yellow. Take them from the cop- per with a kr.ifc, and whilst hot p\it them on a wooden roller, iibout the thickitess of an arm, and press them with your hand. that they may acquire the form of tlie wood, and when cool place in a Iwx, and keep them dry. These coupeaux are very brittle. Almond Cream.*—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and pound them very line ; whip up ttie whiles of two eggs with a pint ef milk and four ounces of powder sugar; boil the milk over a gentle fire till reduced to a quarter, then add the almonds, let it boil a minute or two; pour in a spoonful of orange flower-water. When cold, garnish it with almonds uu caramel. Almond Cream.—Put a pint of milk and a pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon peel, into a stewpan, to boil very gently lor twenty minutes; in the mean while, blanch and pound very fine, three ounces of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter almonds ; then take the milk and cream from the fire, into which (while hot) stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of two or three eggs and clarified sugar (boiled to caramel height) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy, and, with a wooden spoon, well rub and squeeze it through; do this a second time, then squeeze into the cream two ounces of well clarified isin- glass, the whole being together in a basin, have your mould ready in ice, into which put the cream; when set, turn it out as any other jelly. Almond Cream.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, a pint of good milk, and five ounces of sugar; peel the almonds and throw them into cold water; when well drained, pound them with a little water. Beat up in the milk the whites of two eggs, in which dissolve the sugar, and then boil it on a slow fire; when atout a quarter of the quantity is wasted away, add to it the almond paste, boil these together once, put in a little orange flower, and strain it. Let it stand, and when cold serve it. garnish it with al- monds au caramel broiled, di.sposed ac- cording to your taste. Almonds Crisped.*—Bub a pound of the bestsweet almonds in a cloth to take oil'all the dust, and then put them, with H pound of sugar, half a glass of water and a little carmine, into a preserving pan ; put them on the fire, and let them remain ; when the almonds crackle take them oll’and work them about until the sugar !s detached from the almonds. the:t take away part of the sugar, put the al- monds on the fire iigain, and stir them lightly with a spatula, (be careful that the fire be not too quick); and when they have taken thesugar, add that which had been removed, and continue to burn them till they have imbibed th.at also. Place