113) CAP CAN paste with currant jelly,or any other jelly or sweetmeat you please. Cannellojjs Fried.*—Roll out some pufl-paste very thin and long-, moisten the sjirface lightly, and place along it, at equal -distances, small ouantities of apri- cot, peach, or any other marmalade; spread it about two inches and a half long, but not more than half an inch in width; turn the remainder of the paste over, press down the edges, then cut the cannellons, leaving a quarter of an inch beyond the marmalade each way; press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserve; and when all are cut, put them into a pan and fry them; when done, drain them in a napkin, and sprin- kle them with powder-sugar. Caxnellons Glacis.—Roll out some pufF-paste thin, and about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty- four strips; have by you as many pieces of beech-wood turned, about six inches long, aqd three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces _ of wood, and having moistened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest endj so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length; lay them on baking-plates, pretty distant from each other, dorez and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze; as soon as you re- move them from the oven, take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for ta.tde, fill them with apple or any other jelly you may chuse. Cannellons Meringues* — Whip the whites of two eggs, and having mixed them with two spoonsful of powder- sugar, then mask the cannellons; when baked, crush a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and roll the cannellons in it; re- place them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The masking of these cannellons may be varied according to taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &o. the former cut in pieces, the latter well washed, dried and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. Cannellons d la Parisienne.*—Make twenty pannequets, garnish them with apricot or quince marmalade; roll them as usual, and then cut each in half, trim, and dip them in eggs, like croquettes, bread and fry them. When done, glaze and serve them immediately. These cannellons may also be covered with creams, or preserves of any kind you please. Cannellons Pralimswith Filberts.*— Wince a quarter of a pound of filberts, and mix them with two ounces of powder sugar, and a very little white of egg: prepare the cannellons ns above; just before you put them into the oven, roll them in the filberts, so*as to cover them with that mixture ; take care to return each to its place on the baking-plate; put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. Cannellons with Sugar.* — Prepare the cannellons as usual, roll them in grained sugar, and finish. CAPERS, To Pickle.—The tree that bears capei-s is called the caper shrub or bush, of which they are the flower-buds. They are common in the western parts of Europe, and we have them in some of our gardens ; but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are sent us from Lyons, but they are flatter, and not so firm. Some come from Majorca, but they are salt and disagreeable. They gather the buds from the blossoms before they open, then spread themmpon the floor of a room where no sun enters, and there let them lie till they begin to wither. They then throw them into a tub of sharp vinegar, and after three days, they add a quantity of bay-salt. When this is dissolved, they are fit for packing, and are sent to all parts of Europe. The finest capers are those of a moderate size, firm, and close, and such as have thej.pickle highly flavoured. Those which are soft, flabby, and half open, are of little value. Capeus, Fine and Coarse.*—The fine capers are made use of in garnishing dressed salads, and to put whole into sauces; the coarser sorts are used in sauces where it is necessary to chop up the capers. Caper Sauce for Fish. — Take Some inelted butter, into which throw a small bit of glaze; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. Caper Sauqe d la Franqoise.—Take some capers, cut_ them small; put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers ; let them boil up two or three times, and pour into a boat. Caper Sauce (to imitate),—Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a bad colour, then cut it up, (but do not chop It fine); put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. Caper Sauce for Meat.—Take some capers, chop half of tliein very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and L o