BAR (37) BAR the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring fre- quently ; bring it up, and when it lias stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle : cork it tight. The longer it is kept, the better it will be. „ BALSAM rSywpo/).—Put an ounce of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring water, and boil tliem two hours ; add a pound of white pounded sugar-candy, and boil it half an hour longer. Take out the balsam, and strain the syrup twice ; when cold, bottle it. BAMBOO (Fnglts/i).—Cat the large young shoots of elder, take off the outer peel or skin, and lay them in strong salt ' and water one night. Dry each piece separately in a cloth. Have ready a i pickle made as follows ; to a quart of " vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, • the same of sliced ginger, a little mace 1 and pimento, pour this boiling hot on the t elder shoots, in a stone jar, stop it close, .1 and set it by the fire two hours, turning it :i often. If not green when cold, strain oft' I the liquor, boil, and pour it on as before. BANBURY Cakes. — Make some ; dough with two table spoonsful of thick ) yeast, a gill of warm milk, and a pound < of flour; when it hasworked a little, mix ) with it half a pound of currants washed I and picked, half a pound of candied I orange and lemon peel cut small, all- I spice, ginger, and nutmeg, of each a I quarter of an ounce ; mix the whole to- 1 gether with half a pound of honey. Put them into puft'paste, cut in an oval form ; I cover and sift sugar over : bake them a I quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. BARBADOES Cream.*—Take the ; zests of three fine cedrats, two di-achmsof : cinnamon, and two of mace, and put i them into three quarts of brandy ; close ! the vessel hermetically, and let it infuse I for a week, then distil it in an alembic, j Dissolve over the fire three pounds of I sugar in a quart of pure river water, add I to it half a pound of orange flower water, t work the mixture, and filter it through I a straining bag into bottles for use. _ Babbadoes fVuter.—Take the outer rind of eight large florentine cittons, half : an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and agal- ; Ion of rectified spirit; distil in the 6aiw I marie; dissolve two pounds of sugar in a I quart of water ; mix it with the distilled • liquor; filter and bottle it for use. BARBAnoES fVater (amber-coloured). ■ —Infuse theyellowrindof sixbergamots, I half an ounce of cinnamon, and two I drachms of cloves bruised, for six days I m agallon of rectified spirit; then add a drachm of safl'ron, and let the whole stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add it to the infusion, and filter for use. BARBEL —Boil them in salt and water ; when sufficiently done, pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon ; boil these well to- gether with two or three anchovies, then put in the fish, simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Broiled.—Do them in white pepper, with sweet herbs chopped small, and butter. Barbel Broiled with Sauced I'huile.* —Take a barbel; gut it, scrape off the scales, wash it, let it drain ; wipe it dry ; and split it down the back. Then ma- rinate it in oil, with salt and whole pep- per; broil it whole, being very careful not to let it burn. Sprinkle it with oil; turn it, and take care that the white side is of a nice colour; when it is broiled, dress it a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon (taking out the pips and the white); and serve with Sauce d I'huile. Barbel, d court bouillon.—Take a good sized barbel and draw it, but not scale it; lay it on a dish, and throw on it vinegar and salt scalding hot; then put into your fish pan, white wine, ver- juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, bay- leaves, onion, lemon or orange peel, set it on the fire, and when it boils very fast, put in your barbel, and when boiled enough, take it up and serve it dry upon a clean napkin ; for garnish, parsley or garden cresses. Barbel, Poupeton of.—Scale, bone, and skin two or three barbels of a mo- derate size, lay the flesh on a table with the flesh of a good sized eel, some mush- rooms, parsley, and cives, minced and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet basil shred; pound three or four cloves, with a dozen coriander seedsin a mortar; then putin the minced fish, with a good piece of butler, and pound all together ; set these simmering in milk or cream, and about a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread ; beat up in it tlie yolks of four eggs when it is thick- ened enough, and let it stand to cool; then put into a mortar the yolks of four ravy eggs, and the bread and cream when It IS cold, and pound it well together. Then make a ragoftt of slices of barbel as follows ; first peel small mushrooms, cut some slices of barbel, rub them with melted butter, and broil them; set a saucepan over the fire with a piece of butter, when it is melted, put in a little