SAG ( 441 ) SAL take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more desTable. HUFFS and Rees —These are parti- cularly delicate birds, ai)d should there- fore be handled very lightly in the pick- ing; they must be run, side by side, upon a long skewer, and roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good dis- tance from the fire, and basted with but- ter; serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM —Toaquart bottle of com- mon white wine, add a pound of lump sugar reduced to a syrup and clarified ; then take, an ounce of isinglass, dissolve it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm ; when this mixture is nearly cold, pour it into the white wine, stir it well so as to mix it completely; then add a spoonful (or rather more, according to the strength you desire) of old Jamaica rum; stir it and pour it into a mould, or glasses, if intended to hand round for evening parties. RUSKS.—Melt four ounces of butter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, put this mixture, by degrees, into as much flour as will make an ex- tremely light paste, more like batter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stifFer, but notstitt'. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and brotvn them a little in the oven. S. SAGO.—Let it soak for an hour in cold water, to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until the berries are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. Sago Milk.— When well cleansed, boil it slowly with new milk. A small quan- tity wilt be suflicient for a quart of milk, it swells so much, and when done, it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. Sago Ihulding. — Roil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon, and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four ounces ol chopped marrow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, sugar according to taste; when the sago is cold, add this mixture toil; slir the whole welj together, and put it in a dish lined with a light pull- paste, and set it in a modertite oven to hake; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanch- ed and cut in slips. Sago Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk ; when cold, add five eggs, two Naples biscuits, a little brandy, and sweeten according to taste; put this into a basin and boil. Serve with melted butter mixed with wine and sugar. Sago Pudding.*—Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm); then put it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and heat wp with it half a pound of fresh butter ; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, beaten separately, half a glass of white wine, sugar according to taste, and a little flour; mix all together well, and boil it. Serve with sweet sauce. Sago Soup.— Wash your sago in the same manner as rice, and boil it in fowl consomme until quite a jelly ; have ready a puree of game, heated in the ham- marie; mix the sago with this, whilst both are boiling hot; if too thick, add more fowl consomme, and glaze of game; soak your bread as usual, and serve the soup. SALAD.*—Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash them, and drain the water from them ; then cut them into small pieces, find intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet- root, cut in pieces, some nice young radishes cut into small pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces, and garnished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon ; add a little pepper, salt, and mustard ; when these are mixed to a smooth paste, put in a few lea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful, then mix in a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed ac- cording to the directions, it will never require shaking, and will .always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. Salad {Parisian).* — Take five very red carrots, and as many turnips, cut all these with a root-cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-cighthsof an inch in diameter; cut some ai-paragus heads and French beans of the same length ; toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shalot. Out three large par-