(19) APP APP pot of apricota, and the seste of a lemon, shred fine. Make your paste, and pro- ceed aa directed for Petits Gateaux glares of apricota. Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder su^ar. Bake them in a moderate oven and finish them. Apple Pettis UAteaux with Pista~ Chios.*—Make an under crust of the same size and thickness_ as directed for peiits gdteaux glads of apricota, and cover It with apple marmalade : when baked, mash the apples with a little apricot marmalade, and strew over a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, cut in small pieces, and then put it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry the apricots. When cold cut them into the usual forms. Apples and Pistachios, (Gdleatt Pa- risienne of.*—Prepare and toss up a dozen apples for this gkteau with apples and raisins, with the addition of two ounces of sugar, and instead of the eeste of an orange, grate that of a lemon, and putthreeouncesof pistachio nuts blanch- ed, in the place of the raisins. Proceed in the same manner as directed in that recipe, strewing on the dome of the pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six pieces; and when the crown is put round the band, place a pistachio nut in the middle of each meringtie, bake it of a light colour in a slow oven, and serve it hot. Apples and Raisins, ( Gdieaux Pari- sienne o/).*—Pare and cut a dozen ap- ples into quarters, and each quarter into four pieces, put them into a pan with four ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over which the zeste of an orange has been grated, and a quarter of a pound of currants well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes, and then let them cool. Make a round under crust seven inches in diameter, moisten the edge and put ■ on it a band of puli' paste three-quarters |l of an inch high and half an inch thick ; ! put your apples, &c. in this so as to form a sort of dome, cover them with the putt' paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down ; wash it over with white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to ia strong froth,and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with it your V gdleau, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; i|l then, having drained and dried some a currants, mix them with sugar,and strew id them over the dome ; form a crown of It small meringues with the remainder of H' the white ol egg, and place it on the It band ; cover them with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a dear yellow in the oven, and then serve immediately. Apples, Glades.—Peel a dozen of ap- ples and leave the tails ; gore at the op- posite side not quite through, and boil them with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that they may not break; when nearly done, take them out, reduce the syrup to a caramel, and put in the ap- ples, rubbing them all over with it; or you may wrap them in a paste, rasp sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with a white glaze. Apple .lelly.*—Peel any kind of sharp apples, cut them in slices, and wash them in several waters ; then boil them in a covered pot, with a good deal of water, until it is much reduced and be- comes glutinous; strain it through a thin cloth, measure it, and refine an equal quantity of clarified sugar to the twelfth degree (.au cassd,) and pour the apples into it, boil it up and skim it, boil again until it quits the spoon clear by dropping out of it. Apple (clear) Paste is done in the same way. Apple Marmalade.—Boil some pippins till they begin to get tender, then put them into cold water; pare and core them ; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and put it over the fire ; letting it remain till it becomes very thick; then weigh an equal quantity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises in sparkles which cluster together; put the marmalade to it, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till the apple begin to boil; then take it ofif and when a little cool, put it into pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. Apple Marmalade.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into small pieces, put them into water with a little lemon-juice to keep them white. Take them out after a short time and drain them. Weigh, and put them into a stew-pan; if for present use, half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of ap- ples, but if for keeping, double that quan- tity will be necessary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon, and the juice of a lemon. Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consist- ence ; then put the marmalade into pots. Apples Meringvies.—Put some apple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid : whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix them with two spoonsful of powder sugar and a little lemon-peel chopped ex- tremely small ; decorate your apples with this preparation, glaze them with sugar, and colour them in the oven. Apple Meringue,—Lay a timbale paste i