COL ( 18.3 ) COL them lightly; drain and sprinkle them with sugar; glaze and serve them. Fresh fruits may be used also, first infusion is drawn oft' clear, put it to two ounces of sugar boiled to caramel; place it over hot ashes, and when the sugar is dissolved, let it cool; then mix it, and four ounces of powder sugar, with the whippec cream. See that article. Coffee H I'eau, Fromage Buvarots. —Put a quarter of a pound of ground cof- fee gradually into two glasses of boiling water; give it one boil, and when the froth is gone, put in a small piece of isinglass; let it stand a little while, and then pour it oft' clear. Add to this liquid half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass; proceed alter this in the usual way. COLLOPS.—Cut some veal cutlets; fry them a good brown, but not too much ; take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it a few minutes ; add cayenne, catsup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, grated lemon- peel; simmer this up, just heat the col- lops through, add what gravy came from them, but do not let them boil, or they will he hard; add forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs; lay round little slices of bacon, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. CoLLOPs a laBechanielle.—Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shalots, and half a bay leaf; sim- mer these on a slow fire, about a quarter of an hour ; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve ; cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits; put the meat into the sauce, with the oik of one egg, and give them a few oilings together; cut also thin hits of paste, to what form you please, put this ragoflt between two pieces, pinch all round to secure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour. CoLLOPS d la Parisienne.*—Roll out about a pound of brioche paste very thin, and lay on it at intervals, beginning at two inches from the edge, small portions of minced fowl or game, moisten the paste round each portion lightly, turn the plain part over, and with a round paste cutter, cutout the collops, taking care that the minced meat is in the cetitre of each. Leave them for two hours on a well- floured tin, fry them in a warm pan, and when of the proper colour, drain them on a napkin, and serve them. Collops of Preserves. * — Roll out some pulF-paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it at intervals whatever preserves you think proper, roll your paste over, press the ends together, and fay them on a tin; just before they are wanted, fry stewing the fruit. Collops d la Riisse.* Break four eggs into a stewpan, and mix with them two spoonsful of flour, then half a glass of good cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt; when these are well mixed together, pour some of it into a large frying-pan, and fry it of a light colour on both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pan- cakes, until you have a dozen very thin, cut each in half, and trim them into ob- long pieces all the same size: lay on each some quenelle., minced fowl or game, as if for croquettes ; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, having reserved some for the pur- pose ; then have ready beaten, six eggs and a little salt, mask them with bread- crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly. Collops, Scotch, — Cut veal cutlets (taken from the fillet) into small thin pieces, and fry them in a little boiling lard till of a light brown colour. Drain them dry, put them into a stewpan, add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of artichoke bot- toms, some slices of throat sweetbreads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender, season to the palate, and serve them with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLOURING {for Jellies, Cakes, ^-c.) —For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm_ and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water very slowly, half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a hit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a teaeupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT {Syrup of).—Take of coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; boil them in two quarts of spring water till one-fourth is consumed; then strain it, and put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder-sugar ; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it tijl it is nearly as thick as honey. R2