C 0 C f 173 ) COG quart of water ; put in a good piece of sugar; let tliem infuse some time over hot embers, or in a warm place; then strain it for use. Clove Gilly Flowers (Syrup of).— Gather tlie flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red; to a quart of flowers nut two quarts of spring water, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it olij and put in half a pound of double refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes; pour it into a china basin, let it stand to cool, and when it is quite cold, skim it; put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. COCHINEAL Prepared.*—Pound an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and two drachms of alum ; put these in- gredients into a saucepan with half a pint of water; when it boils take it from the fire, and let it cool; pour it off into a bottle, as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. Cochineal, io preserve. — Boil an ounce of cochineal beaten to a fine pow- der, in three quarters of a pint of water, Until reduced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each half an ounce, pounded fine. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time, an ounce of loaf sugar should be boiled with if. COCKLES.*—This fish should be pro- cured a day or two before they are want- ed, that they may be cleaned as much as possible from the grits; they are cleansed as follows: put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch- broom ; change the water each day; and when properly cleaned, put them into a saucepan with hot v/ater, and boil them. As soon as the shells open, they are done, they should be served very not. Cockle Catsup.— Wqsh the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and having pounded them, to every pint of the jiaste, put an equal quantity of sherry ; boil them, and put to them an ounce of salt, the same ef cayenne, and two drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and i rub it through a sieve. When quite cold, ' bottle it. Keep it tightly corked. Cockle Catsup. — Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; when the liquor settles, add a little water, if you have not enough; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick—if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon- juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, <ind white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. Cockles Pickled.—Boil two quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well; then take out the cockles, strain the liquor through a cloth; take a pint of it, and add to it three quarters of an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of cloves, boil these to- gether once, and then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well, add to this a spoonful of salt, three quarters of a pint of white wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pep- per, and let it stand. When cold, put the cockles in small barrels or jars, as close as they will lay; pour in on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them very close. They may be soon eaten. Cockle Sauce.—Scald the cockles in their own liquor, and when the liquor settles, add a little water if necessary; strain, and season with all sorts of spices; and for brown sauce put in a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy; but if the sauce is to be. white, then, instead of these latter ingredients, use sherry, lemon-juice, mace, nutmeg, white pep- per, and lemon-peel. Cockle sauce is also made in the same way as oyster sauce. COCOA Nut Sweet?neat.*—Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water ; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each pound of the cocoa nut) until quite thick; stir it frequently to prevent its burning. Then pour it on a well but- tered dish or marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. Atiothertvay.*—Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar so thick by a great deal; then stir into it whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must be served in jelly glasses. COCOTTES.* — Take a number of small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter, break a new laid egg into every cup; season them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. COCK’S-COMBS and Kidneys in aspic mould in a ves- sel full of pounded ice ; pour into this mould some aspic, (about an inch thick), and ornament it according to your fancy, "'dh truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, cray-fish tails, and cocks’ kid- nies; when that is done, pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments; as soon as it is set, till up your mould with the cock’s-combs and