c n I ( ijs) c ;i I two of ilipm with bacon, two with truflles. or any kind of root you please, and the remaining tiyo with ham ; braise them with a few slices of bacon, some carrots, sweet herbs, consomme^ and half a glass of white wine. When done, take them out, and glaze three of them ; arrange them on a dish, with the sauce, (skim- med, strained, and properly reduced with a little cullis) under them. Chickens ewfreffcwai Plats.—Lard two chickens, partly with ham, and partly with bacon, stuff, and put them into a deep dish, with slices of bacon, pepper, salt, cloves, parsley, carrots, and pars- nips, onions, peeled-lemon sliced, and lialf a glass of rvhite wine; cover them with another deep dish, and place them over the fire ; let them simmer tilt done ; skim, strain, and add some butter and flour to the sauce, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens a la Poele.* —Cut your chickens in half, and do them over the fire w'ith a bit of butter, garlic, two shalots, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, all minc- ed, a little flour, and a glass of white wine, the same of stock, salt and pepper, reduce it to a thick sauce; take off the fat and serve. Chicken and Ham — Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three hours in a close covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter, or the liquor they were baked in. Pound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers, in pot- ting pans, press them down tight, and cover them with butter. Chicken Puffs.—Mmce the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an an- chovy, a little parsley, shalots, and lemon-peel, season these with pepper, salt, cayenne, and beaten mace; set them on the fire a few minutes, in a little bvchamelle; roll out some puff'-paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in each seme of the above mixture ; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard, and serve them on fried parsley. Chickens Pulled.—Cut off the logs, rump, and side-bones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts (without the skin) into shreds; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt and lemon juice, stir them together till the butter is melted; then lay it in a dish, place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously se.asoned and broiledthem. Chickens en Hediusoles.* —P.wt the chickens into quarters, take out all the bones; make a/arec of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and the yolks of two or three eggs; put some of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take off tlie paper very carefully, so as not to remove tlie/arce from the chicken, place it on a hot dish, and pour llond over it. Chickens a la Reine. — Cut all the meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have, been served before, and take out the breast-bone; mince the meat, and make it into a farce with cream, suet, grated bacon; parsley, sha- lots, pepper, salt, nutmeg; unite these with the yolks of four eggs, stuff the chickens with tliis, as if they were whole; smooth them with a knife dipped in wliitc of eggs ; cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them. When of a nice brown colour, pour sauce cl la reine over, and serve. Chickens au Reveil. * — Stuff two chickens with the livers, parsley, scal- lions, two tarragon leaves, all chopped, and mixed together with butter, and having parboiled them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime, put the butter in which the chickens were parboiled, into a stewpan, with two car- rots, two onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, basil; stew, but do not let them he coloured; put in a glass of white wine, and another of stock, and stew them to- gether for half an hour, and then strain it. Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as altogether to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce, on hot ashes, for half an hour. Then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter, worked with flour, salt, aud pepper, thicken, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens Roasted.—When your chick- ens are properly trussed, put them down to a clear fire, and let them roast for a quarter of an hour, froth them well, and serve with gravy, or parsley and butter. Second tray.—Put the chicken between slices of bacon, fasten the feet to tlie spit, and b.sste with its own gravy. Serve with cress round the dish, season- ed with salt and vinegar. The cliicken when covered with bacon should be wrapped in buttered p.-iper, and if re- quired to he of a pale colour, kept on till roasted ; if not. remove the paper shout five minutes before it is done, and finisk it before a clear quick fire.