EEL EEL ( 226 )■ pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, pressing them hard, tliat none may remain ; pour on clarified butter. Ebls a la Poulette.*—Cut your eels (when skinned), into small pieces, and put tliein into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, parsley, scal- lipns, green onions, and a bottle of wliite wine. Set them on the fire till suffi- ciently done; then trim, and put the pieces into another saucepan. Then toss up about twenty small onions, add to them a little butter, flour, and the liquor ia which the eels were done, and which must be strained, mushrooms, parsley, and scullions. When done, take out the anions, put them over th.e eels; skitn, and reduce your sauce, and then, if too tiiin, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs: keep it on the fire, being careful that it does not boil; strain it over your eels, and when ready to serve it, lay some fried bread in a dish, your eels on it, then the onions, &c. and garnish the wliole with cray-fish. Eels, to preserve.—According to the number of your eels, boil a pint of wine, or more, with the proportion of a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of salt, for a bottle of wine; let it cool, and then trim theeelaas for present use; fry them in oil, and a few bay- leaves to three parts: when it is nearly cold, put it in an earthen pot, pour the wine upon it, and the oil is used for fry’ing with the bay-leaves; when it is quite cold, cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. It will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. Eel, Roasted.—Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon-juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shalots, tliyme, and laurel ; then tie each bit to a skewer, wrap it up in paper, well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the ma- rinate, and haste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted butter: serve with whatever sauce you please. Eel, Roulade of.*—Your eels being ropeily skinned, take oil'the meat from ead to tail, if possible, without break- ing; season them with salt and pepper. Make a farce with carp and ancliovies; lay this along the eel, and roll them up, beginning with the tail; tie them up. When all are done, put them into a ready-dressed marinade, and stew them for half an hour; then drain, and dish them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Eel Sauce.—cm the eels into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan. with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two] onions, with all sorts of roots, soak it till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine, and good brotli, a little cujlis, three or four tarragon leaves, chibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and a bay-leaf. Simmer for an nour; skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. Eel Sazisages.—Prepare the meat the same as in the receiptfor Eels en Canape, with this difl'erence, that it must he put into a different form; cut same hits of veal cowl into whatever length and breadth you please, put the pieces of back bone in the farce, and put it into the pieces of cowl, roll them up, and tie them in the form of sausages ; broil them slowly in a well-buttered paper, and when they are of a nice brown colour, wipe off the fat with a clean cloth, and serve with what sauce you please. Eel Sofef/.*—Cut your eels, when skinned, into pieces eight itiches long, and cook them in a ready-dressed ma- rinade ; when done, lay them on a dish, cover them with marinade, and let them stand till cold; then having beaten and seasoned four eggs, dip the pieces (cold) into it, take care that all parts are well covered; roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them. Drain, and lay them on a dish, snd serve with sauce piguante. Eels Spitohcocked.— Skin and cleanse your eel, slit open the belly, lay it flat, but do not bone it; cut it into pieces about the length of a finger, rub it well with the yolk of an egg; strew over it fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, ciiopped parsley; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, auU broil it of a nice broivn colour. Serve with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it whole, done with the above ingredients, turned round and skewered, then broiled, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Eel Spitchcocked.— Let your eel be large, split it down the back, and joint the bone, but leave on the skin, cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt; when ihey arc broiled, serve them with butter andjuice of lemon. Eel Soup.—To every pound of eels put one quart of water, a crust of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover them close, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted, and the fish is quite broken; then strain it oil and toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay it in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. A quarter of a pint of ricli cream, with a teaspoonful ot flour, robbed smooth in it, very greatly improves it.