( 176 ) COD c o i:> cod is very white, and the flakes large ; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is dressed it should he soaked in milk and water, or water alone, lor several hours ; if very dry and salt, a whole day will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out, put the fish into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling, skim it, tutd let it simmer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, and garnish your dish with parsnips or potatoes. To make the fol- lowing dishes, the fish should be pre- viously parboiled. Cod (Suit) a I’j4nglaise,*—Cut the fish in pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with melted butter, and a glass of broth maigre, cover it close, and let it stew. Melt some butter in an equal quantity of cream, add nutmeg grated, and when well mixed together, put it into your dish with the cod over it. Cod (Salt) au Beurre Roux*—Roll a piece of butter in a little flour and pow- der sugar, and brown it; do some sliced onions in this ; when tliey are a proper colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to them ; boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Gar- nisb with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) in Black Butter.*— 'BoW and drain the fish, put it on the dish for table, with half a glass of vinegar, the same of broth, and some coarse pepper, place your dish over the fire, and let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve it with black butter poured over it. Cod (Salt) a la Bonne Femme. — Is prepared in the same way as d la mntlre d'hotel, with the addition of potatoes; boil and let them stand till cold; then cut them into slices, the size and thick- ness of a half crown; do them in the sauce with the fish. Cod (Salt) d la Bordelaise.*—Take an earthen dish that will bear the fire, and put into it some olive oil, butter, a couple of anchovies, parsley, scallions, sbalots, and gar lic, all chopped small, and two or three slices of lemon ; put it on the fire, and when of a proper con- sistence, put in the fish ; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour, 'i'hen grate bread over it, brown it with the salaman- der, and serve it hot. Cod (Salt) d la Bourguignotte.*—Cut half-a-dozen large onions into rings, and colour them in some butter ; then make a rotix of butter, clarify, and put it to the onions, with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Dress yotir cod .as for maffre d’hOceU drain and dish it. Serve with the above sauce. , , , Cod (Salt) with Capers and Ancho- vies.*—Bo\\ the cod as usual, and when done, drain and dish it; pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. Cod (Salt) d la Crime.*—Soak and boil the fish as d ^ mattre d’hOlel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pepper, nutmeg and garlic; tliick en it with the yolks of three eggs, add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce ; let them boil gently a short time, and serve it quite hot. Or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it; take oll'all.the fat belore yon serve, and add mushrooms, artichoke-bottoms, and asparagus-heads. Con (Salt) Croguetlesof.*—Cut some ready dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream ; put it on the fire, let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand ; when cold divide it into fifteen or twenty heaps ; shape and bread them; break four or five eggs, season and beat them up well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just before they are wanted, fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on a bed of fried pars- ley. Cod (Salt) Fried.*—Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put it into some bechamelle, let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps, bread them, dip each heap into some well beaten eggs, bread them a second time, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with orange-juice and fried parsley. Cod (Salt) Fritters.* — Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod in a bat- ter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) d la Languedocienne.* — Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, halfa glass of sweet oil and some bread crumbled ; when sufficiently thick and well flavoured, put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour ; serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. Cod (Salt)d la Lyunuise.—Fry some onions, cut into dice, very brown in but- ter, sprinkle them witli flour, and add a little milk or cream; season it well. Cod (Salt) d la Mattre d'Hutel.*-- Soak your fish (if very salt) lor a whole day in milk and water, aftci"wards soak it in hot water, t.ake oil the scales, and put the fish into cold water on the