( 12G ) C A U C A U Ptnnt it boila, pour into it tlie flour and water, and atir it over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Caudle (Cold). — Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and one ounce of syrup of lemons. Caudle {Rice). — Mix some grated rice with a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon- peel, and cinnamon; to a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. Caudle {fVhite.)—M\x two spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon-peel ; stir it often, and let it boil full twenty minutes ; strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. CAULIFLOWERS {to Dress).— Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on ; boil them in spring water and salt; they are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water without salt. Second Way.—Blanch the cauliflowers a short time with a slice of streaky ba- con, butter and salt; when about half done, put them in a stew-pan, with a little blond, or veal gravy ; reduce the sauce, and serve very hot. Cauliflowers and. Butter.* — Pre- pare two cauliflowers, and when they are drained, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon-juice; let them lw)il a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, ana a little cream. Cauliflowers and Cheese.*—Make a saAice with cullis, a bit of butter, and pepper, but no salt. Put in a dish some grated Parmesan, or Gruyere cheese, place the cauliflower6(previouslywashed, picked and boiled) on this; pour the sauce over, and cover them with slices of Parmesan cheese, warmed, to make them adhere to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. Cauliflowers, Fried.—Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a little salt, and when three parts done, take them out, drain and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper and vinegar; beat them up in this, and then fry them in a batter made as follows: three spoonsful of flour, two eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of b.-andy. Cauliflowers Fried.*—When your cauliflowers are about three parts done. make a thick white sauce, in which toss | them up, and then let them cool; just i before wanted, dip them in batter, and i fry them in a hot pan; when of a nice | colour, serve them. They may also, | when boiled and drained, be soaked in Ij vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they I! should be tossed up, instead of the white 1: sauce, and then fried. Cauliflowers d la Genoise.*—After | the cauliflowers are boiled, and are cold, ;, sprinkle them with Gruyere and Par- t inesan cheese grated; put them in a i dish, buttered and strewed with cheese, i; Cover the cauliflowersivith a thick white |i sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Strew , bread crumbs on this, then pour butter oyer, then more bread crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tons. Cauliflowers and Grapy.*—Blanch and drain the cauliflowers, heat them up i in a little veal gravy or blond; when i done, place it on a dish, and add any | other gravy you may think proper. Be | careful not to break the cauliflower. Cauliflower Aoa/.*—Trim and par- i boil a fine cauliflower, then put it into | cold water, and drain it. Line the bot- i tom of a stewpan (of the size of the dish i you intend to use), with slices of bacon, i and place the cauliflower on them, witli i the head downwards. Make a stuffing \ with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, t scallions, mushrooms,all chopped small, i salt, pepper, and three eggs; when these 1 are well mixed together, put it into the :i open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing ' iLin with the hand ; season it well, and i stew it with some stock. When the sauce I is consumed, turn the cauliflower out ' carefully on the dish, take, away the i bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with ( a little butter, and serve. C.tuLiFLOWERS d la Magnonnaise.*— i The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and i cleared of their leaves, must be put into I boiling water, butter and salt: when i firm, take the saucepan from tlie fire, i and let the cauliflowers cool in the water. ! As soon as they are cold, drain and put ' them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mig- nonette, to soak for two hours. Dish them in the form of a pyramid, as high i as you can; mask them with a white i magnonnaise, and place round them a border of aspic jelly, cut in triangles. Cauliflowers Pickled.— Pull the largest and closest cauliflowers into sprigs; put them into an earthen dish, and sprinkle salt over them. Let them stand twenty-four hours; then put tliem into a jar, and pour salt and boiling water over them. Cover them close, and let them smnd till next day; then take them out, and lay them on a coarse