CAR CAR 117 I your finger between the skin and flesh to loosen it; grate some bacon (tlie quantity of two eggs), and add to it one truffle, one mushroom, a little parsley, and garden-basil; season these with salt, pepper, and spices, mix these all well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end ; then lard the capon with slices I of veal and ham, putting a little sweet 1 herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then I wrap it up in sheets of naper, and put it I on the spit to roast. By the time it is j roasted, have ready a ragofit of veal , sweetbreads, fat livers, mushrooms, i truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms, as- j paragus-tops in their season, which ) should be tossed up with a little melted i lard, and strengthened with a good i gravy; take off the fat, and thicken I It with a cullis of veal and ham, place [| your capon on a dish, pour your ragoClt I all over, and serve. Chickens, par- tridges, ducks, pheasants, &c., may be dressed in the same manner. I CAPSICUM Pods.—Gather the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn red; cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, but as little j of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine, for three days, changing it every day; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry; boil vine- gar enough to cover them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie a bladder and leather over them. CARAMEL Conserve.*^C\Av\iy the quantity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel; have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your su- gar to the thickness of half an inch, and jxace on its surface the forms you wish it to have; when cold, break it accord- ing to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and flavoured according to the fancy. Caramel Cover for Sweetmeats.—Dis- solve eight ounces of double-refined su- gar in three or four spoonsful of water, and threeor four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untinned skil- I let; when it boils to be thick, dip the I handle of a spoon in it, and put that into , a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar i from the spoon into it, and so on till I you have all the sugar. Take a bit out I of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle ' when cold, it is done enough; but only ' let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the sugar, and having a cop- ' per mould oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold ou may put it on the dish it is to cover; ut if, on trial, the sugar.is not brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold colour. It makes a most elegant cover. Caramel Croqi/ant.—Take a copper croquanttop, and butter it all over, then have some syrup boiling in a stewpan; let it boil till it comes to caramel, take the pan oft', dip a three-pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of the pan, and y'ou will see strings liang to the fork; move the fork backwards and for- wards over the croquant until you quite cover it thick, have your little dish of sweetmeats under, take this croquant off the mould, and when cold put it over the sweetmeats and handle it very lightly. CARDAMUM Comfits. — Procure your cardainums at the chemists, and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins, and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit-pan. and have a fire under the same as for others; mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as carrarvay comfits. Cardamom IFater. — Take pimento, carraway and coriander seeds, and lemon- peel, of each four ounces ; three gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water, distil, and sweeten it with a pound and a half of sugar. CARDOONS xeith Cheese. — String and cut them an inch long, put them into a saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pepperand salt, stew them till they are tender, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when of a proper thickness pour them into a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, and scrape over them some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and then brown them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high a co- lour. Cardoons in Cheese.*—Add to the sauce in which the cardoons are cooked, grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; and put it over them when placed in the dish \ cover them with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, pour melted butter over the whole; colour it in the oven, or with a salamander. Another wai/.~\Vhen the cardoons are boiled, put a little cullis into a dish, and lay on it as many bits of fried bread as ou have cardoons, which place on the read; pour cullis over and strew grated cheese over. Finish as above. Cardoons (to dress).—Cut them in pieces six inches long, and put them on a string; boil till tender, have ready