S P I (4 9 ) STO (SI some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and ij cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream, or yolks and whites of eggs, as will rnake it the consistence of hatter; mix in a few currants, previously scalded, and drop the batter into a frying-pan, on boiling lard ; as soon as they rise, take them out, drain, and serve them. Spinach au 3/a/gre.*—Having blanch- j ed and minced your spinach, ptit it into S| a pan, with nearly a quarter of a pound >1 of butter, salt, and pepper ; set it on the h fire, and when the spinach is fried a little. Ij add two dessert spoonsful of flour, and some milk, stir till it thickens, and then serve. j Spinach Pudding. — Pick and well 'I wash a quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender; a little ij salt should be put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered ; when boiled, put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small ; beat up six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll grated very line, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted but- ter, stir all well together, put them into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken ; then weta pudding cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange-juice and sugar mixed in it, and serve. Spi.vach Puffs.—Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder-sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, and two ounces of citron, the two latter minced ; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg ; put them all into a stewpan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar ; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each piece lay a spoonful of the .spinach, as above, turn the paste o ver,and pinch the edges round neatly, in the form of a semi-circle. These puffs may be either boiled a quarter of an hour, and served with grated bread and Parmesan cheese strewed over them, or fried in boiling lard, and sent to table with pow- der sugar over. Spinach 7'nrf.*—Take some spinach, clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty, pick and scald it, and give it a lew turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg. Mix the spinach with frangi- pane, and finish the tart like that of/ran- gipane. . . Spinach Tart. — Scald the spinach m boiling water, drain it well, and then chop it; stew it in butter and cream, with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits of dried comfitcitron, and a few drops of orange-flower water ; put it into a dish lined with tlie very bestpuH-paste. Spinach Toasts.—Boil some spinach for a quarter ol an hour ; then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoons- ful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard-boiled, and three raw eggs, two bis- cuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it a few dry currants, and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over them, to the thickness of halt an inch, wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking-tin (well buttered) and bake them for half an hour. When done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange- juice over them, and serve. SPRATS.—Sprats are chosen by the same rules as heriings.andare dressed in the same manner. (See Herrmgs.) STOCK,/or Braivn or IVhite Soups.— Take a pound of scate, five flounders, and two pounds of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them, a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs j cover close; strain it off for use ; if it is for brown soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then put it to stew. Stock (for Gravy Soup or Gravy.)— Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; put these into a stewpan, with three scraped car- rots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts of water. Let the meat stew till quite tender, butit must not be brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, it must be first coloured in the usual manner. Stock-fish d la Gascogne.*—Vwt the dried cod (alter it has been prepared, and pulled into flakes) into a stewpan, with equal quantities of sweet oil and fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt; place the stewpan on a stove, stirring constantly, until the butler and oil arc thoroughly incorporated: as soon as that is the case, it should be eaten, bc- 2R2