( G1 ) BIS B I S The method of proQjiring the juice is by borii\« holes in the body of the trees, and putting m fossets, which are com- monly made of the bi-anches of elder, the pith being taken out. Yon may, without hurting the tree, if large, tap it m several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a’ good man y trees seve- ral gallons every day; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosin- ed or waxed; however, make use of it as soon as you can. T.ake the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time ; to every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good sugar, the thin peel of a lemon, boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it very well, pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almostcold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a toast; let it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask, stop it close till the match is extinguished, tun your wine, lay the bung on light till you find it has done working; stop it close and keep it three months, then bottle it off. Birds Potted, how to preserve when they begin tngrow iarf.—When birds have come a great way they often smell so bad that they can scarcely be borne from the rankness of the butter, by managing them in the following manner they may be made as good as ever. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the fire; when it boils take oil’the butter at the top, then take the fowls out one by one, throw them into that saucepan of water half a minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth inside and out; continue till they are all done, scald the pot clean ; when the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper and salt, according to taste, put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. Bishop {Essence of) or Tincture of Allspice.—Steep three ounces (apothe- cary’s weight) of bruised allspice in a (j^uart of brandy, for a fortnight, occa- sionally shaking it up, then pour off the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. &c. Bisque.—A bisciiie is a soupinragoftt, which is made either of quails, capons, pullets, or pigeons, &c. Bisque.* —Take fifty cray-fish and wash them in eight or ten waters; and put them into a stewpan witli some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a iiuarter of a pound of butter; over a quick fire; and keep constantly stirring them with a spoon fora quarter of an hour. When your cray-fish arc done, let them drain, then take out the meat and pound it in a mortar, then put some rice into boiling water, and let it boil for a iiarter of an hour, after wliich let it rain, and then pound it in the mortar with tlie meat of the cray-fish ; wlien the whole is well pounded, put it in a stewpan with a little stock previously strained tlirougli a sieve; when this puree is done add to it a little more stock, taking care that it is neither too thick nor too clear. After you iiave prepared your cray-fish pound the shells, and when they are well pounded, add to tliem some gravy or the butter in which the cray-fish were boiled, pass tliis puree througli a sieve, and after you have strained it, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire, you must be careful not to let either of yemxpiirees boil. When the secondjaiwee is finished, and you are ready to serve, put some croutons in a tureen and pour over them some boiling stock, tlien pour in your firstptjrde, then upon this pour yexarpuree made of the pounded shells, whicli being of a red colour will give a nice tinge to the wliole. Bisque.—Take fifty cray-fisli, well wash them and pick out the meat; pound it and then put it in a stewpan with six ounces ofbutter, some salt, pepper, nut- meg, and a piece of the crumb of new bread three times tlie size of an egg; put the whole on a quick fire, and let them cook for half an hour; then strain the whole through a sieve, and wlien strain- ed put it again into a stewpan over a gentle fire, taking care not to let it boil and that yonrpuree is not too thick; then serve with bread, the same as in the pre- ceding receipt. Bisque.—Take wliat fish you please, wash and clean it, then marinate it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a liandful of salt, wliole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the peel of a lemon grated. Nearly cover the whole of your fish with tliese ingredients, and when it is marinated in them for an liour, put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and wlien it is about half boiled, add some boiling water to it, tliis will raake_ the fish very firm. Then fry tlie remainder of your fisli, make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, ca- pers, a biincli of sweet herbs, two ancho- vies, two onions, stuck with cloves, the yolksoflwo eggs, tlie juice of a lemon, nutmeg grated; andsomc scraped horse- radish ; mix all these together with two pounds of butter, and let it be very tliick; disli ^oiir fish, and pour over it tlie sauce. Garnisli your fried fisti witli parsley, liorse-radish and sliced leiaoii, serve it hot. O