( 186 ) CR A C II A simmer it to a thick sauce ; then make a to'iwnvlth tlie yolks of two eggs and broth; when ready add aspoonful of ver- juice, or lemon. COWSLIP Pudding,—Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut, and pound them small, with half a pound of Na- ples biscuits grated, and three pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off the fire, and beat up sixteen eggs with a little cream and rose-water. Sweeten to your palate. Mix it all well together ; butter a dish, and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. Note.—New milk will do when you cannot get cream. Cowslip /Fme.*—One gallon of water, three pounds of lump-sugar, one Seville orange, and one lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling, pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel, upon the pips, and about a teacupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half the number of oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peels. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. CRACKNELS.—Mix a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose- water, into a stiff'paste, with cold water; then rub in a pound of butter, and make into a cracknel shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim ; then take them out, and put them into cold water; when hardened. Jay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. Ckacknels( Small Soft)*.—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees six eggs; when thoroughly pounded, pour on them a pound of pow- der sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds_of two lemons grated; beat up these ingredients in the mortar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and having poured the almond paste on it, knead them together until they are well incor- porated ; roll it out, and cut the crack- nels into such forme as you may think proper, rub them with yolk of egg, and strew over tliem powder sugar or cinna- mon : then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, tak- ing great care that they do not burn. ■Wh en done, put them into glasses, and if preserved in a dry place they are the better for keeping. Cback-nuts. — Mix together eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of su- gar ; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make it into a paste ; add carraways, roll itoutas thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRABS.—If fresh, the joints of tlie legs will be stiff’, and the inside has an agreeable smell. When light, they are watery; therefore, always choose ihe heaviest. They are stale when the eyes look dead. Crab, to iloif.*—Choose your crab of the middling size, put it into boiling water with salt in it, keep it boiling for about three quarters of an hour; when done, wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table, the large claws should be broken off', and the shell cracked carefully, the tail cut down the middle, and body sent up whole. Crabs, irotewer/, and served in the Shell. —Leave the great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms or truffles, a little young onion ; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel; stir this about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon-juice, with some good gravy ; let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells; strev» over bread-crumbs ; brown them in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. Crabs, Buttered.—Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat it in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, a piece of butter, with a very little flour, some vinegar or lemon-juice. Crab, Farced.—Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs, shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or bar- berries, and boiled artichokes cut in dice, if in season, or asparagus boiled; some almond paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated; fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls, put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven ; when they are baked, put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and tie yolks of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beat up with thick butter; pour this on the fish, gar- nish with slices of lemon, slick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced al-