EXPLANATION OJ^ some of the Terms made use (f in the foregoing Pages. Atelets—Small silver skewers. Baba—A French sweet yeast cake. Bain-Marie—See the Dictionauv. JBmquet—A bunch of parsley and scallions tied up to put in soups, &c. Bouquet garni, or Assaisonne—'V\i& same, witli tlie addition of cloves and anraa- tic herbs. Bourguignote—A ragoCit of truffles. Braise—See Dictionary. Brioche—A French yeast rake. Buisson (en)—A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &c. Capilotade—A common hash of poultry. Civet—A hash of game or wild fowl. Compiegne—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c. &c. Co?«^ofe—A fine mixed ragofit to garnish white poultry, &c.;also a method of stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. Compotier—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. Couronne (en)—To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. Court or short (to stew)—To reduce a sauce very thick. Croustade—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, &c. Croutons—Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. Dorez—To wash pastry, Ssc. with yolk of egg well beaten. Dorure—Yolks of eggs heaien well. Entrees—Axe dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the dinner. Entremets—Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third courses. Financicre-Axx expensive, highly-flavoured, mixed ragofit. Elan—^A French custard. Glaze, (to fall to a)—To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the meat. Glaze—Is usually made from reduced consomme, or juices from the bottoms of braised white meats ; it should be preserved in jelly-pots. Glaze, Glace, or Ice—Is composed of white of egg beaten with powder-sugar. Godiveau—A common veal forcemeat. Gras (aw)—This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. Gratin—A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any other dish tliat will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it. Hors d’oeuvre—A small dish, served during the first course. Hatelets-'I'Iie same as Atelets. Lard (to) —Vo stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c.; it is done by means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, and hollow; the lardon is put into this hollow, tlie point is then inserted into the meat, and unbeing drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper place. ... - , - Lardons—The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat, &c. &c. . , . . Larding-pin—Ixn utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. Liaison—A finish with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragoflts and sauces. Madeleines—Cakes made of the same composition as pound-cakes. (aw)—Soups, &c. dressed without meat. Marinade—A prepared pickle fer meat, fish, &c.