RAT ( 435 ) REM 2 P 2 clear, bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. k.\sPBEHRV Tart. — Line your disk will) a nice puli'paste, lay in sugar and fruit, put bars across, ami bake. Raspberry Tart with Cream.—\Aw a patty-pan with tliin puH'paste,lay in some ra.«pDerries, and strew some very finely sifted sugar over them ; cover them with pafl'paste, and bake it; when done, cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which has been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweet- ened with a little sugar; when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Raspberry Wine.* — Thoroughly wash, clean, and stone, three pounds of sun raisins ; then boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour, as soon as it is taken oft'the fire, pour it into a deep stone jar, and put in the raisins, with six q^uarts of fresh raspberries, and two pounds of loaf sugar ; stir the whole well together, cover the jar closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring it twice a day ; ! then pass it through a hair sieve, put the liquor into a close vessel, adding one ' pound more of loaf sugar ; let it stand : for a day and a night to settle, after which , bottle it, adding a little more sugar. Raspberry h inegar.,Symji of.*—Take a large wide-mouthed glass bottle, pour I into it two quarts of the best vinegar, and as many picked raspberries as the ■ bottle will contain, taking care that the vinegar does come above them ; let these ! stand covered for a week. At the end of I that time, pour both vinegar and rasp- berries on a silk sieve, pressing the latter lightly, that the juice may run through 1 with the vinegar ; when perfectly clear, I weigh it, and put double its weight of ! fine sugar, crushed ; pour the vinegar I in, close the matrass, and set it in a I moderately heated bain marie-, as soon as the sugar is dissolved, let the fire go ( out gradually, and when the syrup is I cold, bottle it. The corks should be ' sealed, to exclude the air entirely. RATAFIA of Four Fruits.*—Take ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two ' pounds and a half of raspberries, five I pounds and a half of red and two pounds of blackcurrants; pick, and mix these : fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice, take half a pound of sugar, and an I equal quantity of brandy ; dissolve the sugar 111 the juice, then put in tlie brandy, a drachm of mace, and two I drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand I some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep : tliem well corked. Ratafia of Seeds.* — Take throe drachms of each of the following seeds : anise, cummin, fennel, dill, coriander, carraway, and angelica ; bruise and in- fuse them for a month, in a gallon of brandy. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water, add this syrup at the end of the above-mentioned time to the infusion ; then filter, and bottle it. Katafia, without Sugar or Syptp.*— Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour, then put it into a large bottle, with the kernels, and also some apricot kernels; to this add (if you wish the ratafia a deep colour) the juice of two or three pounds of black-cherries. Put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and when the fermentation has ceased, cork the bottles. If the air is excluded, this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE.* —Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon; this latter ought to predominate; (the mixture of these articles constitutes the ravigote) ; take sorne veloute, two des- sert spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper, make them quite hot, add a bit of butter and the ravigote', stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve. Ravigote with Oil.*—Mince the ravi- gote, and put it into a saurepan with a ladleful of cold veloute, salt, and whole pepper, stir it well to mix it thoroughly, then add two ladiesful of oil, mix that well also, then pourin fouror five dessert spoonsful of vinegar; keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fi.sh salad be ready for it to be poured on. REMOULADE.*—Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water, add to this a little shalot, and ravigote, both shred, six siioonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper ; mix them well in, and then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and con- tinue stirring until the sauce is very smooth ; it ought to be rather thick. Remoueade (frVc'Cw).*—Scald a ravi- gote well, press, and pound it, then add salt, whole pepper, a glassfull of mus- tard, pound again, mix in a glass of oil, the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and four or five dessert spoonsful of vinegar ; when all these ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated, strain the whole through a bolting like a puree; it ought to be rather thick. If not green enough, add a little spinach essence. IIemoueade, Indian.* — Pound the yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a lime, ami continue pounding all the time ; then add about a dozen allspice, a