Pis ( 411 ) Pis paste into a skillet with the yolks of nine [1 Cifgs, anti till ee quarters of a pound of i| pmvder-sugai’j s-tir it in well, and add, by ii degrees, a quart of cream, and set it on a slow lire to simmer gently, and when B sufficiently done, colour it with a little splnacN green; then strain it, and when cold, ice it in the usual^way. Pistachio Cream Patissiire*—Peel a I quarter of a pound of pistachios, wash, I and then pound them with an ounce of |( preserved cedrat, and ten bitteralmonds ; [ with this paste mix two spoonsfiils of spi- nach essence strained, six ounces of powder-sugar, four of filbert, or other macaroons, and the cream properly pre- pared (see Cream Pdiissiere)\ heat it all I' up together, and finish as directed. I Pistachio, TVhipped Cream.* — Your : cream being whipped as usual (seeTVhip- i| peJ Cream), mix with it six ounces of powder-sugar, two spoonsful of double '! rose or orange-flower water, dress your :! cream iu a pyramidal form, and having I peeled a quarter of a pound of pistachios, ii cut them in pieces, lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the surface of your pyra- : mid. ' ■ Pistachios, Fromage Bavarois of.*— |i Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, [J and being well washed and drained, |j pound them witli an ounce of preserved i| cedrat, or the rind of a lemon rasped on !) sugar, and eight bitteralmonds blanched; h wlien these are reduced to a fine paste, add to it two glasses of hot milk, and half a pound of powder-sugar; let tliis stand li for about half an hour, then strain and ' add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a I sufficient quantity of spinacli essence to I make it of a delicate green colour ; put I your preparation into a vessel set on ice, il and when it begins to tliickeiij mi.x a i' whipped cream with it and finish it. (See ; Fromage Bavarois.) Pistachios Glacees, d la Royale.*— Peel tliree ounces of pistachios, di y them I; n little at the moutli of the oven; when li cold, glaze and finish them in the same I* mannerasfilherts,andalmonds. (See the : recipes.l These however should be grouped in sixes and eights. Pistachios, Gateau of.*—Set half a pint of milk on ijie fire, and mix with it I a sufficient quantity of flour to make il tlie consistence of thick cream; when done, add to it a quarter of a pound of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, both blanched and pounded to a fine paste, a pinch of dried orange-flowers, tliree quarters of a pound of powder- sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six, and a quarter of I a pound of melted butter; stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well buttered mould ; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. Pistachio, small Gdleuu.x.* — Make three quarters of a pound of puff-paste, to whicli give ten turns, and roll it into two layers, each thirteen inches long, and eight wide, put one of these on a baking-tin (previously wetted) spread over it, of an equal thickness, a cold pis- tachio cream to within three quarters of an inch of the edges, moisten iliem, and cover the cream wiih the other layer; press the two layers together, dorez the top lightly, and with the point ol a knife mark on it seven lines, each two and a quarter inches apart; across these, mark five tines, three inches apart, wliicli will make twenty-four cakes; put it into a brisk oven, but do not glaze till the un- der side of the paste is of a clear yellow. Wlien cold, divide the cakes according to the lines, and trim them neatly. If you wish to have these gateaux still more delicate, strew over them, before they are baked, either almonds or filberts, blanched and cliopped small, and mixed with sugar and white of egg. Pistachio Ice.*—Take three pints of milk and one pint of cream, lialf a pound of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occa- sionally to prevent their oiling; when well pounded, dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing as light as possible. Pul a saucepan on the fire, in which is the cream and the rest of the milk, a pound of sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; stir tliese ingre- dients over the fire till tolerably thick ; then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. tVlien quite Cold, colourit with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Pistachio March]mne.*—V\x\. a pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, pound them, moistening with white of egg, to a very fine paste ; in tlie mean- time clarify the same quantity of sugar, boil it to petit bonle ; tlien take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, replace the pan on hot ashes, continually stirring, till the paste is of a proper consistence, then pour it on a slab well sprinkled with sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into wliatever forms your fancy may dictate. Pistachio Meringues.*—a quar- ter of a pound of pistachio nuts, three ounces of powder-sugar, and the whiles of six eggs; blanch tlie pistachios, and 2 N 2