C R A ( 187 ) C R A monds, pine-apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. Ckab jPie.—Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells, season it with salt and nutmeg, then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juiceof orange; make your pie, lay some butter in the bottom, lay in the meat with artichoke-bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs, chopped small; asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of orange and butter. When it is baked, liquor it with some of the meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream or drawn butter. CRANBERRIES {different watjs of dressing).—For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar, with the same; this way they eat well vyith bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. CaANBEBRY./e//y.—Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry-juice pressed, as directed in The different ways of dressing Cranberries; sweeten it, and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good lump, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry a7id Rice Jelly.—Boil and press the fruit, strain thejuice, and, by degrees, mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk or cream. Cranberry Tart.—This tart is made like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- berries should be used and well washed; a quarter of a pound of sugar is the pro- per quantity for a quart of cranberries; to this must be added thejuice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRAY-FISH, Bisque o/.—Take about fifty or sixty cray-fisn, stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, par- sley, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, and pep- per, for about an hour, then drain, and take them out of their shells ; and having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat with the breasts of two roast fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls, previously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and with the liquor, dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve. Boil a pint and a half of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup ; season it, and add the coral of a lobster pounded, and mi.xed with a little broth ; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done, pour it into the tureen on some previously soaked bread, and put the tails which were reserved, on the soup, and serve it Cray-fish. Broiled.*—The fish being boiled, take them out of their sliells, and soak them for a quarter of an hour in white wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley ; soak also in the same way, an equal number of fish roes; tie these, al- ternately, on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. Cray-fish Butter {Sauce of).*—Boil your cray-fish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper ; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with hmter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into abasin of cold water and let it congeal. The shells must likewise be pounded, and mix them with the rest; if they do not make it sufficiently red, add a little orcanette root. Cray-fish d la Calonne.*—Take the number of cray-fish you may want, as fresh as possible ; split each in half, and put them into a stewpan with white wine, a little oil, a sliced lemon, salt and pepper, let them stew in this till done; then dish them ; add to the liquor some blond, reduce, and strain it, and pour it over your cray-fish. Cray-fish Cheese.*—Having washed and boiled the fish, as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside. Chop up the meat that remains in the shells vvith some other fish, artichoke- bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter ; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a small cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread-crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Cray-fish Cream.—Boil apint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half; pound the carcasses of eight or more cray-fish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl’s gizzard, and boil for about aquarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. Cray-fish {Cullis of).*—Wash and boil about thirty cray-fish in plain water, then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish, and a dozen almonds. Cut a pound and a half of fillet of veal, and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan with an onion, carrots, and parsnips; do them until they are about the con- sistence of veal gravy ; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on