0;R a ( 362 ORA bit of orange-peel; vflien cold, put the cream into a tea-pot, pour it to the syrup, bolding it high; and let it be made the day before it is wanted. Okanues, to Preserve.*—Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into wa er, change it once a day for three days; then boil them till tender enongh to run a wheat straw through ; then put them into cold water till the next day ; pulp, and wipe them very dry ; have the syrup ready, boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them ■when cold ; make it the same as for cu- cumbers. Oranges Preserved Dry.*—Take some thick rinded oranges, and mark the quarters, but without actually dividing them ; then pare and throw them into cold water ; after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to lisse, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan ; the next day drain olf the syrup, and having boiled it up a few tiines, pour it again on the oranges ; the third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to la nappe, add some more clariiiedsugarand the oranges, give the whole one boil, covered ; put it aside as above; repeat this operation two more days ; on the last, increase the degree of the sugar to perle, and having added the fruit, boil three or four times; then set them in a stove fo® two days; when the oranges may be placed in boxes, which must be kept in a dry- place. Oranges Preserved {Liquid).*—Take a dozen fine oranges, pare them very carefully, tie the rindsround the oranges and put them into boiling water, in which they should remain (on the fire) for three or four hours ; when sufficiently done, a pin’s head will easily penetrate the skins; they must then be thrown into cold water; in a few minutes cut each into five or six pieces ; clarify three pounds of sugar, take out half of it, boil the remainder to lissc; add the oranges, boil them together and put them aside; drai n off, boil and replace the syrup for twelve successive days, each day adding a portion of the reserved sugar : at the end of that time the fruit may be put into pots. OuANOES to Preserve in Jelly.—Cwt a bole, about the size of a shilling, in the stalk part of the orange, and with a blunt small knife, scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rmd. '1 ie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lay for two days in spring-water, changing the water twice a day; in the last, boil them tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be co- vered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh two pounds of double-refined su- gar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to become cold; then boil the fruit in the syrap for half an hour; if not clear, repeat this daily till they are done. Another f-Vuy.—Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them -.donut break them, only press them gently with the back of a spoon; strain the water through a jelly- bag till qaite clear; then to every pint, put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of one lemon, and boil to a strong syrup ; drain off the syrup from the juice, and turn each orange with the hole upwards in the jar, pour the apple- jelly overit. The bits wfiich where cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. Orange Pudding.—Put six ounces of fresh butter, and eight ounces of lump- sugar pounded, in a mortar; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange; beat the whole well together, and, as you do it, add the whole of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; scrape a hard apple, and mix with the other ingredients; put paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it cross- bars of paste. Half an hour will be suf- ficient to bake it. Orange Pudding,NewEnglandFashinn. — Squeeze the juice of three Seville oranges on halfa pound of loaf-sugar; take the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten ; melt half a pound of butter thick : mix these well together, with four ounces of blanch- ed almonds, well pounded, w-ith a little orange flower water, the peel of one of the oranges grated ; put a thin crust at tlie bottom of the dish. OnAUQSs Pulped.— Either pare your oranges extremely thin, or rasp them: cut a hole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, more than cover them with spring-water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three limes doubled, then upon th it a trencher or cover ; let them scald gently, chang- ing the water five or six tiines in the scalding (put salt into the first water) : they must be so lender that a straw will pass thiough them; keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands; put them on cloths, the