C U L ( 202 ) CU L stewpan as much l/;an veal as will cover it au incli thick; then cover the veal with some slices of undressed bacon (gammon is the best), three onions, three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Put on the lid of the stewpan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a nice brown colour, fill the stewpan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then let it simmer for an hour; add a little water mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick; boil it,half an hour, and strain it. You may keep this cullis a week. CuLLis.*—Put some roux into a sauce- pan, and when it is warm, add some stock, and a bunch of parsley to it, stir- ring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, taking care to skim it. Strain it through a sieve, take ott'all the fat, and the scum which forms at the top, and then set it by for use. Cullis for allsorts of Butcher’s Meat. —You must take meat according to the number of guests; if ten or twelve, a leg of veal and a ham will be necessary, with all the fat, skin, and outside cut ott'. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick, each way, place them in a stewpan, and then tlie slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two; cover it close, let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown, take off the c>,)ver and turn it, to colour on all sides the same; but take care not to burn tfie meat. When it has a pretty brown co- lour, moisten your cullis with broth made of beef, or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic; pare a lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms. Put into a stewpan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire; put into it two or three hands- ful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take a colour; if the cullis be pretty brown, you must put in some flour. The flour being brown with the cullis, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle, then let the cullis stew softly, and skim off all the fat, put in two glasses of Cham- pagne, or other white wine; but take care to keen the cullis very thin, so that you may take the fat well ofl'. and cla- rify it. To clarify it, you rnust put it into close until take ofT the fat that is round the stew- pan ; then wipe it oir the cover also, ami cover it again. Wheti the cullis is done, take out the meat and strain the cullis a stove tnat oraws well, cover it , and let it boil without uncovering, it boils over; tlien uncover it ami tlirough a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts of ragoflts; fowls, pies, and tureens. Cullis (a Family one).— Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stew- pan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour. 'Then put in some thin broth: a little gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire, then skim all the fat clean off, and strain it through a sieve. Cullis of Fish.—Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done, then take oft’the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste, in a mortar, and then add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well with the butter, then put in the fish, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots. Set pti a stewpan, and put into it a piece of but- ter to brown, and put in the roots to boil. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moisten them. When it has boiled a few minutes, strain it into another saucepan, and then put in a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, and truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When it has slewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fish, &c. from tlie mor- tar. Let the whole stew some time.loiiger, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done, strain it through a coarse sieve. Cullis, the Italian /Fay.—Put into a stewpan half a ladlelul of cullis, a-s much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of gar- lic, a little beaten coriander seed with a lemon pared and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire, let it stew a quarter of au liour, take the fat well off; let it be of a good taste, and it may be used with all sorts of me.at and fish, particularly witli glazed fish. This sauce will also serve for two chickens, six pigeons, quails nr ducklings, and all sorts of lame and wild fowl. Cullis for all Sorts of Ragoiits.—H.av- ingcut three pounds of lean veal, and hnlfa pound of ham into slices, lay it in tlie bottom of a stewpan. put in carrot*, and parsnips, ami an onion sliced ; cover it, and set it stewing over a stove; when it has a good colour, and begins to stick, put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour, keep it nioving a little while, until tlie flour is fried; then