CE D 127 ) C E D cloth to drain. Put them into glass jars, witu a nutmeg sliced, and some mace in each. Cover them witli distilled vine- gar, and secure them from the air. They will be fit to cat in a montli. Another IVay.*^C.\\X. the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a oiiarter of an hour; then lay them on cloths to dr.ain. Put them in a jar with cloves and salt, and cover them with tlie best vinegar. CaoLiFLOWERS, Potuge of.* — Take two cauliflowers, boil, and then drain them, pressing them a little: then thicken a little bechamel maigre with the yolks of six eggs, and add a quarter of a pound of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; put in the cauliflowers; and when cold, divide them into pieces about the. size of a pigeon’s egg; roll them in flour, and fry them in clarified butter: drain, and put them in your soup tureen, and pour over them some rich consomme. Serve it with grated cheese in a separate dish. Cauliflowers {PagmU of).—Pull two small, or one large cauliflower into pieces, and stew them in a rich brown cullis, seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a dish, and pour the cullis over them. Garnish with sprigs of cauliflower, boiled very white. Cauliflower.s cl la Reine.—Make a sauce with a little ham and fillet of veal cut in dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shalot.s, and a clove of garlic: let it stew over the fire a little while, then add a few spoonsful of jelly-broth, and half a pint of cream ; reduce it to a good thick- ness, strain part of it into your dish, and place the cauliflower (properly prepared), therein; pour the remaining sauce over that: garnish with bread crumbs, and small bits of butter, and brown it in the oven. Cauliflowers in Salad.* — When you have prepared and boiled the cauli- flowers, drain and let them cool; cut them in pieces; season them with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar, and eat them as any other salad, CECILS. — Mix over the fire for a few minutes the following ingredients: minced meat of whatever kind you please, bread crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon- peel, nutmeg, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, a little butter, and some anchovies. When nearly cold, roll them up into balls about the size of an egg ; moisten them with egg; strew bread crumbs over tliem, and fry them of a good clear colour: serve ihem with made gravy. CEDRATS, Blancmange of. *—Grate tlie rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar have been used; blanch and pound a pound of sweet almonds, moistening them with water; when perfectly smooth, dilute them with five, glasses of water put in by degrees; then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing it, express the milk of almohds from them; divide this into two equal parts, with one of which mix the six ounces of sugar with the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon aa both are dissolved, strain them, and put in each half an ounce of isinglass: your mould being placed in ice, pour into it the white blancmange to three quarters of an inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour in an equal quantity of the other, which ought to be of a clear yel- low ; when that also is set, pour in some white, and so on alternately, till the mould is full. Turn out the blanc- mange as directed in Blancmange d la FranQoise. Blancmanges of the zestes of oranges, lemons, &c. are made in thi.s manner. Cedrat (Cmiscrve of).—Prepare half a pound of sugar to the ninth degree; put about an ounce of grated cedrat to it, and mix it; when the sugar is half cold, add a little lemon-juice, mix it well with a wooden spoon ; warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose; when It is cool, cut it in cakes of what size you please. Cedrat, Conserve of.*—Rub the rind of a fine sound cedrat on a piece of lump- sugar, scraping it as ynu proceed : dis- solve this sugar in lemon-juice. Boil sugar (a pound for each cedrat), to fort perle, then put in the cedrat and lemon, and proceed in the usual way. If you have not fresh cedrat, the preserved cedrat must be used as follows: pound half or a quarter of one of these fruits, pound and pass it through a sieve, and mix it with sugar boiled as above, and lemon-juice. Cedrat (Conserve of).*—Grate the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice is ready to ooze out; this must be done by rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, (about a pound) ; remove the sur- face of this sugar to which the grated rind adheres, with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice of the cedrat. Dis- solve tlie remainder of the sugar to the degree giwide plume, then take it from the fire, and when it has stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stirring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice forms on the top; you may then pour your conserve into moulds. Be careful not to put it in too hot. Cedrat Cream au Bain Marie.*—Rasp