APR APR (25 thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weiglit in sugar,finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat; when the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish, out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them until they have absorbed all the syrup, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once, daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank up by them. Apricots (green) Compote of*—Green apricots are done exactly the same as green almonds. See Almonds. Apricots, Compote of.*—Peel, cut, and I take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and ' when they rise they are sufficiently done, and maybe takeiiout,cooled,and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar and give them three or four boilings ; skim them well, and then put your fruit aside; boil the sugar alone four or five I times more, and pour it over the apricots. When cold place them in the eompotier. Apricots, /A7io/e.®—Choose the finest yellow, but not too ripe, apricots ; take I off the stalks, prick them on each side with a pin, make an incision with the ! point of a knife, through which extract I the stone. Then put them on the fire I with as much water as will cover them, i: until near boiling, wheiij if soft, the apri- i: cots should be thrown into cold water; .1 take care they are all equally tender. J1 Drain them on a hurdle, and in the mean 1! lime clarify and boil some sugar to the h deCTee you require ; put in alittle water, |; ana when it boilsremove itfrom the fire, and add to it the fruit, and having given ii them a few boilings together, let them f cool, then drain and place them in your ! aympotiers. Apricots (Conserve o/).*—Take half ripe apricots, peel and cut them into ; thin slices, dry them over a gentle fire ; : to four ounces of fruit put one pound of ! sugar, boiled to the degree of la plume forte; when the sugar is nearly cold put in the fruit, taking care to stir it well ^ with a spoon, that they may be well incor- I porated. Apricot Creani,& la Fran false.*—Cut intopieces fifteenfine ripeapricots,choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in ' four ounces of clarified sugar. When re- duced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil four glasses of 1 milk with six ounces of sugar and one grain, of salt, and mix it by degrees with I the yolks of eight eggs,constnntly stirring It with a wooden spoon, then cream it over a moderate fire; after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add six drachms of isinglass ; as soon as it is cool, pour itgently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually, until the whole is well mixed together, then pour it in a mould (which should be previously rubbed with oil of sweet almonds), then surround the mould with ice; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a sauce- pan. After your cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantages arising from rubbing the moulds with oil of sweet almonds, is preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long opera- tion. Cream with Plum de reine-chaude is made in the same manner as the above ; the proper quantity of plums to make use of are four-and-twenty, and they should be very ripe. Plums de miralelle are done in the same way, and the same number (twenty-four) made use of. Avricot Custard,glazed.*—Cut twenty- fine apricots in halt, lake out the stones; toss up twelve apricots in four ounces of powder sugar, and place them in a cream according to the directions for apple cus- tard ; bake and glaze as therein directed- Put a glass of water and a quarter of a pound qf powder sugar with the rest of the fruit into a preserving pan ; when the syrup is properly reduced, take the skin from the apricots and arrange them in the custard ; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and when ready to serve, pour the syrup on it. Serve hot or cold- Apricots, Fanchonettes o/.*—Make your fanchonettes (see that Article) as usual, and garnish them lightly with apricot marmalade; and when baked and cold fill them with this marmalade, and finish as there directed. Apricots, Flan Parisien.*—Take five dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, with half a pound of sugar and four glasses of water ; as soon as you find the peel will come off easily, take them out and drain them, and put fresh apri- cots into the syrup, and proceed the same until all are peeled, then reduce the syrup to the usual consistence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound of blitter, the same of sugar, on which grate the zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and three quar- ters of a pound of raisins, into a sauce- pan, and when it boils take it from the fire, and put it on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix the yolks of ten eggs with it.