T U R ( 475 ) T U R the bottom ; place tlie sweetbreads, &o. over all the rest, and serve. TURKIES.—A yoimg turkey-cock has smooth black legs, with a short spur, the eyes full and bright, and the feet soft and pliable. An old hen turkey’s legs are rough and red, the vent hard : if with egg, the vent will be soft and open ; the hen turkey is the best for boiling. Turkies are trussed according to the same manner as directed for fowls, and putsome goodstuflingfthesameasfor fillet of veal), in the part from which the crop was taken,vvhetherroasted or boiled. Turksv, Ateletsof.*—Take the breast of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square, cut some truffles, and boilet^streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champig- nons also, and put them with the above into an atelet sauce; when they have thoroughly imbibed it, put them alter- nately on half a dozen silver skewers, dip them in beaten eggs, cover them with bread-crumbs, egg, and bread them a second time, and then fry them. Turkey, Boiled.—Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready some oyster sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, and serve over the luikey, or you may serve over it a liver and lemon-sauce. Turkey, Boiled au Bourgeois.—Truss the turkey the same as for boiling ; put some water into a saucepan, set it on the lire, put in some salt, a large handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns | as soon as the water boils, put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so ; in the meanwhile set on a saucepan with a bit of butler rolled in flour, a little water, some parsley, cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two anchovies, a little lemon- peel, cut into dice, a little lemon-juice, and somesalt; let these all stew together, then thicken it, and serve it over the. turkey. Turkey, Blanquette of.* — Cut the white meat from a cold roasted turkey, mince it small, and put it into a stewpan; cut as many champignons as you think proper, in pieces the size of a farthing, put them into water and lemon-juice to keep them white; put a little butter into a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when the butter is melted, add six ladicsful of consomme, and the same of veloute; reduce this to half, skim and take off all the fatj then pour the sauce pn the mince, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and an ounce of butter,and serve it. Turkey, Capilotade, Croquettes, and (fuenelles —Are made in the same man- ner as those of fowls. Turkey, Cold {how to serve).— Lay your turkey in a dish, have some nice savory jelly, which cut into pieces and garnish the dish all round with it. Turkey Daube.*—Take an old turkey, truss it in the usual way; roll some large lardons in a mixture of salt,, pepper, four spices, and sweet herbs, and then lard the turkey with them; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, with two small knuckles of veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, six onions, three cloves, two bay-leaves, thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions ; cover the whole with bacon and a piece of buttered paper ; dilute it with four ladiesful of stock (or more if the turkey be very large), put in a little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly for three hours and .a half; then take it off, but do not take the bird out for at least half an hour. Strain oft'the liquor, and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if very thin; break an egg into another saucepan, beat it up well, -and then pour the liquor on it, whisk them well toge- ther, and if* it wants flavour, add a few sweet herbs, parsley-leaves, and a young onion or two; put it on the fire, stirring it violently until ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up once or twice; set it by the side of a stove, put fire on the top of the saucepan, and let it simmer half an hour; then strain it carefully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it with the turkey. Turkey, Fotmr.*—Take a fine plump turkey, bone it carefully through the back without injuring the skin. I'ake two slices of very white tender veal, lard these slices quite through with large lardons, and put them within the turkey; lard also the insi-de of the bird, but do not pierce the skin ; close the opening, and give the bird an oval form, the pinion bones, and drumsticksought to be left on ; tie up the turkey, spit and roast it gently, basting with its own gravy. Turkey, Galantine 0/.*—Take a fine fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning with the back, and taking great care not to injure the breast, remove all the si- news from tlie legs; cut away the meat from the thickest parts, so as to make it all nearly the same level; take some of this meat, cold chicken, or meat of any kind you please ; if you have two pounds