C RE C R E ( 191 ) mission, turning it to the sides of the dish, till very little or none remains at the bottom, and that a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready, heat the fire-shovel red hot, and give it a fine colour; and with the point of a knife loosen the whole border, that it may re- main entire. Then let it be put again into the same dish, and let it be dried in the oven, that very little may be left in the dish, and it will crackle in the mouth. Cream Croquante*—Take a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, four pounded macaroons; boil these until re- duced to half; then add two ounces of powder-sugar; put into another sauce- pan the yolks of eight eggs, on which, pour the cream, a little at a time; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking tin, keeping it about the_ thick- ness of a crown piece; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done, cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper; lay them on a dish, and put them in the oven till they crisp. Serve either hot or cold. Cream (Snow). — Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon- peel ; whip it to a froth; remove the peel, and serve ip a dish. CREAM(C?<rrf).—Take apintof cream; boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rose-water, to make it sweet; when it is as cold as new milk, put in about half a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds, serve it in a cream dish. Cream Custard.—Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, and the yolks of a dozen eggs; put to them as much sugar as you please, then let it thicken over the fire ; make the custards shallow, an d when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven, j grate some loaf-sugar over them, and I serve, ' Cn.EAii(Devons/nre, or Scalded).—If in I the winter, the milk should stand for I four and twenty hours, but, if in the I summer, it should stand only for twelve; I then the milk pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided you have one, if ' not, it should be placed in a wide brass 1 kettle of water, large enough to receive ' the pan. It must remain on the fire till fpiite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skim instead ef cream upon the milk. You will know when done enough, by the undulations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan tire size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream, de- pends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better. Re- move the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. Cream d I’Eau.*—Beat four eggs with a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, shred small, the juice of the same, and a quar- ter of a pound of powder-sugar. When well beaten, pass it two or three times through a napkin ; then put it in a dish, over a gentle hre, stirring till if, thickens; dish it hot, but it must be served cold. Cream (an excellent).—Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon-juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste ; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the length of a finger, and about two thick; over which should be_ strewed sugar, or a little glaze, with isinglass. The edges of the dish maybe lined with macaroons. Cream of Flowers. * — Take roses, violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange- flowers; pound them, adding a little warm milk: press them in a clean cloth, and mix them with a pint of well-boiled cream; add the yolks of six eggs, and sugar; strain, and put it into a dish; then place the dish on hot ashes ; cover and lay more coals on the top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set to cool. Cream Franqaise au Caramel Anise.* —Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel height, and when taken from the fire, mix with it two drachma of green, and two of starred anise. When cold, dis- solve it with a glass of boiling water ; add gradually the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four glasses of nearly boiling milk, and a grain of salt. The cream is then made according ro the directions for Cacao Cream a la hranqaise. Cream Franqai.se ait Marasquin.*— Bod four glasses of milk, and tlien mix It l»y degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a sauce- pan over a moderate fire, stirring con- stantly ; when it begins to simmer, strain It; add six drachms of isinglass to it: as soon as it is cold, put in half a glass of