C A K ( 99 ) C A K ! of flour, to half n pound of fresh butter, broke into email pieces, and likewise a I (juarter of a pound of sifted aujjar, and i half a grated nutmeg; make a hole in the : centre of the flour, and set a sponge with a gill of yeast, and a little milk; when well risen, add slices of candied orange or lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up. Mix all well together, with a little warm milk, of a proper stiffness, mould it into a cake, prove it in a warm place, and bake it. .n , ,, Cake (a Rich Seed one).—Take five ! pounds of fine flour, well dried, and four 1 pounds of single refined sugai^ beat and ; sifted ; mix these together, and sift them 1 through an hair sieve; then wash four j pounds of butler in eight spoonsful of '? rose or orange-flower water, and wash the ij butter with your hands till it is like s cream; beat twenty yolks and ten whites i) of eggs, and put to them six spoonsful of n sack; put in the flour a little at a time, >! and keep stirring it with your hand all !> the time ; you must not begin mixing it I till the oven is almost hot, and after it is d mixed let it stand some time before you j put it into the hoop; when you are ready I to put it in the oven, put to it eight -■ ounces of candied orange-peel sliced, d with as much citron, and a pound and a ; half of carraway comfits, mix them well, 1 and put it into the hoop: it must be a 3 quick oven, and two or three hours will ( be sufficient to bake the cake; after if which you may ice. it if you please. M Cakb (a small Rich Seed).—Break a fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whisk ;6 them ten minutes; then take one pound if of butter, and rub it well with your hand I to a cream ; put one pound of powdered sugar to the eggs, and whisk them over t the fire three minutes, then whisk them f till they are cold, afterwards mix them b with the butter with your hand as light j as you can ; put two or three handsful of 1 carr.iway seeds in, and some sweet al- 9 monds cut; and a little cinnamon and • mace ; mix one pound and a quarter of SR flour, as light as you can with your hand; tl put three papers inside your hoop, and W four or five at bottom, ariii let your oven ih be rather brisk; when you find your K cake has risen, and the oven loo hot at M the top, cover it with a sheet of paper, and it will be done in about an hour and a half, or two hours at farthest. Cake (Seed Common).* —One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, aquarterof a pound of sugar, a few carra- ways, a pint of milk, a spoonful of yeast, mixed well together; let it stand a long time before the fire, then put it in the oven. Cake (a Pound Seed).—Take a pound of flour, one pound of fine powder sugar, one pound of butter, eight yolks, and four whites of eggs, as much carraway seeds as you like j first beat up the but- ter to a cream with your hantls, beating it one way lest it oil; then by degrees beat in your eggs, sugar, and flour, till it goes into the oven; bake it in a quick oven, and it will take an hour and a quarter baking. Cakes (Shretrsbury). — Having beat half a pound of butter to a cream, put in half a pound of flour, an egg, six ounces of loaf sugar, beaten and sifted, half an ounce of carraway seeds, mixed into a paste, and roil them in. Cut them round with little tins, or a small glass, prick them, lay them on sheets of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Take a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then take one pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and mace pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together; beat them with your hand till it is very light; then take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it together, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, only very flat, let your oven be rather slow, and let them change their colour, then take them out. Cakes (Small).— Rub well together half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, then wet it with a gill of boiling milk, strew in a few carra- way seeds, and let it lie till the next day; when moulded, and cut into six score pieces, roll them as thin as possible, and bake them in an oven three parts cold. CAKEa(Spa?iish).*—One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of eggs, leaving out one third of the whites put them into moulds, and bake them in a slow oven. Cake (Spowg-e).—Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with tlie flour, and the whites alone, to a very still froth: then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingre- dients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Cakes (Twelfth).—Make a cavity in the centre of six pounds of flour, set a sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little w.irm milk; put round it a pound of fresh butter, in small lumps, a pound and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, mace, and nutmeg mixed, and sliced candied orange and lemon-peel, and citron. When K2