C 110 C RO ( 198 ) a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in the vvliites of four eirgs, whipped firm, and work the whole togetlier for some minutes. Heat two large baking-plates of cop- per, rub them over lightly with virgin wax; when they are cold, take a spoon- ful of the preparation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon-biscuits, taking care to lay them three quarters of an inch apart; when both plates are full, place them on stools, in the oven or stove; close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible; let them remain in this state all night; the next morning put them into a mo- derate oven, and bake them fifteen cr twenty minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. The croquettes may be flavoured ac- cording to your fancy. CROQUIGNOLES a la Chartres*— Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet, and three of bitter almonds, with a little white of egg; put half a pound of flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, in vvhich pul the almonds, with half a pound of powder sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your Anger; cut them into souare pieces, the bigness of a filbert, and roll tltem into little balls: place them on baking-plates, rubbed with wax ; dorez and bake them in a moderate oven: re- move them from the plates whilst hot, as, if sutt'ered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. Cuoouignoles d la Franqaise.* — Break up half a pound of bitter maca- roons, so small as to be able to silt them; and having laid half a pound of sifted flour on your slab, and made a hole in the middle, put in the macaroons, with six ounces of powder-sugar, three yolks of eggs, three ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles of the shape and size of olives ; dorez them lightly, and bake theiii in a gentle oven. These must be of a lighter colour than other croquigiioles. Instead of macaroons use any other in- gredients you please. CnocuioNOLES d'Office.* — Put into a pan half a pound of flour, a pound of powder-sugar, a little crisped orange- flower in powder, a bit of butter, about as big as a nut, and a little salt; moisten it with the whites of eggs ; your prepara- tion should be pretty firm ; put it into a sort of funnel, butter some baking-tins. and push the irroquignoles through in the form of buttons, cutting the paste with a knife dipped in white of egg; bake them in a moderate oven. Ckoquionolks uux iVu/b.es.*—Make a iiaste like Croquignoles a la Chartres, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, tind cut it into two equal parts, on one of which lay pralines, leaving proper spaces between each; moisten the other part lightly, and lay it over the pralines; press it down a little, and with an ova! paste-cutter, an inch and a half in length, and one inch in width, cutout thecr&y«/g-«ofef; press the edges together, and finish as Cro- quignoles a la Chartres. CnoQuiGXOLESfl la Heine,*—Are made in the same way as Croquettes a la Pa- risienne; but, instead of laying them like spoon biscuits, they should be formed into balls about the size of a fil- bert. CROUSTADE.*—Takealoaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb round, to the size you may re- quire, and about four inches in height; form it to the shape of a cup or basin, aad cutting the outside according to your taste, put it into a pan with a pro- per quantity of butter, and brown it; when of a good colour, and very dry, drain and take out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may requre. CaousTADE {Small) a la Btchamelle.* Line the number of custard moulds you may require, with a rich puti-paste, ad- ding a small quantity of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, and bake them in a brisk oven of a light- ish red colour. In the meanwhile cut some breast of fowl into small pieces, three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wide, also cut some very black truffles, or champignon.s, into pieces the same size, flavoured with Cichamelle; place these in the 6am-marie, and when wanted, put some of this into each croustade, pour in a little bcchamelle, cover them and serve. Observe that the croustades must he opened the moment they aie taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. Croustades (Small) de Nouilic.* — Mix some paste d A’ot/i//e,with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufflciently rolled out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water j let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pinind of but- ter, and a little salt; in a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness. »V hen cold, turn it on the slab, and cut out