( 172 ) CLO CLA Clary Fritters.—Beat up three egpps wiUi a spoonful and a Imlf of cream, then add a little ratafia, three spoonsful of flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. Wash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Garnish with Seville orange, and serve with melted butter. Clauy Pancakes.—Make a batter with three eggs, three spoonsfuls of flour, a pint of milic, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; and on that a few well washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them. CcAnv {Spirit of).—Take a quart of tlie juice of clary, clary flowers, clove- gilly-flowers, archangel-flowers, flowers of lilly of the valley, andcomfrey flowers, of each two pounds; put these into two gallons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still, with a very gentle fire ; let the still be very well pasted to keep in the spirits ; put sifted sugar-candy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. Clary f-Vater.—Put two quarts of fresh clary-flowers with a quart of bur- rage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire ; when it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quan- tity of fresh flowers ; in another hour take these out, and throw in fresh, and so on for seven hours ; then add a gal- lon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, and sweeten it with two pounds of white sugar-candy pounded, distil it, and if necessary add more sugar-candy. Clary fVine. — Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eggs, for half an hour, skimming it carefully; then pour this whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh clary-flowers, with the peels of the lemons used above, and stir it well; add a very thin and dry toast, covered with yeast. When it has work- ed two or three days add to it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhen- ish wine. Squeeze the clary through a cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel bag in a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite dose. The wine may be bottled in three months. Another way.—To fifteen gallons of water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, and having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to a quarter of a pint of yeast, add a little more by de- grees, and let it stand an hour. Then put both together, and pour it on twelve quarts of clary-flowers, and let it work; as soon as it has done, bung it up (or four months. Draw it oft', and add a gallon of brandy; stop it close for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. CLOVE (Essence of). — Infuse a drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary’s measure. Cloves (Oil o/).*—This is made in the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quan- tities are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dissolved in four pints of water. Clove Pastils.—Are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. Cloves (Uantzic liatajia).*— 'I'ake three quarters of an ounce of cloves, and the same of cinnamon, broken in small pieces, and put them into half a pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify two pounds of double refined sugar in a bottle of water ; boil it to sovffle, and then add to it four bottles of the best red Bordeaux; strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, lie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold, take out the hag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly; taste it frequently, and when sufficiently strong of the spirit, cease pouring. It may be bottled im- mediately, cork it tight, tie the corks down and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept, the better it w'lll be. Cloves (Syrup o/).—Put a quarter of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling w’ater into a stewpan, cover it close, and boil them gently for half an hour; drain the cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs in a little cold water, add them to the I above, and simmer the whole till it be- i comes a strong syrup. When cold, bottle 1 it. Cloves (Tincture o/).—Steep three I ounces, apothecary’s weight, ol bruised I cloves in a quart of brandy for ten da\-s, and then strain it through a flannel bag. i Clove !Voter.*—Bruise an ounce of cloves, and put them into a quart of brandy, and distil it. Dis.solve a pound and a lialf of sugar in a pint oi clear water, tind add it to the distilled mixture, stir them well together, filter, and bottle it. CiA)VE /F«frr.—Mix 8 little cinnamon with the doves, or the scent will he too strong; allow half a score of cloves.to a