LAM LAM ( 306 ) onions, and a blade of mace. Stir in a bit of butter, with some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eisgs beaten in cream, with a little minc- ed parsley and grated nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus tops, and add them to the other things. It must not boil after the cream is put in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be very careful that it does not curdle. Add some lemon or orange-juice, then serve. You may if you choose, add young pease or French beans, boiled of a beautiful colour. Lamb Sweetbreads {Hot Pie of)*— Take eight Iamb sweetbreads, soak out all the blood, and cut them into small thin pieces ; trim them all to the same size and shape. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mush- rooms, four of truffles, and one shalot, all minced small, salt.nutmegand spice ; ut the sweetbreads into this, (when the utter is melted), and simmer them twenty minutes over a moderate fire, turning them frequently, that both sides may be equally done. Make a good raised crust, at the bottom and round the sides of which put some good farce or godiveau; lay the sweetbreads cold on this; pour the herbs, &c., they were cooked in over them, with two bay- leaves, and some slices of bacon. Lay the top crust on the pie, and having ornamented it, dm-ez, and put it in a brisk oven ; as soon as the top is of a light colour, cut round the edge, and cover it with a large piece of paper folded four times. An hour and a half will be sufficient to bake it, then take off the lid, the bay-leaves and bacon ; drain away the fat, and pour in some espagnole and truffles. Lamb’s Thf/s.—Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil. Fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, garnished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Tendons loith Asparagus.*— Take two breasts of Iamb, braise them, and when done, lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top; as soon as they are cold, cut them in pieces, leav- ing on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a tossing-pan, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of consomme ; simmer them till they are completely covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle of asparagus, choose the most ten- der heads; boil them in the usual way, in salt and water, for about ten minutes ; skim, and when done, drain them on a sieve; then fry them lightly in a little butter, allcinande, and a small quantity of sugar; dish the tendons ew couri/nne, with the asparagus heads in the centre; glaze and serve them. Lamb Throats (Coquilles o/).*—Soak some lamb’s throat sweetbreads, the same as those of a calf; put them into a stewpan, with a little butter and lemon- juice; blanch, and let them stand ; when cold, cut them in thin slices as for llan- qiieites,a.A&some mushrooms and truffles, also sliced. Boil a piece of glaze, about the size of a walnut, with a little alle- mande and a spoonful of consomme ; mix the whole together, add a small quantity of butter, and some lemon-juice; put this preparation into scollop shells, strew bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; put a small piece of butter on each, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve them hot. Lamb’s Tongpces*—Are [dressed in the same manner as sheep’s tongues; they are considered as a greater delicacy. Lambu la Villeroy.*—Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes to keep them flat whilst cooling. As soon as they are quite cold, cut each breast into five pieces; take off all the skin and trim them, soak them in some allemande; let them get quite cold again, and then bread them; dip them in an omelet; bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Place them on your dish, en couroime, with a clear aspic. LAMPREYS.— Lampreys resemble eels; there are river and sea lampreys; they must be scaled in the same manner as tench, and cut into pieces; then floured and fried. They may also be broiled and served with capers; or if you serve them as a side-dish, mix some oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard, together over the fire; and serve it as sauce for the lampreys. Lampreys may also be stewed like carp, and served, en matelotte, as a side-dish. Lamprey.*—The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish; they are seldom to be had in London, and are not very plenty in any part of England. They should be chosen fat, and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. Lampreys, Broiled.—tVash them very clean in warm water; cut them into pieces; melt some butter,and roll them m it; make a seasoning with bread- cruniDS grated, some pepper, salt, nut- meg, and sweet herbs chopped very fine ; after the fish has been well rubbed in the butter, dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire.