( 107 ) CAL CAL Simmer tlie whole. Beut the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and niaee, some parsley shred, and an egg; fry tliis in little cakes of a fine gold colour; dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and Iry the same way, also some good forcemeat-balls, and garnish the dish with them. Calf’s Head d la Sainte Menehoutt*— Take out the jaws, and cut off the snout close to the eyes; put it in a stewpan over the fire, and when you have skim- med it quite clean, add to it parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, salt and pepper. When done, take out the bones that are over the brains, place it on a dish, with the following sauce: mix a piece of butter the size of an egg, with some flour, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of stock; thicken these over the fire. When this is done, pour it on the head, cover it with bread crumbs, baste it with butter; brown it with a Salamander ; drain the fat from it, and serve with sauce pi- guante. Calf’s Head Pie.—Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a little isinglass, or a calf’s foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt and pepper, in three pints of water: keep this, when very good, to put in the pie. Half boil a head, and cut it into square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, cut in half, then ham, and so on, till the dish be full; the pieces must not be too close : season to your taste, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the above- mentioned broth, and cover it with crust; bake it in a slow oven ; and when done, pour into it as much broth as it will pos- sibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. /This pie may be eaten hot, if seasoned high, and with the addition of mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. Calf's Head d la Poivrade.—Bone a scalded head as far as the eyes, and boil it with some pickled pork, both of which, when done, must be served in the same dish: boil half a glass of vinegar, the same of stock, chopped shaiots, and whole onions; strain it, and add pepper and salt; pour this over the head, and serve with sauce a la poivrade. Calf’s Head d la Paulette.*—Toss up some sweet herbs in a little butter, then add to them a little stock, salt, and pep- per; boil these a quarter of an hour: having cut a calf’s head in pieces, as for frying; put them into the sauce, and boil them slowly, till hot; just before serv- mg, putin two or three eggs, and stir it till thick i be careful not to let it boil, ] after the eggs are added. Serve with a little lemon-juice or vinegar. Calf’s Head an Putts Certain.*—Take I the meat from a calf’s head, leaving on the eyes and the brains; soak it well; take off the end of the snout, the cheek-bones, and tliose of the tongue; put the head into cold water; and when it has boiled once,hake it offi drain, and cool it. Cut the meat into round pieces, the size of a crown piece, (leave the tongue and ears whole), rub each bit with lemon, and boil them in a blanc, wrap the bones in a cloth, and_ put that in also; in proper time take it out, drain and lay it on a plate: open the head, clean the brain, and fill it with some quenelles of veal, mixed with mushrooms, sweetbreads and truffles, cut in dice ; arrange this stuffing so as to make the head its original form ; wrap it in a pig’s caul, and bake it. VVhen done, place it in the middle of a dish, with the ears and pieces of tongue round. Serve it with a good financiire, with Cray fish, and pimento butter. CA\.T’sHead Roasted.—Cleanse thehead well; bone, and dry it. Make a season- ing of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nutmeg, cloves, some fat bacon, cut very small, and grated ; strew it over the head, rol 1 it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour; you may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. Calf’s Head roasted with Oysters — Prepare a head as for boiling; take out the tonirue and brains, parboil them ; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet or marrow, a few oysters, four or five egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread; parboil and dry the head; fill the skull and moutii with the above ingre- dients, and oysters, tie it up, and roast it; preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and , sweet herbs minced, over a chafing dish ; , add butter, lemon-juice and salt, beat it up thick ; dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. Calf’s Head Soused.—Scald and bone f ® head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, changing the water twice ; dry It well. Season with salt and bruised ."P, bind it very tight, and boil It in white wine, salt and water; when done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either ' whole, or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Calf’s Head Stewed.*—Wash a calf’s head perfectly clean for an hour, in water, and then bone it with the greatest care;