( 314 LEM LEM Lemon Peel Syrup o/.* —Take five oimcea of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a glass cucurbite, which has been gradu- ally heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly boiling water; close the vessel very tight, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours; after which, let the in- fusion run out gently without pressing the peel; add two pounds of powder sugar, and then boil the whole to grand perle, when about half cold, put in a few drops of spirit of lemon. Lemon Petils Souffles o/.*—Put half a pound of sifted sugar into a pan, and mix it with the white of an egg; rasp the rind of a fine sound lemon on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and add it to the above; when it has become a pretty firm paste, roll it out, sprinkle fine sugar over, and cut it into bands about an inch wide ; cut these again into squares, which roll in the hollow of your hands, wet- ting them slightly for that purpose ; the sniffles being formed, put each in a small round case, rather more than an inch in diameter, and about four in height; when all is done, dip the end of your fore finger in water, and press it lightly on the top of each souffle; put them into a gentle oven, for about a quarter of an hour, by which time they will have risen considerably above the case; if the sur- face be well dried, take them out, but if not, let them remain a few minutes longer. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large doves of garlic, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of cayenne, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar, put it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on a hot- hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered.' Put it into small bottles. Lemon to Pickle.*—Take twelve le- mons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel ; then rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days ; then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it well, and let it lay in salt for three days ; parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salt- ed, for three days. A small handful of mustard-seed bruised, some cayenne pep- per, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon ; take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop tliem up close, and in a month’s time they will he fit for use LfMONS to P/cA-fe.—They should be small, and with thick rinds; rub them with pieces of flannel, then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits witli salt, hard pressed in, set them upright in a par. for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until lender; make a sufficient quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape- vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger ; boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl, or small deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange- peel ; take out the peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high, hlake it the day- before it is wanted. Lemons Preserved, Liquid and Dry.* —Choose your lemons as near of a size as you can, with rather thick rinds ; pare, and put them In cold water, then into boiling water over a moderate fire ; and when you can insert a pin’s head with ease, throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to lisse, then put in the lemons, give them a few boils together, skim, and put them into a pan; the next day drain off the sugar, boil it several times, and th.en pour it over the lemons again ; the third day boil the sugar to la nappe, adding fresh sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, and give them one boil; do this for two days successively; on the last, however, boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. Lemon Pudding.— Peel four lemons thin ; boil them till they are tender; rub them through a hair sieve, and preserve the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of fresh butter, and pour over them some boiling milk or cream in which a stick of cinnamon has been boiled. When cold, mix with them the ulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well eaten ; sweeten according to taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge a dish with good puff-paste, put in the mixture ; garnish the top with strings of paste, as for tartlets, and bake it in a moderately heated oven. Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of fresh butter with half a pound of loaf- sugar, into a saucepan,_ and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils; put it into an earthen pan, and grate the lind of a l.irge lemon into it. and let it stand till cold; beat eight eggs, and squeeze