G.R E ( 276 G R E and put into it a glass of table-beer, a glass of water, some peppei-, salt, lemon- peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle, or musliroom catsup; cut an onion in slices, flour, and try it in apiece of butter until it is brown ; then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it, covered, for twenty minutes. Strain it off lor use, and when it is cold, take off the fat. Gravy ^o maA:e Mutton eat like P'eni- «07t.-^Take a stale woodcock or snipe, and cut it to pieces, (first cut out the bag from the entrails), and simmer it with as much • unseasoned meat-giavy as you want. Strain it, and serve in the dish witli your meat. Gravv, Petits Pates of.*—Roll some puff-paste to a proper thickness, and cut it into round pieces with a circular paste- cutter ; lay half their number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau, proportioned to the size of the petits pates, cover them with the remain- ing pieces, dorez, and bake them. When done, open them, cut the godiveau\w\.o pieces, and ponr into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut in dice ; this however must not be done un- til the petits pales are to be sent to table. Gravy Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean, and then slice them into a stewpan ; and rvhen they give out yellowish brown juice, moisten them with a glass of clear vege- table broth, and boil them with a little salt, an onion, and a clove, for a quarter of an hour; then rub it through cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. Gravy Soup.—Take a leg of beef, and well wash and soak .it; break the bone, ond put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced, and fried to a nice brown, taking great care that they are not burnt, two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till tlie soup is ns rich as you wish it to be ; then take out the meat; when it is cold take off the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and tlic nicest part of a head of celery boiled, and cut to pieces, cayenne, and a little salt; carrot may be added, with turnips, cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive; or, the herbs with- out the vermicelli, or vermicelli only; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom catsup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. GREEN GAGES in 7irn«f/.v.—Take some preserved green-gages, and drain all the syrup from them ; put them into a jar, and to every quart of brandy put five ounces of sugar; when the sugar is melted, pour it over the gages; then cover tliem very close with bladder and leather, and keep the jar hlled with brandy. Green-gages to Candy.—When finish- ed in the syrup, (see green-gages to pre- serve,'I put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take ofT the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the f] uit, till it is perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves ii; a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully. Green-GAGES, Compote of. — Take green-gages, prick them witli a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water, till they are a little softened; then take them off, and let them cool in the same water; when that is done, take the highest degree of clarified stigar, put your green-gages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire, to make tlieia * throw off their water and turn green; during this second operation, you must cover your pan with a tin plate, that the steam may not esc.npe ; after which, take them out, and dress them in your dishes. Green-gages Dried.—Take preserved green-gages, put them over the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put them on sieves, and into the stove; change them every day, and turn them, or they will stick, let them remain in the stove for three days, then put them into papered boxes, with a sheet of paper be- tween each layer of the fruit. Green-gage Jam.—Rub ripe green- gages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan; ihen. to a pound of pulp, add a pound of silted sugar; after which boil to a proper thickness, skim it clean, and put it into small pots. Green-gages to Preserve.—You must choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over tliem; blanch the kernels witli a small sharp knife; next day, pour the syiup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for six or eight minutes; skim, and add the plums and kernels, Miiiimer till clear, taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it.