( 324 ) M a C MAC powder, boil, strain, and finisli, as tlicrcin directed. Macaroons Filled.*—Take some sweet macaroon paste, and lay the cakes on wafer, quite routid; when all are done, have a round stick (about an inch in dia- meter), and make a hollow in the centre of each ; bake them as usual, till yellow, and crisp ; tlien take them out, and put in the hollows preserved cherries, rasp- berries, or some jelly ; and instead of detaching the macaroons from the paper, cut it close round the edge.'. Macaroon (Filled) Tart of.*—Cement together as many sheets ol wafer-paper as will be suflicient to cut a piece the size of a dish ; spread over its surface sweet macaroon paste, about a quarter of an inch thick ; on this [)lace a border of almond-shaped macaroons round the edge ; then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole; cross these again, so as to form a treillis over the surface, taking care to make the points touch neatly; wlien the whole is covered, put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour; then take it out, and garnish the spaces between the macaroons with various preserved fruits. Macaroons d la Portuguise-.*—l't)Me: si.K ounces of potatoe flour-, a pound of sweet almonds, a pound and a quarter of •sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds ; beat the eggs to a^snow, then mix them witk the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour; beat the whole up well, and put the preparation into small paper cases, and bake them 'like other biscuits. Macaroons, Sweet.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, throw them into cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty four hours; at the end of that time, pound them, a handful at a time, adding occasionally some white of egg, till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take two pounds of the best lump-sugar, pound and sift it, then put it to the al- moitds, with the grated rinds of two lemons ; beat thcfe ingredients together- in the mortar, adding orte at a lime, as many eggs as you firrd necessary to moisten the prrste, which should be thin, but not too mtrch so, as in that case it •' would run ; your paste beirtg ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the maca- roons on sheets of white paper either round or oval, as you please; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in baking, and if prrt nearer worrld touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets of paper on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of itn hortr. 1 his kind of cake reqrrires great care and attentiorr; it will be well therefore to take notice of the folio-wing rules: 1. To mind that the almonds are per- fectly di-y before you begin to pound them. 2. Take great care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would entirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven; to avoid this, open each separately, and if perfectly fresh, divide the yolk and n Idle witli great care. 3. The oven must be no more than rnoderately heated, nothing being more liable to burn than almonds and sugar ; by the least negligence in this respect, the surface would be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. 'I he best method to obviate any mischief of this sort:—put two or three macaroons into the oven to try it; leave them in the usual time; and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven is propel ly he.ated, and the whole of the macaroons may then be put in. Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound of sweet almond.s, and two pounds of sifted sugar; make your paste as usual, to which add a spoonful of powdered cin- namon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, some preserved lemon and orange-peel (of each a spoonful), chopped small, and the grated rind of two lemons; mix them all together in the mortar, and then lay your macarcoiis as usual, and bake them with equal care. Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of.*—Join together us many sheets of wafer-paper with water as you may judge necessary, to cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of white paper, cover it with the spiced macaroon paste, about an inch thick ; put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the mean while, boil a quarter of a pound or six ounces of sugar with some orange-flower water, until, on dipping the skimmer into, and shaking it in the air, the sugar flics off in small bottle-shaped piece.s; .-»s soon as the tart is baked, pour the sugar over it pretty thickly ; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should re- semble icing ; in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACEDOINE.*—Take as many c.ir- rots and turnips as you think necessary, cut them into pieces, blanch and boil them in a little conaomnic ; reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables, young peas and bcan.«. French beams, cut into lozenges, cauliflow-cr.s, artichoke bottoms, cucumbers, asparagus heads.