C II o C H O ( 167 ) Chocolate Sweetmeats.*—Tiike two ounces of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water, put it on the fire, ami when quite dissolved, mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, to which may be added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, and then spread it on wafer-paper in wliat forms you please, and bake tliem in a moderate oven. If the sweetmeats he not sufficiently dark coloured, add a little bol-ammoniac. Chocolate Tari.—Put two spoonsful of fine flour in aste.wpan, with the yolks of six eggs, reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add a quarter of a pound of rasped chocolate, with a stick of cinnamon, some sugar, a little salt, and some rasped green lemon-peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon-peel cut small, and having tasted whether it has a fine flavour, let it cool; when cold, mix this with the reserved whites of eggs beat up to a froth, ivhen you use it. put it into pattypans, and put either^juff or tart paste over them ; ice, and bake them in a moderate oven. Chocolate Tart. Mix a little flour and cream, with a proportionable quan- tity of chocolate, a bit of sugar, and three, eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bottom ; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat and frothed upon it; glaze it with sugar. Chocolate JVine.—Take a pint of sherry, or a pint and a half of port, four ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of fine sugar, and halt an ounce of white starch, or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve minutes. But if your chocolate is made with sugar, take double the quan- tity of chocolate, and half the quantity of sugar. CHOUDER. — Lay some slices c\it from the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, in a deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork ; then put a. layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, then alternately the other materials until the pan is nearly full, season with pepper and salt, put in .about a pint and a half of water, lay a paste over the whole, cover the stewpan very close, and let it stand, with fire above as well as below, for four hours; then skim it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of Madeira made hot over it, also some .Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole. CHOUX.*—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh but- ter, the rinds of tivo lemons grated, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt; as soon as the water begins to boil, add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring with a spoon until quite done, then let it cool. After that, break into it a sufficient number of eggs to make the paste soft; taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand ; when it may be formed according to fancy. This paste may be glazed and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts; when baking the chonx, be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. Ibid.—Put into a large stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of water, two ounces of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt; when the butter is quite melted, take out the lemon-peel, and add, .a little at a time, some very dry sifted flour. Stir these well over the fire, until a paste is formed that may be e.asily removed from the sides of the pan. Then take it from the fire, and break in half a dozen eggs, one by one ; taking particular care that all are perfectly fresh and sweet; when the eggs are well mixed in, form your paste into little balls the size of a marble, and place them on a baking sheet, about an inch apart, as they increase a good deal in size ; wash each over with dorure Previously mixed with a little milk, and ake them in a moderately heated oven; when done, take them from the baking sheet with a knife; make a small opening at the side, and put in any kind of sweet- meat you may think proper, and dish them en buisson. Another way.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with rather more than half a pint of milk, a little sugar, and lemon-peel, into a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; as soon as it boils, add to it a quarter of a pound of flour, and with a wooden spoon stir it for about tivo minutes after the paste is formed ; break into this four eggs, one by one, then add a little salt and some pounded ratafia bis- cuits; beat it up a minute or two, and then drop it on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. These are also cut open, and sweetmeats inserted; be careful to keep the oven close. Choux d la d’Arloise.—Proceed as above, but instead of four, put in the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flower.'!, and a gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed together, drop them in lengths about the size of a finger ; egg, and hake them ; bclorc they are entirely done.