D I S f 217 ) D R A bic is immersed in the water, wlucli instantly communicates the degree of heat it receives. The Sand-bath is resorted to when a very strong degree of heat is neces- sary; a vessel filled with sand is placed on the fire, and the alembic completely buried in it; this last process, however, requires the utmost precaution. Glass, or earthen vessels, are pre- ferable in distilling waters ; but if they are not suffieiently large to contain the whole of the liquid, copper ones, if well tinned, may be employed instead. Earthen vessels should be perfectly baked, free from blemish, and previously proved. Great care is necessary that the fire be not too fierce at the commencement of the operation, as the vessels employed are liable to bre.ak when exposed sud- denly to a strong heat; the fire should therefore be increased gradually. Observe, that when a substance re- quires repeated distillation, the fire should be increased for each operation. Also observe : that the distilled liquid ought to flow from the alembic in one continued, though small stream; jf it come by drops only, the liquor obtained will be but slightly impregnated with the essential oil. The first drops which flow from the alembic are called phlegm, and should not be mixed with the distilled liquid ; it is therefore better to place a small glass under the mouth of the alembic; when nearly half filled, remove it, and put the vessel in which the distilled substance is to je received. The various vessels used in distilling ougiit to be very closely cemented to- gether; the material for this purpose is called lute ; and is also used to put over the corks of the bottles containing spi- rituous liquors. The best hite is made with linseed oil, a small quantity of litharge, to give it dryness, and very dry clay reduced to powder; by beating these ingredients well m a mortar, a thick paste is produced, which is easily spread over the edges of the vessels, and effectually excludes the air- This paste will continue moi.st and ductile for a long time. Another lute is composed of clny,sand, and cow-hair, or hemp ; tliis is generally used to put over such vessels as are liable to crack, or melt, on being exposed to very strong bent. _ Lulmn Supientio! is made of slacked lime, flour, and clay, finely pulverised and sifted; bound together with whites of eggs, beaten up with water. The best method of excluding the air from bottles, is, by dipping the corks in a mi.xture of white wax and beef-suet, in the proportion of two-thirds of the for- mer to one-third of the latter; and then, when the corks are well driven into the bottles, to cover them with the first- mentioned lute. DOTTERELS. — They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOVES.—The turtle-dove is distin- guished by a blueish ring round its neck, the otlier parts being almost white. The stock-dove-exceeds both the wood-pigeon and ring-dove in size. When they are fresh and fat, they are limber-footed, and feel full in the vent; but when stale, their vents are green and flabby. DRAGEES (Co?n?no«).*—The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little : thus to a quar- ter of a pound of the gum, take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. W'hen these and the gum are well mixed, roll out the paste until it is as thin as the back of a knife-blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like a sugar-loaf, with the top taken o£F, with tlie largest end of which, cut as many pieces of the paste as will about two- tliirds fill the cutter; press these through the smaller end into paper cases; set them in a warm place for several days. These kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the same manner as almonds. Dragees en Pastillage.*—These dra- gees are made of the same materials as the superfine dragees; the only differ- ence consists in their forms, which resemble the bonbotis: to make them, it is necessary to have a number of wooden moulds, (pear-tree wood is the best), on which must be stamped small squares, with various devices engravedon them. Cut your paste into small pieces: press each piece on a mould ; take off all the super-abundant paste ; then dip your finger in water, and with it remove the paste from the mould ; dry them in cases like the other dragees. Dragees, Superfine,*—Vut a quarter of a pound of the best gum-dragon into a pan, witli a pint of cold water, cover, and let It stand for twenty-four hours; then take a strong close cloth, about two feet long, and put a part of your gum into it; fold it three tinaes, so as to envelop the gum; then wring the cloth, by 'vhicli means the purest gum will be forced tlimugli; scrape it off'carefully with a knife, and then proceed in the snine way, until all the gum he strained ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it about with a pestle for linlf an hour; then add to it a