GAR ( 261 ) GAT a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them through a silk sieve, with a_ wooden spoon ; put this into a rnortar with some butter, and beat it until llioroughly in- corporated ; then put this butter into any sauce you please. Garlic (Kssetice of).* — Take an earthen skillet, place it on the lire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, lialf a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. Garlic Gravy.—Slice a pound and a half of veal, or beef; season it with pep- per and salt; put it into a stewpan, with two carrots split, and four cloves of gar- lic sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water ; put the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick to the pan; when it does, turn it, and let it be very well browned, (but take care that it is not in the least burnt); then dredge itwith flour, and pour in aquartof broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a lemon; set it on the fire again, then let it simmer gently for an hour and a half longer; then skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy, by pour- ing it through a napkin, straining and pressing it very hard. Garlic Pickled.—Pick the garlic very clean; put it over a brisk fire, in salt and water, and boil it up quick; drain and dry it: make a pickle of double dis- tilled vinegar and salt; pour this boiling hot on the garlic; repeat the same the next day. Garlic Sauce.—Take two cloves of gar- lic, and pound them with apiece of fresh butter, about the size of a nutmeg ; roll it through a double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. GARNITURE.*—Lay some cocks- combs, kidneys, and livers, into warm water, that all the blood may soak out; when they are clean, have ready some hot (but not boiling) water, into which throw the cocks-combs ; stir them about, and take them outone by one; lay them in a cloth with some salt; rub them well to remove the pellicle, then put them again into warm water. The kidneys, when cleansed, should be boiled in a Wane for half and hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to prevent their becoming liard, though they should be firm. When all are cold, trim, and drain them for use. Garniture a, la Flamande. —Cut thirty carrots, and as many turnips, into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a consomme, with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces, braised with cabbages, (see that article); drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as follows : a lettuce, a car- rot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you may think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions, to garnish your lettuces, &c. When the meat (or whatever you fill the middle of the dish with), is ready for table, pour over it a nivernaise, reduced <and mixed with a little reduced espag- nole. Garniture en Ragoiit.*—Put into a saucepan some cocks-combs and kidneys, fat livers, lamb sweet-breads, truflies, queiielles, mushrooms; pour over these sufficient espag/io/e travaillce ; or, if you wish your ragoflt white, put tlie yolks of three or four eggs into some velouic, and use that to dress the above articles, in- stead of the espagnole. GATEAU de Cornpiegne. * — Take three pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, an ounce and four drachms of yeast, an ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of whipped cream. With these ingredients proceed as fol- lows : sift the flour, of which put a fourth part on the slab, make a hole in the mid- dle, put into it a glass of warm water and the yeast; mix them together as lightly, and with as much dispatch as possible, adding more warm water if necessary ; when well worked up for some minutes, gather it together, (it ought to leave the slab and the hand freely); put it into a saucepan; cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour,, lay it on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, in which put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs, one at a lime, (break them into a basin, in case all should not be good); the eggs being put in, add by degrees the butter, stirring ihein well; then mix the flour, a little at a time, with the above, until the whole is formed into a smooth paste ; more eggs must be added if it be too stiff; work it up a little, and then add the leaven; work that in; and lastly, put in the whipped cream. The whole opera- tion being thus performed, have ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (about eight inches in diameter,aud nine in height);