Q U I ( 427 ) QUI quails with this njixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another sauce- pan some veal cut into dice, a carrot, seven or eight small onions, a clove, the trimmings of tlie truffles used above, half a bay-leaf, and a good bit of butter ; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then add a glass of white wine, and the same of stock, give it two or three boilings ; pour this seasoning over the quails, set them on the fire. Half an hour will be sufficient time to cook them, when done, take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced tapagnole. QUENI5LLES.*—Take six ounces of panada, ten of whatever kind of meat you intend making the quenelles, and eight of calf’s udder, all pounded sepa- rately, as fine as possible, and rubbed through a quenelle sieve; pound the meat and panada together for a quarter of an hour, then add the udder; and continue pounding fifteen or twenty minuteslonger ; put to these five drachms of spiced salt, a very little nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs ; beat these up five minutes, then put in two more yolks, a table-spoonful of veloute or bechamel, and pound again five minutes ; then turn the whole into a pan, and set it on ice. Have ready two or three deep dishes, and a saucepan of water (nearly boiling), in which put a dessert spoon, fill another dessert spoon with the/arce, make the surface quite even with the edge of the spoon, this will give it the form of a half egg; dip the blade of a knife in the hot water, pass it over the top of the quenelle, and then raise it carefully from the spoon, by slipping that which was in the water under, and place it on the dish; proceed in the above man tier until you have as many as you wish ; then have ready some boiling stock, with which fill the dishes containing the quenelles, (do it with the utmost care, so that tlie.gj/CTieffes be neither displacea nor spoiled in shape), cover the dishes and set them on the edge of the stove to simmer. When done, drain them, and 86rvc fis occasion nisy rc(juir6» QUINCE Cakes.—Pare and core half a dozen quinces, boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain It; mix this with half a pint of syrupof quinces, and the same ol syrup of barberries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; boil the whole, to casse, and then pour it into small shallow moulds, of any shape you please; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. Quince Cakes Transparent.—Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of the syrup of barberries ; set them on a gentle fire, boil and skim them well; then add tivD pounds and a half of fine sugar, keep stirring until it reaches candy height; then take it oflf, and when nearly cold, lay it, in any form you please, on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. Quinces, Crnnphte of'.* — Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving-pan, with the juice of a lemon ; when hot, add the quinces, and give them a boil toge- ther ; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier; leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. Quince Cream. — Take four or five ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to Soften them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, vvith a little ginger ; when tolerably thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, and flavour it with rose- water. Quince Jelly.* — Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe, they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour; take oft’the down which covers them, quarter, core, put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them ; set them on the fire, and when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify, and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar; then take it off, add the liquor to it, stirring it well ; when mixed, put it on tlie fire, still stirring; as soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle; take it from the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. Quinces (fo —Gather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove the down; then quarter, and put them into bottles, corked tight. Give them half an hour’s boil in the bain-marie. Quince Marmalade.—the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them throu^fh, weigh the pulp ; boil an equal quantity of sugar to petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them together over the fire, until it will fall from the spoon like a jejly; the marmalade is then fit to be pat into pots, and when cold, cover them close. Quinces (to Pickle).— Pare and cut half, a dozen quinces into small pieces,