J A C ( 2D3 ) J A C two'eggs to thicken, stirring it vvell, but without letting it boil; lastly, strain, and pour it over the fish. Jack or Pike d /’Arlc^t{(?ie.*—Take a large jack, clean and scale it, take out the entrails by the gills; raise the skin from one side, being careful not to injure the fish ; lard a fourth part of it with anchovies, another quarter with gher- kins, a third with carrots, and a fourth with truffles. Stull' it with a fish farce, put it into a fish kettle; moisten it with a braise ; do not, however, let the larded parts soak in it j set it on the fire, bast- ing frequently with its own liquor ; keep fire on the top as well as under it. When done, serve it over a sauce hachie. Jack or Pike Baked.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following stuffing; some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. In helping a pike, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards; by this means there will be fewer hones given. Jack or Pike Boiled.— Take a large jack, clean it, takeout the gills; make a stuffing with crumbs of bread, grated fine, some sweet herbs, chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pep- per. salt, some oysters, chopped small, a bit of butter ; mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs ; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump- water, with some vinegar and salt in it; when it boils put in the fish ; if tlie fish is large, it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. Jack or Pike, Bride’s Fashion.—Cut a pike_ into several pieces, boning and flattening them as much as possible; roll a good farce round them; tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in white wine and broth, with a bit of butter, bits of roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper and salt; when done, strip each bit, and serve with what sauce you think proper; a relishing sharp sauce is generally con- sidered the best. Jack or Pike Broiled as Cutlets.—The fillets of pike being taken ofl'with a sliarp knife, cut each fillet in a sloping manner into four or five pieces, at the same time taking off the skin I toss them up in an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; lay them on paper, bread crumb tnem, and with a fork take them up,_and dip them into clarified butter, then in bread crumbs again; broil them over a mo- derate fire of clear wood ashes, a good colour on both sides; place them c/i couronne (in form of a crown) round the dish; squeeze the juice of nearly half a lemon into four table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mix this well up with a bit of glaze; when very hot, pour it into the centre of the fish. Jack or Pike d la Chambord.*—Take off the scales, and clean a good size jack; remove the skin, and lard the fish, and put it into a fish-kettle with a marinade ; when it boils, take it out, and place it in the oven, basting it occasionally. As soon as it is sufficiently done, take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it; place round it quenelles, veal sweet- breads larded, cray-fisli, artichoke bot- toms, croutons, and a garniture d la Chambord ; to tiiese may be added pigeons d la Gautier, eels larded with truffles, &c. Jack or Pike au Court-bouillon.*— Clean the fish without opening it, tie up the head, put it in the fish-kettle; pour the court-bouillon over, and simmer it for an hour, or longerif the fish be large. If it is served as a rot, let it cool, then lay a napkin in a dish, place the fish on it, garnished with parsley. Jack or Pike au Dauphin.* and scale a large jack ; soak it in oil, with sweet herbs, salt and spices; pass a skevver through its eyes and the middle of the body, giving it the form of a do|- phin ; bake it, basting with the mari- nade, and serve it with capers or anchovy sauce. Jack or Pike Fricassee {fVhite).— Thoroughly wash the pike, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen of small onions, half boiled, some parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, a bay-leaf; soak these together some time, then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt and whole pepper; boil on a quick fire, reduce the sauce; take out the parsley, shalots, cloves, thyme, and bay-leaf, and thicken with cream, eggs, and a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided the wine does not make it sufficiently tart. Jack or Pike with Ch-avy.*—Ijard a jack with bacon; line a stewpan with slices of veal ana bacon ; lay your jack on them, cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour, then pour over it a bottle of while wine, and a pint of good stock ov consomme; 2C3