( 346 M UT MUT .•son Fashion.*—Take a leg of mutton that has hung some days, lard the upper side with bacon, and lay it in the following marinade: vinegar and water, a lemon cut in slices, garlic, nutmeg, cloves, slices of onions, coriander bruised, thyme, bay- leaf, parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; leave the mutton in tliis for twenty-four hours (or five or six days, if you like) ; then take it out, and roast it, basting it with the mai-inade strained ; serve with its own gravy. Mutton {Leg of) Stuffed.*—Make a atufliug with a little beef-suet chopped, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, and a few bread crumbs, mix all to- gether with the yolk of an egg, put this under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton under the flap ; then roast it, and serve it to table with some good gravy in the dish. Mutton {Leg of ) Stuffed with Oys- ters.—Make a forcemeat of beef-suet, chopped small, the yolks of hard boilea eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, savory, and some oysters, a dozen or fourteen, all cut fine, some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs; put this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of the leg of mutton, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. Mutton (Loin of).— Roast it; some people think it eats much better if cut length-ways, like a saddle. It may also he used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut oft' as much fat as pos- sible. Mutton (Loin qf) en Fricandeau.*— Trim, and lard a loin of mutton ; take the trimmings of this, some beef and veal, lay them hi a stewp.an, the mutton on them, with carrots, onions, and a bouquet garni ; add consommi, ana cover it with a but- tered paper ; set it first on a brisk, and afterwards on a slow fire ; let it stand till quite done ; then take it out, and drain it, take oft’ the skin, glaze, and serve it with a ragoflt of endive, or a pus-6e of sorrel. Mutton {Loin of) Larded with Pars- ley.*— Take three loins of mutton, cut your fillets from them, leaving out the chine ; lard tliem with very green pars- ley, and soak them in oil, towliich add salt and pepper. Pass a skewer through, fasten them to the spit, and roast them, basting with oil. Half an hour is sutti- cient to do them. Serve with the pars- ley upwards, and a clear aspic. Mutton {Neck q/").—This joint is par- ticularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it. The bone ought to be cut short. The best end of the neck may be boil- ed, and served with turnips; or if you think proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in steaks, or made into pies, or u.ied for harrico. You may stew the scrags in broth ; or in a little water, with small onioos, some peppercorns, and a small quantity of rice, all served together. When you wish that a neck which is to be boiled should look particularly well, saw down the chine bone, strip the riba half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones, about four inches. To make the fat look particularly white, the skin should not be taken off till it is boiled. The fat belonging to the neck or loin of mutton, if chopped ve^ fine, makes a most excellent suei-pudding, or crust for a meat pie. Mutton {Neck of) Larded with Ham and Anchovies.—Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chop- ped parsley, shalots, sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Then let it braise or stew in a little stock, with a glass of white wine. When done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cnllis, to pve it the proper consistence. Squeeze in the juice of Imlf a lemon, and pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. Mutton (Neck of) d la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Take two necks of mutton, cut ort’the scrags; lie them up, and braise them in bacon, with three carrots, four onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, and some mutton or veal trim- mings ; moisten them either with stock or water, add salt, and set them on tbe fire to simmer for four hours ; then take them out, season with salt and pepper. Dip them in melted butter, cover them completely with bre-Td crumbs, and about an hour before dinner, broil three sides of them, and colour tlie fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clcam gi-avy. Mutton {Neck of) with Parsley.*— Take either a neck, loin, or saddle ot mutton, trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and when the pareley is tlioroughly well dried, baste it very frequently with hoga’-lard, until the meat is done ; tlien toss up a little, gravy, with some shalots cut small, salt and pepper, and serve it with the meat. Mutton {Neck tf) with Roots. * —