P I G PI G ( 400 ) onions, cuttlicm in semicircles, put them also into a stewpan,with a dessert-spoon- ful of flour; stir it well, and then add half a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, salt and pepper; give the whole a few boils, then pour it over the ears, fry them lightly; and when done, lay them on a dish,^with fried bread round. Pro’s Lars Broiled.*—Having slightly salted the ears, boil ihem in some good stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tar- ragon, streaky bacon, and half a glass of white wine; when done, split them in two, towards the thick part; rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over, and colour them on the gridiron. Pig’s Ears {Cake of).*— Take fifteen or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them in halves, and put them into a pan with some sward of bacon, clear salted water, juniper,coriander,bay-leaf,cloves,thyme, saltpetre; cover the pan with a cloth, garlic, basil, sage, and half an ounce of and lay another pan on the top, le.ave them in this for eight or ten days ; then drain, and put them into a braising-pan, with water, a bottle of white wine, and a glass of brandy, and simmer them; in about five hours take them oS' the fire ; when nearly cold, drain and arrange the ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould, alternately with pieces of tongue d Vicar- iate ; when full, cover, and put a weight on it; keep the mould as even as possi- ble, let it cool, turn it out, and serve the cake ivitli jelly. Pio’s^ars d laLyonnaise.*—Take some braised pig’s ears, and having cut them into pieces, put them into a pan with a few chopped onions, (previously tossed up in a little butter), add a small quan- tity of flour, and a glass of stock ; reduce it, and serve with vinegar and lemon- juice. Pig’s Ears., with a Puree of Lentils.* —Put rather more than a pint of lentils into a stewpan, lay on them some pig’s ears, two carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, two bay- leaves, and some salt; when the ears are done, take them out, and put them into a saucepan with a little broth, and keep them hot i put the lentils into a sieve, and rub them through with a wooden spoon ; if the puree be too thick or dry, add some stock, set it again on the fire, and reduce it. Drain the ears, lay them on a dish, and cover them completely with the puree. Pig’s ears may be dressed like this, with any other kind of puree you m.ay like better. Pio’s Ears Stuffed and Roasted.* ~ Make a farce of streaky bacon, veal. poultry, or game, minced, sweet herbs shred small, Inead soaked in cream, salt and apices ; with lW\s farce Btufl'as many half boiled pig’s ears as you may require; lake an equal number of large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, ana tie an ear in every slice ; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a slow' fire, basting with their own gravy. Pig’s Ears d la Venitienne.*—Boil the ears in some stock, wiih a couple of sprigs either of sage or tarragon ; when quite cold, rub them with lard ; cover tliem completely with bread ciumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. Pig’s Uars in Various Ways.—Rub the ears daily with the following mixture; salt, bay-leaves, basil, and cloves, all pounded together; in four or five days boil them thoroughly, either in water alone, or with green or dried peas; serve the ears with a puree of peas, or sauce Robert. They are also sometimes cut in small pieces, and broiled or fried ac« cording to your taste. Pig’s Feet and Ears Fricasseed.—If they are to;'be dressed with cream, no vinegar should be put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal- broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before serving, add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. Pig’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare them the same as for fricasseeing, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, and a handful of chopped parsley, and a sea- soning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Pig’s Feet d la Ste. Itlenehould.* — Cut some pig’s feet in halves, and hav- ing tied them up, that their form may be preserved, put them into a saucepan, with thyme, bay-leaf, carrots, onions, cloves, par,‘<ley, scallions, a little brine, half a bottle of white wine, two ladlcsful of broth or water, (they require a great deal of liquid, as they ought to be a long time oil tlie fiie); some bits of any kind of meat may also be added. When the feet have simmered for twenty-four liotTrs, leave them to cool in the liquor, untie them carefully ; the next day dip them into melted butter, season with pepper, cover completely with bread crumbs, and broil ttiem slowly. Serve them without any sauce. Pig’s Feet and Ears Pickled.—Wash the feet and ears very clean, and between every foot put a bay-leaf; when they are