BEE ( -w ) BEE Bpef S/oc/t.—This is mnde from the legs, sliin, and scrags of beef, or any hones tliat are to spare ; chop them into pieces, wash tliem, jma put them m ^ larac pot on tlic fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take oH’the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gently and put in three or four carrots well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, and one clove of gar- lick ; put the cover on, and mind to skim it when wanted. VVhen the meat is done to pieces, run it through the sieve, the same as a consonnni. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for vegetable soups, &c., if required. Beef SfocA-.—Put chuck beef, cut in pieces, into a pot, set it on the fire with water enough to coverit. VVhen boiling, skim it clean ; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, cleaned carrots, leeks, onions, ‘turnips, celery, and a little salt; boil the meat till it is tender, skim off the. fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Beef Suet and Marrow, how to use.— To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. It is used for most forced meats, (and the marrow is used for par- ticular occasions), and is extremely good to put in to braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use it instead of Imtter, soak if in hike-warm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it soft, and to squeeze out the water. Beef Tansy.—Take seven eggs, leav- ing out two whites, ai d a pint of cream, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, strawberry leaves, shred very small; add a plate of grated bread; mix all well together, and fry them the same as all other tansies are hied, but not too brown. Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. Beef Tendons a VAllenwnde.*—Take two or three poundsof the breast of beef, and cut it into three or four pieces of equal size ; blanch them for a stiort time in boiling water ; take also half a large cabbage, and blanch it tor a quarter of an hour; then hoil your breast of beef with some stock, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a hay lea/, and a little thyme and basil. When it has boiled an hour, put in the half cabbage, previously cut in three pieces, well squeezed and tied together, also hur large whole onions: when they are all nearly done, add four sausages, a little salt ami coarse pepper; then finish the stewing till there remair:s very little sauce; strain the meat and vegetables, and wipe off the loose fat with a cloth. Serve the meat in a dish, with the cabbage and onions round it, .and the sausages placed upon tlie meat; strain tiie remaining sauce through a sieve, and take ofl’ the fat, then pour it over the meat. Beef Tripe A la Provenyale.*—Take some very thick tripe, scrape and wash it in several waters ; then stew it with a pound of grated bacon, two carrots, two onions, (one of which should be stuck with cloves), bay leaves, ttiynr.e, garlic, whole pepper, parsley : moisten witii a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomnU ; let your tripe stew f<ir eight houi'S oyer a slow fire ; then let it cool in tlie liquor, then lieat it again, and let it drain, after which, cut it into fillets. You must previously prepare twelve onions, cut in fillets, and fried in oil, with a little garlic and chopped parsley; then boil your tripe. Now it is cut inio fillets, with the fried onions, and half the oil in which they were fried, and a little of the liquor in which your tripe was fir.<t dressed. Serve the tripe as hot .ns possible, gainishing it all over with bread, first dipped in oil, salt and pepper, and then dried upon a gridiron. Beef Toasted Italian Fashion.—Take some steaks, and hack them ; then sprinkle them with lose vinegar, and elder vinegar, season them with sail, pepper, and coriander seed ; then lay them one upon another in a dish for an hour, and broil them on a gridirui, or loast them before the fire, and serve them in their own gravy, or their own gravy and juice of an orange, boiled togetber. Beef Tripe A la Fricas.s6e.—Let your tripe be very white, cm it into slips, put it into some boiled gravy, with a little cream and a bit of butter-mixed with flotir; stir it till the Imtter is melted : add a little white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice; shake all together ; stew it a little. Beef Tripe A la Milanaise.*—Cut your tripe into fillets, and dress it in the same manner as tor beef tripe A la Provenqale ; then instead of finishing with the onions fried in uil, your tripe must he redHccd, and then putahiyerofitinloadeepdish, the bottom of which must he previously lined with croutons, then on the tripe put a layer of gr.ited p.armesnn cheese, then bread, then tripe, ami soon till your dish is filled; let the whole brown to the bottom, and then serve.