S PI 458 S PI thfi baker’s knead bread. Have ready a number of differeiit-sized moulds of pear- tree wood, on which are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various dimensions ; then cut your paste into as many pieces as you have moulds, in the following propor- tions;—for the mould containing a pound, take eighteen ounces of ])RSte ; for a half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of a ound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; nead each piece separately on the slab, rub them with flour to prevent their ad- hering, and then put them into the re- spective moulds; press it down tight; in a minute or two turn tl.'em over, place them on a tin plate (previously rubbed with olive oil), and with a soft brush take off'what flour may remain on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are baking, dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient quantity of beer, with which, by means of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced bread as soon as it is done; and theti, while it is moist and warm, deco- rate it with blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange-peel, cut into dice. You may, if you think proper, cut these sort of sweet meatsinto very small pieces, and knead them into your paste at first. When they are nearly cold, separate the pieces with a knife. Spiced Bread {Dutch) Rich.*—Make your paste in the same manner asabove, and when kneaded with the potash, add a quarter of a pound of anise, two ounces of coriander, two ounces of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves (all reduced to an impalpable powder) a pound of candied lemon-peel, the same of candied orange- peel, both cut into thin slices ; mix these ingredieiits thoroughly with the paste, jind then cut it into pieces, each weigh- ing twenty-eight ounces; these, lyhen baked, will notexceeda pound in weight; spread them on your slab; and form them into squares two or three inches in thick- ness; place them, side by side, on a baking-tin, previously rubbed with oil of almonds, and put round the tin some slips of wood to prevent the spiced bread from getting thinner at the edges ; dip a brush in some_ milk, and rub the sur- face of the spiced bread with it; put them into a moderate oven until well jisen and of a brownish colour. Whilst they are baking, blanch a few almonds, and Split them, cut some candied lemon nnd orange-peel into very thin slices, and as soon as the spiced bread is taken from the oven, wash it over with a de- eoctisn of isinglass and beer, and ininie- (liafely decoiate It with thcalmonds. &c. Another //'i/y.—Take a pound of liquorice, boil it in six quarts of milk. until the fluid is reduced to half; then strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds of honey, and boil for a quarter of an hour; after which pour it into a trough upon the flour, with which mix it up by means of a strong spatula; when the liquid has taken up as much flour as it will possibly contain, extend it along the bottom of the trough; as soon as it is a little cooled, put to it half a jiint of milk, in which was infused, the night before, three ounces of the best potash, knead it well, and then add cinnamon, corian- der, and anise (two ounces of each), an ounce and a half of cloves, all reduced to powder, a pound of candied lemon, and the same of candied orange-peel, chopped small. Finish as above directed, except that milk should be washed over them, in'-tead of isinglass, when baked. Spiced Bread {Rotterdam).*—Make your paste as directed with the liquorice, milk, and honey, without any spices, roll it out very thin (about the eighth of an inch), cut this into pieces the size of a playing card, place them on a baking- tin well rubbed with olive oil, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, wash them over with sugar, boiled with orange-flower water to a syrup. Let them dry, and tie them in packets, four in each. SPINACH, Boiled.—Spinach issome- times extremely gritty; it must there- fore be picked and ihorouglily well washed in several waters; then put it into a large saucepan of boiling water with plenty of salt in it, let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it in squares, lay it on a dish, and serve it to table. Spinach d la Bonne Femme.*—Havirg thoroughly washed and picked your spi- nach, scald it well; do it quickly that it may keep its colour; then add three onions stuck with cloves, some sweet herbs, sail, and pepper. \\ hen the spi- nach is quite done, drain it; mince and put it into another saucepan in a little melted butler, and half a glass of cream, or good milk ; stir all together well, and serve very hot. Spinach in Boxes.— Cut bits of bread tolerably thick, and give them the form of little boxes of any shape; scoop out the inside without breaking througb. leave a border of a m oper thickness, and fry them of a good brown colour, in but- ter, oil or lard ; drain them the same ns all frituics, and fill them with a well se.nsoned spinach ragout; serve with or without a cover. . Spinach Tr/ffers.—Boil some spinacli thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to it