C II E CUE ( 144 mould, set it in ice, and lillit with the jel- ly; do not turn it out till the last minute. Cheuiues in Jelly.—%X\\, half a pound of green gooseberries in tlie side, tiiat part of their juice may run out; put tiiem into pots witli a little water in each; cover the pots very close, and put them in a saucepan of water over tlie lire, till the gooseberries are quite clear; stone a pound of cherries, and beat a pound of doubje-refined sugar, strew some of it in a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, c’over ttiem with sugar; add live or six spoonsful of the gooseberry liquor, put them on the fire, and let them boil gently till the sugar is melted, then they may boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it jellies in the spoon it is done enough. Cherries (fo keep).—Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cherries, and put them into clean and dry bottles; when full, cork them light, and resin or seal them. Bury them in the ground with the corks downwards. Cherry Marmalade.* — Choose the ripest, largest, best red coloured cher- ries, you can meet with, and take of them double the weight of the sugar you intend to use; stone and tail; and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see the bottom of the pan; the marma- lade is then sufficiently done, and may be put into pots. Cherry Marmalade. * — Boil two pounds of sugar, with two glasses of water, skim it well, until, on shaking the skimmer, after dipping it in the sugar, the latter drops from it like icicles; then you may put in four pounds of cherries, picked and stoned; boil them, and when the marmalade flowsreadily, take it from the fire, and put it into pots. Cherry Marchpane.* — Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half of sugar, and a pound of cherries; pound the almonds to a paste, and mi.x it with the sugar, boiled to petit boule; then having stoned, 17611 bruised, and squeez- ed out the juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring constantly until the paste is pro- perly done; then finish it in the usual way, (See Marchpa.xe.) Strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any other fruit may be used in the same way. Cherries (Massepain of).—Take the atones from half a pound of ripe cherries, bruise the fruit, and then add to it a pound of sugar, and the same of pounded sweet almonds ; put them on the lire, and work them till quite dry. When this is quite cold, pound it with the whites of three or four eggs, and a little raw sugar. Tut it on paper of whatever form you please, and bake in a moderate oven. Cherry Paste.—Take two pounds of Morelja cherries, stone tUenif press out the juice through a sieve, (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire to dry it a little, mix a pound of sugar boiled to grande plume with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon ; when the paste is of a good consistence, put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle oven. Cherries( Preserved dry in lunches). * —Ice up some fine equal sized cherries in bunches, seven or eight in each, fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them into sugar boiled to souffle. Let the cherries boil up in it fourteen or fifteen times, then skim and pour it into an earthen pan, set it in a stove till the next day, when drain and lay out the cherries to dry. To each pound of fruit allow an equal weight of sugar. Cherries, {Preserved, Liquid).* — Stone and take the stalks from six pounds of cherries, and put them into an equal quantity of clarified sugar boiled to grande plume; boil them up several limes in a covered saucepan ; skim, take them from the fire, and let them drain ; the next day, boil the sugar to grand perlc, and add to it a little currant juice, put in your fruit, and boil it again'eight or ten times, covered ns before : take it off, skfim, and put it into pots. When the fruit is cold, cover it with currants frarnbnisees. Cherries {Preserved with the Leaves and Stalks green).—Dip the stalks and leaves in boiling hot vinegar, and then place them upright in a sieve to dry. Having boiled some double-refined .'Uigar to a syrup, put in cherries with the stalks and leaves prepared as above, and scald them ; take them out, and lay them again on a sieve, until the sugar be boiled to candy heigb.t; then arrange them pro- perly, and dry them like any other sweet- meats. Cherry Pudding.—Make a paste with butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed into flour, and moistened with irater; line a basin (well buttered) with this, put in picked cherries, cover the top with a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. Other fruit may be added. Some boil fruit puddings in a cloth without a haiiin. yfnof/ier tc«y.*—Make a plain batter pudding, and stir in picked cherries, taking care not to break them. The batter must be made thicker and with more eggs, than for plain boiling. Tie it in a clolli, and boil as any other pud- ding.