FRU 257 ) FRY Z 3 Fruit in Jelly.—Have in readinees a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould, about a quarter of an inch thick; let it be cold; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please, preserved fruit, or China oranges cut into quarters, or whatever shape you choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it stand till it is cold, to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up ; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and gar- nish it according to your own taste. Fruit (Preset-ved) Remarks on using. —Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar, re- quire no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Fruit, Preserved (Biscuifs of).—Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a supple paste, not too liquid ; then bake them on paper in a moderate oven. Frvit {topreserve Green).—Take pip- pins, apricots, pears, plums, or peaches, while they are green ; put them in a pre- serving-pan,cover them with vine-leaves, and then with fine clear spring water ; put on the cover of the pan, set them over a very clear fire; when they begin to simmer, take them ofl’ the fire, and carefully with the slice take them out; peel and preserve them as other fruit. Fruits (to Green, for Preserving or Take pippins, apricots,pears, plums, peaches, while green, for the first, or radish pods and French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both pro- cesses, and put them, with vine-leaves tinker and over, into a block-tin pre- serving-pan, with spring water to cover them, and then put on the tin cover to exclude all air; set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. Fruit to jyreserve for Tarts or Family Desserts.—Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples; gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold, a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down ; then put the jars up to the neck in_a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. Fruit Pudding, Baked.—Rub goose- berries, or any other fruit, througha hair sieve ; and to half a pint of the fine pulp, add a quarter of a pound of Naples bis- cuits, three ounces of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes; then add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with puff- paste round the rim. Fruit, iftpe (Tart of),—Take either cherries, currants, apples, &c. and stew them till they are half done in a good syrup, with a little brandy mixed with it. VVhen they are cold, line a dish with crisp tart paste; put the fruit into it, and round the edge a rim of puff-paste, two inches broad, and in the centre, upon the fruit, a small ornament cut out of puff-paste. Put it to bake in a moder- ately heated oven. FRYIN G.—Frying, though one of the most common culinary occupations, is one of those that is very seldom properly attended to, and consequently rarely well performed. The fire for frying should be kept sharp and clear—to keep the melted fat at a sufficiently high temperature, and with- out this precaution the fried substance cannot be browned. The meat is pre- pared in the same way as in broiling, by cutting it into chops or slices, of not more than half an inch or three quarters in thickness. Beef suet, lard, or oil, being melted in a pan and broujtht to the boiling point, or nearly so (which may be ascertained by putting into the fat a few sprigs of parsley, or a piece of bread, which, if they become crisp without acquiring a black colour, the fat is hot enough for frying), the meat should be put in. It is not necessary that the meat should be wholly immersed in the boiling fat; if it be immersed in part it will be sulficient. H hen flesh is the substance to be fried, the pieces, previously to their being put into the pan, are sometimes brushed over with eggs and crumbs of stale bread, flour, or any other farinaceous substance, rish are scarcely ever sent to table with- out being done in this manner when fried. One of the best preparations for this.pur-