G R A ( 275 ) G R A all round with water, and then pressing them together ; either glaze them with sugar, or serve in their natural cojour. GuaPES, (Sow,) or Verjuice, Vinegar 0/.—Crush the quantity of grapes you may require, before they are ripe, and leave them to ferment in an open vessel lor thirty days ; then obtain the juice liy means of a press ; let the liquor stand for a whole day to clarify. Filter it through blotting paper. It is preserved by having a layer of oil on the to,i. GRA'I’IN.*—Cut half a pound of fillet of veal into dice, ami put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, a few mush- rooms, parsley, shalots, chopped small, salt, pepper, and spices ; stir them up with a wooden spoon; and when the meat has been on the fire about a quarter of an hour, take the drain ofi'the butter, mince it very small, and put it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or gaine livers, well washed, dried, and parboiled, all the flit- ter parts taken out, pound them, adding at times as much panada as you have meat; boil some calf’s udder, trim, and remove all the skin when cold, and put about a third of the quantity of meat, and pound them together, adding, one at a time, three yolks, and three wliole eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and spices; when well pounded, set it by in an earthen pan for use. GRAVIES, Directions rejecting.— The skirts of beef and the kidney, will make quite as good gravy as any other meat, if prepared in the same manner. The kidney of an ox, or the milt, makes excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so-will the shank-end of mutton that has been dress- ed, if much gravy is not required. The shank-bones of mutton add greatly to the richness of gravy; but they should be first well soaked, and scoured clean. To obtain the flavour of French cookery, and to improve the taste of the gravies, tarragon should be used ; but it must not be added till a short time be- fore serving. gravy.*—Take three pounds of beef- steaks, two rabbits, (excepting the heads and breasts,]) a knuckle of veal, five car- rots, six onions, two cloves, two bay- leaves, a bunch of parsley ami scallions; put all these into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it, until the meat begins to give out the gravy, and adheres slightly; the jelly at the liottnm of the stewpan ought to be nearly black, and when that is the case, take it from the stove, and let it stand for ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with good broth, or water, (if the latter, not so large a quantity); let this simmer for three hours; skim and season it well. If water is used instead of broth, tlie gravy must be strained before it is used. Gravy may also be made of any pieces of ready dressed meat, in the following manner: cot some onions into slices, lay them at the bottom of the stewpan, and tlie meat on them, with the same ingre- dients as above, and two or three glasses of water ; then proceed in the same man- ner as the other, nntil the bottom of the stewpan is nearly black, when add water according to the quantity of meat; put salt if necessary, and simmer the whole for two hours ; then strain it through a sieve. Gravy (Slice some beef thin- ly ; broil a part of it over a very clear cniick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not:to dress it; put that, with the raw, into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, (one or two cloves, whole black pepper, berries of allspice, and a hunch of_ sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. Gravy d’EtouJ^ade.*—Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and tl'.e same number of cloves; put hall a dozen large onions into a stew- pan, with the beef, six or eight allspice, a little iiut'nieg, half a bottle of Madeira wine, ami some consomme ; boil it over a large fire utitil reduced to a jelly ; then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot aslies ; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being either bitter or burnt, moisten it with broth ; add some veal or fowl trimmings; and when the whole is sufficiently done, strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladleslul of espagwde to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Gravy/or a Fowl, when there is no Meat to 'make it of.—Nicely wash the feet ola fowl, and cut them, and the neck, into small pieces; simmer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of liarsley, and thyme; some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quar- ter of a pint of water, simmer them ttll they are reduced to half. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and hiitler, and add a tcaspooiiful of mushroom catsup. Gravy tci/hout Meat.—Take a basin, L