; CUE (14 iu sound ripe cherries, witli their stalks Bon,upon little hurdles, made for the pur- pose. Take ciirc not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven, jjl where tliey must remain till the oven is li cold ; turn the cherries, and put them ajjain into a cool oven O'ust after the r bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. I' AVhen cold, tie them up in little bunches, )i and keep them in a dry place. 1 Second tvay. — Put a pound of pow- ■! dered-stigar, a vfery little water, and five , pounds of morel la cherries (with the , stones taken out) into a saucepan, and t( make them scalding hot, when the cher- ries must be taken out and dried m a doth ; then return them to the pan, and heat them as before | dry again, and re- peat the process twice more; take them out for the last time, and dry them in a cool oven, laid singly. When dry, dip them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. They must be kept free from damp. CheRHIes, the Frencn «)«!/.—Hang morella cherries by the stalks, singly, in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust: when quite dry, cut them fiom the stalks, and place them, one by one, in glasses, cover them with powder-sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. Cherry Fritters.*—Cut some large sheets of wafers into pieces large enough to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them, one by one, in the wafer, one piece at the top and the other at the bottom ; having slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges together, lay them on a sieve, without touching each other, and leave them to dry. Make a light batter, in which put a little brandy, Madeira, and melted butter ; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan ; then drain them again; sprinkle fine sugar over, and serve them. Cherry Fritters., a la Dauphine.*— Pick three quarters of a pound of fine cherries, and boil them five or six times a with a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar ; take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar to la nappe ; then put ( in the cherries again, and leave them to S .cool. In the mean while roll out a pound 6 of brioche paste ; make your fritters as ii directed (see Fritters a la Dauphine), I and put five or six cherries in each. Fry j them of a nice colour : glaze, and serve i them quickly. Cherry Gateau, d la Parisienne.*— E Take the stones and stalks from apound f and a half of sweet cherries, and having i:i ) CUE mixed them with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of powder-sugar, finish the Gateau as directed (see 6'«fea« Parisienne of Apples). To make this Gateau of currants, the same quantity of fruit is necess.ary; the seeds of the latter must be removed. Cherry Ice.*—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with ii little water, and half a pound of sugar. When they have boiled, pass tliem through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful of the kernels, put them in a basin with the juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a pound of sugar mi petit lisse, and strain on them the lemon- juice and kernels ; mix the whole to- gether, and put it a saboticre, with pounded ice. Work the cherries up with it well, until it has set, then place it in glasses. Cherry Ice Cream.— Take half a pound of preserved cherries, pound them, stones and all; put them into a basin, with one gill of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Cherry ,/urn. — Having stoned and boiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise them, and let the juice run from them; then boil together half a pound of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put the cherries into these whilst they are boiling, and strew on them three quarters ot a pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put it into pots. When cold put on brandy papers. Cherry Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe cherries ; mix them witii a quarter of a pound of red currants, from which the seeds have been extracted; express the juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with three quarters of a pound ofclaii fied sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the same as Barberry jelly. Cherry Jelly.— Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark-red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin; pound the kernels; and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tamr my. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting in first half a pot of cur- rant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly, the lemon juice; mix these together well; then having hoiled and skimmed a pint of thick clarified sugar and isin- glass;, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c. over them; run it through till quite clear. If not stiflici- ently sweet, add more sugar, if the con- trary, add more lemon juice. Wet the