443 ) SAL SAL and a sheet of paper over it; as soon as it begins to boil, set it by the side of tlie fire to simmer gently till done ; take out the pack-thread without breaking the salmon. Serve it on a fish-plate with lobster-sauce in a boat._ Salmon,ilo/ferf in /Vine.—Season with pepper and salt, some slices of bacon, fat and lean together, a pound of veal cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done, then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and sweet marjorum, picked from the stalks ; let them stew gently, and while they_ are doing, cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the slices across, and stew them in a saucepan, with some rich gravy ; when they are done enough, add a quar- ter of a pint of essence of ham ; take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce poured over. Salmon, BrorVe,7.—Season some slices cut about an inch in thickness, with pepper and salt; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with an- chovy sauce. Salmon Broiled Twice.—Sieep some slices of salmon in a mixture of lemon- juice, sweet oil, salt, and coarse pepper, broil till, half done; then dip them in some butter and stock, mixed with pars- ley and young onions, shred ; finish broil- ing, and serve with a little lemon-juice and bread-crumbs, grated very fine, strewed over. Salmon, Co/tore(7.—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash, and rvipe it, then rub it well inside and out to season it very high, with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together. Then roil it light and bind it; put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it; add bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quick, and pour over it when cold. Serve with fennel. Salmon, Crimped.—When the salmon is scaled and gutted, rut off the head and tail, and cut the body through into slices an inch and a half thick, throw them into a large pan of pump water; when they are all put in, sprinkle n handful of bay-salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish ; set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, but do not split the head; put in some salt; when they have boiled ten minutes, skim the water very clean, and put in the slices ; when they are sufficiently boiled, take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of a dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve another time. Salmo.v, Croquettes of.*— Boil your salmon in a court-bouillon., and when cold, prepare them in the same manner as croquettes saltcod. (See thatarticle.) S.ALMON, Dried.—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and the roe. Scale it, and rub the whole with common salt, and hang it to di-ain for twenty-four hours. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar ; mix these well, and rub into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish for two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, es- pecially the bit next the head. Salmon, Dried, to Dress.—Pull some dried salmon into flakes; have ready some eggs boiled hard and chopped large; put the salmon and the egg into half a pint of thin cream, and three ounces of imtter, rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it, and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of n dish, and pour the above into it. Salmon, Dried, to Dress.—Lay it in soak for two or three hours, then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. Salmon, Glace au Maigre.*—Empty and clean a good-sized salmon, and lard it with anchovies and eels; open the fish, take out the bone, and fill it with a farce composed of tench, perch, &c. minced, and mixed with artichoke-bottoms, truf- fles, morels, &c. also minced, and sweet herbs, kneaded together with fresh but- ter. Tie tip the salmon, and put it into a saucepan with eels, cray-fish, carp- roes, truffles, &c. moistened with equal quantities of maigre broth and white wine; stew this until the fish is tender and well-flavoured ; then serve it, with its liquor, reduced to the proper consist- ence for sauce.