( 123 ) C E D C E D thfi rind of n cedrat on a pioop of sugar weigliing ten ounces, scrape oil’ the sur. face, and rasp again as usual; infuse this sugar in boiling milk; cover and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it gra- dually with ten yolks, one whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain, and linish as usual. See Cream uu Bain Marie. Cedrats, Distilled Cream of.*—Infuse the rinds of four very fine cedrats in three quarts of the best tirandy, and a pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in the bain marie. If tlie brandy is of the proper strength, the three quarts will yield two of the liquor ; to which put three pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints and a half of water; pass the whole through a straining bag, or filter it through pa- per. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of a pound and a half more sugar, and half a pint of water. Cedkat Creamd laFran^oisc.*—Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on ten ounces of sugar ; which mix with the yolks of eight eggs, a gram of salt; add gradually five glasses of nearly boiling milk, stirring it constantly. The remainder of the operation is the same as in muking Caeao Cream d la Franfoise. Cedrat Cream Futissiere.*—Rasp the rind of a cedrat in the usual way, on a quarter of a pound of sugar; crush with tlie latter an equal weiglit of sweet and six bitter macaroons; add this mixture to the cream^ prepared as di- rected. See Cream Patissiere. Cedrats, Dried, fVhole or in Qttar- iers. — Take some preserved cedrats either whole or in quarters, wash fcliem in a little warm water ; boil some syrup in another pan, till it comes to blow; take a large spoon, and rub it well to the aides of the pan till it comes white ; dip your cedrats in, take them out and put them on wires over another pan ; let them drain well, tlien put them into a hot stove on the wires for one day, till the candy dries all round them; when well dried, put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of cedrats. Cedrat Zeste, Fromage Davarois of.* —Take half a pound of lump sugar, rasp on it the zeste of cedrat, and ns the sur- lace of the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off, and rasp again; dissolve the sugar in two glasses of nearly boil- ing milk; cover it, and when nearly cold, mix with it six drachms of clarified isin- glass, then strain, and place it in a bol in ice ; and when it begins to take, add to it the cream, and finish as Fromuge Bavarois. Cedrat [Preserved) <}»7wises.*—Add to the usual ingredients (see Genoise), the peel of a cedrat, grated on the sugar used; when glazed, strew over them a quarter of a pound of preserved cedrat, cut small; dry them a minute or two in the oven. Cedrat Ices.—Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper, on the piece of loaf sugar, scrap- ing with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat; wlien you have thus taken off the outer rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar, take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quan- tity of juice of lemon you think requi- site for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water; pass the whole through a sieve, then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. Cedrat Ice Cream. — Take two large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put it into a bason,squeeze in three lemons, and add one pint of cream; be careful that all the essence is melted ; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it accord- ing to custom. Cedrat fVater Ice.—Take four ounces of essence of cedrat, put it into a bason, and add to it the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, and half a pint of water; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich, and if you would liave it in the shape of the cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper before you put it in the ice. Cedrats Zesies, Jelly of.* — Tal:e three quarters of a pound of Jump sugar, grate on it the zestesoi two cedrats. an(^ as the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off with a knife, and grate again, and so on until all the zeste is gone; dissolve the scraped sugar in twoglasses of water, and, with the juice of four lemons. pa.ss it through a jelly hag. Clarify the remain- der of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small preserving pan ; boil it to caramel height, to colour the jelly ; mix this, the fruit, the syrup, and an ounce of isinglass togctlier, and finish in the usual way. Cedrats IFbole, Liquid.—Get the oe- drats at the Italian warehnn-se ; make a hole through the middle of them at the thick end; put them in a larae pre- serving pan with water, and boil them one hour and a half; tlier. drain all the water from them; set them up end- ways, to drain the water out of the