APP APP (16) fine su(?ar all over. Set them in a quick oven and bake them half an liour. Vv hen served, strew fine sugar all over the dish. Appi.es, (Black-cap o/).—Pare them, lay them in your pan, strew a few cloves over them, a little lemon-peel cut very small, two or three blades of cinnamon, and some coarse sugar; cover tlie pan with brown paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and let it stand till the oven is cold. Apples, to bake whole.—Put some sound and well chosen apples into a pan, with a small proportion of cloves, a little lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a glass or more of red wine, according to the quantity of fruit; put them into a quick oven, and bake them at least one hour. The sugar to be limited according to the quality of the apples. Apples a%i henrre., with Apple Jelly.*— Take out the cores and turn fifteen small red apples, and boil them twice in six ounces of^.clarified sugar. Then peel twelve rerineting apples, and cut them into quarters. Havingreduced the syrup to a souffld, put in your renneting apples, with two ounces of lukewarm butter, and one-fourth of a pot of apiicotmarmalade. Mix the whole well together, and boil them the same as in the receipt for apples au beurre d la minute. Whilst they are boiling, take your small red apples, and cut each of them in half; then put them into a mould (in the form of a dome,) lightly buttered, afterwards filling up the mould with the apples which were boiled in the butter ; you then.turn your mould on a dish, after- wardscarefully removing it. Then stick in the half of each of your small red apples, a fine cherry, or a preserved ver- .iuice seed, and mask your entremet with jelly made with Rouen apples. Then serve. Apples au beurre with Cream.*— Peel, take out the cores, and cut into quarters, tn enty renneting apples ; boil ten of them with sugar, &c. the same as in the receipt of apples au beurre d la minute, adding two spoonsful ol fine su- gar, two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, and three of butter, made lukewarm. Make the remaining ten apples into mar- malade, adding two ounces of fine sugar, and two spoonsful of apricot marmalade ; then put the apples which were boiled with the butter in a mould, (the form of a dome,) arranging them in such a man- ner as to leave a space all up the centre of your mould ; then mask them \vith your marmalade, which should be first strained through a sieve, tlien fill up the space which you have lelt in the mould with any sort of boiling cream pitissHre you please. Place a dish on your mould turn it quickly over, and take it off with great care; then lightly mask your apples with a little cream, the same as what you put into your mould. Strew over the whole some crushed macaroons. Apples au beurre, with Maearoons.*— This entremet is made exactly the same as apples au beurre with apple jelly, only instead of masking with apple jelly, you must mask with apricot marmalade, and strew yom entremet a.\\ over with macca- roons cut extremely small. Apples au beurre d la minute.*—Peel four-and-twetity renneting apples, and cut them into quarters, and toss them up in a stew-pan with six ounces of sugar in powder, (over which should be grated the zest of an orange,j four ounces of lukewarm butter, and the fourth of a pot of marmalade. Then place your stew-pan upon the stove; put fire on the lid. VVhen the apples, are done pour them out upon a dish ; pick out the best quar- ter and put them into a buttered mould, six inches in diameter and four in height. Then pour in the rest of the apple with therestof the ingredients. Placeadisb on your mould, turn it quickly over, and carefully remove it; then mask the surface of your apples with apricot or quince marmalade, or apple or currant jelly, and serve. This dish should be executed as quickly as possible, to prevent the apples from getting old. When you serve this entremet strew either some pistachio nuts chopped small, or dry currants mixed with pounded sugar, over it. Pears may be prepared in the same manner. Ai'Ple Cake.*—Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade, with the zeste of a lemon and a little cin- namon, and pass them through a bolting; put them into a stew-pan, with a spoon- ful of potatoe flour, half a pound of su- gar, and two ounces of butter: dry it over the fire, and when cold add to_ it six eggs, stir them well in, and having buttered a mould, pour your preparation into it, and bake it in aslowoven ; when done, turn it in a dish and serve it. Apples, Charlotte of.* (See Charlotte.) Apple Cheesecakes.* Pare, ,core, and boil twelve apples with sufficient water to mash them ; beat them very smooth, add six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweetened with powder sugar, beat it in with the apples. Bake in a puflTcrust and serve open. Apples, Compote.*—Cut some applee in half, core them, prick the skins with