) A L M A L M ( 6 andtlien bake them ill a cool oven. AVlien | of a reddisii brown they are done and may he served. AcMO.NDFfMMweriy.—Boil threeounces of hartsiiorn in two quarts of spring water ; let it simmer six or seven hours till half the water is consumed ; strain it through a sieve ; he.at lialf a pound of al- monds very fine, witli aciuantiiy of orange ilower water ; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it wiihthe rest of the jelly, stirring it till it is a little more than blood warm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick in almonds cut small. Almond Fraze.—Blanch a' pound of jordan almoiius, and steep them in a pint of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; take out the almonds and pound themfine in a marble mortar; then mix them again in the cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan, let it be hot and poor it in, stirring it in the pan till they are of a sufficient consistence; and when enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over it, and serve it up. Almond Fritters.—Pound half apound of sweet almonds, and six or eight bitter ones, orange flowers, chopped lemon- peel, sugar in proportion, a handful of flour, and two or three whites of eggs; pound all together some time, adding a few drops of water, or more whitesofeggs, to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls ; roll them in flour to fry as forcemeat balls; strevv a little fine sugar- powder upon them when reaily to set ve. Aljionds {Bitter) Fromage Bavarois o/.*—Peel, wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and one ounce of hi tteralmonds, Ijonnd them to a paste, moistening w'ith two spoonsful of water. Putthem intoan earthen pan, with two glasses of nearly' boiling milk, in which eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; let this stand an hour, then strain it through a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of isin- glass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice, and when it begins to set, add some whipped cream; pour it into a mould wliich has been kept in ice, put it in ice again for half .an hour, and then take the jremage from the mould. Almond Garlands.—T.ake half a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of two or three eugs, some powdered cinnamon and a little flour, knead them into a paste, and ndl them into the form of •sausages with your hand on the table, first strewing the table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; so tluu they mriy adliere to the sausages, which ouuht to be about the size of your finger; then form them into rings or garlands of what size you please, fixing the ends together with water; place them on paper, and bake them in a quick oven until they are of a clear brown colour. Al.mond {Biller) petite gdieaux roy- aux.*—Pound six drachtns of bitter al- monds, strain them through a sieve, and mix them in an earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir these with a silver spoon for a few minutes. Take three-quarters of a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut outof it thirty oval cakes (two inches .aiid a half long by two and a quarter wide) pointed at the ends; put on each a quarter of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with the blade ofa knife spread it equally over the surface for about the eighth of an inch, and then let them stand for half an hour before you put them into the oven, which must lie moderate. If you bake them immediately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles and shrivels up, which spoils their appearance, as they ought to be ([uite smooth and even; the cakes also require considerable care in the baking ; they should be slightly co- loured on the top and the lower part red- dish. Almond {Bitter) Gennises.*—Blanch two ounces four dr.aclims of sweet, and two ounces and .a half of bitter almonds, pound them to a paste and then putthem into the following preparation : blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earthen pan with six ounces ol flour, the same of powder-sugar, six yolks and twu whole eggs, a spoonful ol brandy and a grain of salt. Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six ounces of butter slightly warmed but not melted ; work the butter well into the paste for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, or paper cases, about nine or ten inches square, pour in yc.irpreparation, smooth it with the blade of a knife and then put them to hake in a moderate oven, first strewing on tliem four ounces of sweet almonds minced and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, and .a little white, of egg. When done, rut them into all possible forms, then replace them in the oven to dry; when brittle. Lake them out. let tiiem cool, and decor.atc them to your fancy. Aljiond {Brovii) Gingerbread.—Beat a quarter of .i pound of blanched almonds with thin gum-w.ater, a few dropsollcmon jiiitc, a little powdereti cinnamon, and some gitiger finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten .and smooth it well, roll it out thin, add cut