BAR (40 BAR with a carrot and a crust of bread, till reduced to half; tlien strain it oil and put it into the pot again with half a pound of barley, four or five heads of celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a little chojjped parsley, and a fewmarigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or large fowl and put it into the pot, boil it till the broth is quite good. Season with salt, take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. The fowl may be omitted. Barlev Crmw.—Boil a small quantity of pearl barley in milk and water, till tender, strain oft' the liquor, and put the barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. Then take the whites of five eggs and the yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of Hour, and two of orange flower water. Take the cream from the fire, mix the eggs in by degrees, and set it over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or glasses for use. Barley, Gruel—Take: three ounces of pearl barley, of which make a quart of barley-water; if it be not white, shift it once or twice ; put in two ounces of cur- rants clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little; then put in the yolks of three eggs well beaten, half a pint of white wine, and of new thick cream half a pint, and lemon peel; then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; stir it gently over the tire, until it is thick as cream. Barley Posset.—Boil a pound of French barley in three quarts of milk ; when boiled enough, put in three quarts of cream, some cinnamon and mace, sweeten it with sugar ; let it stand until it is but just warm, then put in a quart of white wine, frotli it up; to be eaten either with a spoon, or press out the liquor to drink. Barley Pudding.*—Take a pound of pearl barley well washed, three quarts of new milk,one quartof cream,and half a pound of double refined sugar, a grated nutmeg, and some salt; mix them well together, then put them into a deep pan, andbake it; then takeitoutof the oven, and put into it six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef marrow, and a quarter of a pound of grated bread ; mix all well together; then put it into another pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. Barley (French) Pudding.—Put to a quart of cream, six eggs well beaten, lialf the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange flower water, or rose water, and a pound of melted butter; then put in six handfuls of French barley that has previously been boiled tender in milk, butter a dish, and put it in. ft will take as long baking as a venison pasty. Brrley (Peart) Puddinf(. Get a pound of pearl barley, wasli it clean, put to it three quarts of new milk, and half a pound of double refined sugar, a nut- meg grated ; then put it into a deep pan, and bake it. Take it out of the oven, heat up six eggs, mix all well together, butler a dish, pour it in, hake it again an hour, and it will be excellent. Barley Soup.—Wash your barley well in warm water, then boil it in good broth slowly, adding a little butter ; give it substance with either Cray fish cullis « la Reine, or any other, or without any, if you like it better plain. Barley Sugar.*—Clarify two pounds of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, in a deep copper vessel with a lip; pour it in straight lines about an inch thick, on a marble slab previously rubbed with butter. Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of sugar and twist it; when cold cut it into proper lengths and put them by in glasses. They must be kept in a dry place. Barley Sugar Drops.—Proceed as for barley sugar. Have ready a large sheet of white paper, covered with a smooth layer of sifted sugar. Pour out the boiled sugar in drops the size of a shilling ; when cold, fold them separately in paper: a few drops of the essence of ginger or lemon will improve the flavour. Barley Syrup.—Make of a pound of barley three quarts of barley water; strain out the barley, and put to the water a handful of scabious, tormentil, hyssop, agrimony.horehound, maiden hair sanicle,betony,burage.bugloss,rosemary, marigolds, sage, violets and cowslips, of each a pint, when picked ; a pound of sun raisins stoned, half a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of dates stoned ; half a poundof green liquorice,carraway,fennel and aniseed, of each one ounce, harts- horn, ivy, elecampane roots, of each an ounce ; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couchgr.ass, polipodium,and oak parsley, of each a handlul ; clean, bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water, cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours ; then strain and pressoutthejuice,andlet it stand twen- ty-four hours ; when clear, add to it rose- water and hyssop, half a pint of each, and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a drachm of sallron, three pints of the best honey, and as many pounds of sugar as quarts of liquor, lioil this an hour and a half, keeping it clean .scummed, then bottle it, cork it well, and put by for use. Barley //nfer.—Put a quarter of a poutid of pearl barley into two quarts of