( 237 ) FIG FEN fifteen or twenty minutes loriger, put five drachms of spiced salt, grated nut- meg, and the yolksof two eggs,at first, and I in five minutes, two more yolks, atable- I' spoonful of oelyuie, pounding continu- ally, at least five minutes after all the ingredients are put in. Take a small piece ofthis/aiw, and form it intoa ball or quenelle, and throw it into some broth; when it has boiled a minute, take it out, and if it be tolerably firm and smooth, it is properly done; but if too firm, add more veloute; if not suffi- ciently so, the yolk of another egg. FAUN.—Faun should be dressed al- most as soon as it is killed. W hen very young they should be trussed, stufl'ed, and spitted in the same manner as a hare. But they are better eating, when of the size of house-lamb, and are then roasted in quarters; the hind ' quarter is considered the best. They must he done by a very quick fire, and ‘ either basted all the time they are roast- I ing, or be covered with slices of fat [ bacon ; when done, baste it with butter, • and dredge it with a little salt and flour, till you get a nice froth upon it. FAUfJONNE.*—This soup is cora- ; posed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions. > celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all i cut in dice, except the lettuce and sor- rel, which must be bruised ; do up the roots in a little butter; then put in the lettuce, herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let it boil over a I gentle fire for an hour or more, if neces- ; sary; then soak your bread in the usual way, and pour the faubonne over it. Faun, Saddle of.—Well lard it, and put it into a very large vessel with salt, pepper, and onions cut into slices, par- sley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking great care to turn it frequently on every side; then roast it, and serve with a , poivrade under it. Mind tliat the fillets and both legs must be larded. FENNEL {Pickled). — Take some I spring water, and when it boils put in I the fennel tied in hunches, with some ! salt; do not let it boil, but when it is of • I a fine green, dry it on a cloth ; when it i i is cold, put it in a glass, with some nut- t, meg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar, 1 and put a hit of green fennel at the top; I cover it the same as all other pickles, with a bladder and leather. Fen.vel Sauce.—Boil a bunch of fen- i nel and parsley; chop it small, and stir 1 it into melted butter. I Fennel Sauce.— Slice four or five > I anions, and soak them in two spoonsful 31 of oil, two of cullis, and two of white I wine, with two cloves of garlick ; sim- mer it for an hour, skim off the fat, and sift the sauce in a sieve; then add chop- ped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper and salt; boil a moment before using it. Fennel Nskcc.—Pick green fennel, mint, and parsley, a little of each ; wash them clean, and boil them till tender, drain and press them, chop them tine, add melted butter, and serve up the sauce immediately, for if the herbs are mixed any length of time before it is served up to table they will be disco- loured. Parsley becomes equally dis- coloured from the same cause. If approved, there may be added the pulp of green gooseberries rubbed through a hair sieve, and a little sifted sugar. Fennel Sauce.* — Take as many branches of green fennel as you may re- quire ; pick and wash it in the same manner as parsley, chop it very small, scald, and then lay it on a sieve to cool. Put two spoonsful of veloute, and the same of butter sauce, into a saucepan ; make them quite hot, take care to stir it well, that they may be properly mixed; rub the fennel in a little butter, and then throw it into the sauce ; mix it in thoroughly, and season it with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg. Fennel {Cooling fVatei' of). — This is done simply, by steeping some fennel in hot water, till it has the taste of the herb sufliciently; add what sugar you think proper, and keep it in a cool place a good while before using; the same is done with any other kind of herb, and in general with all sorts of fruit used in confectionary; also with the syrups of liquid preserves, mixing some of the liquor with water and sugar, sufficient to make it palatable. You may either ice it or not, according as you think proper. FIELDFARES, Roasted. — AVhen they are picked and drawn, lard them with bacon, putapaper round them,and lay them at a distance from the fire; when they are nearly done, take off the paper, and let them finish, to be of a nice brown: then serve with gravy or melted buttei' for sauce. FIGS, to keep all the Year fit for f7*e.—-Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their own leaves be- tween them ; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick of the honey), and piour it warm over the figs ; then stop the .iar very close. When you take out the figs for use, soak them for two hours in warm water. _ Figs, Preserved.*—"Vvike. some half ripe figs, prick themncar the stalks,and