JON J EL ( 296 ) glasses, .and run each colour as thick as a fiiiKer, eacli colour being thoroughly cold before another is poured on, which must be only lukewarm, or they will mix together. Red may be made with cochi- neal, green with spinachj yellow with saf- fron, blue with syrup of violets, and white with thick cream: the plain jelly itself may be used as a colour. Jellv Ruhanee.*—Prepare nine yolks of eggs as directed for jelly oi fromage- bavarois, but without the orange-flower ; when strained, add an ounce and half of clarified isinglass, and divide your pre- paration into four parts, in one of which put an infusion of chocolate; to the second, add an infusion of orange-flow- ers ; to the third some spinach-juice and bitter macaroons crushed; and put to the fourth some blancmange. Place your mould in ice, as much of each of these portions alternately as will occupy an inch in depth ; taking care that every layer is set before you pour on another. Jelly, Russian.*—Clarify three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of isinglass, put them together into an earthen pan, which place on ice; add to it the juice of two lemons, and four small glasses of kirschwasers; then take a whisk and beat it up over the ice till it becomes as white as beaten egg; the moment it gets firm, put it into a mould, and finish the jelly in the usual way. Jelly, Savoury, to put over Cold Pies. —It should be made either of a small bare knuckle of leg, or shoulder, of veal, or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the pie is made of fowl, or rabbits, the car- casses, necks, or heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cowheel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, with a slice of h.-im, or bacon, a bundle of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion, or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea- spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same quantity of whole pepper, and three pints of water, into a stew'pan that shuts very close. When it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer slowly till quite strong; then strain it, and when cold, take off'all the fat you possibly can with <1 spoon; and then, to remove every p.arli- cle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. If, when it is cold, it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, whicii should be previously dipped in hot water, to pre- vent waste. Jelly Savoury.—Take all the scum off from the cold liqruor that either poultry- or meat has been braised in, or some veal stock, and make it warm; strain it through asieve into a stewpan, and season it to the palate with salt, lemon-pickle, Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain vinegar; add enough of dissolved isin- glass to make it of a proper stiffhese. whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a small quantity of the yolks and shells, and just colour it; set it over the fire, and let it boil, then simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a jelly bag several times, till bright and fine. Jelly /fVtfpperf.*—Make a jelly Prin- tanniere, and pour about a quarter of it into a mould, and ice it, as therein di- rected ; then take the mould, .and place a basin in its stead, in which put thfr re- mainder of the jelly, and whip it with a whisk, as you would eggs, over the jelly, until the globules are no bigger than pins’ heads; pour it into the mould, and re- place it on the ice for three quarters of an hour, after which turn it out as usual. JESSAMINE to Candy. * — Boil a pound of clarified sugar to fort per le. and when about half cold throw in two hands- ful of jessamine flowers, and place them on hot ashes for two hours, that the flowers may dry well; then drain them on a sieve from the sugar, and have ready some more, sifted, in wnich put the jessamine, rubbing them well with your hands; place them again on a sieve, and set them in a stove till next day; after which sift the flowers; take three pounds of clarified sugar, boil it to souffle, have a proper mould ready, pour the sugar into it, and pul the flowers on it, push them down lightly with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the su- gar; place the mould in a moderate stove or oven for five day-s, then drain off the syrup; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. JOHN DOREY Boiled.—Set it over the fire in cold spring-water; treat it exactly the same as turbot, and serve it with lobster sauce in a boat. John Dorey d la Crime.—Rub your fish over with lemon, rover it with paper, and put it into a kettle, with half milk and half water, a bit of butler, salt, and a lemon squeezed in, set jt on the fire, and let it simmer gently till done; take it up, and drain it from the liquor, lay it on a dish, and pour a good cream sauce all over it. 11 will be much improved by mushnioms. JONQUILS, Candy (f.* — These flowers are candied precisely in the same w,ay as the jessamine. Jonquils fVhole.*—Take some double jonquils, cut the stalks about a quarter of an inch from the flowers; give them