PIG 404 PIG bundle of berbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper and salt. In the mean time lard three or lour sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scal- lions ; as soon as they are done, skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with itj then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as fol- lows : put a little consomme into the pan with the glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom and sides of the. pan, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite ; squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. Pigeons {Chartreuse of).*—Take a number of carrots and turnips, some of which cut into pieces the size of your linger, some into bits only an inch long, and the remainder (and they ought to be the largest) into farthings, blanch all in a little salt and water; then drain and cook them in some mtsomwie, blanch also some French beans, young peas, let- tuces or cabbages ; when done, press out the water from the latter, drain the rest, and let them cool; then take a circular mould, line it completely with a white paper, well buttered; on the bottom of this place a layer of the carrots and tur- nips (in farthings), the beans and peas, round the sides ot the mould ; place first, the other pieces of carrots and turnips, (properly intermixed^, then the lettuces or cabbages; in tbe centre of this put three pigeons' poeles, cut in pieces. Make a small macedoine with what vege- tables may remain from the above ; mix it with an ullemande,^nA having reduced it, pour it over the birds, so that it will fill up all the interstices and cover the whole with cabbages or lettuces ; keep it hot in the bain-marie ; do not turn it out till the moment it should be sent to table ; drain oH'the water, and glaze it. Pigeons in Chipolata.*—Having pre- pared and trussed your pigeons, place, them in a braising-pan between slices of bacon, with some veal, two carrots, three onions, two bay-leaves, cloves, parsley, scallions, thyme, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an hour; then drain and place them on a dish; mask with a chipolata. Pigeons en Compote.*—Truss and tie into proper form, three pigeons ; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaky bacon; pour on the. pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, scallions, a bay-leaf, mush- rooms, salt, and pepper, stir it well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done, put in some small onions, well picked, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish; garnish with the onions and bacon. Pigeons d la Conti.*—Make a farce with the white meat of fowl or game, bacon, and crumb of bread pounded to- gether, and mixed with yolks of eggs, stuft' your pigeons with this, truss, tie them in slices of bacon, and roast them gently ; lay toasts in the dripping-pan to receive what falls from them ; ssrve the birds on the toasts. Pigeons en Coguilles.*—Take three or four pigeons, put them into a deep dish with some lard, cover them close, and place the dish on hot ashes ; take some scollop-shells, line them with thin slices of bacon, and when the pigeons are done, put one in each of the shells, and cover them with puff-paste, put them into a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour. Pigeons d la Crapaudine.* — Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, cut them open from the end of the breast to the crop; but do not separate them; flatten the backs, season and broil them. Boil together a dessert-spoonful of shred shalots, three spoonslul of vinegar, half a glass of water, salt and pepper; pour this sauce over the broiled pigeons, and serve them. Pigeons d la Cettillere.*—Put a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt, and pepper, into a pan, in which give half a dozen pigeons a few turns; let them be browned, then put them into a stewpan between slice.s of bacon, with the above butter, &c. and some poelee. set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then drain and serve ihem with a cray-fish betiveen each over a green Hol- landaise. Pigeons d la Fiane.—Cut some pufl- paste into eight pieces, each of which press into a scallop-shell to take the form, and bake tliem; in the mean time braise four pigeons till about half done, then t.ake them out, dip each in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour; and the paste being baked, remove them from the shells, place the pigeons into these paste-shells, and cover every bird with another. Pigeons, Fricassee of.*—Cut sonic young pigeons into quarters, which blanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water, then dry them well, and give them a few turns in some melted butter. Add half a pint of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and when nearly done, half