( 69 ) B L A B L A bit of lemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds; garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by adding spinach-juice ; red, by a bit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand half an hour and strain it; yellow with saflron. BLA7ic-isA}iGE,Diailoii7isaua;Avelines.* —Pound and blanch six ounces of filbert nuts, and beat tliem up with three glasses of scalded cream; squeeze them through a napkin to extract as much milk as possible from your almonds; then gradually pour it upon two large spoons- ful of rice flour, and beat it vvell toge- ther, taking great care not to let it be lumpy, adding three ounces ol sugar and a very small quantity of salt; put it to turn over a moderate fire, and dry it for forty minutes until it becomes quite a stififthick paste; then put it on a dish and leave it to cooj; when cold, roll it into strips, cut tliem into small pieces about the size of a filbert, and as you cut them roll them into balls and lightly sprinkle them with flour. The whole being thus prepared, place some of them in a small cullender, and put the cullender into batter, so hot that the diablotins will immediately catch (this batter should Lave been standing on the stone for two hours), and become of a nice dark colour in almost an instant. Then take your cullender out of the batter, put your balls in a napkin, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve them on a very hot plate. Fry the remainder of your dia- blotins, serving them hot and hot. Blanc-mange Put a pintof cleared calPs-foot jelly into a stewpan ; mix with it the jfolks of six eggs, set it overafire,and whisktill it begins to boil; then set the pan in cold water, and stir the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it from curdling, and when it begins to thicken fill the moulds. Blanc-jiange d la Fran<;aise. — Blanch one pound of sweet, and a score oi bitter almonds: drain them on a sieve, and afterwards dry them, by rub- bing them in a napkin; pound them in a mortar, continually moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of water at a time, to prevent their oiling. When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them into a psn; then with a silver spoon, beat up your almonds gradually, with five glasses of filtered water; after this, spread a napkin over an oval disli, and put your almonds upon it; then gather up the corners of your napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the almonds; then put into this milk, twelve ounces of crystal- lized sugar, broken into small pieces ; when the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin ; and then add to it one ounce of clarified isinglass, rather warmer than hdtewarm; and when the whole_ is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould. Your mould should be previously put into ten pounds of pounded ice ; when your blanc- mange is ready to serve, (which will be in two hours after it has been put into the mould), you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Violet Jelly. Blanc-mange Fritters.*—Put a quar- ter of a pound of ground rice iiito a stewpan, mix wiili it two eggs, a pint of milk, and two ounces of sugar; let it boil two hours, stirring it frequently; when well thickened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange-flowers, shred, and a little salt: the whole being well mixed, spread it upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make them into balls, with your hands floured ; fry on lard, and when dark- coloured, sugar and serve. Blanc-mange Fritiers en Gimhlettes.* —Prepare tlie paste the same as for BluHC-mtinge Diablotins aux Avetines. When it is cold, cut it, and form it into your gimblelles; cut the pieces out from the middle with a paste-cutter, nearly two inches in diameter. Then mask these little rounds (which you have cut from the gimblelles) all over with crumb of bread, very finely grated ; this must be done with the greatest care, for fear of spoiling their shape. After having masked them in bread-crumbs, dip them in four eggs beaten up ; then drain them, and again mask them in bread-crumbs. In the same manner prepare the ghn- llettes, placing them upon plates; and when you wish to serve, fry them of a nice colour; then sprinkle them all over with sugar, and place your little rounds in the centre of a dish, and arrange your gimblelles I'own^i them. Blanc-jjanoe Friiters en Gimblelles, glazed loitii Utigar.* — Prepare your gimhlettes exactly the same as in the preceding receipt; and when you wish to serve them, fry them in butter as usual. Phen drain them, after which, glaze them in caramel sugar. You may if you like, as you take tliem out of tlie frying- pan, strew them over with pistachio nuts, cut very small, or dried orange flowers. Blanc-mange trilk — Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool for half au hour, skim, and pour it free fioiu