8K R scu ( m when tliorcuclily mixed, roll the prepa- ration into thick pieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage should be about the thickness of a man’s wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beef-steaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beef-steaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very close, and set it on a moderate fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours ; then take it oiT, and when cold, take out the sausages carefully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVOY Soup.—Cut into quarters and boil in a little water, five large savoys ; strain the water oft’ when they are cool, press them well to drain out all the water, then put them into as much beef-gravy as will cover them, cover them very close, and setthe saucepan on a moderate fire, and let it stew for two hours ; then set on the fire a large frying-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter; shake in some flour, and stir till it is brown ; peel a couple of onions, put them into the liiitter and stir it well about ; as soon as they are nicely coloured, add a quart of veal gravy, mix tliem well together; soak some crust of French rolls in the gravy in which the savoys are stewed, lay tliem in a tureen at a little distance from each other; then pour in the gravy and onions. SCOTCH Short Bread.*—two pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well; then mix with it a pound of powder-sugar, three ounces of candied citron and orange-peel cut into dice, and half a pound of carraway comfits; put half a pound of butter into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quite melted, mix it with the flour, &c.; the paste being nicely made, roll it out to the thickne.ss of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them on white paper, prick and bake them; they should be of a pale colour. Scotch Make a paste with some oatmeal and butter, form it into a dumpling, and nlace a haddock’s liver in the middle, well seasoned w'itli pepper and salt; it should be boiled in a cloth. SCUBAC.’*—Infuse two ounces of saf- fron, the zestes of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and a drachm of mace, in three gallons of brandy, for a week, keeping the vessel closely covered ; at the end of that time distil it. dissolve ten pounds of sugar in a gallon and a half of water, stir it into the liqueur, and then filter it. Your liqueur made as above, will be very white and dear. If, how- ever, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of sallroii to it; the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SEEDS (Strg'flret/).’*'—These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 'I'he best metliod of proceeding is as follows : place a small preserving-pan over a charcoal fire, on the side of nhich have a chafing dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse ; (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling); on the other side have some fine powder. Wlien so far prepared, put your seeds into the pan, and as soon as tliey begin to heat, pour over them a large spoonful or two of the syrup; stir them about, that all may be thorougldy saturated with it; then sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, still shaking the pan to make the seeds equally white. When dry, pour on some more syrup, then the powder, and continue this alter- nately until your seeds are sufficiently large ; then lay them on a sieve, keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottle.s. SERVELAS. — According to the number of servelas you intend making, take your quantity of fresh^lean pork, mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat, (also minced). Season with salt, pepper, spices, nutmeg, anise, and coriander ; fill your skins like sau- sages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke for three days. Then put them into a saucepan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley ; boil them in this for three hours; drain, and let them cool. Servelas of Marchpane.*—Take a pound of marchpane pa-te coloured red as for Marchpane Sausages, and three quarters of a pound of the same unco- loured ; cut both into small irregular pieces, mix them together, and put them into skins the same as the regular ser- velas; take particular care that the guts are well cleaned, perfecily dry, and tram- parent; press the pieces in close that they may be quite firm; and having cut them of the proper lengths, moisten your hands witli oil of almonds, and rub the servelas well with the palms, until they are quite smooth and shining. These servelas are of an excellent flavour, and will keep a long time. SHALOT Sh»/cc.’‘—T.-ike two spoons- ful of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, two spounsfiil of vinegar, two or three shalots cut fine, and a little salt; put