CHE ( 133 ) c f r E Judge of tlie ciuantity of flour, according to ihe quantity of clieeae, and die con- sistence you would have the paste. Cheese Plombiure,*—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet, and four bitter al- monds, beat them to a fine paste, which put into a pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it two pinches of crisped orange-flowers ; pour this cream on nine yolks of eggs, and three quar- ters of a pound of powder sugar; place it over a gentle fire, stirring it con- stantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil ; pass it through a bolting, and when cold put it in a sabotiere, and ice it; when about half set, add a small Chantilly cheese, then finisli icing it, and when wantea for table, lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish, lay tlie cheese on tliem like, a rock, drop apricot mar- malade over it, here and there, and serve it. Cheese Potted.—Beat three pounds of the best Cheshire cheese in a mortar, ■with half a pound of beat butter, a large glass of sack, near half an ounce of mace beaten and sifted; mix it well, pot it; pour Over it clarified butter. Cheese, Potted.—Add to a pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese three ounces of cold fresh butter, a little sifted mace, and a tea spoonful of mus- tard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it with clari- fied butter, and set the pots in a cold dry place. Cheese Pounded.—Take a pound of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese, cut it into thin bits; if the cheese is dry, add to it three ounces of fresh butter ; if it is toleraldy moist, two ounces of butter will be suffi- cient; pound and rub them well together in a morlar till it is quite smooth. Spread on bread, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper. You may, if you please, pound with it curry powder, ground spice, black pepper, cayenne, and a little made mustard ; and moisten with a glass of sherry. If pressed down hard in a jar, and covered with clarified butter, it vriil keep for several days in cool weather. Cheese to Preserve Sound.—Wash it in warm whey, wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you wish it_ to ripen, put it into a damp cellar, which will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity shoald be spread inside with butter, and the outside should be iviped to preserve it. To keep tliat which is in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapped round the , cheese when carried from table. ■ Cheese Puffs.—Beat in a mortar, half | a pint of cheese curd (stiained Irom the 1 wiiey) very fine, v.dth a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, leaving out two [ whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of |j this paste in very small round cakes, on p a tin plate. _ If the oven is hot, a quarter i| ofanhourwiil besufficientto bake them • ! serve them with pudding sauce. Cheese Jloasled, (to come up after' '• Dinner).— Grate three ounces of fat i, Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks i of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, | and three ounces of butter ; beat the i whole well in a mortar, with a dessert i spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and I pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into i proper pieces; lay the paste, as abov’e, j thick upon them, put them into a Dutch |J oven covered with a dish, till hot through, |i remove the dish, and let the cheese I brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. li Cheese, Sage. — Bruise the tops of || young red sage in a mortar, with some |j leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; .j mix it with the rennet in the milk, more u or less, according as you like for colour i and taste. When the curd is come, ; break it gently, and put it in with the • skimmer, till it is pressed two inches f above one vat. Press it eight or ten j hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cheese, Sage, wit A Figures.—Provide i* two cheese-vats of the same size, and set || the milk to turn in two vessels; one part || with rennet alone, and the other part i| with rennet and sage juice. These must ij be made as you would make two distinct il cheeses, ami put into the^ presses at the ii same time. When both these cheeses have || stood in the presses for half an hour. It take them out, and cut some square l| pieces, or long slips out of the plain If ciieese, and lay tiiem by on a plate ; ihen if cut the same number of pieces out of the !| sage cheese, of the same figure and size, i and immediately put the. pieces of the 1 sage cheese into the places that you rut , in the plain cheese, and the pieces llat i you took out of the plain cheese into the , places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cut out by a tin-plate, made into figures of several shapes, by which the pieces can he cut out so exactly, that tliey will fit without any trouble. When you have done this, put the cheeses in the press again, and finish like other cheese.®. The greatest care must be taken that the curd is very equally broken, and that both cheeses