VE A ( 480 ) V EA lour. Serve it with veal gravy. This joint ouglit to be partly dressed in good stock before it is put en surtout, Veal Chops d la Belle Vue.* — Lard half a dozen handsomely cut chops, with udder, truflles, and tongue d I’ecarlate, and then lay them in a stewpan on slices of bacon; cover them with the same; season them with pepper and salt, and add two carrots, two onions, (one with two cloves in it), and a hoiiquet f pour in a glass of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of conpmme ; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen after a short time, and leave the chops on for an hour. When done, press out all the moisture; as soon as they are cold, trim, glaze, and lay the chops on a dish, garnished with whites of eggs, truffles, and gherkins; pour into the middle of them a green mag?ionnaise, and put round the edge of the dish a border of jelly. VEAL Chops, Breaded. •— Take six or seven handsomely cut chops, season them well with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter; when suffi- ciently soaked, put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each sepa- rately in bread crumbs ; make the chops as round as you can with your hand, and lay them on a dish; when all are bread- ed, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly co- loured. Serve with clear gravy. Veal Chops d la Drue.*— Lard some well cut chops, with bacon and ham, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and spices, and brown them in some butter, then trim them nicely. Put into a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, the same of carrots, two cloves, a bay-leafj parsley, and scallions ; lay the chops in, cover them with bacon and a buttered paper: moisten with a ladleful of cotisomme, and stew them for an hour and a half, then drain, glaze, and serve them with any sauce you please. Veal Chops Fondantes. * — Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the sinews, and mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon; mix them together, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices ; spread this farce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop; bury a bone in every one, so that the end only will be seen ; cover these with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, and then fry them in lard; let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry,!or not, as you please. Veal Chops en Lorgnette.*—Beat the chops rather flat, and lard them with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, and spices; brown them in some butter, and trim them nicely. Cut seven pieces of tongue, d Vicariate, of the size of a half- crown, and nearly half an inch thick; cut some large onions into round slices the same thickness, but rather larger; take as much from the centre of the lat- ter, as the tongue will fill up; make as many of these as you have chops, upon which place them ; then stew the chops as for la Drue. When done, glaze tue chops and the tongue, but not the onion, and dish them ; reduce the sauce with a iittle espagnole, and pour it into the dish with them. Veal Chops en Papillotes.*—Cat and trim your chops as usual; and put them into a tossing-pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper; set them on the fire, and let them remain till nearly done; then place them on a dish, and pour the but ter, with some sweet herbs, over them. Take as many pieces of paper as you have chops, (each sufficiently large to contain a chop), oil them well, lay on every on e a thin slice of bacon, and (when cold) a chop with the herbs on both sides, then another thin slice of bacon ; fold -these up in the paper as close as possible; make the ends quite secure to prevent even the butter from escaping, and broil them over a slow fire, that they may be thoroughly done, and the paper not burnt. Serve with a clear gravy. Veal Chops Sautees.*—Take seven handsome veal chops, trim,and lay them in a tossing-pan, previously sprinkled with pepper and salt; strew over the chops, also, pepper, salt, par.-ley, and shalots, shred very small; pour half a pound of melted butter over them, and set the pan on a fierce fire; turn the chops when one side is done ; be careful not to make them too deep a colour; if you find they brown too quickly, lessen your fire. When done, arrange them neatly on a dish; put four ladiesful of espagnole, and a bit of glaze into the pan, stir It round, and pour the whole over the chops, and serve. Veal Chops, d la St. Carat.*—Cut some tongue, d I’ecarlate, into moderate sized lardons; grate a little bacon, and warm it in a stewpan ; add the lardons, with pepper, and nutmeg; toss them up in this, and lard some veal chops quite through with them when cold. Brown the chops in a little butter, and then trim them. Put into a stewpan a few rashers of bacon, cuttings of the tongue, slices of ham, and a little basil; lay in the chops, cover them with b.acon, car- rots, or onions sliced, and two glasses of consommi, or stock; cover the saucepan ; put fire on the lid, and let them stew for two hours. When done, drain and glaze them; strain the sauce, and with four