(34) AUS ASP water, then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two nutmega, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them. Cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week, then boil the pickle; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time: when cold, cover the jar close. Asparagus Ragout.—and clean some asparagus, use the prime part only; wash a head or two of endive, and a lettuce ; cut them small; fry altogether till nearly dry in butter with a little shal- lot ; shake in some flour, stir them about, put in some cullis pepper and salt; stew all till the sauce is thick enough: gar- nish with a few of the asparagus heads plain boiled. Asparagus Saf/arf.—Scale and cut oil' the heads of large asparagus; boil them till nearly done; strain and put them into very cold water for five minutes, Md drain thcrn dry, afterwards lay them in rows on a dish ; garnish with slices of lemon, and dressing as other sallads. Asparagus Soup with Gree7i Pease.— Make a good soup of roots, and, when strained, boil a pint of green pease in part of the liquor. Choose some middling sized asparagus; cut them in pieces about three inches long, blanch them in boiling water, and then throw them into cold water ; drain and tie them in small bun- dles ; split the tips and boil them with the pease ; when done make a piirie of thern, and mix it with the root soup, and gimnish with the asparagus. Good meat broth may be used instead of the root soup. ASPICK.*—Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if they will not make your jelly still' enough, add two calf’s feet, or some swards of bacon rasped ; put them into a saucepan with a pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four eJoves, two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain of! the liquor or con- sommt. Break four eggs into a stcwpnn, and put to them the consummi when cold, tlie juice of two lemons, and two spoons- ful of tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when it does so, remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour: then pass it through a wet napkin doubled. If tlie jelly is not suf- ficiently clear, clarify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, alwut half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspick mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, pour in another half inch of thejelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish, therr put either calf’s brains, breasts of fowl, veal-sweetbreads, cock’s-combs, kidneys, fat-livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal and smooth as possible, then fill up your mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. When wanted, dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top and turn it over. A&vick (clear).*—Put a little mirepois, a glass of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and a handful of tarragon into a sauce- pan, boil them to a jelly, and then dilute it with two ladiesful of fowl consommi: set it by the side of the stove, take on the fat; clarify it with an egg and a little cold water, and pass it through a double napkin. Put the aspick in a bain-marie. Serve it with blanched tar- ragon leaves cut in lozenges. It is used as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, &c. Aspicko/ Chickens’breasts.*—Toss np eight breasts of chickens, seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put four ladiesful of oelouii, and four spoonsful of jelly, into a stewpan, and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little shred parsley, a bit of butter the size of an egg; mix them all together well, and pour it over the chickens; when cold put them in the aspick mould in layers, with cock’s- combs,kidneys,fillets ofchickens dressed like the breasts, and put in cold; dis- solve your jelly, fill up the mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual. Aspick (little) d la worferwe.*—Have ready eight small timbale moulds, two inches and a half in diameter, and three high; fill and decorate them as the large aspick. Turn them out, and place one in the centre of your dish, six round it, and the eighth on that which stands in the centre. Garnish with a border of jelly, or coloured butter. Aspick Sauce.—Infuse chervil, tar- ragon, burnet, garden cress, and mint, in some cullis for about an liour; then strain, and add to it asiioonful of vinegar, garlic, pepper, and salt. Serve itcold in a sauce boat. AUSTRI.^X Soi/p.—Cutalargechickcn in pieces; fry it in butter with sweet lierhs; boil it in good broth, and then roll itincrumbsofbreadandParmesancheese;