BEE BEE ) ( JO moment, then braze tliem with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a latrgot of parsley, chibbol, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves, one of garlick, whole pepper, and salt, sliced onions, and roots; when done, take the bottom of the braze, which you strain in a sieve, and skim the fat very clean otl'; then add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little scalded chervil, finely chopped, and a lemon squeeze, or a little vinegar; serve this sauce upon the gristles. When thus brazed, you may serve upon them what ragout you please; you may also serve with them cabbage and sausages, first brazed about an hour with the gristles. They may be served as fricandeaux, ■with any sort of stewed greens; or you may make them in the manner of pick- led pork, if you will pot some of them. You may preserve them a long while by simmering them some time in fresh hog’s lard, then placing them close in an earthen pan, and pouting the lard upon them till the meat is covered ; when it is cold, cover the pot, and keep it in a ODol place. Beef Hams.—Take a fat leg of beef, rub it well with saltpetre and salt pru- nella, beat fine; then take an ounce of bay salt well dried, an ounce of saltpetre, beat fine, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt; rub this pickle well in every day for a month, then roll it in bran or saw-dust, and hang it in wood smoke, or burn horse-litter under it for ten days or a fortnight; hang it in a dry place near the chimney, for a week, it will then keep very well, covered over with bi-an. Any other piece of beef may be done in the same pickle. Beef (Hashed).*—Take three or four onions, chop them very fine, and put them into a steiv pan, with apiece of but- ter and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till nearly done and well browned ; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some suit and coar.-e pepper; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce remains ; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the fl.avour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of mus- tard and a little vinegar. Beef Hashed.—Cut some of the under- done pai t of the beef, in slices, with some (jf the fat, put it into a small stewpan. with some onion or shalot, (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, .and salt: boil It till the onion is quite soil, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the hash. Do not let it boil; have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion or raw shalot. You may add a spoonful of walnut liquor or catsup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a se- cond time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beet Heart.—Wash it carefully; stulT it the same as you would a hai e; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Beef Heart, a la Poivrade.—Cut a beef heart into slices, and let it seak some days, as you would a larded fillet of beef; when you wuh to dress it broil it, and dish up on a poivrade sauce. Beef (Hung.)—Put a rib of beef into a strong brine of bay salt, salt-petre, and spring water, for nine days, then hang it up in a chimney where wood or saw-dust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the outside with blood two or three times to make it look black, and when dry enough, boil it for use. Beef (Hang.)—The_ proper piece is that called the navel-piece; it mu.st be hung up in a cellar until it is a little damp, but not long enough to change; take it down, and wash it very well in brown sug.nr and water, dry it with a cloth, cut it in two or three pieces ; take half a pound of brown sugar, two pounds of bay salt dried and ;iounded small, six ounces of salt-peti'e dried and beat fine, rub it well into the beef, then strew com- mon salt all over it, as much as will make it salt enough; let it lie together ten days, changing the pieces from the bot- tom to the top ; hang it where it may have the warmth of the fire, hut not too near; when it is dressed, boil it in hay and pump water, until tender; it will .keep two or three months ; when mouldy, it is dipped in water. Beef (To Keep.)—The butcher should t.ake out the kernels in the neck pieces, where the shoulder clod is taken oil', two from each roui'.d of beef; one in the mid- dle, which is called the pope’s eye, the other from the flap ; there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the f.at. If these are not taken out, espi'clally in the summer, salt will he of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is ,anc- tlier kernel between the rump and the edge hone. As the butchers seldom at- tend to this matter, the cook should take out the. kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such beef .as is for boiling, and sliglitly sprinkle tliat which is for roast- ing.