( 223 ) EEL E C II DURCELLE.* — Take small mush- rooms,shalots,parsley and truffles, a quart of each, shred and wasli them well, and press them dry in a napkin ; then put tltetn in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated ba- con, a pint of white wine, seasoned^ with salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spice, a bay-leaf, and a little garlic ; reduce the whole to a jelly, taking care to stir it fre- quently ; add to it four spoonsful of re- duced allemande, put it into a pan, and set it by for use. E. EAU D’ARGENT.*—Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, two drachms of cinnamon, broken in pieces, and two quarts of brandy!; distil from this in the bain ^arie alembic a quart of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds and a q;iarter of sugar in three pints of river water, put the liqueur to it, strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf, as directed. See Eau d’ Or, Eau de la Cote.*—Take half a pound of the best cinnamon in powder, half a pound of dates, half a pound of the best Turkey figs, and the zesfes of four ce- drats, put all these into three gallons of brandy. Let them infuse for six days ; at the end of that period distil in a bain marie; from this you will extract six quarts of the liqueur. Dissolve nine pounds of fine sugar in six quarts of dis- tilled river water, add it to the liqueur., pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. EAvd’ Or.*—Take the rinds of two fine lemons, and half a drachm of mace, put to them two quarts ot brandy; distil this in a bain marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur. Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of distilled water, and halfa pound of orange- flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a little tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. Take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up with a fork, and put a little parcel of it into each bottle. ECHAUDE'S.*—Lay a quartern of flour on a paste board or slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put an ounce otf salt, and a little water to dissolve it, a pound of butter, taenty eggs; mix the two latter well together, then the flour ; work it thoroughly with your hands, if it be very firm add more eggs. When perfectly smooth, sprinkle a cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set it in a oool place for ten or twelve hours. The next day heat about three quarts of water, and having cut your paste into small pieces, about ati inch square, ana having floured each, put them into hot but not boiling water, shake the kettle the instant after you have thrown them in, and as they rise, if they are firm to the touch, they are sufficiently done, and must be taken out of the saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let them remain two or three hours; then drain, and leave them again for three hours or more, and then bake them for about twenty minutes. EELS Baked. — Skin and clean some eels; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, letting them stand upright in it; the pan should be filled; put in a little water, some salt, pepper, sbalots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; set them in the oven to bake; when they are done, take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. Eels Boiled. — The smallest are the best for boiling; they should be. boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel d la Brooke*—Skin, and cut a large eel into pieces, stick them with small pieces of anchovies, and soak them a quarter of an hour in vinegar, with salt, pepper, and small onions ; after that time rub the pieces with butter, wrap them in paper, and roast them. Lay as many pieces of buttered toast as you may re- quire on a dish, and on each a slice of broiled ham, a piece of eel on that, and serve with any sauce you may think pro- per. Eels Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, chopped parsley, sage, pepper and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a dripping pan. Roast or broil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. Eels Broiled d I’llalienne.—If for an entree, choose two moderate sized cels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, then fry them of a good bi'own colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. Eel Broth.—Boil some small eels in a small quantity of water, with some pars- ley, an onion, and some pepper-corns, salt according to taste ; let them boil for two hours. EELen Canape.—Cut an eel into pieces