GAM ( 258 ) GAL pose, 16 oatmeal, flour, or crumbs of stale bread, made into a liquid paste with tiie yolks and wliiles of eggs. Fish is best fried in oil. ■A rich broivn colour is communicated to the tried substance, by pressing it, when nearly cooked, against the bottom of the pan. G. GAL.'VNTlNEo/FoteJorGOTne.*—Take lialf a pound of leg of veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham, all ready dressed, and inince them as small as pos- sible ; mix with these an ounce of spiced salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two des- sert spoonsful of sweet herbs, the same quantity of truffles, all blanched and shred small; when well mixed together, put this farce into a basin; then take a pound and a half of truffles, pare, and cut each truffle in four; choose a fine red calf’s tongue, take off the skin, cut it lengthwise into six strips; cut in the same manner a pound of raw ham, or fresh pork fat, raw. Pick, singe, and bone, a good sized fowl, lay it open on a napkin, cut away half the meat of the breast and legs, and put the pieces on those parts where the skin is most exposed, so that the whole maybe the same thickness ; strew over it spiced salt, in the proportion of four drachms to a pound ; spreail over the whole half the farce prepared above, on that half the truffles, then the tongue and ham fat, taking care to vary the colour; season them lightly with the spiced salt; then lay lialf what remains of the farce, and on that the truffles, tongue, and ham, as before; cover the whole of these with the remainder of the farce, and roll it up either as a ball or an egg; sew up the skin so that none of the stuffing may escape; and wrap it first in slices of bacon, and then in a fine cloth; tie the ends of the latter very tight; and that the form may be properly preserved, tie three stiings round the body, but not tightly. Take a sa\icepfin, line it with bacon, put in the galantine, put round it four onions, four carrots, a bunch of pars- ley and scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, four cloves, the bones of the fowl, two knuckles of veal, or two calf's feet, a suf- ficient quantity of stock or fowl consomme, to cover the galantine, a glass of Madeira wine, and two dessert spoonsful of old brandy. Cover the whole of this with a piece of buttered paper, the exact shape and size of the saucepan, and set it on a, fierce fire for a short time, after which let it simmer gently for three hours, then re- move it, and when it has stood for an liour, take out the galatUine carefully, and place it breast uownwards on a deep dish, and squeeze it a little, press out what moisture it may contain, putj'a saucepan lid on it, on which place eight or ten pounds weight, to make the galan- tine rniher wide than high. Strain the jelly through a silk sieve, (put aside the gross parts,) and let it stand a quarter of an hour, then draw it off, and clarify it. The galantine being quite cold, take away the cloth and bacon, trim it a little if necessary, and glaze it completely. Place it on a dish, and garnish it with the jelly, according to your fancy. All sorts of _ galantines whether of chickens, turkies, partridges, or any other kind of game or poultry, are done in this mariner. GALETS. * — Take three pints of flour, and heap it together; making a hole in the middle, put into this hole one pound of fresh butter, one ounce of fine salt, and some water; knead and roll, flouring the table, to prevent the paste from adhering; roll it out to the thick- ness of an inch ; brush it over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake it of a good colour. GAME (to ^eep.)—Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If you tl.ink birds will not keep, draw, crop, and pick them, then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt: have in readiness a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs, so that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then hang them up in a cold place ; when they are completely drained, well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved by these means; those birds that live by suction cannot be done in this manner, as they are never drawn, and it might so happen that the heat would make them worse, as the water could not pass through them. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat, will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Game, Chavd-froidof* — Roast six arlridges, take off" the legs, wings, and reasts, remove all the skin, trim, and dry them well, then put them into a saucepan ; put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glass of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a hay leaf, and five or sixshalots; set this over a moderately heated stove, and