(26) APR APR Then make a croustade or raised crust of nine inches diameter, and about five or six high, into this pour about a quarter of your preparation of rice, on whicliput a layer of apricots, with two or three spoonsful of thesyrup, then pour a second portion of rice, then the apricots and eyrup, and so on twice more; tie a paper round l\\eflan and put it in a brisk oven ; when it has been in an hour, cover it, that the yellow tinge which it has ac- uired, by this time, may be preserved, 'his dish will take two hours and a half to bake properly. When ready to send to table, it may be covered with a large meringue., if you think proper. Observe that the rice and apricots should be cold when put into the eroustade. Apricot Fritters d la Dauphine.*— Take twelve small apricots, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup. Let them drain, and take off their peel. When they are cold make a very thin crust with brioehe paste, and make a fritter for each of the halves of your apricots. Then fry them, and finish the same as fritters d la Dauphine. Peach fritters are made in the same manner as the above. Apricots (Fromage of.)—Peel and stone eight or twelve ripe apricots, and pound them in a mortar with a little sugar, then rub them through a tammy with a new wooden spoon ; mix in with this a little dissolved isinglass, and a p'nt of thick cream, well beaten. Con- tinue to whip it over ice till the isinglass is melted and blended with the fruit; then put it into a mould, round which heap ice and salt. If you do not attend particularly to the stirring over ice, the fruit will lallto the bottom. In winter time apricot marmalade must be used. Apricots d la Fromage Bavaroise.*— Take eighteen fine ripe apricots, let them be of a nice red colour. Cut them into small pieces, and boil them in eight ounces of clarified sugar. When they arc reduced to a complete marmalade, beat them through a sieve. Then add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass and a glass of good cream. Stir the preparation well together, and then leave it to ice. When it begins to set add to it whipt cream, and finish the same as in Green Walnuts d la Fromage Bavaroise. You may likewise mix your apricots with powdered sugar, and an hour after pass them raw through a fine sieve. Peaches may be done in the same manner as the above ; the proper quan- tity of peaches to be made use of are firtfion* Apricot Marmalade Petits Cdteaux- /oim*.*—Roll out some pu(T paste very thin, and divide it into two equal parts, each of which should be thirteen inches long and eight wide. Moisten a baking tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour a pot of apricot marma- lade, and spread it of an equal thickness to within half an inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly. Then roll the other layer round your rolling-pin, and begin to place it on the first: unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade; press the edges of both together; dorez the upper layer, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, taking care not to go so deep as to divide the paste ; with equal care mark three lines on each side, and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say two inches and a quarter between every line. Then mark it the long way, so as to make tiventy-four cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when the under side is of a clear yellow you may take it out and glaze it. When your gdleuux are cold, divide them ac- cording to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenge, crescents, circles, &c. When of the above-mentioned form, with the point of a knife mark on each cake an ear of corn, or any other design you may choose, be- fore baking. Take care in thus mark- ing the paste to divide, but not to cut it through. Apricots Petits Gateaux Glacis.*— Makean under crust of puli’paste as for these gateaux fourrls, wliich cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any particles of the kernels which may be in it; put in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done, take it out, and let it cool; then cut your gdteaux of the usual forms. The apri- cots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. Apricots (G&tcavx Parisiens of).'— Pare fifteen fine ripe apricots, divide them into quarters, and toss them up, (without putting them on the fire.) with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter melted, the same of powder sugar, with the zeste of a lemon grated on it. Bre^ the stones, blanch and cut the kernels in half, and mix them with the fruit. Pre- pare your gdleau.i' exactly the same as Gllteaux Parisieus of .\pples ; put the apricots in very carefully, and then finish as therein directed, only that sugar is strewed over the top. Apricots, Petits Gdteau.r Royatix.*— Make two layers of puli’ paste, about fourteen inches square ; mask one of them with apricot marmalade, on which