105 ) CAL CAL 1 or foOr lionrs. Have your jelly-bag I washed very clean, place it in the. stand \ over a lai'ge basin, and when the jelly is I ready, run it tliroiigh several times, till it looks clear and bright; when all is through, set it over the fire once more I till you see a white scum rise, skim that ott", and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into moulil. ^ You may 1 garnish your jelly as you fill it iifl, with ditierent kinds of grapes, &c. placed in Uie mould. Calf’s Feet Pie.—BoW the feet in three quarts of water, with three or four I blades of mace, gently, till reduced to j half, then lake out the feet and drain I them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet, put half the meat in it, strew over half a pound of 1 currants, and half a pound of raisins I stoned; lay on the rest of the meat, skim the liquor they are boiled in. sweeten I and add to it half a pint of white wine. ! Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, I and bake it an hour and a half. I Calf’s Feet d la Poulette.* — Bone I the feet, and when boiled, cut them into I small pieces, and put them into a sauce- i pan with a bit of butter, mushronms, ; parsley, green onions, garlic shalots, laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and cloves. I Warm them over the fire ; put in a little i flour, a glass of white wine, the same of 1 stock, season with salt and pepper. Boil it for half an hour over a gentle fire, when reduced to half, take out the herbs and add the yolks of three eggs diluted with a spoonful of vinegar, and one of stock. Thicken without boiling it, and serve quick. Calf’s Feet d la Proven<;ale.* — Soak some boiled calf’s feet in a little olive oil, lemon juice, and a glass of good stock, stew them over a slow fire until quite tender. Then work up a little butter and flour, and do it over tbe fire j to colour, then put in the feet, add a I pounded anchovy, and some more lemon i juice, boil all together a quarter of an ■| hour, and serve very hot. I Calf’s Feet Pudding.—Mince a pound : of calf’s feet fine, first taking out the j fat and tbe brown, mix with it a pound j and a half of shred suet, the crumb of a ! small roll grated, the yolks of* six, and I the whiles of three eggs well beaten, 1 sufficient milk to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours ; serve 1 with melted butter, white wine, and : suirar. j Calf’s Feet Roasted. — Blanch and i boil the feet till tender, then let them ' c^l. When cold lard them with small ' pieces of bacon, tie them on a spit and roast them ; serve them with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and cinnamon, beaten up thick. Calf’s Feet Farces en Soldi.— Pre- pare the call’s feet, take out the bone as far as the joint, and stew them. When done, set them to drain. Then take a little/«»re fine, leaving out the eggs,and stuli’ the middle of each foot, making them as round as you can ; dip them first into an omelet, seasoned with pep- per and salt, and then twice into bread crumbs, and fry them of a finebtown. Garnish with fried parsley very green, and send up with them brown sharp sauce. Calf’s Feet Stewed. — Divide each foot into four pieces, put them to stew with half a pint of water, with a potatoe, an onion (peeled, and sliced_ thin) pep- per, and salt, simmer these ingredients for two hours gently. Calf’s Head.—Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender, then strew it over with bread crumbs and parsley chopped, and brown it. Serve with bacon and greens. Boil the brains, and mix tliem with melted butter, scald- ed sgge chopped, pepper and salt; lay them on a dish, and the tongue in the middle. Calf’s Head d la Bourgeoise.* Cleanse and scald a fine calf’s head, skin it carefully, then take out the brains, tongue and eyes, and cut the cheeks from the bones ; make a force-meat with the brains, some fillet of veal, beef suet, salt, pepper, shred parsley, green onions, thyme, basil, half a bay leaf, two spoons- ful of brandy and three eggs. _ Then parboil tbe tongue, eyes (having re- moved the black part), and the cheeks, hash them, and put them with the force- meat into tlie skin which was taken from the head, sew it up, and shape it to its natural form ; put it in a vessel just large enough to hold it, with half a pint of white wine, a pint of stock, parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, pepper and salt. Stew it gently for three hours, drain off the fat and dry it, and take out the thread. Strain tlie liquor it was stewed in, and add to it some cnllis and a little vinegar, reduce it and pour it over the head. Serve it on a napkin. Tliis may he brouglit to table cold ; it must then be stewed witli more wliite wine, and less stock. Calf’s Head Collared.—Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and ukc out the brains. Boil tender enougli to remove the bones; then liave ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, inace,