MAC ( .‘325 ) MAC sm-iH onions, and white mushrooms; blancli all these separately, and a quar- ter of an hour before dinner, make them quite hot, and then drain them on a cloth; in the mean time, reduce some atleniande., add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vegetables, with a little sugar and fresh butter; stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The macedoine is generally used to garnish the removes of soups. ^ Macedoine A la Bechamelle. —Pre- pare carrots, turnips, small onions, pease, I asparagus, bread, and French beans, t artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c., in the same manner as the macedoine ; ‘ when they are all done in their appro- priate seasoning, drain them very dry, I and put them into a saucepan, and pour I on them a reduced bichamel; snake I them all up together, that the sauce may I be thoroughly incorporated with the i vegetables; keep it hot, but do not let it i boil. Macedoine of Fruit.*—The mace- doi)ie is an ornamental dish, composed of transDarent jelly, with various fruits enclosea in it; for this purpose it sliould bedoneas follows; Have a dome-shaped mould six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only four inches and a half in dia- meter, and two and three quarters high; I to this latter have four handles, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a straw- berry transparent jelly, place the larger mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former; whilst it is congealing, pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of very red ones, the same of white raspberries, a dozen bunches of red, and the same of white currants; wash all these well, but touch them as little as possible, that they may not lose their freshness ; when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some hot water into the small mould which will enable you to remove it with ease ; raise it with great care, so that the space may be found without the sliglitest flaw; then plai;e on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two bunches of white currants, surround these witii a ring of white strawberries, and the latter with a crown or ring of white raspberries; pour over very carefttlly two or three spoonsful ol the jelly, and when that is congealed, proceed in the same way with the red currants, strawberries, and raspberries, then the jeily, and so on alternately, until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould with jelly; as soon as the whole is con- gealed, dip your mould into a large saucepan of hot water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. The macedoine may he garnished in this manner with any kind of fruit you think proper. It may also be filled with two jellies as follows: white lemon jelly in the large mould, and finished with the same jelly, tinged with either rose-colour or yellow; indeed the moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL, to CAoose.—Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the gills are of a faint colour, the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They are in season in May and Jutie. Mackerel Boiled.—Boil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. Serve with fennel sauce and coddled gooseberries. Mackerel with Black Butter.*—The mackerel for this dish should be dressed according to the directions for mackerel grille; dish them; then put a piece of butter into a frying- pan, and when it is quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and pour them over the fish ; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. Mackerel Broiled or Fried.— They may be broiled or fried, and are ex- tremely good either way, stuSed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, le- mon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nut- meg, mixed with yolk of egg; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce. Mackerel en .Cailles.— Cut two or three mackerel, each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, slialots, mush- rooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the seasoning ; lay them on a baking dish, pour the remainder of the seasoning over, put them in the oven ; when nearly done, take them out, cover them with bread crumbs; replace the dish to finish the baking. Serve with wine sauce. Mackerel Collared. — They may be done in the same manner as eels are done, only the sage should be omitted, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and lemon-peel, substituted in its place. Mackerel e/t Compote.*—Prepare the mackerel, cut oil' the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with ' any common fisli you may have, and ancliovy and white wine ; braise them in this; when done, serve them witii their own liquor. Mackerel, to Dry.— They must lie very fresh. Gut and wash tliem very clean, cut off their heads, split them 2 F 1