ORA ( 363 ) ORA 2 12 i mouths downwards, changing them_ to )i dry places ; when dry, put them into I milk-warm syrup; let them lie half an 1 hour: iiistscald them; take, them out, put J them into a deep china dish, pour the $ 8yrupover,coverthera with another dish, I scald them once in two or three days for i a fortnight; the last time, boil them up } quick till they look clear, turning them i about as often as there is occasion; if i’ any part looks white and thick, strew I sugar over it in the boiling; when they (' are transparent put them into pots; pour ii the syrup over scalding hot; put brandy- I' paper, and tie on a bladder. For syrup, ; ] a pound of sugar to a pint of water. i' OaANGES, Roquilles of-* — The peels ;l taken from preserved oranges are thus called ; they are tied up and done with I oranges; the third day they are drained, I and put in a stove to dry, taking care to ; move them frequently, to prevent their I sticking together ; when perfectly dry, i put them into boxes. Orange Sawce.*—Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of bam, some small pieces of orange-peel, about half an ounce of but- ter rolled in flour, salt and pepper ; sim- mer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. Orange Gravy Sauce.—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it half a dozen basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and let it boil for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put to the clear gravy, the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, half a tea- spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine; serve it hot; shalot and cayenne may be added. Orange Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and half of sugar in a quart of very pure water; take nine fine oranges and two lemons ; wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of these fruits; sweeten this juice;with theabove syrup, run the whole through a close liair sieve, and finish in the usual way. (See Sherbet.) Orange Shrub.*—Put ten pounds of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it until the sugar be dissolved; ekim it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite cold, pour it into a barrel; add three quarts of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange-juice (take care there are no pips). Beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then draw it olT and bottle it. Orange Sugar.*—Rasp on a piece of sugar the rinds of the best oranifes, but so lightly that not a particle of the white is mixed with it; scrape off the surface of the sugar as it becomes coloured, and continue this operation until you have as much sugar as you require; then lay it in a stove, or at the mouth of the oven to dry; when it is perfectly so, pass it through a very fine sieve. Lemons and cedrats may be grated, and the sugar dried in the same man- ner. Oranges en Surprise.* — Take ten oranges,choose them of avery good.form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep- coloured ; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the knot exactly in the centre; then, with a tea-spoon, clear out all the juice, &c. from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be not injured ; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into jelly. As every orange is thus emptied, plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart, on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table, fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on ; place six of them on a napkin, neatly folded in a dish, and a seventh on the top. If you think proper, you may divide the rind in quarters, by which means the clear jelly within will be shewn to great advantage. These oranges en surprise^ are sometimes served in baskets made of coloured confectionary. Orange Tarts. * -^Pare the oranges very thin, put them into water for two or three days, changing the water several times; then boil them till tender, and the bitterness extracted ; when cold, cut a thick slice off the top and bottom, and the rest as thick as a crown-piece: put a puff- paste into the tartlet-pans, then a layer of sugar, and of orange, al- ternately, till the pans are full: bake them. Orange Tar<.-—Squeeze, pulp, and boil until tender, a couple of Seville oranges; then weigh them, and take double their weight of sugar: beat the orange and sugar together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp, of the oranges, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat them all together. Then line a very shallow dish with a light puff- crust, and lay the orange in it. You may ice It, if you think proper. Orange IVine.*—A. dozen of oranges to a gallon of water, and three pounds and a half of fine loaf-sugar ; pare your oranges very thin, and take off all the white skin ; squeeze them well, then put the juice, the oranges, and the water to- gether, and let it stand in the tub fur four and twenty hours; then strain it off,