OL I OL I ( 3; pletely; lay in small pipces of butter, until you liave as much as you may want; close them again, set them before the fire, and cut each in halves or quar- ters. OAniEAL Pudding.— Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the very best fine oatmeal; let itsoak all night; the next day beat two eg^s, and mix a little salt; put it in a basin just large enough ta hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. VVhenhold,slice and toast it, and eat it as oat cake buttered. Oatmeal Pudding, New England Fashion.—Steep a pint of whole oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk the overnight; in the morning shred half a pound of beef suet very line, and mix with the oatmeal and milk, some grated nutmeg, and a little salt, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it; stir the whole well together, tie it pretty close, and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for sauce. Ollt of Jupiter.*—Take three quarts of spirits of wine, flavoured with essen- tial oil of lemon, the same quantity flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a syrup with seven pounds of sugar, a gal- lon of water, and two bottles of Scubac; mix the whole together, and by stirring, it will become thick; to clarify it_, take the whites of two eggs in about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards put it to the Avhole; stir it; then put it into a still in the lain marie moderately heated ; let it remain for twelve hours ; filter the produce of your distillation, and bottle it. Oil Reduce the following articles to an impalpable powder :—an ounce of ekirret seeds, an ounce of carra- way seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm and a half of mace, and the rind of an orange ; infuse these for five days in a gallon of brandy, then distil from it in a bain marie, two quarts of liqueur ; dissolve over the fire four pounds of su- gar in two quarts of pure water ; when cold, mix it with the distilled liqueur, and colour it of a clear yellow, with a little tincture of safTron ; filter and bottle it; seal the corks. Oil Toast. — Toast some slices of bread, and whilst hot, baste them with oil and lemon-juice; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. OLIO, a Frenoh one. — Take five pounds of steaks, cut very thick, from the leg of mutton piece of beef; put them into a deep stewpan, add five pounds of any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of 4 ) about six or seven pounds, whidi must be skinned and have the fat token oil'; cover it very closely, and set it over the stove with a very moderate fire; let it stand till the gravy begins to run ; stir up the fire, and let it stand till the meat begins to stick to the pan, but not longer, as it should not be too brown; pour a little beef gravy into it, and stir it about; when thoroughly mixed, put it into a pot, set it upon the Are very closely covered, with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill the pot; then take twelve carrots, nine parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips ; nut these into the pot, with a bunch of leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of mignonette ; let these boil well together, am' then put in a fowl, a turkey, and a couple of pigeons; add a couple of pounds of ham, cut in thick slices *, keep it boiling, and as the scum rises, skim it off' very clean; while these are doing, take four French rolls rasped, pare off the crusts, and put them into a stewpan with a little of the olio liquor; when they are soft, put them into a tureen or into a very deep soup dish; pour in the liquor; let there be some celerv, and some of the other roots put in, with some of the best pieces of the meat, and the pigeons put in whole. This is the way to make the plain French olio; but they often put in partridges to stew in the gravy, sometimes half roasting them be- fore they put them in. Olio, Maigre.—Scald all sorts of roots, such as onions, carrots, parsnips, par- sley-roots, turnips, celery, and leeks ; then boil them in some pease broth, with a mignonette, and some carp trim- mings; when the above vegetobies are sufficiently done, put in a little root gravy, strain, and set it by for any pur- pose which you may require. Olio, 5jita;»'j/i.*-^Take ten pounds of rump of beef, a brisket of veal, a breast of mutton, a knuckle of ham, a chicken, two pigeons, two quails, two old part- ridges, larded and trussed like chickens, a duck, a pound of streaked bacon, a raw German sausage, eight small sausages, seasoned high, tie all these up that they may not fall to pieces, put them into a braising-pan, with some dry peas (put in warm water the nirht be- fore). Moisten the whole, wiin good stock, season it with six pimento, four cloves, a little mace, and some, nutmeg, all tied in a piece of muslin; let this boil for some hours. Take four cabbages, ten lettuces, thirty carrots, as many turnips, blanch and put them into a stewpan covered with slices of bacon, moisten them with the skmimingsof the braise; then take a dozen artichoke-