( 131 ) C H A C II A done; then set them to stew between lards of fat bacon, willi consmnme eunugb to cover them ; when very tender drain them on a sieve, and serve with good bvchamelle sauce. Celery on Tbast!. — Cut some well buttered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery stewed according to the second receipt, and serve it to table. CHA.MBORD. — This is a ragoflt made of cock’s-combs, cock’s kidneys, fat livers, and fowl’s eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows:—Put them into a towel with coarse salt, then hold- ing each corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the rvhole together, to take oil' the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel; if the combs be not sufficiently skinned, dip them into boiling water a second time, but they must not get too firm, as ttiat will pre- \’ent their whitening. When properly skinned, pare the little black points that tlie blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of water and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire, for two hours ; then blanch and put them into a little itoc; take care not to do them too much; the kidneys must not boil, as they would break ; boil the eggs a little to take off the first skin, throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done, have ready some espag- note, and a pint of Madeira (both reduced and then mixed together), with large mushrooms turned, and some small gttenelles, which have been poached se- parately. Mix all together, and drain the ragofit, tlie combs, the kidneys, and tlie eggs. Put the whole into the sauce Tvith the qu6nelles \ stir gently, not to break the latter; season it well. Add to the above, a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized cray-fish, and two spoonsful of essence of anchovies. To poach the quenelles, two must be used, fill one yvith the farce which has been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boiling water. With the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take the que- nelle out, and puttliem into a buttered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. A small quantity of salt is re- quired in the water. CHAN’l'lLLY liaskei,—Dip some ra- tafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to caramel lieiglit; place them round the inside of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip tliem also into sugar, and pile them corner-ways on tlie row, and so on for two or three stories high. Line the inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with sponge biscuit, sweet- meals, blanched almonds, or some made cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the frotli with rose-leaves, coloured corn- fits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. „ . CHAR.—Cleanse them, cut off the fins, tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first season- ing them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done, let tlieni stand till cold, pot them, and pour clarified butter over. CHARD augras*—Blanch and dress them the same as celery; boil them quickly in water, with salt and a little butter; drain and put them in a stew- pan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. When nearly done, add a little verjuice or vine- gar ; thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. Chards d la Venitienne.—Prepare the chaids the same as Chards au gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoorts and Cheese. CHARLOTTE Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers, till the di»h is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the mean lime, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk; over which place a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples; let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish, yon should use half a pound of butter for the whole. Charlotte — This entremets may be made of any kind of fruit you ple.ase, and is eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, core, ami cut about a score of them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powder-sugar, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon- peel, and stew till the water is dried up; then set tliem to cool in an earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin slices of ernmh ofbread, dip them in melted fresh butter, and lay them neatly all over the bottom and round the sides of the stew- pan ; then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. Another way.*—Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom, and line tlie sides ofa baking, dish nibbed with butter. Slice apples thin, place them on the bread, strew