C A R ( 125 ) C A U iand mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- powder, four yolks, and two wliites of eggs, a pint of cream, a little, ratafia, a large spoonfal of orange-flower or rose water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste ; turn it out, and II serve with sugar over. il Caurots eu Puree.—Scrape and cut a some carrots in quarters, take out the ji inside pale yellow, and do not use it. I When you have washed the outsides, |i boil them in plenty of w.ater, with salt, till tender, then drain them on a sieve, and put them on a stewpan with a good bit of butter ; stir them over the fire wjth a wooden spoon ; when the butter begins to fry aud the earrots well mashed, put in a small ladleful of good consomme, a very little sugar and salt; continue to stir them until nearly reduced to the thickness they were at first; add three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, stir it on the fire for three minutes, and rub it through the tammy in a large dish ; if too thick, add a little more consomme, put it in a stewpan, and before it is wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for four or five minutes; if not strong 1 enough, mix in a bit of glaze. Carrots {RagoUt of).* — Cut some carrots about two fingers in length, shap- ing them round ; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a stewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; when done, add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragofit with any dish you please. Carrots leith fVhite S«;<ce.-yParboil and slice the carrots; boil them in a pint of water, a small piece of butter, and some salt; when done, and the sauce thick, make it into a sauce, blanche with butter and flour, and serve. Carrots (Sw/tei o/).—Make a thick puree of carrots, but instead of broth use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till very tender; then put the yolks of six eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the rest, and put it into the oven. Carrot Soup.—Put some beef bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, popper and salt, into a stewpan. and stew lor three hours. Have ready six large carrots, scraped and cut thin ; strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp tlirough a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which must he as thick as pease-s'jup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Mak-e the soup the day before it is to be used ; add cayenne. 1 t>‘P only the red part of the carrrot, and not the yellow. „ , , Carrots Stewed.—Scrape and wash the carrots, then blanch, and cat them in slices, next turn them a few times over the fire, with butter, salt, pepper, and shred parsley ; moisten with some milk, and when done thicken the sauce with the. yolks of eggs and serve. Another way.—Put the carrots into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, some parsley, green onions, salt and pepper, moistened with stock, or gravy. Let it stew till thick and reduced; serve alto- gether. Cassia {Candle^. —VovnA a little musk and ambergris with as much of the powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- lings. Having pounded them well to- gether, take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your powder and mix well together. Butter some pewter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Cassia (Ratujia of).*—Take a pound of cassia, half a pound of bi tter cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon ; bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients in three quarts of brandy for three weeks. Dissolve two pounds of .sugar in a quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, and let it stand some time longer, then strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. Caudle. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, withabit of butter thesizeof a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, tire, same of white wine, one of capillaire, a piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; when boiled, strain it, stir it at times till cold. When wanted for use, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with some nutmeg. According to taste, you may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful ot brandy, or lemon-juice. Caudle, Brotow.^Boil the gruel the same as for white caudle, with six spoons- ful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a quart of good ale, not bitter ; boil it, then sweeten it according to your taste, and add half a pint of white wine. When you do not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. CAuniji, (A Flour).—Rub smooth one dessert spoonful of fine flour into five large spoonsful of the very purest water. Put over the fire five spoonsful of new milk, add to it two bits of sugar; the in-