( 408 ) PIG PIG melted butter; in a fiunrterof an liour cover tlie pan close, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. Pigeons, Timbale of.—Take as many young pigeons as you intend to have tim- bales, and give them a few turns with any materials you please. Make a paste with flour, beef suet (sliced small), yolks of eggs, salt and water, keep it rather firm; line your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, and put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them ; when done, make a small hole in the top of every one, through which, pour some veal gravy ; serve them hot. Pigeons {Timbale of) au Fumet.— Make a farce with the meat of a hare or rabbit that is very high ; some ham, call’s udder, truffles, or mushrooms, scallions, shalots(all shredsmall), grated bacon, spices, and yolks of eggs. Line a timbale mould completely, with thin slices of bacon, on which layabout three- fourths of the above farce ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a cold ra- goCtt of pigeons, put the remainder of the farce over, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, take oir the bacon, diain away the fat, and having turned it over, make a little hole in the top, into which pour any sauce you may think proper, adding to it a little lemon-juice, and serve. Pigeons e}i Torfite.* — Take half a dozen very small pigeons, pick and scald them ; leave on the pinions, claws, and heads ; but cut ofT the bills. Take as many short and very thick cucumbers, make a hole in tlie end of each, through which scoop out all the inside, and liav- ing blanched them about five minutes, put a pigeon into each cucumber; have the head, &c. about an inch beyond the cucumber, so as to resemble a turtle. Have the same of slices of fillet of veal (previously soaked in a marinade), on each of which, place a pigeon ; put these between slices of bacon on a stewpan ; dilute them with veal gravy, and stew them gently ; when done, take them out carefully, and serve on the veal. Pigeons to Truss.—Pigeons arc drawn in the same manner as fowls, except that the livers should be left in, as a pigeon has no gall; skewer them the same as fowls, [with stufflng, as for fillet of veal, ■put where the ciop was taken out. Pigeons, tl la Venitienne.* — Choose two small fat pipeons, and h.aving trussed them, tie them into an oval form, place them in a stewpan on slices of liacon, with sweet herbs, morels, artichoke bottoms, and sweetbreads (all minced), a little butter, equal quantities of stock and white wine, veal gravy, and a small piece of garlic tied in a bit of cloth ; let these simmer over a slow fire till suffi- ciently done ; then take oil all the fat, and serve the pigeons with all the above ingredients. Pigeons {Cutlets of) d VArviugnac.* — Take the breasts of half a dozen pigeons, mince, and then pound them ; pound also an equal quantity of calPs udder, and a rather less proportion «f panada, adding to the latter mushrooms, shalots and parsley, and other herbs; all being well nounded separately, beat them up together, adding two eggs to bind it. Butter a baking-tin, and spread the farce all over it, about an inch in thickness; when quite cold, cut it into the form of cut'ets, without, however, detaching it from the tin, which place on a stove to warm the butter. Take as many pinion bones as you have cutlets, scrape them well, and stick one into the end of each cutlet, dip them first in beaten eggs, and then in bread crumbs ; f fry them slowly. Dish them in miroton, t with fried parsley in the centre. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a la Boiirgeoise.* I —Divide your pigeons in halves, from j the neck to the rump ; turn the foot t inwards, so that it may appear like the bone of a chop; season them with salt I and pepper, and dip each, first in melted [ butter, and then in bread crumbs ; broil | them slowly, and serve them with a clear li gravy or shalot sauce. ' PiOEONS {fFild) a VEtoujfade.* — e Take three wild pigeons, and lard with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, parsley. |i shalots, basil, (all shred fine), spices ana i aromatic herbs ; then put the birds into i a stewpan between slices of bacon ; add : a thin one of ham, two onions stuck with two cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; let them be thoroughly done, i then dish them ; strain the sauce over, | and serve them. _ ; Pigeons {IVild) en Marinade.*—Your |i pigeons being ready for dressing, cut • them in halve.s or quarters, soak them in a light marinade; when they have lain in this for some time, drain, and dip them in baiter, fry them of a nice colour, I and serve them with fried parsley. Pigeons {/Fild) Pof.U.s.*—Take th^ or four wild pigeons, truss them with their feet inwards ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a sea- soned bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot cut iu slices, a glass of wliite wine, and a little co««o;mw<‘; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set I the whole on a brisk firej as soon as it boils, place it in a stove with a modenatfr I fire under and over, and let them stand (