CUR ( 205 ) CUR Currant Jelly.—Set on the fire in a sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified sugar; when It boils, put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for half an hour; be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum; when boiled enough run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, in which you have squeezed three lemons, then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould in ice as usual. Currant Jelly.*—For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan; cover it very closely, and set in a cold place for six days; then with great care remove the thick skin which then covers the juice, and pour it into another vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom ; when the juice is perfectly clear, weigh it, and for each pound take half a pound of crushed sugar, put them on the fire together, and much scum will soon rise, this must all be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour; then try it as follows : put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if when it cools it becomes thick,and of proper consistence, take the pan from the fire; if that is not the case, let it re- main until that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot, they must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. Currant Jelly, Framboisce.*—Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, three of white, and two of white raspber- ries, press them through a very close horse-hair sieve; pour the juice on nine pounds of double-refined sugar, broken in small pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scutn as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly, take out the skimmer, (which should be of copper) stir it, and let the jelly fall from it; on quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does an, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured ; by making it entirely of red currants and red raspberries, the colour of the jelly will he red. Currant Jelly (Red).—Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the iar in a kettle of hot water, let it boil .an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out ali the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double-refined sugar; put them in a pre- serving pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stirring till it is a .jelly, which you will know by taking a little out to cool ; be careful to take off the scum as It rises, and when it is jellied and very clear, pour it into glasses; when cold,' cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly, dipped in brandy ; put white paper over the glasses, twisting round the top. Currant (Black).—Make it the same way as the red currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. Currant Jelly (White).*—Take the seeds from a dozen pounds of fine white currants, and put them into ten pounds of clarified sugar boiled to grand lisse, take your saucepan Irom the fire, stir the jelly lightly with a skimmer, then boil it up twice, after which pass it through a sieve. Replace it over the fire, taking care to keep the sides of the pan clean with a sponge, so that the jelly does not become coloured by the heat in boiling ; skim it, and finish the same as the red jelly. Currant Jelly (Violet).*—Mix two pounds of black currants with ten pounds of red currants, press out the juice, and pour it on nine pounds of fine sugar. Make your jelly the same way as the rose-coloured currant jelly. Currant Jelly xuithout Press the juice from your currants through a sieve ; weigh it, and to every pound, put a pound of powder sugar; mix them to- gether well, pass them through a strain- ing bag, let it stand a little; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. Currant Jelly Framboisee.*—Take two pounds of currants and a handful of raspberries ; bruise them well, and rub them through a new coarse cloth, strain the juice several times through a felt strainer until quite clear. Clarify two ounces of isinglass with a little clarified sugar, skim it well, strain, and let it cool. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, boil it to petit pcrle, and let that cool also; then mix that, the isinglass, juice of the fruit, and the juice of a lemon together, and having oiled and well drained a mould, pour in your pre- paration, set it in ice, and do not remove It from the mould, until wanted for table. Currant JeUy Dumplings.—Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather tjiin; then take some currant jelly, spread^ it over the paste, and roll it up; roll It in a cloth, and tie it at each end ; bou It an hour, and then serve. Currant Marmalade.—Strip your cur- rants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break ; then take them off'the fire, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; and when they are cold, pass them through the same sieve to clear off the seeds; then dry them over