HER HE A 286 Bnup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARTSHORN Cream.—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of l»artshnrn-shavint!M in three pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, strain it through a jelly-bag ; put it to a pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and give them one boil together; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish ; slick some sliced blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar is usually eaten with them. Hartshobn Flummery.—Boil half a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three pints of water till reduced to one pint; strain it into a basin and set it by till lukewarm ; then put to it a pint of thick cream (boiled and cold), a gill ofwtiite wine, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of pow- der-sugar to sweeten it; stir all these together till well mixed ; dipyour moulds in warm water, put in the flummery ; when cold, turn them on a dish with cream, white wine, and sugar, mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few almonds blanched into thin slips, lengthwise, and slick in the top of each. Haktshoux Jelly.*—Grate a pound of hartshorn, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water; set it on the file and boil it t'll reduced to half; then strain it into an earthen pan. Clean the saucepan tvell, and put into it the white of an egg and a small quantity of water, and whisk it to a froth; put to the de- coction ot hartshorn, a pound of crushed sugar; add these to the white of egg, set the saucepan on the fire and skim it well; then add the juice of six lemons strained, and three pints of white wine; give the whole a few boils, then pass it two or three times through a jelly-bag (in which put a little cinnamon). Wlien the jelly is perfectly clear, pour it into your moulds. Tlie jelly should be strained near the fire, or in a warm place, other- wise it will congeal, and consequently not strain propei ly. H^SH, cold.—Mince a nice white piece of veal, wash and core some ancho- vies ; take some pickled oysteis, pickled cucumbers, and a lemon ; shred and mix them with the veal, and p'ace it in a dish ; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, picltletl cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces shred small; pour in oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, and serve. HEATIICOCK, to bake.—Open the skin of a hea'ihcock, lake the meat from the breast, and mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs, three artichoke bottoms (boiled), some chesnuts roasted and blanched; marrow and skirrets boiled: these ingredients being minced very small, season them with pepper and salt, add the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole together, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick Uie back, and put it into a stew- pan, with broth, marrow, artichoke, cut in pieces, chesntits, and some of the force-meat made into balls; when suffi- ciently done, take it out, serve it with fried bread, and the sauce ; garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chesnuts. HEDGEIiO(5, to make a.—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, moistening occa- sionally with canary and orange flower- water ; beat the yolks of tw<dve, and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of cream and some powder sugar; put this with the almond paste and lialf a piound of fresh butter into a saucepan, set it oyer a stove and keep it constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be. moulded into the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into slips, and place it in a dish ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stir them over H slow fire till hot, then pour it round the hedgehog and let it stand : when cold, serve it. A good calf's-foot jelly may be poured round, instead of the cream, if pre- ferred. HEKBS, to dr!/.—Gather marjoram, savory, thyme, basil, parsley, ficc. on a dry day, in the proper sea-on, bef<>re they are in flower ; divide them into sinall bunches, and hang them on a line in a room where there is a free ci:rrent of air, but no sun : in about three weeks, lay them in rows, in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. Hekb Pudding.—IVash, scald, and shred small, spinach, licet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats (previously soaked in warm water for half an hour), cut a pound of hog’s lard and three onions into dice, mince three sage leaves; mix all these ingicdienis, add a little salt ; and tie them up clo.se in a cloth : whilst boiliiq?, the string must be loosened to allow It to swell. [-lEaBs (Fine) Sauce (if.*—" ork tipa piece of butter in some flour, melt it, and then put to it the following herlrs, shred small:—parsley, scallions, tarra- gon, borage, garden-cress, chervil, esc.; bjil them altogether for about a quaiter