436 ) RIC RIC ten Rpoonful of saffron, four or five gpoons- ful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amal- gamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce should be rather thick, as well as the preceding. RENNET.—As soon as the calf is killed, take out the stotnach, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared oMhe curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt, wet, and soak a hit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Re.nnet.—Prepare the maw the same as in the above receipt: on the following day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leave.<, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjorum,and two large spoons- ful of salt, into two quarts of fresh spring water ; let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, then strain itoffiand when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days, strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also ; take care that it is sufficiently salt. If the maw be again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before ; it should be kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RH UBARH Tart.—het the stalks be of a good size, take off' the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five inches ; lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water; cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block-tin saucepan. As soon as cold, make it into a tart; when tender, the baking tlie crust will be suf- ficient ; or you may cut tlie stalks into little bits, tlie size of goo.seberries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. ■ RICE Biscuits.*—Talce the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of apple, and the same ol apricot, marmalade, and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound the marmalades and orange-flowers together, then add the whites of eggs, whipped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar fora quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in, add tlie iemon-peel and rice-flour; work all together, pour llie preparation into paper cases, Luke them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. Rice Bread.—Take a pound of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as for other bread ; the proper quantity of yeast to be used, is about four spoonsful ; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than otiior. Rice Cake.* — Take six ounces of ground rice, six ounces of flour, three- quarters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and beat it well half an hour. Rice, Casserole of.*—Take a pound and a half of Carolina rice, wash it tho- roughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan, at least eight inches in diameter; moisten_ it with stock, in this proportion ; if the rice lies an inch thick, let the stock come two inches above it, and four ladiesful of fowl skimmings ; place the saucepan on a hot stove; when the rice boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes ; stir it, let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty-five minutes, stir it again ; if by this time the rice is perfectly soft, take it ofh but if not add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so; place tbe saucepan aslant on the side of the stove that the fat may drain away and be taken oflT easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; it can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain_ of rice ought to pass under pressure (if necessary, add more stock, a very little at a time). When the paste is thus thoroughly wt rk- ed up, form your casserole of it, first lay- ing it in a he.ap. lour or five inches high, and seven in diameter ; do it with the liand as you would a raised crust; make the ornaments of the cuter surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for the purpose, taking care that the deco- rations he detached from the mars of rice, at least an incli ; attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as tke raised parts will be lightly coloured, while tlie ground will be ouite wliite. IVlien properly formed, mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it