R A B ( 430 ) R A B on the fire to simmer for two hours, then take from the fire, and in half an hour’s time take out the rabbit carefully. \Vhen quite cold take it out of the cloth, glaze, and serve it. Ra obits Gibehtte.*—C\it a rabbit into pieces as near of a size as possible ; make 8 roux with a quarter of a pound of butter and two dessert-spoonsful of flour: when it is of a good colour put in the rabbit to brown, add a quart of good stock, and half the quantity of white wine, stir till it boils, then put in some champigmms, streaky bacon (previously browned), a bunch of parsley, scallions, alittle thyme, and a hay-leaf; set the whole on a brisk fire to reduce the liquor, season with salt and pepper to the taste. Toss up about thirty small onions in a little butter, and add them, with some bits of eel, to the above when about three parts done. Take care to remove all fat; take out the herbs and serve. Rabbit (e« Hattelettes).—Cut up one or more rabbits, and stew them with half a glass of white wine, some stock, a bunch of herbs, salt, and coarse pepper; when done, and the sauce reduced so as to ad- here to ihe meat, let them cool; then put the pieces upon small skewers, wet them with an egg beat up, and grate bread over them ; broil, and serve dry upon the skewers. Rabbit Loaf.*—Take a double mould, butter andfill the space round the smaller one, with a rabbit quenelle (see that article); place your mould in the bain- marie to simmer. When the farce is sufficiently done, turn it on a dish; take care no water gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould, the brains, small fillets, and kidnies (lightly fried) ; mix some espagnole with half a glass of champagne and ^fumet of game, reduce this and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exterior, and serve. Rabbits, Marinade of.*—Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade (see that article); when suffi- ciently flavoured, drain them thoroughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. Rabbit (il/<weerf).—Take the remains of a rousted rabbit, cut off all the ine.nt, and mince it with a little roast mutton. Then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stew- pan, with a slice of butter, some shalots, half a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, then shake in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red wine, and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour ; strain it off, and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pepper; tieat the whole, wiihout boiling, and serve hot; garnish with fried bread. Rabbits, in a Minute.* — Cut your rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a Btewpan, set it on the fire, and when warm, put jn the rabbit with a little pounded spice, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let the fire be brisk, and as soon as the pieces are browned, add a little shred parsley and shalots, leave it three or four minutes longeron the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen minutes are sufficient to cook this dish. Rabbit Pie.—Cut a couple of young rabbitsinto quarters, and bruise a quarter of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet basil; when these are all beaten fine, line your pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer of the se.asoning at the bottom of the dish, and pin in the rab- bits; pound some more bacon in a mor- tar, mix with it some fresh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over that lay thin-slices' of bacon; put on the cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be done in about two hours; when baked, take off tbe cover, take out the bacon and skim off tlie fat, and if there is not a suf- ficient quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or veal gravy. Rabbit Pie (Raised).—Cut your rab- bits in piece.s. and put them into a stew- pan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemons juice, pepper, salt, parsley, tbyme, sha- lots, chopped very’ fine, and a little ounded mace. When the pieces of rab- it are about half done, lay them on a dish, and when cold, raise the crust; put light force-meat at the bottom ; the rabbit upon it, and more force-meat upon tbe top. Cover it, and put it in a mode- rate oven to bake gently ; when done, take off the cover, and add a ragoftt of sweetbreads, cock’s-combs, &c., and serve. Rabbits Portuguese. — Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner aschickens, the wings turned like the pinions of a chicken ; lard and roast them with good gravy ; if they arc intended for boiling, they'should not be larded, but be served with bacon, and greens, or celery sauce. Rabbits (Pof/ci/).—Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them up. and take oft the leg liones at the thigh, season them well with pepper.