C O U 184 COR CONSERVES,For all sorts of conserves, the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quantity wanted; they are all made much after the same manner, the otdy difference being in the quantity of fruits proposed. Conserves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire; use about half a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade; take tlie sugar olf the fire to work them well together; waNn the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size you please. Conserve of Four Fruits.* — Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and having strained off' the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and boil it to ciisse; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one Iboil, take it off^ and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the con- serve may be poured into moulds. Conserves, Hard in Moulds.*—These are made in the same manner as other conserves, except that they are com- posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic water; and may be coloured like pas- tils. CONSOMME.*—Take eight or ten pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two young ones, and four knuckles of veal ; put these into a large pot, and fill it with strong brotli; skim it well, cool- ing it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently ; put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and three cloves. When your me;it is sufficiently done, jjass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth be used. Consomme of Game.*—Is made in the same manner as with poultry, substitut- ing the backs, &c. o/ partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. CoNSO.M.ME of Poultry.*—Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of poultry, cover them with consomme, and let it stand over a slow fire till the meat is quite warmed through ; tlien add more consomme, mushrooms, parsley and scal- lions, and then let the whole continue to boil till done. Strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. CORIANDER Dragees.— fake any quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the tossing-pan over the fire, and let them warm ; when they are warm throw in about half a glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are dry; have clarified sugar, which boil in another pan; then when the corianders are dry, add a little gum to them, and do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see the corianders are covered to the size you want to have them ; when that is done, take the corianders out from the pan, wash them well, and put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm ; then take your clari- fied sugar, which you have previously boiled to the first degree; when this is done, put it in an instrument of copper, made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole ; hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard height into the pan where the corianders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring well your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rough and grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying. Coriander/ees.—Bruise an ounce of coriander seed, infuse them about an hour in a pint of warm water, with half a podnd of sugar, and sift through a nap- kin ; then finish like other ices. Coriander Sugared.*—These seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. Coriander IVater.—Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, out R a handful into a quart of water, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into ano- ther ; strain it, and keep it for use. COUGLAUFFLE German.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yea.st, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks ol twelve more, two pounds of fresh butter, three glasses of milk, and a q^uarter of a pound of sweet almond.s. Proceed with these materials in the fol- lowing ma.nnerput the butter (having slightly warmed half a pound of it.) into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven mi- nutes; then put in two wliole eggs, and stir it two minutes; then add thrM yolks, and stir again two minutes ; in this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks; which will produce a kind of smooth cream. Then by degrees mix in two pounds of the flour, dissolve the I yeast in a glass of warm milk, strain it I through a napkin, stir this in well, with ’ another half pound of flour; make a