C 11 I ( 151 ) CHI best honey; boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it be reduceu to two-thirds. Chickens e/i Caisse.*—Truss two pre- pared chickens with the legs in the body, leave on the wings, and flatten the chickens a little. Soak them in sweet oil, with parsley, scallions, shalots and garlic, all whole, and seasoned with salt and pepper; make a case of paper, put in the chickens and the above ingre- dients, cover them with slices of bacon and paper; cook them over a clear but slow fire, or in a baking pan. When sulhciently done, take out the herbs, bacon, and serve them in the paper; drop a very little verjuice on them. Chickens e/t. Caissons.* — Cut the white parts of two chickens into fillets, and marinade them in oil, with salt, pep- per, sweet herbs, chopped, &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each, lay in the fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten them with consommi, or stock ; put the cases in a baking pan, and bake them. When done, put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with the head under the skin of the breast) and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon-juice. Chicken en Capilotade.*—Fut into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mushrooms, parsley, and shalots cut small, dilute these with equal quantities of stock, and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, and put it into this sauce; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins cut in thin slices. Chickens and Cauliflowers.*— Chop up the livers of two middling sized chickene,and mix with them parsley,scal- lions, a bit of butter, salt and pepper; put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a little butter or lard, then wrap in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done, serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Gar- nish with plain boiled cauliflowers. Chickens d la Cendre.* — Stuff' a couple of chickens with a rich farce., lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, carrots, &c. place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravy for five or six hours over hot ashes; keep the stewpan closely covered. IVhen done, serve them in their own liquor; but if that should be too thick. put in a little stock or veal gravy ; boil It up two or three times. Chickens and Cheese.* — When the chickens are drawn and trussed, cut them along the back and flatten them ; toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of butter, half a glass of white vvine, and the same of red, parsley, scallion, two cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay- leaf, thyme, basil, very little salt and pepper. Stew them gently for about an hour, then take out the chickens and put in a bit of butter the size ofa walnut, worked into some flour, thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on a dish, and upon the sauce a handful of Gruyere cheese grated; then the chickens ; pour the remainder of the sauce on them, and about as much Gruyere cheese grated on the top, as there is underneath. Put the dish in a baking pan, with fire above and below; when of a good colour, and the sauce is consumed, serve it quite hot. If the cheese be very salt, the chickens must be dressed previously without salt. Chickens en Chervil.*—Make a ra- gofit of two carrots, a parsnip, two or three sliced onions, garlic, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, and a little but- ter ; when a little coloured add a glass of white wine, an equal quantity of stock, and reduce it to half. Strain, and put in butter (about the size of an egg) work- ed up with some flour, some chopped chervil;; thicken it, and serve it with roast chickens. Chickens d la Chevaliere.* — Chuse twa fat chickens, raise the white part, and lard it, and heat it; then cut it up, and having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a , minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard ; sprinkle them with flour well mixed with butter, add some hot stock, four spoonsful of well skimmed veloute, parsley, .scallions and pepper; let it boil. When nearly done, put in some equal sized onions peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley, place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce over them, having thickened it with the yolks of three eggs. Another IVay.*—Proceed in the same way as above, only the wings must be laid aside, the skin taken off, and the meat cut from the bones, larded as be- fore mentioned. Lard two of the wings with truffles, and having melted some butter in a baking pan, put in all four wings, sprinkle them with salt, and cover them with buttered paper. The fri- cassee being ready, garnish it with the wings, and four fine cray-fish, and