C A R CAR ( 121 verjuice, and sugar. Ice it over, and serve it liot. Carp Clean and scale a carp; split it up the back j flatten the back- bone, sprinkle your fish with flour, then sprinkle the roes which have been put aside, put the whole into a frying-pan made very hot, fry to a rich colour, and serve it with lemon-juice. Carp 67ae^e.*—Clean and skin a carp, lard it with small pieces of bacon, stuff it; and boil it quickly in white wine. Then drain it. Put a stuffing on a dish, and lay your carp upon it, cover it with two slices of veal, over which put a buttered sheet of paper. Then bake it in a moderate oven ; when sufficiently done, take off"the slices of veal, and glaze with a gravy made from carp, or any other, and reduced to the proper consis- tency. Carp en Matelote.*—Take a carp, scale it, and take out the gills, cut it in pieces, and put it into a stewpan with some other fish, either jack, eels, cray- fish, barbel, or any other river fish, which it is most eonvenient to procure. Put into another stewpan a little roux, with some butter, and aspoonful of flour; when it is of a good colour, pat in some small onions, cut in quarters, and when they are half done, add a little more but- ter. Then moisten with equal quanti- ties of red wine and soup maigre; then pour your onions with their sauce into the stewpan in which you have put your carp, and season the whole with salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs ; then put it to boil over a brisk fire for half an liour. When ready to serve, put some pieces of toasted bread in the sauce. When the carp is done without any other fish, it is called stewed, the man- ner of dressing it is exactly the same. Carp Minced.*—Clean some small carp, skin them, and take out the bones; minee the flesh with parsley, shalots, scallion, salt, pepper and nutmeg; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put your minee into it; let it stew for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with soup mea- gre, and let it stew till done. Dish it with pieces of fried bread all round. Carp Pie.—Scrape off the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat, and mince it fine, with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon-peel cut fine, a little pep- per, salt, and nutmeg grated; an an- chovy, half a pint of oysters parboiled, and chopped fine, and tlie yoikg of three hard eggs cut small: roll it up with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fill the I belly of the carp. Wake a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels, put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to lialfapint, then strain it, add to it a qu.arterof a pint of white wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a hen’s egg, mixed in a very little flour. Boil it up, and pour it into the pie ; then put onttie lid, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. Ckv.v,Polish Fashion.—Cvit a carp into large pieces, and slit the head in two ; put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, slices of onions, bits of carrots, parsley, green shalots, thyme, laurel, whole pepper, and salt; soak it a little while; then add a pint of beer, and a good glass of brandy; when done, strain the sauce, add a bitof butter, roll it in flour, and the juice of a Seville orange ; reduce the sauce pretty thick, and serve upon the fish. Carp RagoiU.*-'Di'a.\v and scale your carp, then broil it with stuffing over it, then cut it in pieces, put it into a stew- pan with some butter, parsley, scallion, mushrooms, all chopped up, a pint of white wine, some salt, and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed serve it with a thick sauce. Carp en Redingote.* — Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins,stuff it with a farce, made according to your own taste, cut in on the back, and rub it well all over with fresh butter ; then strew it with bread crumbs and chervil, chopped fine, and worked with butter ; cover it with a sheet of paper, and wrap it up en papillate, cook it over a moderate fire in a large pan. Serve it with what sauce you please. Carp Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread crumbs, fine spices, capers, anchovies, parsley, and green shalots, all finely chopped ; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked to take out the salt; tie it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit; cover it over with two or three, doubles of pa- per, well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and one clove ofgarlick; serve with what sauce or ragoflt you think proper. Carp d. la Savanah.* — Take some live carp, cut them in fillets, and wipe them with a cloth dipped in brandy ; cut tliem into pieces of oifl'erent sizes, and put them into a stewpan with two or three dozen of small onions, which have been previously half dressed over the ashes; season with salt, pepper, laurel, and lemon-peel, pour over it a sufficient