M YR NE A ( 350 ) small oniona, do them with a quai ter of pound of fresh butter, and a little stock; and when nearly dissolved, add half a pint of good cream, salt and pepper ; let It boil five minutes, then put in tlie mut- ton, make them quite hot, but they must not boil. Serve them quickly, Mutton (Slices of) d la Dauphine* — Cut a loin of mutton into slices, about four inches long, lard them with streaked bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, and cook them in a tightly closed sauce- an. Make a farce, with veal sweet- reads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, all chopped small; mix spices with the farce, and cover eacli of the slices with it (about half an inch in thickness); tie a slice of bacon round each carefully, and bake them. Mutton Slealcs, Broiled.—Cut some mutton steaks from the loin,about halfan inch thick, take off the skin, and part of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn the steaks frequently; when they are done, put them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter ; slice a shalot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them; add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped horse-radish, and pickles, and send them up hot to table. Mutton Steaks a la Maintenon.—Half fry the steaks, and while hot, stew them with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch ; to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first. Mutton, Tourte o/.—Cut the meat of a neck of mutton into thin slices ; also slice some onions ; line a dish with pull paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, season with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- ther layer of godiveau, then thp mutton, onions, and so on, alternately, till all is used; then cover them with butter, and thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, and bake it about an hour and a half, or more, according to its size. When done, remove the top, take out the bacon, skim it well, and pour in some cullis, in which a little mustard is mixed ; take care the sauce runs into all parts ; replace the top, and serve it. MYIITLE, Oil of.*—I’ut two ounces of peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg, bruised, into six q^uar's of brandy ; distil from this in a Iriin jiiarie alembic your liqueur, in which, infuse half a pound of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve five pounds of sugar in three quarts of pure river water ; the moment it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and let it cool ; take the myrtle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the sugar ; mix them well, colour u with tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. N. NASTURTIUMS Pickled.—As soon as the blossoms are off, gather the little knobs; put them into cold water with some salt) shift them once a day for three suc- cessive days ; make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quarters, and horse-radish; and put your nasturtium buds into this pickle. NEAT’S Feet Fried.—Boil your neat’s feet, and blanch them, split them ; then fry them in clarified butter, or take out the bone, and fry them in butter with a little salt, and some good stock ; when you have fried them a little, put in some mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, and some beaten pepper ; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon, or orange, aud nutmeg, pour the sauce upon it, and serve. Neat’s Foot Pudding.—Boil a couple of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince the meat small, with an equal quantity of beef-suet; season them with salt, cinna- mon, and sugar, mince a quarter cf_a pound of orange-peel very fine, put in two handsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all these, well together : butter a pudding- bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, and let it boil for two hours; serve with sweet sauce. Neat’s Foot to Boast.—Boil and blanch it, and let it stand till it is cold, then lard it, fasten it on a small spit, and baste it with butter, vinegar, and nutmeg; for sauce, toast some bread, soak it in claret and vinegar, strain it, put tlie liquor into a pipkin, and put in a few cloves, ginger, and pounded cinnamon : set it on the fire, stir it with a branch of rosemary, till it is pretty well thickened : dish the foot, pour the sauce over it. and serve. Neat’s Tongue en Brcsallcs.*—Par- boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take off the skin, and cut the tongue into small thin slices, about the size of half a crown; put them into a siewpan, with parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, the whole cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet oil: put it over a very slow fire, adding a glass of white wine as soon as it begins to boil, when quite done. ad«l a little cullis; if it should not be sufllciently highly flavoured, you may add in serving, the juice of a lemon.