LOB LOB ( 320 ) Liver Sauce Jor Boiled Chickens.— Boil the livers till you can bruise them \yith the back of a spoon, mix them in a little of the liquor they were boiled in ; melt some butter very smooth and put to them; add a little grated lemon peel, and boil all up together. LIVERNOISE.—This sauce is only a Macedoine, made with Espagnole instead of hechamelle; reduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the Espagnole, taking care that it does not boil. LOAF d la Diiehesse.—Blanch and pound two ounces of pistachio nuts, half a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of dried lemon chips, and half a pound of sugar ; when all these are reduced to a paste, mix it with the yolks of six eggs, add the wiiites welt beaten; form mto the shape of a loaf, place it in a but- tered dish, and bake it in a slow oven : when done, glaze, and strew nonpareils over it. Loaf, Spanish.—Scoop out the crumbs from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time ; sprinkle flour over and fry them ; glaze them before they are sent to table. Loaf en Surprise. — Scoop o>it the crumb from a crusty French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze and replace it to dry ; when cold, fill it with blancmange; put it on ice, and when the blancmange is quite firm, lace it on a dish for table. This should e done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LO BSTE RS, to Choose.—The heaviest are considered the best, and it is prefer- able to boil them at home. If they are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you btiy them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff and pull up with a spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock-lob«ter may be distinguished from the hen by tlie narrow back part of the tail, and the two uppermost fine within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, thougli generally the smallest, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. They come in about April, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces, on accotint of their coral. Lobsters, to Boil.—Put on a fish-ket- tle, with water salted in the proportion of a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of water, and when it boils put in the lob- ster, and keep it boiling briskly from half an hour to an hourj according to the size of the_ lobster; wipe off all the scum from it, and rub the shell with a very little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them carefully in each joint, so that they may not be shattered, and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail down the middle, and send up the body whole. Lobsters Broiled.—When the lobsters are boiled, split their tails and chines, crack the claws, pepper and salt them : take out their bodies, and what is called the lady ; then put them again into the shell, and then on the gridiron over a clear fire, also the tails and claws; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. Lobsters Buttered.—BoA them, take out the meat, cut it into pieces, put to it a little gravy, the inside of the lobster, and the spawn bruised ; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon- peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice ; stir this together, let it boil up; quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, and broil it; lay it on the dish on the rest. Garnish witk sliced lemon. Lobster Cake.—Bound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a a little mace pounded, cayenne pepper, and salt. Colour the whole with lotKter spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mix- ture into it, cover with bards of bacon, and put on the cover of the mould ; and then put it into the oven, let it bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold ; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up, either mo- delled or plain, with some savory jelly round it. Lobsters, Curry of.—Take them from their shells, and lay them in a pan, with a small piece of mace, four spoonsful of veal gravy and four of cream; rub one or two tea spoonsful of curry-powder quite smooth, one tea spoonful of flour, and one ounce of butter j simmer for an hour; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add salt. Lobsters in an Italian Salad.—Take two lobsters, cut them in pieces by tak- ing off the claws and tail, each of which split in two; the spawn nib through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner:—wash two or three cabbage-lettuces, take .-iway the stalks, cut tncin in large shreds, slice a beet-root and a cucumber; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds, four anchovies,