C Y D 212 ) C Y D pared by nieans of fermentation, from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the dilferent districts, although there is much diversity in regard to the care and management which are bestowed upon it. The v.irietiesof appleswhichare grown and cultivated in the different fruit dis- tricts of the kingdom for this intention, are extremely numerous ; the following is a list of the most approved:— Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cbwanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence ctilled Red Norman, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight’s new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder; namely, TheDownton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. Gathering the Fruit. — Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is removed from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rough, and unpleasant in its taste. It should be gathered on a dry day, when the fruit has acquired such a state of maturity as to be ready to drop from the tree, when the limbs or branches of it should be slightly shaken, and disburthened in a partial manner of its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due de- gree of maturity. It is indeed thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gatherings, as well as the wind-falls, can, however, only be employed in mak- ing inferior cyder; the prune cyder must be drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather on the proper separation of the fruits. Eactikiiid should be collected separately and kept till it becomes perfectly mel- low ; for this purpose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun and air and rain ; not being over covered, except in reiy se- vere frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor is however increased by keeping the iruit under cover some time before it is ground; but unless a situa- tion can be allbrded it, in which it i« ex- posed to a free current of air, and where it can be spread very thin, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smell, which will much aflect the cyder produced from it. No_ criterion appears to be known by which the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be asceitained with ac- curacy; but there is good reason to be- lieve that it improves as long as it con- tinues to acquire a deeper shade of yel- low. Each heap should be examined prior to its being ground, and any de- cayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separate from one another a few weeks, it will be per- ceived that some of the.prime sorts are in a proper stale of maturation ; that the pulp has acquired its highest degree of richness; the kernels assumed their brownest colour; the rind still free from any appearance of rottenness ; and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb: then is the time, and such is the fruit to be employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now be got in readiness; the mill, press, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls, well washed, and eaffered to dry thoroughly before they are employed in the busi- ness. Grinding the Apples,—In the business of grinding the fruit, for this use, into what is termed pommage, several differ- ent methods are practised. It has lieen suggested by some that each sort of apple should be ground separately, or,at least, such sorts, in mixture, as become ripe at the same time; but others state that this practice is that by which “ fine cyder, of different flavoursand degrees of strength, is obtained from the same orchard, the liquors being mixed after they are made.” It is, however, allowed that, “in all common cases,’’ the practice of grinding different varieties of fruit equally ripe together, is found eligible; as it is less difficult to find the requisite degrees of richness, asiringency and flavour, in three varieties, than in one. And hence it is supposed, that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits, under common management, generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding, the fruit should be reduced as nearly as po,«- sible, to an uniform consistence, in such a manner tis that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discemable from the general mass; the operation proceeding slowly, with a free access of air. Preparing the Ground J'Yuil.—Cydensts do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to