BUT ( 87 ) BUT and when cold, fill it np with clarified butter. BUTTER.—The milk intended for butter should stand for twenty-four hours in the summer, and double that time in the winter season; skim the milk before the sun has warmed the dairy, as it should be kept during the whole of the operation as cool as possible. If the churn can be placed in a tub of water it will give consistence to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- milk, put the butter into a clean pan, pour water on it, and let it become firm before you work it; change the water, and beat it well with fiat boards, chang- ing the water frequently. When the taste of the butter-milk is quite gone, and the water quite clean, work a little salt into it, weigh and make it up into the proper forms, and put them in cold wa- ter into an earthenware pan with a cover. If not convenient to churn daily, the cream should be put into very clean pans until the next churning. Butter, how- ever, ought to be made twice a week, at least; in hot weather it requires much more working than in cold, and not the slightest flavour of the butter-milk should be suffered to i-eraain. Persons who have not naturally a cool hand, should never attempt to make butter. In winter, when the cows feed on tur- nips, the butter has an unpleasant fla- vour, to prevent which, when the milk is brought into the dairy, put a quart of boiling water to every two gallons of milk, and let it stand as usual for cream. A quarter of a pint of warm spring water, in which nitre has been dissolved, put to ten or twelve of new milk, will also counteract the above flavour. Butteb —Make a paste as for sweet biscuits, and when you have put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of melted butter, after it has cooled a little; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste puff's up considerably, and would rise from the moulds, without care. 'Rvitev. {Black) *—Put half a pound of butter in a saucepan on the side of your stove, so that it may just heat suf- ficiently to colour itj do not skim it. Into a large glass of vinegar put all sorts of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, salt, pepper, and a sliced shalot, reduce this over the fire to one-fourth of the quan- tity, add it to the coloured butter, rack the whole oft’clear, and pass it through a fine sieve. Use as wanted. Butter (BtocAr).*—Fry apiece of but- ter in a frying-pan until it is quite black. taking care not to burn it; skim and pour it over wiiatever you wish to serve it with; put your frying-pan again on the fire, and put a little vinegar into it with a little salt; when it boils, pour it over the butter* Butter {Black).—Three pounds of fruit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, boiled till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. Bdtter, Borders of.* — Take some Montpelier butter (either green or red) and spread it equally over two saucepan- lids, laying it about three-eighths of an inch in thickness; place the lids on pounded ice, and when the butter is con- gealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin ; then, with a tin paste-cutter, or stamp of whatever figure you niay choose, cut the butter, and place them in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the but- ter sharp. Butter {Borders, Common).*—If you have no Montpelier butter, take a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mixing with it either of the following colouring materials ;— for Rose-colour, a little infusion of car- mine,_or any vegetable red; Green, spi- nach juice; Yellow, an infusion of saf- fron ; Fiiofef, a little Prussian blue added to the red; Orange, the red and yellow joined_together; the remainder of the operation is performed as above. Butter {Burnt, Sauce).—Fry some butter ; when it begins to smoke, throw into it some chopped parsley ; when suf- ficiently done, add pepper, salt, and vinegar. Butter, Burnt, for Sauce.—Put some butter over the fire in a saucepan, and let it boil tin it is as brown as you wish ; then shake in flour, stirring it all the while; then use it for any sauce that is too thin. Butter Cakes.—Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream, add two pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave out half the whites, and then beat all together for an hour; when you are going to put it in the oven add a quarter of au ounce of mace and a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds anil cur- rants, if yon think proper. Butter {to clarifij).—Scrape off tiie outside of the butter you may require, and then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, wheredt must remain till the scum rises to tne top and the milk settles at tlie bottom; carefully witli