M U S M U S ( 340 of pome Frencli rolls, and fill them with the mushrooms. Mushrooms (liagoilt o/).—Take some large mushrooms, scrape the insides of them, and broil them till they ai e brown ; then put them into some gravy, thickened with a little flour, a very little Madeira, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Give the whole a boil, and then serve. Mushrooms, RagoiU of (Brown).*— Prepare your mushrooms as for wiiite ragoflt; when minced, and the moisture pressed out, make a little brown roux., moisten it with stock; put to it a little ham, trimmings of veal, a seasoned hunch of sweet herbs, carrot and onions ; when done, strain it through a sieve, and then finish it by adding a little butter. Mushrooms, Ragodt of (White).*— Pick and cut off the stalks of the mush- rooms near to the head, wash them in several waters, and then put them into a saucepan, with some water and lemon- juice. Drain, mince them very small, and press them closely in a cloth. As soon as all their moisture is extracted, replace them in a saucepan, with butter and lemon-juice, and when the former begins^ to oil, add equal quantities of veMite and consomme ; reduce, and sea- son it with pepper. Thicken it with yolks of egg, cream, and butter ; skim off the fat and serve. Mushroom Salad.— Cut your mush- rooms into dice, which put into a sauce- pan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled It'mon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool; when qu'te cold, put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; pre- pare them like other salads, with oil and vinegar. Mushroom Cut some mush- rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, and then mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter, then add some good stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves of garlic ; skim, and cook them over a moderate fire for half an hour; strain, take off the fat, and serve it very hot. Mushroo.m Sazice d VEspagnole.—Put two ladiesful of brown consomme (com- monly called into astewpan, with two ladiesful of sauce tournee, and some mushrooms ; reduce it oyer the tire to the thickness of the sauce you put in, at first, then stir in a piece of butter, the juice of halfa lemon, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mushrooms,/Sfewed.*—Peel some large mushrooms, take out the inside, broil them, and when the outside is brown, put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover them, a spoonful of wjiitc wine, the same of browning, and a little vine- gar; thicken it with flour and butter; boil it up ; and serve with sippets round the dish. Mushrooms (White) d laBardelaise.* —Choose the thickest and firmest mush- rooms. wash and drain them, cut the un- der side in lozenges, put them in a dish with oil, pepper, ana salt, let them lay two hours in this, then broil them ; make a sauce as follows:—Put some oil, shred parsley, and scallions, and a small piece of garlic, into a saucepan; shake them over the fire till quite hot; then pour it over the mushrooms with the juice of two lemons. Mushrooms (White) aux Crotete.*— Trim and blanch your mushrooms, pHt them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions; set the pan on a stove and fry the mushrooms lightly ; then add a spoonful of flour and some good stock; let these boil pretty quick at first, and afterwards set them aside to simmer ; season them with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; take the upper crust of a very light brick, rasp and take out all the crumb, butter the crust inside and out, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, dry and broil of a nice colour ; take the parsley and scallions fi'om the mushrooms, thicken the sauce with the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, pour a little of this on the crust, lay it on a dish, the hollow part downwards; pour the ragofit over, and serve it. Mushrooms (fVhite) for Galantine.* —Trim and put the mushrooms into cold water, in which is a little lemon-juice ; then drain and set them on the fire with a good bit of butter and lemon-juice, for about five minutes; when done, put them in a China basin for use. Mushrooms (White) with Herbs.*— Prepare and soak your mushrooms as for la Bordelaisc, mince the stalks and trim- mings, press out all the water they may contain, put them into a saucepan with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, and a piece of garlic; give these a few turns, and having laid the mu-hrooms on a dish, put a little of the sauce into each, sprinkle them with raspings; pour a little oil over, and bake them; when done, dish and serve them with their own sauce and lemon-juice. USHROOMS(White) d la Provencale.* —Take four small baskets of yerj firm mushrooms, pick. wash, and drain them ; cut each in half, .and lay them in oil. sea- soned with pepper, sdt, .and garlic; just before dinner time, put them into a fry- ing-pan with some olive oil. fry them over a large fire ; when of a good colour, add two spoonslul of chopped parsley,