407 ) PIG P I G goed puff paste, part of which roll out, and place round the edge of a dish ; lay the pigeons in with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in ; add a little pepiDer and salt, then lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly round, the same as you would any other pie ; on the lop form a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour; I when done, add to the liquor that re- I mained from the pigeons, a little butter i sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on I the pie. Serve it hot, eilher for a re- i move or side dish. ' Pir.EONs Potted.—Be very particular j that they are quite fresh; clean them il thoroughly, and season them with salt I and pepper; lay them close together in i a small deep pan, for the smaller the i| surface, and the more closely they are •j packed, the less quantity of butter will rj be required; cover them with butter, I then tie them over with very thick paper, and bake them. When cnld, put them to dry in pots that will hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie closer, and want less butter, if they were boned, and put into the pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne pepper, before baking. Pigeons, en Poularde.*—Choose as large pigeons as you can, which fill with a good farce, mixed with rich cream ; tiuss them like fowls, lard with bacon, and wrap each in caul ; fasten them on a spit, and roast them ; take care they are not too highly coloured. Serve with any sauce you please. Pigeons, d la Proven<}ale.*—Lard your pigeons with pieces of anchovies; put some olive oil into a pan, and when it boils, give tlie birds a few turns in it over a slow fire, with two dozen small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of chervil; moisten them with equal quan- tities of stock and white wine, and leave it to hoil slowly, when nearly done, add five or six small sausages, and some lemon-juice. Skim off' all the fat, and serve very hot. Pigeons to Roast.—Let the pigeons be thoroughly cleaned, leave in the livers, truss them, and put a stulling into the crops, the same as for fillet of veal ; put them down to roast, and singe them well; about a quarter of an hour will b« suflicient to do them ; froth them with butter; serve them garnished with water- cresses, good gravy under them, and parsley and butter in a boat. Pigeons, with Roots.* — Braise your chickens ns directed for chipolata. Serve them with glazed lettuces round, and petites racines in the centre. Pigeons, Salmi of.*—Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old par- tridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan; then moisten them with Champagne, good consomme, veal gravy, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, cover it close, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is suflicient), serye it very hot with truffles, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like it, a few larks. Pigeons, aw Sang.*—'I'ake the rem- nants of any kind of game you may have, mince the tenderrst parts with some streaky bacon, parsley, salt, spices, and a little lard ; line a small stewpan with thin slices of bacon, lay X.\\e farce on this, thicken it with some stock, and the blood of as many pigeons as you intend to dress; when it is of the proper consis- tence, cover the pigeons with itaiid slices of bacon ; set them on the fire, and as soon as they are done, dish the birds, and pour the sauce over them. Pigeon Soup. — Take three plump pigeons, truss them as for boiling ; run a skewer through the head and neck, to keep it upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to whicli add roots and herbs, cut into small pieces as for potage d la Julienne ; sea- son the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. When done, pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in with the heads upwards, as if swimming. Pigeons Stewed. — Make a stuffing witli livers, parboiled and bruised, a bi.t of butter, a few bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs, chopped, and yolk of egg ; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast, or fry them, pul them into some good gravy, or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet tierbs, a slice of lemon ; let them stew very gently till tender ; strain the sauce, skim off'the fat; put to it pickled musiirnottis, cay- enne, forcemeat bails, liard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may he larded. Pigeons Stuffed.*—Make a farce with any remnants of fowl you may liappen to liave, some veal sweetbreads, truffles (all chopped small) pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and yolks of eggs: fill the pigeons with this, put them into a pan in some