( 387 ) PEA ) PEA leave it as before ; the next and two suc- j cessive days, proceed in the same way, J each time increasing the degree of boil- I ing, until it reaches grand perlc ; then I add the pears, give the preserve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. j Pears Stewed.—Wash and prick some r large stewing pears, and set them on the li fire in a large stewing-pan of water to |. scald; when scalded, take them out, and li put them on the fire in a pan with a siif- (I ficient quantity of thin clarified sugar to ti cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little II mace, and two or three cloves; let them ;! stew gently till they begin to soften and II look rather red, then put in a bottle of fj port wine, and let them continue stewing |l until perfectly done, and look very; rich I' and red ; then put them in a basin or I jar, with the liquor over them ; they will I be all the better for keeping four or five I days. PEin Tart.—Pare your fruit carefully, I cut them into quarters, and take out the ii cores ; if large and green, toil them in a ‘ little water till soft; simmer them in some rich syrup, line a dish with puli- paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, t cover and bake it. PEAS, Boiled.—Set a large pan of ! Spring water on the fire ; when it boils, put i in the peas with a handful of salt, and a i stalkofmint; when done, drain them in a \ cullendei', and toss them in a stew-pan 1 with a good bit of butter, a little salt I and pepper; if for the second course, he I careful tliat they are the very youngest, and omit the pepoer. Peas d la Bourgcnise.*—Make a light i white roux, into which put your peas; ■ in a little while moisten them with a little I boiling water, then add salt, pepper, four onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, j a lettuce chojtped small, and reduce ' them; wheu the peas are sufficiently 1 done, put in the yolks of three eggs ; after ] which, take care that it does not boil. : Sei"ve them quite hot. Peas d la Bourgeoise.—Cut two or 1 three cabbages, lettuces, or heads of en- I diye intosqum-cs, then fry three green j onions in clarified butter, of a fine brown ; the lettuces being well wasiied and drained from the water, put them into [| the pan with tlie onions, and let them < stew very gently till done, and then drain i them on a sieve. Toss them together Switli the peas, and stew them the same as in the direction for peas stewed d la Fran<;aisc. J Peas, Cullis o/.—Boil some green Q pease in a little good stock witli a bunch ij of parsley, scallions, and savory, rub them through a sieve into a cullis; if you wish it to he very green, add a little spinach essence. Muigre Peas Cullis is made in the same manner, only fish broth is used in- stead of the stock. Peas au Qras.*—Take some fre«i gatliered peas, and liaving shelled, wash, and drain them welt. Cut some streaky bacon into dice, which put into a stew pan nith a hunch of sweet herbs, set these on a gentle fire, and in half an hour add the peas, shaking the pan well; when the latter are about three parts done, moisten with veal gravy or consommef and finish them. Serve with fried bread. Peas (Green to Keep).—Shell and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms. Peas d la Paysanne.—Prepare your peas as directed, d laSefton; wash very clean some cabbage and cos-lettuces, a handful of parsley, and a few scallions ; break tliera in pieces, and having drained, put them to the peas, and stew tiiem over a slow fire, stirring frequently to prevent their burning ; when sufficiently done, season with pepper and salt, and serve. Peas Puree, Potage o/.*—Put about three pintsof green peas into cold water, add to them a quarter of a pound of but- ter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with hands, then, having drained them in a cullen- der, put tlie peas into a stewpan with a little parsley and a few scallions ; set them on a moderate fire, stirring occa- sionally ; in half an hour’s time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound tliem well; then rub them tlirough a sieve, adding a little cold broth to ena- ble them to pass through more easily; make yompuree very clear, heat it, and Eour it on the bread about ten minutes efore you serve it. Peas Pudding.*—Take a pint of good split peas, and having washed, soak them well in warm water; then tie them in a cloth, put the pudding into a sauce- pan of hot water, and boil it until quite soft. Wheu done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; serve it with boiled pork or beef. Peas in a Pur6e.—Proceed as directed for peas-soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and_ add a little more sngfar and salt; this will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck steaed, &c. Peas (dry) Puree gf.*—Having waslied your peas thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with water, three carrots, three onions, two cloves, two heads of celery,