TOM TON (46S ) BUgai-; bind these together, with the whites of four eggs, beaten well; spread this prepiinition over slices of bread, cut ns for toast, and bake them. Toasts, Puffed.—Pound together the breast of a roast fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the wtiites whipped to a froth, spread it over slices of fried bread; egg them, and strew grated bread, and Parmesan cheese over, bake them a little_ while, and serve them with a good relishing sauce. Toasts, Spauis/i,—Roll out some al- mond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it into pieces, 'about two inches square, press them down with a square piece of wood, a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; bake them, and when cold, pour in any prepared cream you please, as tiigh as the borders; ice, and colour them with a salamander. TOMATAS, Garniture of.* — Take thirty tomatas, all as near of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it with great care, lest the skins should be injured ; make -a farce as follows: take a little ham, garlic, parsley, shalots,cham- pignons (shred), tlie yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, an anchovy, but- ter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice ; give all these a boil, and then pound them well, adding at times a little oil ; strain it through A quenelle sieve ; fill the tomatas with tins farce, place tliem on a baking tin, cover them with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the tomatas as a garnish to a rump of beef, or any other joint you may thii.k proper. I0.MATA, Ketchup.* — Take tomatas when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint of chili vinegar, an ounce ol shalots, half an ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it again through the sieve. • To every pound add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistence of cream; when cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry place. Tomatas, Preserved,*—Gather some veiyripe tomatas; having washed and drained them, cut them into pieces, whirh put into a well iinrcd copper saucepan, set it on the fire, and when the tomatas are quite dissolved, and re- duced one-third in quantity, press it through a coarse sieve, but sufficiently so to retain the seeds ; replace the pulp on the fire, let it boil till reduced to one- third of the original quantity; then put it into a pan, and when cold bottle it; close them hermetically, wrap each bot- tle in cloth, and put them into a large saucepan filled with water; cover tlie saucepan, and put a wet cloth over the lid to prevent tlie least evaporation ; set the saucepan on the fire to boil for an hour and a half or two hours. After that time take it from the fire, draw ofl'the water ; in half an hour remove the cloth, and in another hour take out tlie bottles; the next day resin the corks. Tomata Sauce Vranquise.*—Cut ten or a dozen tomatas intoquarters, and put them into a saucepan, with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set the saucepan on tlie fire, stirring occa- sionally for three quarters of an hour; strain the sauce through a horse-hair sieve, and serve with the directed arti- cles. Tomata, Sauce, d 1’Italienne.*—TAke five or six onions, slice, and put them into a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay-leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter. salt,halfadozen allspice, alittle India saf- fron, and a glass of stock; set them on the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick ; when you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick, strain it like a pvrSe TONGUE.—A tongue which has net been dried will require very little soak- ing, but if dried, it should be soaked in water for three or four hours; then put it into cold water, and let it boil gently till tender. Tongues, Pickle for.*—Haifa pound of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same of moist sugar, three pounds of common salt, and two gallons of soft water; boil the whole together, and skim it well. When cold, pour it over the tongue. This pickle will not require boilingnc-ain for six weeks. Tongue, to Pickle.* — Take a fine neat’s tongue, and put it into the follow- ing pickle: lour gallons of w.ater, four pounds of common salt, the same of bay- salt, a quarter of a pound of s.altpetre, two ounces of saltpninclla, one ounce of allum, and a pound of coarse sugar; iioil these together, skimming it well. Lay in the tongue, let it remain ten days, tnrniiig it two or three times in that period. Drv the tongue by a wood fire. Tongue, Potted.—Do it as for pick- ling; when it has laid its proper time,