cal ( no ) c A L the lireron thiii, and cover it in the fame manner ; moiiiien it with stock, and two glasses ol white wine; you may add slices of lemon, stew it gently, with lire above and below. When done, serve with it gherkins, a ragoftt of ciscumbers, or en- dive. Calf’s Liver Haslets.—QmH the liver in pretty large pieces, marinate it with butter, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, chopped; leave it some time over a very slow fire, then .'Oll several pieces in veal caul, with as much sauce as possible; tie it upon a large skewer, with thin slices of bacon round, and roast. Serve it with any relishing :auce. CalfIs Liver a VItalienne.*—Cut a calf's liver in thin slices, with parsley, scallions, mushrooms, half a clove of garlic, two shallots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil pounded. Put a layer of the liver at the bottom of a stew- pan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above seasoning, then another layer of liver, season as before, and so on till you have used all your liver. Stew it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer; clear away the fat from the sauce, and put in a bit of butter, and a little verjuice or vinegar, thicken it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat it again, and then serve. Calf’s Livre d la Mariniere.*—Cut a calf’s liver into thick slices; brown them in a pan with a little butter ; turn them that both sides may be well coloured: then add pepper, salt, tarragon, and herbs; dredge flour over them, and moisten with wdne ; boil it a few minutes, and place it on a very hot dish. Garnish with mushrooms, truffles, and morels or capers. Calf’s Liver en Potrpt'e.*—Prepare the liver as for en Balottes, only form them into balls the size of a walnut; flatten them to the thickness of half an inch, wash them with white of egg, and bread them. Put them on skewers like haslets, with bacon between. Roast or bake a quarter of an hour. Calf’s Liver Puddings.—CvA part of a calf’s liver into dice, mince the rest with hog’s fat (one-third more), season with salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, cinnamon and cloves pounded, and sweet herbs; bind them with the yolks of six eggs, ai d a quart of cream: put them into skins, like black puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in wliite wine, with salt and bay leaves; let them cool in this liquor, and when wanted, broil, and serve them very hot. Calf's Liver Rortifei/.—Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stull it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg ; sew the liver up ; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly. Another way .*—Lard acalf’s liver with streaky bacon; roast and baste it fre- quently with its own gravy. Third way.*—LarU a fine calPs liver, and pickle it in vinegar, with an onion, cut into slices, parsley, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. When it has been soaked for twenty-four hours, fasten it on a spit, roast, and ba^te it frequently. Glaze it with a light glaze, as it is na- turally of a black colour. &rve under it a brown poivrude. Calf’s Liver Sausages.—These are made in the same way as other sausages. The meat used gives the name. _ Calf’s Liver Saute.* — Cut a calf’s liver in slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice ol an oval form, when thus prepared, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet lierbs ; put half a pound of butter into your tossing-pan and warm it, then lay in your liver, and as soon as one side is brown, turn it and do the other ; when all are done, put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the tos.=ing-pan, ana put into it a glass of champagne, four iadlesful of espagnote, reduce them to half, strain it over your liver, and heat (without boiling) the whole together. Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. Calf’s Liver Scolloped.—Take a very nice white liver, cut it in slices, pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, shalots, and mush- rooms, for a little time; toss up the liver in it. over a gentle fire, season it, and when done on one side, turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them with a little gravy and broth, and let them stew for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished en mirofon. Calf's Liver Stewed.*—Cnt a very good calf’s liver into slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put in the liver, and brown it well on both sides, season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter, and chopped parsley, scallions, shalots. garlic, and a little flour; moisten it with half a pint of wine; give the sauce a boil, and when ready to serve, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Liver Stuffed.*—Tdkc a very fine calf’s liver, at:d lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with four sorts