u n 'ly 1 b I F I L ( 239 ) F I L pound of sugar put an ounce of filberts cut into as small stuips as possible; the kernels being first scalded, as is done in blanched almonds, to get the skin ofi'; finish the same as dried conserves. Filbeht Cream FninQaise.* — Wash and drain a quarter of a pound of filberts ("blanched) and colour them very slightly: when cold, pound them, adding occa- sionally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into live glasses of boiling milk, cover it close, and let it stand till no more than lukewarm : and, having in the mean- time beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the infusion of filberts, add ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put six drachms of isinglass to it, and finish as directed. See Cream Fran- (?aise. This kind of cream is made in the same manner with almonds, in which case, six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bit- ter almonds, are the proper quantities. Filbert Burnt, lee Cream. — Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream; put four eggs into a stevvpan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup ; boil it till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it before you put it into your moulds. Filbert {Burnt) Cream,Paiissiere.*— Wash, drain,and dry a rjuarterof apound of filberts, throw them into a preserving pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to sot^U ; let them boil up about a dozen times, then stir them lightly with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to the filberts ; as soon as it begins to candy, pour the whole on the slab, carefully removing whatever sugar may stick to the pan or spatula; when the almonds are cold, add two ounces of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rolling pin, put them into the cream paiissiere, and make it according to the directions for that article. Filberts, Petits, Souffles of.*—Beat up half a pound of sifted sugar, with the white of an egg: grate into this three ounces of burnt filberts ; mix them to- gether, and, if necc.-sary, add the white of another egg. Finish the petitssouffles ns usual. Filbert Genoise.*—Pound six ounces of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two-thirds of them to the usual ingredients, instead of sweet almonds, and make the giinoises according to di- rections. When baked, cut them into • rescents, but do not dry them ; mix the remainder of your filberts, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little white of egg; cover the genoises with this, and then colour them. * „ * Filberts Glacees d la Boy (tie.*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of silted sugar, with the white of an egg, for ten minutes; roll in this glaze, two ounces of filberts, (previously blanched,and slightly burnt); tlien lay them on paper, in groups of two, three, or four together, according to your fancy: take care to clear away the glaze so that the filberts are merely covered with it. VVhen you have done as many as you require, set them in a gentle oven, till they are of a proper colour, then take them out; do not remove them from the paper before they are cold. Filbert Ice.*—Take a pound of fil- berts, shell and blanch them ; boil half a pound of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, and let them boil up about a dozen times, then move them about with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to them ; as soon as they begin to candy, take them out; and when cold, put them into a saucepan, witli the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream ; set this on the fire, like all other cream ices ; when done, strain it off; let it cool, and then ice it as usual. Filbert Macaroons.*—Take a pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them into a preserving-pan (immediately after you have taken them from the shells), over a moderate fire; stir them continually with a silver spoon, until they are co- loured, and the skin begins to peel off; then take them out ; ruli off the akin en- tirely, and when quite cold, pound them with a little white of egg : proceed in the same manner with the remaining three quarters ; and when all are thus pounded separately, put the whole together into the mortar, with a pound of sugar, and the whiles of two eggs, and beat them for ten minutes; after which, add two pounds more of sifted sugar, previously iieaten up with six whites of eggs ; stir all these together well for five or six minutes, when the preparation should be sufficiently firm, to prevent its spread- ing when laid; if, however, it be too firm, add to it more white of egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the preparation to the size and form of a nutmeg; when all done, dip your hands in water, and pass them gently over the mararnons, which will make their surface smooth and shining; put them into a nearly cold oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in it for tliree quarters of an hour. Lay the mnearoons at least an inch apart, and as round as po.'sible. Filbert Mirlilons.*— Teel a quartor i