F O W F O W { 252 it be sufficiently seasoned, and then set it aside for use. Fowl( Quenelles of ).*—Take a dessert spoonful 01 farce d quenelles, and smooth it with the blade of a knife, in warm water; lay it on a buttered si:ucepan-lid, and when you have done as many as you wish to have, put them gently into boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, and set them by the side of the stove that they may not boil too fast; turn them lightly with the back of a spoon, and when they begin to swell, drain them on a cloth; dish, and^ pour over them a reduced fowl consomme. Fowls Roasted.—Well pepper and salt the fowls before you spit them; roast them before a clear fire; froth them up when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, and basting them with butter. When done, be careful in taking out the ske,wers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in the dish, and bread or egg sauce in a boat. Fowl Roasted with Chesimts.—Roast some chesnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them. Take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all to- gether. with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together, put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast, with a string, and then baste it vvith butter. For sauce, take the rest of the chesnuts, peel and skin them, put them into some good gravy, with a little white wine ; and thicken it wdth a piece ol butter rolled in flour. Then place your fowl in the dish ; pour in the sauce; garnish with lemon, and serve. Fowls Roasted to cat like Pheasant.— They mnstbe full grown ; leave the heads on; truss them like pheasants; lard them with bacon, and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. Fowl Rousted ivith a Ragoilt of Oys- ters.—Make a forcemeat, to which add a (Iczen oysters; stuff the craw; cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, then asheetof paper; roast it; take some ctiliis, or good gravy, put in some oys- ters, with their liquor strained, a little mushroom-powder, or catsup, lemon- iuice. thicken'it with flour ; add cayenne and salt; boil it up: when the fowl is roasted, take off the bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish- Fowl (Salad (/).*-Cut up a couple of cold roasted fowls; take off the skin, and trim them ; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, oil, and vinegar; when they have snaked in this a short time, place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs also, quartered, fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers, and a ravigotte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. Fowls in the Form of a large Sausage, —Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some force- meat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, shalots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braze them in broth, with a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions and carrots. When they are done,untie the cloth, take off the bacon ; squeeze them gently between a cloth, to press out the fat; and serve with what sauce you choose. Fowl (Souffle of).*—Pound the fille's of four roasted fowls, alKtut two ounces of calf’s udder, salt, and pepper ; when these are well beaten, put tliem intoa stewpan, with four ladiesful of veloutc ; make it quite hot, (but not to boil), and then pass it through a sieve into a basin ; add to it the yolks of five eggs, and the whites of two, wfiipped as for biscuit-s. Cement fried bread round the edge of a dish; pour in the souffle, smooth the surface, and put it into an oven ; as soon as it has risen properly, and is firm to the touch, take it out, and serve it in- stantly. Fowl Stewed.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped jrarsley, shalot, and mushrooms; stew it on a s[ow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often. Then put it into another stew- pan, with slices of veal and ham. and all the first seasoning. Cover it with slices of bacon ; stew it gently for a quartcrof an hour longer, then add a little whole pep- per, and some salt, a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a slow fire; then skim and str^in the braise. When done, squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; wipe the fowl clean from the fat, and serve. Fowl Stored. Place four clean skewers at tliO bottom of astewiran. and place the fowl upon them. 1 nt in a quart of gravy, a liunch of celery, cut small, and washed very clcao, and two or three blades of mace. Let it stew