( i 5 ) BEE BEE sieve, (having been careful to clear it from fat) and reduce it to a single glass- ful, which youstiould pour over the beef. Be careful that the reduced sauce is not too sharp, and that you do not season your beef with too much salt. Beep (Rib of) a la Rocambole.*—Pre- pare the beef the same as Rib of Beef braised, only add a little garlic; and lialf a bott.e of white wine ; when the beef is done, drain it, and serve with rocamboles, (see Rocamboles). The beef must be glazed. Beef, (/Jo«nc?o^).—Lard your round with gammon and.other bacon, well sea- soneu with salt, pepper, cloves, cinna- mon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shalots, all well mixed tJgether; let as much of these as you can be stuffed into the bacon, and lard the buttock both on the top and under- neath; then season it again with all your ingredients, and put it into a stew-pan to be marinated a little while with onions, garlic shalots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemons, verjuice, and a little broth; let it lie in these two hours, then put it in a napltin with thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin and meat from being burnt to the bot- tom, and boil it in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about two pounds of leaf fat of a hog’s belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, gin- ger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, par.sley, bay leaves, sweet basil, and whole coriander, anise and fennel; when all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very close, and let the beef be stewed very gently; when it is .sufficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; tlien make a godiveau, put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed, then cover it with the same godiveau, then put it into an oven and let it bake for an hour. Before you serve it to table, prepare a well seasoned beefcullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau, and pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate into every part, and then above this squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be •served up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef a, la Royale. Beef d la Royale.—Bone a rump, sir- loin or brisket, and cut some holes in it at a little distance from each other: fill the holes, one with choptoysters,another with fat bacon, and the other with chopt parsley ; dip each of these, before the heel is stuffed, into a seasoning made with salt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, sweet marjoram, and thyme; put a piece of butter into a frying pan, and when it has done hissing, put in the beef, make it of a fine brown, then put into it some broth made of the bones, with a bay leaf, a pint of red wine, two ancho- vies, and aquarterofapintofsmall beer; cover it close and let it stew till it is ten- der ; then take out the beef, skim off the fat, strain the gravy ; add two ox-palates stewed tender and cut into pieces, some pickled gherkins,truffle6,morels,and a lit- tle mushroom powder; let all these boil to- gether ; thicken the sauce with a bit of but- ter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the sauce over it, and serve it up. Beef {Rump of.)—The rump is es- teemed, in France, the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent sjiups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled and served up plain ; or, when cleansed ofitsfat, it may be served with ja sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little garlic, the whole shred fine and well seasoned. It may also be served boiled and garnished mth petits-pdtes. Beef {Rump of)Baked.*-Ta.k^'A rump of beef, what size you please, bone and lard it, season it with salt and fine spices put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, together with half a pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shallots; some lean bacon is an im- provement.- Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours according to the size of your meat, then serve it with its own sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way. Beef, (/i(mp of,) Boiled French Fa- shion.—Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish; cut gashes in the side of your meat, that the gravy may come out, put salt and pepper into every gash, then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace, set it over a chafing dish of coals, and cover it close and jet it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst it IS stewing, then take oli’the lat, put in a handful of capers, five or six sliced onions, half-a-dozen verjuice. Boil all together till the meat is tender, and serve it up to table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. Beef {Rump of) d la Braise, teith Dutch Onions.*—Take a fine rump of beef, bone it,and tieit with apackthread, and put it in a braise with a pint of whiue wine, some good stock, a slice of veal, u rasher of bacon, a large bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; when it is half done, add about thirty Dutch or large red