CUE C II E ( 148 ) kid, 01' wbatevei- else you think proper. Move tlie croyi«e<<e6-with the point ol a skewer, and when done take tliein out with a skimmer; drain them well, .sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyramidal form. . Chesnut Custard.* Take three pounds of well roasted chesnuts,remov- ing such parts as were coloured by the lire, and pound them with a pound of fresh butter; when a smooth parte, add three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of whipped cream, the whites whipped firm, and finisli the custard as directed. Chesnuts d VEspagnole.* Take about fifty good chesnuts, and blanch them in hot water, in the same way as almonds; when they are thoroughly cleared of both skins, put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter, four large spoonsful of espagnole, two glasses of consomme, a bay leaf, and a litt'e nutmeg; boil the chesnuts in this for half an hour, then take them out, and having strained, keep them hot in the hain marie., whilst the sauce is re- duced ; then pour the latter into a dish, lay the chesnuts on it. and serve. Chesnuts, Glacis.* — Having taken the outer skin from some fine chesnuts, blanch them in some boiling water with two spoonsful of flour until they are suf- ficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily; then take them, one by one, from the saucepan, clear away the inner skin and throw them into cold water; when all are done, drain them and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar; then add a little lemon-juice and put them into a stove till the next day. Drain them again and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by; when lukewarm, put in the chesnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish, drain the chesnuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar and dry them on slates. Chesnuts d VItalienne.*—Pe^l some broiled chesnuts, lay' them on a napkin, two at a time, and press them together, so that of the two, you make one; put them successively into clarified sugar, boil them gently for a short time, and place them in a baking-pan; sprinkle them with sugar, and brown them, either with a salamander, or in the oven. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over them. Chesnuts {to keep).* — Pierce the skins of the chesnuts as if for roasting, and then put thena into bottles, and boil them up in a bain-marie. When you wish to use them, throw them, one by one, into cold water; then sprinkle salt over and broil them. Chesnut Paste.—.Make a marmalade by boiling chesnuts in water, and rub- bing them through a sieve, then pound them, and to three quarters of a pound of this, add a quarter of a pound of any other fruit marmalade; mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar boiled to grand plume ; put it into your moulds and bake it as cherry, or any other paste. Chesnut Paste, Cmnpote of.*—Pre- pare an hundred chesnuts in the same way as for Compote of Chesnuts, and put them into a skillet with a pound and a half of clarified sugar; reduce them over the fire to a paste with a litile orange- flower water; dry it like almond paste, pass it through a sieve into a coinpot'er ; imake a syrup like the Compote d I'Ila- tienne, which pour on them and serve. Chesnut Pudding.—Put a dozen and a half of chesnuts into a skillet or sauce- pan of water, boil them a quarter of an hour, then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange-flower or rose-water and white wine, until they are a fine thin aste; then beat up twelve eggs, with alf the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, mix them with three pints of cream and half a pound of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together, put it over the flic, and keep stirring it until it is thick. Lay a puff-paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. When you cannot procure cream, take three pints of milk, beat up the yolks cf four eggs, and stir into the milk, set it over the fire, stirring it all the time until it is scalding hot, then mix it in the room I of the cream. ! Chesnut and Plum-pudding. Anglo- i Frangais.* — Having roasted thirty-six I chesnuts, choose from among them ten, which are perfectly white, and cut them I in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and lieat them with | an equal weight of fresh butter to apaste; i rub them through a liorse-h.air sieve, | and add to them three ounces of rice- ! flour, six yolks, and two whole eggs. | fourteen ounces of veal suet shred, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of ' bitter macaroons, ditto of stoned rai- i sins, the twenty half chesnuts. each cut into four pieces, lialf a glass of cream, a pincli of salt, grated nutmeg, and halfa glass of rum or arrack. Make your pud- ding like marrow pudding Anglo- Frangais. Chesnut Puree.—Slit the peel of some fine new chesnuts. and fry tliem in a little butter till the peel comes oil'; then