100 C A L CAL riBen, mix all well together with a little warm milk; have the hoops well pre- pared and buttered, and fill them with the mixture, and bake them. VVlien nearly cold, ice them over with sugar, as per receipt, nr they may be quite plain. Cake en Turban.—This is the same composition as Turk’s Cap, with ice cream, only baked in small moulds, rib- bed or twisted in the same manner as the large ones, and served in their natural colour. Cak-e^( fVater, with Carraway Seeds). —Take three pounds of powdered sugar, and four pounds of sifted flour, mix the flour and sugar together on a clean dresser, with half water and half whites of eggs, and as many carraway seeds as you think proper, mix all together, so as to make a very tine p.aste, that you can roll it on the dresser, and the thinner the letter ; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter; round and scalloped is the mo.st common, but vary the shape to yourotyn fancy, roll them very thin, and they lyill be the crisper, for if they are not crisp, they are not worth eating; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into rather a slow oven, and if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them from being burnt, bake them very little, so as just to change the colour of them, and butter the sheet of paper you put them on, that they may come oil'easily. Cakes ( Yeast).—Take a pound offlour. two pounds of currants, washed ana picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter, a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron and candied orange-peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm milk, mix all to- gether, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and bake it. Cakes ( Yorkshire).—Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful of yeast, and two eggs; beat all well together, and let it rise; tlien knead it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is shorter, the last lighter. CALF’S Brains in Aspic.*—Prepare YOur brains as for poclees. Put some iukewarmaspicinto a mould, lay itabout an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then having cut the brains into four part.--, place, them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quan- tity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for tablej heat a cloth, and rub your mould witli it until the jelly quits the side; or dip the mould into warm water; turn it out with great care, and if any pieces of the jelly should be spilt on the dish, suck them up by means of a reed. Calf’s Brains d VAllemunde. *— Cleanse the brains thoroughly; divide them into four lengths, trim, and put them into a siewpan, lined with bacon, moisten with white wine and confownne, add parsley, green onions, and slices of lemon, without the seeds and peel. Cover them with bacon and buttered paper; cook them over a stove; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them sauce allemande. Calf’s Brains in Black Butter.— Clean, soak, and blanch three or four calves’ brains ; put them into a saucepan full of boiling water, with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar; let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve, pour some blatk butter inio the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains au Blane-mange.*—' When the brains are w'ell cleansed and soaked, place them on two slices ef bacon, and two of lemon, in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When sufficiently done, take them out, and when cool, cut them in stripe, and pour over them white sauce, cream boiled with the yolks of eggs, or any other cream sauce you please. Calf’s Brains Breaded.* — Prepare them as for plain boiling, soak them for two hours in vinegar; take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow, coverthem with breadcrumbs, and either broil or fry them. Calf’s Brains, Coguiltes of.*—Cut some calf’s brains into twelve pieces, and put into a saucepan mushrooms and truf- fles, tossed up in a little white wine; re- (liice them to jelly, and then add two spoonsful of allemande,a.ndone. of veloute, boil these, and put to them a little but- ter, parsley, and lemon juice, put in the brains, mix them altogether, and put them into scallop-sliells, cover them with bread crumbs, and grated ;>armesan- cheese, pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. Calf’s Brains and Crayfish.*—Boil the brains in a little slock, drain, and place them on a dish, so that the end of each piece may meet in the middle. Take the hails and claws from as many