149 ) CHI CUE 0 3 Jet them boil in some cmisominv and sugar; add half a dozen spoonsful of espagnole when nearly done, »nd then rub ihe whole through a tammy. This saHce being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. Chesnut {iiluzed) Pie. — Glaze the quantity of chesnuts you may require, with orange-flowers, and place them in layers in a crust made of almond paste; cut lemon-peel into fillets, and stick them into the interstices; cover the whole witli very clear apple-jelly. Ches.nuts (Ragoiit of). — When the chesnuts are properly prepared, put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of culiis, a little stock, and salt; boil it until re- duced to a thick sauce. Be careful not to break the chesnuts, but they must be thoroughly done. Chesxut Rolls.* — Roast and peel about three dozen chesnuts, and care- fully removing those parts which have been coloured by the fire, weigh six eunces of them and pound them with two ounces of butter; when reduced to a very fine paste, pass it through a sieve and make it into rolls, as directed (see Abnond Rolls). Chesnuts {Smtffle of).*—Peel your chesnuts, and tlien boil them in water with any aromatic ingredient you think proper; lay them in a cloth to drain; dry them thoroughly, pound and rub them through a quenelles sieve; put them into the mortar again with half their quantity of butter, and a little owder-sugar, and when they are well eaten together, add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them up likewise. If the paste is too liquid put it into a saucepan over the fire to dry a little. About half an hour before it should be sent to table, whip the six whites of eggs to a frotii, as for biscuits, and mix them lightly with your souffle, which put into a silver Btewpan, and place it in a cool oven. Chesnut Soup.* — Half roast about seventy or eighty chesnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock ; when well done pound those which have broken in the boiling, and press them through a sieve, moist- ening them with stock as a.puree. Keep the unbroken chesnuts to place round the soup-dish as a garnish. Another way.*—Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, three onions sliced, two carrots, a parsnip, a head of celery, three leeks (all cut small), half a clove of gar- lick,and two cloves; when they have taken colour, put in a little water, and let it boil for an hour, then strain and season it with salt. Take the outer and second skin from an hundred^ or more of ches- nuts, and stew them in a part of the above liquor; when sufficiently done, rub the broken ones through a sieve as above, and keep the whole ones to gar- nish ; moisten the former with the liquor they were stewed in ; then boil up the whole together, and serve. To make this soup C7i gras, meat must be added to the roots in the first instance. Chesnut Soup, a VAnglaise. — Lay some slices of ham or bacon at the bot- tom of a stewpan, and place on them a pound of veal, a pigeon cut in pieces, an onion, sweet herbs,-pepper, mace, and a carrot; let these stand over the fire until it begins to stick to the bottom, then add a crust of bread and two quarts of beef broth; hoil it gently, and when reduced to nearly half, strain it, and having roasted half a hundred chesnuts, stew them in beef stock (just sufficient to cover them) until quite tender; add them to the soup made above; season with salt, and serve with fried bread. Chesnuts, Stewed-—Cut a notch in the skins_ of about fifty chesnuts, and put them in a stewpan with a little but- ter ; shake them over the fire, and when the skin is quite come off, let them sim- mer in some consom7ne, turn them about occasionally, until nearly dry; then add a little espagnole; simmer them gently in that for a short time. Ifit should be too thick, you may add more consommi. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed; great care should be taken not to break the chesnuts. Serve with roasted turkey,stewed beef,&c. CHICKENS. — Having picked the chickens, singe them well to remove all the hairs, &c., which may remain on the skin; then bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw the strings from the thigh. Take out the crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck; then cut off the neck, leavingskin enough to turnover the back. Cut off" the vent, and takeout the inside, being careful not to break the gall; break the back-bone and the two bones leading to the pinions j wipe the chicken with a cloth, and put in a little pepper and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for roast- ing, proceed as followsTurn the legs close down to the apron and run a skewer through ; run another skewer in the joint of one wing through the body to the other wing; and having washed the liver and gizzard, place them in the pinions. For boiling, tlie under-part of the thigh must, be cut, and the legs placed under the apron, only letting the ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast very full.