( 464 ) TAN TAR taree lemon, the peel (pared very thinj, a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar J put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and the whites of two eggs ; whip the whole well, and pour the syl- labub into glasses. 'J’hey are the better for keeping a day or two. If the sylla- bubs are not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. Syllabub, Somersetshire.—Put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, into a large bowl, sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes’ time, cover it tolerably high with clouted cream ; grate nutmeg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and nonpareils. Syllabub, Staffordshire.—Put a pint of cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. T. TABLETTES de Patience.* — Tak& eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm snow; in the mean time have the yolks beaten up with six ounces of powder-su- gar; (both these operations should be performed for at least half an hour); then mix the two together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and when well incorporat- ed, pour in half a pint of rose or orange- flower water ; stir tlie whole together for some time. Have ready some tin plates, well rubbed with butter: take a funnel that has three or four tubes, fill it with the paste, and push out your tablettes; when the tin plates are full, put them into a pretty warm oven. When done, take them from the tins whilst hot. TANSEY Fritters. — Pour a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a small loaf grated ; let it stand for an hour to cool, then add as much tansey juice as will flavour it, .and colour it with a little spinach juice; add a spoonful of ratafia, or brandy, grate the rind of hall a lemon, Eupr according to taste, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix all together, put it into a stewpan, wiih a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir it over a slow fire till quite thick ; then take it oil', and let it stand nearly three hours, then drop a spoonful at a time into boiling lard ; when done, grate sugar over them, and serve. Garnish the dish with slices of orange, and serve wine sauce in a boat. Ta.vsev Fritters.—Pound some tansey with a few almonds, a carp-roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix with the paste some powder-sugar, and a little rose- water; fry them in butter; drain, sprin- kle sugar over, and serve them very hot. Tansey Pudding.—Blanch and pound very fine a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, then put them into a stewpan ; add a quarter of a pint of syrup of roses, the crumb of a French roll, a little grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, two table- spoonsful of tansey juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron; pour over this a pint of boiling cream or milk, sweeten according to taste, and when cold, mix all well together; add the juice of a lemon, and eight eggs beaten. It may be either baked or boiled. Tansey Pudding.—'EesX. up the yolks of twelve, and the whites of four eggs ; put to them a quart of cream; colour this with spinach juice, and flavour with tansey juice, add a little salt, some nut- meg, and a good pinch of flour; put this into a dish lined with a light pull-paste, and bake it in a brisk oven ; it will take half an hour baking. Serve to table gar- nished with Seville orange, cut in slices, and candied peel. TA PIOC A Puddi7ig.*—'P\iX. four table- spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it remain all night, then put a spoonful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little spice; let them boil gently, add four eggs, and the whites well beaten, aud a quarter of a pound of sugar. Bake it. TARRAGON Cream.—Boil some tar- ragon in half a pint of cream and a pint of milk, as long as is necessary to flavour it; tlicu strain the cream, and, if to be served hot, add the yolks of five eggs, and some flour; when well mixed, pour the preparation into a dish, place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little ren- net ; strain it into your table dish, lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers, place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. Tarbagon Sauce.— Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a a.aucepan, and reduce it to half the quan- tity, then put to it six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon, and cher- vil chopped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong, put in .a little bit of glaze, and a very little more tarragon vinegar. Tarragon Sauce.* — Put into a sauce- pan two or three sliced, onions, two car- rots also sliced, and a bit of veal cut into dice; set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick, and brown, add some