( 222 ) D U M DUG wine; squeeze over them the juice of two lemons, stir the whole together well, and serve. Duck and Sauer Kraut.*—Wash and put two pounds of sauer krautinto a sauce- pan, with streaky bacon, sausages and a servelas, moisten them with rich skim- mings, boil it for three hours, then take out the servelas and sausages, and put in a couple of ducks, properly singed and trussed, and let them simmer for an hour; then drain them and the sauer kraut, place the latter round the ducks, on it the bacon, servelas, and sausages. Ducks {tVild!) Scallops of Fillets of.*— Take the fillets of three wild ducks, and cut them into round scallops, which should be beaten with the handle of the knife, and thenflaid in a pan, with four spoonsful of olive oil, and well covered with pepper and salt, lay an oiled paper over, and just before ihev are wanted, toss up your scallops ; when both sides are brown drain off the oil, cover the. scallops with a %ooApoivrade, add a small quantity of oil and lemon juice; put some bread fried in oil in the dish, and serve them. Ducks Stewed with Red Cabbage.*— Singe and truss your ducks, pepper and salt the inside, and let them stew very gently for an hour and a half or two hours, in some good braise that beef or cutlets have been stewed in. Whilst they are stewing, shred a cabbage very fine, wash it, and let it drain fora few minutes on a sieve, put it to stew with a good piece of butter, and some pepper and salt, in a steivpan very closely covered, shaking every three or four minutes. In case it should get dry and burn at the bottom, add nearly a ladleful of good stock ; when well done and tender, mi.K in a small glass of vinegar, lay it on the dish, and the ducks over it; cover it, and serve it to table. Ducks Tame.—They may be dressed in the same manner as geese, with sage and onion, and apple in a sauce boat; or, you rnay stuff it with fried sausages or parboiled chesnuts, and then roast it. Ducks ivith Truffles.*—Singe and truss neatly a couple of fine ducks, and having some trullles stewed with chopped pars- ley, thyme, and mushrooms, put a few of them inside the ducks; spit them with bards of bacon all over them, and roast them with truffle?, and serve them with a sauce d I’espagnole, or brown sauce. Wild ducks may be dressed in the same manner. Duck and Turnips.* — This dish is prepared exactly in the same way as with S.purie of lentils, with the addition of five or six turnips in the stewpan, and substituting a ragofit of turning for the puree of lentils, which, as in that recipe, must not cover the duck, if it be very white and plump. Ducks with Vegetables.* — Take the fillets, (cut crosswise) from a couple of roasted ducks, and soak them for half an hour in water and vinegar with salt; then boil your vegetables, whether pease, turnips, cucumbers, &c., with stock or veal gravy, and when tolerably rich, put in the fillets for a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of a lemon, and serve very hot. DUMPLINGS Hard.—U\yi as for a paste, some flour with small beer or water, and a little salt; roll them in balls rather larger than an egg; when the water boils put them in : lialf an hour will boil them; currants may be added; they are good boiled with beef. They are eaten either with cold or melted butter. Dumplings Norfolk.—With a pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and some flour, make a batter; drop this in .small quantities into a potof boiling water; they will be boiled in three minute.s; throw them into a sieve or cullender to drain. Dujipling Paste.—Make a paste with flour, milk, salt and yeast; let it stand some time in a warm place to ferment; then cut the paste into pieces of what size you please, and boil them a good while ; let them cool; then cut each into two, and soak them in milk, sugar, and lemon-peel, about an hour, and drain and flour them fit for frying ; or, you may dip them in oil or melted butter to broil, basting with the same as they were dipped in. Du-mpling Paste Pie.—Make a puff- paste with flour, eggs, butter, salt, and culd water; when it is well worked, let it stand some time ; then roll half of it in very thin sheets, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into Itoiling water with a little salt, let them boil a few minutes, and take care to separate them in boil- ing ; then put them in fresh water a mo- ment, and drain it out; make a pie of the remainder of the paste, with butter and Parmesan cheese at the bottom; then a layer of the sc.alded paste, and one of truffles or mushrooms, mixed with butter, then more paste, and so continue, till all is laid one over the other ; finish with the butter and cheese, cover it over with paste like all other pies, and let it bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Dumpling Scotch.—Make a of oatmeal and water, put in the middle of it a haddock’s liver, season it well with pepper and salt, and boil it in a cloth.