B RO B RO ( 84 ) putting on the steak, to prevent its being marked by, or adliering to, tiie bars. A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak, to watch tlie moment lor turning it, which is repeatedly done, during the process. Broiling-tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch. The cook must have her dish thorough- ly heated, to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot, to place upon it in- stantly. Even when she has accomplish- ed her task, if the servant who is to take it to table, loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, shouldbe brisk- ly cooked, speedily conveyed to table, and served with dispatch. It may lie made either a delectable treat to the ac- complished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to the, voracious appetite of a famished hunter. BRONDADE.—Take a piece of fine ■stock fish, let it soak for four and twenty hours in water to cleanse and soften ; tlien put it in a pot full of water on the fire, taking care to remove it when it begins to boil I melt some butter over a gentle fire, with some garlic, oil, and parsley. In the mean time, pick and cut the stock fish into small pieces, put it into the saucepan, and .as it thickens, pour in a little butter or milk. Keep stirring un- til the fish is melted to a sort of cream. Pounded spinage may be used to make it green. BROOM Buds, to Pickle.—Gather the buds befoi-e they grow yellow on the top, mix salt and water until completely melted, then put in the buds ; stir them every day until they sink to the bottom, and then keep tliem closely covered. BROSE, (ScofcA).—Tins is generally made of the liquor meat has been boiled in ; of which put as much in a porringer as will mix half a pint of oatmeal into the consistence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker. Lastly, take a little of the fat that swims on the broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it like hasty-pud- ding. BROTH.—Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover it close with a di.-ih or coarse paste. Put a suflicient quantity of water to cover the meat, and bake it till tender. When cold, let it stand in a cool place, covered close; flavour it as you please. Booth, Put.—Boil part of a round and leg ol beef with other meat, and take out the gravy and broth, and strahi it through a napkin ; tlicn boil them a second time, and take out the broth again ; keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey-poults, veal, and other forced meats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons for bisque; and with the broth of the bisques, a cujlis may be made for soup d la rcine, or d la royule. The broth of farced meats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts of meat; as young turkics, and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meats, that ought to be farced and parboiled. The second sort of broth, is to be put into brown soups, of ducks, teal, rabbits, wood-pigeons, pheasants, &c. orol vege- tables, roots, &c.; and the brown ingre- dients which serve to thicken them, are to be mixed with the same broth. Broth, Fish.—Take tench, carp, pike and eels, prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle with water, salt, butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a buncli of sweet herbs. Let it boil an hour and a half, then strain it through a napkin, and divide it into three lesser kettles. Into one of them put mushrooms, and strain them through a sieve, with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some fried wheaten flour. Broth, EVj/i.—Set water over the fire in a kettle proportioned to the quantity of broth to be made ; put in the roots of parsley, parsnips, and whole onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley and sorrel, and butter ; let the whole be well seasoned; then pul in the bones and carcasses of the fish, the flesh of which you have used for farces; and also the tri pes of them, being tlioroughly cleansed, with some tails of cray-fish, pounded in a mortar, and four or five spoonsful of the juice of onions. Let these all be well seasoned and boiled, then strained through a sieve; put it back into the I : kettle, and keep it hot, to simmer your soups, to boil your fish, and other things. t B ROTH, Fish.—Cut onions, carrots and par.snips, into slices, then put them into ; a stewpan with a piece of butter, and set them stewing with Juice of onions. When these .are brown, put them into [■ the stew-pan, and give them two or three turns; let the whole be moistened with a clear purie; then put in a bunch of parsley, cives, sweet herbs, cloves, and j some mushrooms. I.et all these Iwil to- gether for one hour; then strain them ihrongh a sieve into another kettle, and use it to simmer fish-soup. Note, that cSirp is the best fish to make fish-broth. Broth. .Idly.—Take a Joint of mutton. .a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts ■ of water; put the.se into an earthen pan,