266 GIN GI N them green, then dry them. Take some c/j02<a> paste, and lay it on a tin in por- tions about lialf the'size of an egg ; dwez them, and having dipped the end of your nnger in the dorure^ make a liole in the middle of each chou; bake ihein, and when done, dip them, one by one, first in sugar boiled to cussi, and then in the almonds, which will adhere to them by means of the sugar. Arrange the gbn- ileltes on a dish according to your taste, and serve them. GINGERBREAD.—Ruh one pound of butter well into three pounds of flour; then add one ponml of iiowtier-siigar, one pound of treacle, and two ounces of ginger poundeil and sifted very fine ; one nutmeg gr.ated very fine ; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix all togetiier; you may add carr.aways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make it into a stiffpaste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cake or liisciiits are kept in jiaper or ■adrawer, tliey will actpiire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist; or if to be crisp, laying them before tlie fire will make them so. GiNGERBRE.tD without Butlev.—Mix two pounds of treacle ; of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, each fotir ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander-seeds, one ounce of carraways, and oneounce of beaten ginger, in as m iicli paste as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes or tin plates, and bake kin a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. GixGERBUEAnA'iifo.—Take four pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an ounce of carrnway-secds, half an ounce of ginger pounded and silted, si.x ounces of fresh butter, and two ouncesof candied orange-peel cut into small slices; tlien take a pound of treacle or honey, atjd a gill of cream, make thens warm togetiier; mix it, with all the ingredients, into a paste, and let it lay six liours; then roll it out, make it into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. Ginger C(i/ci>s.—Put four pounds of flour upon the dresser; then take a cop- per saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and mix them well with aspnnn ; add one pint of cream to them, and heat tliein well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mixture is warm; put two pounds of butter into the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fne, just to melt all the butter; i)Ut in four ounces of nonnded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted, pour it all into the middle of the flour; mix it as well as you possibly can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser; cut them to the size of the top of_a tea-cnp, a quarter of an inch in tliickness ; anti before you put them into the oven (whicli should (le very hot), place three papers under them. Ginger, Cunilied.—Put an ounce of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted sugar into a preserving-pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire, till the sugar begins to boil; then add another pound, stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop iion earthen dishes, set them in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard and brittle and look while. Ginger Drops.—Put two ounces of candied orange, with a little sugar, into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix an ounce of powder of white ginger with a pound of loaf sugar. ^Vet the sugar with a little water, and boil all to- gether to a caiuly, and drop it on paper in moderate-sized drops. Ginger, Essence of.—Put three ounces ol fresh grated ginger, with one ounce of thin-cut lemon-peel, into a quart of brandy ; let itstapdfor ten days, shaking it up each day. Ginger ice Cream.—Take fourources of preserved ginger, pound it, and put it into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; then fi-eeze it. Ginger {Mock).—Take the largest cauliflowers you can procure, cut ofT all the flowers from the stalks, peel them, and throw them into strong spring w.ater and salt for three days; tlien drain them in a sieve pretty dry, and put them in ajar; boil white wine vinegar with cloves, mace, long pepper, and allspice, eacli half an ounce, forty blades of garlic, a stick of horse-radi.sli, cut in slices, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper, a quarter of a pound of yellow turmeric, and two ouncesof hay salt; pour it Ijoilingovcr the stalks, and cover it down close till the next (lay; then boil it again, and re- peat it twice more; and wiien it is cold, tie it down close. Ginge a, Preserved.—Take some green gitiger, and with a sharp knife pare it neatly; and as it is pared, throw' it into a pan of cold water to keep it while; when you have a sutficient quantity, boil it till tender, changing the water three times ; each time put it into cold water to take out the heat or spirit of the gin- ger; wlien tender, throw it into cold water; for seven jwiinds of ginger, clarifv eight pounds of refined sugar; when’cold, drain the ginger, and put it