VE A ( 488 ) V E A and then throw them into cold water; when quite cold, trim, and put them into a Rte wpan, with a quarter of a pound of melted butter; add in a minute or two a table-spoonful of flour, shake the pan about, that the latter may mix with the butter; in a little while add stock, champig-nons, a bouquet garni, and some pepper; let these stew for two hours, then put in some small onions; when the latter are done, make a/mfson with the yolks of three eggs, and serve the gristles, covered with the onions and champignons. Veal Gristles, en Chartreuse.*—Cut and dress the gristles as directed. (See Po§tis.) Take thirty carrots, and thirty turnips, cut them into round pieces, all of the same length and size (that of a far- thing), and boil them separately in a lit- tle consomme ; also boil forty small onions (as near of a size as possible), and twenty lettuces ; scald s®me French beans, and young peas, taking care they do not lose their green colour; slice half the number of pieces of the roots after they are boiled. Having thus-prepared all the ingredients, take a plain round mould, butter it well, and cover the bot- tom as follows ; first, a circle of the sliced carrots, then one of sliced turnips, within that, one of the onions, the French beans, and the young peas; place them as close together as possible. On these arrange the other pieces of carrots and turnips, put them regularly that they may look handsome ; cut the lettuces into halves, and lay them over the roots; these, if laid close, will form a solid foun- dation for the rest; place the gristles over them, also closely, and fill up all ^aces with the remaining vegetables. Cover the mould tight, and put it into the bain marie ior an hour. In the mean while, take the liquor in which each arti- cle was dressed, clarify, strain, and re- duce it; then add a spoonful of reduced espagnole, and a bit of glaze; stir these ■well in, and when the chartreuse is ready, turn it out, and pour this sauce over it, VB/i.1. Gristles, e?i Marinade.*—Cut the gristles into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan on slices of bacon ; cover them also with bacon, and pour in a ma- rinade j stew them for two hours and a half; tlien drain, dip them in batter, and fry them, but not in a hot pan. Serve with parsley fried crisp. Veal Gristles, Poeles.* — Take the gristles from two breasts of veal, cut, them very close to the rib-bones ; they may either be cut in small sqtiare pieces, or left whole at pleasure, only taking care that they are all tlic same size ; soak and blanch them well, then put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; pour a poele over, and stew them for four hours, when, if they are tender enough for a larding-pin to penetrate them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, putting into the centre, whatever you may think proper. Veal Gristles, au Soleil.* — Prepare and dress the gristles as aic blanc, and when thickened, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. When quite cold, cover them with bread- crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them, but not in a very hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. Veal Gristles, Tureen r/.*—Prepare and stew the gristles au blanc, except that they must be moistened with con- somme instead of stock, they will require three hours slewing. Take some small veal kernels, sweet-breads, cock’s-combs and kidnies, and twelve fowl guenetles, all dressed separately ; drain, and put them into the tureen, lay in the gristles, and champignons; thicken the sauce (which ought to be rather thin than otherwise) with the yolks of five eggs, and sttain it into the tureen. Veal Gristles (Tureenof).—Wash in two or tliree waters a good quantity of veal gristles, taken from the breast or any other part; then lay them on a sieve to drain ; put a bit of butter into a stew- pan, and set it over a slow fire, and as soon as it boils, add more butter ; when that has done hissing, put in the gristles, and an onion shred fine, some pepper, salt, sweet herbs, shred fine, and some flour; let these fry a little, then pour in some gravy; add three cab- bages cut in pieces, and let the whole be thoroughly stewed ; when done, skimotV the fat, pour in some ham cullis, and serve. Veal Kidney.—Take a veal kidney, chop it up with some of the fat, likewise a little leek, or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Veal Kidnies.—Mix some sliced onions and minced kidney well together ; then fry it in butter, and add a little stock, a little white wine, about one spoonful, pepper and salt, and serve with a liaison of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs and cream, make use of cullis sauce. Tliey may be broiled, and served with a rclisiiing sauce. They may also be made into omelets, and served on toasted bread. They are likewise very good mixed in forcemeats. Veal Kidnies, Sautes.*—Minw a kid- ney small, and put it into a tossing-pan,