CUE ( 147 ) CUE thrmigl) a sieve; add two eggs, and tlien strain them again. Weigli your paste, and for every pound, allow lialf a pound of powder, a little vanilla in powder, and two ounces of (lour; nii.v these together, and form of the preparation as many chesnuts as it will make ; lay them on a sheet of wafer paper, hutter and dorez them several times, and then bake them in a hot oven. Chesnuts an Chrawe/.—Roast ches- nuts as for the table; take oft' the skins; dip each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder-sugar ; lay them separately on paper to dry, in a moderate oven; they may be cut into diS'erent forms if you think proper, and glazed either while or brown. Another fVay.*—Cut some osier rods or reeds into pieces about two or three inches long, and on the point of each put a roasted and skinned chesuut. Take a piece of very fresh butter, (about the size of a nut), and rub it with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate or marble slab, taking care to rub every part well. Then having boiled some clarified sugar to caramel height; take a piece of the osier, with a chesnut on the end, in each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar may adhere equally about the chesnut till it begins to cool, then lay them on the buttered slab, and dip in twrt more, proceeding as above ; when all are done and cold, take out the o.sier twigs, and wrap each chesnut in paper, with a device if you think proper. These chesnuts make a delicious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten the day on which they are made. Chesnuts, Compote of,* — Take the outer skin from about a hundred ches- nuts, and then put them into a saucepan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and three handsful of bran; put them on the fire and blanch them : as soon as a pin will go into them easily, they are sufti- ciently done; rub oft the second skin, and throw them into cold water, with the juice of a lemon. Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar to petit lisse, and having drained your chesnuts. put them into the sugar with the juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of orange- flower water ; put these on the fire for a short time, but not to let them boil; then take them oft' and set them by. The next day drain the chesnuts, and boil up the syrup four times; then add more sugar, and having boiled it to sovfU, put in the chesnuts; blanch them instantly afterwards, and put them into >1 compotiers. Che8nut,s( Compose o/).*—Roast your chesnuts as for the dessert, and when they are pi*eled and skinned, put them into a sauceiinn, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a glass of water ; let them simmer l'oraq\iarierof an ho.ir; squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over them. Chesnuts, Compote of, d I’Ilalienne.* —Roast and take the peel from fifty chesnuts, flatten each a little between your thumb and finger, and place them on silver plate, put over them very lightly, a quarter of a pound of pow'der sugar, and set the plate on a stove to boil ; when you have taken them from the fire, strew more sugar over, and glaze litem with the salamander. Ar- range them in a compotier, and make a 'syrup with a little clarified sugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and half that of a lemon. Chesnut Cream.*—Pound twenty-five roasted chesnuts in a mortar, with a little milk ; then put the paste so made into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and four ounces of powder sugar ; when it has boiled a little while, strain it, put it into a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. Chesnut Cream. — Roast, and then pound a quarter of a hundred of ches- nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to this add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and ab.^ut an ounce of butter. Boil these together for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by fo co d. Chesnuts, Croquettes of.*—Roast fifty fine, chesnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts which may have become coloured; set aside a dozen, and divide each in half. Pound the remainder with two ounces of butter, and rub the paste through a sieve, into a stewpan, with a glass of cream, two ounces of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt ; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way, in two minutes add to it the yolks of six eggs, and replace it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will hav'e some consistence ; pour it on a buttered baking plate, and spread it out, and cover it with paper. When cold, enclose each half chesnut in about double its size of the cream, roll it in tlie hollow of your hand to make it perfectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up five eggs, add .a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes \r\ this, drain, and then roll them again in bread crumbs ; make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them in