( 285 ) H A R H A R put a quart of luilk into tlie dripping, and baste the liare witli it. When nearly done, flour the hare -well, and baste with butter to froth it. A small hare takes an hour and a half, a large one two hours, to roast. Another umy.—'yf hen the hare is truss- ed and stulled, cover it witli thin slices of bacon, tie them on, baste it with drip- ping. Some persons prefer stale beer; rikewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and another egg to the stufling. Serve the. hare with gravy and melted butter. Habe, Roasted.—C\ii the skin from a hare that lias been well soaked ; put it on the spit and rub it well with Madeira, pricking it in various places that it may imbibe plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a paste, and roast it. When done, take away the paste, rub it quickly over with egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs, and baste it gently with butter (still keeping it turning before the fire.) until a crust is formed over it and it is (>f a nice brown colour; dish it over some espagnole with Madeira wine boiled in it: two or three cloves may be stuck into tne knuckles if you think proper. Hare, to Roast in the Skin.—Clean the inside of the hare in the usual way ; •stufiF and roast it. When nearly done, flay, oft' the skin, strew bread-crumbs, cinnamon pounded, and flour over it, pretty thick, froth it well. Make_ a sauce with claret, vinegar, ginger, cin- namon, barberries, and a little sugar; pour it into a dish, lay the hare on it, garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve it. Hare en Salamis.—Take a cold roast- ed hare, chop it into small pieces ; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay-leaf; ttjdd about two spoonsful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter, put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring until it lioils: then put in the hare, set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer, in an hour add half a pint of port, and simmer it for another half hour. VVhen done, squeeze in tliejuice of a lemon, and a small quan- tity of cayenne, and serve it. Hare, uu Sang.*—Sltin and parboil a hare; then lake oft'the skin, cut oft'all the meat, and mince it very small; cut some pork leaf into dice, slice some onions, mix these together, and toss them up over the fire; wlien the leaf begins to melt, pour on it a pint of pig’s, lamb’s, or calf’s blood; nut in the minced hare, set them on tlie fire, and when the whole is of a tolerable consist- ence, place two cauls open on the table, lay a large slice of bacon on it, nut in the hare, &c., cover it with another large slice of bacon, gather up the cauls, and form the mass ns near as possible to the resemblance of a liare; tie it up and bake it. When done, clear away the fat, and serve it. Hare, to Scare a.—Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of good gravy, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it close, and let it stew over a alow fire till three pai tadonet then take it out, place it in a dish ; mix together, bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, shred small, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg ; strew these over the hare. Hare <So!<p.—Having skinned and cleaned the hare, cut it in pieces and put them into a stewpan with the follow- ing ingredients;—Two onions, each with a couple of cloves in them, parsley, bay- leaf,thyme, basil, marjoram, a little mace, and two or three glasses of port wine; set the whole over the stove to simmer, in an hour’s time,addas much boilingstock as will cover the hare ; then let it simmer again till done. Take out the meat, strain the liquor, and lay some crumb of bread in it. Take, all the bones out, pound the hare, rub it through a sieve, add the broth to it, and season the whole to your taste. Hare, Stewed.—Having skinned your hare, divide just below the ribs ; cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, pepper-corns, an an-, chovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwhile make a good stuffing, which put into the other part; tie it up, lard and roast it; flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender, take out the meat, strain the liquor, add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir it over the fire till pretty thick; then lake up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce tureen. HARICOT by way of Soup.—Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, put the scrag into a stewpan with aquart of water, four large carrots, and turnips ; boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness be out of the meat; then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken • t. Fry six onions (sliced) in butter, and put the other part of the meat to the