PIG ( 390 ) PIG 2 M 2 after it hae stewed tliis time, take it up, lay the pig in a dishj strain tlie liquor, and when it is cold skim oft'the fat, leav- ing the settling at the bottom; warm the jelly again, and pour over the pig; serve 1 it up cold in the jelly. Pig i/i Jelly.—Having prepared a_ pig as if for roasting, put it into a braising- pan, large enough to contain it without spoiling the shape; add four calf’s feet, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal, some slices of beet and ham, a bunch of pars- ley, shalots, cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, nutmeg, whole pepper and salt; cover the pig with slices of bacon, pour in a bottle of white wine, and double the quantity of good stock, cover the pan quite close, and set it on the fire for an hour, taking care that it does net boil too fast. When done, take out the pig ; gently, put the braise in another sance- i pan, clean the braisingpan, then put a I layer of fresh parsley, and some cray- 1 fish at the bottom of it, on which place i tlie pig back downwards, and keep it i hot. In the meantime, the braise hav- ing simmered, skim and strain it; add i some slices of peeled lemon, the whites [ and shells of eight eggs, well beaten (the latter should be pounded first), and boil ithe whole till perfectly clear, and of a pro- per consistence; then strain it through a napkin over the pig, so as to cover it completely; when the jelly is set, dip ( the pan into boiling water, and turn it ) out on a napkin folded to receive it. I Pig Olivet. — Bone, and cut off the Shead and feet of a fine pig ; take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet, then pound these with some bread I crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (all I shred), and add soo'ie cream, a spoonful b of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, I salt, and nutmeg. Cut the skin of the 8 pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the /arcs, tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock ; add a glass of b white wine, and a few slices of peeled i lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce H you may think proper. I Pig’s Pettitoes d la Ste. Mtnehonld.— t. Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then ft line the bottom of a stewpau with an 0 onion and a carrot, cut in slices, a few pepper-corns, parsley, one clove of garlic, B and a bay-leaf; over these lay bards of 0 fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regu- ft Inrly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, il then pettitoes again, and bacon over 1 them; add some good beef stock, lay a t round paper close on the top, cover it, q! put them to stew between two fires very V gently, till thorouglily done; then take If them off, and when they are cool, toss ll them in eggs with pepper and salt; take them, and do them over with bread crumbs, lay them on paper: then dip them in clarified butter, and do them over with bread crumbs a second time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remolade sauce. Pig, Rottladesof.—Scald a fine sucking pig, and having cutoff the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters ; make a forcemeat xvith grated bacon, bread- crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pep- per and salt; put some of this upon each quarter, roll them up, and tie and braise them in stock and white wine. When done, take them out, skim and strain tlie sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon- juice, a)id pour it over the roulades. Pig Stuffed. — After having scalded your pig, and prepared it in the usual manner, make a stuffing with its liver minced, some blanched bacon, a few truf- fles, mushrooms, shalots, fine capers, anchovies, fine herbs, pepper and salt, all warmed together in a saucepan. Fill the stomach of (he pig with this stuffing, roast it, basting it with sweet oil. It is generally served with a sauce d I’orange de Seville, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Pig, Timbale qp.*—Bone and take all the flesh from a nice pig, without injuring the skin ; mince the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shalots ; when minced, soak them in oil, pepper aivd salt. Lay the skin open in a small stew- pan, place the farce on it, close the skin, round it and cover it with slices of bacon ; fill the saucepan with good stock, and a pint of white wine; add sliced carrots, onions, parsley, garlic, shalots, cloves, bay-leaf and thyme. Let it be thoroughly stewed, and serve it either hot or cold ; if the latter, it must be more highly sea- soned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot, serve a sauce espag7iole with it. Pig’s Cheek to Prepare for Boiling.— Take oft the snout, and thoroughly etean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it strain for four and twenty hours. Well salt it with common salt and saltpetre, and if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lay in salt for eight or ten days, but if to be dressed with peas, it need not lay in salt for so long ; and it must be washed first, aud then simmer ittill tender. Pig’s Ears.*— Braise your pig’s e.ars in the same manner as boar’s head (see that article); when cold, mince, and put them into a stewpan; take a dozen large