(15) APP C 2 ANl > quite free from lumps; then dry it over the fire. Take it out of the saucepan, and add to it two egys, and two ounces oj powder sugar; mix iliem well in, and then put in two more eggs and tlie zeste of a lemon minced fine ; when these are also well incorporated, add another egg or two, if the paste (which should be ra- ther firm) will bear them. Sprinkle your paste slab with flour, cut the paste into pieces, each the size of a walnut; roll these with as little flour as possible, to about three inches long, and as you roll them place them on a baking-tin, two inches apart; dorez and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till they are firm. Then cut some anise into fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to casse, and the moment it reaches that degree set it by the side of the fire that the sugar may not lose its whiteness; dip the top and one side of each petit pain in the sugar as quick as possible, and as you take them out, strew the anise over them lightly. Red ■anise is also used for these petits pains. Axiseed Ratifia.*—To make a quart of this liqueur, boil a pound of sugar with a demisetier of water, until the sugar is quite clear; then heat another demi- setier of water, and put in it three ounces of anise; take it from the fire before it boils ; let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it with three pints of bran- dy into the sugar; mix all well together, and then pour into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it. Anise Rolls."—Pound four ounces of sweet almonds in the usual manner, and make a paste according to the directions for almond rolls, with a quarter of a pound of flour; the same of powder sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of tlie infusion of green anise, and a grain of salt. Cast the paste, roll and finish as in the above-mentioned recipe ; but before they are baked dorez and cover them with wliite Vendun anise. The ingredients for these rolls are a quarter of a pound of almonds, the same of flour, ditto powder sugar, two yolks of eggs, four ounces of white anise, and a drachm of infusion of green anise. Aniseed f-Vater." Choose eight ounces of new green anise, sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in six pints of brandy, with the zestes of three lemons, and half an ounce of cinna- mon ; in a week’s time distil it over a moderate fire, put a pint of waterinto the alembic; take care to collect the phlegm Mfore you draw olf the aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of Water. As the anise contains an acid salt, which renders this liqueur milky, the following proceeding is neces- sary :—Reserve a pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix with the white of three or lour eggs, well whipped, and while the syrup is hot put to it this egg water and the aniseed water; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot without boiling: then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day bottle and filter it. ANISETTE de Bordeaux." — Take two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alembic bain-marie. Then dis- solve thirteen pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water, which must be put to your liqueur when distilled. Filter and bottle it. APPLES.*—Cooks,in choosyigapples for culinary purposes, shoulu'always be guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particu- larly to be taken, which, upon being pressed by the thumb, yield with a'slight cracking noise. Large apples possessing these qualities should be taken in pre- ference to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The follow- ing is a good selection of large kitchen apples, arranged in the order of their maturity:— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher, and Irish Codlin. Hawthornden. Hoi land bury Pi ppin,called also Kirke’s Scarlet Admirable. Wormsley Pippin. Blenheim Orange, called also Wood- stock Pippin. Dutch Codlin. Beauty of Kent. Dumelow’s Seedling, called also Wel- lington. Yorkshire Greening. Royal Russet. _ For very early use the Carlisle codlin IS the best, but it is not large ; for very late use the London pippin, the French crab, and the Norfolk beaufin, are valu- able : the last is well known, as furnish- ing the dried apples, which are called beefins. Apples. Black-caps.—Divide twelve large apples in halves, core them, and place them on a thi n patty pan or mazarine, quite close to each other, with the flat side downwards ; squeeze a lemon into two spoonsful of orange flower water, which pouroverthem; shred finesome le- mon peel, throw it over them, and grate