SOL SOR ( 455 ) ii flour, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them, lay on a dish, and serve with tomata sauce. I Soles, d la Maymmaise.*—Fry four or ;i five pairs of soles; when cold, lay them li on a gridiron, over a slow fire, not to heat through, but to allow the skin to be li raised easily 5 while they are on the fire, > detach the fillets, and then take off the i| skins, and cut your fillets into square [ pieces; dip each of these into a mayon- II naise, and lay them neatly in a mould, li until it is full; then make the mayonnaise 1 warm, pour it into the mould, cover, and i; set it on ice; when the sauce is congeal- ed, turn it on a dish, garnish with crou- a tons, gherkins, anchovies, &c. I Soles, with Mushrooms.—Put a quart i of milk into a stewpan, or fish-kettle, d with the same quantity of water, a bit of 1^ butter, salt, and a little lemon-juice; l| then put in the soles, and set the stew- f pan over a moderate fire, and let them ( simmer very gently till done ; then take t them up, place them on a cloth or nap- I kin, to imbibe all the liquor from them ; li lay them on a dish, and pour over them ij a good mushroom sauce. i Soles, cn Paupiettes,*—Prepare your soles exactly like salmon en bai-il; but instead of baking them, boil the paupi- ettes in a court-bouillon. Serve them il with an Italicnne. I Soles, jn Sallad.* — See Salmon, in 1] Sallad. I Sole Pie.—Boil t«o pounds of eels d until quite tender, then pick the flesh I from the bones, and put the latter into i the liquor the eels were boiled in, with a J blade of mace, and some salt; let them t boil till the liquor is reduced to a quar- I ter of a pint, then strain it; cut the flesh of the eel very fine, and mix it vvith a little lemon-peel, cut small, a little salt, i pepper, nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, parsley, chopped fine, and an anchovy, a minced ; mix the whole with a quarter of a pound of butter, and then lay this forcemeat in a pie dish; cut the meat from a very fine pair of soles, and put I into the dish upon the forcemeat, pour i in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. Soles, d la Plat.*—Melt some butter, and pour it into a dish, with some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; then lay in a pair of soles (well cleaned and dried), spread sweet herbs, shred over them, and sea- Fon with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add a glass of white wine, and cover the whole ■with bread-crumbs, moistened by a few drops of butter; set this dish in a mode- rate oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. Soles, Stuffed.* — Make a farce of whiting or perch, minced very small, and mixed with butter, sweet herbs, morels, kneaded together by yolks ef eggs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff' them with this farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SoRHEL, d la Botirgeoise.*—V\ck and wash as much sorrel as you may want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, and putit intoasaucepan,setiton the fire; when the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water, put it into a cullender ; then fry it lightly in a little butter. Put two spoonsful of flour into a basin, beat an egg up with it, then add another egg, and when that is well beaten with the flour, pour in a glass of milk, and then mix il with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it, until it has boiled a quarter of an hour; dish it, and serve with either poached or hard eggs. SoRBEL, in Gravy.*^—Mince, and put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, parsley, and scallions ; add a glass of consomme I set it over a moderate fire, and when quite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. Sorrel, Omelet of.—Pick, wash, and blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred parsley and scallions; then put the sor- rel into a saucepan, with a little cream; season, and let it boil slowly: in the meantime make an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. Sorrel (Pwr^e o/).*—Take as much sorrel as you may require for a dish ; take also three or four hearts of lettuces, and a handful of chervil, both picked and shred small, and then press them well to extract all the moisture ; put them into a saucepan, with some butter, champig- nons, shalots, and parsley, all chopped small, (ihcFe last fried lightly in butter); put the sorrel on these, and dress it; when sufficiently done, add four ladiesful of veloute, and the yolks of five or six eggs; strain it through a bolting cloth, and put it aside till wanted. To make this purcemaigre prepare the sorrel as above, but instead of the veloute, mix the yolks of six eggs with two des- sert spoonsful of flour, and three vlasscs of milk, and then put it in ; reduce it over a brisk fire, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon ; then strain it thtough a bolting cloth, and keep it hot till wanted.