20 APP APP in a tart pan, CRg and prick it all over; and bake it; lay it in a pnrde of apples, and finish with white of egg, as for a la Turque ; serve it hot. Apples Meringuiesinform of a Hedge- hog.'—Choose forty sound renneting apples; take out their cores, and turn fifteen of them, putting them as you t)irn them into cold water, (prepared the same as for the Apples sudcloise for the ponti colonnes); when you have turned eight of the apples, boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; when they are sufficiently done (which is when they are a little firm) take them out of the syrup and boil the other seven, which you must turn whilst the other eight are boiling; when these are done, add to the remaining syrup the zest of a lemon, and put into it the remaining five and twenty apples nicely peeled and cut into thin slices; cover them closely, and let them boil over a moderate fire until they are quite tender; then beat them with a spatula till they are reduced to a complete marmalade. Then pass it through a sieve and add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade. When it is cold spread two spoonsful of it on a dish, then take nine of the largest of the turned apples (filling up the place of the core with apricot marmalade), and place them on the marmalade in the dish, put- ting apple marmalade between each of them. Then fill up with apricot marma- lade the place of the cores in the other six apples, and put five of them over the nine in the dish, filling up the spaces with more apple marmalade, and place your remaining apple at the top. With the rest of the apple marmalade, mask your apples in such a manner, that the entre- vtet forms a complete dome; then mix up pretty firm the whites of two eggs with two spoonsful of powder sugar; when it is well mixed, mask the apples all over with it as equally as possible, then strew it over with powder sugar, and stick it all over with pieces of sweet almonds, (every almond must be cut into five equal strips), at about the distance of three eighths from each other (the best way of sticking in these strips of almonds is by piercing the meringue of apples with the oint of a silver skewer). Your entremet eing finished, strew over it some powder sugar. Let it bake in a moderate oven ; ten minutes will be sufficient to do it of a nice light colour. Serve it hot. This entremet is very delicious, and is ex- tremely pretty in appearance, but takes a long time to prepare, and requires the greatest attention. 'I'liisdish is generally garnished with pistachio nuts. Apples Miraton.—Pare neatly, and scoop out the cores of a dozen and a half of apples : cut them in very thin slices, have a pan the size of your dish ready ; butter and spread some apricot jam over the bottom; place your apples over one another in a miroton round the pan, and fill up the centre with the odd bits; spread jam and sugar over it, then lay another circle of apples the reverse way to the first row, and so proceed till you have laid five or six rows; spread itover with jam, and bake it in a moderate oven; when done, carefully turn it on a dish, and serve it hot. Apples Pralinies a la vanille. Mosaic Tartlets of.'—Make a marmalade with a dozen apples, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a half clove of vanilla, minced very small; when done and cold, mix with it two spoonsful of apricot marma- lade. Fill your tartlets with this, cover them with the mosaic as directed (see Mosaic Tartlets), and mask them with a quarter of a pound of almonds chopped small, and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar and a very little white of egg ; press these lightly all over the sur- face of your tartlets, strew powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven till of a clear reddish tinge. Apples U la None.—Prepare a dozen and a half of apples as for a la Turque ; let them be cold; roll out a thin tart paste, cut it in lengths of a foot and a half with a jigging iron,and twine it round the apples; fill them with preserved cher- ries and powder sugar, close and egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve them hot. Apple Paste.'—Pare and core what- ever number of apples you may require, and having boiled them with a little cin- namon and lemon-peel to a pulp, pass them through a sieve ; dry the marma- lade. Weigh it and boil an equal weight ofsugarto;)ef«Ao?t/^; then mix the fruit with it, and boil the whole to a proper consistence; when done put it into moulds, which place in a stove to dry the paste. Apple Pie with Muscadel plums.'— Peel twenty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into five or .six pieces; toss them in a pan with four ounces of sugar in pouder. (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), four ounces of butter luke warm, and four ounces of fine muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish with a good puli'paste, then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puli'paste a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, glaze with the white of .an egg.and strew sugar over it. Let it bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. Apples d la Portu^aise.'—Pare. core, and cut your apples in hall; place them