R O O ( 439 ) R 0 S dish ; pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils, fry some sai?e and parsley crisp; lay it on the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROCAMBOLE, or IVild Garlic.*— Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water ; set them on the fire, until they will yield easily to pressure, then throw them into cold w'ater. Reduce some velouti, tXnckcn it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain, and put them in ; give them a toss over the fii e, and then serve. ROLLS.—Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then add a spoonful and a half of yeast of small-beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put in the above. Set it to rise for an hour ; knead it well; make it into seven rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. Rolls {French).— Rub one ounce of butter into a pound of flour; then add to it oqe egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make a dough of moderate stilfness. Beat it well, but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake on tins. Rolls (.French).—Warm three spoons- ful of milk, and the same quantity of water, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, put it to two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of a batter- pudding, adding more flour if necessary, to make it the proper thickness; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold,'set itat a little dis- tance from the fire; do this three hours before it is put into the oven; when it breaks a good deal through the flour and rises, work it into a light paste v/ith more warm milk and water; let it lie till with- in a quarter of an hour of setting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls ; flour a tin, and drop them on, handle them as little as possible; set them before the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them ; put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. Rolls Short (Hot).*—Dry before the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make three penny rolls, or larger if you like; add to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two spoonsliil of yeast, and a little warm milk; make it into a light dough, let it stand by the fire all nigbt. Bake the rolls in a quick oven. ROOTS (Fetites Racines).* — Cut some young carrots into small pieces about an inch and a half long, make them round, and keep all as near of a size as possible; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil five mi- nutes, then change them into cold water. and finish like Rocamboles (see that ar- ticle). ROSES, Candied.*—Cusp two hands- ful of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, boil them to fort sovjffle, then take the pan from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, then dry them in a stove. Boil your sugar again to souffle., adding a little carmine to colour it, and finish it in the same manner as Jo7igziils, Candied. (See that article.) Roses, Conserve of.*—Boil half a pound of sugar to fort souffle., pour into this sy- rup the best double-distilled rose- water ; boil it again to fort perle, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or car- mine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. Rose (Red) Drops.* — Take a small quantity of red basted saffron, and a little calcined alum, boil these in some water until it is sufficiently tinged for your purpose ; then filter or strain it through a very close linen cloth ; put five or six spoonsful of sifted sugar into the pan, dilute itvyiththe coloured wa- ter, work it well with the bois d labeller, and set it oyer a chafing-dish; when it begins to boil, add two more spoonsful of sugar, and having worked it well, per- fume it with some drops of essence of roses, and finish as directed. (See Orange-flower Drops.) Rose Gateaux Souflles.* — Take a handful of rose-leaves and a pound of sugar; boil the latter to petit boitle or petit casse, then put in the roses, increase the boiling to casse ; have ready o.glace royale, made with the white of an egg, tinged a delicate rose-colour with a little carmine, mix this with your syrup and roses, stir-ring it rapidly; when the su- gar rises the second time, pour it into the mould. Rose Ice Cream.*—Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, whenitboils takeitofl'andputinahandful ol fresh rose-leaves ; leave them to infuse, keep them covered for two hours ; then, if the eream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, add three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar; set it on a slow fire, and stir it constantly till it thickens, biking care that it does not boil. Run it through a bolting, and when cold, colour it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified su- gar ; put it into a saboticre, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Rose Jelly.*—Make a clear apple- jelly, colour it with cochineal infused in double-distilled rose-water, and just be- fore the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double-distilled rose-water.