B RE ( 81 ) B R E nearly Loils, tlien put it into the cask; bung it close, sliake it about for a few minutes, and let it remain two hours— then take out the bnng, and let the va- pour escape; fasten it down again, give It another shaking, and let it remain two hours more. After this, cleanse the cask thoroughly with cold water,not ceasing until it comes out perfectly clean and untainted. This done, have ready a liquo.’’, made with half a pound ef bay salt, and two ounces of alum boiled in water; wash the cask well with this, and cleanse the cask as before with water, after which the cask will be fit for use. The Cellar.—A good brewer, cellar- man, &c. will take delight in the well- ordering of the cellar. Attention must be paid to cleanliness both in his person and business ; every thing in the cellar consequently should be kept in due order. The brewer, or cellar-man to the nobleman, or gentleman, who maintains a large establishment, should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent— During the summer months, have the beer cellars and stairs clean washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily, into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds; for the cellars, on opening, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these offices, the cellars are not only pleasant to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during the hot tnonths; whereas, by inattention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months, scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, alt cellars, in the winter, cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great atten- tion on this point, the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be provided for cellars to large establish- ments. Those families who brew on a smaller scale, will apply their uses, according to their proportionate con- venience. Suitable shot, and lead canister, with holes in bottom, and two eloths to wash bottles, to be kept in the bottle rack. Two suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to stand on. strain cocks, bungs, corks, vent pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers, to draw pegs, and cork drawer. A leather boot to buckle on the knee, to contain the bottles when corking them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy, mahogany cork driver. Six strong prickles to be kept in a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs; the old hoj) sacks will serve. Si.x tin spouts, the size of a beer cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker’s shovel at the bottom, for the beer to work through, from the top cork hole, with brown paper round the top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A middle sized cooper’s gimblet, the size of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of strong brown paper to put round cocks, and another quire to make hop bags with. Two large strong sponges to clean the outsides of the casks, &c- A pair of slings to grapple the casks with, to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turners, (being much superior to pegs, which are wasteful), to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and iron driver, such as the coopers use, to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks, for cellar candlesticks. Six iron-bound tap tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whislf, for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A six gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delph labels_ to hang on the fops of all the liquor bins, as claret, champaign, sherry, calcavella, porter, cider, perry, port, rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and vatench. Four, or six ice pails, for wines, &c. in summer. A wine basket, made, to hold the bottles that are crust- ed on their sides, to bring from the cellar in that position. A raising jack, to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A pulley and ropes to let wine and liquor down into the cellars. A wine bit of various sizes, to bore the casks with. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong iron-bound pails. A Gun- ter’s guagerule. A stamped bushel mea- sure, to measure the malt, with a strike. A small cooper’s adze. A pair of stil- yards to weigh the hops, or scales, with stamped lead or iron weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off". A large wood ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leather apron, with a pocket before, for pegs, See., and bib to button up on the waistcoat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common cork screw. An iron-bound wine can,