•3 ) CUR CUR (2 moisten it witii gravy or broth, of each a like quantity ; then put in some pars- ley, and basij, a whole leek, a bay-leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls ; let all these simmer together for three quarters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ra- gofits. CuLLis of Roots.— Cut some carrots, parsnips,parsley roots, and onions, into slices, and put,them into a stewpan over the fire, and shape them round. Take two dozen of blanched almonds, and the crumb of two French rolls, soaked first in good fish broth. Pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all toge- ther Season it with pepper and salt, strain it off, and use it for herb or fish soups. CuLLis, JVhite.—Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of bam, and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with broth, seasoned with mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, three cloves, and so let it stew. Being stewed, take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it sieu-softly; take the white of a fowl, or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; being well pounded, mi.'citin the cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white ; but if not white enough, pound two dozen of sweet almonds blanched, and put it into the cullis ; then boil a glass of milk, and add it to the cullis; let it be of a good flavour, and strain it off'; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and biscuits. CUR.ACAO.*—This is a species of bit- ter or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, and maybe had at the druggists. To make the liqueur called by this name, wash a pound of curayao several times in warm water ; then, having well drained, put them info a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and one of water; let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently ; distil it after that in the usual way, anddr.ain the curayao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints of water, mix it with the spirit and then fiiterit. CURD Cakes.—Take a quart of curds, eiglit eggs, leaving out four whites; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat but- ter, in a fryingpan, drop them in, and Iry like fritters. Cunps Cream.—Put what quan- tity of milk you please into a pan, made rather warm, then add rennet. AFhen the curd is come, lade, it with a shape, into an earthen shape, perforated, of any form you please. As the whey drains, till it up, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours be- fore it is wanted, it will be very light, but for those who'like it harder, it should be made earlier, and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, should be put into the dish or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Cunn Pudding {Boiled). — Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, through a sieve; then mix with it six eggs, a little cream, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grat- ed, three spoonsful of flour, and three spoonsful of bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. Curd Puddings or Puffs..—Turn two quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve; then add to it four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, two spoonsful of cream, and half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts full. Bake them carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. Curd Puffs.—Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, drain it dry, add to it the yolks of seven eggs, and the whites of two, sugar, rose-water, nutmeg and bread-crumbs ; make into a paste, cut in what shape you please, frytliem in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. Curd Star.—Pnt a quart of new milk over the tire with a few blades of mace : and when ready to boil, add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs «ell beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a_ small knife. Let it boil till the whey is clear ; then drain it on a thin cloth, or hair sieve, season it with sugar and a little cinnamon, rose water, orange- flower water or white wine, to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you please. Leave it to stand for some hours before youtnrn it into a dish ; then put round it a thick cream or cus- tard. Cimns 07id IVhey.—Take a number of tne rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and liana tliem to dry. Tbi.s makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. VVlien to be used, break off'some bits of the skin, and put