P I G PI G 402 ed, pour in a pint of good stock, as much white wine, and let it stew for five or six hours ; then take it out, and keep it hot'; dress some young peas in the sauce, and having glazed the quarters, lay them in a dish, and the peas round. Pio (S7ickhig).—A sucking pig is in prime order for the spit when it is about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can make the crackling crisp. To be eaten in perfeetion, it should be dressed the same day that it is killed ; it requires very careful roasting, and should not be left for an instant. The ends must have much more fire than the middle; for this purpose is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig-iro7i. Roast it at a clear brisk fire, at some distance. The crackling must be nicely crisped, and delicately and lightly browned, witliout being either blistered or burnt. Pig’s {Sticking) Feet.—Blanch two or three sets of . feet and the plucks, then put the feet into half a pint of water, with a couple of sbalots, a small quantity of sage, and parsley chopped fine, some pounded nutmeg and mace, a very little of each; when the feet are three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced, mince the pluck, and put ii to the feet with some cullis, half a table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, and a table-spoonful of white wine; season according to taste, with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Stew the feet till they are tender, and serve with sippets of bread round them, either plain or fried. Pio {Sucking) Fillets of, en Chemise.* —Take what remains from a cold roast pig, and cut it into small slices ; make a fwce of the liver, heart, and marrow of the animal, some streaky bacon, bread soaked in milk, and yolks of eggs, season it moderately. Take some sheep’s caul, cut it into pieces the size of your hand, upon each of which lay some of Xhejarce, and a slice of the pig; cover these with the/arceand another piece of caul, fix the edges together with beaten egg, bread and broil them slowly. Pig {Sucking) d la Pere Douillette.— Take a sucking pig, cut ofl' its head, and cut the pig into four quarters, put them to stew between bards of fat baconj with tiie head split and laid in the middle, covering the whole with a good braise, adding nearly half a bottle of sherry, with a bay-leaf, carrots, onions, parsley, a small piece of garlic, and some salt; let the whole stew gently between two fires for the space of half an hour; then take it up, and lay it in a stewpan, with a little of the braise it was stewed in, and set it by the fire; pass the remainder through a sieve into another stewpan; put this on the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in five good spoonsful of plain sauce; when that boils, put in some truffles, mushrooms, morels, fat livers, and let it boil till nearly as tliick as sauces in general. Having taken up the stewed pig, and laid it on a dish, cut a sweetbread (previously stewed) into slices, and lay ihem round the pig, put a liaison of the yolks of two eggs, and a little cream into the sauce, with the other tilings; add the juice of half a lemon, and pour the whole over the pig; be careful that it is very hot, but take care that it does not boil after the eggs are put in. Pig {Sucking) Roasted.—A pig ta roast is best from three to four weeks old. Pre- pare a stuffing with slices of bread and butter, sprinkled well_ with chopped sage, and seasoned with pepper and salt, laying five or six slices one upon another, and put them into the inside of the pig ; skewer it well, to prevent it from falling out, and then spit it, pre- viously rubbing it over with sweet oil; put it down before a moderate fire to roast for two hours, more or less, accord- ing to its size; when thoroughly done, take off tlie head, and split the pig straight down the back (there must be a dish under ready' to receive it); then dish up the two halves, and splitting the head, lay half at each end of the dish, pour some good strong gravy under it, and serve hot. Or you may take out the stuff- ing, and mix it with some melted butter, and serve it as a sauce ; or sausage-meat may be put inside the pig, instead of the bread and sage. Some persons prefer having the pig baked, instead of toasted, it is equally good either way. Pio {Sucking) to Scald. — The instant the pig is killed, put it for a few minutM into cold water: then pound a little resin extremely fine, .and rub the pig all over with it, and then put it, for half a minute, into a pail of scaldingwater; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull oft' the hair as quickly as possible; if any part docs not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remaia. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it ihoroiiglily, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep ii Irom the air. Pio {Sucking) Stuffed. — Having