B EA BEA (41) water, let it boil, skim it very clean, boil half away, and strain it ofl'. Siveeten accoi-ding to taste, and put in two glasses of white wine, or some lemon juice. Drink it warm. Bauley IVine,—Boil half a pound of French barley in three waters, save about three pints of the last water, and mix it with a quart of white wine, lialf a pint of borage water, as much clary water, a li t- tle red rose water, the juice of five or six lemons, three quarters of a pound of sugar, the rind of a lemon. Strain and bottle it up. B ASIL Vinegar or (Vine.—Fill a wide mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of Basil, and cover tliem with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days ; if you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BATH Btins.—Rub together, with the hand, one pound of fine flour and half a pound ol butter; beat six eggs, and add them to the flour with a table spoonful ofgood yeast. Mixthemaltogether with halfa teacup fullof milk; set itin a warm place for an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, and a few carraway seeds. Mould them into buns with a table spoon on a baking plate ; throw six or eight car- raway comfits on each, and bake them in a hotoven about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen buns. BATTER for Fish, Meat, Fritters, &(c.—Prepare it with fine flour, salt, a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and the whites of eggs beat up ; when of a pro- perthickness it will drop out of the spoon about the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil or hog’s lard. Batter Pudding.—Take six spoonsful of flour, put them in astewpan with about a tea spoonful of salt and half a nutmeg grated ; mix this up with about a pint and a half of new milk; beat up six eggs in a basin and stir them well in the bat- ter ; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half ; serve with wine sauce. This, pudding may also be baked, for which three quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Batter Pudding without Eggs.—Mix six spoonsful of flour with a small por- tion of a quart of milk ; and when smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea spoonsful of salt, two tea spoonsful of grated ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit may be added or not. BEANS d I’Anglaise.'—Cut, wash, and boil the beans, and then throw them into a cullender. Pul a piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the beans on it, and garnish them with chopped parsley laid round like a cord ; heat the dish and serve. Beans Boiled.—Boil them in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Boil and chop parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. Another xuay.—Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savoury; drain,and then put them into a ste'vpan with five spoons- ful of sauce tournie reduced, the yolks of three eggs and a little salt, add apiece of fiesh butter, and stir it constantly till of a proper thickness. Bean Bread.—Is made in the same way as almond bread; leave out the musk or ambergris, if you please. Bean Cakes.—Take an equal quantity of fine sugar and blanched almonds cut in slips lengthways; slice some preserved orange, lemon, and citron peel; beat the white of an egg to a froth with a little orange flower water ; put as much of it into tlie sugar as will just wet it; and with the point of a knife build up your almonds, piling it round as high as you can upon a wafer; put some ambergris also to your sugar, and bake them. Beans it la Creme.—Are done in the same way as a la Macedoine, omitting the artichokes and wine ; but when strewed, thicken with cream and yolks of eggs. Beans <i la Macedoine.—Shred some parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and savory, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butler rolled in flour; moisten with stock and white wine; let it boil over a slow fire : then put in three artichoke bottoms, previously blanched inboilingwater.and cutin small squares, with a quartern of young garden beans, the skins off, and parboiled ; stew them, season with salt and pepper, take out the herbs, and serve the beans with the sauce thick. Beans with Parsnips.—Take two large parsnips, scrape them clean, and boil them in water. When tender take them up, scrape all the soft into a saucepan, add to them four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter of the size of a hen’s egg, chop them in a saucepan well ; and when they are quite thick, heap them up in the middle of the dish, and a ragout of beans all round. Beans <1/ft Poulette.*—Put them into a stewpan with some butter, parsley, green onions and a little savoury; shake them over the fire, add a little flour, a lump of sugar and a little stock. When done put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up with a little milk. Beans (Parte of white).—Chop some onions, and fry them lightly in a little E 3