CAR CAR 119 I CARP.—Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. Tlie same signs of fresh- ness attend tliem as other fish. Carp.*—When it is large, it is served au bleu as a roast, having drawn and taken out its gills (it should not be scaled), put it upon a large dish, boil some vinegar, and whilst it is boiling hot pour it over the carp, this will turn it blue; then dress it in a thick bouillon. Roast.—\y\m\ it is done, serve it upon a napkin, garnished with green parsley, as a dish of roast ?naigi'e. Carp au if toe.*—Clean your carp, and put it into a fish-kettle with some small onions, a good piece of butter, worked up with some flour; moisten it with two glasses of white wine, and one glass of water; let it boil quickly for an hour and a half; when done, and the sauce thick, serve it on a hot dish: you must be careful not to let the sauce be too thick. Carp Boiled in fVine.—’Tak& the liver of the carp clean from the guts, three anchovies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion; chop them together, and take half a pint of rhenish wine, four spoons- ful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp; stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water, with a little salt, and half a pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce, let it not be done too much. Carp, Broiled.*—Clean your carp, cut oft'the tail and the fins; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweet herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about half an inch deep, rub it with a piece of fresh butter, and cover it all over with crumbs of bread and parsley, chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and serve with whatever sauce you think best. Carp Broiled with Caper Sauce.— Having scaled and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, and broil by a moderate fire; when done, serve with caper sauce. Carp « la Chamhord.*—Clean, scale, and well wash a fine carp; skin it, and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail; put it into a fisli-keitle, with a rich or mai- gre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweet- I breads, Cray fish, toasted bread, arti- ! choke bottoms, boiled with the carp; ' reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. CARPuir Commissaire.*—Scale, clean, take out the gills, and skin a fine carp, lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a/rwee of sweetbreads, truflles, fat livers, bacon and chicken, or any other poultry; cut up the whole into small dice, stuff' your carp, and sew vip the opening fast. Put into a stewpan two slices of bacon and two slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and veal, and cover your carp with two more slices of veal, let the whole sweat over a gentle fire ; and when the veal begins to colour, pour into the stewpan a bottle of burgundy, and a pint, of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon ; let the whole boil slowly for three hours. When the carp is done, serve it upon a dish over hot water; strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consistence, and pour it boiling over your fish ; it is usually glazed with veal gravy, consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine clear golden colour ; garr nish your dish with Cray fish, sweet- breads, truflles, morels, artichoke bot- toms, or any other kind of garniture which the season may afford. Carp au Courle Bouillon.* — Wash, scale, and clean a carp, take out the gills, and put into the body a piece of butter worked up with some flour; boil a glass of vinegar, and whilst it is boiling pour it over your fish; add to it some salt, pepper, laurel, a pint of wine, and two slices of lemon; cook it for two hours, drain it, serve it on a napkin, and strew over it some green parsley. Carp d la i>a?<ie.*—Scale and clean a fine carp ; if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some good bouillon, a pint of Cham- pagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the juice ol a lemon ; let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper consistence: serve it hot. Carp Dressed icith Eels.*—Clean,and cook in a siewpan, some carp whole, tvith some eels cut in pieces, and the bone taken out; add some bouillon, either rich or maigre, white wine, and sweet 1 ‘u done, dish your carp, with the eels properly ranged round ; reduce the sauce, and serve it over the hsh. Carp, Entree of.*—Take a fine carp, clean and scale it, chop up some parsley, scallion, shalots, tarragon, and other fine herbs; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it I