I MUS when perfectly dry, put them into bags, which keep in a dry open place, shaking them often. Another method of preserving mush- rooms is, by putting them either in oil, saltwater, or vinegar, with garlic, pep- per, and salt, and when they arc wanted, soak them in warm water or milk. Mushrooms, to keep*_—Choose your mushrooms very white, firm, and fresh gathered, pick and wash them ; then put them into a ste.wpan with some good fresh butter, or tiie best olive oil; set the pan on tlie fire, and leave them until they have given out all their water, and then until that water is half evaporated, they may then be taken from the fire and pul into a pan ; when cold, put them into bottles, wnich set in a bain marie. Mushrooms, to keep in Salt and JVater.—Thoroughly clean them ; boil them tender in water and a little salt; dry them with a cloth ; make a strong brine; when cold, put in the mush- rooms ; at the end of a fortnight change the brine ; put them into small bottles, and pour oil on the top. When you want to use them forragoflt, &c., lay them first in warm water. Mushroom Ketchup. — Choose the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, sprinkle salt over them, and stir them now and then for three successive days. Then let them stand for twelve days, until there is a thick scum over them; strain, and boil the liquor witli Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a few cloves, and some mustard-seed. When cold, put it into bottles, and tie a bladder over the cork ; at the end of three months it should be boiled again, with fresh spices, and it may then be kept for twelve months. Mushrooms in a Marinade.^ Fried.— Choose some good button mushrooms, peel them, and put them for one day into a pickle of half vinegar and half water, salt, one clove of garlic, peppercorns, parsley, carrots, and onions ; have some good fresh lard on the fire, take the mushrooms out of the pickle, chop them in flour, and fry them in the hot lard, laying them on paper as you do them ; serve them with a sharp sauce, made with three table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mixed with a little glaze, and the juice of nearly half a lemon. Mushrooms Pickled. — Button mush- rooms should be rubbed with a bit of flan- nel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides; when they are black they will not do, being too old. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and put them into astewpnn, with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, ( 339 ) MUS and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again, then put as much vinegar into the pan as will be suflicient to cover them ; give it one warm, and turn the whole into a glass or stone jar. They will keep for two years. Mushrooms Pickled.*—Boil them in milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel. Boil some vinegar with mace, nutmeg, and ginger, and let it stand till cold, then nut it to the mushrooms, and bottle it; wlien bottled, pour in a little sweet oil before tying on the bladders. Mushrooms, to Pickle fVhite.—CiitofT the stalks of some small button mush- rooms, rub the skins off with flannel dip- ped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them close, and put them over a gentle stove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold. Mushroom Powder.* — Take half a peck of large mushrooms, wash them clean from grit, cut off the stalks, put them into a saucepan without any water, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pepper powdered, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some allspice and nutmeg if you like, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay them on sieves to dry, till they will beat to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down close for use; a tea-spoonful added to gravy or soup, a minute or two before it is taken off the fire, gives a fine fla- vour. Mushroom Powder.—After the mush- rooms or champignons are dried whole, they may be set before the fire till crisp ; then grind and sift them through a line, sieve, and preserve in small bottles closely corked. Mushrooms, Quintessence of. — This delicate relish is obtained, by sprinkling some button or flap mushrooms over with a little salt, and three hours after, masli them; the following day, strain off the liquor that will flow from them, and boil it in a stewpan till reduced to half. It will not keep long, but many prefer it on account of the flavour of the mushrooms not being overpowered by the spices, which it is necessary to put into ketchup to preserve them. Mushrooji Loaves.—Wash some small button mushrooms, the same as for pick- ling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water; add to them a little cream, a bit of butler rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Boil these up, take the crumb out 2 G 2