S U G t 4G-2 ) S U G Lie. AVlien it is melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. VVLen it has caked finite hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in line paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry, but not in a hot place. When you ivish to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust, either with or without butter. Suet Pudding.—Mix a pound and a quarter of flour, to a pound of shred suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Let it boil for four hours. It eats very nice the next day, cut in slices and broiled. Suet Pudding.—Vv\t six spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg and ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt, then put in a pound and a half of beef suet chopped fine ; stir these well together, and then mix in a quart of milk, and six eggs, well beaten together ; butter, a basin, and shake some flour round it, put in your batter, and boil it for two hours and a half, or three hours. - Suet Pudding.—Tdka half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted sugar; mix all these together with a little milk, to a moderate consistence. It may either be boiled or baked. Suet Pudding.—Chop half a pound of beef suet very line, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little s.alt, a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger; mix all tliese well together ■with.milk to a moderate consistence. It may be either baked or boiled. SUGAR {To Clarify).* — Ta\iQ four pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces; put into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass of pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add another glass, still whipping, until two quarts of •B'ater have been put in; when the pan is full of froth, throw in the sugar,_ and set it on tlie fire, being careful to skim it every time the scum rises, rvhich will be the case as the sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the edges of the pan, to prevent winch, thiow on it a little cold water; this will lower it instantly, and give time for the skimming, for the scum should never be taken ofl'whilst the sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and that is the moment to skim it. Repeat tins operation carefully three or four times, widen a whitish light scum only will rise; then take the pan ofli lay a napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin,and pour the sugar through it. The scum thus taken ofl', put info a china basin; and when the sugar is cla- rified, wash the pan and the skimmer with a glass of water, whicli put to ihe scum, and set it aside for more common purposes. SuGanj Different Degrees of Prepar- ing. — The various purposes to which sugar is applied, require it to be in dif- ferent state.s ; tliese are called degrees, and are thirteen in number, called as follows: Petit Lisse, or First Degree.—Replace the clarified sugar in the preserving-pan, to boil gently, lake a drop of it on the thumb, touch it with the fore-finger; if, on opening them, it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking, forms two droi« on each finger, it is at the right point. Lisse, Second Degree.—A little more boiling brings it to this point; when the thread will draw further before it breaks. Petit Perle, Third Degree.— At this point the thread may be drawn as far as the span will open, without breaking. Grand Perle, Fourth De^ee. — On still increasing the boiling, little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugar. Petit Queue de Cochon, Fifth Degree. —Take up some of the sugar on a skim- mer, and drop it on the rest, when it should form a slanting streak on the sur- face. Boil it a little longer, and it wilL reach the Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth De- gree. —The streak or tail is now larger. Souffle, Seventh Degree.— Take out a skimmei ful of the sugar, blow through it, and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. — The same proof ns above ; the spai ks should be laiger and stronger. Grande Plume. Ninth Degree.—Take the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give it a shake, and if the sparks are large, and adhere tegelher on rising, it is at ti e right point. Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. — Dip your fingers in cold water, and then into the sugar instantly, and again into the water, when the sugar will roll into a ball, wliich will be supple when cold. Gros Jioulei, Eleventh Degree.—At this point, the b.ill or bullet will be harder wlien cold than at the last. Cause, Twelfth Degree. — Prove as above ; tlie btillet should crumble Ix*- tween the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the teeth ; at tlie next point, Caramel. Thirteenth Degree, — it should simp clean. This point is very diflienlt to attain, for in increasing^ the liciglit, the sugar is apt to burn ; ir is better therefore to try the proof very frequently.