GAR ( 260 GAR Game Pudding.*—Trim and truss a sufficient quantity of small birds, such as quails, jarks, thrushes, &c., and fry tliem lightly in butter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other sea- soning you please; then make a thick, stiff paste, in which put the game, close paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a large saucepan of boiling water ; when it has boiled an hour, tiike it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cullis, or espagnole, close it again, and then serve it hot. Game, Puree of.*—Pound the meat of any sort of game you think proper, with a little panada, and moisten it with con- somme. Break the bones, and boil them in some good broth, which add to the. puree., and a small piece of butter ; boil all together a few minutes, and then serve it poured overbread. Game Soup.*—Put into a moderate sized saucepan three pounds of beef- steaks, four old partridges, a knuckle of veal, a pheasant, carrots, onions, four heads of celei'y, three cloves, and a bunch of fennel; while it is doing, take three cold roasted partridges, and pound them in a mortar, with a piece of crumb of bread, about three times as big as an egg, and previously snaked in broth ; moisten the partridges also with broth, and when sufficiently pounded, pass it through a sieve ; put to the prow some of the broth, and set it on a gentle fire for some time, taking care that it does not boil. Dip your bread in the usual manner in the soup, (made as directed above,) and serve. GARBURE d la Bearnohe.*—Blanch four cabbages and a dozen lettuces, put them into a braising pan, with a piece of sa-eaked bacon, an equal quantity of bam, previously soaked, a sausage with- out garlic, and the legs of a goose, some broth without salt, a bunch of parsley, some roots, and two onions, a clove stuck in each; let these stand over the fire till tlioroughly done, then drain the meat and vegetables separately; strain the liquor, skim, and clarify it;_ t.ake some rye-bread, cut the crumb of it into very thin slices; then have ready a deep dish that will bear the fire, and lay the cabbages, lettuce, bacon and bread dip- ped in the broth, round the inside of the (lish, leaving a space or kind of well in the centre, which fill up with a puree of green pease,lheham,and the legs of goose; cut the sausage into slices, and place them round the edges. Put the dish over a stove that it may gratinez. Serve it with tlie clarified broth in another *^'gakboiie au JIamcau de Chantilly.*— Put three pounds of veal cutlets, a knuckle of veal, two partridges, and two pigeons, into a saucepan, tie these up, that they may not fall to pieces in cook- ing ; fill the saucepan with good stock, or co7isomme, and add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, leek.s, and two cloves. When the meat is sufficiently done, take it from the saucepan, and put it into a deep dish ; lay round it the vegetables, taking care to lay each sort separately; then take forty or fifty carrots, cut them into round pieces, about two inches long; keep them all of the same size: cut as many turnips, otiions, and leeks in a similar manner, boil these also in broth, but not that in which the meat was cook- ed; add sugar sufficient to correct any acidity; the vegetables should be tho- roughly done, but not so much so tis to break; place them round the meat, and then serve it with the broth of the meat, strained in another tureen; no bread is required with this garbure. Gaubure d laPotignaG.*—Takeabout twenty or thirty large chesniits, and throw them into hot water to blanch them, in the same manner as almonds; when the skin is well cleared off, lay some slices of veal and bacon, two bay-leaves, two cloves, six carrots, as many onions, and a bunch of green celery leaves, into a stewpan; put the chesnuts on these; season them with salt and pepper; cover them with slices of bacon; moisten them with broth, and let them simmer for an hour; then if they are done, drain, and cut them in halves ; fill your dish with alternate layers of bread and chesnuts; strain the liquor they were done in over it. and gratinez it, and serve it. Garbure d laVilleroy.*—Take twenty carrots, twenty turnips, a dozen onions, half a dozen heads of celery, the same number of lettuces, a dozen leeks, and a handful or more of chervil; cut the roots into dice, and bruise the lettuces and chervil. Put three quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a pan, and fry first the carrots lightly, then put the turnips, ;ind fry them also lightly, add the leeks and onions ; when these are quite done, put in the lettuces and chervils, and stir the whole together : moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and boil them until sufficiently done, adding a piece of sugar about half thesize of an egg. Then put a layer of bread and vegetables on a dish, (beginning with the bread); strew coarse pepper between each layer, and when your dish is sufficiently full, pour in the liquor without skimming, and set it on the fire. I>et it stand till the gratm is formed, and then serve it. GARLIC Butter Pound half