380 PAR PA R (all well minced); rub this farce through a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan, with a pound of truflies, cut into dice, and a table-spoonful of vcloute or espugnole. Cut a pound of fat bacon into small lar- dons, which roll in four drachms of spiced salt, and two spoonsful of parsley, mush- rooms, and truflies, all shred small ; with some of these lard the partridges withinside, so that the lardons may not penetrate the skin; and with the re- mainder lard a noix of veal. Having thus prepared your ingre- dients, proceed as follovvs: form three- fourths of your paste into a standing crust, eight inches in diameter, and eight in height, into which put about half the farce, spread it smoothly all over the bottom, to form a bed four or five inches thick ; lay open the partridges, strew half their proportion of spiced salt, put in each a spoonful of the farce, and form them into a kind of heart; prick the skins in two or three places with the point of a knife, and lay them on the pie, fill up the interstices w\th farce, and strew over the remaining portion of their spiced salt. Weigh the 7ioix of veal, and according to its weight, take the spiced salt (four drachms to a pound), trim the 7ioix as round as you can, place it on the par- tridges, fill up the space round it with farce ; strew the seasoning over, and cover the whole with a pound of the best butter cut in pieces, and so placed as to form a kind of dome, and on these lay slices of bacon and two bay-leaves. Roll out the remainder of the paste for tlie top, making it eleven inches in diameter; moisten the edges of the pie, and lay the cover on it, make a hole in the middle ; dorez and place the pie in a brisk oven for about teh minutes, then take it out, and tie it in some pasteboard cut for the purpose, and replace it for four hours ; at the end of that time take it out, put a piece of paste over the hole, and leave it to cool. When perfectly cold, cut off the lid carefully, takeout the veal, and put in its place a Salmi Chaiul-froid of partridges; lay these in order, pour the sauce over: replace the lid, and serve it on a folded napkin. These Chaud-froid pies may be com- posed of all kinds of fowl, pheasants, woodcocks, leverets, &c., according to your taste or convenience. P.\BTRinGES 1‘oeles*—Ttike the en- trails, livers, and gizzards, from three partridges (all the same size), through the crop very carefully; beat up three quarters of a pound of butter, a little salt, tlie juice of a lemon, pepper, and pounded aromatics ; fill your partridges with this, and truss them like a fowl; then put them in a stewpan on slices of bacon, cover them with the same and sliced lemon ; pour a pufile over, and simmer for half an hour; then take them out, drain, and serve with a crayfish between each ; make your sauce with espugnole and fumet as usual. Partbidge Potted.— Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, then sea- son them with mace, allspice, white pep- per, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as close as possible. Put plenty of but- ter over them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste, and a paper over that, closely down, and then bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. Partridges {Puree of).*—This puree is made in the same manner as that of fowls, substituting an espugnole travuille, fumet of game for the bechamelle&nA velouti. Partridges ( Quenelles of).—Take the skin and sinews from three young par- tridges ; mince and pound them weil; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf’s udder; pound all three togetlier till tho- roughly incorporated, then add one yoik and two whole eggs; season to your taste, and poach them as usual. (See Quenelles.) Partridges ( Quenelles of) a. la Sefton. —Make some quenelles with the meat of three very young partridges as above directed, and set the preparation on ice. When perfectly cold, form the boudin; poach and serve them with the following sauce ; mix four spoonsful of beqhamelle, with three of double cream, two of a glaze made of game, add a little salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; work these up till quite clear, and then pour it over the quenelles. Partridges to Roast.—Proceed in the same manner as in the directions for roasting pheasants. Partridges {Salmis of).*—Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan ; bruise the remnants, put them into another saucepan, witli six ladiesful of espugnole, six shalots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, a glass of stock, pepper and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half, strain it over the partridges; make the whole hot, but do not let it boil; dish your salmis, dip seme fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay them on the ?’artridges {Salmis qf) de Chasseur.* —Cut up two or three roasted partridges.