( 270 ) GOO GOO Goose Pie {Conunon).—Uaka a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust; half a pound of butter at the top, cut into pieces ; lay on the lid; hake it gently. Goose Pie {Rich).—Bone a goose and a lowl, season them very well; put force- meat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose; put these into a raised crust, fill the corners with a little forcemeat; cut half a pound of butler into pieces, lay them on the top ; put on the cover; bake it well. Servecold. Goose au RagoUt.—Break the breast- bone of the goose, and make it quite flat; when it is skinned, dip it into boiling water; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beat to powder; lard and flour it all over; take nearly a pound of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot, put in the goose ; when it is brown all over, add to it a quart of beef gravy, boiling hot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few small onions, and a bay-leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently; if it is a small goose, an hour will be sufficient; if a large one, it will take half an hour more. Make a ragoflt for it as follows ; cut some turnips, onions, and carrots, as for a harrico of mutton, all boiled enough, half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a saucepan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; take the goose out of the stewpan when done; drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ragofit over it. Goose Roasted. — A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions, chopped small, and mixed with pepper and salt; boil the sage and onion in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped; either will render them less stron;t. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off' the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce, in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. Goose Sinoked.—Take a large stubble goose: take oil'all the fatj dry it tho- roughly inside and out, with a cloth ; wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub itover with some common salt, salt- petre, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar; rub the salts well in, and let it lie a fortnight; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dry. It should hang for a month. Sauce, onions, greens, &c. GOOSEBERRY Cakes.—Bveak the gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain it through a muslin; to one pint of juice a pound of sugar; boil up the juice; strew in the sugar: stir )t well; simmer it well till the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses: dry it in a stove till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on phites. Gooseberries {Green), Compote of.— Give them a little cut on one side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them in hot vvater to scald, till they rise to the top ; then put cold water to them, adding a little salt, to bring them to their na- tural green ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and let them remain in some timq to imbibe the sweet; take them outi and put them in the compotier; reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and pour it over the fruit. This is for green gooseberries; but if you make use of pre- served ones, warm them in their own syrup and a little water, and serve it either hot or cold. These will not keep long, particul.arly if they have been warmed again : if exposed to the air any time, they will lose their colour. Gooseberries (Ripe) Compote of.— Prepare some sugar to the eighth de- gree {petite plume); put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them, if for present use ; if for keeping, refine the sugar still more, by boiling. Gooseberry Cream.—Boil one quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much water as will cover them, stir in about half an ounce of good butter; when they are soft, pulp tiiem through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then beat it up wiih the yolks of four eggs; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. Gooseberry Fool.— Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine Lisbon sugar ; put the jar either in a stove, or in a saucepan of water, over the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, press it through a colan- der ; have ready a sutficient quantity of I new milk, and a tea-cupful of r iw cream, I boiled together, or you may use an egg | instead of the cream; leave it to get | cold, then sweeten well with fine Lis- ) bon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees It with it. , , i. Gooseberry Hops.—Take the largest . green walnut kind, and cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end