360 ORA O II A cold, take tlic fruit out of the syrup, and put them into compotiers; boil the syrup a few times, and as soon as it cools, pour it over the fruit. Oranges (Raw) CompCte o/.*—Cut the upper part of six good oranges, so that you can put them together again so as to appear whole; pierce the pulp in several places with a small knife, and fill the incisions with fine powder-sugar and a little brandy; then replace the pieces you have cut off, and serve the oranges in a dessert dish. Obange Cream.*—Pare the rind ef a Seville orange ^ery thin j squeeze the j nice of four oranges, put it with the peel into a tossing-pan with a pint ofwater and eight ounces of sugar, beat the whites of five eggs, mix all together, set it over a slow fire, stir it one ivay till it looks thick and white, then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold, tlien beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream ; stir it over the fire till ready to boil, then pour it into a basin, stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. Orange Cream, Frothed.—Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange- peel for a short time in the juice ; when the cream is almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. Orange, Croque en Bouches of. * — Pare a dozen fine oranges, and divide each into twelve pieces, all of the same size; scrape off every particle of the white, without breaking the thin skin which contains the juice; when all are done, dip each piece into some sugar boiled to eassefand lightly coloured), and place them in a plain mould of six inches dianieter, and five in height; the first row inclined one way, the second the re- verse way, and so on; lay them at the bottom in a star. As soon as the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it with all possible expedition, ns the moisture of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, that the croque en houche is liable to fall to pieces. Orange Custard.*—Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, four ounces of loaf- sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat them all well together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it till cold; put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthen dish of liot water ; let them stand till they are set, then stick pre- served orange, or orange chips, on the top. 11 may be served hut or cold. Orange (Fine).*—Infuse the peels of a dozen large oranges for some days, in six quarts of the best brandy ; after which add a quart of water, and distil the whole; this will yield about a gtillon of liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of su- gar in seven pints of water; add this syrup to the liqueur, and then strain and bottle it. Oranges (Florentine qf) with Apples. —Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out the pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, chang- ing the water three or four times; then boil them in three or four different waters, then strain the water off, put them and their juice, with a {xiund of sugar, and put them by for use; when they are used, boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water, pare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of the oranges; lay a puff-paste in the dish, and then put in the fruit; cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across ; it may be cut into whatever shape you please. Orange Fool.*—Take the juice of six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well together ; stir it over a slow fire till thick, then put in a small piece of butler, and keep stirring it till cold. Orange Fritters. — Take one or two preserved oranges, cut them into as many pieces as y'ou think proper ; make a gwd thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. Orange Fritters.—Pare off the rind of some oranges, very thin, cut them into quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then drain them, take out the pips, and put the oranges into a light syrup; simmer, and reduce them to cara- mel, take tiiem from the fire, and when cold, cover them with syrup, dip each quarter into batter, and fry them of a nice colour; sprinkle them with powder sugar, glaze, and serve them. Orange Gimbletics.*—Grate the rinds of two very sound oranges on a piece of sugar, which scrape off, and mix with some more, so as to make six ounces ; pound four ounces of blanched almonds. Put half a pound of sifted flour on a slab, niiike a hole in the middle, into which put four drachms of yeast (diluted with a small quantity of milk), two ounces of butler, the yolks of two eggs, a grain of salt, the almonds and the sugar; mix those altogether, and leave ihe paste in a ivarm place for five or six hours, that it