( 321 ) LOB LOB cliop Bome tarragon and chervil, two boiled eggs, the yolks and whites chopped separately ; if you have any cauliflowers or French beans, boil and puc them with the other things to garnish : having every thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and place the lobster and other things ac- cording to your taste, and just before j'ou serve, garnish it with Italian salad sauce. LoBSTEns loMarinate.—Halfboil them, takeout the meat and lard the tails with a salted eel : then cut the tails longways, i and fry them in oil; make a sauce with \ while vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, I sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter sa- ! vory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rose- mary and thyme, and some bay leaves ; dish the lobsters, and pour die sauce over them ; lay upon them three lemons cut in slices, and. run it all over with butter. Lobster Patties.—Sheet your patty- pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each ; then cover them with more paste, trim round the pan, wash the tops of the paste with egg, and bake them of a light colour. When they are to be served, take out the bread and fill them with lobster chopped I add to them a little strong C'Msomme of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, a shalot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. Lobster, Petits Pates of.*—Take some light puff-paste, roll it out thin, and cut It into pieces with a circular paste-cut- ter ; lay them as smoothly as possible in small copper drum-shaped moulds ; take the tails of two lobsters, cut the meat into small pieces, which put into some hechamelj when well heated fill the petits 2>dtes, cover, dorez, and bake them. As soon as they are done, take tliem out of the moulds, and serve them. Lobsters to Pickle.—Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white-wine and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lob- sters again, boil them all together ; when completely done, take them out and put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them; pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. "Lob-steu /be.—Boil two or three lob- sters, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into pieces. Then take out all the spawn, and the meat from the claws; beat it well in a mortar, and season it with pepper, salt, two spoonsful of vine- gar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt half a pound of fresh butter with some bread crumbs grated very fine, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a good puff paste over the dish, lay in the tails, and then add the rest of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a slow oven. Lobsters Polled.—Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and re- move the gut; if the inside is not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves, in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of the pan, and the lob- sters smooth over it, with bay-leaves be- tween ; cover it with butter, and bake it gently. Wlien done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it* When cold, pour clarified butter over it,' but not hot ; it will be good the day after it is done, and if very highly-seasoned and thick-covered witli butlei', will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce. Lobster d la Remoulade. * — Break the shell, open the back, take out all the inside, and put it into a china ba- sin, mix a dessert spoonful of mustard, parsley and shalots, shred small, salt, pepper, and the coral; stir these toge- ther well, with some oil and vinegar; put your lobster on a dish, and the above mixture or remoulade in a sauce-boat. Lobster Tfoasfed.—More than half boll it, take it out of the water; while hot, rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed ; serve with melted butter. Lobster Sauce. — Put the coral or spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of butter, and well pound it; then rub it through a line liair sieve; put some butter sauce into a stewpan, and the coral of the lobster : set it on the fire till it is very liot, and looks perfectly smooth and red, if not smooth pass it througli a tammy ; then put in the meat of the lob- ster, cut into small dice; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it to table. Lobster Sauce. — Pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy; strain it into some melted butter ; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two ancho- vies pounded. Lobster fn « Savory Jelly.— Make a good aspic jelly, being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, lialf fill it with the jelly, and when it is set, lay some ancho- vies. shredded fine, in what form you