V E N ( 495 ) V E II Vexcson Pie or Pasty. — All kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties must lie hiijlily spiced wlien served hot. and still more highly spiced when served cold: bat the seasoning must be regu- lated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison, (according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty), hone it thoroughly, beat it very flat, and lard it through and througliwilh large larduns, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie it up with strong twine. Tut into a stew- pan the bones and trimmings of the veni- son, with carrots, onions, paisley, one clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper- corns, and allspice, and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with equal quanti- ties of beef or mutton braise, and water, whicli let boil very gently till done, then put in the roll of venison ; put paper on the top, cover very close, and let it stew gently with fire over and under. Wlien sufficiently done, take it oft' the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until nearly cold ; then prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to one pound of butter, the same as for raised pie, but instead of making it still', mix it as soft as possible ; lay part ol this paste as thick as you well can round the edge of the dish ; cut oil the twine from the venison, skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over witii egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor it was stewed in, and when the pie is bak- ed, pour it in ; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely be made too thick. Ve.ni'On Potted.—Put the venison into a pan, and pour red wine over it, and cover it with about a pound of butter; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked; when done, take the meat out of the gravy, beat it fine with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary; season with fiepper, salt, and mace pounded; put it into pots, set tliem in the oven for a few minutes; lake them out, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Veniso.n llousted. — To dress the haunch, chop oil'the shank, take off the skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and water, roll it out to the shape of the veni- son ; lay it on thick upon the venison, paper over that, and secure it well with pack-thread. Let it roast at a good dis- tance from the fire, and baste it fre- quently. About a quarter of an hour before serving take oil' the paste, dredge it with flour, baste it with a bit of butter and .sprinkle a little saltover it; and when of a fine brown colour, take it up, seive it on a di.sh. with a good gravy under it, and garnish the bone with cut paper. Serve with hot port wine,or currant jelly, in a boat- A neck of venison should be covered with paste, and roa.sted in the same manner as the haunch, only that it does not require being so much done. Venison A’a^ce.— Serve with venison, currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine waimed by itself. Venison Seviey.— Make some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated' very fine, a pint of white wine, two pounds of sugar, and the rind of an orange shred small, add a little nutmeg, and salt; mix it well with the hand; roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white wine, boiled up wilh sugar, and spice ; strew powder-sugar over it. Venison {to Stetv).—Cut the venison into slices, and put them into a stewpan, with a little claret, rosemary, six cloves, vinegar, sugar, and grated bread; set these on a moderate fire to stew. When done, add grated nutmeg, and serve. Venison Sfmeif.—Tut into a stewpan a pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, a large spoonful of currant jelly ; cut the venison into slices, and flour it, and put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; take up the venison ; thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. Venison {Shoulder of) Stewed.—Take out the bone and beat it: have retidy some slices of mutton fat, that have been soaked a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison ; sprinkle a litile pepper, and allspice, in fine powder, over it, roll it up tight, and tie it. Tut it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy, not too strong, half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice. Let it simmer very closely covered, and as slowly as possible for four hours. When quite tender, take oft'the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with cur- rant-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be dressed in this manner if very fat. VEllDE. — Infuse the rind of three lemons .and four oranges in two quarts of rum or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, closely stopped ; then squeeze the juice through a strainer; if the fruit is good, tliere ivill be half a pint, and if there is not so much, make it that; add to it a pound and a quarter of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved ; 2 U 3