( 164) c no c no Chocolate Bouchies de Damex.*— Make your bouchies de dumes as direct- ed, (see that article), but lay them rather more of an oval form ; when bak- ed, take them from the papers. Then put two ounces of very fine sugar, (sifted), and three ounces of grated chocolate, into a pan, with one and a half whites of eggs ; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes; and having filled the bouchies with marmalade, mask them with this mixture j as you do them, strew crystallized sugar over, and place them carefully on a baking-plate covered with paper. When all are done, put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. Chocolate Cannellons. * — Prepare twenty pannequets; mask them lightly with chocolate-cream palissiere', strew over them some crushed macaroons; roll them out: cut them through the middle; dip them in batter, and fry them ; glaze, and serve them quite hot. Chocolate Comfits *——Take two ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a little warm water over the fire ; when it is dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it upon a pound of massepam or sweet paste, to which add some cinnamon or vanilla at discretion ; rnix the whole well together ; then spread it over some wa- fer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep coloured enough, you may colour it with bolus Armenicum. Chocolate Conserve.*—Dissolve tvvo ounces of good chocolate in a little wa- ter, put it into a skillet with half a pound of sugar boiled to perli ; keep the sugar stirring, and when it boils put the con- serve into moulds. Chocolate Conserve.* — Dissolve a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; boil a pound of sugar to the premiere plume, put your chocolate into it, stir- ring it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. Chocolate Cream.*—Take a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, mix these ingredients together, set them on the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till reduced to a (luarter; then add two ounces of grated chocolate; and hav- ing boiled a little longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve it cold. Chocolate Cream. Scrape two squares of chocolate, and put them in a stewpan, with half a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of milk, and halfapint of cream; let it boil till a thinl is con- sumed, and when half cold, beat up the yolks of six eggs with it, and strain the whole through a sieve, and then put the small cups or dish in which the cream is to be served into a pan containing enough boiling water to reach above half-way up the cream; cover tliis pan, and put a little fire on the lid ; when done, and the cream cool, serve. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; w'hen quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs, whisk and take up the froth on sieves as others are done; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Chocolate Cream.—Take about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, and stir it over a gentle tire till it looks smooth and thick; then add a little more milk, and stir it again over the fire ; continue this till it takes the thick- ness of cream; sweeten it to your palate with clarified sugar ; stir in a little thick cream with a very little isinglass, rub it through the tammy, and set it in the mould. Chocolate Cream.—Take a quart of cream, a pint of white wine, and a little juice of lemon; sweeten it well, lay in a sprig of rosemary, grate some choco- late, and mix all together; stir it over the fire till it is thick, and pour it into your cups. Chocolate Creamau Bain Marie*— Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into small pieces, and dissolve it in a glass of water with a small quantity of vanilla, and half a pound of sugar. When these ingredients are perfectly dissolved, add five glasses of boiling milk; pour this mixture, a little at a time, on the yolks of ten, and one whole egg ; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, add a grain of salt, strain and finish as directed. Cream au Bain Marie. Chocolate Cream d la Franqaise.'— Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water over a gentle fire ; tlien pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs; add half a pound of sugar, and four glasses of boil- ing milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens; then boil it up once and strain it; when nearly cold, add six drachms of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. See Cream d la Francaise. Chocolate fS'hippcd Cmm.*—Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in half a glass ol boiling water over a moderate fire: then let if. coi’l; add to it a quarter of a pound o! powdf