B R O (83 B R 0 hand, flatten the top, and gild them with the yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the sinallones; large cakes will require an hour and a half. Brioche Priiters.*—Cut some small brioche cakes in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweet- meat, or made cream; put the two halves of each together, so that they may ap- pear whole ; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt and white wine, fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar, pass a salamander over. Brioche Fr/fto-s.*—Cut your brioche paste into slices of whatever thickness you may think proper, soak them in milk, sugar, and orange-flower water; then let them drain ; dip in batter, or flour alone, and fry them. Brioche au Fromage.—^When you make the brioche, cut some Swiss cheese into dice, and throw them into the paste while it is liquid, and bake as before. Brocoli.— Strip oft' all the little branches till you come to the top one, then with a knife peel away the hard outside skin from the stalks, and throw them into water. Have ready a stcwpan of water, throw in a little salt, and when it boils put in the brocoli. When the stalks are tender it is done. Put a piece of toasted bread in a dish, lay the brocoli on it. Serve with melted butter. Another way.—Prepare them as above, and stew till tender, with pepperand salt. Brocoli and Eggs.—Boil brocoli as usual, reserve a large bunch for the mid- dle. Toast 3 piece of bread and lay it on a dish; beat up as many eggs as you think proper, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter and a little salt. Keep beating them with a spoon tiil thick enough, and then pour them on the toast. Set the large bunch of brocoli in the mid- dle, and the other pieces round it. Gar- nish the dish with sprigs of brocoli. Brocoli may be dressed exactly the fame as raulifloivers. BROILING.*—The amateur of a broil, who would secure a chop or steak, cooked to perfection, is recommended to bend his way to the neighbourhood ol l,ondun’s Royal Exchange, where the art and mystery of that summary pro- cess of savoury cookery, has longattaincd the ultimatum of excellence. '1 here the fire burns with never ceasing brightness, the gridiron has not time to cool, and the impatient coinmercialist, to whom time is property, is never doomed to wait. Certain it .is, that a chop or steak is not often eaten in perfection, at the table ol a private family, though, there is tio sufficient reason why it should be so j for, as in boiling, so in broiling, the difficul- ties of the art vanish, where attention is not wanting. The process is more sim- ple than that of any other method of dressing meat, the operation is quick, and the object under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron, to that of its comple- tion. Tlie cook must prepare her fire for the operation in due time; when ready, it should be clear and bright—so free from black coal or smoke, that the chop or steak may come from the gridion with- out blemish or taintofsulphurorsmoke. I'he best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted from either, even on commenc- ing the fire ; and w’hen well ignited, it is entirely free from it. Coke, added to a brisk coal fire, also burns bright, and ia well suited for the operation; though with care, a proper fire may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declaimers upon a broil, hold various opinions, touching the proper thickness of a steak; though at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired other- wise, confine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three-quarters of an inch. This adjust- ment of the proportion of the stratum of the delicious rump, is moreover accord- ing to the statute Jaw ol the thriceiearn- ed conclave, the Beef Steak Club; amongst whose members, from the epoch ol its original founder, George Lambert, and his distinguished convives, to the present day, may be numbered the most accomplished gourmands oi this renown- ed land of good cheer. *** The choicest steak, moreover, be it hereby known, on the authority of one of the best informed butchers in this great metropolis, who served the Beef Steak Club', the last season, is cut from the rump of a prime Norfolk-fed Scot I There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak, the outside is likely to be scorched to h u-ny hardness, before the interior is half cook- ed ; hence, to say nothing of the misery ol those who have not the advantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epi- cure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it row. No gridiron should be used, but those with llitted bars, which forming channels, the greater part of the fat, which other- wise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn oft' into a gutter at the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bais rtibbed with beef or mutton suet, previously to