D I A 216 D I S little enlt, and ca glass of water: work the whole together, so as to make a firm paste, and then roll it to the thick- ness of half a finger: cut it into bits about the size of a small patty-pan, and with your hands form them into moulds, having an edge raised about an inch deep; put them intoauovenofamoderate heat, and in about seven minutes after- wards, put into each half a pint oj cream, niixed with two spoonsful of flour, very little salt, and one ounce of sugar; when done, strew sugar over them. DEER {to Dress the Umbles of).— Take the kidneys of a deer, with the fat of the heart; season them with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; first fry them, and afterwards stew them in some good gravy, till they are tender; squeeze in a little lemon ; take the skirts, and stuft" them with a forcemeat, made with the fat of the venison, some fat of bacon, and grated bread, pepper, mace, sage, and onion, chopped very small: mix it with the yolk of an egg; when the skirts are stufl'ed with this forcemeat, tie them to the spit to roast, but first lard them with thyme and lemon-peel; when they' are done, lay the skirts in the middle of the dish, the fricassee round it. DENTS de Loup.*—Fold two sheets of paper lengthways, like a fan, then double, and butter the paper, and spread it open. Break two eggs into a pan, and mix with them four spoonsful of powder- sugar, two of flour, and the grated rind of two lemons, when well mixed, add a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Take a spoonful of this preparation, and pour it on the edge of your paper, guid- ing it along the folds with your finger; then take another spoonful, and do the same, leaving a space between each fold, that they may not toucri in baking; sprinkle them with sugared aniseed, and bake them in a well-heated oven ; shake them from the paper carefully, so ns not to break them, as soon as they come from the oven. DEVONSHIRE miite Pof. —Beat up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of sugar-; then slice very thin, almost the whole of the crumb of a penny loaf; put it into a dish; pour the eggs and cream to it: a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter; bake it. DIABLOTINS.—Found some choco- late, with a little olive oil, into a still' paste, of which, take small pieces, and roll them in your hands, into the shape of nuts, olives, &c. either round or flat; strew over them nonpareils of dillercnt colours, and dry them in cases like other sweetmeats. Diablotinb.* — Take a cold vanilla cream renversee (see that recipe), and when quite cold, cut it into dice ; throw these into flour: cover them well, and fry them a little in a hot pan ; when tolerably black, drain; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them. Diablotinb eti Caniiellons.*—Take six ounces of filberts, blanch and pound them, adding, by degrees, three glasses of boiling cream ; then press them through a napkin, to extract as much milk from them as you possibly can, which pour (a little at a time), on two spoonsful of rice- flour ; mix them well; take care there are no lumps; and having added three ounces of powder-sugar, and a grain of salt, set the whole over a moderate fire for thirty or forty minutes, stirring it constantly, when it will have become a firm smooth paste. Pour it on a slightly buttered slab; spread it out with a knife, making it about three quarters of an inch thick. When it is quite cold, cut it into pieces about three inches long, and three quarters of an inch wide; sprinkle them with flour; roll them round lightly; dip one at a time into batter, (the same as what you use for Fritters d la Parisitnne), and fry' them in a hot p'-.n; when they are of a nice colour, drain them on a napkin ; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them either in the oven or with a salamander. DISTILLING.* — Distillation is the process of extracting the spirituous and aromatic particles, from various sub- stances and liquids in which they are enveloped, and likewise separating them from earthy and saline particles, with which they are mixed. This process is performed by means of heat; and the vapour-lath, water-lath, and sand-lath, are the three methods usually prac- tised. The ATipoiir-bath produces the most moderate degree of iieat necessary for distilling. A metal; or earthen vessel, filled to about two-thb-ds with water, is set on a furnace, over this i.s pl.aced tlie alemlic. containing the substance to !« distilled ; as soon as the water bolls, the vapour rises, and striking the bottom of the alembic communicates its heat there- to, which forces the volatile or lighter parts of its conteiiis to rise, and separate themselves from the grosser ones. The water-bnth is more commonly marie use of than the above, being less dillicult to manage ; and in ni-tdling plants or flowers, «hich are lianie to burn, or are heavy, and requtre liqum, it is far better than the other. The water-bath dillers from the va- pour-bath in this respect, that the alcm-