MAH ( 329 ) MAR sieve, and place it on ice; the moment it begins to congeal, pour in, by degrees, half a glass of maraschino; then stir in the whipped cream, and finish as usual. Maraschino Ice CremwTake two Suarts of cream, twelve eggs, a pound of ouble-refined sugar, and three glasses of true maraschino; put the cream on to boil, and in the mean time whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm snow, then pour in eight yolks, and the sugar pound- ed and sifted, stir them together lightly, and then and by degrees the boiling cream, whipping continnallv; set it on the fire, and do not cease whipping until it has boiled up three or four times ; pour it through a sieve, into a basin, stirring a little to enable it to run more freely; when cold put it into the sorbetiere with tlie maraschino; cover it instantly, and ice it as usual. Maraschino, Sot/ffles, Franeais of.*— Your preparation being made as usual {see Souffles Frariqais), when the whites of eggs are put in, add half a glass of maraschino. MARCHPANE.*—Take four pounds of sweet almonds, throw them into boil- ing water, let them lay till the skin loosens, then put them into cold water, after a few minutes blanch and throw them again into cold water to wash them thoroughly. When dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a very fine paste, moistening each handful with two spoons- ful of water ; the whole quantity of al- monds being pounded, put the paste into a large preserving pan, with four pounds of the best lump sugar finely pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, stir and work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom: be very careful that none of the pasteadheres to thepan; the consequence of such neglect would be, that the march- pane would be spotted with yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst work- ing it up, the paste, which when pul in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed ; the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, the second by the evaporation of the water. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried ; in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, sprinkle it well with flourj then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle that side also; then take the pan by both ears and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together: as soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months; if these two precautions are not properly attend- ed to, it will become sour in ten days. Marchpane Royal.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound thern, moistening with orange-flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving pan with half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will besufficiently soif, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger, then take it out and place it on a plate Or wafer paper, previously sprinkled with sugar : as soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger ; form them into rings, and lay them on iron gratings, glaze and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows: roll it out and cut it in half, spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please, cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating as above, glaze and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLDS, Conserve o/.—Take four ounces of marigold-flowers, conserve of hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms, the powder of pearl two ounces, and as much syrup of citron as will make them into a conseive, mixing and bruising them together with refined sugar. MARINADE Cuite.*—Cut three car- rots and four onions in slices, put them into a stew-pan with some butter, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves ; set these on the fire ; when the carrots and onions are done, add some parsley and scallions, a dessert spoonful of flour, a glass of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and pepper. Simmer the marinade for three quarters of an hour, then strain it through a horse-hair sieve, and set it by for use. M A RJO RAM Conserve. — Take the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo- ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or bowl; take double its weight of fine sugar, boil it with marjoram-water till it is as thick ns syrup, then put in your beaten marjoram. Marjoram, Essence (/.—Take some marjoram, pick ofl‘ the leaves and lay them to dry in a warm place for about a couple of hours, then take a large 2 F 3