C O F (179 ) C 0 F 6th. Do not roast or make your coflee until the day it is wanted. 7th. To two ounces of ground colie^ put four cups of cold water. Draw ofl this infusion, and put it aside. 8th. Put to the coffee wliich remains in the three cups of boiling water, then drain it oft'and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this method you obtain three cups more. tPhen your coftee is wanted, heat it quickly in <a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by undergoing any eva- poration. Then pour it into cups, which eacli person may sw^eeten according to his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel; it should be made either in a China vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. For a long time, the tin biggins, in- vented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan, bjr making them in silver or porcelain, which are found to be much better. Coffee, to make^ d In Chausse.*—Put some ground coftee into a bag ; heat the marc or the leve which has been made the day before ; and whilst it is boiling, put in the bag; then draw it off'; pour the infusion several times backwards and forwards; then heat it again ready for use. The marc which remains in the bag jnay be boiled up again, and may be made use of the next day. Coffee (to make xoith cold Water),* —Upon two ounces of coft'ee pour seven cups of cold water ; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom ; when the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken oil'the fire and allowed to stand ; but as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the in- stant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it, is, by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to settle, pour oft' the infusion gently into another cofl'ee-pot; it is then ready for use. After the infusion has been drawn off the marc, that is, the grouts or remains, may be boiled up aeain, to make coffee for the next day. This infusion is called marc or the lei e. Coffee (to make with hot Water).*— Instead of pouring cold water upon the coft'ee, boiling water must be poured upon it, taking care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by de- grees. It is then made the same as the preceding receipt. Coffee (to give the Flavoiir of ka- nilla).*—Take a handful of oats, very clean, and let them boil for five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away; then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; then pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coft'ee, which will require, by this means, the flavour of vanilla, and is most excellent. Coffee, Blancmange of.—Roast two ounces of the best coffee ; grind, and pour on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand, covered close; and when the coffee is precipitated, pour off the infu- sion, and mix it with six ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds as directed in Blancmange of Cedrats. Divide the liquid, and fill your mould as therein explained. Coffee Bonboiis.—Take about a pint of coft'ee made with water; put in it a pound of loaf-sugar; set it on the fire, and boil it to a high degree; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring till it comes to caramel height; to know when it is come to that point, you must have a bason of water by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sug.ar, then in the water again, to remove the sugar, which will have stuck to it; take ahit of it in your teeth ; if it is hard in its crackling,take it off, it is sufficient! y done; pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the rolling pin must likewise be rubbed w’ith butter, for fear it should stick); when it is warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. Coffee (Cowserues).*—Clarify and boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it one cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes to the sixth degree, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. Viard and Beauvillier both recommend the coffee to he made very strong. Coffee Cream.—Mix three cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, and sugar according to taste ; boil them to- gether, and reduce them about one-third; observe that the coffee must be done as if it was for drinking alone, .and settled very clear, before you mix it with the cream. Coffee Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, and the same of thick cream together ;