FLO ( 244 ) FLO little broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, one of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices of bacon, pepper and salt; when done, drain them from the liquor, and put the fish in a tureen ; add a little cullis to their broth, skim it, sift it in a sieve, and serve upon the fish; you may add what sorts of ragofit you choose. If it is to he maigre,braze the fish as such, and serve with their sauce, or with pease or lentil cullis. Observe, that tench must be scalded before they are dressed ; but the scales must be left upon pike and perch until they are done, which will give the meat a better colour and a finer white. FLIP. — To make a quart of flip :— Put the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up three or four eggs, with four ounces of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or brandy. When the aleneaily boils put it into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs, &c. into another; turn it from one to another till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS, io Choose, — They should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon be- come flabby and bad. They are both a sea and river fish; they are in season from January to March, and Irom July to September. Flounders Boiled.—Put on astewpan with a sufficient quantity of water to co- ver the flounders which are to be dressed; put in some vinegar and horse-radish ; when the water boils put in the fish, hav- ing been first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; they must not boil too fast for fear they should break ; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. Flounders d la Donne Femme. ter a dish, and lay in it three or four flounders, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a glass of white wine or water, and grated bread over the wliole ; rover your dish, and set it on a stove for ten minutes; take it off and serve. Flounders Broiled.* — Cleanse and wash as many flounders as you may re- quire, dry and rub them over with oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper on them ; lay reeds across your gridiron, and place your fish on these; broil them over a slow fire, and serve them with an Kaii- enne maip-e, capers, or any oilier sauce you may think proper to use. Flounders Broiled.*—&(ee\y your fish in oil mixed with pepper, parsley, and young onions, all carefully taken out before the fish is served; whilst broiling baste with the marinade, that is, the oil and herbs, and serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Flounders Fricasseed. — Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white; cut the fiesh from the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg; strew ll-em over with bread raspings, and fry them in cla- rified butter; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce, take the bones of the fish, boil them iii water ; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace; let these simmer till the anchovy is dissolved; then take the butter . the fish was fried in, put it into a pan over the fire, shake some flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaking in ; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it be- comes thick; squeeze some lemon-juice into it; place the fish in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Flounders F/vetf.—Well rub them in- side and out with salt, then let them lie for two hours, to give them some firm- ness. Dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Flounder Pie. — 'I'hoiouguly cRan some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off' the flesh clone to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and lay a little butter at the bottom ; then put in the fish; season with pepper and s.alt to your palate ; boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a liitle bit of horse-radish, a little parsley, a very small piece of lemon-peel, and a crust of bread ; boil it till there is just liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, and put it into the dish; put on the top, and let it bake. Flounders Stewed.—Takesome floun- ders and fry them of a nice brown ; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fried in, a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce lor the fish that are done; to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion cut in slices, a spoonful of catsup, and two spoonsful of red wine; let itsiminera quarter of an hour; then put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; then take them out, put them into a warm dish, and thicken the sauce, with butter and flour: give it a boil, and strain it off; pour it over the fish. FLOWERS in Sugar. — Clarify sugar to a caramel lieitihr* wiiicli may be knou n by (lipping in a fork, and if it tiiro'vs the sugar as fine as threads, pni in the fiowers. Have ready some ica-cups, with tlie insides rubbed with sweet oil; put