EEL 225 ) EEL then aild half a pint of white wine, sonie broth, pepper, and salt; boil on a brisk fire; reduce the sauce; take out the bundle of sweet herbs, and make a liaison with the yolks of two or three eggs, and cream ; and add the squeeze of a lemon when ready to serve. Eei.s Fried.—Cut one or two eels into pieces, take out the back hone, and score It on both sides. Marinate it for about half an hour in vinegar, with parsley, sliced onions, shalots, and four cloves. Then drain it; baste it with eggs and crumbs of bread, and fry it of a nice brown colour. Garnish with fried par- sley, and serve it with a good relishing sauce. Eels Fried.—If your eels are small, they should be curled round, and dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size, cut them into pieces ; season tJiem with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; flour them ; fry them in butter. Eel, Galantine of.*—Take the skin, with great care, from a large eel; bone, and having laid it open, spread over it with a knife a quenelle farce of pike, on which place some truffles of tongue d. I’ecarlate, and gherkins, all cut in small pieces; lay a little more farce_ on them, and then roll it into its original form, and sew it up ; wrap round it some slices of bacon, and then lay it in a napkin; fasten the two ends, and sew up the napkin, so that the fish may still retain its right form; then put it into a fish- kettle with a cooked marinade, and when it has simmered in them between thirty and forty minutes, let it stand to cool in its liquor: then drain, and cut the eel into eight pieces, seven of an equal length, and the eighth much longer than the pest. Put a layer of Montpellier but- ter into a dish; set the longest piece of eel in the middle, and the others round, and garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, and borders of coloured butter. Eels, to kill, instantly.—Pierce the spinal marrow, close to the back part of the skull, with a sharp pointed skewer. It tliis is done in the right place, all mo- tion will instantly cease. Eel, Larded.*—Lard an eel along the back with small pieces of bacon; roll, and tie it up ; put it into a pan, with a cooked marinade; when it has laid some time in that, cover it with breadcrumbs, and bake it. Eels en Matelote. — Skin and wash some eels; cut them into three or four {lieces; lay them between bards of fat lacon and consomme, enough to cover them; to which, add a little carrot, onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, bay- leaf, and one clove of garlic; let them stew till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish; to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat, blanched, and pour over the whole a good bechamelle sauce, and a liaison, gently mixed in. Eel, Gi-os Pate o/.*—Take three fine large eels, open them, take out the bones, spread them out on the table, season, and lay over them, to the thick- ness of half an inch, a farce made in the same way as that for Gros Pate of stur- geon, with the addition of a pound of truffles, cut in dice, and the same quan- tity of tunny, also cut into dice; draw the skins ever this, so as togivethem^ their original form. Prepare your pate in the usual manner, and lined with the farce; take one of the eels, roll it round, not very close, and lay it in the pafc; fill the centre of the eel with a little of the farce, and some whole truffles; cover the surface with spices and salt; and then, in the same manner, lay on it the second, and on that the third eel. Cover the whole with a pound of good fresh butter and some slices of bacon ; finish the pate as usual, (See Gros Pate of Carp Roes), and bake it four hours : when done, pour in some melted butter and sweet herbs. Eels Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth ; season them with nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay-leaf: roll them in a collar, and tie them tight in a cloth ; boil them in an equal quan- tity of white wine and vinegar: when they are tender, take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool: when they are cold, put them into the same liquor again: if there_ is not liquor enough, boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices : set them upon their ends while they are cooling, ana they will keep their shape much better. Eel Pie_.—Skin and clean the eels ; cut them in pieces about two inches in length; pass them, with chopped parsley and shalots, a little gr.ated nutmeg, pep- per, salt, and lemon juice, for five mi- nutes ; then put a little light forcemeat at the bottom of u deep dish, put the eels over it; cover it with pulT paste; bake It, and put into it either bicliamelle or cullis. Eels Potted.—Rip open the eels, bone and cut them into pieces; wash, and well dry them; season them highly with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; put them into a