( 76 B R E B U E Tlien, instead of working it with the hands, as is done with dougli for English bread, put the ends of your fingers to- gether, and work it over your hands un- til it is quite weak and ropy, and then cover it over with flannel. Put the fire into the oven, and make it very hot, by which time the dough will be ready. Lay the dough on the dresser, and in- stead of a common knife, have one made like a chopping-knife to cut it with. Then make it up into rolls or bricks at pleasure. The bricks (of the common size) will require an hour and a half to bake, the rolls only half an hour. Draw them out, and either rasp them with a rasp, or chip them with a knife. Some persons break in two ounces of butter, when working up with the second liquor. Bread French.*—Take half a bushel (or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, make a hole in,the centre, in which put two ounces of yeast; make your dough with warm water, to about the consistence of brioche ; work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, dissolved in a little warm water; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; on tliis part of the operation depends the quality of the bread. Having left the dough one or two hours, (according to the season), knead it again, and leave it as before, for two hours. In the mean while, heat the oven, divide the dough into eight equal parts, of which form as many loaves, into any shape you please; putthem into the oven as quickly as possible. As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with a little butter, which will give it a fine yellow colour. B READ (French), or Rolls.*—Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts of milk, three quarters of a pound of warm butter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces of salt; when the whole is well worked up, cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours time, form it into rolls, and lay them on tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. When they have been in an hour, put them into a very hot oven for twenty minutes. Rasp them as soon as they are baked. Bread Fritters.*—Boil half a pint of milk till reduced to half, with a little sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange- flower water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; have ready some pieces of crumb of bread, cut about the size of half-crowns, but thicker: put them into the milk to soak a little, then drain, flour, and fry them. Glaze them with sugar, and pass the salamander over them. Bread, Gafeat<a’.*—Grate the crumb ofa fresh loaf, throw itinto boilingcream, keep stirring it over the fire, and let it boil some time longer; then add to it a bit of butter, some sugar and lemon- eel, and currants, if you think proper; utter a stewpan well, pour the bread, &c. into it, and place it on a stove, with fire on the lid also. When the gateaux is of a nice colour, turn it on a dish and serve it. Bread, d laGreeque.*—Putsix pounds of sifted flour into a large pan, set it in the oven for about an hour, that it may be tolerably warm, then mix with it three ounces of yeast, two ounces of salt, and a sufficient quantity of milk and water to make it into dough (not too stiff). Having kneaded it well, cover, and set it on the oven or in a stove; after it has stood three hours, divide it into eight parts, put them into as many but- tered tins, place them immediately into a very hot oven, and when nearly done, take them out of the tins and place them on tin plates for a few minutes to colour the crust. Wrap them in flannel. Bread, London.—To make London bread, put a b\ishel of good flour which has been ground a month or six weeks, in one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm water, and mix it with one quart of good yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands ; let it re- main until it rises as high as it will go, which will take about an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully to its ulti- mate height, and do not suffer it to fall; then make up the dough with eight quarts more of rvarm water and one pound of salt; work it well with your hands, and then cover it over with a sack or other coarse cloth. Put the fire into the oven ; heat it thoroughly, and by the time it is hot, the dough will be ready. Next make the dough into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they will be baked in about two hours ai.<l a half; then open the oven, and draw the breau. In summer the rvater need not be more than blood warm, but in winter it must be a few degrees higher in heat. During a hard frost, however, the water should be as hot as the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil t'lc whole batch of bread. Other quantities of bread are made in the same proportion. Bread, .l/o/fAerw.*—Take six spoons- ful of flour, three of sugar, half an ounce of green anise, and a little salt; make it