C [I E ( 14.J ) C H E Cheiuiy Pudding, Anglo Francats. — Pick two pounds of l’me ripe cherries,and mix them with a quarter of a pound ol picked I'od currants, (having extracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder sugar, hlake your pudding as_ directed in tire recipe for apple-pudding, witli Muscadel raisins. You may make use of raspberries instead of currants; or mix red or white currants and raspber- ric9» Cherby Crush ten pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar with a quart of brandy; cover the jar close, and infuse the cherries for five or six days; at the end of that time put the fruit into a cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil five pounds of fine currants, 1 with three pounds of sugar, and press I out the juice as you did that of the cher- ries; mix the two juices, measure them, 1 and for every pint allow a pint of brandy. ! Add a pound of the kernels of the cher- ; rv-stones, half a pound of coriander, a I little mace, some cloves and cinnamon, , all well pounded, put them into ajar, and |l pour the liquor overthera ; cover it close k and let it infuse for six weeks, after ^ which, pass the whole through a jelly- bag, and bottle it; cork it carefully. Second way.*—Take the stones and i stalks from the quantity of cherries you 1 intend to use, and put a few raspberries 1 with them; bruise and put them into a I jar, and let them stand for four or five i days, stirring the pulp two or three times j each day ; then press out all the juice, ( measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy; and to these i five pints, add three handsful of the ker- ) nets pounded, and a pound and quarter j of sugar. Infuse in the same jar a hand- 1 ful of coriander, and a little cinnamon. I Let it stand lor seven or eight days, stir-. ring it every day, then filter and put it I into bottles ; cork them well, i Cherbies(S//to/) of).*—The best cher- I ries for this purpose are the black sour I ones; take out the stones and express I the juice into an earthen pan, where it i must stand in a cool place for twenty-four ; hours to clear; at the end of that time ! pour the juice gently into a pan, and add I to it, lor each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed sugar, and two draciims of 1 cinnamon, previously infused in a glass of water, wrap the cinnamon in a piece of : linen, and put it with the water into your pan; boil altogether for half an hour, skimming it carefully. When sufficient- ly done take out .he cinnamon ; strain the syrup till quite clear, and when cold bottle it. I CHERRiEs/or Tarts.—Prick some Mo- relia cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them slant! m a dish with powder-sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot, put the fruit into it, and wlien they have remained in it twenty- four hours, take them out and boil the syrup again until very thick, then put in a little brandy, and add the cherries. When cold, pu’t them into glasses. Keep them in a cool place. Cherry Tart.—Make a good crust, and lay it round the sides of a dish, strew in sugar, put in your fruit picked, and sugar at the top, red currants may be added if agreeable, cover with crust and bake. Another.—Make a compote of cherries, either with or without stoning, and half the quantity of sugar used for preserving. When done, lay it in a puff paste ; cover it with the same, or not, according to your fancy, and bake just time enough to colour your paste. 'J'his must be eaten cold. Cherry Tartlets.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and give them a few boils in a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way. (See Tart- lets, and having drained the fruit, put them in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. Cherries en Timbale. — Take,^ the stones very carefully from two pounds of good, red, fleshy cherries, add to them the kernels, and put them with some clarified sugar, into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till pretty thick ; then put them into a basin, and mix them with the juice of two lemons, and a little clarified isinglass; set this on ice, and just before you serve it, put it into a timbale previously prepared. Cherry fVater.—Take one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them; take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add four gills ot syrup; squeeze four lemons in, and add a suffi- cient quantity of water; make it to your taste; pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cherry fV'iter.—Put to two quarts of claret four pounds of ripe black cherries bruised; add to them angelica, balm, and carduces, of each a handful, r.alf the same quantity of mint, double of rose- mary-flowers, and treble of clove gilly- flowers, two ounces of cinnamon, and one ounce_ of nutmeg, both cut small; put these ingredients into a deep vessel, stir them well, and cover the vessel quite close ; and when it has stood twenty four hours, distil it; then draw off' as