( 137 ) CHE CUE milk and potatoe flour; add a little salt. When the pap is boiled enough, put to it four yolks of eggs, half a pound of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese; and lastly, four whites of eggs, whipped till en ncige. Stir the whole well together. Next, pour the pap into a mould, place it over a stove covered with a lid, and fire on the top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be quickly served and eaten. Cheese, Fresh.—Take two quarts of raw cream, sweeten it with sugar ; boil it, then put in some damask-rose* nater, keep it stirring, that it may not burn ; when it is thickened and turned, take it off the fire : wash the strainer and cheese- vat with rose-water; then roll your curd backwards and forwards in the strainer to drain the whey from it, then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat; as soon as it is cold, slip it into the cheese-dish with some of the whey, and serve it up. Cheese Fritters.*—VaX. some milk, butter, mild Brie or Gruyere cheese into a saucepan; add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar; make it into a paste, of which form your fritters; fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange-flowers may be added. Cheese {Parmesan) Fondits.*—Put a pound of butter, and half a pound of potatoe flour; stir them together well ; add to them five or six glasses of good cream nearly boiling, a pound of Par- mesan cheese grated, half a pound of Gruyere cheese grated, a small spoonful o( mignonette, a.nd a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it aver a moderate fire, stir- ring it constantly; add the fifteen yolks, and a large plateful of whipped cream, well drained, then the whites whipped firm; pour this preparation into small paper cases as quickly as possible, and bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. Cheese OT Iced Butter.—Boil lor a few minutes a pint of cream, with some rasped lemon-peel, and a good spoonful of orange flower-water; when taken off the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boil- ing ; silt through a sieve, and put into an icing pot to freeze, working it the same as ices ; it must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to appear like crystals. Cheese Inedd la Chantilly.—It is pre- pared the same as Cream Cheese Iced, and put to ice in moulds ; beat up a pint of cream to a froth, add rasped lemon- peel. a pound of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible ; you may, if you clioose, ice the froth a little. Cheese, {Parmesan) Ice Cream.—Take six eggs, half a pint of syrup, and a pint ofcreaiB; put them into a slewpan, and boil them until they begin to thicken; then rasp tliree ounces of Parmesan cheese, mix the whole well together,and pass it through a sieve; tlieii freeze it according to custom. Cheese, Iced, of my sortof Marmaaide. —They are made in the same manner as Cream Cheese Iced; when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quantity of what marmalade you please, to give it a proper taste of the fruit de- sired. Cheese, Marigold.—Pick the freshest and best coloured leaves you can, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set, and the curd produced, break it as gently and as equally as you possibly can, put it into the cheese vat; and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes in the bottom part of the vat. as will let the whey easily out, or else let there be a spout to carry off the whey, though holes will be the best. They must be finished the same as all other cheeses. Cheese, Cream,dla Montmorency.*— Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of sugar ; when it boils, take it oft'the fire, and let it cool ; when cool, put in half a tea spoonful of orange-flower water. VVhip the cream, and as tlie cream thickens take it oft'with a skimmer, and put it on a basket (with a fine cloth laid over it); continue to whip until there is no longer any cream remaining ; let it drain, and serve it on a plate. Cheese en Neige.—Putinto an earthen pan three half pints of very thick cream, about the size of a large pea of gum adraganth (in powder), and a little grated young lemon-peel; whip the cream well, and as the froth thickens, take it off with a skimmer, and put it in a small osier cheese-basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in tlie bottom of it a bit of muslin, or fine linen. When the cream is all whipped and skimmed, let the cheese drain; turn it over into a deep dish for table; sugar it, and serve. Cheese Paste.—Make a paste, witli a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, three or four eggs, (both yolks and whites) and some good cream ; you must