11 A N C A N C to the air. The yellower they are when in the water, the greener tliey will be alterwards. Put them into a sugar crust, lay the liil close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a moderate oven. Almond {green) Tarts may also be made like any other fruit tart, but the almonds must be very young and cut in half. Almond (green) P/cWe.—Boil vinegar according to the quantity of pickle you want, scum it and put in salt, mace,gin- ger, Jamaica and white pepper, put it into a jar, and let it stand till cold ; then add the almonds cut in half, letting the liquor cover them. AMBER Pudding.—Put a pound of butter intoasaucepan,withthree-qu<'irters of a pound of powder-sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much can- died orange beaten to a_paste as will give colour and flavour to it. Line the dish with paste for turning out. and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven- It may be eaten hot or cold. AMIENS Pie.—Make a paste with about half a pound of flour, apound of but- ter,ealt, and warm water, and let it stand two hours before you use it. Truss a couple of ducks as for boiling; singe them well on a charcoal fire, and lard them with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, laurel powder, thyme, basil, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and coriander ; make a pretty thick raised pie, and cover the ducks in it with slices of bacon and plenty of good butter; finish the pie, and bake it about three hours in a middling oven, then let it cool some time: mix three or four spoonsful of rirhjelly btoth,with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, and one spoon- ful of good brandy; boil these up toge- ther, and when the pie is about fialf cold, pour in the sauce, shake it well to dis- perse the gravy properly. Tlie ducks should be stewed a la braise before they are put into the pie. ANCHOVI ES.*—Wash half a dozen an- chovies, and take the meat from the bones; cut them into four fillets, place them on a dish with some sweet herbs, cut small; and the yolks and whites of hard eggs, also cut small. Anchovy Puller.*—Wash your ancho- vies carefully, take out the bones, and dry ' them ; then pound them in a mortar un- d til they are reduced to a paste ; and mix 11 this paste with double the quantity of fl fresh butter. Anchovies (Essence of).—Apound of the best anchovies, two quarts of water, jl two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a ■fi little scraped horse-radish, a little thyme. two blades of mace, six shallots chopped small, a gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, a gill of catsup ; boil them together for twenty minutes, then rub them through a tammy with a Wooden spoon. When cold, put it into pint bot- tles, cork them close, and keep in a dry place. Anchovies (Farce fine of).*—Clean, take out the salt and bones from as many large anchovies as will aflbrd you ten ounces of fillets, which simmer in four ounces of butter, with two spoonsful of sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and five drachms of.-picedsalt. When cold, pound the anchovies for ten minutes with six ounces of milk panada ; after that, add to them the butter and herbs, pound them together for five minutes longer; then put in four ounces of cr.ay-fish butter and the yolks of three eggs : pound them with the I eat of the ingredients well, and then put it aside (or use. Anchovies (FWerf).—Make a paste of flour, a spoonful of oil, and a little white wine; take care that the paste is not too wet: having taken the salt from the an- chovies, dip them in the paste, and fry them of a good colour. Anchovies in Moulds.—Rub the inside of your moulds with butter, cut the an- chovies in narrow slips and soak them ; lay them in the moulds with well sea- soned farce, aad the breast of a roast fowl cut in slips, and bake them ; turn them into a dish with a little cullis sauce under them. Anchovy Omelet.*—Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and hay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour ; cut them in slips, and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil. Beat up a dozen eggs and season them well, put some olive oil in a frying-pan. and when it begins to boil, put in half the egg.s to form the omelet; when done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form a second omelet with the rest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve, with any sauce you please. Anchovies tcilh Parmesan. — Soak your anchovies well, and split each into four parts: cut some bread to tlie same shape and size, and fry it: put a little cullis iw the dish with chopped parsley, shallots, and grated parmesan ; place the bread in this, and lay the anchovies on it. Pour over it a liiile cullis, and add a little lemon-juice, cover it with bread- crumbs and parmesan, and bake of a good colour. Anchovies (Petits plitfs o/).*—Poll out two-thirds of three-quarters of a pound of pull pasteinto two thin layers, and cut them with a round paste-cutler, about two