EGG Eei,s Slewed. — Cut your cels into pieces, pepper and salt tliem, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, a glass of Ma- deiia, stew these gently; when the eels are done enough, which will be in half an liour, or perhaps rather longer, take them out. and the onion, and the lemon-peel; mix some flour with a little cream, boil this ia the sauce ; add more wine if there is not sufficient, and cayenne ; squeeze in some lemon-juice, piit in the eels. Eeis Slewed d I’Espaffnole.—Stew the eels the same as en matelote, and dish them the same, but pour over them a good sauce d I’Espagnole; it will be bet- ter for having either truffles or mush- rooms in it. Eel d la Tarlare.*—Skin and cut the eels into pieces, five or six inches long; make a sauce as directed for eel ate four ; but before adding the white wine and seasoning, put some flour; when this is strained on the eel, do them up together a short time; let them cool, and then roll each piece in bread-crumbs, dip them in e«gs well beaten and seasoned ; bread them a second time, and a quarter of an hour before serving, broil them over a slow fire. Pour a sauce d la Tarlare into a dish, and place the eels on it. Eels d la Tartare.*—Toss up some carrots and onions shred, and some sweet herbs bruised in a little butter; add a pinch of flour, white wine, nutmeg, pep- per, and salt; let it boil for half an hour, then put it into an eel, skinned and cut in pieces; when this is sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and let them awl; when quite cold, roll each'piece in bread-crumbs, and dip them in beaten egg; bread them a second time, and broil them over a gentle fire. Eggs.—There are so many different ways of dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost fill a volume; we have, therefore, given such as we esteem the best, and, the most adapted to the Eng- lish taste. Eggs d I’Allemande.*—Roll a little butler in flour, and put it into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, powdered ginger, and pjirsley; atld equal quantities of consomme and Rhenish wine ; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, then pour it over some peached eggs, and set it over hot asiies for a short time. Eggs vdlh anchovies.— Take two or tliree French rolls, cut them into slices, (not too thin), and toastand butter them; over them cross shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them, lay a poached egg on each toast. Eugs and Anchovies in savoury Jelly.— EGG Take ten good anchovies, clean them, and cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate; poach five eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them pot them in cold water; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savoury jelly, and as soon as it is set, take the anchovies and neatly cross them on the jelly, trim your eggs very nicely, and with care lay them on the anchovies, then gently pour in a little jelly nearly cold ; when the eggs and an- chovies are well set, fill up the mould, and keep it in ice till it is wanted, then turn it out like any other jelly. Egg/oj' Balls.—Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, and add a little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix all well together, and roll into balls. They must be boiled before added to any made dish or soup. Eggs Beaten.* — Take fifteen eggs leaving the whites of five, strain them into a saucepan, and add to them a quar- ter of a pound of butter, (which should be cut in small pieces) a spoonful ofvetoute, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set these on the fire, and stir them with a stick till they are done, then place them on your dish, and lay fried bread round them. To this dish may be added the heads of asparagus, young pease, cucumbers,&c. these must be placed round the eggs. Ham, cut into dice, is also dressed with them in this manner. Eggs (Beaten) in the Shell.—Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs ; take offthe crusts, and shape them round; make a hole in the middle of each, big enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it. Then take your eggs, break one end carefully, and take out the contents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred parsley and scallions, salt and pepper. Keep it stirring over the fire until properly dene; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with the cooked eggs; lay them on the bread, and serve. _ Eggs dressed with Beet. — Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinna- mon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of lemon ; then take half a dozen eggs, leave out the whites, a little salt and milk^ mix the wliole well together, and strain them through a sieve ; put it into adish, set it overthe fire, and brown tvith a red hot shovel. Egg to boil for a Salad.—Boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and then put them into a basin of cold water for a few minutes, the yolks must he quite hard and cold, otherwise they will notproperly incorporate with the other ingredients.