B 0 I B 0 I { 71 ) ready, let It cool in its own litiuor ; when cold, put it on a dish, and serve it cold, either wliole, or in slices. Boau, fVild, roasted.—it with lardons of bacon, without cutting oil either head or feet; roast, and eat it with vinegar and pepper, or orange, salt and pepper. , 130CKINGS.—Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it stand before the fire about an hour, to rise; tlien mix four eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same way. BOILING.—The operation ofhoiling meat, has been too commonly treated as a department of the culinary art—that required no art at all. Hence, we may possibly trace in the slovenly manage- ment of the pot, the well-known adage, that a leff of mutton boiled, is a leg of mutton spoiled; whilst with due defer- ence to good old sayings, which generally have originated in truth and experience, we are to be numbered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled, one of the. most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisti- cated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, sufficiently kept, and skilfully cooked—for simple as it may appear, there is no small skill required in the management of the arcana of the pot. Hard water is improper for boiling meat and where soft water is not to be pro- cured, the cook cannot be expected to do justice to her reputation, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a pease pudding is an abomi- nation, if nut boiled in soft water. It is now an established point among the best authorities, that the meat should be immersed in the pot upon the fire, whilst the water is cold, that it may be- come progressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled; for by not immersing it in the water un- til hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to heat not only rendered the meat dark in complexion, but tough. Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skewering or tying, where ne- cessary: for shapeless masses of flesh, of unequal thickness, cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must of necessity be overdone, before the thicker ortion is equally acted upon by the oiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam nr immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled; consequently the lire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the not. Modern experiments, thanlcs to the enlightened few who have applied the science of chemistry to the improvement ofthe culinary art, have proved that water for all the purposes, of this department of cooking, can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot, and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, over-notable housewives of the last age, is now proved to have been, mere “ Hubble-bubble, Toil and trouble to no other end than to save a little time, at an enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the lar- der, into an execrable dish for the table. Hence, many domestic broils, upon un- successful boils, in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly opposed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats above all animal aliments should be slowly boiled. Indeed for these, the pot should be kept in a simmering state,which cannot be managed without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand, may' set the pot into a too violent state of ebulli- tion, whilst too low a fire, from inatten- tion, may reduce the heat of the water, so as to injure the meat, for too low, as well as too high a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh hard or tough. It is indispensable also that the water should entirely cover the meat; conse- quently the dimensions ofthe pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boiling too violently ; as, by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is con- stantly lifted up, and with the escape of the steam thus liberated, the more vola- tile and savoury particles of the meat es- cape also,and the meat is thereby depriv- ed of its flavour, and rendered less nutri- tious. This constant opening and shut- ting of the lid moreover renders the pot liable to the admission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth, beyond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, hams, &c. where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it IS less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than that of a kitchen range. A discreet cook, will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude, proportioned to the means of every household, it being an article of great cxpencc in most parts of the kingdom.