RI C 437 ) RIG 2 P 3 in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by .1 which time it will be of a fine clear yel- ii low. Take off the top of your cawerofe, I clear away all the rice from the inside I that does not adhere to the crust (whicli I oujfht to be very thin), and mix it with j bec/iamelle, espagnole, or whatever other sauce may be proper, put it in again, il and then fill your casserole, with such ragouts as your fancy may dictate; glaze I the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. Water, with butter and salt, is fre- ' fluently thought preferable to the stock, I See., as the rice is thereby rendered much ' whiter. Rice Cheese.*—Boil an ounce of rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it 1 hot on an ounce and half of butter, the I same weight of Lisbon sug.ar, mixing it I well together; let it stand till cold ; then ;i add one egg, and the yolk of another, ;i and a little white wine. Rice Cream.*—Mix some rice flour ] with half a glass of cold milk; then by t degrees, add a pint more, aiso cold, and put it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, 'I set it on a slow fire for an hour and a hall , i] then strain and flavour it with orange- ! flower water, sweeten to your taste, and II serve it hot. It should be stirred fre- 1 quently iVhilst boiling; eggs may be I added if you think proper. Rice, Croquettes o/.*—Wash and scald \ a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped Orange-flowers, an ounce of butter, and ' half a pint of milk ; set these on the fire, I and when the rice is quite soft, add the 1 yolks of four eggs, stir them in over the 1 fire, but do not let them boil; pour the 1 preparation on a large tin or slab, spread I It equally ; let it cool, and then divide it I into small equal parts; roll these into I balls, dip them into an omelet, roll them j in bread-crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are j of a nice colour, drain, sprinkle them i with powder sugar, and serve them, j Rice Custards ivithout Cream.*—One I tea-spoonful of rice-fiour, a pint of new i milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table- j spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel 1 leaves boiled in), sugar to yourtastc; mix ' the rice very smooth, and stir it with the ' eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. Arrow-root is better than rice. Rice Flummery.—Boil a pint of new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cin- namon ; then mix just sufficient rice- flour, with a little cold milk as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten according to taste, flavour with a I'ttle pounded bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to let it burn; pour it into a sliape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Fritters.*—Boil the rice in milk with some powder sugar, orange-flower water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a little butter ; when quite soft put to it a liaison of yolks of eggs, pour it into a pan to cool. Make your preparation into balls, about the size of an egg, dip them in egg, fry them, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Rice, Gateau of.* — Boil a quart of cream, add to it half a pound of powder sugar, and three quarters of apound of rice ; when the latter is quite soft, dis- solve in it a quarter of a pound of butter, and then put in the grated rind of a lemon, let it cool. When quite cold, stir in four yolks, and four whole eggs, more if the rice be very thick; butter a mould lightly, put the rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so that it may be completely enveloped in and covered with them; in half an hour the gateau will be done enough; then turn it out, and serve. If you wish, you can make a souSle, by whipping the whites of six eggs ; like other souffles,^ in this case it should be served in a silver dish. Iix putting the preparation into the mould, be careful not to fill it, as the rice would swell ar.d run over the edge. Rice M'./t.*—Allow an ounce of rice for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm water ; act some milk on the fire, and when it boils, put in the rice ; con- tinue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often lor two or three hours; add salt or sugar according to taste, and cinna- mon. Rice Pancakes.*—Boil half a pound of rice in a small quantity of water, until quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. They must be fried in as small a quan- tity of lard as possible. Rice Paste.* — Ilub three ounces of butter well, into half a pound of ground rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Take six ounces of whole rice, and when suffici- ently boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet, shred fine ; when that is melted, take it up, add one egg, and two