W II I (m) W I N them, turn tlieir tails into their moutlis, securing them with a small ske.ver ; do them all over with etrg, and bread- crumbs, and fry them quickly in boijing lard. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. Wliitiiigs are frequently served to gar- nish salmon and cod. Whitings, Fried.* — Take as many whitings as you may require ; cleanse, scale, and wipe them dry; then run them through the eyes with a skewer, soak them well in milk ; flour, .and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on a nap- kin. VVhitings, with Herbs.—Cleanse, and skin them ; cut oft' the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well rubbed with butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs, chopped fine, and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer over hot ashes, put hot ashes also on the top ; turn the fish once or twice ; when done, place them on a dish; pour the sauce and all the sweet herbs over them. Whitings Minced, d Ift Creme.—Take the fillets off the whitings, and toss them in egg, as directed in the receipt for Fillets of fVhitings Fried ; then with your hands carefully separate the small flakes, putting them as you do them into a stewpan ; when alt is done, pour over them a good cream sauce ; when wanted to be served, toss it gently over a mode- rate fire, and put it in a dish ; be careful not to use a spoon, as it will break the flakes, and spoil the looks of the dish. Whitings, with Satcce.—Make a brine with salt and water, sprigs of parsley, shalots, bits of roots, and onions ; let the whole boil t<'gether for half an hour, then strain it, and boil the whitings in it, adding one-third part of milk ; when done, drain them : make a sauce with a bit of butter, a little flour, two wlude green shalots, pepper, and salt; make this tolerably thick with cream ;take out the shalots, and serve the rest over the whitings. Whitings {Fillets ff) Fried-—Take the skin oft' very neatly from the fillets, cut them in two, have leady an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt; toss the fillets in this, and a lew minutes before serving, take them out of the egg, shake them in flour, fry them quick that they may not be greasy, lay them neatly round the dish, and serve a butter satice, made very hot in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a little glaze mixed in it; garnish witli sliced pars- ley. W^HiTiNG {Fillets of) GrilUo, with Sharp Sauce.—Cut the fillets, and toss them in egg, the same as in the receipt fur Fillets of JVhitings Fried; shake them in bread-crumbs, and as you do them, lay them on paper; have ready some clarified butter, clip them in, then brend_ them a second time, lay them on agridiron, over aclearfire of wood ashes, broil them of a nice colour on each side, then arrange them neatly round a dish, and pour into the centre some consomme, made very strong, add the juice of nearly half a lemon, and a little pepper andsalb mixed in it. WIDGEON.—They should betaken up with the gravy in, baste with butter, and sprinkle a little over them before they are taken up; pour a good gravy over them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. WiiiGEONS, Collared.—^one the wid- geons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, sea- son them with pepper, and chopped sage; then dip them in egg, and l.ny them on their sides; add a couple of onions, chopped up; then roll them into collars, boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace; they must be kept in this pickle. Widgeon Hashed.—Half ronst them ; when served to table, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon- juice over; put some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, and let it remain over the lamp till done. WINE.* — The difterent methods of making English wines having already been mentioned under the several arti- cles of which they are composed, little further need be said on the subject. The following is a list of the fruits most com- monly used for making wines in this country;— Gooseberry. Currant—red, white, and black. Cherry. Grape. Damson. Sloe. Strawberiy. Raspberry. Mulberry. Blackberry. Elderberry. Grape, and the foreign fruits. Raisin. Orange. Lemon. Of these, the best, according to general opinion, are of our own fruits, the goose- bcrry,anil currant ;and of the others, the raisin, and orange. Quinces are sometimes made into