(32) ART ART your articliokes on tliis ; pour over the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle over the whole grated bread and parme- san cheese. Bake it of a good colour, and serve very hot. Artichokes d la Lyonnaise.*—Take three large artichokes, and divide each into eight pieces, remove the hard parts, tlie choke, and nearly all the leaves; trim what remains, and throw tliem into cold water as you do them; wash and drain them well, spread half a pound of butter on the bottom of a stewpan. and lay your artichokes on it, sprinltling them with salt and pepper : half an hour before they are wanted, put them over a brisk fire, cover the stewpan, and put fire on that also, taking care they do not burn. tVhen tney are of a nice light colour, serve them, pouring the butter over them. Artichokes, Pickled.—Boil some ar- tichokes till you can pull the leaves off, take out the choke and cut away the stalk ; be cai-eful that the knife does not touch the top. Throw them into salt and water ; when they have lain an hour, take them out and drain them, then put them into jars or glasses, and put a little mace and sliced nutnieg between ; fill them with the best vinegar and spring water. Cover your jars close. Artichoke Pie.—Boil twelve arti- chokes, break off the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks ; line the dish with puff'paste, and lay on it four ounces of fresh butter. Place a row of artichokes, strew over them pepper,salt,and beaten mace, then a layer of artichokes; strew on more spice and a quarter of a pound of butter cut in small pieces. Boil half an ounce of tnrffles and morels, chopped small, in a quarter of a pint of water, and pour it into the pie, with a gill of white wine. Cover your pie and bake. Artichokes preserved the Spanish way.—Take the largest artichokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, wash and well drain them ; to every artichoke pour in a table spoonful of Florence oil, and season them with pepper and salt. Bake them in an oven, and they will keep for ten or twelve months. Artichokes preservedwhole.*—Choose middle-sized articliokes, take off'all the useless leaves and trim them, plunge them into boiling, and then into cold water; when drained, put them into bottles, make them air-tight, surround the bottles with cloths, and place them in a kettle full of cold water, cover the lid also with wet clothes. When it has been boiling about two hours, take the kettle from the fire; in a quaiter of an hour draw off tlie water and uncover the kettle ; do not take out the bottles in less than an hour; the next day tar the bottles. Artichokes, d la Provenfale.*—Take five or six young artichokes, take away the largest leaves, and clear away the sharp edges. Blanch them in boiling water until you can take out the choke ; put into its place the following:—pouuti streaky bacon with some pig, or the white part of poultry or game. Place them at the bottom of a stewpan witli some slices of bacon, parsley, and mo- rels cut small, salt, pepper, and a little salad oil. Let them stew until the under leaves are crisp. Serve with a little veal gravy. Another way.*—Prepare three arti- chokes as for barigoule. Divide a dozen onions into quarters, which cut into thin slices; put them, with half a pound of butter, into a stewpan ; when lightly coloured, mix with them three pounded anchovies; stuff'your artichokes with this and braise them. Serve them with esjMgnole sauce, or a light roua;. Artichoke Salad.*—Trim and blanch your artichokes; drain, cut them in quarters, and put them in a dish ; gar- nish the spaces between each with sweet herbs, and dress it with the yolks of two eggs, spoonful of vinegar, two spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs chopped fine, salt and pepper. Artichokes d la St. Cloud.—Trim and boil them till the chokes come out; then drain and let them cool; have ready as many small pigeons, stewed and well seasoned, as you have artichokes,each of which must be stuff'ed with a pigeon ; dip them in agood batter madeof flour, eggs, a spoonful of oil, and a little salt; fry in a very hot pan w’ith plenty of dripping. Artichokes auxvergies.*—Trim three or four artichokes,season and dress them d la braise, let them drain, and take out the choke; serve them witlj. the following sauce—a bit of butter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper; when it has thickened over the fire, put in a few sour grapes, pre- viously boiled in a little water, and ^ur the whole over them. Artichoke Suckers, the Spanish way. —Clean and wash them, and cut them in halves, boil them in water, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil. a little, water, and a small quantity of vinegar; season them with pepper and salt; stew them a short time, and then thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Or the following;—Clean them and half boil them; then dry them, flour them, dip them iu yolks ol eggs, and fry them.