APR APR (27) put the other layer; cutout and finish your gateaux royaux in the same way as tliose made of almonds, (see that recipe.) Aricots and Filberts, (Gimblettes o/).»—Prepare some puff paste, spread apricot marmalade over it, and cover that with paste, as if for pctits gateaux fourris. hut making it tliirteen inches square ; then with a circular paste-cutter about two inches diameter, cut out the gimblettes; then witli another, ouly one inch across, take out the centre; cut a quarter of a pound of filberts very small, mix them with two ounces of powder sugar and a little white of egg; dorez your rings or gimblettes, and lay them that side downwards on the fil- berts ; then turn them the right way, place them on a baking tin, sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. These may be served either hot or cold. Apricot lee*—Choose about thirty ripe, plump apricots, cut ttiem in half, and take out the stones, and press them through a sieve; and for a pound of this pulp boil a pound of sugar to petit liss^; mix them together and add a dozen of the kernels pounded, and infused in a glass of cold water with the juice of two lemons, and then strained through a tammy. Put the whole into youi’ sabo- tierre till wanted. See Ice. Apricots in Jelly.—Pare and stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay them in a pan, and cover them with cla- rified sugar; next day drain the syrup, and boil it smooth, then add the apricots and boiltogether; the followingday make a jelly with codlings, boiling some apri- cots among them, to give a betterflavour. When the jelly is done put in the other fruit with the syrup, and boil altogether, skim it well and put it in glasses. Apricot Jelly.*—Take eighteen fine apricots, let them be of a nice red colour, stone them, and cut them in pieces into some syrup, (usually made with twelve ounces of sugar, hut for apri- cot jelly it should be rather more liquid than for other jellies). When the fruit is done put it into a napkin, to express out all the juice you possibly can : which you must add to the syrup in which the apricots have been done, and which has been previously strained through a silk sieve, and after having mixed with it a proper quantity of isinglass to thicken It, finish the same as all other iellies. Apricots, {Petits Livrets o/.)*—Are made tlie same as apricot pulls, the only dilierence is, that they are cut of an oblong form with a knile, instead of being semi-circular ; they are usually about two inches and a half long, by two and a quarter wide. « Apricot Marmalade.*—Peel the apri- cots, and take out the stones; to each pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to the de- gree grosboulet, then put in the apricots, boil both together: when it flows readily it may be put into pots. Apricot Marmalade.*—Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those which are of the deepest yel- low and the ripest, (they must not be too ripe.) Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them up; weigh twelve pounds of them and put them into a preserving pan, with nine pounds of powder sugar ; place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, and if they do not spread in the water, your marmalade is ready to put into pots. Another method of ascertaining when your marmalade is done is by taking some on theendof yourfingerand thumb, and just rub them together, and if on separating them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. Apricot Paste.*—Take the stones from as many apricots as you may re- quire, and reduce them to a marmalade over the fire ; then rub them through a sieve, dry and weigh the marmalade, and boil an equal quantity of clarified sugar to petit bouU, then add the fruit, and mix it well in ; put them on the fire and boil them together till sufficiently done ; then pour the paste into moulds, and dry it in a stove. Apricot Pasfe.-*—Peel and stone two pounds of ripe apricots, soak them pretty dry on the fire, and mash them'very fine; add a pound of sugar prepared a la grande plume; stir them well together on the fire till the paste quits the spoon ; finish it in moulds and dry it quick. Apricot Piekle.—Apricots must be gathered just before they are ripe. Cover them with spring water well salted, and an equal quantity of bay and c immoa salt; lay a thin board over to keep the fruit under water. When they have lain three days in water, take them out, wipe carefully, and put them in a jar. Take as much white wine vinegar aswill fill the jar, and to every gallon put a pint of the best well made mustard, two or three heads of garlick, plenty of sliced ginger, and half an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmegs. _ JMix the pickle well together, and pour it over the apricots; tie it up U 2