o H A ( 366 ) ORA terial is used, when put it in tlie stove to dry. Orange Flower Ice.*—Dissolve three pounds of sugar in five pints of water; put a pound of well pickeo orange-flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on thein, close the vessel hermetically, and let it stand five hours, then strain it in the sorbetiire, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). Orange Flower Jelly Printannier au Caramel.* —Having clarified three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it one ounce four drachms of fresh gathered orange-flowers, stir them in with a silver spoon, and when ciuite cold, pour on it two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the caramel sugar is dissolved; as soon as it is so, strain, and mix with it the remainder of the sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass; finish your jelly as directed. (See Jelly Printannier). (Grange Flower Marchpane.*—Take six ounces of orange-flower marmalade, two pounds of sweet almonds, and a pound and a half of sugar; blanch and pound the almonds to a very fine paste ; clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulc, then add the almond paste and marma- lade to it; stir them till of the proper consistence ; and when cold, make your marchpane into cakes, whatever size and shape you please. Orange Flower Marmalade.*—Take a pound of orange-flowers, and two pounds of sugar: take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water; when all are done, squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons; set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch, then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boulc; boil them together a few times, then take it off, and mix with it a pound of apple jelly ; as soon as they are tho- roughly incorporated, the marmalade may be put into pots, which must not, however, be covered till cold. Orange Floiver Pastils.—Pulverise a ■ good pinch of dried orange-flowers ; pound them with gum-dragon, pre- viously dissolved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a sufficient proportion of powder-sugar, to make the paste of the requisite consistence, which form accord- ing to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. Orange Flower Pralinis.*—Take a pound of very fresh white orange-flowers, , pick, and throw them into cold water; i clarify, and Iwil two pounds of sugar to | sovMi) then put in the flowers; stir (j them with a spatula, until your sugar |j regains the degree of souffle ; take the ij pan from the fire, and continue stirring Ij till the sugar is separated from the |j flowers, and becomes a powder; set it | in a stove to dry, tlien set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar may run through l| and leave the flowers, which put into li bottles. If preserved in a dry place they |{ will keep far twelve months. ' Orange Flowers to Preserve.— Take i| the orange-flowers just as they begin to ■) open ; put them into boiling water, and :j let them boil very' quickly till they are tender, putting in a little juice of lemon as >1 they boil, to keep them white, then drain li them, and carefully dry them between I two napkins ; put them into clarified su- 4 gar, (a sufficient quantity to cover them^ i j the next day drain the syrup, and boil it l| a little smooth ; when almost cold, pour :t it on the flowers ; the following day drain | them, and lay them eut to diy, dusting i| them a very little. ; Ora^igb Flowers (Ratajia of ).*—Dis- i solve three poundsof sugar ina sufficient j quantity of water, set it on the fire, add ij a pound of well-picked orange-flowers, ii and give the whole one boil, then let it ;| cool, and pour it into a jar, put to it three ii quarts of the best brandy; cover the li vessel very close, and leave it a fort- I night; after which filter, and bottle the u ratafia. Orange Flowers (Syrup of ).*—Clarify 't and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, ;( then add three quarters of a pound of i fresh orange-flowers picked, and boil i| .them once ; then take the pan from the t fire, and let it stmd for two hours, after :t which, replace it on the fire; wlien it 'I has had about a dozen boilings, pour it I through a sieve into another saucepan. ( boil the syrup to lissi, and put it aside ; j when quite cold, bottle it. The flowers f maybe used as follows; put them into 'j powder-sugar, with which rub them well i with your hands, till quite dry, tlien sift I and put them in a stove. Orange Floicer IFater.*—Put into a I still ten pounds ot fresh gathered orange- h flowers, and six quarts of pure river I water; take particular care to close up ! all the apertures of the still perfectly, , and set it on a moderate fire, that the ! ebullition may not be too strong; be | particular in cooling it frequently, or, at I least, whenever the water in the Itoiler i becomes too warm, change it. and put in ’ fresh; much depends on the attention i paid to this part of the operation. From 'i ,1