OME ( 356 ) OM E table, lay fi angipane on, and roll them up into the form of a mull; trim the ends and place them on a dish, sprinkle them with powder-sugar, glaze, and serve them. Omelet, d la CVewje,—Boil a pint of cream, and put into it the crumb of a Frencli roll, parsley, 8haIots(both shred small), a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till quite thick ; then add half a dozen eggs; fry your omelet, ob- serve that it will require rather more time than usual. Omelets d la Dauphine. — Having made one or two thin omelets (without any seasoning) lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, cherry and apricot marmalade; roll them up. cut them into small pieces, each of which enclose in almond paste; strew powder-sugar over, and glaze them with a salamander. Omelets nf Eggs for ganiis/iing or cutting in Shps.—Break your eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate pans; beat them up with a little salt, and then put them again into separate earthen vessels rubbed with sweet oil. Have ready a pot of boiling water over a ■fire; put them in closely covered, and let the omelets steam till thoroughly done. Ojielet d la Femfere.—Break the number of eggs you think necessary for the size of the omelet, beat them up with chopped parsley, shalots, sorrel, epper, and salt; fry it as usual; when one, put a piece of fried bread on it; roll the omelet round, and serve it. Omelet Frffto's.—Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients; cut them into small pieces and roll them into the form of olives; when cold, dip them into bat- ter, or enclose them in pulf-paste ; fry, and serve them with fried parsley. Omelet d la Gend’arme.—Make a ra- gofit with sorrel, Parmesan cheese grated, and bread-crumbs; fry two omelets in the usual manner, between which put the above rago&t; place them on a dish; cut some pieces of bread, fry them, dip the edge of each in some white of egg to make them stick, set them round the omelet, over which pour a little melted butter, strew bread-criimbs and Parme- san cheese on it, and colour it in the oven or witli^ a salamander. O.MELET Gtaccc.* — Whip up some fresh eggs with a small (luantity of salt, a little candied lemon-peel, and pounded macaroons; beat them together well, and then fry them ns usual, sprinkle the omelet with sugar, and serve. Omelets en Hutcrcaujc.—^lixkc your omelets thin, with sweet herbs, oil in- stead of butter, pepper, and salt, cut them into pieces; between two of wliich place fried bread and anchovies cut in fillets or slips ; serve them hot. Omelet d I’Jtalienne.*—Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive-oil; beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them, thin, but not too dry; cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them together, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets, bread and fry them to a nice colour. Omelet d la Jardiniere.*—a rich ragofit of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs, beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual; when done, pour the remainder of the ragofit over, and serve. Omelet au Naturel.*—Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them up with a whisk ; in the mean time put some fresh butter into a frying-pan, when it is quite melted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, &c. with a skimmer ; as it is frying, take up the edges, that they may be properly done; when cooked, double it; serve very hot. Omelet uu Sung.—This is made pre- cisely the same as the common omelet; the only'difl'erence consists in the addi- tion of poultry or lamb’s blood to the usual ingredients. Ojielet Souffles.*—Break six eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, to the latter, put four dessert spoonsful of powder-sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped exceedinifly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, over a brisk fire ; as soon as it is com- pletely melted, pour in the above, stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly intorporated with the omelet, and when that is the case, strain it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes, strew powder-sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. O.MELET Sovfflcc. ill a il/onW.*—Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks; put to the latter three spoonsful of powder-sugar, four crushed maca- roons, a spoonful of potitoe-flour. a little crisped orange-flower in powder ; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a buttered mould, nut do not fill it; set it in a moderate oven, the same as for biscuits ; when