sou ( 456 ) sou SonnEL Sauce.—Pick and thoroughly wasli two (ioul)lc hamlsfulof young sorrel, well drain it from water, and then put it into a stewpan, welt covered with a bit of butter, and let it stew very gently over a slow tire ; when done, put it to drain on a sieve for three minutes, then, with a wooden spoorr, rub it through a tammy into a dish; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, stirring it over the lire till thoroughly mixed ; you may add, if you choose, three spoonsful of good co7i- smimie, HTiii when it has boiled lor a few minutes, add to it half as much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if necessary season with a little salt; this is proper for a fricandeatt of veal or entrees of lish. SounEi. Soup.—Pick Irorn the stalks, and well wash in several waters, two pecks of young sorrel, then squeeze it well to drain the water from it, and set it to stew on a slow tir e with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, till done. Drain it for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put it again in a stewpan with a small bit of butter, on a slow tire ; when the but- ter is melted, add tralf a pint of co7i- soinnU ; when nearly reduced, add ano- ther, then seven or eight table spoons- ful of plain .‘■auce. When all is well boiled together, rub it through a tammy, adding a quart of consomme while you pass it. Let it bojl very gently ttvo hours before the dinner, and add six eggs, arrd half a pint of crearrt, mixed together, as directed for other soups; put this in the minute before it is served up ; if it should not be strong enough to your palate, boil down some beef-stock, and mix in with it. SoariEL Stewed for Fricandeatt and Jloast Meat.—Thoroughly wash the sor- rel, and then put it into a silver vessel or stone jar, with no mure water than hangs to the leaves. Let it simmer as slowly as possible, and wherr sufliciently done, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUHISE.*—Make a puree of onions, as directed in Sauce Robert; set it on a slow fire, and when dissolved, add four ladiesful of veloute, a quart of cream, and the size of n walnut of sugar; keep it constantly siirring over a brisk fire until thick, then strain it through a bolt- ing, and serve. tSouFFi.E Francais.*—Make a croustade eleven inches in diameter, and three and three-quarters in height; put round it tiiree sheets of buttered paper, and lt» Take twelve glasses of Iroiling milk, in which infuse whatever ingredients you jnay think proper, such ns vanilla, coflee, orange-flowers, &c. (the pioporiions will be found under the different articles). | in the mean time, wash a pound of rice j thoroughly in warm water, then put it | into a saucepan of cold water, and when | it has boiled a few minutes, strain the rice, and put it with your infusion into another saucepan, and set it again on the fire ; as soon as it boils, place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually; in three-quarters of an hour, add a pound of powder-sugar, three- quarters of a pound of fresh butler, and a pinch of salt, stir them well in ; put fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the ) rice maybe kept constantly simmeiing j for an hour, by which time it ought to. be perfectly soft, and should be rubbed through a bolting-cloth quickly, like a purie; put this into another saucepan over hot ashes, to keep it warm. Take sixteen eggs, separate the yolks and whites, beat the former well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm ; then mix liie yolks with the rice (taking off’the ashes); the preparation ought to be of the same consistence as a cream pdlissiere; add, at first, a quarter, and afterwards the | whole of the wliites; stir them in as r lightly as for biscuitpaste ; the whole be- i ing thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into j the croustade, and place it in a moderate f oven for two hours and a half; when | dune, cover a baking tin with red cinders, f on which place the souffle the moment • it is taken out of the oven ; this prevents j its falling, tvhilst you mask it with 1 powder-sugar, and gl.-.ze with the s.ala- i mander; carry it into the dining-room I on tile tin, have a dish ready with a I napkin folded on it; place the souffle on f the dish,and Ictiibeserved immediately, t Remember that a souffle c.annot be served i too quickly. SOUP (Rroivn) without Meat — Put 1 three quarts or more of water, with a j sufficient quantity of raspings to thicken it; two or three onions cut acros.». some whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it j close, atid let it boil an hour and a half; > take it off, and strain it through a sieve ; t fry in butter some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and any other herbs cut small; ' then take a stewpan (sufficiently large [ to hold all the ingredients and put in a j good piece of butter, stick in a li'tR- flour, and keep stirring till it is coloured of a nice brown; then put in the herbs and soup; boil it till the herbs are tender, I and the soup of a proper consistence, i then pour the soup into a tureen, amt I send to table ; serve with fried brc.id, eitlicr in the soup or in a dish. I Soup d /n (irimod.*—'\'\ tissacapon, and ' pat it into a saucepan with .i couple of pigeons, three pounds of steaks (all tied I