ORA ( 359 ) ORA the inner part of the onions, and fill them with a quentlle farce, put them into a Rtewpan, let tliem all lay flat, cover them with slices of bacon, add some water, a little salt, and a small quantity of sugar, set them on a large fire at first, but lessen the fire after- wards ; let them stand till done, then reduce the liquor, and make use of the onions as garnish for large dishes. ORANGE Biscuits.*—Take thegrated rind of an orange, six, fresh eggs, a quar- ter of a pound of flour, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar ; put these into a mortar, heat them to a paste, which put into cases, and bake like other biscuits. Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.— Boil some Seville oranges whole in seve- ral waters, till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice; then put the outsides into a mortar, and beat them very fine, add to it an equal weight of double re- fined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on china disheSi and set them in the sun, or before the fire ; when they are about half dry, cut them into what- ever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. Oranges in Bi-andy.* — Choose the oranges very round and smooth, pare, prick them in the middle, and put them into cold water ; then hlanch them in boiling water; when they are tender, throw them again into cold water; in a short time give them seven or eight boils in sugar, d la petite nappe, skim, and let them stand till next day, when the same process must be gone through ; skim them again, then put them into bottles, pour over them equal quantities of syrup and water; take care to cork them well. Oranges in Brandy. — Choose your oranges as near of a size as you can, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins with ease; do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end; give them a boil in some cla- rified sugar, and set them aside; the next day, drain ofl’ the syrup, boil and pour it on the fruit whilst hot; on the third day repeat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together ; take out the fruit, add ns much brandy as syrup, make it hot, but it must not boil; when cold, pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. Orange Butter. — Take half a dozen eggs, and boil them hard, heat them in a mortar, with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste. Moisten with orange-flower waters and when all is mi.xed, rub it through a cullender, on a dish, and serve with sweet biscuits between. ORAHGE3 Buttered Hot. — Take four Seville oranges, grate oli'a little of the outside rind, and cut a round hole at the blunt end of the or.ange, opposite the stalk, sufficiently large to take out the pulp, seeds, and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges over with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. Be care- ful to save the bits you cut out of the oranges. Boil the oranges in fresh water until they are tender, changing the water to take out the bitterness._ In the mean- time, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up ; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and let them remain in hot till they are to be served. About half an hour liefore you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set it over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spooiiful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the pieces which were cut out of the oranges at the top. Orange Cheesecakes.—Blanch eight ounces of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and heat and sift half a pound of sugar, and melt a pound of butter very carefully without oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes), then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fre.shone (having previously boiled out the bitterness) in a mortar, till as ten- der as marmalade, without any lumps; then mix the whole together, and put into patty-pans. Oranges, Compote of.*—Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water until tlicy are tender, then change them into cold water ; next make a syrup with one glass of water and four ounces of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it sim- mer gently over a slow fire for half an hour ; serve cold. Oranges, Compoteof.*—Takeasmany oranges as you may require, pare them neatly, cut them into quarters, which, (as you lake out the pips) throw into cold water; then scald them, and tvhew they appear soft, throw them again into cold water; in the mean time boil some sugar to petit lisse, put the oranges in, and having given them several boils to- gether, set them to cool. When quite