218 DUG D U C pound of double-refined sifted sugar; mix them together well, until it becomes a stiff paste; divide this into five parts, four of which must be tinged as follows : red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth left white), witli the usual colouring ma- lei'ials. Before, however, they are co- loured, add to each piece, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in water occasionally, to enalde it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When you mix in the colouring materials, add also a corre- sponding perfume ; as, to the red, rose- water, and a few drops of essence of roses; to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, essence of cedar ; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white, mix a little orange-flower water, and some drops of essence of Neroli. Your paste being thus prepared, form it of whatever little ornaments you please, such as eggs, balls, turnips, (adding green leaves to these), &c.of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c. of the blue ; and so on ; rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small; to those which imitate fruits, add tails and tops, cut from cherry-stalks, and stuck on whilst the paste is damp; and with a hair- pencil, dipped in powdered cinnabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the surface. When all are done, put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days, to dry. DUCK en Aiguillettes.*—When the duck is about three parts done, accord- ing to the directions for duck poe/e, drain and place it on the dish; then iiiak eight incisions on the breast, four on each side ; take a tea-spoonful of shalots shred fine, put them into astewpan with twolarilesful oi blond, pepper, nutmeg, and salt; boil them togetlier a little while, add the juice of two lemons, and pour this sauce on the breast, so that it may flow into the incisions. Duck, Fillets of, en Allumettes.*— Cut the meat nfl' a roasted duck, into long fillets, dip them in good liatter, and fry tiiem in fresh butter of a good colour; as soon as they are done, strew over them some fine salt, and having fried some chervil for five minutes in tlie same pan, lay it in a dish, witli the fillets on it, arranged like bundles of matches. Ducks, 7fo/7c</.—Take a nice tat duck; salt it two days, ilien let it boil slowly in aciolli. Serve it witli onion sauce, but melt the hulter nilh milk, iii.stcad of wjitrr. Duck. Uoiled d la Franqaisc.—Vni wo dozen of roaslcu chesnuts into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions, if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and half roast it; put it into the gravy, and let it stew for ten minutes; put in a quarter of a pint of red wine; when the duck is done enough take it out. boil up the gravy to a proper thickness; skim ofl' the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Ducks, Braised.*—Lard two_ young ducks, and place them in a braising-pan with a slice of ham, onions, salt, pepper, a bay-leaf, and a glass of stock ; close the pan, and let it stand over a gentle fire till done; serve them with tlieir own liquor. Morels, capers, and artichoke- bottoms may he added, they must be cooked separately in consomme or veal gravy. Ducks u la Bruxelles.*—Cwt a veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into ■dice, and mix them with some mush- rooms, green onions, parsley, and two shalots, all shred fine, some salt, and whole pepper; put the whole into the inside of the duck; sew it up to prevent any from falling out, and stew the duck, with a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a par- snip, and a bundle, of sweet herbs. When done, strain off'the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. Ducks, to choose.—Their feet should be supple, and they should be hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dusky yellow. The feet ol a wild duck are reddish, .and smaller than the tame; they should be. picked dry. Duck- lings should be scalded. Duck ( CuUis o/).—Roast a duck, and then pound it in a mnrt.ar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stc.vpan with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory, let them all stew toge- ther ; when ihcy have stewed .some time, pound them witli the meat of the duck, and toss them up in a pan with melted lard ; put in some veal gravy to give it a pale colour, ami strain it. DUCKLINGS d la Cur/nclitc.*-'Urd. the fleshy parts of a couple of young ducks, and put them into a stewpaa with cquid quantities of hrotli .and white wine, a little coriander-.=eed. a slice or two Ilf leiiiiin. and some truflles. cover your pan, and stew them. M hen done, take oil'the fat, ami serve with their own j;rnvy. Duck, dressed in different trnys.—■< 'l ake either a large duck, er two luck-