C III C II I () them for an hour; take ofl' the bacon carefully; add ciillis to the sauce, skim and strain it over the chickens. Chickens, Horlyof*—Singe, and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar; sea- son them with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, two bay-leaves, and the juice of two lemons; wash and peel a di zen large onions, as near of the same size as they can be ; cut them into slices of equal thickness, making use only of the outer rings. About liali an hour before they are wanted, drain your pieces ol chicken, sprinkle them well with flour, and put them into a moderately heated pan; when they are of a proper colour, and sufficiently done, lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your pan very hot, and having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour; drain them on a cloth ; dish the chickens en buisson, with the onions on the top, and a hot aspic underneath. Chicke.n d VIndienne.* — Fry some sliced onions in lard, with a little flour ; when of a nice colour, take them out carefully, and keep them hot; in the same lard fry a chicken, blanched and cut up ; do it of a good colour, and then add some slock ; season it with salt, allspice, cayenne pepper, and turmeric ; when the chicken is done enough, put in the onions, and let all boil together for two or three minutes. Serve some plain boiled rice on a separate dish, to eat with it. Chickens d I’lvoire. — Pull out the breast-bones of a couple of chickens, and then fill them with butter, lemon-juice, salt and pepper, well mixed together; bind up the chickens, and put them into astewpan, lined with bacon; cover the breasts with slices of lemon and bacon, pour some poele on them. When they have stewed for half an hour, drain, un- b'nd, and serve them with veloute or buchamelle. «, Chickens d la Jardiniere.*—Sorkyour chickens (having tiussed and cut each in half), in hot butter, parsley, scallions, garlic, mushrooms, (all chopped), salt and pepper ; make as much ot these ad- here to the. chickens as you possibly can ; cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them, basting fiequently with the remainder of the butter. When of the proper colour, make a sauce witli a little gravy, three spoonsful of verjuice, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and the yolks of two eggs; thicken this, and pour it over the chickens when ready to serve. Chickens in Jelly, or an Pere Donillet. —Lard a couple of chickens wdth bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil them with a knuckle of veal, half a pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, and coriander; when done, take out the chickens, and let them cool; tlien skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time, with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it; when that is done, strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just big enough to hold them; wash them over with white of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour tiiem if you think proper. Let the chickens lay with the breasts downwards, and cover them with the jelly. When they are wanted, place the pan a minute in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. Chickens en Lezard.* — Draw and singe two fine chickens, take off the drumsticks and pinions, leaving the skin ; split them open thiough the back, bone them entirely, and lay them on a cloth ; fill the inside with a farce, made with ready dressed fowl, truffles, cham- pignons, tongue « Vecarlate, and calf’s udoer, cut into dice ; form the cliickena with the farce into the shape of lizards, as follows: the skin of the rump make the tail, the thighs make the hind, and the wings the fore-legs, the breast lorrna the hack, and the head is composed of a truffle cut like that of a lizard. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the lizards, carefully preserving their shape, and stew them, covered with a thick paper and the lid of the stewpan. When done, drain, and set them to cool. Place them on your dish ; glaze and decorate them with small omelets, either white, green, red or yellow; serve them on a green magnonnaise, and garnish the dish with jelly. Chicken Loo/.*—Bone a chicken very carefully, and fill it with a ragofit of sweetbreads; make it as near as possible the original form ; tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, with sweet herbs. Serve it witli espaqnole. Chickens d la Marengo.*—Cnt up a roasted chicken, and fry it in olive oil, witli salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs ; when of a proper colour, take out the chicken ; place it in a dish, and pour over some well redticed sauce Italiemie; garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. Chickens d la Marice. — 'J'ake the bones from two small chickens, and fill tliem With a farce made of fat livers, parsley, shalots, b.asil, (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper and salt. Soak them for some time in od, then wrap them in thin slices of bacon, veal and bam, over that, double-buttered paper. Stew them on a slow lire till