FOR FOR ( 417) an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. Pork, with Sart.*—Take any joint pf fresh killed pork you like, sprinkle it with coarse salt and spices ; the next day spit, and roast it, basting with its oivn ravy; take care tliat it is thoroughly one. Serve with whatever sauce or garnish you please. Some persons lard it with green sage before it is roasted. Pork(/»wA) Cuttwo or three ' good-sized onions into slices, and fry them lightly in oil; then add two spoons- ! ful of cullis, a little broth, a few mush- rooms, chopped, a clove of garlic, vine- gar and spice. Let it boil half an hour, reduce to a proper consistence, skim ana strain it. Pork Sausages.—Take two pounds of lean pork, three pounds of chine fat, free j from skin, some sage leaves, chopped line, pounded cloves, pepper and salt; beat it fine, and either press it into pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into skins. ' Pork Sausages.*—Take one third fat, and two thirds lean fresh pork, chop it ' well, but not too fine: season with salt, pepper and spices, and put it into a pan, ' which set on hot ashes for half .an hour ; clean the guts thoroughly (they may be of any animal), tie one end, and fill them \ with tlie above, gradually, pressing them gently that the meat may descend to the bottom ; divide, and tie them in wlmt lengths you please. Pork Sausages.—Take pork in which there is more fat than lean, mince it with t parsley and young onions, and season r with salt and fine spices; put the whole I, into the gut of a calf or pig, tie the sau- h sages of a proper length, and broil them ; [i you may gtve them any flavour you think I proper, with truffles, shalots, &c. If witli truffles, mince them with the meat according to the quantity you choose; if r with shalots, you must use very little, 1 for fear the taste should predominate too much. Flat sausages are made in the I same manner, with this difference, that the mentis put into a pig’s maw. Some li persons add a glass of white wine to the !i sausage meat when mixing. I Pork Sa^^^ag•es.—Take eight pounds of [i lean pork, free from gristle and skin ; ► shred and chop it very fine, then chop f four pounds of beef suet, and four pounds ij of pork fat, shred extremely fine, and a |i good handful of sage; spread the meat )l out upon a large dish, and shake sage N over It: grate in two nutmegs, add a • Spoonful of salt, and about three spoons- « ful of sweet herbs, very finely chopped; 1 shake over it the pork fat and the suet, then mix all well together; pot it close down with paper over it. It will be much better for letting it stand a day or two. When you wish to make them up, roll them up about the size of a sausage, dip them in egg, and then roll them in flour; have some butter on the fire, and when very hot, put them in, shaking them about nearly the whole time, till they are done of a fine colour; tlien serve them hot to table. If you choose you may put them into skins, taking care that they are very clean, filling them very gently with a funnel, otherwise they may stand a chance of being broken; these are best for garnishing a turkey. Pork Sausage to Eat Cold.— Season fat and lean pork with salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalots, or garlic, as fine as pos- sible. Have ready an ox gut, that has been scoured, salted, and well soaked, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it up to smoke, the same as a ham, first wrapping it in a fold or two of muslin. It must be high dried. Some persons eat it without boiling, others prefer it boiled. The skin should be tied in several places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Pork, Spring or Forehand.—Take out the bone; then sprinkle over the inside some salt, pepper, and sage, dried ; but first warm a little butter to baste ; then flour it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; then roast it by a hanging jack. It will take about two hours to roast. Pork, Chine of.*—Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick, score it, and skewer it into proper form, roast it for two hours ; serve it with tomata, piquante, or Robert sauce. Pork {Chine of) Roasted.—If parted down the back-bone, so as to have but one side, it will take two hours to roast before a good fire; but if not parted it will take three hours. Chines are usually salted and boiled. Pork (Chine of) Stuffed. — Take a chine of pork that has hung four or five tlaj^; cut some holes in llie lean, and stuff it with a little of the leaf fat, chop- ped extremely small, some parsley, thyme, a small quantity of sage, and shalots, cut very fine, seasoned with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg ; it should be stuff- ed pretty thick, and served with good gravy in the dish. Applesauce, and potatoes should be served with it. Pork Chops, Broiled.—Ilroil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they require more doing. Put a little good gravy to them, and strew over a