VE A ( 487 ) V E A ladiesful of it, mix three of espagnole; reduce, and pour it into the dish, witli the chops. Veal, Chump of, d la Daub/;.—Cut on the chump end of the loin; take out the edge bone, and put in its place some good forcemeat; tie it up tight, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone that has been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of wliite paper over it. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer for a couple of hours ; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom, or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any other sauce you think bet- ter. Veal Cutlets, in Crtwf.—Make a mari- nade with melted butter, mushrooms, shalots, half a clove of garlic, pepper and salt, and let the cutlets simmer in this for an hour; then wrap them in pufl' paste with all the seasoning; put them in a deep dish, and bake them in the oven; baste with yolks of eggs; make a hole in the middle, into which pour a good clear sauce when ready to serve. Veal Cutlets, Marinaded.—Veal cut- lets marinaded, are done the same as in all former directions for marinade; or you may do them the same as a breast of veal marinaded, and serve with whatever sauce you approve of. Veal Cutlets, in Paper.—C\wp up all sorts of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt; mix these with a little oil, roll the cutlets in it so that they may be well covered ; then wrap them in paper, well buttered; broil them slowly, and serve either with or without sauce. You may also wrap them, if you think proper, in very thin slices of bacon. Veal Cutlets d la ProvenQale.*—Lard some well-shaped cutlets with anchovies and gherkins, and soak them for half an hour in some oil, with pepper, and salt; tie each cutlet in a rasher of hacon, and stew them in some butter, with parsley, salt, pepper, and two glasses of stock. When done, untie, but do not take oft' the bacon. Serve with their own sauce reduced. Veal Cutlets, in Ragodt.—Cut some large cutlets from the tillet; beat them flat, and lard them ; strew them over with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; then make a. ragodt ol veal sweetbreads and mushrooms: fry the cutlets of a nice broAvn in melted but- ter; then lay them in a dish, and serve the ragodt very hot over them. Veal Cutlets en Redingotes.*—Pre- pare your cutlets in the same manner as veal chops, enpapillotes ; but instead of wrapping them in paper, envelop them with their seasoning in pieces of light paste, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, pour veal gravy over, and serve the cutlets hot. Veal Cutlets, with Sour Sauce.—Let the cutlets be cut moderately thick ; put them into a saucepan, with just suffi- cient water to cover them ; when half done, take them out, and let them drain and cool; make a thin batter with eggs and a little flour ; set a frying-pan on the lire, with some lard ; as soon as it is hot, dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown; serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. Veal Cutlets, Stewed.—Cut part of the neck into cutlets ; shorten them, and fry them of a nice brown colour ; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender; then add some ketchup, cayenne, salt, a few truffles, and morels, and some pickled mushrooms. Forcemeat-balls are a great improvement. Veal Cutlets, and Sweet Herbs.—Chop all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shalots, pepper and salt, a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, and reduce the sauce to make it stick; then do them over with egg, and bread crumbs.'and set them in the oven to bake; add a glass of white wine, and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done, lay them on a dish, and serve them to table, with the sauce poured over. Veal {Fillet of) in a Ragodt.—Take out the bone from a nice large white fillet of veal, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well; put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and roast it; have a ragodt the same as for loin of veal, with ragodt; cut the arti- chokes into any form you may think pro- per; place the veal in the centre of the dish, the artichokes round; serve the ragodt round, but not over, the veal. Veal, Fillet of, Stuft'it with the same ingredients as directed for the shoulder, and roast it according to the same directions. See shoulder of veal roasted. The fat should be papered. Veal, Fillet cf. Slewed.—Stutfit; half bake it, with a little stock in the dish: then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy, and a little Madeira; when done enough, thicken the sauce with flour ; add ketchup, cay- enne, a little salt, and lemon-juice ; give it a boil, and serve it over the meat. Veal Gristles, ati Blanc.*—Cut the gristles of any form you choose; scald.