( 4 71 ) T R U T R 0 doves, mace, sliced ginger, savory, sweet inarj.irum, tliyme, roseinaiy, a bay-leaf, and two onions ; let all these boil together for a quarter of an hour; put tlie fish into a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and white wine, which must be according to the quantity of fisli, as tliere must be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them ; they will then keep for -a month. Serve with oil ai.d vinegar. Tkout ft la Mafiniire,*—Seale, and cleanse yonr fish as usual ; put inside each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; put them into a stewpan, with as much white wine as will rise about an inch above them, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, onions, and crou- tons; set the whole on a fierce fire; if the wine does not citch, set it alight with a piece of lighted paper. When done, put into the sauce a bit of butter; this, if well stirred in, will make the liquor sraoolli and rich ; pour it over the fish and serve. Thout Pie.—Nicely lard a couple of trout with eels ; raise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom ; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and fresh butter; season with salt, pepper, and spice, and bind it with the yolks of two raw eggs; stuff the trout with this forcemeat,-then lay them in the pie upon the butter, and cover them with butter ; put on the lid, and send it to the oven; when done, pour in some good fish gravy. Trout d la Saint Florcntin*— Cut some fillets of trout the length and thickness of a finger; put these pieces into a pan, with the juice of two lemons, four onions sliced, parsley, two bay- leaves, a little thyme, salt, and pepper ; move them about frequently. VVhen they have lain in it sufficiently long, drain them thoroughly; flour, and fry them in a very hot pan ; serve them with sauce piquanie. Trout Well wash a couple of middling sized trout; then take three pints of wliite wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, salt, mace, and a grated nutmeg; boil all these together in a stewpan suffi- ciently inrge to hold the trout; when it has boiled some time, put in the fish ; as soon as they are done, lay them in a dtsh till they are cold; pour oQ’ the liquor, take out the onion,and herbs, and let it stand till cold ; then talce olT all the far, and pour the liquor over the fish ; they will be ready for use the next day; if sent to table hot, serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good served cold. Trout Stewed.— Take a small one, stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, savory herbs, bind with yolk of egg; put it into a stewpan, nith a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little wliole pepper, a few cloves, and a piece ol lemon- peel; let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, a little ketchup; boil it up; squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Trout tvit/i Truffles.* -^When scaled and cleansed, lard them with truffles, and fill each witli some fine truffle /u7‘ce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt anil pepper. Serve them with a ragoflt of sliced truffles. Trout d la Vinitienne.*—Slit tlie fi.--h along the back, and put in a little butter and sweet herbs ; soak them for half an hour in olive oil, then cc.ver them with bread crumbs and sweet herbs ; boil them over a slow fire; serve with a sauce, in which put two slices of orange. TRUFFLES.* — The truffle, like the mushroom, is a species of fungus com- mon in France and Italy; it generally grows about eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground ; ns it imparls a most delicious flavour, it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing, before it can be applied to culinary purposes; when washed, the water should be warm, and changed Ire- quently._ It loses much of its flavour when dried. T ruffles ft la Cendi-e.*—Take a dozen truffles dressed with Champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles; cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, on some of these put a bit of bacon, and a truffle seasoned with pep- per. salt, and pounded spice ; wrap them in the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done,dipeach paperintocold water, and then put them into hot ashes, like chesnuts. In an hour’s time they will be sufficiently done. Take off the two outer coverings, and serve. Truffles ivith Champagne.*—Take ten or twelve well cleaned truffles; put them into a stewpan on rashers of bacon, add a bay-leaf, a seasoned bouquet, grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle ol Champagne ; co- ver them with a piece of buttered payer, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on liot ashes; put fire on the top, and let 2 S 2