BEE (47) BEE breads, livers of capons, miisliroonis, tiufilea. tops of asparagus, and bottoms of artichoke, toss tliese up with some melted bacon, moisten them with good gravy, and thicken it with acullus made of veal and gammon of bacon. Beef £rofA.—Take a leg of beef, crack the bone in two or three parts, wash it clean, put it into a pot with a gallon of water, skim it well, then put in two or tliree blades of mace, a little bundle of parsley, and a crust of bread ; let it boil till the beef is quite tender, toast some bread, cut it into dice, put them in a tureen ; lay in the meat, and pour the Boup over it. Beef Cakes (for a side-dish of dressed Meat.)—'PoxxnA some beef that is under done with a little fat bacon or ham ; sea- son with pepper, salt, and a little shallot or garlick ; mix them well: and make it into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick ; fry them in a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. Beef (cold) Broiled in Paper.—Soak some slices of cold beef in a marinade made of oil or butter, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll the pieces in paper with this sauce, rub tbe paper with butter, broil on a slow fire, and serve in the paper. Beef Collared.—Choosethethin endof theflan kof fine mellowbeef,but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, ana keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part,and cover itthick with the following seasoning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper,salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight w bile hot, without undoing it; the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. Beef Collared.—Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth ; take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across ; season it with spice, two anchovies, a handful of thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter sa- vory, onions, and fennel; strew it on the meat,_roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in acollar pot, with a pint of red wine, cochineal, and two nuarts of pump water. VVhen cold, take it out of the cloth. Beep Cof/ops.—Take the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small thin slices, and fry them till three parts done; then add to them slices of pickled cucumbers, small mushrooms stewed, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and stew them till tender. Beef Chitterlings.—Take the entrails of beef, carefully clean them, cut them, and marinate them five or six hours in a glass of Madeira, or other white wine, two cloves of garlick, thyme, bay and basil; cut into fillets some ox palates, or ox tongue and tripe, each first three parts boiled ; also cut into small pieces, cow’s udder and pickled pork ; mix the whole of these together, and add sliced onions, fried in butter or lard, four yolks of eggs raw, salt, and the best spices: with these, fill the entrails, and boil them half an hour in fat broth, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, three spices of cloves, sliced car- rots and parsnips, and let them cool in their liquor. Wipe them well before you broil them. Beef Cullis.—Roast a pi ece of buttock of beef very brown ; then cut off all the brown part, and whilst hot beat it in a mortar, with some partridge (or fowl), and crusts of bread, then put it into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, then strain it for use. Beef d la Daube.—Take a round, a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown ; put it into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold it; add some gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, half a pint ol white wine, a gill of vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very close, let it but jus t si mmer till it is tender; take two ox palates, tivo sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all together in some gravy, and pour over the beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, make some long, others round, dip some sippets into batter, fry and cutthem three corner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay the balls round the dish. Beef Dolpettes d I'Italienne.*—Take some cold roast fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop up your meat as small as possible, and put into a re- duced boiling Spanish sauce, adding a little crumb of bread, a little grated par- mesan cheese, some whole pepper, and two eggs ; then leave it to cool. Wlien cold, mould them into large balls; rub them over with egg, and then strew them over with grated parmesan cheese and bread crumbs; fry them in clarified