COD ( 177 ) COD fire; when it has boiled up several times, skim, and cover it close for a mi- nute ; then drain and put it into a stew- pan with butter, parsley, scallions cut small, salt, coarse pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wlien the butter is melted and well soaked into the fish, serve it with sauce d la Mailre d'Mtel, and lemon- juice. Cod {Salt) d la Mailre d’Hotel.*—V\xt the fish when soaked, &c. into a fish- kettle with cold water; when near boil- ing, skim it, and the moment it does boil take it from the fire, and cover it with a cloth for seven or eight minutes ; then drain and place the fish, with parsley, chopped scallions, pepper, nutmeg, a bit of butter, and a spoonful of sweet oil on a dish, make it quite hot, and serve im- mediately. Cod {Salt) Marinated and Fried.*— Having boiled and flaked it, marinate it 1 for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrots and cloves. Drain it well, and dry it, flour and fry it. Serve with fried parsley. Cod {Salt) Pie.*—Put some flakes of boiled cod (eold)’into a puff paste, with butter, pepper and sweet herbs; when baked take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce a/acj’e'tne. Cod (Salt) d la Provengale.*—Pre- pare and boil the cod as d la Mailre d’Hotel; put it into a stewpan with fresh butter, pepper, nutmeg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this together well, and then put in your fish, make it quite hot, stirring constantly. Serve with the sauce over it and a little lemon-juice. Secondf Vuxj.*—When the fish is boiled, f take ofl'the skin, bone, crush it with a I spoon, and then pound it. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, and pour in, a little at a time, half a pound of sweet oil, shake it about, and to prevent its turn- P ing, put in frequently some garlic- U water. When the fish has thoroughly P imbibed the oil, squeeze on it some n lemon-juice, and serve it. Garnish with E fried crusts. j Third fVay.*—Spread some butter on a dish, and lay on it parsley, shalots, I scallions, garlick, pepper, nutmeg, and I a spoonful of oil. Place the cod (boiled I and in flakes) on this seasoning, and i cover it with the same; moisten it with i sweet oil; strew bread-crumbs, drop a 1 little more oil over, and colour it in the r oven, or with a salamander. Lemon- ' juice may be added. Cod (Salt) en Stinquerque.*—Take a i; <lish that will bear the fire, and put into P U a bit of butter, -with some parsley, scallions, garlic, and anchovies, all minced, pepper, and a few whole capers; on this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on, alter- nately, until the dish is quite full; cover the whole with bread-crumbs, place tlie dish on a stove, let it boil a little while. Brown it with the salamander. Cod {Salt) uu Verd-pre.*—Boil the fish in butter and sweet herbs; dishit, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon-juice over, and serve It hot with any other seasoning. _ Cod Sounds.—This is the white skin of the .belly, and is reckoped a great de- licacy,’and may be either boiled, broiled, or fried. Previous to dressing either way, they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. Cod Sounds, Boiled with Gravy.— Scald them in hot water, and rub them well with salt; blanch them, that is, take off the blacked dirty skin, then, set them on in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on the gridiron. In the meantime, take a little good gravy, a little mustard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cod Sounds, en Poule.—Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters and an- chovies, bread-crumbs, a little butter, hind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water, three or four sounds, and v/hen cold, put a layer of the forcemeat on each, and roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them. Lard them, sprinkle flour over, and cook them gently in a Dutch oven. Serve with oyster-sauce. Cod {Salt), Tails of, d VAnglaise.— Make a sauce with the pulp of two le- mons, some anchovies cut into dice, shred parsley and scallions, a little pep- per, garlic, a small piece of butter, and about the same quantity of oil; heat it up gently, stirring it constantly. Pour half this sauce on a dish, place the salt cod (ready boiled) in it, garnish it with fried cuusts, pour the remainder of the sauce over; cover it with raspings, and cook it in a slow oven for a quarter of an hour. Clean the edges of the dish, and serve. Cod {Salt) Tail of, forced.—Ruh two handsful of hread-cruinbs mixed with a pint of milk through a cullender; boil it until the bread is very thick, and then set it to cool; after this, put to it a piece of batter the size of an egg, parsley, chopped scallions, salt, pepper, and