CAL ( lo-l ) CAL Cast’s Ears Stuffed.*-~Sca.\d two or tliree pair of calf's ears, and liaving blanched, cool and singe them ; fill each ear witli a good stulling, press it in well; dip the ears in egg, cover them with bread crumbs, fry them of a nice brown ; serve with clear gravy. Cau'’s Ei/es.—Clear away all the im- proper parts, blanch and cook them in a braise, made with white wine, stock, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. When done they may be served with any kind of sauce you please. You may also fry them with bread crumbs, &c. Calf’s Feet Blanc-man^e,— Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet, slice them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of Mountain wine, and rather more water; let them stewgently; add the yolks of thite eggs beaten and strained, with a quarter of a pint of cream and a little flour, alittle lemon peel and juice, sweeten with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. When nearly cold, stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make them plump, almonds blanched and cut into slips, citron, lemon and orange peel sliced. It may be put in a basin ; when cold turn it out. Calf’s Feet plain, boiled* — Clean and skin the feet well; take out the large bones, boil them till tender, and serve with salt, pepper, vinegar, and sweet herbs. Calf’s Feet Broth.—Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly, then strain, and set the liquor on the fire again with a little mace in it; put about half a pint of sack to two quarts of the broth ; add half a pound of currants; beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire ; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste; stir in a small piece of butter, and just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. Calf’s Feet Fried.* — Divide four calves’ feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water. Then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vinegar, garlic, shalot, parsley, green, onions, thyme, laurel and parsley. After they have laid some hours in this, take them out,coverthem well with flour and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Feet, and Chaudron a I’lta- lienne.*—Make a stuffing with the crumh of a small loaf, a pound of suet, nn onion, parsley, pepper, salt, garlic, and eight or ten eggs ; put this into the chaudron, and tie it up. Put the feet into a deep stew- pan, over a slow fire, till the bones are loose, then put in two quarts of green pease, and add the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of a lemon, and seasoQ it with pepper, salt, mace, onion, parsley, and garlic. Put the chaudron in the middle of your dish, and the calf’s feet round. Oarnish with fried suckers, and sliced onions. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Take the fat and bones from eight calves’ feet, and soak them in water for three or four hours ; then boil them in six quarts of water, skimming often; when reduced to a third, strain and set it by to cool; when cold, take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may liave settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen_ pan, adding to it two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of twelve eggs with three pounds of fine sugar, mix these with the jelly. i boil it gently, adding the juice ol two ^ lemons, and then strain it for use. Another IVay.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, and mix with it the juice of a Seville orange aud twelve lemons, the peels of three, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, about a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of cori- ander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised and previously mixed together. Boil it a 'quarter of an hour without stirring : then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a little of the jelly, and mix with a tea-cup- ful of water, in which beet-root has been boiled, run this tlirough the bag when all the rest is done, this forms a garnish for the other. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Wash and set on the fire in cold water, four calf's feet, observing when they begin to bo'il, to skim it well; set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours; when all the bones are separated, pas.s the liquor tlirough a silk sieve, into a large basin orj pan; when cold, and a jelly, take all the fat from the top, wipe it well off with paper, that not the least particle remain, then set it on the fire again to boil, skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whites of six eggs in .a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit oflemon peel, and the juice of four lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle of bucellas wine; mix them well together, and examine the jelly that no fat may remain ; if there should, take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan. with the wine and other things, set it on the fire and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for three