BEK ( 51 ) BEE Beep Ki.lnies, a In Bourgeoise.*— Take some kuliieya, cut tliern into thin slices, and broil them with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, and Htreen onions, and a clove oi garlic, the whole should be shred line; when they are sullicientlv done, take them oil the fire (they should not hioil too long, or they will become tougli); add, when you serve them, a few drops of vinegar and a little cullia. Beef kidneys inny likewise be served d la bruise, with shalot sauce, or ss.ncepiq'tante. Beef Kidiie’i and Mustard Sauce.— Fry sliced onions in butter to half; cut the kidney into small pieces, and put it to the onions in a atewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew it on a slow lire (the kidney will furnish liquor enough); add the mustard when ready. Beef kidneys make very good gravy. Ubef Kidueg Pie.—Cut some kidneys into thin slices, and place them in the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; continue this till the dish is full, then cover the whole with slices of bacon, then finish your pie ; bake it in the oven ; when done, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; make a sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable quantity ofcullis, and reduce it to the consist- ence of a good sauce, then squeeze a Seville orange in it. Serve your pie hot. Beef Kidneys, aic saut£.*—C\ii the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shalots, mushroom, salt, pep- p w, and a little grated nutmeg; then thicken witha pinch of Hour, and moisten ivith half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of Spanish sauce; take it off the fire before it boils, add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidney hot, and garnish with fried bread. Beef Kidney shredded.—Take a kid- ney, braze it till very tender; shred it, then serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or ' any other greens you like better. It should he rather highiv relished. BbevKidneyswith IVim S’r«/ce.*—Cut the kidneys into thin slices, sprinkle ttiem with flonr.'and fry them in butter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions,shred line. When fried, moisten them with white wine, then add a little stock, and serve. Bf.f.v {Minced)—Shred the underdone part fine; with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft,'then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mi.'c a large spoon- ful of vinegar witli it; if shallot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. Beef, Minced.* — Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spa- nish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. Beef, Minced.*—yiiwa your beef very small; put it into a saucepan with a little gravy and a little of the fat of fowl or any other fat, moisten it with some stock and a little white wine; sea- son according to your taste, then let it simmer over a gentle fire till it is suffi- ciently done. Beef, Minced, d la Vinaigrette*— Mix up some salt, pepper, and a little mustard with a spoonful of vinegar; add some sweet herbs, shalots, &c., pickled cucumbers, cut very small; then mix the whole together, with two or three spoonsful of oil of olives ; put this pre- paration into a dish, and serve your minced beef over it. Beef en Miroton *—Brown, in butter, some slices of onions, moisten with a little stock ; then put in your slices of beef, let it boil a short time, then serve \tcn Miroton; add some mustard, ora little vinegar. Beef d la Mode.*—Take a rump or piece of beef, hone it, beat it well and lard it with fat bacon, then put it into a stew-pan with some rind of bacon, a calf’s foot, an onion, carrot, a biincli of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper, pour over the w'hole a glass of water, let itstewover a slow fire for six hours at least. A clean cloth should be placed over the stew-pan before the lid is put on, which, must te carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the .'’at, and serve. Beef d la Mode.*—VVelllard and spice a piece of beef; put it into a stewpan, with some carrots-, onions, a calf’s foot, boned, and seasoned according to taste; moisten with stock or white wine (put a Cloth round the lid of the stewpan), and let it cook over a gentle fire. 11 may be served either hot or cold. The gravy should be strained through a sieve. Beef d la Mode.*—Take some of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or small round, (what is generally called the