HAG ( 278 ) H A M chovief*, keep it on the fire, shaking con- stantly till the fish are done, dish them, and pour the sauce over. H. HADDOCKS. — Are chosen by the same rules as cod, and are in season during July, August, and September. Haddocks are plain boiled in the same manner as cod, or broiled like whitings ; both are served with anchovy sauce; either way they are good with a stuffing inside. The dried haddock sliould be soaked a short time in warm w’ater, then laid on a gridiron, ever a very clear fire, and slightly broiled ; send them to table in a napkin, and eat them with cold butter. Hapdocks Boiled.— Fill a fish kettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt; put the haddocks into this, over the fire; as soon as they begin to boil, salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer ; when done, drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve with Dutch sauce. Haddocks Broiled.*—Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress ; and toss up the fish in some egg, beaten with pepper and salt; take them out, and bread them ; then, having dipped them in clarified butter, bread them a second time; broil the haddocks to a nice colour, over a moderate fire ; be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them over a good Italienne sauce. Haddock Dried.—Takethe eyes,gills, and entrails, from the_ fish, also any blood which may settle in them. Wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them; let them lay twenty-four hours, and then run a string through the eyes, and hang them in a dry place. HAGGIS.-^Take the heart and lights of n sheep, blanch and mince them ; then a pound of beef-stiet (chopped fine), the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, a little mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves, (all pounded), half a pint of sw'eetwine, a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, asiifficient quantity of flour to make it of a proper consistence, a little salt, tlie yolks of three eggs, and some sheep’s chitterjings, well cleaned and cut into slips. Mix these together ; have ready cleaned a sheep's bag. put in the above, tie it tight, and boil it three houi-s. Hagois Sc'IcIi. — Take the liver and lights of a sheep, boil them, the latter partly only, but the former till it is firm ; grate hall of it, and mince the lights, a piece of beef, some suet, and onions, mix these ingredients with dried flour, or meal, salt, and pounded spice; make some broth, with a little beef and the water in which the liver, &c. were boiled, and put it with the rest of the materials into a well cleaned sheep’s bag ; tie it up tight, and boil it. HAM {Directions for choosing).— In choosing a ham, run a knife into it at the knuckle; if it comes out clean and smells sweet, the ham is good; but if, on the con- trary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. Hams (Howto Dress).—If the ham has hung for a length of time, put into water for a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or damp stones sprinkled with water, two or,three days, to mellow, covering it tvith a heavy tub, to keep any vermin from it; wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer, four, five or six hours, according to its size ; when done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water ; take oflf the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings; garnish with car- rot; preserve the skin as whole as pos- sible. keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Ham to Boil.—Soak the. ham, according to its age, for twelve or twenty-four hrurs. Put it into a Isrge saucepan full of cold water, and, if a small one, let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half; when done, pull ofl'the skin, rnb it over with yolk of eg-. ;>trew bread- crumbs over, and brown it before the fire, erwith a salamander. Ham d la Braise.—Having taken the rind from a well-flavoured ham, soak it in cold water, tie it into a proper shape ; t.nke thus of ham and beef, brat and sea- son them with spice and sweet herl>s, shred small, lay them in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, and parsnips, sliced, parsley and scallicns; put the ham on this, the fat side uppermost,cover it with slices of bacon, beef, root,s and hei hs. as under; put on the lid. close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours, with fire above and below. S^t it by till cold, untie,and strew bread-crumhs on it. pats a salamander over to brown it. If it he served hot, pour on it the fol- lowing ragoftt; toss up veal sweet-breads, livers of fowl, cock's-combs. mushrooms, and truflles.in a little melted bacon ; then put .a little gravy, and simmer them for lialf an hour; take ofT the fat, and add veal and luiin cullis. Haji en Cingarat.*—Fry, or (if you like it better) stew some thin slices of ham, in tiieir own fat, over a slow lite; when done, toss up a little water, vine-