MAC ( 327 ) MAG up the back, rub them with a little but- ter; mix Slime bread-crumbs and shred parsley, cover the mackerel with this, and broil them ; when of a nice colour serve them with the following sauce:— Put some shred parsley, a small quan- tity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice into melted butter; stir them up toge- ther, and make it quite hot. Mackerel d Vltalierme* — Prepare your mackerel the same as for lahla- mande; put them into a stewpanwith half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions, and carrots, parsley, half a bay-leaf, and salt to the taste; stew them in this till done ; then drain and serve them with a white llalienne. Mackerel d la Maitre d’Hotel.*— Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish; take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish with a wet cloth, split it open along the back, from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish with salt, whole pepper, scallions, and parsley; pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them well. Half an hour before dinner, place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions, shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then adda glass of water and the juice of a lemon; set this over the fire, stirring till it boils, when it may bepoured overthe maclcerel. Mackerel, Pickled. — Clean and di- vide them ; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each side into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest owder; mix all together, and make oles in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them ; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning; then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put tliem into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar; if you intend to keep them for some time, pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be preserved for months. Mackerel, Potted.—They are potted in the same manner as eels. Mackerel, Roasted,.* — Soak three mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scallions, parsley, and shalots, all chop- ped; season it with salt and pepper; when they have laid in this for half an hour, fasten the mackerel to a spit, roast them before a small fire, basting with melted butter; just before they are done, strew bread-crumbs over; finish ana serve them withany fish-sauce youplease. Mackerel {soft Roes qf) en Caisscs,~ Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, put them into paper- cases with shred parsley, raspings, but- ter, salt, and pepper. Bake tliem, and when done, serve them with mleon- juice. _ , ^ Mackerel (soft Roes of) Petits-pates. —Take the soft roes from four mackerel; put them into a pan with clarified butter, sufficient to cover them; then put the pan into an oven ; when done, take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, w'hich put into petits-pates; keep thetrt hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce: Reduce two spoonsful of velmite and One olconsomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. Mackerel, Soused.—Thoroughly wash and clean them ; take out the roes, boil them in salt and water ; when they are done, take them out, and lay them in a deep dish; pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover them, with two or three bay-leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADELAINES.*—Take nine ounces of powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy,' and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually, until the paste thickens; after which, stir only one minute; clarify ten ounces of good fresh butter, with which, butter about two and thirty madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of the butter into your preparation; set it on a gentle stove, stir till it begins to become liquid, take it off before it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Madelaines en Sttrimse.* —Mdke youv madelames in the usual way ; when cold, cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out nearly all the inside; pound four ounces of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot marmalade, which mixture put into the madelaines, and place the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MAGNONNAISE d la Ravigotte.*— Take of chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, each n handful, and a little ciioi/fe/fe, and having picked and washed, scald them for five or six minutes in boiling water with a little salt in it; then let them cool, drain and squeeze out all the water, and pound them well, moistening witli a spoonful of the magnonmise (see Magnonnaise,fPhite); strain thisthrough a silk sieve, nnd mix it with a magnon- liaise ]orepared as above; if it be not