( .‘112 ) LEM LEM having let it boll up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day ; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times, having added a little fresh sugar, pour it over your lemons, and repeat this process for three, successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be toper/e; when the fruit must be boiled with it once, and then it may be put into pots. If you wish the preserve to be dry, lay the fruit on slates, and place them in a stove or oven to dry. Lemon Honeycomb.—Take the juice of one lemon, and sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which you intend to serve it. Beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. Lemon Ice Cream.—Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon ; add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream ; mix it all together, pass it throtigh a sieve, and freeze it. I.EMON, Ice with fVine.*—Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield half a pound, which filter through blot- ting paper. Put a pound and half of fine sugar, with a bottle of white wine, and lialfthe quantity of water on the fire; when it has boiled up three or four times, add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow; strain, and finish the ice as usual. Lemon Jelly.—Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water; when it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in two ounces of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon-peel cut very thin ; let these boil till you have squeezed through a sieve, into a basin, tlie juice of six lemons; then pass your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould, as any other jelly : when turned out, garnish it with dried jellies. Lemon Take five lai’ge lemons, Sflueeze nut the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs, well beaten, ten ounces of double-reiined su- gar, beaten very fine, twenty spoonsful of spring-water; mix all well together, strain it through a jelly-bag ; set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off, and jionr it into glasses, with shreds of lemon peel. LcMON-JUirE, Consertw of.*—Squeeze the juice ol three lemons into a silver dish, set it on a moderate fire, and let it stand till reduced to half; then add a pound of sugar boiled to catse, and finish the conserve in the usual way. Lemon-juice, to Keep. — Keep the lemons for two or three days in a cool place; if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them un- der your hand, they will then part with their juice more readily; others you may leave unpared for grating, when thepulp has been taken out, and they have neen dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin ; then strain it through some mus- lin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter of ounce phials, be carelul that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with the lemon-juice; fill them so near the top as only to admit hall a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make u.se of larger phials, you must put in rather more than half a tea-spoon- ful of sweet oil. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you will use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all is removed, the juice will be as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to dry, and keep them in a place free from dust. Lejions, to Keepfor Puddings.—When you squeeze the fi uit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp : let them re- main in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them in the same till tender; 6tr.ain it from them, and when they are nearly dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup, of common loaf- sugar and water, and pour over them ; ip a week or ten days, boil tliem gently Tn it till they look clear; and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut each half of the fruit in two. .and they w'ill occupy a smal'cr space. Lemon Loaves.—Cul the fruit in halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liouor, take out the pulp, boil the peels till the bitter is extracted ; then lay them in syrup for two days ; then boil the syrup they liave laid in, till it is of a good consi-itency. add the peels, and put them into gla.sses for use; when they arc wanted, t.akc what qiian tity is sulficientfora dish,and fill them with some pudding mixture, cither mar- row, bread, plum. &c. or with a ru^t,a^d, and hake them with the greatest care. Lemo.v Marmalade.—Take Imhar.oaen lemons, grate off two of tlie rinos ; then cut them all, and pick out the iusidc from