C II I slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions, in a atewpan; when the latter are half done, pour over them a pint of stock, a liltle white wine, fennel, parsley, &c.; the whole being nearly clone, put in a couple of pale roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an hour, and then serve them with the sauce reduced. Chicke.vs and young Oysters.*—Fill your chickens with young oy.sters cut small, truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, add a little white wine and half a glass of good stock, thicken it over the fire for another quar- ter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce on them, and garnish the dish with oysters and some lemon. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water until nearly done ; then skin it, cutoff the white meat, and pound it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in to a thick paste; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil it up all together for a few minutes. Chickens au Parmesan. — Braise a couple of chickens as usual, and when nearly done, add to them some stock, white wine, cullis, and butter, season according to taste. When sufficiently done, strain some of the sauce into your dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; place the chickens in this, and pour over the remainder of the sauce; grate more Parmesan on, and bake it. Chickens aicx Pavies.—Fry two or three fat chickens trussed quite round, in butter for a minute or two; lay a few slices of lemon on the breasts, wrap each in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them. Cut some pickled nectarines in slices, taking oft’ the skin ; soak them a little while in water, and then warm them in some gravy and cullis mixed to- gether, and serve them with the roasted chickens. Chickens a, la Perle.—Split and bone two chickens, leaving the legs ; fill each piece with a salpiuon made of sweet- breads, mushrooms, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, seasoned with sa.t, and pepper, and roll it up like a pear-shaped pearl, making the leg the point; sew them up, and braise them with veal, bacon, stock, a glass of white wine, two slices of peeled lemon, parsley, half a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, two cloves, pepper, and salt; when done, take out the chickens, skim and strain ( 157 ) C II I the sauce, put a little cullis in._ duce it, and serve it with the f Chicken P/e.—Cut a couple of cUick- ens into pieces, and season eacn pi with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace Line a dish with puft’-paste, and ^ layer of forcemeat on it; then put in tne chickens, with some sweetbreads cut la pieces, and seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms quar- tered, the yolks of hard eggs, chopped, fresh mushrooms, cock’s combs, and as- paragus ; add a little water, cover the pie with puft’-paste, and bake it. When don^ pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold, the truffles, morels, and mushrooms must be omitted. Second way.—Vwt half a dozen small chickens in a dish with puff-paste, as above, with the marrow of two bones rolled in a batter of eggs, a bit of butter rolled in sweet herbs, a dozen hard eggs, and two dozen savory balls; cover and bake as before. Pour in a quart of gravy when done. Chicken Pie ( 5ioeef) .—Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them m pieces, season them with mace, cinn^ mon, and salt, and put them into a dish with the yolks of four hard eggs cut m quarters, five artichoke-bottoms; of sun- raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo- root, marrow, and currants, eight ounces of each ; four slices of lemon (peeled), and fifty balls of forcemeat; cover the whole with rich pufF-paste, and bake. Boil a pint of white wine with the yolks of tvvo eggs ; sweeten and put it to the pie when baked. Serve it quite hot. Chicken and Ham Pie.—Season some slices of boiled ham, and lay them on a puff-paste about half an inch thick; then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs, a few truffles and morels, cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before, put some gravy in, and a puff-crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. If to be eaten hot, more gravy may be ridded when done. Chicken aiid Parsley P/e.—Skin and cut up a chicken, season the pieces with salt; pick and scald some parsley, and when squeezed quite dry, cut it, and lay it in the pie dish ; then the pieces of chicken, parsley and chicken again, un- til the dish is full. Put new milk nearly to the top of the dish, cover and bake it. When done, take out some of the milk, and add in its place a pint of scalded cream. Chickens d la Pierrette.—Take half a dozen erjual sized chicken wings; lard