C AK (96) C A K Cakr Meat.~C\it tlie fillet from ihe inside ol the rump of beef into snnall pieces, also lean veal, and pound tliem very fine in a marble mortar. Tlien add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, chopped paraley, basil, thyme, mushrooms, sa- vory and shalots, but only a small quan- tity of each; some beaten spices, and a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs to bind it. Then add, and mix with your hands, some fat bacon, and lean of ham cut into dice. Then line a stewpan or mould with bards of fat bacon, fill it with the mixture, press it down; put on the top bay-leaves, and alittle rhenish wine, cover it with bards of fat bacon, and bake it tlioroughly in a moderate oven. When it is cold, turn it out of the mould, trim it clean, set it on a dish, put chopped savory jelly round it, and a small mo- delled figure on the top ; or the whole of the cake may be modelled. Cake {Meat)*—'iom cake should be named alter the meat or game you make use of. They are all made alike, except when you make tliem of game, you mix with the game an equal quantity of but- cher’s meat. For a mutton cake, take a leg of mutton, skin, and take off all the meat; mince it with a little beef suet, add to it a pound of bacon cut into dice, the yolks of six eggs, salt and ground apices, half a glass of brandy, some champignons, shalots, parsley and green onions ctiopped fine. Put some thin slices of bacon in a stewpan, and the mutton forcemeat tipon them, vvell mixed and seasoned ; let it stew at least three hours; when done, and cool, turn it out on a dish ; let the slices of bacon which will be found to adhere to tlie mutton, remain; scrape them lightly with a knife, and serve the mutton cake on a napkin placed in a dish. Cakes de Niavjjles.—Make a good putt paste, roll it pretty thick, and cut it into lozenges about the bigness of ihe palm of your hand ; lirusli it over witli yolks of eggs beat up, and strew maca- roni drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange-flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine; stick bits of scalded sweet almonds in tlie paste, pointed upwards, cover them with paoer in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. Cake a Nouille.*—Make some pule a Nouille with the yolks of six eggs ; when it is well mixed, add to it four glasses of boiling cream, in wliicli you liave pre- viously put ciglit ounces ol biittei’. Let it boil for a few minutes, then add six ounces of sugar, liaving tlie zest of an orftngp prftlcil ovpr it \ tli<^ whole well together,and then place it for half an hour over warm ashes, that tlie Nuuilles may swell and become firm: then add tlie yolks of eight eggs, and some salt to give it consistence; then pour it into a buttered mould, and let it bake for two hours in a moderateoven. Cake (A’></w).— Take four pounds of very fine flonr, and mix with it three pounds of double-refined sugar, finely beat and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take four poundsof flutter,beaiit in your hands till it is very soft like cream ; beat thirty-four eggs, leave out sixteen whites and take out the treads from all j beat the eggs and butter together till it ap- pears like butter, pour in four or five spoonfuls of rose, or orange flower-water, and beat it again ; then take your flour and sugar with six ounces of carraway seeds ; strew it in 'by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours to- gether ; put in as much tincture of cin- namon, or ambergris, as you please; liutter your hoop, and let it stand thiee hours in a moderate oven. Cake d la Parisienne.* — Take one pound and a half of finely sifted flour, make a sponge; then add four drachms of tine salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one pound and a quarter of fine butter, and a glass of cream ; mix the wtiole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well together again, after which mould your cake; fini.-h with paper bands, &c. the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it according to your own fancy. Then let it bake fi>r two liours and a half or three hours in a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten cold. Cakes {Pepper).—Take a cill of sack, and a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper, put it in, and boil them together lor a quarter of an hour; tlien strain out the pepper, and put in as much double refined sugar as will make it hkr- a paste ; then drop it in what shape you please, on a tin-plate, and let it dry itself. Cake {Plum). — Three pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quartersofa pound ofalmonils. blanched and beat grossly, about half an ounce of tliem hitler, four ounces ol sugar, seven yolks and six whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, lialf-a-pint of good ale yeast; mix the eggs and the veast tngetlier, strain them; set the cream on tlie fire, melt the butter in it ; stir in the nimniids, and half a pint of sack, part of which should be put to tlie almonds while beating; mix together