DAM ( 215 ) D A R common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix with them ; make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, and put them on the stove to dry ; when they are quite dry, turn them on a sieve, and wet tlie outside of the paper, and they will come off easily; put them into the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into pa- pered boxes. Damson Diimplin^s^ — Make a good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please. Wet the edge of the paste and close it up; boil it in a cloth for an hour; pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and S6rv6» Damson Ice (Cream). — Take three ounces of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint of cream; press them through a sieve, and freeze it. Damson Ice{IVater).—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved damsons and break the stones; put them into a basin, squeeze in one lemon, add nearly a pint of water, and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich. Damson Jelly. — To eight pounds of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins break ; then take them off, and set them by for an hour ; set them on the fire again, for half au hou r more ; set them by again for the same time ; do so the third time ; while they stand off the fire, put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The last time, you must boil them till you perceive they are of a very high colour in the part where the skin is broken; then take them off', set them hy to cool, and when they are cold, drain off the. syrup, and make the jelly in the following manner: —Boil a good quantity of green apples, green gooseberries, and quince cores, to a mash ; then strain them through a hair sieve. Take an equal quantity of this jelly and the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly ; sliim it well, and while it is hot, put it into gla.sses or pots. Damsons to keep.—Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles ; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when they are quite cold, fill up with spring-water, and cover them closely. Damsons (/op-cserw).*—Put a quart of damsons, with half a pound ol loaf Kug.ar powdered fine, into a deep pot. with a layer of damsons; then strew in a handful of sugar, till you have put in what quantity you like; tie them close down ; set them in an oven or in_a pot of water over the fire; let them infuse till they are all melted; let them stand till cold, then drain the juice from them, boil it up well, and strain it till clear ; put it to your damsons, let them stand till cold, put a brandy paper over them, and cover the pot with a wet bladder. Damson Pttdding.—Make a paste, and lay it in a basin ; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve, cut a piece out of the top, mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Damson Pudding.—To a pint of cream or milk, add six eggs, four table-spoons- ful of sifted flour, a little salt, a little pounded cinnamon, and whisk them well together. Then take some ripe or bot- tled damsons, rub them through a hair- sieve, add to the mixture a sufficient quantity of the fine pulp, to make it, in sub.stance, a little thicker than batter; sweeten it according to your taste, put it into a buttered basin, flour a cloth and tie over, let it boil for an hour and a quarter, and when you serve, turn it out of the basin, and pour melted butter all over. Damson Tart. — Make a nice crust, lice your dish, put in thefruit, and finish the same as for any other fruit pie. Damsons IVhole., IVet.—Take some of the largest and best damsons, and prick them at each end, boil some syrup on a brisk fire, in a preserving pan, for a quar- ter of an hour; then put your damsons in, and boil them for twenty minutes; put them in an earthen pan, cover them up with paper, (as they boil, skim them well); the next day strain the syrup from them, and let it have a good boil; then put the damsons into pots, and, when cold, put some apple jelly over them. Damson JVme,—Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Tut them into a stein, with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds of fruit, add a gallon of boiling water. In two d.ays you may draw it oil', and put it ints a vessel, and to every gallon of the liquor, add two pounds and a half of fine sugar. Fillup the vessel, and slop it up close. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two months .after. DARIOLS.*—Put ratlier more than halfa quartern of flour upon a pie-board, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a