RA B Q U I (4-28 and put them, with a gallon of water, and two pounds of honey, into a large saucepan ; mix them together well, and set them on a slow fire for half an hour : strain the liquor into a jar ; when quite cold, wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; cover them very cloee. Quinces (Preserved).*— Chooae the quinces very ripe, yellow, and peifectly sound ; pare, quarter, and core them : put them into a little water, and scald them; as soon as they are soft, throw them into cold water, then put them to drain. Clarify and boil to an equal weight of sugar, put in the fruit, cover, and leave them to simmer for a quarter of an hour ; then take them from the fire, skim, and pour the preserve into a pan. In two days’ time drain off the syrup, boil it to perle, add the fruit, give the whole one boil, (covered); let it cool a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which, leave it till next day; when, proceed as above, but boil the syrup to grand perle. As soon as the preserve is cooled, pour it into pots, add- ing to each a little quince jelly. A little prepared cochineal added to the above, will give the preserve a fine red colour; in which case the jelly ought also to be red. Quinces Preserved in fVhite Jelly.— Take as many quinces as you may re- quire, choose them sound ; pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder-sugar over as you do them, filling up all the holes iilso with sugar ; throw in a small quantity of water, and when all are cut, add more water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses : when cold, drain off the syrup and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quick as you can ; just before the jelly is taken off, put i n a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with, and then pour it in the glasses again, over the quinces, and when cold, cover them. This may also be coloured red by add- ing a small quantity of prepared cochi- neal ; in this case, the jelly should be red too. Quince Pudding.—1'Ake a sufficient number of ripe ouinces to yield a pound of pulp, to which put half a pound of powder-sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, add ihe quince, &c. siir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. Quinces, Halijia. o/.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, three pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows ;—put the spice into the brandy and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie for twenty-four hours to ferment; after that time put them into a close linen cloth, and express the juice by means of a wine-press; add this juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a mouth, then draw it ofi'; dissolve the sugar, filter, and put it to the ratafia. Coriander, or mace, or both, may be added, if approved. Quinces, the Spanish /Pay.—Pare and core ten ponnds of quinces, put them into a slewpan with a pint ana a half of water and two pounds of fine sugar, set them on a slow fire, and when they begin to dry, moisten them with rose-water and sack, or white wine ; then press the paste through a coarse sieve, add two pounds of sugar, a little orange-flower, and rose- water. When sufficiently done, it will come off'clean, if dropped on a plate ; then set it aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, strew perfumed comfits over, and cover them close. Quinces, Syrup of.*—Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth, press out the juice, which put in a very warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- tom ; then strain it well, and for every quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound of sugar; mix them together, and boil the whole to perle ; take it off', and when the syrup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bot- tles well corked. Quince Tarf.—Take some preserved quinces, make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which, and the preserve, take an equal weight, and put it into a preserving-pan ; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; when tolerably clear, lay tlie quinces in a tart-dish with puff- paste as usual; cover and bake it: as .“oon as it is done, raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. R. RABBITS.—The rules for choosing rabbits are the same as for choosing hares; and observe the same rules .as for skinning and trussing hai-es, except, in skinning rabbits, cut off the cars, and if two together are roasted, skewer each head against the shoulder outwards, wfitli four or live skewers through the bodies, to fasten them well to the spit. Rabbits