C HE ( 139 ) CHE are pressed as equally as possible before the figures are eui out, or else, when they cGine to be pressed for the last time, the figures will press unequally, and lose their shapes. Tlie_ cheeses should not be made above t'vo inches thick; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the figures regular. After they are made, they must be fi-equently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coaree cloth. They will be fit to cut in about einhtnionths. Cheese SouffliTs.\ie three ounces of flour and two of butter, put them in a stewpan with one egg, mix them toge- ther with nearly a pint of milk, and set it on the fire till it begins to boil; if too tliickadda little more milk; then break in the yolks of five eggs, and a gill of thick cream; when these are well mixed, stir in gently about two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt; beat the whites of the eggs, with the addition of three, and finish as for souffles. When this light batter is put in paper cases, it is calledau froma^e. Cheese Soup.*—Take a soup dish that will bear the fire, and spread over the bot- tom of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it; cover this with thin slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately, until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these layers with stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bottom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table, add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the potage be rather thick than otherwise. Cheese Soup en maigre, anden gi-as.* —If you wish to make it en maigre, pre- pare some Soup Maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup tl)an of any other vegetable; when it is made and strained through a sieve, season it with a little salt; take the dish in which you mean to serve it. and place it before the fire, then take half, orthree quarters of a pound faccor- ding to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the other half into small slices, put a little of the grated cheese with some small pieces of butter into the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread, then put a layer of the sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese, then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled ; moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing dish until all the soup is absorbed; then dilute it with the rest of your soup, and season with pepper. This cheese, seup should be served rather thick. To make Cheese Soup en gras, instead of making use of soup-maigre, it should be made with very rich cabbage soup, not skim- med, and no butter must be used. Cheese Soup, Gras on Maigre.—Take about half a pound of bread crumbs, sift them in a cullender with about a quarter of a pound of Gruyere cheese, or Parme- san ; simmer this together in a stewpan with some good broth (either Gras or il/(/!g-re), until the bread and cheese are well stewed ; make a liaison in another pan, with the yolks of three or four eggs, and the same number of spoonsful of broth ; when ready to serve, mix this last with the first, without boiling. This soup must not be very clear nor thick ; it must be made with broth vyithout salt, as the cheese may salt it sufticientiy. Cheese Stewed.—Cut small into a stewpan,Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, a quarter of a pound of each ; then add a gill of Lisbon wine, a table spoonful of water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the cheese is dissolved; then have ready a cheese-plate, with a lighted lamp be- neath, put the mixture in, and serve it up directly. Send with it some fresh toasted bread in a toast-rack. Cheese Stilton.— Take the night’s cream, and put it into the morning’s new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is produced it must not be broken as is done with other cheeses, but take it out with a soil dish altogether, and place it in the sieve to drain gradually, and as it drains, keep gradually pressing it tilt it becomes firm and dry ; then place it in a wooden hoop, and afteiwards keep it dry on boards, turning it frequently, with cloth binders round it, which are to be tight- ened as occasion requires. In some dairies the cheese, after being taken out of the hoop, is bound tight round with a cloth, this cloth should be changed daily, until the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; after the cloth is taken off; it must be rubbed every day all over, for two or three months, with a brush, and if the weather is damp or moist, twice ^ d^y ) ttnd even before the cloth is taken off, the top and bottom must be well rubbed every day. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass; spread it on fresh-made thin toast, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese ujion them. Cheese Toasferf, or an English Rabbit. —Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut