17 APP AP P a knife and throw them into cold water ; then put them into a pan with some da- rifled sugar, and stew them gently till tender; place the apples in a dish, and pour the syrup through a sieve over them. ArPF.ES, (Compote of). —Pare and cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon-juice; then clarify half a pound of sugai-, and when you have skimmed it put in your apples, and tlie juice of a lemon ; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out ; strain and reduce the syrup ; strain it again, and ihen pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices, and laid on the apples. Apples, fVhole.*—The pi'oceeding is the same as the last, except that the apples, when pared, are not divided, and the cores are taken out with a piercer. Apples, Stuffed with Apricots.*— Choose ten fine sound apples, and with an apple-scoop pierce out tlie cores and great part of the pulp, taking care that the apples preserve their firmness ; then pare and tlirow them into cold water, after which boil them as above directed ; when soft take out the apples carefully, arrange them in the compotier, and fill each with apricot marmalade, covering the holes with round pieces of lemon- peel, cut extremely thin ; in the mean while clarify and boil the syrup \.opetit lisse, and when it has cooled a little pour it over the apples. Apples, (Croquettes of).*—Prepare your apples for Appte Cake, divide it into small pieces, roll them into balls, and dip them into an omelet; cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them ; as soon as they are of a good colour take them out, sprinklesugar over, and serve them immediately. Apples e>i Croustade.*—Form some croFFsWe (raised crust) in a basket seven inches in diameter and thi'ee in height; line the basket with buttei’ed papei', and fill it with flour of beef suet chopped; then ornament it, gild it, and let it bake to a nice light colour ; when it is baked take out the flour or suet and the papei', and half fill the basket with apple mar- malade, (thirty apples made into mar- malade, the same as in the receipt for Apples Meringuies in form of a Hedge- hog). Then peel, take out the cores, and turn eight apples ; boil them quite white, and then fill up the place of the core with apricot marmalade, and put them in the marmalade on your basket, placing one in the centre of the basket, and the other seven round it; filling up the spaces between with more apple marmalade, arnanging it in such a way that your apples are half encrusted in the marmalade; place upon the top of each apple a fine cherry, then mask your entremet with apple jelly, which gives itabeautjful transparent appear- ance. Serve this enti'emet either hot or cold, and garnish with apricot marma- lade. Apple Custard, loith butter and ce- drat.*—Pare and cut a dozen fine apples into quarters ; put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, upon which you have grated the zeste of a cedrat. Half boil the apples, and then let them cool. In the mean time roll out some pufl-paste and cut it round, (about eleven inches in diameter,) turn up the edges two inches and put it on a baking-tin ; pinch upon ; decorate this lightly, and place in it the apples, arranging those quarters which are most done in the form of a crown ; then pour in the butter and sugar, in which your apples were done ; take the remaining quarters and place them care- fully on the crown, so as to make a se- cond on that. Fix a strong paper, well buttered, round your custard, and put in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour; then remove the paper, (^ores the crust lightly, and let it remain in the oven a few minutes longer. Sift the sugar over the crust, and glaze it. When it should be sent to table, mask it with apple, curi-ant or apricot marmalade. Serve it hot. Apple Custard ct la Portugaise.*— Take thirty fine apples, and pierce out the cores of ten of them which are of an equal size; pai-e and trim them neatly, and boil them in six ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut tlie remaining apples very small, and put tliein into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them ; stir the whole con- stantly to prevent their sticking to the pan ; when sufficiently done rub the marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Prepare the crust as before mentioned, but dress the aides a little higher ; mix two spoonsful of apricot marmalade witli that of your apples, and then put four spoonsful of it into the custard ; place the whole apples, (having put apricot marmalade in the ^ilace of the cores,) and then add the remainder of the apple mar- malade, taking care not to cover the apples with it. Finish as above. At the instant of serving it mask it with apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade C 3