CAB C A K (92) Cabbage Soap.—Boil aome rashera of streaked" bacon about two hours, in the quantity of water you require for soup; tlien add some cabbages previously blanched, and if you like, some sausages ; pepper and salt the soup, but take care to put very little salt,on account of the bacon. Skim well before^ you put in the cab- bages. This receipt is the same in most of the French cookery books, except that some tell you, that when the cabbage and bacon are done, you should soak a few slices of bread in some of the broth, and then mix them with the whole soup. Cabbaoe Soup, with Carrots and Ouiotis.*—Line a stewpan with bards of bacon, then blanch a cabbage in boiling water, let it drain, then cut it into quar- ters, and put it into the stewpan, with some carrots and onions cut in slices, moisten with soup meagre ; when suffi- ciently done, dress it on a dish, and serve. Cabbage ( Germaai) Soup.—Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cab- bage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender, and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy, in equal quantities; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour, throw in little round and thin pieces of bread ; season to your taste, and serve. Cabbage Stewed.—Cut a cabbage into slips, blanch and drain them dry, and stew them in a stewpan, with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, salt, an onion, some vinegar, half a pint of veal broth, and a little allspice, tied in a cloth, till done, and the liquor nearly reduced, and then take the spice and onion out, and serve it- Cabbage Stewed.*—Blanch two mid- dling sized cabbages in water with a little salt; when they have been tiventy minutes in the boiling water, take them out and put them into cold water, then let them drain; after tliis take out their hearts; then cut very small half a pound of veal, and half a pound of bacon: some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all well pounded; then add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, and mi.x the whale well together, with the veal and bacon; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages, (in the place of the hearts), and tie them up wiLli packthread. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, and slices of veal, a little ham, three carrof, four onions, a little thyme, H bay leaf, and two cloves ; then put in the cabbages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, .adding a little Sirit .and pepper ; let the whole sim- mer for an hour and a half, then let them drain on a napkin, and extract the gravy from them by gently pressing them; then untie and arrange them on a d’lsh; glaze them, and serve a Spanish I sauce all over them. If you do not liap- I pen to have any Spanish eauce ready, I make a light and moisten it with i the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed, and strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. _ Cabbage Stewed a VEspagnole.—Take six cabbages and boil them well", when done, drain them on a sieve, tie each separately with packthread, and lay them between bards of fat bacon with some good braise, to stew very gently; take j them out of the braise, and lay them in i a line upon a clean cloth; cut off the j packthread, and roll the cabbages tight | up in the cloth for a minute or two; then I open the cloth and cut the cabbages in || pieces, about six inches in length, and lay | them on the dish ; have a sauce d I’Es- pagnole ready, with a bit of butter mixed in it, and one squeeze of lemon ; this sauce when very hot pour over the cab- bages, and serve it to table. Cabbage stewea in this way is very good, and I prop6r to gsrnisli stewed beef of sny Kind) sometimes with other vegetables inter- mixed. I Cabbage Stuffed.—Blanch a large Sa- ( voy cabbage, and then put between its t leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold S meat you have in the house, adding an i( equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, ij salt, chopped parsley, ana a small hand- if ful of boiled rice. When you have put into the cabbage as much stuffing as it will contain, tie it well up with pack- thread. Next, make a rmtx with some butter, flour, and stock, properly season- ed ; heat up the cabbage in this roux, being careful that it does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may be always covered. When it is perfectly done, serve it in a j deep dish in its soup. Cabbage en Surprise.*—Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a j quarter of an hour, put it into cold water, 1 and squeeze it. taking care not to break the leaves: then carefully take out the 1 heart, and supply the place with parboil- ed chesnuts and saus.ages, replacing the Ie.aves in such a manner .as to conceal what is within; tie the c.ibbage with pack- | tiiread, and stew it with some stock, s ^ little sail, and coarse pepper, rwts, I onions, and a bunch of herbs. When I done, drain, and serve with a good butter i sauce. CAKE. — Prepare ^ your ingredients the rame as described m ‘ the receipt for Cake, d la Parish-iue ;