EEL EEL 224 about two or three inches long, and take out the back-bone for use ; make a farce with some of the meat cot into small dice, with mushrooms and carp rocs (if any) a little butter, chopped parsley, shalots. pepper and salt. Make likewise, a fine farce with some of the meat and bread- crumbs soaked in cream, parsley, mush- rooms chopped fine, pepper and salt, mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs ; cut pieces of crumb of bread to the same length as the pieces of bone, and about two inches vvide; laysome of the last farce upon each piece, then the back- iMjne and some of the forced-meat upon it: then some of the fine farce again, laid smoothly over with a knife dipped in eggs ; strew it with crumbs and small bits of butter ; bake it in a moderate oven or under a brazing-pan cover, and serve with any sauce you may like best. Eels to Choose.—The 'J'hames silver eel is generally esteemed the best, and tlje worst are brought by the Dutch and sold at Billingsgate; there is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than in any other fish. They should be dressed as fresh as possible, and are in season all the year, excepting during the very hot summer months. Eels Co//are</.*—Take an eel, and cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut off the head and tail; lay the eel flat, and shred sage as fine as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up liard in a cloth; tie it up tight at each end ; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, a bay-leaf or two; boil these with the bones, head, and tail, well; then put in the eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take it out, and boil the liq^uor, and when it is cold, put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use them. Eels, Entrie of. — Take some ^ood fuzed eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length ; pass them over a slow fire, in a small quantity trf sweet herbs, shalots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon-juice. Vvhen they are three parts done, put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor; bread crumb, and boil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. Eels, Entree of. — Take two large eels, bone, and lay them fiat; put some light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon each; roll them up sepaiately; bind them round with tape ; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Madeir.a, one clove, garlic, half a bay-leaf, four peeled ebalots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal- broth. Let them stew till done, then strain the liquor; skim it free from fat; season to the palate ; thicken with flour and water; reduce it to half a pint: put the eels into a deep dish, glaze the tops, and serve them up with the sauce under, and pieces of fried bread round the dish. Forcemeat of.— Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, then put them into cold water; broil a perch ; when it is nearly done, lay it to cool j take the meat from the bones of both hsl), and mince it, and add to them the liver of a cod, minced also; then season them with pepper and salt; add sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, some small onions, minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter ; put the whole into a mortar, and beat it to a paste; it is used for fish-pies, and adds a fine relish to all made-dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. Eel, d la Four. • — Having skinned and cleaned an eel, cut olf the head; fasten the two ends together with a skewer, so as to form a hoop, and lay it in a baking dish; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, with carrots and onions, sliced, parsley', bay-leal, and thyme ; do these up together, and then add white wine, pepper and salt; when they have boiled about half an hour, strain it through a fine sieve; take the eel, and put it in the oven; in three quarters of an hour take it out. and place it in your dish. Serve with Sauce Itatienne. Eels Fricasseed. —Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut each of them into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake them about for a few minutes; then put in aliout a pint of white wine, and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stesv all together, about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, beat smooth, a little grated nutmi'g, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; give the whole a good shake; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish mth lemon. Eels as Chicken Fricassee.—Skin one or two eels, according to their .<ize ; cut them into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some mush- rooms, a fagot of sweet herbs, and two cloves ; let the whole simmer some time,