A L M ( I ) A L M a plieet of paper on a sieve, throw your p.lmoiuls on it, separate those which au- here together, ami let tiiciii cool. Almond Custavds.—Blnnch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with aspoon- ful of water; bent a pintof cream with two spoonsful of rose-water, and put to them the volKs of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet, then add tlie almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. Another way.—MA to a pint and a half of cream a small stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon peel, some nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; boil them tngetherten minutes, and strain it; then blanch and pound three ounces of Jordan and eight single bitter almonds ; after which rub through a hair sieve,add the fine pulp to the cream, likewise a little syrup of roses and the yolks of six eggs beaten up, and put the mixture into small cups ; or it may be baked in a dish with a rim of puli'paste round it. Almonos {Devilled).—Blanch half a pound of jordan almonds, and wipe them dry; then put into a frying-pan two ounces of fresh butter, make it hot, add the almonds, try them gently till of a good brown colour, drain them on a hair sieve, strew over cayenne pepper and salt, and serve them up hot. Almond Draqies.—Take of the best and largest almonds what quantity you please, and having washed tliem in pid water, let them drain and dry on a sieve for twenty-four hours. The next day weigh them, and for each pound of al- monds take three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and boil it to the degree petit lissd ; then letit cool a little. Have your tossing pan ready; on your right hand, a chafing dish to keep your pan containing the syrup constantly warm ; and on your left hand, a table with a mixture of pow- der and fl.aur (of each lialf a pound to a pound of almonds). All being ready, put the almonds into tlie pan, and pour over them one or two large spoonsful of tlie syrup, and shake them so that all the al- monds may be welted with syrup; then take a handful or two of the. flour and powder, and strew it over the wet al- monds; shake tliem again, tint the flour may adhere all round the almonds. Af- ter, this swing the pan backwards and forwards, by whicli means the almonds roll about in every direction; continue this motion until they bcconae dry; tlien moisten and powder them as before; swing the pan again, and when dry, re- peat tlie process a tliird, fourih, and fiftli time, or more, until they are of a proper size; then pour over them the syrup for the last time, without the powder, and, having swung and dried them, take tliem out and place them on sieves in a warm place, tliat they may dry perfectly belore you put them by for use. Observe, that after a fevr layers of the syrup, the siiperabund.ant parts of that and the powder form a white crust at the bottom of the pan ; as soon as it ac- quires any degree of thickness, the pan must be taken from the fire, the almonds carefully removed with an iron spatula, and the crust broken off; when the pan lias been well washed and dried, replace the almonds and proceed with your work. I'liis mustbe strictly attended to, notonly with this,but in makingallkindsof sweet- meats. The sugar thus cleared away may be made useful for many purposes. Common Almond Dragees are made in the same manner; tlie only difference consists in having ingredients of an in fei ior quality. Almonds, English Fashion.—Mix al- monds and filberts scalded in equal quan- tities ; chop one half very fine, cut the rest each into two or three slices; pu: the whole in double their weight of sugar, prepared d la grande plume, with some lemon peel rasped; stir the almonds very well in the sugar, taking it oft' the fire, and add one or two whites of eggs; pour it in paper large enough to contain the whole, and cut it in slices for use as you think proper, when baked as usual. Almonds {Milk of) Fanchonnetles.*— Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and when tlie paste is very fine, .add to it three glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press this mixture through a napkin to draw out tlie milk. Put into astewpan four yolks of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one of sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix them well together, and add by de- grees the almond milk, put this on a moderatefire,stirringitconstaiitly. Line about thirty tartlet moulds witli tliin puli' paste, and put on them a little of the above preparation, and bake them in a moderate oven. When properly done, take them out and let them cool. Mix with the whites of three hard eggs, four ounces ol powder-sugar, stir it well to soften the egg, and make it work easily ; put some of the remainder of your pre- paration on each of the fanchomieltes, and cover them lightly with the egg ; pin. some white of egg on the blade of a large knife, and with a small one as quick .as possible take off seveu mermgues about the size of a filbert, and arrange them in tlie form of a crown on each fanchonnetle; wlien yoH have done five or six, cover