K I S LAM ( 299 ) ; take out tlie pulp and juice of tlie cjier- ! rie8 immediately under it, and put them into the cucurbite (but not enoimh to I fill it), and distil them. The fire, during I the operation, should be managed with ’ great care, and increased gradually till I the produce of your distillation flows in a small stream, and cease the instant i the plilegm begins to appear; then i throw away the dregs from the cucurbite, I and put more cherries in, and distil as ! before. . Kirschen IVasser. _— Bruise the i kernels of some cherries, and throw I them, with their shells, into brandy ; let I them infuse till the season when you can I add some apricot kernels, without the ! shells, then leaving them to infuse for I two months longer, you must filter off I the infusion, then distil it, by which I means it will become as clear as the real i kirsnhen-wasscr Black Forest. Kirschen JVasser Creme.* — Take I three quarts of old kirschen-wasser, rec- I tify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liqueur, to which add four ounces of double orange flower water; dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in three pints of distilled river water, over the fire ; wdien cold, mix it with the kirschen-w.isser, filter and bottle it. KISSES.*—Put the whites of eight egge, and two spoonsful of orange flower water, into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth, then add half a pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great care by means of a spatula: that done, lay small pieces of this mixture on i white paper; make each drop about the I size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; I place the paper which contains them on I a piece of wood about an inch thick, and i put them in a very hot oven ; watch ’ them, and as soon as you perceive they 1 begin to look yellowish, take them out, I and detach them from the paper with I a knife as cautiously as possible, for they ! are very tender. Take a small spoon, 1 and with the end of it remove the moist t part, which is at the bottom, so as to make them a little hollow, and as you I do them, lay each on the paper, the hol- 1 low side upwards; put them on the wood into the oven again for a few minutes to ‘ dry; when done, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If thejr are for table, fill the hollow of > e.ach with a little whipped cream or rasp- berry jam ; put them together by couples, ' the cream or jam inside ; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as pos- sible. L. LAMB lo Choose.—The vein In the neck of a fore-quarter of lamb ought to be of a fine blue, it is then fresh ; if it is of a green or yellow cast, it is stale ; if in the hind-quarter, there is a faint disagreeable smell under the kidney, or if the knuckle is limp, it is' not good; if the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh; grass lamb is in season in April or May, and con- tinues good till August. House Lamb may be had in great towns generally all the year round, but is in its highest per- fection in December and January. Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and breast. Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. The Head', the pluck is generally sold with the head, which contains the liver, lights, heart, nut, and melt. The Fry contains the sweetbreads, lambstones, and skirts, with some of the liver. LtMe Baked with lUce.— UeH roast either a neck or loin of lamb, then cut it into steaks ; boil half a pound of rice in water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg, and two or three blades of mace ; stew it over a alow fire or stove till the rice be- gins to thicken ; then take it off, stir in a pound of butter, and when quite melt- ed, add the yolks of six eggs finely beaten ; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the but- tered dish; pour upon them the gravy which comes from them, and then the rice; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, send it to the oven, rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Lamb Blanquette of.*—Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness, cut off the angles so as to make them nearly round, beat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladiesful of veloute travaille, and a little pepper ; set the saucepan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs; make it quite hot, and serve the blan- quette with sippets. Lamb’s Brains. * — Are generally reckoned more delicate than those of the sheep: they arc mostly prepared in ti c same manner as cab’s brains. Lasib’s Bruins en Mayonnaise.*—Taka eight lamb’s brains, and having washed