M U T ( 341 ) MOT I. an d about a dozen pieces of bread, all : the same size and shape ; squeeze a little i; lemon-juice over, and serve. Mushrooms {fVhile), Puree_ of.*— I Choose your mushrooms very white, cut •I off the e.srthy end of the stalk and wash I them. Put a little water into a stewpan II with the juice of a lemon, fry the mush- I rooms lightly in this ; then drain and i| mince them very small; put them into a cloth, press tliem very tight. Take a ’ piece of butter, and put it in a saucepan with asqueeze of lemon and the chopped ^ mushrooms; set them on the fire, and f when the butter is oiled, add six ladlesful ; of veloutc, and as much consomme : re- l! duce this till yowvpuree is pretty thick; !i season with whole pepper. ; Mushroom (fVhite) Sauce. — Have ii ready some cream sauce, rather thinner n than usual; to this put a few small white c mushrooms ; reduce it to the proper con- P sistence; it is then ready for use. MUSK, to prepare for Liqueurs.*— ' Take two grains of musk and a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them in a B mortar and mix them well; keep it in i a closely stopped bottle. The quantity P required of this is one pinch to four or ii five quarts of liqueur. j Ambergris is prepared in a similar i[ manner, but being less powerful than I the musk, four grains is the proportion I to a quarter of a pound of sugar. ! MUSTARD, fo —Take some of the best Durham flour of mustard and mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it extremely smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days; the mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. Mustard, to Make.*—Take a few spoonsful of the flour of mustard, and carefully mix it with a little warm water, until it is of the consistence of honey ; be particular that it is mixed perfectly smooth. Mustard, to Make, for immediate XJse.* —Take some mustard, and, by degrees, mix it quite smooth with new milk, ad- ding a little cream. Mixed in this man- ner it will keep ; it is very soft, and not I in the least bitter. Mustard Sauce.*—Put two glasses of 1 stock, shalots shred small, salt and pep- ! per, into a saucepan ; let them boil lor half an hour, then add a spoonful of I mustard ; stir it in well, and use jt when I required. MUTTON (Observations o?r).—.The I pipe that runs along the bone of the in- I side of a chine of mutton ought tube I taken away ( and if it is to be kept any length of time, the part close round the tail should be rubbed with sal t, previously cutting Out the kernel. It is beat for the butcher to take out the kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg, as that is the part tnost likely to become tainted. The chine and rib- bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; therefore, if it is to be kept, it is best, should the weather be hot, to rub it with a little salt. When intended for roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind quarter particularly ; but not so long as to become tainted. Mutton for boiling ought not to hang long, as it will prevent its looking of a good colour. The greatest care .should be taken to preserve, by paper, the fat of what is roasted. Mutton, a Basque of.—Put the caul of a leg of veal into a copper dish the size of a small punch-bowl. Chop the lean part of a leg of mutton extremely small; take half its weight of beef marrow, the crumb of a penny-loaf, the rind of half a lemon, grated, half a pint of red wine, two an- chovies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all together with the mutton, and fasten it in the caul in the middle of tiie dish ; Bake it in a quick oven, and when done, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out. Pour over it a brown gravy garnish with pickles, and serve with sweet sauce. Mutton, Boiled, Turkish Fashion.— Cut the meat in slices, wash it in vine- gar, put it in a saucepan with whole pep- per, rice, and two or three onions; stew these very slowly, and skim very often ; when it is tender, take out the onions, and put sippets in the dish under the meat. Mutton, Boulettes of, fried.*—Mince some cold roasted mutton very small ; take a fourth of its weight in sausage- meat, some crumb of bread soaked in milk, boiled potatoes, sweet herbs, shred small, salt and pepper; mix these toge- ther with the yolks of two or three eggs. Roll this farce into as many balls as you think proper, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them. Serve with sauce piquunte. Mutton, Breast of. Broiled.*—BoW the mutton, and afterwards broil it, hav- ing first strewed it over with shred par- sley and young onions, some salt, pep- per. and grated bread-crumb^!. Mutton (Breast of) en Carbonade.*— Take out the brisket bones, and cut a 2G3