LAM ( 305 ) lam brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. LAMB (RagotU o/).—Cut the knuckle bone oft' a fore quarter of lamb, lard it with little thin pieces of bacon; flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three_ cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it close, and let it stew pretty fast for h.alf an hour. Pour oft' all the liquor, strain it; keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry them brown, drain off clear all the fat that they were fried in, and skim oft all the fat from the gravy. Then pour it to the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoon sful of either red or white wine. Boil all together till it is reduced to just sufficient for sauce ; add some fresh mushrooms, and some pickled, and the juice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with lemon. La JIB, to Roast or Boil.—r A quarter of an hour is generally allowed to each pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five pounds will therefore take an hour and a quarter to roast or boil, the other joints in the same proportion; serve either with sa- lad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, French beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. Lamb S«Mee.—Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley and sha- lots, and boil it in a little stock and white wine, (equal quantities), a few minutes are sufficient; squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. Lajib {Shoulders of) and Cucumbers.* —Bone the shoulders to the knuckle, lard the inner part with bacon rolled in I>epper, salt, and spices; tie them up in rather a long form, and braise them the same as d la Polonnoise; drain them when done, untie and glaze them ; pre- pare_ some cucumbers d la creme., on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, toraata sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. Lajib {Shoulders of) a la Dauphine.— Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle. Make a farce with truffles or mush- rooms, fat livers, parsley, shalots, (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoulder, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Serve it on stewed spinach. Lamb {Slices of) Fried.—Cut some cold lamb into slices, season and fry them; when done, put them in a ^|sh, and pour over them melted butter ; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock, and a little walnut pickle; let this boil, and keep stirring. Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, ana garnish with fried parsley. Lamb Steaks Fried.—them of the nicest brown ; when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you may season them and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to taste. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of {Brown).— Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg or flour, fry them; thicken some gravy with flour, mushroom powder, salt, grat- ed nutmeg, white pepper, grated lemon- peel ; boil this up, put in the lamb’s stones, heat them through; add force- meat balls fried, and pickled mushrooms, or lemon-juice. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of, {fVhite). —Skin them, and stew them in some veal gravy; when they are nearly done, add to them a little cream, some stewed forcemeat balls, morels, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; just before they are taken up, add a few pickled mush- rooms. Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads Fri- casseed.—Have ready some lamb’s stones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Then take two or three sweetbreads, flour them, and if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together with a few oys- ters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off', and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus tops, about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, a couple of shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer for ten minutes; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a good thickness, without boiling. Garnish with lemon. Lamb Sweetbreads. * — These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads; the following, how- ever, is rather belonging to those of lamb; butter a saucepan, put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of jelly; cover them with a buttered paper; put fire above and below; stew them thus for half an hour, then serve them with a pttree of fowls, or endive, or any other sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Sweetbreads.— Blanch your sweetbreads, and put them a little time into cold water. Then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, salt, a small bunch of young 2 D 3