( 480 ) VAN T U K but it does not require to,neither mustit be, one twentieth part so thick •, set it over a brisk fire, and continue slirniig till it boils; when it has boiled two liours, beiiiit skimmed all the while, squeeze it through the tammy into another large Ftewpan, put it on the fire, and stir it as before, till it boils; vvhen it has boiled gently for one hour, put in the callipee and callipash, with the gnt, hearts, and some of the best of the meat and head, all cut in squares, with the forcemeat balls and herbs, which you should iiave ready chopped and stewed in 6spagnole; (the herbs are parsley, lemon-thyme, marjorum, basil, savory, and a few drop- ped mushrooms). It must be carefully attended to and skimmed, and one hour and a half before dinner, put in a bottle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a bottle of brandy, keeping it cunlinually boiling gently, and skimming it; then take a basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, with the juice of six lemons squeezed through a sieve. When the drnner is wanted, skim the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little, salt, if necessary ; then stir in the cayenne and lemon-juice, and ladle it into the tureen. This receipt will answer for a turtle between fifty and sixty pounds. This method of dressing turtle, is ac- cording to the directions of Mr. Rey- nolds. Turtle {Mock) Soup.* — Take six pounds of beef-steaks, two pounds of veal cuttings,and some fowl trimmings; put them into a large saucepan, with equal quantities of consomme and veal blo7ul, two carrots, and an onion stuck with two cloves. 8et it on the fire, and when it is reduced to consomme, strain it through a cloth. Put into another saucepan half a calf’s head, well washed, and scalded, and cut into pieces about the size of a half crown, add the coitsomme, and a bottle of Madeira wine, tie a tew allspice and a little mace in a cloth, and put in ; set it on the fire, in ahmit three hours time add thirty whole champignons, two throat sweetbread.-, cut in pieces like the head, fifp'en cocks’-combs, thirty kidnies and thirty fowl quenelles. When the whole is sufficiently done, skim off all the fat from the soup, which should be clear and of a_ deep colour. Put two poached eggs into a soup tureen, on which pour the soup and serve. Turtle Soup {Mock).*— Take four cnll’s-fcet, break the. bones, and stew tliem in as much water as will cover them ; take them out when all the meat and gristle will part from the bones; then put the meat into the liquor again, with lialf a pint of beef gravy, half a pint ofwhite,or port wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, a little mace, .Tamaica pepper, and Cayenne ditto; tie these all up in a muslin bag; when boiled enough, add the yolks of eight eggs boiled hard, truffles, morels, and force-meat balls. 'I'he juice of lemons or oranges improve it. Turtle Soup {Mock).—Take a white call’s head, with the hair well scalded off"; split it in two, and bo>l it in plenty of water till very tender : then take all the meat from the bones, with the white skin, and cut it in squares like the turtle meat. Make a thickening the same as for turtle, which mix with good strong espagnole ; boil it in the same manner, and put in the herbs, forcemeat, wine,&c. in short finish it the same as.the receipt for turtle. U. UD D E R—( See Tongues). UMBLES—(See Deer). V. VANILLA Cream.*—Take two drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and a pint of cream; beat up the eggs well with the milk, and then add the other ingredient-; set the whole on a moderate fire,and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, till the cream will adhere to it; tfien strain, and serve it cold. Vanilla Cream, Renversee.*—Take as much cream as will fill the mould you intend to use, and boil it up a few times, with the proportionate quantities of va- nilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if the mould will contain a quart, mix twelve yolks and three whole eggs with the cream,and run it five times through a bolting cloth. lJutter the mould, pour the cream into it, and place it in the baiti marie, hut not too hot; when the cream is set, which you may know by touching it gently with yourfinger, turn it on a dish; take the remainder of tlie cream, stir it over the fire like white .-auce, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon (which must be of wood), take it off', stir it an instant, and then pour it over the other cream, and serve cold. Vanilla Cream ll'liipp d.’ —Put a pinch of gunuiragon intoa pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, pnwder-sugAr to the taste, and a little milk, in which some vanilla litis been boiled, and the mi;k strained; whip these ingredients with a whisk, un-