PEA 385 PEA ihalf ful) of jelly, and when set, put in the peaches and a little more jelly, and ( when tl’.at is set, fill up the mould. The Srea.'on why the lemons are peeled bef >re theyare squeezed for tliis jelly is, that the oil in the rind would rather spoil I the flavour of the jelly, than be any ad- I dition. Peach Marmalade.*—Choose the fine-it ( peaches, but they must not he too ripe ; I peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a China basin ; clarify a suffi- ! cient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit ■ to float in the syrup ; Itoil this sugar to I lisse; let it cool a little, then pour it I over your fruit, and leave it; the next day I drain away the syrup, and boih it twelve I or fifteen times; then pour it again over the fruit; repeat this process every ", twenty-four hours for six days: each i time adding a little sugar, and boiling it longer, until at the last it reaches the I degree perle, then add the fruit, - and boil them together a few minutes; as soon as they have boiled up three or four times, take the whole off the fire and put it into glass or China jars. During the six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the su rface of the syrup, topreventthe fruit from rising above the syrup, and keep it all equally moist. Plums are done exactly in the same way. Peaches tvii/i Pistachios.! Gimblettes of.*—Take some pufl-paste, give it four turns, and roll it out into two thin layers, each thirteen inches square, one of which place on a baking-tin (previously moist- ened), spread over this a pot of peach marmalade, cover it with the other layer, and then cut it with a circular paste- cutter of two inches diameter, take out the mid,dle with a cutter of one inch diameter. Beat up half the white of an egg and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and wash the over with it; in the remaining glaze add the other half white of egg, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of pistachios; when these arc completely covered with the glaze, stick them on the Gimblettes, en cimronne; when baked, replace them it, the oven to dry a minute or two, and serve either hot or cold. Peaches in a Timbale.—These are done the same as Peaches in a Compote, only that a small quantity of isinglass should he mixed in to turn them into a gentle j-lly ; serve them in a timbale. Peach Put a layer of tart paste on a flat di-h, moisten the edge, round which put a band of paste about an inch and a half wide ; put a piece of but- tered paper and a cover of common paste on, which prick in several places, dorez the band, bake, and glaze it; when done, take out the paper and paste, and put in their place a compote of peaches ; reduce the syrup, and the moment be- fore it is sent to t.nble, glaze the fruit with it. Peaches, l^ol-mi-vent of.*—Take three quarters of a pound of pufl-paste (of six turns), roll it out into a round piece of seven inches in diameter, put this on a very thin layer of fine paste; dorez the top, and with the point of a knife mark it within a proper distance from the edge, about a quarter of an inch deep. Put it in a brisk oven, and when sufficiently baked, take out the middle, dry it a mi- nute or two, sprinkle it all over with powder-sugar, and glaze it. Take twelve ripe peaches, as near of a size as possi- ble, cut them in halves, and boil them in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; when done, drain, pare, and place those which are least coloured, en couronne, at the bottom of the vol-au vent, arrange the remainder over, with the kernels intro- duced here and there ; reduce the syrup, and just before the dish is sent to table, pour it over the fruit. PEARS Baked.—Take half a dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and lake out the cores j put them into a pan with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated lemon-peel,and more sugar if necessary. They will be suffi- ciently red. Pears in Brandy.*—Take some beurre pears, not too ripej put them into a sauce- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, set them on the fire, and let them simmer, but not boil, until the pears will yield to the pressure of your finger; then change them into cold water; pare them with the greatest cape, so that not a single spot may remain; prick, and put them again on the fi.e in fresh water and the juice of a lemon ; let them boil very fast. As soon as the pears are soft enough for the head of a pm to penetrate them easily, take them out carefully with a skimmer, ard lay them m cold water. In the mean lime, having boiled your sugar to liss6, pour the boilmg_syrup on the pears, (pre- viously dpauied from the wpter), and leave thein, ^ The next day drain oil' tlic syrup, boil it to la nappe, then put in the pears, give them a lioil also; pro- ceed in the same manner on the third day, after which, drain the fruit, and put It into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few more limes, let it cool, and then pour on