GOO each cut into four or six pieces; roll some gudiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay tliem on tlie above- mentioned articles, so as to form ailattisli dome; cover it with tlie IikIu paste, press the edges together, moisten ilie top, and lay an ornamental cover of puH'- paste over. GOOSE, Boiled.—Take a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; let it lie in this all night; then take It out, dry it well with a cloth ; cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage; put them into the goose, sew it up at tlie neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till tiie next day ; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it close, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. Another method of boiling a goose, is by laying it in salt for a week ; then boil it for an hour. Serve with onion sauce, or cabbage boiled or stewed in batter. Goose en Dauhe.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, lard it with lardoiis seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices; lay slices of bacon in a braizing-pan, the goose on them, with four carrots, four onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a knuckle of veal, cut in pi eces ; and cover the whole with slices of bacon ; add a little salt, and three ladiesful of broth ; let it simmer for two hours or more, according to the age of the bird. When done, take it out, and drain it; strain the liquor and reiluce it to half; and having cleared oft'the fat and glazed the goose, pour the sauce over it. Gar- nish your dish with onions, cabbages, or turnips, glazed, and a tomata sauce. Goose en Dauhe.*—This dish is sel- dom prepared but with an old goose; which, when singed and trussed, is lard- ed with bacon seasoned with parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; do up some roasted ches- nuts with some butter and a little sugar: stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan with slices of bacon under and over it, moisten it with broth or water and white wine ; put in also a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces; four carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves) a parsnip, a banquet garni, salt, pepper, and spices. Let it stand over a small fire three or four hours; then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and reduce it, so that when cold it mav be quite a jelly, which clarify with 'the white of an egg, and dish the goose with thisjelly over and round it. Goose, Gravy o/.*—Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beef-steaks, a ( 268 ) GOO goose, and a duck, cut up; pour over tiicse, two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tight as possible. I.et it stand over a gentle fire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top; add a little pepper and .'alt, close the vessel again, and set it on hot ashes for an hour; at the end of that time, have ready some .'tone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over them a part of the liquor from them, through a sieve, and as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the re- mainder. If you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months, cover them with their own dripping, an inch in thickness. Goose (Green) Pie.—Bone two young gi-een geese of a good size ; carefully pre- pared and nicely singed. Wash them clean, and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice; put one in- side the other; pressing them as closely together as possible, drawing the legs inwards. Put plenty of butter over them, and bake them, either with or without crust, as you please; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. Goose (Green) Boasted.—After a green goose has been well trussed and singed, put into the inside a good bit of butter, mixed w'ith pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with but- ter. When done, shake over it some flour and salt, when ready, take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat; it will take three quarters of an hour to roast. Goose {Legs and fFings of) a. la Bay- onne.*—Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think proper; bone them, and when cold, rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan with bay- leaves, thyme, and sage, between each layer; cover the pan close, and let them lay thus twenty-four hour,'; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire, in their own fat. When sufticiently done, take them out, hut keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are quite cold, place them closely in a jar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do nut tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. Goose (Legs and ffings oj) a la Bayonne.*— Take the legs and wings from five geese ; bone the latter with your hand, and rub them and the wings with salt, pounded and mixed with half an ounce of saltpetre ; having done this, place them in an earthen pan, and bay-