PAR 370 ) PAR done; in the meantime, make a farce with the liver, parsley, shalots, crumb of bread, and butter, all pounded toge- ther ; take up the partridge, raise all its joints, and place some of ihe/arce under each, press the ^)art8 down again, tie up the bird, and stew it over a slow tire in equal quantities of consonv7ie and white wine. Partridges, a VItalienne. — Tho- roughly stew three partridges, with a farce, in their crops (or thejr may he boned) and the insides stuffed with plenty of good farce, lay them in a dish, and with a spoon garnish them with an Ita- lienne sauce. Partridges, Loaf*—Make a puree of partridges, adding to it ten or a dozen raw eggs, rub it through a coarse sieve; take a plain circular mould, butter it well, and fill it with the pwee, put it into the bain marie, and let it simmer for three hours; then turn it out on a dish, and pour over a fumet of game. Partridges, Manselle o/.* —Cut up four roasted partridges, put all the best parts into a saucepan to keep them hot; put the remainder of the birds into a mortar, with six shalots, a little .parsley, pepper, and a bay-leaf ; pound tliem well, and then put them into a saucepan, add half a glass of white wine, the same of stock, four ladiesful of espagiiole, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to about half, then rub it through a sieve, on to the birds, and serve them. Partridges, d la Mayon?iaise.*—Cut up three cold roasted partridges, trim the pieces, and put them into a basin with salt, pepper, vinegar, a little oil, and a minced when they have lain a sufticieRt time in tliis, drain and place them in a dish, taking care to have the three breasts uppermost, garnish them round with jelly, and pour over a mayonnaise; decorate the top with fil- lets of anchovies, gherkin, capers, and hard eggs. Partridges, Maicedf—T&kc the fil- lets from eight roasted partridges, mince, and put them into a saucepan; make a Ijght roux, in which put the livers and lights of tlie birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shalots, and a little sage, give them a few turns, and then add two large glasses of stock, reduce the sauce to half, strain and put it to the mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth ; make it_ hot, but not boiling ; serve it over fried bread, and garnish your dish, with either poached or hard eggs. Partridges, d la Monglus*—Having prepared and, trussed your partridges, roast, and let them stand till cold ; then take off the breasts, so that the remain- der of the birds may have the form of an oval well; cut the meat off the breasts, two or three trullles, and a score of small mushrooms into dice, mix them together; take six ladiesful of the same of fumet of game; reduce them to a third, and strain them over the mince ; heat your partridges in the lain marie ; place the birds in a dish, pour the ragofit into them, and serve with espagnole tru- vaillee. Partridges, en Pain.*—Take a nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight; make a hole at one end, through which take out all the crumbs, mb the crust over with a little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for a few minutes to dry : fill this with minced partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, bottom up- wards, into a stewpan ; add two spoons- ful of veal blond, with any other garnish you please ; let it remain on the fire till the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with the sauce round. Partridge, aux Papillotes.*—Cut a good sized partridge completely in half, from the neck to the rump ; put some butter into a pan, and do up the two pieces in it over the fire ; in aoout eight or ten minutes take them out, cover with herbs en papillotes, and let them stand to cool; then take a square piece of paper, large-enough to hold the half bird, rub it over with oil, lay a thin slice of bacon on it, then the bird, with the herbs, another thin slice of bacon, and fold the paper over the whole, and broil them slowly on a moderate fire. Serve them with a clear gravy. Partridge Pie in a Dish.—Take four partridges, pick and singe them; cut off their legs at the knee ; season with pep- per, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Put a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish ; put in the partridges with half a pint of good conso77ime. Line the edges of the dish with puff-paste, and cover with the same; do it over with egg, and let it bake for an hour. Part ni does (Stmiding Pie of) Chaude- froid. * — Make about six pounds of raised paste, which wrap in a damp cloth, and set it aside. Take five par- tridges, pick and bone them ; weigh the meat, and to each pound put a quarter of a pound of sniced salt; cuttbe meat from two wild rabhits, of which take a pound and d half, mince this with two pounds and a quarter of fat bacon, then put both these articles into a mortar, and pound them with eight drachms of spiced salt, two yolks, one whole egg, a shalot minced and blanolicd, a dessert-spoonful of pars- ley, two of mushrooms, tw,o of trullles,