2 K 2 ; PAN ,1 ! bit of butter, rolled in flour; let it sim- j nier gently a quarter of an hour, and I then serve. I Oysters Stewed.—Open, and take the liquor from tiiem, then cleanse them from the grit; strain tlie liquor, and add the oysters with a bit of mace and lemon- ; peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer )them very gently, add a little cream, and a hit of butter mixed with flour; serve il with toasted sippets round the dish. Oysters en Surtout.—Scald the oysters il in their own liquor, drain, and give them ;i a few turns over the fire, in a little but- : ter,, shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and ! a few yolks of eggs; then chop up the ! oysters, and mix them with bread-crumbs soaked in cream, shalots, mushrooms, i| parsley 0‘H shred small) yolks of eggs, ] pepper and salt; fill some scallops with this/arce, cover them with bread-crumbs ‘ and grated Parmesan cheese, put them ;i into the oven for a quarter of an hour. ' Oyster Toast,*—Take one dozen of I large oysters, and two anchovies, and i chop them together, put in a bit of but- ter, and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted; i then cut some slices from a roll, and fry I them in butter of a nice brown, but not 1 hard; lay the oyster on the fried bread, and serve. P, PAN.\D A.*—Boil some pieces of stale I bread in a sufficient quantity of cold >1 water to cover them, with a little cinna- II mon, lemon-peel, and carraways ; when 1 the bread is quite soft, press out all the H water, and beat up the bread with a small I piece of butter, a little milk, and sugru- I to the taste; a little spice may be •I added. Panada.—Set a little water on the fire I with a glass of white wine, some sugar, u a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel; i meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : t the moment the water boils up, put in > the bread-crumbs_ (without taking it off I the fire), and let it boil as fast us it can. When of a proper consistence, that is, ' when just of a sufficient thickness to ') drink, take it off the fire. Panada for Farces, 8fc.* —Put the ' crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with a little water, two ounces of butter, ' salt and pepper; set it on the fire, and let it simmer for an hour ; then add two 1 or three eggs, which stir in whilst on the I fire, taking care that it does not boil; I serve it hot. . _ PANCAKES.*—Make a good hatter I in the usual way with eggs, milk and I flour; pour this into a pan, so that it lays ( 375 ) PAN very thin ; let your lard, or whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. When one side is done, toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with lemon or Seville orange- juice, and sugar. PANCAKES d la FVanpa/se. — Put nearly a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin or stewpan, with a table spoonful of pounded ratafia, a thin rind of a lemon, and two ounces of sugar pound- ed ; then mix in one at a time, three whole eggs, and the yolks of three; when thoroughly mixed, put in a little milk, half a pint of cream, with a little orange- flower water, beat your batter well, and let it be just the thickness of good creami when you fry the pancakes, make them very thin, use good clarified butter, which put into your pan, and pour it oil'again, taking care that none remains at the bot- tom of the pan, as it would make the pancakes greasy ; when you have finished frying, leave a table-spoonful of the bat- ter in the stewpan, to which add a little pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, and the yolk of an egg, whicli mix up with the cream ; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put it in a boat, for sauce to the pancakes. Pancakes d V Italienne.—Make your pancakes the same as pancakes d la Fi-an- Quise, and when fried, lay them open on a clean dresser, spread them over with an Italienne cream, roll them up, and lay them in order on your dish ; be parti- cular to put the brown side outwards. PANNEQUETS Glaces.*—Put into a pan, two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoonful of dried orange-flowers; break up all these articles, and mix with them the yolks of ten eggs, four large glasses of double cream, and a pinch of salt. Wash the bottom of a frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above pre- paration, spread it over the pan, to make the paste as thin as possible: when thepan- nequet becomes lightly coloured, turn it over carefully, and do the other side ; then put it on a tin-plate, spread a little apri- cot marmalade over, and having strewed crushed macaroons on that, roll up the pannequet till about an inch in diameter; in the meantime put a second spoonful of your preparation into the pan, and pro- ceed in the above manner, garnishing one pannequet whilst another is cooking; taking care, however, to set the pan over a gentle fire. VVhen all are done, cut the panncqucts three inches in length, glaze, and dish them en couronne. Pannequets d la Royale.*—Prepare yow jmnnequets the same as pannequets g'/aces, filling them with chocolate creme