OAT NUT ( 353 ) 2 II 3 filberts, separate each nut in half, lay :] them on a tin-plate, and place them in a fj slow oven : move them occasionally, that d they may all he. equally coloured; and i{ when they are tinged sufficiently, remove i| them to the mouth of the oven. Put_ six (| ounces of sugar and a glass of water into H a preserving pan, boil them to caramel, i| pour the filberts into this, stirring them II very lightly lest they should break. As il soon as the nougat as.sumes a clear red- |l dish tinge, pour it on a buttered tin, over !■ which spread it as quickly as possible, |i and strew on its surface sugar a la^role, |i and pistachiosj (cut in slips, and dried in f the oven), lay it about eight inches long, I six wide, and of an equal thickness all ii Over; take care not to press it too much with your hands. When cold enough to [j resist the knife, and yet sufficiently warm if not to break, cut it into about thirty pieces, all of the same size, arrange them 'i tastefully on a dish, and serve. I NOUILLES, Potage of.*—Take three ^ quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks of I four eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little wa- ft ter; mix these together, and knead it well until the paste is fit to roll ; lay it j out quite thin, and then cut it into slips ; !; flour them well to prevent their sticking ; together; have boiling some good stock, into which throw the nouilles; half an hour is sufficient to do them; skim the soup well, and add, just before it is put into the tureen, some whole pepper; ! serve it as usual. Nouilles may also be made with the whites instead of the yolks of eggs ; nut- meg and pepper may be added to the paste, if agreeable. NOYAU, English.* — Two gallons of gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound,of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste ; six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of it with the almonds). Let these stand ten days in the gin, tlien filter it through blotting paper, and bottle it. NUT Bomhoons. — Boil a pound of Spanish nuts; when they are well boiled, rub ofl'their skin with a napkin, if some stick too hard, pare it off with a knife ; grate your nute very fine on a sheet of paper; then take a pound of powdered sugar to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a slow fire ; when your sugar is all melted (you must stir it constantly with a wooddn spoon) put your nuts in, and work them well till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin plate ; then spread it with a rolling pin, this must be done very quickly, as it cools very fast; when It is cold, cut it into what form yon please ; you must take care the sugar is not too muchmelted, for it is very .apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. Nuts Pralined.— Take a pound of Spanish nuts, take them out of Uieir shells, and put them into a pan, with a pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; let them boil till they begin to sparkle ; then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon, till you per- ceive the sugar turns gravelly; then set them again over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep stirring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them oft’, pour them into a sieve, cover them with a clean cloth, and put them into a stove ; this will pre- serve their gloss. NUTMEGS to Candy.—Take a pound and a half of double refined sugar, half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-water, and a very little gum arabic ; boil tliese to a candy height; let your nutmegs be first soaked in water; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to tliem,_keep them very close covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks,and they will be of a rock candy. Nutmeg Syrup.—Take a quarter of a pound of nutmegs, pound them, and put thern into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of hot water, and let them boil for halfanhour; then sti-ain, and to a pint of liquor, put two pounds of sifted sugar, and one egg, beaten up with a little cold water; set it over a fire, and when it boils, skim it till it is perfectly free from all scum, and reduced to a good syrup, and, when cold, mix with it half a pint of brandy. Nutjieg, Tincture of. — Take three ounces of nutmegs, bruise them, and put them into a quart of brandy, and let them steep in it for a fortnight, occa- sionally giving it a shake up ; then pour the liquor clean oft'. Nutmeg /Fafer.—Bruise half a pound of nutmegs; then take an ounce of orange-peel, three gallons of rectified spirits of wine, and a sufficient quantity of water; distil them, and sweeten them with two pounds of loaf sugar. O. OAT Cakes—are made in the same manner as inulfins, using sifted oatmeal instead of flour, and tliree gallons of water instead of two : null thedough into pieces, roll and finish the cakes as di- rected for ^muflins. When wanted, pull the edges apart, toast them nicely on both sides, and then open them com-