C I T C I N ( 170 spoonful or two of prepared bole-ammo- niac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and half an ounce of cinnamon-powder. When all these ingredients are well ini.\ed, cut some wafer-paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay on them the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, they maybe finished in the following manner;—Boil some sugar in orange-flower water, to la plume, and as you take the sweetmeats from the oven ; dip a hair-pencil intothe syrup, and brush them over ; this dries almost immediately, and considerably improves the look of them. Cinnamon (Syrup of).* — Put five ounces of good cinnamon into a pre- viously-heated glass cucurbite, or any delft or earthenware vessel, capable of resisting fire, pour into it two pounds, or a quart of nearly boiling water, close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot asbes_ for twelve hours; at the end of that time draw oil' the infusion without e.xpressing the cinnamon ; add to it two pounds of sugar, coarsely pounded, boil the whole to grand perle, then take it from the fire, and when about half cold, the flavour may be improved by the ad- dition of a few drops of spudt of cinna- mon. Cinnamon Tinelure. — Bruise three ounces of fine cinnamon, and pour on it a quart of the best brandy. Cinnamon JVafers,*—Pound and sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the same of flour, half an ounce of pow- dered cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay on it a spoonful of the paste; fry it, and when brown on both aides, roll it, still over the hot iron, round a small stick; do this until all the paste is used. Cinnamon fVater.—Bruise twoponnds of good cinnamon, and steep it, with half a pound of citron and orange-peel, and a quarter of an ounce of coriander seeds, in three gallons of Malaga sack, for two days, then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose-water; put it to the cinnamon- water, and bottle it. ^ CiNNAMONUM.*—Take a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, and one ounce of stick-liquorice ; bruise the.m well, and then put them into three quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion stand for some days before you distil it; dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints and a half of water; mi.x this syrup with the liqueur, and then strain them. This is sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. CITRON (Candied).—Piire thecitrons very thin and narrow, and throw tliem into water: these are called faggots; then cut tlie citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender, drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil them to- gether. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool, rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-pan with the back of a spoon ; as soon as it becomes white, take out the rings with a fork very care- fully, one by one, and lay them on a wire- grate to drain : boil and proceed with the faggots in a similar way; when taken out, cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on the wire to drain. Citron Cheesecakes.—Boil a pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it two eggs well beaten ; then boil them to- gether until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little orange-flower water; put them to the curd, and add some Naples bis- cuits and green citron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. Citron Cream.—Boil a pint of cream with half an ounce of isinglass, a little cinnamon and'lemon-peel,_ and a hay- leaf; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain the cream into a deep dish ; cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold ; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. Citron, H/oc^.—Cut them long ways into quarters; scrape out the seeds and inside ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruit kept in syrup; if there is any froth on them, they must be boiled up, and if they are very frothy and sour, the syrup must be first boiled, and then put in the fruit, and boil all together. Citron Paste.—Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the seeds ; boil them in some water; and when quite tender, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift them. To every quarter of a pound of this marmalade put half a pound of clarified sugar; simmer them together, Stirling constantly until well mixed;