CEL ( 129 ) C ED ends; boil some syrup in a large pre- PCrving pan twenty minutes, then put the cedrats into a large earthen deep pan, pour the syrup over them, and let them stand two days before you touch them: then boil them with syrup half an hour; (do not let them be too soft), put tliem into the pan, and coyer them with paper; the next day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them again, and repeat it so for ten days, al- ways keeping them covered with syrup; when done, put them into your pots, and when cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots are dry. Cedrat Made/aines.*—Grate on some sugar the rinds of two cedrats ; crush this sugar, and mix it with as much powder sugar as will make together nine ounces; put it into astewpan with half a pound of sifted flour, six whole and four yolks of eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, and a little salt; stir this mixture well, nntil the paste is formed, after which stir it one minute, but no longer. When your moulds are buttered, put nine I ounces of clarified butter into the pre- paration, which must be placed over a very slow fire, stirring it lightly, and as soon as it becomes liquid, pour a spoon- ful into each mould, and bake them in a I moderate oven. Instead of cedrats may be substituted the rind of oranges, (sweet or Seville), lemons, or crisped orange flowers. Cedrat (preserved) Madelaines.*— Cut two ounces of preserved cedrat into small equal sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the moulds. No other odour must be put in. Cedrat Pudding, eri Timbale.*—Cnt tlie crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them two glasses of boiling milk, set it on the fire, and stir it constantly, till it becomes a very spongy paste; then rub it in a mortar with six yolks and two whole eggs. Put this paste into a sauce- pan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, (on which the zeste of a cedrat has been rasped), two ounces of bitter macaroons, three ot dried currants, three of raisins, stoned, and cut in half, six of marrow, shred fine, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch ol salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. When these ingredients are well mixed together, pour them into a butter- ed mould, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cedrat /V%ter.—Take a large wooden ■spoonful of the essence of cedrat, put it ■m a bason, squeeze three lemons; add ■ three gills of syrup, and a suflicient ■ quantity of water; make it according to ■ your taste, be careful that all the essence is melted ; and if it is not rich cnquglij add more syrup; pass it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Cedrat JValer, — Take the yellow rinds of five cedrats, a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water, digest the whole in a vessel close stopped for twen- ty-four hours, then draw ofl' one gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. Another ivaij.*—Distil in an alembic bainmurie, the rinds of four cedrats and one lemon, in three pints of brandy ; from this you may draw nearly a pint and ahaMol liquetir. Dissolve two pounds of refined sugar in a pint of pure river water, mix it with the liqueur, filter and bottle it. Celerv.—This root is generally put into soups, but very little is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than other vegetables. To make a ragofit for meat with it, soak and wash it well in cold water ; then boil for half an hour, and shift it into cold water ; drain it well, and stew it with some stock and cullis ; take the fat offi, season, and serve it. When very white and tender it is eaten raw ; and as a salad, with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar and mustard. _ Celery Cream.—Put half a pint of cream and a pint of milk into a stewpan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it boil till a third is consumed ; take two heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream and beat up with it the yolks of five eggs, a little flour, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. If you wish to serve it cold, put in neither eggs nor flour, .but when the cream is strained, and is lukewarm, mix it with runnet, strain and put it into a dish for table; set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it re- main till the cream is set; keep it in a cool place till ready to serve. Celery Cream.* — Cut two well- washed heads of celery into small pieces, and boil them in half a pint of water; strain the decoction, and add to it a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a little coriander and cinnamon, the gtsfe of a lemon, and a spoonful of orange-flower- water; reduce it over the fire, to half the quantity, and whilst the cream is lukewarm, put in some gizzards, chopped very small; stir them well in, and then strain it; place it in hot cinders, cover It, and put fire also on the top ; when the cream is set, place it on ice to cool. Celery, —Blanch the heart and white leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock ; dry it in cloths ; cut it