G4 B I S B I S flavoured with, on the sugar, before it is cruslied and mixed with tbe egg. Biscuits (//ffA/),*—Take ten eggs, put the yolks of five in a pan with a few crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a green lemon, boih shred fine, and three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole together till the sugar is dis- solved and well mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites to a froth, and add to the sugar, stir in liglitly, and by de- grees, six ounces of flour, put them into buttered moulds, powdering them with fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Manqucs.* — Put into an earthen pan half a pound of powder- sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of pounded almonds, a little salt, and some orange-flower water, six yolks, and two whole eggs; beat up these ingre- dients well; whip the six whites, and mix them gradually with the above pre- paration ; make a paper case, butter and pour in it your biscuit paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some almonds into either dice or slips, mix them with some pow- der-sugar and white of egg ; when the biscuit Diunquis is about three parts done, dcrez and cover it with this latter mixture ; then replace it in the oven and finish baking. As soon as it is done, take it out and cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate. Biscuits, marbled*—Make twenty- four eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, and three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, into a biscuit paste, as di- rected for Spoon Biscuits; then beat four ounces of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste; when it is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one half mix a quarter of the biscuit-paste, which will tinge that por- tion a light chocolate colour. After this, mix together some vegetable red and in- fusion of saffron to colour half the re- maining paste orange ; then divide that again, and mix the last quarter with half the orange-colour, thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three high, pour into one of these a large spoonful of the choco- late-paste, and v/hen it has spread over the bottom of the case, pour in one of the orange-coloured, on which another of the chocolate, ,and so on, alternately, until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven lor three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit-paste (both colours) into apan andstirthein together with a spoon till the whole is veined, or clouded with the two colours; pour it into the other case, sprinkle it with flour, and ,bake like the former; when quite cold, cut them into slices about two ■ inches thick, half of which should be broken, and the other half cut in pieces of an equal size, lay them on a baking- plate, and dry tliem in the oven. These are generally used to make the rocks in ornamental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials, according to your fancy. Biscuits, Marchpane.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moisten tliera with water, ttien put them and a pound of powder-sugar into asauce- pan, over a clear but not fierce charcoal fire, stirring constantly, till the paste leaves adhere together; put it on a floured slab, and work it well with your hands for some time, then roll small pieces of it about three inches long and naif the thickness of your little finger, join the ends of each and make them into round rings, lay them on a sieve in a dry warm place for two or three days. When wanted, mix some powder-sugar with the whites of eight eggs, and heat them with a wooden spoon in each band ; add a cup of orange-flower water. Put your rings into this icing, and cover them completely ; lay them on a sheet of paper and bake in a slow oven until the icing sets and they begin to change colour. Do not remove them from the paper till cold. Biscuits, Millefruit. — Take pre- served orange and lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of each, six ounces of angelica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds; cut all tbe above ingredients into pieces half an inch long and a quar- ter wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; put the almonds, &c. into this, and hav- ing paper on your baking-tin. lay the cakes on it, of whatever size you please ; then with a hair pencil touch them here and there with a little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too hot an oven. Biscuits, Monkey.—Take the weight of six eggs in powder-sugar, and mix it with tlie yolks and a little pounded cin- namon ; whisk the whites to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the yolks; add four wliole eggs, and their weight of dry sifted flour, mix them well together ; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about the size of a half-crown piece on paper, join two together with ilie spoon, and wlien your paper is full, sprinkle powder-sugar over and bake them ; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two I undersides together.