p E a PER ( 390 ) grated, and ten eggs; knead all these in- gredients togetlier well, until you have a pretty firm paste; if it should be too thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut the paste into sinnll pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands, till they are the length and thickness of your finger; take a round stick (about hajf the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so that they may be their original thickness on one side, and thin on the other ; when all are thus pressed, form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost), lay them on while paper, and bake them in a mode- rate oven ; in the meanwliile, make some white sugar varnish or icing, and when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish, one by one ; tlien replace them in the oven, a minute or two, to dry. PEROGEE Padogees.*—Take a piece of beef, mutton or lamb, that is tender, the same quantity of beef-suet, shred separately very fine, then mix them alto- gether, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shalot; when seasoned, mix it with a little good broth or gravy; make a paste as followsMelt two ounces of Iresh butter in half a pint of warm milk; then put in one egg, well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees, till it is very stitti and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it out very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a puff, close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef- dripping. PERHY’. — Perry is a pleasant and wholesome liquor, made from the juice of pears, by means of fermentation, some- what in tlie same manner as cyder is made from apples. (See Cyder.) The best pears for perry, or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so excessively tart and harsh, as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. TheBosbury pear, the Bearland or Bar- land pear, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucestershire; the liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a strong body, and held in very great estimation. In making of perry, the pears should be ground and pressed, exactly in the same manner as those of apples in the making of cyder (see Cyder): but the reduced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of lime without being pressed. In Herefordshire, or Die counties in its vicinity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another, It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varieties than in one; therefore, it is supposed, ajudicious mix- ture of fruits affords a prospect of great benefit. In grinding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly reduced, and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp re- maining some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other circum- stances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best, which has remained the longest under the power of the mill-stone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are different, ln_ the juice of tne pear, the tanning principle is predominant, with a |es8 por- tion of sugar, mucilage, and tinging mat- ter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of management, during the process of fer- mentation, as cyder ; but it dees not aflbrd the same indicaiions, by which the proper period of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that col- lects on the surface of cyder, seldom appears on the juice of the pear ; and, during the time of the suspension of its fermentation, the excessive brightness of the former liquor, is rarely seen in the latter; but, wliere the fruit has been re- gularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation, the same means are used as in making cyder, and the liquor is rendered per- fectly bright by isinglass. For ibis pur- pose the isinglass should he reduced to small fragments, by pounding in a mor- tar, and afterwards being steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor, sufficient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this slate it must be mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diffused and suspend- ed in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incorporated with tlie whole by continued agitation for two or three hours. This process should be repeated till the required degree of brightness is obtained, the liquor being each lime drawn off, on the second or third day, from its precipitated lees. About an ounce and a half, or two ounces of isin-