APP ( 18) APP cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top of each apple with a cherry or ver- juice-berry. Serve this hot or cold. Apple Dionplmgs.*—Choose six or eight good sized baking apples, pare them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from each, put an apple on one piece and put the other over ; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil them. Apple £>u?nplings (Baked.)—Make them in the_ same way, but instead of tieing them in cloths lay them in a but- tered dish and bake them. Apples (dried or baked, or tapies).— Choose the clearest of baking apples, prick them rather deep with a pointed knife in several places, and put them in a moderate oven upon a baking plate; when half done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, strew them on both sides with powder sugar, and put them again into a soaking oven, with some more sugar over them. Keep them in a dry place. Apples Festooned, or en Farbalat.— Peel some golden pippins, core them whole, and stew them to three parts with sugar and a little water ; make the syrup pretty rich to clog to the apples; wrap them round with a thin paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knots or flowers with the same paste to put on the top of the apples; rasp some sugar over, and bake a very short time. Apples, (a Floating island of.)—Bake or scald eight or nine large apples; when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, beat this up with fine sugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs that have been beaten with a little rose water ; mix it a little at a time, and beat it till it is light; heap it on a rich custard or on jelly. Apple Fool.—Stew apples as for goose- berry fool, and then peel and pulp them, prepare the milk, &c. and mix as be- fore. Apples la Franginane.—Peel and rore a dozen apples, slice, them into a deep dish, over which shake some powder sugar, thinly spread it over with apricot jam and very thin slices of fresh butter over that; mix an ounce of potatoe flour with a pint of cream,a small bit of butter and sugar to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over the apples, and bake in a mo<lerateoven. Apple Froze.—C\\t apples into thick slices,andfry themofaclearlightbrown; take them from the pan, and lay them to drain; they may be pared or not; then make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two whites, beat them up with cream or flour, and a little white wine, make it of the consistence of pancake hatter; pour in a little melted butter, mixed with nutmeg and sugar. Let the batter be hot, and drop in the fritters, laying on every one a slice of apple, and then a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of a pale brown, when taken up, strew double-refined sugar all over them. Apple Fritters.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well to- gether, strain them into a pan ; then take aquart of cream, make it moderately hot, and add two glasses of sack, three quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them well together. When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. Apple Fritters.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak them for two or three hours in brandy, sugar, green lemon-peel, and orange flower water; when they have thoroughly im- bibed the flavour of these ingredients, drain, and put them into a cloth well sprinkled with flour, and shake them so that the flour may adhere all over them ; fry them of a good colour, glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Apple Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Turn twelve small apples, cut them into halves, and boil them in a syrup, then leave them to cool. When they are cold, make an extremely thin crust with brioche paste. Make a fritter for each half apple, then fry them and finish the same tis Fritters d la Dauphine. Pears cut into quarters, are made in the same manner as the above. Apples AND Almonds PetiVs Gdteaujc.’ —Proceed the same as above till the mar- malade is spread over the under crust, then cover it with almonds cut in fillets, press them in lightly; mask them with powder sugar and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as cold, cut your gdteaux according to your fancy, either round, oblong, lozenge, or crescent-shaped. Apples, Petits Gdteauz bandies.’— Having spread your marmalade on the paste in the usual manner, take some narrow slips of paste, roll them, and lay them about three-eighths of an inch apart diagonally over the marmalade ; mark out the forms of your gdteaux, bake in a moderate oven, and cut them as usual, Apple Marmalade. Petits Gateau.r.' —Make a marmalade of twenty-four apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of s