T U R ( 479 ) T U R water until done, and the liquor reduced, then rub them through a sieve. Add to them a little bcchamelle, then cut some more turnips in shapes, as lor haricot; simmer tliein also the same as the first, and then add them to tlie others. Turnip Soup.—Be careful in choosing your turnips, that tliey are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them into a basin of water; while they are preparing, seta quarter of a pound of butter on the fire in a shallow stetvpan, to clarify; when the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, put them in the butter, and fry them till they become of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain ; after this put them into a soup-pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with con- somme; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same ns other soups. It will be a great addition to put in at first with the turnips, a few heads of celery, cut round and blanched. Bread must be put in this, as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. Turnips in Various fVays.—Cut them in pieces, parboiled in salt and water ; then stewed in butter, with parsley, scal- lions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; thicken the sauce, and serve it over them. Par- boil, dram, and serve with a sauce tournee and mustard-sauce mixed. Turnip-tops.*—This vegetable is in season during the early partof the spring; they should be very young, and all the stalks, and withered leaves taken oil'. Turnip-tops require a great deal of water to boil tisem; put in some salt, and serve them like spinach. Turnip-tops, Pickled.—Choose them young, pick off all the stalks and wither- ed leaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender, press out all the water, and leave them to coal; then put them into a jar, with some salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. TURTLE Fins. — The fins being stewed with the turtle as in the receipt for turtle soup, make a dish of them nlnne, by putting them into a stewpan with some good strong espagnole, and some madeira or port wine, in which let them boil gently till the rawness is oil’ the wine ; then squeeze in some lemon- juice, lay them on a dish with a piste border round the edge ; garnish them with forcemeat, eitherin ballsor lengths, and pour the sauce over the whole. 'I'hey may be served with an Italienoe, tarragon, or any other sauce ; the inside flesh of the turtle, which has the apjiear- ance of chicken, may be larded and treated as a fricandeau oi veal. Turtle Soup.— The day before you dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make the forcemeat; then, on the preceding evening, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins with a cord; and put one round the neck, with a heavy weight attached to it to draw out the neck, that the head may be cut off with more ease ; let the turtle hang all night, in which time the blood will be well drained from the body. Then, early in the morning, having your stoves, and plenty of hot water in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the table on its back, and with a strong pointed knife cut all round the under shell, (which is thecallipee); there are joints at each end, which must be carefully found, gently separating it from the callipash (which is the upper shell) ; be careful that in cutting out the gut you do not break the gall. When the callipee and the callipash are per- fectly separated, take out that partof the gut that leads from the throat; that, with the three hearts, put into a basin of water by themselves ; the other interior part put away. Take the callipecj and cut off the meat which adheres to it in four quarters, laying it on a clean dish. Take twenty pounds of veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as directed for espagnole, pulling in the 11.’sh of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds of turtle herbs, carrots, onions,one pound and a half of lean ham, pepper corns, salt, a little spice, and two bay-leaves, leaving it to stew till it takes the colour of espagnole ; put the fins(the skin being scalded oft') and hearts in,, half an hour before you fill it, with half water, and half beef stock; then carefully skim it; put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil gently, Wke consomme. AVhile the turtle is alerting, carefully scald the head, the callipee, and all that is soft of the calii- pash, attentively ob.serving to tal;e off the small.-'st particle of skin that may remain; put them with the gut into a large put of water to boil till tender ; when f.o, take them out, and cut them in squares, putting them in a basin by themselves till wanted for the soup. The ne.'ct thing is the thickening of the soup, which must be prepared in the same manner as sauce tournee. The turtle being well done, take out the tins and hearts, and lay them on a di.sh ; the whole of the liquor must pass through a sieve into a large i>an; then, with a ladle, take off all the lat, put it into a basin, then mix in the turtle liquor (a small quantity at a lime) with the thick- ening made the same as sauce tournee ;