lofi CUE CUE fVith JFhipt Cream.—Vaia. good pinch of giim-dnigon powder into a quart of cream ; whip it till it is quite thick witli line rasped lemon-peel; pour it into a cloth-strainer, ora piece of muslin; drain it thus in a basket, and serve it the same as the first. Cheese Cream Iced.—Boil a pint of good cream, then put half a pound of sugar to it, abor.t a dozen of sweet al- monds pounded, a little preserved orange- flowers, or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon-peel; boil together a few minutes ; when you take it oil the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, and stir it continually till they are well ihixcd with the cream ; strain it in a sicH'e, and put it into the icing-pot, when it is pretty much much iced, work it well to put it into cheese-moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual, it is also done with coflee and chocolate, in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. Cheese Cream, Iced a la Bourgeoise.* —Boil a pint of very good thick cream with half a pint of milk, the yolk of an egg, three quarters of a pound of sugar ; when it has boiled up five or six times, take it off the fire, and flavour itwith any aromatic, either orange-flower, berga- mot, or lemon; pour the preparation into tin moulds to ice ; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your pails some ice, well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round your moulds, till it I'eaches the top of the mould. When the cheese is iced, and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water to loosen the dieese from the moulds ; then turn your cheeses into a dish. They should be eaten the moment they are served. Cheese Cream, and Marmalade. — Boil a pint of cream ; mix with it a few spoonsful of any kind of marmalade you please, and a little dried preserved lemon-peel, chopped fine; when it is but-just milk-warm, put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. Cheese Cream d la Princesse.*—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, two grains of salt, a little grated lemon-peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar; let the. whole boil until reduced to half, then take it oil' the fire; and when it is lukewarm, throw into it a piece of rennet (a little larger than a pea), mixed with a spoonful of water; pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes; when the curd i.s produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, atid when it has taken the form of a cheese, turn it into a dish. Cheese Cream IVUipped. * — Chop very tine a piece of gieen lemon-peel, and put it into an earthen pan with a pint and a half of good thick cream, and a piece of gum-dragon, about the size of a pea, powdered ; whip your cream, and as the whip rises, take it oil' with the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket; if the basket is not very close, you must put a piece of muslin in it; when the cream i.s all whipped, and it is sufficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it. Cheese Curd Florentine.—Break to pieces two pounds of cheese-curd, take a pound of blanched almonds finely pounded, with a little rose water, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach, cut small; sweeten itwith some sugar; mix it all well together; lay a pull-paste in the dish, put in the ingredients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across; bake it in a moderate oven : it takes half an hour; the top crust may be cut any shape. Cheese Curd Pudding. — Take the curd from a gallon of milk, turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with half a pound of fresh butter; strain to this the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, add two Naples biscuits, or lialf a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole ; put it into buttered tins, and bake'in a moderate oven; when done, turn them icto a dish, and garnish with citron, candied orange-peel, and blaarb- ed almonds, cut in slips ; sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them with melted butter and a little sack. Cheese Entrees. — Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with w'hich it is served should be dressed a la braise, or cn ragout; very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat, some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese; place your meat upon this, pour over the re- mainder of ynur sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. Cauliflowers and Spanish cardoons may be served in the same manner for entremets. Cheese, Fondue of.—Make a sort of pap with half a pint of cre.am, or good