CAL ( 101 ) CAL crayfish as you please, and place one be- tween each piece of the brain. Put one in tlie middle, with the tail and claws on. Pour over the brains either butter of cray-fish or tomata sauce. Calf’s Brains, Crepinettes o/.*—Di- vide six boiled calves’ brains each_ in half; cut a dozen large onions into dice, scald, and boil them with a bit of butter, salt, garlic, pepper, nutmeg, and bay- leaf; when done, put in two Jadlesful of velouti, reduce the whole to the consis- tence of batter, and then add the yolks of four eggs, and a piece of butter, wrap each half brain in this, and surround it with a pork caul. Serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Calf’s Brains, Cromesquis of.—Cut the brains, a veal sweetbread, a dozen mushrooms, and four truffles, into dice ; put the two latter into some allemande, and reduce it, then add the brains and sweetbread, and a little nutmeg; stir them together, and set them to cool. Mould them in pieces about the size of a little finger; take sorne cold calf’s udder, and cut it into thin slices, and lay a roll on each, and wrap it up; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains Fried*—Prepare and dress the brains as for poeiees, then cut them into six pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar, till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained; put them into batter (not too hot), and fry them; drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. Calf’s Brahis in Jelly.*—Put some jelly into a plain round mould, and set it in ice ; and as soon as the jelly is well set, turn it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice ; put on the jelly a whole calf’s brain, cover it entirely with iced Montpelier butter (see the Recipe); on this lay three more brains boiled very white ; ornament the top with pieces of jelly, and garnish yoar dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. Calf’s d la Magnonnaise.*— Cleanse and soak five calves’ brains in cold water for some hours; drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a tittle salt and half a glass of tarra- gon vinegar; having boiled them a quar- ter of an hour, take out the brains care- fully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons; cover the whole witli bacon and buttered paper; add a buncli ot sweet herbs, two onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains; when it boils, set the stewpan by the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour ; let the brains cool in their liquor, and then drain them on a napkin; divide each brain in half, trim and place them, en couronne, on the table-dish; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain, lay a crescent of jelly cut with a paste-culter, two inches and a half in diameter. Pour into the centre of the crown a sauce magnonnaise, either white, or « la ravi- gotte, and serve. Calf’s Brains, en Malelotte.*-^T&kQ the brains from two calves' heads, cleanse them well, and stew them with white wine, stock, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. In tlie meantime make a ragoQt of small onions, roots with stock, and svveet herbs; season it well, thicken it with cullis, and pour this round the brains. Calf’s Brains, au Naturel.*—Take the brains from two calves’ heads, clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or emsomme. Serve either cold or warm. Calf’sBrains,with Oysters.*—Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs; fry them in boiling lard till of a good colour, drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham cut in small round pieces. Calf’s Bruins, Pasty of.—Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some as- paragus tops with a little parsley and butter; when cold, put them into the pasties, with the yolks of six hard eggs and some forcemeat; put them into the oven, and when done, lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, butter, and gravy. Calf’s Brains, Poeiees.*—Take three calves’ brains, remove the skin and fibres from them, and soak them for two hours; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt and vinegar in it; blanch the brains in this for a quarter of an hour, and then put them into cold water. Line a stewpan with bacon, lay in the brains, cover them with bacon, and pour over the whole a sufficient quan- tity oipoiUe to stew them. Calf’s Brains, d la Provenqale.*— Prepare four calves’ brains as (or poilces, and having blanched them, boil them in H marinade of nouilles, white wine, gar- lick, and olives; when done, drain and let them cool; cut the brains in half.