( 189 ) C R E C RE touchingit with yotir finger, and observ- ing wliether it may be easily detached from the mould, take it from the bain- marie and let it stand; when no more than lukewarm, turn it out on your dish. It sometimes happens, unavoidably, that bubbles arise on the surface of the cream; in such a case, boil a glass of cream, and add to it, by degrees, three yolks of eggs; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; mix three ounces of fine sugar with it, and continue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper consistence, and on the point of boiling, then take it off and strain it. When the cream is ready for table, cover it completely with the last made cream, which will bide its defects. Cream Biscuits. — Break six eggs, separate the yolks and whites, beat the former with six ounces of powder-sugar, and the same of flour; whisk the whites, and then mix them together ; add to it whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into moulds or paper cases, and bake. Cream Biscuits.*—Take six ounces of flour, two of powder-sugar, a pound and a half of cream, and the whites of twelve eggs; beat up the latter with the sugar and flour; whip the cream, and lay it on a sieve. When well drained, mix them together, and put the prepa- ration into cases, and bake in the usual way. Cream Biscuits.*—Put the yolks of three eggs into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, on which has been rasped the zeste of a small cedrat; beat them up for about ten minutes, and then whip the whites and mix them gra- dually with the yolks, an ounce and a half of dry sifted flour, and four spoons- ful of whipped cream. When these in- gredients are well mixed and smooth, pour the paste into about a dozen small cases, glaze the tops of them with sifted sugar; when that is melted, put the biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake them for twenty, or five and twenty mi- nutes. Cream, Burnt.—Set on the fire in a stewpan two table-spoonsful of clarified sugar, leave it on till it begins to burn and get brown; then shake it about, and put in an ounce ofratafia biscuit, a small piece of lemon-peel, sugar, and orange- flower; stir it together; then put in a pint of new milk, boiled; when it has simmered by the side of the stove for twenty minutes, beat up four eggs, and the yolks of two, in a stewpan ; take the milk Irom the fire, and mix with it half a pint of good tliick cream, then the eggs, which rub through a tammy, and repeat it a second time. Rub some small moulds with clarified butter, and fill them with cream ; have a large stew- pan on the fire with a very little water at the bottom, when it boils gently, put in your cream, and cover it close, with fire laid upon the cover (if you think proper, it may be put into one large mould).— When done, take them out of the water, wipe them, and turn them on a dish. Cream Caite.*-Put a pound of flour upon a pie-board ; make a hole in the middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, and a little salt; mix the paste lightly, let it stand for half an hour, then add half a pound of butter; roll it out, five times, the same as puff-paste, and form it into small cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake in an oven. Cream Cakes.—Sift some double-re- fined sugar; beat the whites of seven or eight eggs ; shake in as many spoonsful of the sugar; grate in the rind of a large lemon; drop the froth on a paper,_laid on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a good deal of sugar over them ; set them in a moderate oven ; the froth will rise ; just colour them ; you may put raspberry jam, and stick two bottoms together; put them in a cool oven to dry. Cream Cakes.*—Put into a stewpan, two glasses of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut small, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, put it by the side of the stove; take out the lemon- peel, and add, by degrees, as much flour as the liquid will bear ; keep stir- ring it constantly, and place it on the fire again, for five minutes, then pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one, as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers; put the paste on a slab, and make your cakes of a round form. Crea.m au Caramel.*—Put a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and the peel of a young lemon, into a sauce- pan, and hoil them for a quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire; and boil a q^uarter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, until it becomes of a nice dark colour; take it off' the fire, and mix with the cream ; then put it on the fire again, until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan, with some hot water in it, over het ashes ; take a dish, in which you in- tend serving, and pour into your cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot.