DAB D A M ( 214 ) cyder. _ You may distil on as long as any spirits will run, lor other uses. Cyder iSioee^s.— Beat up the whites of forty eggs, and mix them with eight gallons of water; put to these half a hundred weight of sugar, put half the sugar into half the egg water, set it over a gentle fire, and stir it about till it is dissolved; then put in more egg water to keep it from boiling too high: putting in a quart at a time, till all the egg wa- ter is used ; skim it as it rises, and when it has done rising, and the sweets are clear, add the rest of the water, and boil it to the consistency of a syrup. Cyder Vinegar.*—Take about six pounds of sour le.aven, made with yeast and rye flour; dilute it with warm water, and pour it through the bung-hole into a large cask of cyder; put a large stick into the bung-hole, and stir it about well to mix the leaven with the cyder; then let it stand to ferment for a week; at the end of that time you will have a strong cyder vinegar, which must be drawn oil' immediately. CYPRUS WINE {to imitate). —"Vq nine gallons of water, put nine quarts of the juice of white elder berries, which has been pressed gently from the ber- ries, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels of the berries ; add to every gallon of the liquor three pounds of Lisbon sugar; to the whole quantity put an ounce and a half of ginger sliced, and three quarters of an ounce of cloves ; tlien boil this near an hour, taking off the scum as it rises, and pour the whole to cool in an open tub, and work it with ale yeast, spread upon a toast of white bread, for three days, and then tun it into a vessel thatwill just hold it, adding about a pound and a half of raisins of the sun split, to lie in liquor till you draw it off, which should not be till the wine is fine, which you will find in January. D. DABS Fried.—Put oil, rendered lard or dripping, into a frying pan, suffi- cient to cover the fish ; let the fat boil before the fish is put in; dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it; when fried, lay it on a cloth to drain. Dabs Stewed. — Clean the dabs, and cut olfthe fins; putlhem intoa stewpan, with as much water as will cover them ; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon- juice, and a shalot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough, skim them very clean, lav them to drain ina dish,but keep them hot; thenstrain off the liquor into the stewpan, put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoon- ful of catsup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine; let it bnil till it is of a proper thickness ; if there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DAMSONS —Gather them on adry day beforetheyare ripe, when they have just turned their colour. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and let them stand a fortnight; then carefully examine them, and if any of them are mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bottles, and cork the rest close. Put the bottles in sand, and they will keep good till the spring. Damsons Candied.—After they have been preserved, dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup ; then sift fine sugar over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Do this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them, but do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. Damson Cheese.*—Take eight pounds of damsons, and bake them in a jar till they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to them one pound and a half of lump sugar, and let them boil to the thickness of marmalade. Damsons Dried.—Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the s>TUp from them, cover the bottoms of sieves with them, and put them into stoves which should be hot, change the sieves every day till they are dry, and as you change the sieves turn the damsons, and when they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out, paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper be- tween each layer of damsons. Damsons Dried.—.Make a thin syrup, let it boil, and skim it, then stone your damsons, and put them into the syrup ; boil them up once, then le.nve them in the syrup; make another syrup nfith some refined sugar, with just suflirient water to damp it; boil this syrup till it is candied, then take the damsons out of the first syrup, and put them into the syrup you Imve just made; let them sim- mer in it a little over the fire, and leave them in afterwards, till the following day; then place them one by one on a sieve, and dry them upon a stove or in nearly a cold oven, turning them twice a day. ’ When ttiey are dry, place them by layers, into boxes, with paper Iwtween each layer: keep them in a dry, cool place. , Damson Drops.—Pot some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to birak ; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve ; sift some