342 ) M U T MUT breast of mutton into oviil-shaped pieces, biHiae them (adding some slices of ham to the usual braising materials) for three hours. When wanted for the table, drain and glaze them. Serve with spinach, endive, sorrel, or any thing else. Mutton {Breast of) Collared.—Take. a breast of mutton, take off the akin, bone it, and roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it well whilst it is roasting. Put some good gravy into the dish and into a boat, with some currant-jelly in another boat, and serve. Mutton {Breast of) a la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Braise a breast of mutton in the usual way ; when done, take it out, rub salt and pepper over it, dip it in melted butter, bread it thoroughly, and broil it over a slow fire, pass a salaman- der over it, and serve with a clear gravy. Mutton {Breast of) aux Petites Ra- cines.*—Prepare and biaise a breast of mutton as directed for Carbonade, and when done, drain the pieces, dish them, en co/uro7ines, in the centre of which pour the ragofU of carrots. (See Petites Ra- cines.) Mutton {Breast of) Roasted with fVine.—Skin and bone a breast of mut- ton, then roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal. Roast it, and baste it with half a pint of red wine ; when you have used up all the wine, finish basting with butter. Have a little good gravy in rea- diness, and when the mutton is done, set it upright in a dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce the same as for venison, and send it up to table without any garnish. Mutton Brof4.—Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, take out the blood, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; and wnen tlie water is lukewarm, pour it off, skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of water, a lea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of grits, and an onion ; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the scum off, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very shnvly lov two hours, and strain it tlirough a clean sieve. Mutton Bi'oth.—Cut a neck of mut- ton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to he served up in the tureen ; put all into a stewpan with tbiee quarts of cold beef stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and parrley. When it boils, skim it clean, and when nearly done, take out the piece you in- tend to serve in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley, all cut small, and some marigolds; wash them, strain the liquor ofl' the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingredients with the piece of mutton in- tended for the tureen, adding a little pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and serve with toasted bread on a plate. Mutton, Capilotade of.*—Cut the re- mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, put them into a pan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, white wine, stork, and a dessert spoonful of olive oil; when about half done, add to it two ounces of raspings, cover the saucepan close, and let it boil slowly for three or four, hours; then pour it on a dish with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. Mutton C'4qps in disguise.—Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end close; have some hog’s- lard or beef dripping boiling in a frying-- pan; put in the steaks, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and gar- nish with fried p.Trsley, throw some all over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauce-boat; but tske great care that you do not break tlie paper, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. Mutto.v, to Collar a Breast of.*—Take off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a breast of mutton ; then grate white bread, cloves, mace (a small quantity), pepper, and salt, the yolks of three eggs bruised small, and a little lemon-peel, shred fine ; make the meat flat, strew the sea- soning over it with four oi^five anchovies, washed and boned ; roll the meat up as a collar, bind it witli a coarse tape, and broil or roast it, cut it in three or four pieces, and serve it up with a good thick gravy; fried oysters, or force-meatballs are an improvement. It is very good cold, cut in slices like collared beef. Mutton Coitops.—Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that lias hung some time ; cut it into slices, about the size of half an egg ; be.it them quite fl.it, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, shalots. mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the aliove se.isoning, a few slices of veal, and ham. cover them with bacon, and let them simmer for about half an liour; put in half a glass of white wine, and some stock ; when quite done, take out the mutton, dram and dish it, add a little cullis to the