PIG ( 403 ) PIG Ecaldeda pig, singe, and bone it to the head, which leave wliole ; take a pound of calf’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince both these with a little sage, pounded spice, ai-oinatic herbs, salt and pepper: fill the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some large lardons, also lard the limbs and back of the pig; sew in the farce, rub the whole body with lemon, lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay- leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up; put it into a saucepan; pour on it equal quantities of good stock, and white wine, and let it simmer for three hours and a half over a moderate fire; then take it off, and leave it in the sauce- pan ; in an hour’s time take it out, press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled; do not remove the cloth until perfectly cold ; lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. Pig’s Tails d, la Puree.*—Take half a dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and cut them into pieces about eight inches long ; braise with some lentils, two car- rots, two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, stock, or water,and salt; when they are done, finish in the same manner as pig’s ears d la purie. Piq’s Tongues Smoked.*—Take as many pig’s tongues as you please, take out the horny parts, scald them suffi- ciently to enable you to remove the first skin; put them as closely together as you can, into a jar, rubbing each with salt and a little saltpetre, add basil, bay- leaf, thyme, and juniper berries; place something heavy on the top to press them down; fill all the interstices with salt, and cover the jar very close, and set it in a cool place. In a week’s time take out the tongues, drain and tie them in skins like black puddings, and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table, boil them m water, with a little wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIGEONS.— Pigeons should be ex- tremely fresh ; when so, and in good or- der, they are plump and fat at ilie vent, and their feet pliable; but when they are stale, the vent is open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons are considered preferable to the wild. Pigeons A l’Aurore.*—Vw\. into a pan a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg, then your pigeons ; set the pan on Uie fire, and brown the birds; then mix in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of consomme ; boil it quickly, and add some mushrooms, and an onion stuck with cloves; in about a quarter of an hour take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add two eggs, take out the onion and bay- leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and let them cool, and then stew them with mushrooms minced and mixed with the sauce; moisten the birds well with the batter, and cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and seasoned, and bread them again. Fry your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Pigeons to Broil.—When thoroughly cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt them, then broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms, in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Pigeons ti la Bru7iswick.*—Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise be- tween slices of bacon, with a little lemon juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breasts of fowl or game, minced, and give these a few turns, with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this fa7-ce on a dish, then- place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and between each a pigeon, and a slice pf veal glazed on the latter; cover the whole with the re- mainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. Pigeons en Caisses.*—Prepare six pre- viously cooked small pigeons, ina similar way to quails en caisses. Pigeons A la Casserole.*—Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stewpan, lay in the pigeons, breasts downwards; as soon as it is melted, season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them; then put them on a dish. Take three-fourths of the butter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon, or two spoonsful of vine- gar and half a glass of water; boil these up twice, and then pour them on the birds. Pigeons in Caul.*—Take some very young pigeons, and having trussed them, split them down the back, and fill them with a good farce; lay a thin slice of bacon over each half, and wrap them in a piece of c.aul, previously soaked in warm water; bread them, and bake in a moderate oven. Pigeons A la Charmante.—Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, a