(3< }) LAM LAM Reason with salt, pepper and sweet herbs minced small, add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb’s head with these; then put it in a siewpan, and let it stew with some good stock ; make the remainder of the mincemeat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. Lamb’s Head Stuffed*—Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done; take out all the bones, and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal ; put this farce into the head, bread it all_ oyer, and put it into a mild oven; when it is of a nice colour, take it out, and serve it quite hot, with veal gravy. Lamb (House) Hind Quarter of to Force.—Cut off the shank, and with the knife, raise the thick part of the meat from the bone; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some grated bread, a little pound- ed mace, pepper, and salt, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs ; put this force- meat under the part where the meat has been raised up,'and under the kidney; let it be half roasted, then put it into’ a stewpan, with a quart of mutton gravy ; cover it, and let it stew very gently; when it is sufficiently done, take it up and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy ; add to it a glass of Madeira, one spoonful of walnut catsup, half a lemon, a little cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb. Lamb (House) Steaks Brown, — Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy, with butter and flour; add a little red wine, some catsup, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. Lamb (House) Steaks White, — Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace; have ready some veal gravy, some mush- room-powder, salt, a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up, put in a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb, Leg of, Boiled.—It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with. bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, serve them round the dish, and garnish with dried or fried parsley ; serve with spinach to eat with it. Lasib (Leg of) to Force.—Take a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the following forcemeat To two pounds of meat, put tvvopoundsof beef suet, finely chopped; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or six large blades of mace, dried and finely beaten, half a large nutmeg grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon-peel cut fine, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs; mix all these together, and put it into the skin ; makeit as near as you can into the same shape it was before; sew it up, roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them. Lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from the loin, round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round, upon the steaks. Pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, and then serve. (Leg of) en Saticissons.— Bone a leg of lamb, and take out above half the meat; simmer it in butter a minute or two; then mince it with calf’s udder, grated bacon, bread, soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, truffles, season it with salt and spices; put this into the re- mainder of the leg, draw the skin over, roll it up into the form of a sausage; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tight, and boil it in stock, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots and onions sliced. When done, serve it with any sauce you please. Lamb (Leg-o/) Stejued with Pease.— Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it ia some stock or beef braise. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times; then have some good young pease, well stewed, witli some good bechamelle sauce; pour them on the dish, and lay the leg on the top, and cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and some strong gravy; when nearly done, shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the pease, and serve them hot to table. Lamb’s Livers.*—Have two lambs’ plucks, cut the lights into dice, and the liver into thin slices; fry them lightly over a small fire in butter; they should be scarcely more tlian browned; drain away half the butter; add a little parsley and a few mushrooms, shred small; sea- son tliem with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice and serve them very hot.