248 FOW FO W Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is com- monly served with them. Fowls are trussed in the same manner as chickens (See Chickens). Fowls {BechamcUe of) au Gratin.*— Put half a dozen spoonsful of hechanielle, and a piece of jelly into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; take the remains of some roasted fowls, and having minced it very small, put it into the bechametle; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish ; beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, strew on it grated bread-crumbs, and Parmesan cheese; pnur a little melt- ed butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. Fowls Boiled loith Rice.—Stew a fowl in some well skimmed clear mutton broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. Fowl, Boudins of* — Sprinkle some flour on a table, and lay on it some farce d Quenelles, make into whatever forms you may think proper, and poach them ; then drain, and cover them with bread- crumbs ; broil and serve them on a half glaze. Fowl d la Braize.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, and cover it all over with thin slices of bacon. Wrap round it beet-leaves, then in veal caul, and put it into a large saucepan with three pints of water, a glass of Madeira, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite tender; then take it up and skim off' the fat; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and strain it through a hair sieve: putto it a pintof oysters and a tea-cupful of thick cream. Keep shaking your tossing-pan over the fire, and when it has simmered a little, serve up your fowls with the bacon, beet-leaves, and caul still on, and pour the sauce hot over it. Garnish willi barberries, or red beet-root. Fowl(1 la Braize.—Txxiis a fowl the same as for boiling, season the inside with pepper and salt; put at the bottom of the vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon, and bits of veal, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a lemon, pepper and salt; set this over a slow fire for ten minutes, tnen put to it about three pints of heel broth or warm water ; warm a glass of Nladeira and pour in ; stew this till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water ; mix a little flour with it, boil it up, and serve it over the fowl. Oysters are a greataddition. Fowls Broiled. —Take a large fowl, and cut it into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half roast; or half roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the grid- iron, by which means it will be less dry than if done wholly on the gridiron. If you half roast the fowl whole, it must be split down the back afterwards, then pep- pered, salted, and broiled. Fowl Broiled.—Split tliem down the back, well salt and pepper them; then broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Fowl d Campine, with raw Onions.— Truss a fowl with the legs outward, and roast it. It must be of a good colour. When done, slit the breast, cut raw onions in slices, which you should intro- duce into the slits you have made, and send it to table with a bronm poivrade highly seasoned, and very hot. Fowl, Capilotade of.*—Take tlie re- mains of a ready dre.ssed fowl, and put them into a stew'pan; then do up .some parsley, shalots, and four mushrooms, all shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the latter becomes liquid, add four ladiesful of espagnole. and two of cou- sommi, reduce, and skim it; pour it on your fowl, set it on the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour, before you send it to table. Fowl(coW) to Dress.—Cut a fowl into quarters, and beat up one or two eggs ; grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped par.sley. and a few bread crumbs ; beat tliem well together, and dip the fowl into this mixture ; then fry them of a fine light brown ; prepare a little good gravy, thickened with a little flour, and put in a spoonful of ketchup ; lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour tiie gravy over it; you may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. Fowls, Collops of.*—Take some pull paste, roll it out very thin, and lay on tmlf of it, at intervals, some small piecM oi quenelle farce, moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder oyer it. press it down, and then either with a paste-cutter, or a knife, rut in semicir- cles ; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley.