Small, a few crumbs, some pepper, salt, liquor, and put four spoonsful of it with one of them stuck with cloves, three over the fire, and when ready to serve, the sauce a ladleful ol veloute, and when toss them up in some butter, taking care ( 111 ) CAN in pieces, in a little butter, and having scald and blanch them; cut, and boil CAL of spice, pcpner, salt, shred parsley, and onions: lay slices of bacon at the bottom, and round, a braising or stewpan, put in the liver, with four carrots, four onions, bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine, cover it with bacon and paper, and place it over a stove; when It boils, cover the stove, put the pan on again with ashes on the lid, let it simmer for two hours. When done, strain the four of poivrade, reduce them to half, and pour this sauce over the liver. Calf’s Pluck d la Bourgeoise,—The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, and spleen, cut these in pieces, soak them well incoldwater,and blanchthem; then put them in a stewpan, a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs, add a little flour, ahd moisten with stock. When done, and well flavoured, put to it the yolks of three eggs, diluted with milk, thicken it put in a little verjuice. Jlnolher way.—Boil the lights and part of the liver, roast the heart stuffed with Suet, sweet herbs, parsley, all chopped nutmeg, and a little lemon peel; mix it with the yolk of an egg. When the lights and liver are boiled, chop them very small, and put them in a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some pepper and salt, with a little vinegar or Iemon*juice; fry the other part of the liver with some slices of bacon, lay the mince at the bottom, the heart in the middle, the fried liver and bacon round, with crisped parsley. Serve with plain butter. Calf’s Tails.—Must always be scald- ed ; if for fricandeauso^ lard and braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. Calf’s Tailsau Blanc.*—Prepare some calf’s tails as en^ Terrine., and having mixed the flour with them, moisten with water; put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay leaves, mush- rooms, salt and a little pepper; skim as directed in the above-mentioned re- ceipt; add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs. This ragofit may be made brown as well as white; it is coloured mtharoux. Calf’s Tui/s and Cabbages. — Scald calves’ tails and pickled pork, scald also a good Savoy for about half an hour; take it out, press all the water from it, cut it in quarters, tie it, and braise all together m slock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done, take them out, j and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick cullis. Calf’s Tails en Macedoine.*— eight calves’ tails with their skins on, them in Madeira wine; when done, drain, and put them on the table-dish: garnish with veal sweetbreads d la jlamande, onions glazed, and mask each piece of the tails very carefully with a Macedoine. Cap’s Tails en Terrine.* — Divide seven or eight calves’ tails at the joints, not to colour them ; then add four small spoonsful of flour, mix them well, and put in four ladiesful of consomme, and stir the ragofit till it boils, skim it well; put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and some scallions. When it is about three parts done, skim off all the fat, and when quite done, take out the pieces of tails, and the mush- rooms, with a spoon with holes in it, and put them in another saucepan; add to properly reduced strain it over the tails; poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweetbreads cut drained, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragofit with five yolks of eggs, stir them in ever the stove, but do not let it boil; as soon as you find it sufficiently thick, pour it into the tureen, over the quenelle, and other articles, which must be kept hot. Calf’s Tongue.*—Must hang till ten- der; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. They may be dressed in any form, and served with what sauce you please. Calf’s Tongues au Miroton.*—Prepare and lard as above, braise tliem. When done, and cold, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan, with mushrooms and sweet herbs, moistened ndth veal gravy, or blond, when done, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Tongue, with Sauce Piquasite.* —Soak eight calves’ tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour: then coo], trim, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. T^ljey will require three hours cooking. When done, take offthe skins, glaze,and place them round a dish, with an oval crouton in the centre. Serve with sauce piquante. CANAPES."* — Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes you may think proper ; such as hearts, squares, lozenges, &c.; L 2