BAG (36) B AL turn, and pour more batter over tbem. When both sides are ofa good colour, lay tbem on a dish and serve hot. Bacon, Gainmo7i, to bake.—Lay it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, and stufi' it with all manner of sweet herbs,as thyme,8age,savory,sweet mar- joram, penny-royal, strawberry leaves, violet leaves, and fennel; chop these small, and mix them with the yolks of bard eggs, pepper and nutmeg beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is cold, pare ofl'the under side, pull off the skin, season it with pepper and nutmeg, and put it in a pie or pasty, with'whole cloves and slices of raw bacon laid over it, and butter; close it, and bake it. Bacon (to 77iake).*—Rub the flitches well with common salt, and let them lie 80 that the brine may run from tliem. In about a week rub off all the salt and put them into a tub. Then rub into the flitches apoundof saltpetre,pounded and heated ; tlie next day do tire same with common salt, also heated. Let them lie a week, often rubbing, then turn and rub them ; do the same for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time dry and hang them up for use. Bacon Omelet.*—Cut some streaky bacon, which has been boiled for half an hour, into dice, and fry it simply with a bit of butter. When it begins to get crisp, pour into the frying-pan a dozen e^gs (previously beaten), stir them well with the bacon, gather up the edges of the omelet, to keep it of a proper thick- ness. Bacon Thrf.—Melt a pound of fat bacon in a frying-pan, and strain it with the bottoms of two or three artichokes, two macaroons, and the raw yolks of a couple of eggs ; season with salt, pepper, beaten cinnamon, and sugar; then set it on the fire, stirring it continually with a spoon, then put it into a patty-pan upon a very thin sheet of paste, bake it for half an liour without any covering or paste, then ice it over with icing made of sugar and orange flower water. Bacon Toast.*—Cut off the ends of a stale brick, and lard the middle with streaked bacon ; then with a very sharp knife cut tlie loaf in slices about a quarter of an incli thick, dip them in egg, and fry gently in a very hot pan, until of a good colour. Serve with clear' sauce, with a little vinegar and pepper. Bacon Toast.*—Cnt some thin slices of bread about two three inches long, cut some streaked bacon in small pieces, dip them into a raw egg beaten up with shred parsley, green onions or shallots, and pepper; fry over a slow fire and serve with clear- sauce and a little vinegar in it. B A CQUILLIO M'jV/t /ierls.—Soak your fish well; then boil and take out all the bones. Wash and chop small some spi- nach, Sorrell, green onions, and parsley; then add fresh butter, essence of ancho- vies, cayenne pepper, and plenty of Se- ville orange juice. Sweat the herbs down, add the fish, and simmer till tender. BADIANE, Indian.*—Take a pound of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six quarts of good brandy for a week, when add to it a pint and a half of water, and distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, and add it to the distilled liquor. Stir it well, strain and bottle it. This is also called Badiane Cream. Some persons colour it with a little co- chineal, it is then called Oil of Badiane. BAIN Marie.—A flat vessel, contain- ing boiling water, meant to hold other saucepans, either for purposes of cookery or to keep dishes hot. The advantages of preserving the heat of dishes by the bain niU7'ie is this, that no change is eflected in the flavour of the ingredients. BAKING.—The following useful ob- servations, written by Mr. Turner, English and French Bread and Biscuit Baker, at the instance of the author of the Cook’s Oracle, are printed in that very popular work :— “Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing a din- ner in small families; and 1 may say, that the oven is often the only kitchen a poor man has. if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. “ I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting, to baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly ap- proach to the same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the table, and eaten as such with great satis- faction. “ Legs and loins of pork; legs of mut- ton ; fillets of veal; and many other joints, will bake to great advantage if the meat be good, I mean well fed, ra- ther inclined to be fat; if the meat be poor, no baker can give satisfaction. “ When baking a joint of poor meat, before it has been half baked, I have seen it start from tlie bone, and shrivel np scarcely to be believed. “ Besides those joints above-mention- ed, I sliall enumerate a few other dishes which I can particularly recommend. See Pig.Goose. Buttock of Beef, Ham." B.\LM //7;ic.—Boil twenty pounds of lump sugar in four gallons and a half of water gently for an hour, and put it in a tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeasu and when