CUR CUR ( 208 ) it together during four and twenty hour?, two or tliree times, and then fill up tiie cask with water, and close it. This quantity of fruit will make a hundred and fifty bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of brandy. CvRRAKT {Blac/c) IVhic.—Take three pounds of ripe black currants ; pick and bruise them, and put them into a deep basin, with four bottles and a half of brandy; add, if you please, some cloves, and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a place for two months. At the end of that time, strain ofif the liquor, pressing the currants well, in order to extract all the juice, which put again into the jar, with a pound and three quarters of sugar; leave it till the sugar is completely melted, and then strain through paper, and bottle oH'. This liquor becomes excellent after three or four years keeping. CuftRANT {Dry) Brioche.*—Tliis is made in the same manner as the cheese brioche; only that currants (a pound and a half to eight pounds of the paste), are used instead of cheese. 7’he same quantity of stoned raisins may also be used, if preferred. Cdruant {Dry) Cukes. — Take two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonsful of white wine, three spoonsful of carraway seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of currants ; beat up the_ butter with your hand till it is very thin ; dry the flour well; put in the carraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grated ; afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose-water ; mingle them well together ; put in the currants ; let your oven be pretty hot, and as soon as they are coloured they will be sufti- ciently done. Currant {Dry) Funchonnettes. * — Take half the quantities of the usual ingredients, (see Funchonnettes), with the addition of three'ounces ot dry cur- rants. When your funchonnettes are made and pearled, put between, and on each pearl, a single currant, (for which purpose take an ounce). Put them into a gentle oven, paying particular atten- tion that the 7ncringues, or pearls, do not lose their white colour. Currant {Dry) Fritters d la Dan- p/iwe.*—Having picked and washed six ounces of dried currants, boil them gently for a minute or two in two ounces of clarified sugar. When cold, put about a quarter of a spoonful of them on each fritter (see Fritters d la Dauphine), and finish as therein directed. Currant Fritters without Eggs.— Half a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour to make it tolerably thick, and a few currants; beat this up quick ; liave the lard boiling, throw in a large spoon- ful at a time. Currant {Dry) Genoises.*— Having washed and dried a quarter of a pound of currants, mix half of them, and the peel of a lemon, shred fine, with the usual preparation. (See Gemise.) Finish and glaze them as directed, with a quarter of > a iDOund of powder-sugar, and a little white of egg; as you do them, strew over each a few of the currants; dry them a minute in the oven. Currants {Dried).^ Madeluines of.*— Prepare your paste m the usual way, and when it Is ready to put in the moulds, mix with it two ounces of currants. Currants {Dry) Mosaic Tartlets of.* —Wash half a pound of dry currants, and ' mix three quarters of them with a pot of apricot marmalade; with this fill your tartlets. (See Mosaic Tartlets.) When baked, glaze them, and strew over them the remainder of the cur- rants, which must be perfectly dry. Currants {Dry) Nongals.*—Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet al- monds; cut them into thin slices, and put them into a cool oven to colour them ; dissolve six ounces of powder- sugar, and when it begins to turn red, throw in the almond.-, stirring them with a spatula; pour this mixture on a but- tered plate thinner than usual, (see Nongats d la Franyaise), and strew over it dry currants and sugar. Finish them in the usual manner, and then cut them into crescents, with a c'ucular paste- cutter, of two inches diameter. Aniseed ?iongats .are made the same way. Currants {Dried) Cream Pd fissile of.*—Wash a quarter of a pound of dried^ currants in several waters, till perfectly*^ clean ; dry them well, and then simmer them a few minutes in two ounces of clarified sugar. Make a cream pdiissiere, (see that article); and having mixed the butter with it, add a quarter of a pound of sweet and bitter macaroons, two ounces of powder-sugar, and the currants. Raisins may also be used for this pur- pose ; but they must be stoned, and each raisin cut in half. Currant {Dry) Petits Pains.*—rm the petils-pains. made like pi fits-ituDis d la reine, with cream pati.-isiere, to which is added, two ounces of powder- sugar. and two of dry currants. Then make a glaze with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, ana half the white of an egg; mask each petit-pain with this.