W AL WAF I in a Tnarble rnortar, and with a wooden pestle, one pound of picked violets; warm gradually a glass, or enrthenivare vessel with asmiil! opening, into which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them two pounds of boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when necessary, to keep up an equal temperature for twelve hours; after that time pass the whole through a close cloth, squeezing it well; let it stand fur half an hour; then pour it oft’ very carefully, that all the sediment may remain at the bottom : weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded seventeen ounces; put into a matrass two pounds of crushed sugar with the infusion, close the matrass tight, and set it in the bain marie, over a mo- derate fire; shake it occasionally to ac- celerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, let the fire go out and the matrass cool gradually. When cold, pour the syrup into bottles. VOL AU VENT.*—Take three quar- ters of a pound of puft’-paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over ; lay a very thin piece of common paste on a baking tin, put the puff-paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it is to be served in ; make a mark all round the top, at an inch and half from the edge, dwez, and decorate the aides and top according to taste, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, take . out the inside, as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and then fill your Fol an vent with such ragoxtts or fruits as may be directed. W. WAFERS.* — Take a pint of good cream, half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of powder sugar, and two drachms I of orange-flower wafer. Beat the cream ’ with the flour, a little at a time, until ' both are mixed perfectly smooth and free from lumps, then add the other articles ; ■ and as much more cream as will make the ' paste nearly as thin as milk; make the ! iron hot, dip a feather in some melted ‘ butter, and rub the iron over with it; ' put on the iron about a spoonful and a r half of the pa‘<te, press them a little • gently, and place tlie iron on a stove ; ' open the iron a little frequently, to see 1 if it be done ; when one side is baked, : turn the iron, and do the other. The r' wafers should only be lightly celoured. I Take them from the mould carefully with a knife. Wafeiis, d VAllemandc.*—Blanch a t pound of sweet almonds, and cut them ' into very thin slices ; put them in a basin ( 499 ) with three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and two pinches of crisped orange- flowers, mix them together with white of egg. Rub some wafer paper over with white wax, and a little sweet oil ; spread the preparation over it as thin as pos- sible, and strew chopped pistachios on the surface; put them into a rather hot oven. When about half done, take them out, cut them into squares, replace them in the oven a moment, and then roll them on a stick; as soon as they are cold, lay them on a sieve, keep them covered. Wafers, en Cwwefs.*—Three ounces of butter, the yolks of three eggs, a quart of water, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and the same of flour. Melt the butter, then put to it the eggs (well beaten), sugar, flour, and the water, a little at a time, to prevent any lumps. Make your wafers as above directed, and whilst hot, twist them round like horns. Wafers {German).*—Take seventeen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of good yeast, which make into a paste, with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely, without being too clear ; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs well beaten, the whiles whipped to a snow, and the grated rind of two lemons. Tlie whole being well mixed, pour over it seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time; when it has risen sufficiently, and your pan quite hot, mb the latter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers; make both sides equally brown ; when done, sprinkle them wdth powder sugar (and cinnamon, it you like), and serve them hot. Be careful in taking out the paste to fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the spoon into the preparation, when not using it; the upper part of the paste should be taken oft'very gently, and the spoon laid across the top of the vessel; if these precautions be not attended to, the good appearance of the wafers will be destroyed. Wafers, d VItalienne.*—Take eight eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a pound of flour, six ounces of cream, tlie same of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, milk, and other materials, by degrees; mix them well, and take cure there are not the slightest lumps. Make the wafers as directed. WALNUTS, in Branrfy.*—Take your walnuts for this purpose, when sufli- ciently young for a pin to penetrate