( 57 ) BEE BEE with any ragout of vegetables you please. 'I'o serve the sausages cold, to make a dish for the second course, reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all thefatis consumed; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce adhering to them, and serve upon a napkin. Beep (Sirloin of) mEpigram.—li&vmg roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in tine shreds ; but take care that you do not cut the sides. Have a strong brown sauce ready with a few mushrooms, peppei-j and salt, and a little lemon juice; put m the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin over. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. Beep (small Sirloin of) RagoUt.— Braise a bit of sirloin, larded with large lardons in broth, and a pint of white wine; add a faggot of sweet herbs, onions, and roots. When done, take it out, and serve it with a ragout of sweetbreads, of mushrooms, or any other kind of ragout. Beef S/cirts.—Beef skirts eat well broiled; they also make a most excellent pie. Beef Smoked a la Hamlourg.*—Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air: turn your meat every two or three days: at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after having washed it in several waters, drain it for four-and-twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it in a saucepan and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take it out and let it drain, and serve it cold the same as a ham. Beef Soup.* — Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces, with six onions, two carrots, celery, leeks, two turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black- pepper, and allspice to your taste; put alj this, with the beef, into a stewpan, without water, over a slow fire for an hour, then pour over it two quarts of boiling water ; let it stew till the meat is tender, and if you have not sufficient soup add more water ; when the beef is tender enough, takeout all the best parts and let the rest stew with the herbs un- til quite a rag, then strain all off’, and add some herbs as the former, stewed in a pan by \hemselves with a little water; the' carrots, &c. must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in may be put into the soup; then let your beef and all be stewed together; hut it must not boil quite ; and be nicely skim- med. Beef Soused,—Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, season with salt and pepper for four days, then roll them up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it be tender, then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place, or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and serve it with sugar and mus- tard. Beef, Spring Garden.—Cut a piece of lean beef into thin slices like Scotch collops, lard it thick with bacon, and put it into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, two or three bay-leaves, aiut a bunch of sweet herbs; bake it; then clear out all the gravy, and fill it up with clarified butter. Beef Steaks d la Bourgeoise.—Lard the steaks here and there with lai ge lar- dons; put them into the pan with chopped parsley, shalots, thyme, laurel, salt, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine ; let them soak two hours, then simmer them till done. You may serve them either hot or cold. Beef Steak broiled.*—Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and ma- rinate them in oil or vinegar with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire ; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, parsley, chopped fine and mixed together with the juice of a lemon; put this prepara- tion into a dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potatoe, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses; some make use of anchovy sauce instead of the parsley. Beef Steaks broiled.—The best steaJis are cut from the middle of the rump; let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a rolling-pin; season them with pepper and salt; let the fire be very brisk and clear, the gridiron very clean; set the dish before the fire upon a chaffing dish to keep hot; turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on pur- pose when they are done enough, lay them in the dish, and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron. Beef Steak broiled, d I’Anglaise,*— 1 repare your steaks the same ns for Steaks sauti au via de Madere, then rub them with pepper and salt; dip them in melted butter, and then rub them with bread crumbs; broil them, and serve with a maitre d'hbtel. Beef Steaks /Wei/.—Pepper and salt