228 EGG EGG Rub tliem through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them witii a tahlespoon- ful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table spoonsful of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed to- gether, by degrees add a tetispoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and a tea- spoonful of made mustard ; v/ben these are smoothly united, add very gradually three teaspoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly in- corporated with them ; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Eggs au BouUion.*—Put the yolks of four and two whole eggs into a saucepan, with five ladiesful of consomme, let them stand till well mixed, and then strain them; butter your moulds lightly, fill them with the preparation, and leave them to set. Serve with good consomme reduced. You may prepare this dish with any other sauce you please. Egos d la Btmrgeoise.*—Spread some butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, on that lay thin slices of Gruyere Cheese, then eight or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook gently till done. Eggs aiul Bread.*—Put half a handful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread has imbibed all the cream; then break ten eggs into it, and having beaten them up together, fry it like an omelet. Eggs Broiled.*—Make a small paper- case, in which put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, a little parsley and scal- lion, set the case on a gridii-on, and when the butter begins to melt, break an egg into it, add salt, pepper, and bread- crumbs ; do this over a gentle clear fire, and pass a salamander over it to colour it on the top. Eggs Bultered. — Take yolks and whites, set ihem over the fire with a bit of butter, a little pepper and salt, stir them a minute or two, when they grow tliickish, and a little turned in small lumps, pour them on a buttered toast. Eggs Buttered.—Beat together the yolks and whites of four or five eggs, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin,and then put that in boiling water, keep stirring it till it is melted ; then put the melted butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, hold the saucepan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it ueginsto warm, pour it into abasin and back, then again hold it over the fire, keeping it consUntly stirring in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to eat with salt fish or red herrings. Eggs au Caramel.*—'Lake the yolks of a dozen hard eggs, bruise them in a sauce- pan, with some powder sugar, three al- mond biscuits, and half a glass of cream; make these into a paste, of which form little eggs, dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. Eggs in Caul.—Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg within it, with a little ready prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter, roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in ihe oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking dish: serve with any sauce you please. Eggs and Cream.*—Boil half a pint of cream till reduced to half the quantity; then add eight eggs, season them with salt and pepper, boil them together, till the eggs are partly hard; pass a salaman- der over the top, and serve. Eggs a la Creme.*—Put into a saure- pan a little butter, a spoonful of flour, some shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper and nutmeg, mix them together, add a glass of cream; when it lias boiled up once, pour it upon a dozen hard eggs cut in slices, heat all up together, and serve. Eggs Croquettesqf.*—Cut the yolks and whites of a dozen and half of bard boiled eggs into dice, and put them into a sauce- pan, and pour on them a cream sauce, with the addition of a little shred parsley and scallions, stir them well together over the fire, and then set it to cool; when cold pour a large teaspoonful on a plate, form it like other croquettes, roll them in bread-ciumbs, dip them inbeaien eggs, bread them a second time, and fiy them in a hot pan; drain, aud serve them. Eggs d la Duchcssc.*—Bo\\ a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange- flower, candied lemen-peel. marchpane, and burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised; whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and then take two or three spoonsful of them at a tinie, and peach them in the cream ; drain, and lay ih^m on a dish, so as to resemble egg.s poached without the yolks. When all the whites are thus used, put the cream on the fire, and reduce it. and as the dish is sent to t.able, add the yolks to the cream, and pour the sauce gently over the eggs. ; EoGsd / Ean.*—I’utapint of water,