I J E L ( 29o ) J EL porated, pour it into a mould, and finish with ice as iellv printunniere. Jelly (i-VKiif).*—Clarify half a pound of sugar, but tlie instant before it is quite clear, put in a small quantity of cochineai; then strain, and mix with it an ounce ol clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lemons; add to this the fruit of which your jelly is to be composed; stir them together lightly, ppur the jelly into a mould quickly,and put the mould on ice. Observe that the sugar and isinglass should be no more than lukewarm when mixed together. These jellies may be made of any kind of fruit, or the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or cedrats. Jelly, Gloucester.—Take an ounce of rice, the same of sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo root; simmer with three pints of water, till reduced to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; when you use it, serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. Jelly, Italian.—Make a wine or calf’s foot jelly, with which half fill your mould; when thoroughly set, take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut this into slices, and after- wards cut it with a middling-sized plain round cutter; these pieces of cream lay in a circle round your jelly; when all are arranged, very gently put in jelly enough to cover them ; when that is set, fill up your mould, and when wanted, turn it out the same as any other jelly. Jelly, Ivory Dust.*—Boil one pound of ivory-dust in five pints of water till I reduced to a quart, strain it, and add to it one quart more water to the dust, boiled till reduced to a pint, then strain it; when strained, squeeze in some 1 orange and lemon-juice, and sweeten ac- I cording to taste. Jelly, to Keep.—Take a leg of beef, I and two shins, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal; chop it all to pieces; one or two old cocks or hens, skinned, and two calf’s i feet; put all these into ten quarts of I water, and boil them down to a strong t jelly_, skim it well; add some salt, and ’ run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Jelly, Mosaic.—Boil half a pint of cream; when it boils, infuse the peel, i either of an orange or a lemon, accord- \ ing as you wish to decorate the jelly with ! eithei*. When the cream has imbibed 1 the flavour of the fruit, sweeten it with a ■i little sugar. Beat up with the cream 1 the yolks of four eggs, lay it on the fire t to thicken, and then put in some isin- I glass that has been previously melted. I' Strain the whole through a hair sieve, h and put it, well covered, on some ice, * that it may get quite firm. Take the >1 would which you intend to use, brush it lightly all over with oil, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with sniall tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent the decoration from sticking on. Decorate the bottom first, then the sides; then only put the mould over ice. Next pour a little orange jelly lightly, not to injure the decoration, and let it get thick. When the orange jelly is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice, then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the sides; let the preparation be made firm again; mind the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets, till the bottom has been first made firm; then gradually ascend the top. Cover and surround the mould with ice. When you wish to serve, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Be careful that none of the jelly sticks to the sides before you touch the bottom of the mould. Tiien rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. Were not all these precautions attended to, the two colours would melt and mix together. This jelly looks beautiful when it is well made. This jelly can only be well made in. winter time; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard ; then it would not be so good. But if you should be particularly desirous of making it during the summer season, you must work it in a very cold place. Jelly Printanniere.*—Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, as directed for each ; and having prepared your fruits or flowers according to the recipes, (see the various articles), mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm ; strain the mixture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould; take about ten pounds of ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, in which immei.se the mould for three hours: then take out the mould, dip it in hot water as quick as possible, and then turn the jelly into a dish for table. Jelly Ribband. — Boil four calf’s feet without the great bones, in ten quarts of water, three ounces of hartshorn, three ounces of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace; boil till it is reduced to two quarts ; strain it through a flannel bag, and when it has stood twenty-four hours, scrape oil'all the fat very clean, slice the jelly, add the whites of SIX eggs beaten to a froth, and boil the whole up, and strain it through a flannel bag. Then pour it into small high