{ 421 ) POT POT Chantilly cream; add to these the whites ( of twelve eggs, whipped firm; then pour >i this preparation into a croustade, like I other French custards, put it into a mo- I derate oven, and bake it for two hours, i or two and a half if necessary. Glaze I and serve it. Potatoes {Frangipane of). * — Take I some steamed potatoes, (let them be 1 thoroughly done); pare, and pound i them perfectly; then put them into a ; basin, add some whole eggs, a little biit- ; ter, the rind of a lemon grated, some 1 bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity I of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix these together well, and use this frangipane . according to the usual directions. Potatoes Fried for Garniture.*—Cut I about forty potatoes either into balls or corks, wash and drain them. Clarify a pound of fresh butter, and when melted, I pour it over the potatoes (which have II been put into a frying-pan); take care I, that they do not lay one on another; cover the pan, and set it on a brisk fire, II but lessen it afterwards, and then put ii hot coals on tlie lid; stir the potatoes ii occasionally until they are of a nice gold l[ colour, then drain, and fry them in a ii little butter and veal glaze. Observe, !1 the potatoes should be dressed only just before they are wanted. ' PoTATOE Fritters.*— Wash and pare I some potatoes; cut them into slices, [( which soak for half an hour in a little || brandy, with the rind of a lemon; then || drain, dip them in a good batter, and fry I them of a nice colour; drain them again, |l place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar ri over, and serve them hot. I Potatoes (Gateau of).*—Pare as many Ii steamed, or vyell-boiled dry potatoes, and h pound theni in a mortar, add butter and 1 milk in wliich sugar has been dissolved : when the potatoes are well beaten and mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil it; then pour it into a basin to cool; then I put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of g four eggs beaten to a snow, and two Iq Spoonsful of orange-flower water. Take ; i a saucepan, butter the inside well, and i| sprinkle the sides over witli bread ti crumbs, and pour in the above prepara- [' tion; set it on the stove with hot asiies II on the lid, and let it remain till done, II and nicely coloured, when it may be S. turned on a dish. I Potatoes A la Lyonnaise.*—Cut some tb boiled potatoes into slices, which put into a saucepan, and pour over them a clear I puree of onions ; set tliem on the fire, fe and keep them hot, without letting them w boil; add pepper, salt, a small quantity of stock, and a very little vinegar. Serve very hot. Potatoes A la Maftre Hav- ing boiled your potatoes as usual, pare, and cut them into slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and scallions, salt and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and then fry them lightly in a little butter and sweet herbs; if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoonful of water. Serve with a little lemon juice. Potatoe Pie. — Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes, until the dish is filled. Potatoes A la ProvenQale.*—Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, cut into several pieces, and three des- sert spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon, parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of flour, salt and whole pepper; throw some potatoes into boiling water, in a few minutes take them out, pare and cut them into four or six pieces, according to their size ; put these pieces into the but- ter, &c., set the saucepan on the fire, stirring them constantly, taking care not to let them boil. Serve with a little lemon-juice squeezed over. Potatoe Pudding. * — Having tho- roughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, peel and pound them well, then mix them with half a pound of melted butter, the same of powder-sogar, and six eggs ; beat the whole well, then add a handful or two of flour, and a glass of white wine; stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. Potatoe Pudding.* — To two pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed, when cold, add three eggs well beaten, two ounces of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pint of new milk ; add lemon-peel if you please. Bake it. I’oTATOES {Puree of).*—Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possihle, moistening them with good stock. Rub them ihiougha sieve into a saucepan, and dilu'e the purie with more stock ; set it on the fite, and stir it till it is of the requisite con- sistence, wliich should be tlrat of thick cream ; serve the puree witli fried bread round, and browned with the salaman- der. Potatoes (Quenelles of).* — Put some of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes t(i roast; when done, take out all the flowery parts, which put into a mortar, 2 0