SAL SAL ( 442 ) bbiled potatoes, and a red beet-root, Into slices lialf an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long ; cut tliese again into long tr-iangles; place tliem on a dish alternately ; that is, the slices of potatoe with the point upward, and the beet-root between each, with the point downwards; set tlietn round the dish, so as to form a crown six inches in diameter ; to give it consistence, pour over tlie bottom of the dish some aspicjelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, ierce the centre of each, and in these oles stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrots, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces, an inch and a half long; dip the champignons into aspic jelly, a little set, and place them alternately bn the beet-ipot; when all are done, pour yeur macedoine of carrots, &c., into the crown; mask it lightly with a white mag^tionnaise, in the centre fix a fine let- tuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALLY Lunns.*—Take three quarts of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt; make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (co- vered), for an hour to rise, and bake, in a quick oven. The above may be made into small cakes. SALMAGUNDY. — This is a very pretty small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colourof the ingredients are varied. For this purpose, chop separately the white part of a cold chicken, or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs, and the same number of whites of eggs ; a large hand- ful of pnr.--ley, six anchovies, some beet- root, pickled red cabbage, harn, and grated tongue, or any thing well fla- voured, and of a good colour. Put a saucer or china bason into a round dish, or a smaller dish into a long one, then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and groafing smaller towards the top; making clioice of such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour; spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need not, unless you please, put any thing in the dish, as thesalmagundy may be laid in rows, or nut into the half wliites of eggs, whicli may be made to stand upright by cutting otF a little bit at the round end. In the latter case, caQh half egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON.—-When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is still'. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. Salmon Baked. — Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick ; make a forcemeat as follows ; — take equal quantities of the flesli of salmon, and flesh of eel, with a few mushrooms; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and clovee, beat ail together till very fine; boil the crumb of a small roll in same milk, beat with it four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs; take the skin from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish, cover eacli slice witli the force- meat, pour melted butter over them, and then strew bread-crumbs all over; lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour, then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter, with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon. Salmon en Buril.*—Take a moderate sized salmon, lay it open, and take out the bone; cut away the thin part, the head, and the tail, so as to make each side quite straight. Have ready a que- nelle-farce of smelts, spread a layer of this over each slice, which roll up in the form of a barrel, make the ends of it quite smooth, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and roil them up in a sheet of paper, place them on a baking-pan, pour on them a marinade cuite, and bake them. When done, take ofl' the papers carefully, so as not to injure the form; d'sh and serve with a ragofit of carp- roes ; or, if better liked, glaze and serve witli sauce piquante. Salmon au Bleu. — Drain a salmon without ripping up the stomach, wash and thoroughly' dry it; put it into a fish-kettle, and let it stew for two hours, more or less, according to the size of the fish, in a good marinade ; let the court- bouillon boil slowly, otherwise the fish will never do through. Before serving, drain it, place on a clean napkin, and gpu-nish with parsley. SalmonBof/rrf.—Salmon requires being well boiled, as it is very unwliolcsonie when underdone. Some boil horse-radish in the water; fried smelts may be laid round it ; garnish with horse-radish and sliced lemon. Serve with anchovy-sauce aud plain butter. Salmon Boiled.— Run a pack-thread tbrougli the tail, the centre of tlic body, and the head, to bring the fish to the form of the letter S ; put it into a kettle of cold spring water with plenty of salt,