M U T 348 ) M U T pix mutton rumps, and boil them for a riuivrier of an hour; then take them out and cut them in two, and put them into a stewpan with lialfa pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little cayenne pepper, and salt; cover them close, and stew till they are tender; then take out the onion, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, put in a little roux a.n6. thejiiice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Gar- nish with horse-radish and beet-root. Mutton Rumps (Entree of),— Clean the rumps, and braise them till nearly done; then fry slips of bread the same breadth and length ; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Par- mesan cheese; and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis, mixed together; strew at the top some line bread-crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little con- sommi thickened with the yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than vvill cover them ; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up and let them stand to cool; put into the gravy a quarter of a pound of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; let it boil till the rice is very thick ; take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beat up, and then roll them in bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel grated, and a very little thyme ; fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing, lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried, drain them; pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and put in the i ice; stir it all together round the pan, and then lay the rice in a dish ; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the narrow ends to meet in the middle ; boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps, blurroN Ru7tips Mannaded. — Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in a pan, in the mari- nade liquor for one night, then pass them in butter till nearly done; lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with yolk of egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good seasoned cullis sauce, witlt ketchup in it. Mutton (Saddle of) Baked.*—Vet- pare and dress a saddle of mutton, in every respect as for a remove (see that article); when cold, take ofl' tlie skin, trim and season it with pepper and salt; brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool; put a quar- ter of a pound of butter into a basin, break ten eggs on it, add pepper and salt; beat them together well, and wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread; put the saddle on a baking-tin, and put it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of the mutton. Mutton (Saddle of) Braised.*—Take the half of a saddle ot mutton, and bone it, season the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up to the form of a long square, tie it up and braise it for two hours and a half; when ready for table, raise the skin and glaze it; put in the dish any jjtrrec or sauce you please. Mutton (Saddle o/l Breaded a I'Ar.- glaise.*—Take a saddle of mutton, and braise it as directed (see this joint Braised), and when done, season with pepper and salt, dip it in melted butter and bread it, then let it cool. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, as soon as it is melted, mix with it three eggs and a little salt; soak the saddle com- pletely in this, roll it well in bread- crumbs, give it a good form, and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner broil it slowly, colour the top with a sala- mander. Serve the saddle with a clear gravy. Mutton (Saddle of) as a Remove.*— Take a whole saddle of mutton, let it be fat and well covered with skin; bone the ribs to the spine, season the udder part w'ith pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; fill each side widi the meat from a leg of mutton, roll it in, taking care to make both the same size; tie it up, and binise it, adding the ribs and leg-bone, for five hours; then diain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top. and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley; serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. Mutton Sausages.—Take, a pound of the rarest part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it very fine, and season it with popper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, s.>me sweet herbs two anchovies, and a pintol oysters, all chopped very small ; a quarter of a pound of_grated bread, some of the an-