317) LEV LET with two or three carrots, tliree onions, and two cloves; cover them with bacon, pour in some good stock, and simmer them an hour and a half; then drain the lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. Put, alternately, layers of bread-crumbs and lettuces, until all the latter are used ; pour the sauce over them (having strained it); set the dish over the fire, and simmer the whole for some time. Put scarcely any salt to this garbure, but strew pepper between each layer. Lettuces, Garniture o/.*—Take se- veral fine lettuces, pick ofl' the green leaves; wash them well in cold water; and having blanched them in boiling, throw them again into cold water; drain, press, and tie them up. Put the lettuces I into a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, salt, pepper, scallions, thyme, ! basil, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, onions, j and carrots, a glass of white wine, and a i sufficient quantity of either stock or I water to cover them; braise them in this I for several hours over a slow fire. When I wanted, drain them well, and if large, I cut them in two, lengthwise. 1 Lettuces loith &Vauy.*—Wash and ! boil them in boiling water, with some I salt; when done, press and chop them \ip, I and put them into a saucepan with a little 1 flour, dripping, or butter, and gravy; I moisten with stock, and serve. Lettuces, Minced.*—Take as many I lettuce-hearts as you may require; wash ! them well, and blanch them in a little I salt water; when done, put them into ' cold water; when they are sufficiently cooled, put them into a cullender, and press out all the water with your hand ; then mince them small ; put a quarter of a pound ofbutter into a stewpan; then put in the lettuces with salt and pepper; m a few minutes stir in a little flour, add some stock, and stew the whole about a quarter of an hour; then serve it with bread round it. Lettuce Soup.*—Having picked and washed the lettuces, put them into boil- ing water, with a handful of salt, for half an hour: then throw them into cold water; the lettuces being cooled, press I out the water, and tie them up; lay some I slices of veal in a stewpan, then slices of I bacon; place your lettuces on them, coyer them with the same ; put in some onions and carrots_sliced; moisten them with stock, and boil them over a gentle fire for an hour or longer, if necessary ; prepare your bread as usual, and place the lettuces on it. Lettuce Sn;/p.—Take two dozen fine cabbage lettuces, well washed and blanch- ed in salt and water ; when done, take a cullender spoon, and put them in a stew- pan of clear water for a few minutes, place them on a clear hair sieve, and when well strained, they must be cut .across in three pieces, and put in a soup pot with a little sugar and salt; fill it up with good consomme, A set it by the stove to boil gently; skim it well, and clarify it the same as other soups. Lettuces {minced) Soup.*—Pick ofl all the green leaves of the lettuces, chop the hearts small, and toss them up in a little butter, till they are reduced to a pulp; then add your broth or stock, and boil them for an hour; soak your bread as usual, and then finish your soup. Cos lettuces are done in the same manner. Lettuces Stuffed.—This dish is pre- pared, dressed, and served in the same manner as cabbages stuffed. LEVERET.—(See ^m-e.) Leveret d VAnglaise,*—Skin a leve- ret without taking off the paws, which must also be skinned, leave on the nails; then take out the internal parts carefully; scald the ears in the same manner as those of a pig; remove the bitter parts from the liver, pound it with equal quan- tities of butter and panada; mix these with the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, spices ; cut a large onion into dice, toss it up in a little butter; when cold, add it, with a small quantity of dry sage rubbed into powder, to your farce, and fill the leveret; sew it up, and truss it ; fasten it oil the spit, tie slices of bacon, and a but- tered paper over it; roast it about an hour and a quarter ; take off' the paper, and the bacon, before it is quite done; serve it with gravy and currant jelly, and melted butter if you like. Leveret e»Came.*—Take two small, or one good-sized leveret, cut in pieces, as for civet; put into a stewpan a quar- ter of a pound of butter, two ounces of grated bacon, a dozen shalots, as many mushrooms, and some parsley, all chop- ped small; season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice, a clove of gar- lic pounded, and a bay-leaf: put to this a bottle of while wine, and reduce till the herbs give out the butter again ;then put in the pieces of hare, and stew it with fire over and under for half an hour, tiien take them out, and lay them on a dish ; put two spoonsful of reduced espagnole to the herbs, and when pretty thick, pour it oyer the leveret, and leave it to cool; in the meanwhile oil six sheets of paper, on one of which lay thin slices of bacon ; then put the cold leveret in as square a form as you can, with all the seasoning, cover it with bacon, and the five sheets of paper, so folded, over the edges (still preserving the square shape) that none of the seasoning or sauce may escape, tie 2 E 3