434 R A S R A S half of biaiuly, and a quart of water; at the end of that time, distil the infusion : •lissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water ; mix this syrup in the liqueur, filter and bottle. Kh&var.nnY Dumplings, — Take some ■good pufl'paste, roll it out, and spread raspberry jam over it; roll it up, and boil itrather more than an hour; cut it into five slices ; pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. Raspbeiuiy Fritters. — Grate two Na- ples biscuits, or the crumb of a French roll; put to eithera pintofboilingcream. When this is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, lyell beaten; beat all well together with some raspberry juice ; drop tills in very small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; stick them with blanchedalmonds, sliced. RAspBEanv Ice.* — Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield a pound and a half; put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days. Then carefully raise the skin that has formed on tlie top of it, pour off’ tlie juice into another vessel; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils ; if not sufficiently red, put in a root of orkanet, wliich leave in till oj the proper colour; strain the prepara- tion through a sieve; when cold, put it into the sabotiere, and freeze it. See Ice. Raspberry Ice (IFaler).* — Pick and crush as many raspberries as will yield a pound of pulp; put this into a pound of clarified sugar boiled to petit lisse, with the juire of two lemons; mix them loge- tlier well, if too thick add aglass of water, put the preparation into a mould, and freeze it as directed. See Ice. Raspberry Jelly.*—Take two thirds of raspberries, and one third red cur- rants; pick them, press the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar, or any other cool place for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel: weigli It, and pot it, with half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of scum will rise at first, which must all be taken off’; leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a few drops on a cold plate, if it coolsofthe proper consistence for jellies, take itfiom the lire, and whilst hot pour it into p 'ts. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. R,\spBEaniEs to Keep.* — This fruit may be bottled for keeping like cherries. They must not be more than just ripe. Raspberries qf Murchpatie.*—Taken pound of marchpane, the juice of four lemons, a quarter of a pound of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these together with a strong wooden spatula: then add two handsful of flour, and some powder sugar ; when well worked up, roll them into pieces about the size of a linger, cut these into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the top into a point, 80 as to resemble the form of a raspberry: then put them one by one into paper cases, which place in a dry warm 'place, for eight or ten days. At the end of that time, put a portion of syrup of raspberries, a little cochineal, and a small quantity of powder-sugar into a pan ; mix them together with a spoon, and then throw into it a couple of hands- ful of the raspberries; lake the. pan in both hands, and shake it about, so that the raspberries may be equally co- vered with the red syrup; then put sugar a la grele on a large sheet of paper, spread it out a little, and while the rasp- berries are wet with the syrup, throw them into the sugar ; then take the four corners of the paper, shake itabcut well, by wbich means the sugar will adhere to the raspberries in all parts, and give, them a perfect resemblance to the real fruit; take them out carefully one by one, lay them on paper, and pul them in a warm place for some days. These artificial raspberries are of a pleasant flavour, and will keep several years. Raspberry Marmalade.* -— Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, and put the pulp into a sauMpan ; set it on the fire, and stir till it is reduced to half; then pour on the sugar, previously clarified and boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it on the fire, give it a few boils, and then pour it into pots. Raspberries Preserved.*— Take five or si.x pounds of red, bin not too ripe raspberries, pick, and put them into a preserving pan, with an eqii.al weight of clarified sugar, boiled iapetiibouU; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, skim, and pour the whole in',0 a pan till the next day. then drain the fruit, and put it into jars ; put to the syrup about two glasses of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil the sugar to la «<7ppf,.and then pour it over the raspberries; add afterwards, about a spoonful of curr.mt jelly to each pot, .aud when cold, lay on brandy papers, and t e them down. RA.spBEniiY Ratafia.* — Take three pints of raspberry juice, and half a pint of cherry-juii e; dissolve in these a pound and a hall of fine sugar ; let it stand some time, and then add three quarts of the best brandy ; strain it, and when quite