P o U ( 423 ) PUD ij into a mortar, with liaU a pound of pow- 13 der-3ugar, an ounce of oiange-flowers, ti| and two eggs at a time, until five and :j twenty or thirty are used, by wliich time ll the paste will be pf die proper consis- H tence, then pour it into a lightly buttered B tin; put it into a moderate oven, and leave it. In three hours’ time, if the i; poupelin is of a nice gold colour, take it |i out, cut off the top, and with a spoon h rernove all ihe inside, then set it in the h oven to dry. When cold, spread all over l! the interior apricot marmalade, on which i, strew sweet macaroons crushed, then ij turn it on a dish, and serve. _ I Histoire*—Putintoa sauce- 1] pan eight glasses of water, and as many ii ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and ;i as soon as it boils take it off’, and add i; as much sifted flour as will make a stiff i| paste, replace it on the fire, stirring con- II stantly for some minutes to dry; then i' take it out, and make a second quantity j in the same manner, and when that also i: is dried, put both into a mortar, with !: three quarters of a pound of siipr, two ll ounces of orange-flower, and six eggs; |! then beat it up, add six more, and so on 11 until the paste is moistened completely with fifty or sixty eggs; pour this pre- j: paration into a large, well-buttered i] mould of twelve sides, and put it into a iiotoven. In two hours’time the paste i; will rise above the mould, and some parts of it fall over, which, however, is un- ij avoidable, and of no consequence. When ii it has stood three hours and a half, draw I the mould to the opening of the oven, ii and if the top of the poupelin is of a nice f colour, cut it off, and with a large spoon, I take out all the paste from the interior I of the mould, so as to leave a complete i erotistade witliinside, which must remain f. a few minutes to dry; then take it out, f and when nearly cold, fill this croustade N with three pounds of apricot marmalade, l| and over that a pound of sweet macaroons I; crushed; this done, turn the mould over N on a layer of common paste, nearly an II inch larger than the top of the mould, [I which may now be removed. Dissolve i in a bain-marie a pot of apple-jelly, and M another of red curi-ant-jelly, then with a feather cover the twelve sides of the , poupelin alternately with these two jel- lies; then mix t’nem togetlier, and by the same means wash over the other parts of \X\Q poupelin. If you wish to ' ornament it still more, cut out a number ' of leaves of pistachios or green biscuits, which Slick on with apricot marmalade, in such form as you may think proper, I and between them place well-washed dry currants. Serve it as soon as possible after it is decorated. Poupelin d la Rciiie.*—Make a choux paste, with very little butter, and a good deal of flour, dry it as much as possible, and then dilute it again with eggs. Lay your choux very small, and of an equal size, dorez and put them in the oven ; as soon as they are well dried, and of a nice colour, oil the mould you intend to use ; and having clarified and boiled some su- gar to cassc, take up the choux on the end of a skewer, dip them in the sugar, place one in the middle of your mould, and lay the others round it until the in- terior is completely covered, taking care that they touch each other; when done, turn the mould over carefully on a folded napkin, and serve ihe poupelin. PRAWNS.—VVhen in perfection, they have an excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they ai'e firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) parti- cularly. When the prawns are fresh, their colour is very bright; but if stale, they are pale, and clammy to the touch. PaAWNS Buttered.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very little nutmeg, salt and pepper ; sim- mer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. Prawns {Cicrrie of).— See Currie of Lobsters, Prawns in Jelly. — Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish; when it is cold, lay in the prawns, with their backs down- wards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. Prawns to Serve.* — Take a pound and a half of fine prawns, pick and trim them neatly; have ready a deep dish or soup-plate, the centre of which fill witli any kind of salading you please, pro- vided it has no smell; c»ver this with a large napkin, folded square, and the cor- ners turned down, so as to form an octa- gon, leaving no more than the border of the plate or dish visible ; place a hand- ful of nice green parsley on the napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on it. Pudding {Directions /or).—Take the greatest care in boiling of a pudding, that the cloth is perfectly clean, otherwise the outside of the pudding will have a disagreeable flavour; to prevent tliis, tlu*. cloth should always be nicely washed and kept jn a dry place, and when wanted for use, it sliould be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, for fear the ingredients should not mix. When the pudding is done, a pan of 2 0 2