S T U 8 T R ( 460 cause if it becomes cool, it turns inime- diiitely. Stock-FISH d la ProvcnQule*—Prepare a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in pieces. Melt seme butter rolled in flour, in a stewpan,aiid put to it parsley, scal- lions, (?arlic, a glass ofeream, the same of oil, and some Seville orange-peel; as soon as this is well flavoured, put in your fish and toss it up for some time; tlie longer this operation is performed, the better the disn will be. STRAWBERRY {Comprde nf).—This is made in the same manner as Rasp- berries, only that the strawberries do not require being mixed with any other fruit. Strawbehry Conserve.*—Take some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces of sugar; boil this [ofort perle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice; stir them together with a silver spoon, until the conserve begins to whiten and dry, then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the conserve be too white, add a little carmine to the syrup. Strawberry Cream.—Put six ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it througli a sieve; add to it the juice of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little more juice of lemon, and when no more froth will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into glasses ; and place the froth upon it, well drained. Strawberry, lee Cream.—Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, and pass them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon ; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint of cream, and freeze. Strawberry Fritters.—Make a paste with flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chop- ped lemon-peel, whites of egg, beaten up, and a sullicient quantity of white wine to make it pretty soft, and just ready to drop with a spoon ; mix some large straw- berries in it; and drop some of the mix- ture, about the size of a nutmeg, in the hot fritters; w'hen done, take them out carefully, drain them on a sieve, and glaze them with sugar. Strawberry Jam.*—Gather the scar- let strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise tb.em well, and add the juice of other strawberries; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire ; boil it twenty minutes, taking ofV the scum as it rises; pour it into lasses, or jars, and when c Id, tic them Strawberry, Marchpane.*—Take two pounds of sweet al monds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar (boiled petit bottle); crush, and strain the juice of the fruit, which add to the almond paste and syrup; stir the mix- ture well, set it on hot ashes, and am- tinue stirring until the paste is suffici- ently done ; this may be proved by lay- ing a piece on the back of your hand; if it may be removed without its sticking, it is enough ; when cold, spread it over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape you think proper. Strawberries. Preserved in IVine.— Put some very fine large strawlierries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three spoonsful of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira, or good sherry. Strawberry SAerie/.* — Take four- teen ounces of picked strawberries, cru>h them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, with a tea-spoonful of lemon acid, and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mixture two or three hours; put eighteen ounces of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice; squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it. When the sugar is en- tirely dissolved, run the whole through a jelly bag, until perfectly clear; then finish as usual. Strawberries, Sottffle, Parisian of.*~ Take a basket of very fine strawberries, pick, and crush them, and then rub them through a sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a half of powder sugar, stir them together as iighlly as possible ; then mix them with the strawberries. Pour the whole into a croiistade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve Strawberry Tart. — Pick, and put into a basin two qu.art.s of the best scarlet strawberries, then add to them half a pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and hiilfapintof madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons ; mix these well together, without breaking the slraw- berries, and put them in>o a puff paste, previously baked; be careful to keep them very cool. STURG KON.—Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the irrain even, with a few blue veins, and tlie skin tender. Sturgeo.n, Baked.*—Clean, and take the skin from a small sturgeon ; split it along the belly, without separating it. Lay it in a large baking-dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs;