BEE (46) BEE Beef Brains en Sauce Aurora.*—WaW wash four beef brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine; when they are done, divide them into sixteen pieces, snliitintj each lialf brain Uirough the middle; dress them on a dish in the form of a crown, and serve with Aurora sauce. Beef Drains au Deurre Noir.*—Well wash your brains to cleanse them from the blood, the skin, and fibres, that are about the brains; then put them into lukewarm water to soak for two hours ; after which put them into a stewpan be- tiveen slices of bacon, with bay leaves, sliced onions,carrots, parsley, scallion, a glass of white wine, and some stock; let the whole simmer for half an hour; drain them, and serve with black butter, poured all over, and fried parsley in the middle. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Cook some brains in a marinade, then leave them to drain; serve them on a dish with sauce au beurre noir, and garnish with fried parsley. Brains may be served with any sauce you please. Beef Brains Fried.*—Let your brains be properly marinated, then leave them to drain, make a preparation with warm water, a little butter and salt, some flour, a spoonful of oil, and the whites of eggs whipped to snow, mix all together to the consistence of batter, dip your brains into this batter, and then fry them a nice brown colour, when fried let them drain on a dry cloth ; garnish with fried parsley. B VIETBrainsen Marinade.*—Well wash your brains, scald them, and put them into a marinade; then make some baiter, dip your brains into it, and then fry them, taking care that the batter is not too hot. If it so happens that you wish to fry brains which have been previously dressed, you must cut them in pieces, season them with salt and pepper, then put them into .just suflicient vinegar to cover them ; afterwards drain them, put them into batter and fry them. Beef Brains en Matelotte.*—Have ready a little Spanish sauce, add to it a glass of red or white wine, some small onions browned in butter, and some tnusbrooms, then cut your brains into pieces, and put them into this prepara- tion,pive itasingle boil, and then serve. Garnish with artichoke bottoms, cray- fish, crusts of bread, and sweetbreads. Beef Brains d Ut sauce piqi/ante.*— Prepare and dress your brains tbe same as for Brains au beurre noir. Drain them, put them on a dish, and pour a sauce piquante all over them. Beef Brains d la Paulette *—Well wash some brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine, then make boiling hot a reduced German sauce, adding some mushrooms, some parsley, and a quarter of a pound of but- ter, the juice of a lemon, some whole pepper, stirring it well to keep it from oiling, sauce the brains with this prepa- ration, and serve very hot. Beef Brains d la Paulette.* — Put some brains into a stewpan, with a suf- ficient quantity of butter; sprinkle in a little flour, moisten with a little water, add somesmallonions, champignons,and a bunch of sweet herbs; season according to taste, and let it cook over a gentle fire ; when ready to serve, thicken with tbe yolks of eggs beat up with the juice of a lemon. Beef Brains au Soleil.*—Well wash your brains, blanch them and cook them in a marinade of white wine. Then cut them in halves, put them in a dish, sauce and mash them with a good German sauce, well reduced, and add a little of the marinade, and a few sweet herbs, <i papiltotes. When the brains are cold, egg and bread them : then fry them; when fried, arrange tliem on a dish in form of a crown, and serve with clear aspic sauce. Beef <t la Brm'se.—Take two or three ribs of beef, cut away only the fleshy part that is next the chine, and take away all the fat, lard it with pretty large lardons of bacon, seasoned with spices, sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a small quantity of mushrooms, and truf- fles, shred very small. Having larded the beef, tie it into a neat form with packthread, and put it into a stewpan, having previously lined the bottom of the stewpan with thin slices of fat ba- con, and over them lay slices of lean beef about an inch thick, beaten well and seasoned with spice, sweet herbs, onions, lemon peel, bay leaves, salt and pepper; then put in your beef, laying the fleshy side downwards that it may take the belter relish of the seasoning; then season the upper part as you did the lower, and lay over it slices of beef, and over them slices of bacon, as you did at the hottom ; then cover the stew- pan and close it well all round the edge of the cover with paste ; then put fire on the cover of your stewpan as well as under. When the beef is sufficiently stewed take it up. and let itdrain a little, then lay it in a dish, and pour the fol- lowing ragout upon it. While your beef is stewing make a ragout as follows. Take vetil sweet-