CUR CUR 204 on it some boiling water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other ren- net. CURRANT^ Cakes.—Pick and wash the currants, either white or red ; to two quarts of currants, put one pint of water ; when boiled, run the juice through a jcily bag, do not press the hag; to one quart of Juice put three pounds of sugar ; boil up the juice, and strew in the sugar; pour it into glasses, dry it in a store till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on plates. CuRR.iNTS, Conserve of.*—Take the seeds from two pounds of red currants, and put them on the fire in a silver pan, to dry them ; then press them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stirring constantly until you can see the bottom of the pan ; then, having dis- solved and boiled three pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on the fruit, stirring continually; in a short time take it ofl’, stirring it as before until it bubbles ; then pour it into moulds. Currant Cream.—Brui.se some cur- rants that are thoroughly ripe in boiled cream; put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste; then strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. Strawberries or raspberriesj may be done in the same way. It is best to sweeten the fruit before you put in the cream, which should he almost cold be- fore the fruit is put to it, else the cream is liable to curdle. Currants (Black) Drops. — Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire ; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve, over an earthen pan; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, put it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours; keep stirring it all the time with your spatula, or it will hilrn; put in two pounds and a half of pow- dered sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pewter sheets or plates, in little drops, from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry, then talce them off with a knife. Cti'RRANTS (Beil), Fromase Bnvarois of.*—Take the seeds from a pound of very sweet red currants, and a quarter of a pound of raspberries; press them through a fine sieve ; mix with the juice half a pound of fine sugar,and six drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set, stir in a plate of whipped cream, and finish as directed. See Fromage Bnvurois. Currants (lo /ce).—Take Iresb cur- rants in bunches, and have ready the ■white of an egg, well beaten to froth, dip them in, lay them abroad, sift double re- fined sugar pretty thick over them, and let them dry in a stove or oven. Currant lees.—Boil two pounds of red currants a moment with a quarter of a pound of raspberries ; rubthem through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved before icing. Currant Ices. — Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through a sieve; then take clarified su- gar, boil it to a very high degree, add it to your currant juice, and, if you choose, .squeeze in the juice of four lemons, it will make it more mellow; strain them through the sieve a second time, put them in the. icing pot, and finish the same as all other ices. Currant Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, with half a gill of syrup, squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom.. Currant fFrey/i.! Ice Cream.— Take one pint oj currants, pass them through a sieve, with five ounces of powdered su- gar, and a pint of cream, then freeze it according to custom. Currant IVater Ice.—Take a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water; then freeze it rich. Currant (Fres/iJ IVater Ice.—Take a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve; then add to them four ounces of powdered sugar, and one pint of water ; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant (Black) Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Currant (ZJ/«c/5‘) IVater 7cc.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water ; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant .Tam (Black).—Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are full ripe, pick them from the stalks, w.ish them well in a basin, and to every ponnd of currants, put a pound of double re- fined sugar, beaten and sifted ; put them into a preserving pan, Imil them h.alfan hour, skim, and keep them stirring all tl'.e time: then put them into pots ; when cold, put brandy paper oyer, and lie while paper over all.