384 PEA PEA this is called the bois d C-goutler ; six or eight tin plates about tlie size of a sheet of letter-paper. For the best pastilles, take a pound of double-refined sugar reduced to an im- palpable powder ; sift it through a tammy on a sheet of wliite paper, put four or five spaonaful of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a little orange-flower water, and beat it well with tlie larger stick, until the preparation is sufficiently thin to run from the stick without being clear; if it be so, more sugar must be added. Put the pan over a chafing-dish filled with live coals, and let it stand (stirring constantly) till it boils ; then take it off the chafing di.sh, add two more spoons- Jul of sugar, work it up well, scrape away whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it aside, and take the smaller stick in your right hand, hold the pan in your left (slanting) over one of the tin- plates; the sugar will, by these means, flow to the lip, then strike tlie point of the stick into the lip of the pan, which action will separate the liquid, so that each time the stick strikes the lip a sin- gle drop of the preparation will fall on the tin ; a little practice will be neces- sary before this operation can be perform- ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. is used, replenish the pan and pro- ceed as above directed, until you have as many pastilles as you may require. When cold and hard, remove them from the tins witli your hand, and keep them in boxes in a dry place. You may, if you please, colour the pastilles, taking care to perfume them with a correspond- ing odour. Pastilles, Common.*—These are made in the same manner as the best sort, the difference consists in the materials, (which are a quarter of a pound of powder to three quarters of a pound of sugar) and the perfumes are omitted. PASTILLAGES.* — Put two ounces of well-washed gum dragon into an earthen pan, with as much clear hot water as will cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep out the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours; then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into a marble mortar, and add to it as much starch and sugar (both in powder) as the gum water will contain ; pound these ingre- dients well, and strain them through a tammy into a pan which keep covered with a damp cloth. This p.astillage is used to form the ornamental parta of pastry and confectionary, such as tem- ples, baskets, &c., and may be tinired of the requisite shades, by mixing with it any of the colouring materials. PEACHES, Charlotte of* — Take twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them in halves, and scald them in a light sy- rup ; then drain and cut each half into three pieces (lengthwise) of equal thick- ness ; put these into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and half the quantity of warm butter; fry them lightly, and having prepared your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte), n’hen in the dish for table, cover it completely with the syrup reduced to lanappe, and serve immediately. Peaches in a Cmnpote. — Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, peel them, then set them on the fire in a sugar-pan, witli a suflicient quantity of thick clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done; then take them out in a basin, put in the kernels to the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches; serve them in a deep hot dish. Peach Cream.—The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, butinstead of running it through a sieve, rub the whole through a tamrny, and make use of less isinglass; put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. Peach Fritters.*—Take a dozen small ripe peaches, pare and cut them in halves, soak them in half a glass of brandy, and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon : in two hours time take them out ami dip them, one by one^ into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, with which gl.vze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gi'os sucre. Nectarine and apricotfritters are made in the same manner. Peach Jelly. — Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones and peel them; set a pint of smooth cla- rified sugar, diluted with water, on the fire ; when it has boiled and been skim- med, put in the peaches, the kernels should be broken and put in with them; let them boil very gently for ten minutes, then take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readi- ness for garnishing the jelly ; let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer; wliile they are boiling take three, lemons, cut oil’ the nnd, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in abasin, pass the liquor of the ;>eaches into it, and then the isingla.'s, running it through the sieve two or three times, in order to mix it well; fill the mould