LAR L AR 308 buttered paper, to prevent their drying whilst baking. When done, place them in a dish, drain ofl' all the fat, squeeze lemon-juice, and pour a little espagnole over them. Larks en Chtpolata<*—Have ready some roasted chesnuts, mushrooms, sau- sages, and slices of streaked bacon; have a little butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns, put in the sausages; as soon as they are done, put in eight or ten larks; when they are pretty firm, take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms, give them a few boils; then stir in a spoonful of flour, pour on them a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sausages, and larks, with the chesnuts ; these must only boil once ; then take them out, and serve them. Larks d la Ghioise.*—Toss up a few di’y mushrooms in a little lard, moisten them with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of champagne; simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Parmesan cheese on a dish that will bear the fire ; mix a small quan- tity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese ; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on it, and set it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour. Larks au Gratin.—Pick and bone a dozen and a half of fat larks; season them with salt and pepper, stufl'them with a farce, put some of the farce in a dish, lay the larks on it with fried bread between each, lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it into the oven for twenty mi- nutes; then drain oft'the fat, and serve with a well-seasoned espagnole, \j\ws.s, in Jelly.—Put several into the jelly in what manner you tliink best, taking care that tliey lie separate._ You may do any small birds you please in this manner. Larks in a Minute.*—Put some but- ter, slices of streaked bacon, and a few sausages, into a stewpan; wlien quite hot, put in eight or ten larks ; take tliem out again as soon as they are firm; pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mushrooms; give them aboil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of wiiite wine, a little water, very small quantities ofpenper and salt; in a few mi- nutes put the larks in again ; give the whole one boil, and then serve them. Lark Pie d la Pit/iivier.s.*—Take five or six dozen of larks, pick and singe them; split open the backs, take out the intestines and mince them; take a pound and a half of good farce, and hav- ing pounded the mince with it, season, and stuff'the larks with it. Make a raised crust, at the bottom of which put a layer of the farce ; ivrap each lark in a thinslice of ham, and place them on it, with a bit of butter; cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bay-leaves; put on the top-crust, and bake the pie for two or three hours, then take it out, and let it stand till cold. Larks aicxPoires.—Pickthe larks, and truss them as closely cis possible ; cut off" one leg; season them with pepper and salt; make a forcemeat as follows:— Take a veal sweetbread, as much suet, some mushrooms, and some morels, a little lemon-peel, and some sweet herbs ; chop them very fine ; mix them with the yolkof an egg ; wrap every lark in some of this forcemeat, and shape it like a pear, leaving the leg for the stalk ; wash them over with the yolk of au egg, and strew them over with bread-crumbs; bake them in a moderate oven of a fine brown, and serve them without sauce. Larks d laProven<}ale.*—Y\cV, singe, and empty the larks ; mince a few truf- fles and morels, put them into a stewpan with a glass of consomme, half a glass of whi te wine, salt, and pepper; boil these for about a quarter of an hour, then put in your larks, and simmer them slowly for five and forty minutes; put in a little butter worked with flour, and stir it fre- quently to thicken it. Larks {RagoiU of).—Fry your lar'ks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few truffles and mushrooms; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. If there is any fat skim it oft'; put to it some lemon-juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. Larks, Ragout of.—Pick, singe, and bone the larks; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, aslicc of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut in pieces; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt; when the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the ham, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a cullis. Larks Raised Pic, hot.—Mak"e a raised crust in the usual way, lay sonie/nrce at the bottom of it, place some harks (boned) on it, fill up the pie with the same, cover and bake it When done, take off the