AM ( 301 ) LAM tiicn trim them so that the whole of the lardona may be seen; have ready an as- pic mould, in whicli ia some of the jelly, set; lay the cutlets, and a piece of tongue d /’ecur/a<ealternately on it, encouronne, put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, not to displace the cutlets; when you find the jelly is set, fill the mould : set it on ice ; turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, pour into the well or hollow part a cold Llanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. Lamb Cutlets en Chemises.*—Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with a farce composed of fat livers, breasts of fowl or game, streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumby of bread soaked in cream; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon ; spread Cat farce on them, lay a cutlet on each slice, roll it up, and tie it; bread these carefully, and roast them before a mode- rate fire, basting them with their own fat. Lamb’s Cutlets d la Constance.*—C\xi, and trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, put them into atossing pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of espagnole, two ladiesful of consommi ; half an hour be- fore they are sent to table, set the cutlets over a brisk fire, move them about to prevent their sticking; when the liquor is reduced to a jelly, take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish e.7i couronne, tak- ing care they are covered with the jelly. Make a ragofit of livers, cocks’TCombs, and kidneys, put them'.into some becha- inelle, with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the Qourmine of cutlets, and serve instantly. La.mb Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, across the grain, and put them into a stewpan. Make a sufficient quantity of good stock with the bones, shank, &c.to cover the cutlets, put it into the stew- pan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace lied m a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim oil the fat. and take out the sweet herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, season it with salt, and a little cayenne pepper ; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; some forcemeat balls, the yolks of three eggs, beat up in half a pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, and lay them on a dish. Pour the sauce over them ; garnish with beet-root and lemon- Lamb’s Acrrs Stuffed.*—Take a dozen, lamb’s ears, soak, and scald them; vyhen cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a blunc for an hour and a half, drain and fill them with a farce cuite, put the ears into melted butter, then roll them in bread-crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper, beat all up together, dip the ears into this, then roll them again in bread-crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; take care your pan is not too hot. Drain the ears well, and serve them on fried parsley. Lamb’s Ears with Sorrel.—Take about a dozen of lamb’s ears, (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them till tender. Take a large handful of sorrel, chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of slock, with a small bitof butter. Pour in a small ladle of cnllis, some nutmeg grated, and a little pepper and salt, stew itaminute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. Lamb, Epieramme o/.*—Take the fore- quarter of a lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured; dress it (tbe neck) in the same manner as shoulder of lamb with cucumbers (see that article), and when done, press it between two dishes to make it smooth ; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets; make them all of the same size and shape (oval), rub them all over with a'sauce d I’atelel., dip them in melted butter ; bread, and lay thern on a dish ; cut, and trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a pan with melted butter over them : take the shoulder (which has been roasted) cut off all the meat, mince, and make it into a hlanquette; keep it hot in the bain marie. Just before dinner time, broil the pieces of the neck, fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them alternately on a disb en couronne, in the centreof which pour the blanqziette, and serve the whole immediatily. Lamb’s Feet en Cartouches.*—Prepare some sweet herbs enpapillotes, and hav- ing conked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot, give them two or three boils; squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces ol paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; rub oil over ihe inside, lay the feet on the pieces of oiled paper, with the herbs put round and in the liollow parts, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, over wliich fold the paper so as to enclose them completely; broil them thus over