MAC ( 323 ) MAC pieces, boil and drain it, dress it in a cmisonniiC-, similar to that for mock tur- tle soup; pour it into your tureen, and scri’e grated parmesan separately. MACAaoNi Pudding.—Take an ounce or tivo of the pipe sort of macaroni, and simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of almond-water, and half a glass of raisin wine: lay a nice paste round the edge of the dish, and pul it in the oven to bake. If you choose you may put in a layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam : in this case you must not put in the al- mond-water, or ratafia, you would other- wise add to flavour it. Macaroni (to Seroe).—Simmer it in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a good deal of cheese, then over that put bread grated very fine. AVarm some but- ter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs, then put the dish in a dutch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separate crumbs, and look light. Macaroni (to Serve).—Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk, and half of veal or mutton stock, till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, put to it the yolkof anegg, beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; brown it nicely with the salamander. Macaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stewpan. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then put it to the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, but do not let it boil; serve it with the crust of French roll, cut into small pieces. Macaroni Slewed.—Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till nearly done; then strain it, and add a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of the essence of ham, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenne pepper and salt; mix them over a fire for hve minutes, then put it on a dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, smooth it over with a knife, and colour it with a very hot sala- mander. Macaroni, Timlale o/.*—Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands ; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, cover the tope with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each); put the ffwi- baks into a warm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour ; then turn them on a dish, and serve. Macaroni Timbale of au Chasseur.*— Prepare the. macaroni as for the tim- bale, putting filets of larks, dressed in espagnole travaille, and a fumei of game, instead of the veloutc and gravy. The rest of the operation is the same as tim- bak of macaroni. Macaroni Timbale of a IdMariniere.* —Cut the filets of a middling sized sole, and fry them lightly in butter; blanch two carp roes, and take about a dozen very red cray-fish tails; prepare your macaroni as directed (see timbale of macaroni), with the addition of two spoonsful of bechamel maigre, and four ounces of cray-fish butter, and only half the usual quantity of plain butter. When done, put abouta quarter of it in the timr- bale, and on it the two carp roes, half the cray-fish tails, and as many fine white mushrooms; cover these with a third of the macaroni, upon which lay the filets of sole, the remainder of the tails, and six white mushrooms. Pour the rest of the macaroni on this, and finish as directed. See the recipe above- mentioned. Macaroni Tourte au Zt'p/ryr.—Scald about half a pound of macaroni; drain, and then boil it in some good stock; when quite tender, add to it a proper quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, and veal cullis, put it into a tourte auziphyr (see the article), and serve. MACAROONS. — Take a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a little rose-water to pre- vent their oiling; add a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to the above; beat all together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop the mixture over it separately, the size of a shilling, or smaller; sift over them a lit- tle sugar, and bake them. Macaroons Bitter Ice Cream.*—Take a quarter of a pound of hitter macaroons, pound them, and having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar, in the usual way (see ice cream); add the macaroon