( 262 ) GAT GAT buttfir it by means of a sponge, being careful that it is done in all parts, other- wise the qdteaumW adhere to it; place the mould in it moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly, if not, it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of a moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking; take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light coloured, replace it for thirty or forty minutes; hut if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it in the oven till done; remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come away quite so well as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out, put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. This gateau is sometimes varied by the addition of six ounces of sugared anise, and the same quantity of dry currants. Gateau de Cmnpiegtie, with Angelica and Cherries.*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six of sugar, six of preserved angelica, the same of preserved cherries, the zestes of three cedrats, half a glass of brandy, three or four glasses of milk, twelve whole eggs, twelve yolks, and two pounds of butter. Cut the angelica into small pieces ; put it into a basin, with sugar on which the cedrats have been rubbed, the brandy and cherries well drained, and each cut in half. The other parts of the operation are exactly the same as g-afeaw de Coni- piegne. Gateau d la Frawfaise.—Take three pounds of flour, twel ve drachma of yeast, one ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, the zestes of four oranges, half a glass of rum, three quarter.s of a pound of dry currants, twelve eggs, the same number of yolks, three glasses of cream, and two pounds of butter. Grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as it colours the su- gar, scrape oil' the surface lightly ; take six ounces of this sugar, crush it com- pletely, and put it into a pan. with the rum and the currants, (thorougnly wash- ed) ; having stirred it well, cover the pan, and set it aside. Then sift the flour, make your leaven with a fourth part of it, as usual, (see Gateau Parisienne); put the butter and eggs into a pan, and mix them the same as the conglaujjle. To this mixture put half the remaining flour; and when that is amalgamated, the cream, (a little at a time); then by de- grees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the currants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingre- dients may be thoroughly incorporated; finish the same gateau de Coinpiegne, Gateau of Mille Feuillcs.* — '1 ake some pufl'-paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must be double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thickness of a half crown ; cut them all of an equal size; dorez, and place them on tins. Then take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and gloze it. Bake them, and when cold, take the first layer, and spread currant- jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread apricot marma- lade ; and proceed thu®, Hsinga difl'erent preserve between each layer of puff- paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece with some of each preserve contained in the gateau: trim the edges, taking care to keep it quite round ; fix some small meringues to it, by means ot sugar boiled to casse ; place it on a napkin, and serve it. Chantilly cream of difl'erent colours may be substituted for the preserves. Gateau d la Parisienne.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, two pounds of butter, four glasses of cream, a pound of filberts, three quarters of a pound of pistachio nuts, and a quar- ter of a pound of preserved orange-peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them con- stantly till lightly coloured ; when done, take them off, and let them cool: as soon as they are cold, pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream; when re- duced to a smooth paste^ put them into a pan, stir the cream (a little at a time), into them; then strain them twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside. Then blanch half the pistachios : wash them in cold water; split each in half, and cut the orange- peel into pieces of the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about the eighth of an inch square. Divide the flour and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Go- teau de Coinpiegne, except that milk is sulistituted f.)r water. Having done it, and set it aside to rise, take a pound and a half of the butter; work it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining half pound, just dissolved ; stir them together well, and put in the eggs and