H A R ( 28.3 ) HAR turns, and then add the hare, cut in pieces; and when they have been m a little while, pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt, (as the bacon ought to give it a little saltness), pepper, two bay- leaves, parsleys and scallions, and mush- rooms ; take care that your meat floats in the liquor ; set it over a large fire, that it may reduce quickly to three quar- ters of its original quantity. Have ready some small onions peeled, and lightly fried in a little butter; put them into the civet when nearly done._ In about twenty or five and twenty minutes take it off, and keep it warm in hot ashes, till it is wanted for table. Hare en Daule.*—Put a boned hare into a braising pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon, (having lined the pan previously with the same), braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, strain the liquor; reduce and serve it over the hare. This dish may also be served cold, with jelly. Hare a la St. Denis.* — Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off the head ; season some iardons to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, scallions, and two onions, cut in slices. When ready for dressing, take the liver, minceit with an equal quantity of bacon, add salt, pepper, and a little pounded spice; to this put twice as much quenelle farce ; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; stuff the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, place the hare on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two carrots, cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine; simmer these for two hours, or more, according to the age of the hare. ^ When done, drain and glaze it. then re- duce the liquor to a jelly; adtl to it two ladiesful of espaqnote; if it should be too highly seasoned,put to it about an ounce of butter, and a little lemon juice; put this sauce in a dish, and serve the hare on it. Hare’s Ears.—Take as many pair of ears as your dish will contain ; scald them well, and braise them till tender; add a glass of wine, and a slice or two of lemon; when done, take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve with any relishing sauce. Hare {Fillets q/"), with Anchovies.— Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies (soaked in water and in slips for the purpose); sim- mer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen sbalots; when done, place them on a dish, but keep it hot. Put to the shalots a little cullis, a table- spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick ; pour this sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Hare {Fillets of). Larded.* — When your hare is skinned, run your knife along the back-bone, from the wing to the leg, and remove the fillet, and lard it with baCon, and form itaccording to your taste. Put some slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, a little thyme and bay-leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour ; having covered them with but- tered paper, close the stewpan, and put fire on the lid. When done, glaze them. Serve them on cucumbers d la creme, a poivrade, or any thing else you choose. Hare (Fillets of) Marines Sautes.*— Take oft the fillets, trim and lard them as the fillets sautes ; then put them into a pan with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, whole scallions, and a large glass of vinegar; leave the fillets in this for a week. When wanted, tak« them out, drain, and put them into the tossing-pan ; pour in a sufficient quantity of melted butter to make tlie fillets float; set your pan over a brisk fire ; turn them when done on one side ; as soon as they are firm to the touch, take them out, drain, and dish them on a poivrade. Hare {Fillets of) Sautes.*—ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as you can, and as each piece is done, put it into a tossing-pan ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter to it; put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking; as soon as one side is done, turn and do the other; then put them in a dish, take out tlic butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, and to It put a glass of white wine and four ladiesful ol espagnole ; reduce them to half, and then strain them over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, that the sauce be not too clear; it ought, properly, to adhere to them. Hare, to Fry a.—When the hare is skinned, lay it on a gridiron till hot through ; then quarter and fry it to a nice colour ia lard ; soak some toasted bread