343 ) MUT MUT sauce, reduce it; skim, and strain it over the collops. Mutton Collops.—Take a leg of mut- ton, which has hung for some time, and cut it into thin collops ; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pep- per, beaten mace, some shred parsley, thvme, and two shalots; put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when It is quite hot, put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon, till they are three parts done; put in half a pint of good mutton gravj% some lemon-juice, thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five mi- nutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mutton Collops d la Perigord.—Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil,_with sweet herbs; having laid in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding mari- nade, and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ragofit of the latter. Mutton d la Coquette.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, about the size of a finger, lard them quite through with ham and bacon ; simmer them in some stock, with sweet herbs ; when d.~'ne, take the meat out, reduce and str.ain the sauce over them. Then take some good fowl farce, cover each piece of mutton with this, wrap the whole in a slice of bacon ; wasn them over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, and bake them. Mutton Cutlets (.broiled) Breaded.*— Trim and season your cutlets with pep- per and salt, put them into some melted butter, and when they have imbibed a sufficient quantity of it, take them'out, and cover them completely with bread crumbs ; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cutlets too much, to burn the bread. Mutton Cutlets in Caul.*—La.rd and braise a dozen mutton cutlets, as for la smbise', place a weight on them whilst they are cooling; when cold, trim and wrap them in onions prepared as follows ; cut twelve onions into dice, blancli and cool them; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay- leaf, and nutmeg; add to these two ladiesful of veloute, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste; as soon as it is cold, use it as above-mentioned ; besides this, put on each cutlet a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, and hake them to a nice colour. Serve them very hot with a demi glaze. Mutton Cutlets tcitk Cucumbers.*— Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual, beat and lard them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; put them into a pan with a little melted but- ter, brown, and then trim them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots, cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a hayleaf, a little thyme ; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stock, and simmer the cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them, dish them en couronnes, with cu- cumbers and cream in the centre. utton Cutlets and Lettuces.*—Hav- ing prepared and dressed the cutlets in the same manner as with cucumbers; when done, glaze and dish them en cou- ronne, alternately, with lettuces, glazed. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Mutton Cutlets, d la Soubise.*—Pre- pare and dress your cutlets, as directed, with cucumbers; dish them en couronnes, with s.puree of white onions in the centre. Mutton, Curry of.*—Take a fine loin of mutton, take oft' all thd fat, cut the meat into dice, cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly ; when almost brown, pour in two cupsfull of water, put the whole into a stewpan, cover, and let it simmer for an hour, or more, according to the quantity. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. Mutton ((Fillet of) Braised.—Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and paste the same as for venison ; let it roast for a couple of hours. Be careful that it is not in the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled, and drained on a sieve; and, during the time the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them in the dish, and serve the meat upon them. Mutton (Fillets of\ d la Gelce.—T.ake the fillets from two loins of mutton, lard them with bacon, rolled in sweet herbs; put them into a stewpan, lined witli slices of bacon; add the trimmings of the meat, two carrots, cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of parsley, seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of madeira, and two ladlesful of consomme, cover the whole with bacon, and a piece, of buttered paper the size of the pan. Set it on the fire; as soon ns it boils, put it aside, with fire under and over, to simmer slowly for two hours ; then take it from the fire, and let the fillets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold, drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when