BUL ( 8d ) B RU I and boil them over a gentle fire till re- duced to half; then squeeze all together, Band strain the liquor through a napkin. Broth, Mettgre, for Soup with Herbs. —Set on a kettle of water, put in two or I three crusts of bread, and alt sorts of k good herbs; season with salt; put in j butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it for an hour and a half: then strain it through a sieve, or napkin. Tins will serve to make lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de sante, See. with herbs. Broth of Roots.— Take a quart of pease, boil them till tender; bruise them to a mash, put them into a boiling vessel that will hold four gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off, and let it settle; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear j9Kree into it, through a sieve; then put into it a bunch of carrots, half a bunch of parsnips, and a bunch of pars- ley-roots, and six onions, a bunch of pot- herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these to- gether; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and two spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. Broth, fVhite.—Boila fowl, and when it is enough, take it up, and put it into a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs; then put in the marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth, and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire ; then put the fowl hot out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN Colouring for Made Dishes. —Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine ; put it into an iron frying-pan, or earthen pipkin ; set it over a clear fire, and when the su^r is melted, it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire, until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time, fill the pan up with red wine ; take care that it does not boil over, add a little salt and lemon ; put a little cloves and mace, a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten mi- nutes ; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BRUNOISE.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, &c. into dice ; if summer time, fry them in butter, if the winter, blanch them ; when fried without having lost their original colour, moisten them with rich broth, seasoned with salt and a little sugar, and let the whole, boil for an hour. Green pease, asparagus tops, &c. may be .added. Skim off the fat, and put in some crusts of bread, cut thin, and saoked previously in broth, and serve. BRUNSWICK Turf.-Pare and core with a scoop, eight or ten golden pippins, put them into a stewpan with a gill of sweet wine and four ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon peel, a little cinna- mon and mace; stew them over a slow fire till the apples are tender; wherj. cold, put them into a very light, or vol- uu-vent paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUSOLES.—Take some beef steaks, beat them and put them into a stewpaa with thin slices of bacon laid underne.ath ; strew over them chopped chibbnls, par- sley and spices; then another layer of steaks, and strew them over as before ; then cover them all with broad slices of bacon, and cover the stewpan close, and put fire underneath and at top. _Whea they are ready, prepare a cullis with the carcasses of partridges ; then take off all the fat, lay them in a dish, and pour the cullis over them. B UBBLE-AND-SQUEAK.-Sprinkle some slices of cold boiled salted beef, with pepper, fry them with a bit of butler of a light brown. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry and chop it small; take the beef out of the frying-pan, and lay the cabbage in it, sprinkle a liitle pepper and salt over ; kee^ the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the cab- bage in the middle of the dish, and the beef round it. BUCKTHORN {Syrv,p o/).—Gather the berries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven; squeeze out the juice, and for each peck of berries put two pounds of Lisbon sugar, and boil them together a quarter of an hour ; let it cool, and then bottle it. Ampler way.—Take three quarts of the juice of clarified buckthorn berries, and four pounds of brown sugar ; make them into a syrup over a gentle fire, and while waim, mix with it a drachm of the distilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may be known by the number of its seeds, having four, the. alder buckthoi n has only two, and the cherry buckthorn one seed. The former is to be used. BULLACE Cheese^with the skins).— Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water. Pour oft some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit, weigh half a pound of sugar._ Set the fruit in a pan over the lire, let it boil quickly, till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, acid the si:gar,6tir it in well and simmer itslowly for two hours; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting-pans. Buclace Cheese {withoiit the skins).—