C R E ( 195 ) C 11 E Crbam Posset. — Tiike twelve eggs, leaving oiu two or three whites, take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in ; add half a pound of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nutmeg grated; stir it on a dialling dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; lake a quart of sweet cream; when it boils pour it into a basin, cover it with a warm plate and a cloth; then set it on a dialling dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. Cream of any Preserved Fruit.—Take half a pound of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat toge- ther well for an hour; take it ofi' with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or glass salver, with other creams, nr put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do this way. Cream R/ienisti.—Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinna- mon, and half a pound of sugar; while this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites of eggs, beat them well together with a whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, and your eggs to a syrup ; strike it very fast with the whisk, till it comes to such thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be sure not to let it curdle ; add to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish ; garnish it with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. Cream Rtienis/i.—Cut two call’s feet very small, put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, a stick of cin- namon, and a little lemon-peel; boil the.m gently till they are reduced to less than a quart; strain it, and skim oH' the fat; put it into a stewpan, with a little lemon-peel, a few coriander seeds, a little saflron, and two bay-leaves; sweeten it according to your taste with fine su- gar, and let it boil up ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs very fine, take the cream oft'the fire, andstir in the eggs well; put it over the fire a moment, taking care that it does not boil: strain it through a sieve, put hi a gill of Rhenish wine ; stir it till it is half cold, then put it into moulds ; when it is cold, turn it out into a dish, and garnish according to taste. Cream (Royal) Ices.—Take any quan- tity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in proportion (tliat is, four yolksof eggs to every pint of cream) put a little lialf pounded coriander, cinnamon, orange Or lemon-peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. Cream Sclbalotie dVIlalie7mc.*—T».\:e. the yolks of twelve new laid eggs, lout- glasses of Madeira, six ounces ol lump sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinna- mon. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over a quick fire, milling it the same as you would chocolate, till the whole saucepan is filled with froth ; then serve the cream, as quickly as possible, in custard or jelly glasses. Cream Sac/:.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gen- tle fire till it becomes as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses with longpiecesofdry toast. Cream, Sa?e.—Take two quarts of cream, boil it well; then put to it half a pint of the juice of red sage : a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pound of sugar. Cream Sawee.*—Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, a few green onions, and shalots, all cut small; add one clove of garlic whole ; turn the sauce a few times over the fire ; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk; let the vvhole boil for a quarter of an hour, strain oft' the sauce, and when you want it for use, put in a little but- ter, some parsley just scalded and chop- ped fine, salt, whole pepper; then thicken the sauce over the fire. This may be used with all kinds of dishes that are done white. Cream Sauce.— Put a dozen fine white mushrooms into a stewpan, with two or three stalks of parsley, a bit of butter, and a little salt; stir them over a moderate fire, and when the butter be- gins to fry and look clear, shake in a little flour, but be careful not to make it too thick; then add some good consomnU, and reduce it to the thickness of becUa- melle sauce; then add cream, and pass it through a tammy. Cream Sauce.*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonlul of pars- ley, and the same of scallions, both chop- ped small; a pinch of salt, a little coarse pepper, and a nutmeg grated ; mix these well, and then add a glass of cream or milk : set it on the fire, and stir it till it boils ; if it be too thick, add .a little more cream; this sauce should boil, and be kept Stirling for a quarter of an hour. Cream (//-7i?fe) Sherbet.*— Put the. yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoonful of orange-flower water or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in .a covered S2