C A K ( 93 ) C A K tlien add a quarter of a pound of dry cur- ranip, well washed, four ounces of mus- cadel raisins, one ounce of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce of candied orange, cut in the same man- ner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum j mix the whole well toge- ther, and finish the same as for Cake d la Parisieiine, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish and masked all over with powdered sugar. Cake {Bolar).*—Oxia pound of flour dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of yeast, some almond milk, and water to mix for a sponge; when raised, beat up three quarters of a pound of clarified butter, three eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten till the spoon comes clean away; then add cin- namon powder, candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well buttered ; keep it before the fire till put in the oven. Cake {Bolar).*—When the sponge is beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cinnamon. CAKE(B«fcA-Bo/ar).*—Done,asabove, without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot pour in three quarters of a pound of cla- rified sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange-flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are previously put in the cake.Ornament your cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was a favourite cake of the late Queen Charlotte. Cake de Bmirneville-—Work about half a pound of flour, with five or six eggs whole, some fine chopped lemon- peel, a few drops of orange-flower water, a spoonful of plain water, and a little salt; then let it rest about an hour; you will put about as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together; bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you think proper, with sugar, non- pareils, or colours. Cake {Bread, Cmnmmi).—Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cuplul of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Cake {Breakfaxt),—Rvi\} a pound and a half ol butter into half a pecl<^f flour, three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix it well together; bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for a quarter of a year. Cake {Bride).—Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, tour pounds oflresli butler, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the samequantityof nutmegs; to every pound of flour put eight eggs; wash and pick four pounds of currants, and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways, very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy ; first work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quar- ter of an hour ; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth ; mix them with your sugar and butter; beat the yolks half an hour, at least, and mix them with your cake ; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and al- monds lightly in ; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your boons to keep it from running out; rub it well with butter, put in your cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with cake be- tween every lay ; after it is risen and co- loured, cover it with paper before your oven is stopped up; it will take three hours baking. Cake, d la Brie.*—Take some rich Brie cheese, knead it with a pint and half of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a little salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand for an hour; thmi lorm your cake and bake as usual. Cake {Cliantilti/, or Cuke Trijie).-r- Bake a rice cake in a mould; when cold, cut it round, about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custaru, and some tea-spoonsful of rasp- berry jam, and then put on a high whip. Cake de Compiegne.—The same paste as for brioches, only keep it more liquid w'ltli some hot milk ; put in a few stoned raisins and currants. This cake is made in a mould well trimmed with butter. Cakes {Dry).—Hub one pound of but- ter into one pound of flour, one pound of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all night in orange-flower or rose water);