COD ( 175 ) COD of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce._ Lay a napkin under the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. Cod Baked.*—Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine ; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. Another Chum a fine large cod, clean it well, and open the under part to the bone, and put in a stuffing made with beef suet, parsley, sweetherbs shred fine, an egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, maee and grated lemon-peel; put this inside the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered paper, and bake it; baste it well with melted but- ter. Cod au Court Bhuillmt.* — Boil the cod gently in a fish-kettle, with water, salt, vinegar, a glass of wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it cold on a napkin. Cod en Dauphin-*—Your cod being properly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay-leaf, parsley, and garlic. Then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin; place it in a baking pan, baste it with the marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done, take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ra- gofit:—Boil up (separately) three carps’ roes, and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, mushrooms, parsley, and scal- lions ; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soup niaigre. When the ragodt is sufficiently done, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and some cream. Coo with Herbs.*—Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water; when it has been in an hour, place it in a table dish, with sweetherbs ready cooked, and but- ter ; season with salt, peeper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; sprinkle the fish with drippings, moisten it with a bottle of white wine, baste it frequently with melted butter, and bake it; when done, squeeze the juice of two lemonp over it. Cod Pie.—Lay a fine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours, then wash it well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace; place it in a dish, with a little butter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, and bake it; when done, pour in a sauce, made as followsa spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a few oys- ters, boil the whole once. . Cod in Salt kVater.*—The cod being properly cleaned and prepared, rub it all over with lemon-juice, and put it into the fish-kettle with salt and water, two or three bay-leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice; let it stand over the fire (taking care that it does not boil) until sufficiently done ; then drain and serve it on a napkin, gar- nished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. Cod Sauce.—Take a bunch of parsley, chibbol, two shalots, two cloves, a bay- leaf, some mushrooms, and a hit of but- ter ; soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour and milk or cream sufficient to boil to the consis- tence of a sauce; and add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. Cod Stuffed.*—Chuse a fine large cod, and having cleaned and washed it, lay it an hour in salt and water; drain it, and fill the body with a farce, made of pounded whitings and anchovies; place it on a table-dish, pour over it a bottle of white wine, butter, and chopped parsley; then bake it, and when done, drain off the fat, without removing from the dish. Cover it with sauce d la Menehoult, strew bread-crumbs, and a little Parme- san cheese grated over the fish, and with a feather do it over with melted butter; colour it in the oven, drain it again, clean the dish, and serve with a white sauce Italienne. Cod (Scollops of) en bonne Morue.— iVork three spoonsfulaof bechameUeover the fire with a good bit of butter, season- ed with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and then let them remain in the sauce-till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scollops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread- crumbs over, and brown it with the sala- mander. Garnish your dish with toasted bread cut in different forms, and placed alternately. Cod d la^ Matlre d’Hotel.—Put the flakes of cod into umaitre d’hdlel, season them well, and add the juice of a lemon. Iserve them very hot. Cod (Soolkps of) in a Vol au Vent.— Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne Monte, but not quite so thick. Place a l ol au /■'euf in the table dish, and put the cod into it; do not, however, put it in until just as it ought to go to table. Cream sauce may be used en maigre. Cod (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt