MAR ( 330 ) MAR mouthed bottle, and put the leaves into it; let the bottle befilledwiih them, and pour upon them wine, brandy, proof- spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. Maiuouam Sweet, to preserve.—Beat up very well the white of an egg, tlien beat very fine and sift some double-re- fined sugar: take some marjoram and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and lay it in the form of the glass ; so do it with the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and lay it on paper to dry. marmalade.*—Marmalade may be composed of al most an y fruits; the best, however, for this purpose are, apricots, peaches, oranges, q uinces, egg- plums, ap- ples, &c. They are usually made by boil- ing the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire : it is kept in pots, which must not be covered till the marmalade is quite cold. The proportion of sugar is half a pound to each pound of fruit. Marmalade, Transparent. — Take some very pale Seville oranges, and cut them into quarters, take out the pulp, put it into a bason and take nut all the skin and seeds; put the peels into alittle salt and water, and leave them to soak in it all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till they are tender; cut them in extremely thin slices and add them to the pulps. To every pound of the marmalade, put a pound and a half of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them togetlier gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear, boil or simmer it for five or six minutes longer, keep stirring it gently all the time, and take greatcare you do not break the slices. When cold, put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. MARROW Bones.—Chop the bones at each end so as to stand steady, then wash them clean, saw them in halves, cover the top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve with dry toast. Marrow Cream.*—Pound an ounce of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding two ounces of beef- marrow, and some lemon-peel ; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow ; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a saucepan, set it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens, then pour it into small cups or moulds, and put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. Marrow with Eggs.some beef- jnarrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, season them with pepper,salt,nut- meg,^ and sweet herbs; when well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each in thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. Marrow Fritters.*—Boil some beef- marrow with ?. glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece; when cool turn them out, dip each into a batter made of cream-cheese, pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour and an egg ; fry these fritters, either in oil, lard, or butter ; w’hichever you use, however, should be boiling. Marrow Pasties.—Take the marrow from three marrow-bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet marjoram, the yolks of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, a little rose-water and some nutmeg; work all these together, and put them into a pasty of puff-paste, and fry them in lard. Marrow Pasties.—Shred some apples with some marrow, add ?. little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry tliern in clarified butter ; when fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. Marrow, Patties of.* — Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flower- Avater; when reduced to a paste, mix it Avith a handful of flour, a drop of Aram Avater, and the yolks of three eggs ; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez and bake them in a slow oven. Wlien done, take them out and put in each a little cream made with beef-mar- roAv, lemon-peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover it Avitb a spoonful of Avhiteof egg wliipped to a snow ; strcAv sifted sugar over, and serve them very hot. Marrow Pudding.—Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, a pound of marroAV sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg, according to taste, two ounces of citron sliced ; three-quar- ters of an hour Avill be sufficient to hake it ; you may add currants, if you think proper. Marrow Pudding.—Boil with a quart of new milk, cinnamon and lemon-peel, and strain it to half a pound of beef- roarroAv finely chopped, a fCAV currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange-peel candied, a little grated nutmeg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table spoonful of each, and half a pound of Naples biscuits. When the mixture is cold, add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the wliites, and bake it in a dish Avith puff-paste round it. . , , Marroav Pudding.*—Soak beef-mar- row in cold AA'ater for twelve hours, then