( 448 ) S AU S AU little cs?ence of ham, season it well, and let it boil slowly for some time. S.urcE, Suprc7ne.*—Put one ladleful of veloute, and four of essence of fowl, into a Saucepan, set it on the fire, and when reduced to half, put in a teaspoonful of parsley, slired small, and scalded, a little fresh butter, half the juice of a lemon, and some pepper; place it on the fire, make it quite hot, but not boiling; van- nez it well, and serve quickly. ■ Sauce (Sweet).—Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up once or twice, add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay- leaves ; give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. Sauce, Tournee.—Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter, and some champignons, set it on a moderate fiie, stirring till the butter begins to look clear ; then put the champignons into another stewpan, and add a sufficient quantity of flour to the butter, to make it the consistence of bat- ter;'mix it well in, and when smooth, put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme., stir it in, then add more, at dif- ferent times, until you have as much as you require. Set it on the fire, and let it boil Slowly, stirring constantly; when reduced to the proper thickness (which is that of good melted butter), strain it through the tammy, to use when occasion requires. Sauce (Lhiiversal).—Take half a dozen split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay- leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange-peel, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and two ounces of salt; put all these ingre- dients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, h.alf a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine ; put them into a jar, cover it as closely as possible, and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear, pour it oil' carefullv, strain, and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if tightly corked, and may ue used with all kinds of meat and fish. It may al-o be added to other sauces. Sauce, IVhiie.*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of Imtter. and a tea-spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper; w'hen well worked up, add a des-ert spoonful of vinegar, and a little water. Set these on the fire, and stir till thick ; be careful not to let it boil. Sauce (/r/.»Ve). — Boil a few bits or bones of_ chicken, or veal, in a little water, with a btmch of sweet herbs, an onioti, a slice of lemon, a little celery, and a few pepper-corns; when you have about half a pint of liquor, strain it, add some good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pounded mace, and salt; make it quite hot, stirring continually; when dune, flavour it with mushioems, or lemon-juice. Sauce (fFhiie Fish).—Simmer toge- ther an anchovy, a little horse-radish, scraped, some mace, an onion, stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a glass of white ivine, and a quait'rof a pint of water ; when propeily reduced, strain it, and then add two spooiifful of cream, a piece of butter, rolled in flour; set it on the fire again, and keep stirring till it boils. IVhen ready to serve, put in a liltleketchup, and some lemon juice. SAUR-BRAUTON*—To a sirloin of beef of twenty pounds, take one table spoonful cf allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay-leaves, parsley, and sweet herbs, of each asmall quantity. Stick the cloves into the meat, which lay in a deep pan, with the above articles over it, end just cover- ed with vinegar. Let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered; two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require at least eight hours roasting, and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy marte to baste it tvith, as the vinegar may make it too acid. This pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUR-KRAUT*—Have ready a vine- gar white wine orbrandy,cask,about four inches from the bottom of which put in e vent-peg. Take a nur.iber of the best white cabbages, strip oft'all the outride leaves, and slice ihe hearts transversely as thin as possible, until you have as much as you require; then lay over the bottom of the cask, osier or vine twigs, to the height ol the peg; on these put alternate layers of thesliced ctihbagc.and Silt (in the proportion of cne pr.uiid of the latter to fifty of the former); let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the ca-k is about two- tliirds full, put cabbage haves all over; cover them with a cloth, and a roumi piece of wood, which will exactly fit the inside of the cask, and place a sP'i.e or heavy weight on it. In lour or five days time draw out the peg. anil let the brine run oft'; add more salt, and repeat this operation at inlet vals of a month at latest.