vv II I W III 502 boiled, and strew over parsley, boiled of a nice ijreen, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WELCH Rabbit. — Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard over it, and serve as hot as possible. VVeocm Rabbit.*—Toast as many slices of bread as you may require; cut some Gloucester cheese into dice, and put it into a saucepan with a very small quan- tity of water, a little black, or cayenne pepper; when the cheese is melted, spread it over the toasts, and colour it with the salamander. . WHEATEARS-—Vick them, cut off the pinions at the first joint, draw out the inside; turn the feet close to the legs, and entwine one in the other; then run along skewer through the middle of the bodies of as many as you intend serv- ing, and fasten them on the spit. WHEY.*—Tut a very small portion of rennet into a qu.art of milk, and let it stand by the side of the lire until turned ; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or strain the liquor carefully from tlie curd, and serve quite clear. Whuv (Vinegar).—Put into some boil- ing milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon-juice, in- stead of vinegar. VYhev {fV/iite Wine).—Pour as much goxl raisin wine into a pint of boiling new milk, as will completely turn it, and make it look clear ; let it boil up. then set the saucepan on one side till the curd subsides; it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of loaf sugar. WHITE PoL—Add to apint of cream, four eggs, beat up with a little salt, some sliced nuttneg, and plenty of sugar ; slice very thin the crumb of a small roll; put it into a dish, and pour the cream, fkc. over it; add a few sun raisitis, previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, and put it into a moderate oven to bake. VVitiTE Pot {to make).*—IJeat up the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg, gritted, and a nuar- ter of a pound of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the milk, &c. over them ; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven ; it will take half an hour baking. WHITINGS.—lu choosing whitings. be careful that the skin has a silvery ap.< pearance, that the body is firm, and the fins stiff; these are sure proofs of its freshness. Whitings, d VAnglaise.*—Va\.\n\a% saucepan two spoonsful of oil,half a lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken off), salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, the same of water, and let them boil nearly a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings, properly cleaned, cook them is the above, and serve with a sauce made as follows : blanch a clove of garlic, and beat it with the back of a knife, put it with parsley, shalots, and two glasses of champagne, into a stew- pan ; let it boil five minutes, then add some butler, rolled in flour, salt, and pepper ; stir it over the fire till smooth, then serve. Whitings Boiled.— Whitings should be boiled in the same manner as cod, haddock, or any other fish; serve with anchovy sauce, or ketchup, and butter. Whitings Broiled.—Wash the whit- ings in salt and water; dry them well with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear tire; serve with shrimp, or oyster sauce. Whitings, Dried.—To dry whitings, you must choose the largest; take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and cleanse the blood from the back l>one. Wipe them very dry, and put salt into them, and into the sockets of the eyes; let them lay for a night on a board; then hang them up in a dry place, they will be tit for eating in three or four days; when wanted to be served, skin, and rub them over with egg, and strew tnem with bread-crumbs. Lay them before the fire, and b.aste them with butter until sufficiently brown; serve with egg sauce. Whitings, Forcemeat Balis. — Bone as neatly as possible either large or small whitings; scrape the flesh, and pound it in a mortar ; boil some bread-crumbs in cream, until the liquor is quite soaked ; then pour it into the mortar, add a good bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, half a shalot, salt, pepper, the. yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten ; mi.\ the whole well together, have a stewpan of slock on a brisk fire, and when it boils fast, add to it a glass of white wine ; take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, and put it mUi the stock, and so continue till all is used; lake care to turn them about; they re- quire but a few minutes boiling; take them out one by one, according as you threw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce, with a little lemon-juice. . IYhitino Fiied, — Cleanse, and skin