P 0 R ( 415 ) FOR large bunch of parsley-leaves, some scal- lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter ; set the pan on the fire, and re- duce the whole till nearly all gone, when add two ladiesful of espag^nole, and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper consistence, and strain it for use. POMEGRANATE Clear Cakes.— Pare some good boiling apples, and put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them, set them on the fire, and when perfectly soft, press the ^Ip through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the juice of two or three pomegranates, that of one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of each grated ; strain it again, and to every pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks, colour it with cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking ofl' the scum before it becomes cold). Set them in a stove, and when the top is dry, turn them out, and pul them to dry again ; then cut them into what- ever forms you please, put them into the stove or oven to harden, then lay them on sieves, and when thoroughly dry, place them in boxes with paper between. As they are apt to become moist, they should be looked at frequently. PowEGRANATES, Transparent Jelly of.* —Take the seeds from five very fine pomegranates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horse- hair sieve; filter this juice and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour, with a little cochineal ; add the isinglass to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Pomegranates, Syrup of.*—Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds (which must be very red); crush, and put them into a skillet, with half a pint or wafer; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify a pound and half of sugar^ and boil it to souffle, then add the juice, boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not be bottled until quite cold. This number of pomegra- nates will yield a quart of syrup. Pork to Chouse.—If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears cool ana smooth ; if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle in general is allected first. There is a kind of pork called measly; when in this stale it is extremely unwhole.some to eat; but you may easily discover when it is measly, the fat being impregnated with small kernels. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. Pork fed at still- houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy fed pork is the best. The prime season for pork is from Michaelmas to March. Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up differently. Hogs are kept to a larger size ; the chine for back bone) should be cut down on each side, the whole length, and is cither boiled or roasted ; the chine is considered the prime part. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. There is a large spare-rib on eachside, which is generally divided into two, one sweet bone, and one blade bone. The bacon is the whole outside, and contains a fore-leg and a ham; the latter is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon it is called a gammon. There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but not equally tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the spring, or fore-leg, the fore-loin, or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. 'The hind consists of the leg and loin. A variety of nice dishes may be made of the feet of pork ; they should be cut off before the legs are cured. The same may be observed wUh the ears. I'he bacqn-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and is sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. Pork, Blade Bone of.—\i should be broiled, and when nearly done, peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard, and serve it very hot. The blade bone is taken from the bacon hog; the less meat lelt on it, in moderation, the better. Pork Cheese.* — Take a pig’s head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices: do the same with the etirs ; separate, the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay-leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay the skin of the head open over a salad- bowl; arrange the pieces in it, inter- mixing with them a little leaf, tongue, a Veearlate, and truffles; when all are put in, wrap the skin round them ; sew it up very tight, and dress it as directed for hog’s head ; when suflicientiy done, take it from the fire, and whilst warm, put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. Pork Cheese (Italian).* — Pound a pig’s liver, with two third’s bacon, and