¥0W ( 253 ) FO W gently till there remains only just sulh- cient for sauce; then add a good piece of butter rollyed in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, the same quantity of catsup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it. Place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. Fowl Slvffedwifh Black Pudding Pre- paration.—Fry two fine ciiopped onions in butter till they are almost done; then add chopped parsley, shalots, a little pounded coriander seed, pepper and salt, half a pound of tripe or marrow, the yolks of four raw eggs, and half a pint of hog’s blood ; tliicUen it over the fire without boiling; take out the breast-bone of a fowl, and stuff it with this prepara- tion ; sew it up, and roast it with bacon and paper tied over it; serve with cullis and consommi for sauce. Fowls Stuffed or Forced.—Make a forcemeat with half a pound of beef-suet, as much crumb of bread grated fine, the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, and a pound of veal with them, some truffles, morels and mushrooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and par.sley shred fine, some grated nut- meg, pepper, salt, and lemon-peel grated; bone your fowls, fill them with the force- meat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, with truffles and morels. The fowls mav be larded if you choose. FowLti la TaWare.—Take a fine fowl, turn in the legs as usual, then cut it in two, take the bones off from the back, cut the breast off, break those of the legs, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread-crumbs, equally on all sides. Next broil it up to a fine colour, on a slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. Send it up with a brown Italienne. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done; it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done properly. Fowl with Truffles.—Truss a large fowl as for boiling, put truffles into the inside well stewed, and prepared; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat ba- con on tbe breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, garnish it with truffles in sauce d I’espag- nole, or bmwn sance, and serve. Fowl (fVild).—Tlie flavour of wild fowl is preserved better by not stuffing them; put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. Wild fowl do not require so much dressing as tame ; they should be done of a fine colour, and nicely frothed. A rich brown gravy sliould be served in the dish, and when the breast is cut into slices, before it is taken from the bone, it will be much improved by a squeeze oflemon, some salt and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell which these birds frequently have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, and for the first ten mi- nutes baste them with this; then re- move the pan, and keep constantly bast- ing with batter. Fowl t.TFild) Pfe.—-The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie (or for any thing else) larded with anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; put a good quantity of butter into the pie, and finish the same as all others. Fowl (/-Fings of) Larded.*—Take as many wings of fowl as you may require, lard, and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of veal, a little streaked bacon, and sweet herbs ; vvhen sufficiently done, lay them in a dish on any vegetable you please (previously boiling them in good broth), and serve them as a aide dish. There are various other ways of send- ing the wings of fowl to table ; but they are generally cooked as above, or accord- ing to the taste and fancy ; only two or three recipes are, therefore, introduced here. Fowls {kVingsof) aupainde beurre.* —Boil the wings in broth, with some onions, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, when done and quite cold, wrap each wing in a large slice of butter, which must be pretty firm ; if it should be soft, work a proper quantity of flour into it, to bring It to the right consistence ; when all the wings are covered, lay one over the other, press the whole together lightly, so that it only forms one piece; then dip your hands in flour, that in smoothing this piece the butter may not adhere to them; then set it in a cool place for half an hour. In the meanwliile prepare a quantity of bread-crumbs well dried in the oven, and having fastened the but- tered wings to a spit, put them before a slow fire, take a handful of the. bread- crumbs, and when the butter begins to melt, shake them over it, and continue this operation till the butter has taken up all the crumbs, and no longer runs, when it may be put nearer the fire to finish the cooking; take care to keep the whole of a clear equal brown. (IFings oj ) d la Prnvencale.*— Lard the wings with small pieces of an- chovies, instead of bacon, and cook them m a closely covered saucepan, with some streaky bacon, artichoke bottoms, aspa- ragus tops, and garlic, a sufficient quan- tity of broth, and seasoned with salt, nutmeg, ginger and pepper. When nuite tender, take out the wings, and lay tiieia