CHI ( ]o2 c n I place a large truffle in the middle and serve. CnrcKENS C/nrhiffaie.—Unv\ne taken oil the feet, beat tlie breast bones of your chickens flat without breaking the skin, flour and fry tliem in butter ; when of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving in the chickens, over which lay a pound of gravy beef cut in tliin slices, another piece of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs : pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew; in a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan with a little red wine and a few mushrooms ; then put in the chick- ens, and when they are hot, dish them up, and pour the sauce over them ; gar- nish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. Chickens A la Condi. Take the breast bones from a couple of fat chickens, bind them to a proper shape, and slit them equally with a penknife, and insert between each slit slices of truffles and tongue « I’vcarlate; place them in an oval stewpan, place bacon all round, but none on the top; put tire on the top of the pan, until the bacon has taken co- lour ; then remove the fire, and let the chickens boil gently for half an hour; take them out, drain and glaze them; serve with a ragofit A I’Allemande. Chickens A la Crime.*—Parboil a conple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, and throw into warm water for half an hour ; then do them over the fire in a little fresh butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, &c. sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the water has soaked into the chicken, when add half a pint of cream and a little butter. The yolks of three eggs may be put in also, bnt in that case, a small quantity of verjuice should be put in before the cream. Second fVay.*—Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit, rub them with butter, cover them with bread-crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time; serve with well thickened cream- sauce. Chickens {Croquettes of).*—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournie, and add to it the yolks of four eggs; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce, take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread-crumbs, giving them an elongated form ; then dip them in some well beaten egg, bi'ead them again, and fry them of a light brown. Chicke.v {Croquettes of) A la Royale. —Mix well into some very thick bicha- melle and some glaze the breast of a chicken, some tongue, truffles and mush- rooms all minced very small: when quite cold roll them into little balls about the size of a nut, and having beaten up three eggs throw the balls into them. Take them out quickly and roll them in bread-crumbs ; dip them a second time into the eggs, and cover them again with bread-crumbs; fry them as other croquettes. Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, place the croquettes on, and round it, and serve. Chickens aux Croutons.* — Stuff a couple of chickens with the livers, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Fry two crusts of bread in some oil, then put them to drain, and in the same oil fry two onions cut in small pieces ; when three parts done,add pars- ley, scallion, shalot, and a fowl’s liver, all minced, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of cullis ; take off" the fat, and season it with salt and bruised pepper; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Dish the chickens, and place the crust by the side of them. Chicken Currie. — Take the skinloff, cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in ciirrie-powder and flour (mixed together a spoonful of flour to half an ounce of currie) fry two or three sliced onions in butter ; when of a light brown, put in the meat and fry them together till the meat becomes brown ; tlien stew them together with a little water for two or three hours. More water may be added if too thick. Chickens d VEcarlate.* — Prepare your chickens as usual, take off’the skin with great care, cover them with cray- fish butter, and then put the skin on again ; season them lightly, wrap them in bacon, and roast them; on serving, pour more cray-fish butter on them. If you wish to have the chickens red,and the sauce white, put cream sauce under them. Chickens au.v Ecrevisscs. — Having boned two or three middle-sized chickens, roll them up making them rather pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of cray-fish for an liour. Then wipe off'the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner; |iut the pointed or neck part into the tail of a cray-fish. place the body on the chicken, and the claws at the side. Prepare the sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole.