ox ox ( 368 ) has bfien baking. Puff-pastes require a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over; tart-paste, or short crust, requires a slower oven ; petits-choux, one still slower ; but for raised pies, let it be as hot as for puff-paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. Therefore, when you give a dinner where paste is necessary, endeavour to make it in the morning ; heat your oven first for the puff-paste, which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gradually down, and bake your pastes in rotation, as the heat falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, and, by degrees, raise the heat as the biscuits are baking. For souffles or light puddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. The greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad bladed knife that is %'ery bright, and plunge it into the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking, but this must only be done in a case of great eirergency ; for those who are em- ployed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence. Ox Cheek Boiled, to be eaten Cold.— Bone and thoroughly cleanse an ox- cheek, then let it steep in white-wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tiglit with tape, boil it in water, salt, and vinegar, till it is very tender; press it hard, and when quite cold, cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vinegar. Ox Cheek Pie.—Bone them, and soak t lem thoroughly in water, boil them ten- der, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eyes, season with pepper, Balt, and nutmeg, then mince some beef and some beef suet; lay this at the bot- tom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. For paste, as follow:>half a peck of flour, the whites of half a dozen eggs, two pounds and a half of butler, work the butter and eggs up dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a stiff'ymste, and work up all cold. Ox Cheek Potted.—Take an ox cheek and thoroughly wash it, then bone it, rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in tlie oven until it is lender ; then takeout the fat, the skin, and the palate ; add to a pound of the meat two ounces of the fat which swims on the top of the liquor, beat it together in a mortar, and finish the same as for potted beef. Ox Cheek Stewed.—Take half a head, let it soak for three hours,and thuioughly clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper ; let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven, or let it simmer by the side of the fire. When tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup ; put in what vegetable you think best. Ox Cheek Stewed.—Soak and well wash the day before it is to be eaten, a fine ox cheek, put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled up once and been well skimmed, let it simmer ; in two hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice; skim it often ; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either separate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by fry- ing some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering tliem with it. This last method e.xtremely improve-s the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not liked in the soup, they can be taken out, and a small roll'toasted,or fried bread,may be added. Celery is a very great improvement, and should alwaj's be served. When celery cannot be procured, theseed isa most ex- cellent substitute, lx)iled in, and strained off'. Ox Cheek Steiced.—V\i\, it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it. let it simmer for two hours; peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some wp- per, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, lied up in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, turnips cut into very small jieces, and carrots sliced, half a pint of )eef gravy, a little white wine, and a