C O F ( 1^ ) C 0 F I i well till you ace it makes a royal paste, a little tliickish, that you may take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a farthing ; place it in the stove with a slow fire till it is quite dry, and take it ofF from tlie paper. You may make them another way, viz. with ground coffee, which you sift very fine through a sieve, then adding a little water,_ to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity, the same as the above. Coffee {to Roust).* —Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to communicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best way to roast it in a roaster, (over a charcoal fire), which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which often is the case when on a spit before the fire. Coffee Sugar.*—Put a cup of strong coffee into a preserving-pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick, put it on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly; the moment it begins to bubble, take it oftj and add two spoonsful of powder sugar; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools it will thicken and become^darker; dry it in a stove, and then pass it thiough a fine sieve. Coffee {Syrup).*—Take two pounds of ground coflee, infuse one of the pounds of coffee in two pints of water, then let it stand to settle, when clear, pour it off’; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee; boil half a pound of sugar to caramel height, colour it a deep red; then put it into the coffee to dis- solve ; then pour it into a pipkin with another half pound of sugar; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it sim- mer for eight nr nine hours ; then strain it, and when cold, put it into bottles, cork them hermetically, and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use, put some of the syrup into a cup, adding warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coffee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travelling, when there is not time nr conveniences for making coffee in the usual manner. Coffee Tart.—M\x a lilt'e floiu »nd cream, with one or two cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and three eggs; boll it about half an hour, stirring continually, for fear it should catch at bottom ; put it into the paste, and whiten of eggs beat up and frothed upon it; without ton-crust. Coffee fVufers.—To a common table- spoonful of ground coffee, put a quarter of a pound of sugar powder, and a quar- ter of a pound of fine flour; mix them well together, with as much good cream, as will make the paste or hatter pour out pretty thick from the spoon; the paste being prepared, warm the wafer iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter, tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax; pour a spoonful of the bat- ter, and bake over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice, until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour; if you would have them twisted, put them upon a mould, ready at hand for that purpose ; put it up directly, as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so con- tinue ; always keep them iu a warm place. Coffee {whipped).—\5pnn tliree half pints of cream, put two cups of strong coffee cleared : add four yolks of new-laid eggs beat up, half a pound of sugar, and about as much more cream. Coffee d I’eau.Cream an bain marie.* —Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground coffee in a glass of boiling water, let it stand, and when the coffee is settled, pour off the liquor into a preserving pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to caramel; cover this closely, and dissolve the sugar over hot ashes- Then pour the coffee into five glasses of hot milk; mix them with the yolks of ten eggs and one whole, six ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt. Strain the cream, and finish in the usual way. See Cream au bain marie. Coffee u I’eati, Cream d la Fran- (aise.*—Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground coffee in a glass of boiling water, when the coffee is precipitated, pour it off clear; boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, pour the coffee into it, and then put it on hot ashes, that the sugar may dissolve gently, and when it is perfectly melted, stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, four glasses of boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar; after which put it on a moderate fire, stirring witli a wooden spoon ; when it begins to simmer, pass it through a fine sieve, .and let it st.and till lukewarm; then mix in six drachms of clarified isinglass, and finisli as Cream d la Fraticaise. CoFFEF fi Ptuu. wbipmd Cream.*— Infuse two minces of frcsli ground coffee in half a glass of water; and when the I II I I ! I I I I' |. P II li I ) 1 I