C I N C II u ( 1G8 ) sift a little sugar over, and when quite done, glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. Choux en Biscuits.—Also called Ga- teau A LA d'Artoise. and are made like petits Choux d la d’Arloise. Choux d la Mecque.*—Put two glasses of milk, and two onnces of fresh butter into a Rtewpau, making them into a paste, with a proper quantity of flour; having dried it a few minutes, add two more ounces of lnutter, and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. Take it from the stewpan, and stir into it two eggs and two ounces of powder-sugar ; when well mixed together, add two more eggs, a spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux with a spoon about three inches long ; dorez and mask them with sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavoured accord- ing to taste, with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the. sugar employed in making them. Choux {Petits) Meringiccs.—Having made and baked a sufficient number of petits choux pralinees, but without al- monds ; cut off the tops, and Mur into them some Italienne cream. Beat the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, adding to them as much powder- sugar as will render them very smooth ; and drop it on the petits choux; strew sugar over this, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. These must be served hot. Choux (Petits) Pralinees.—Chop some Jordan almonds extremely small, and mix them with a small quantity of pound- ed sugar; sprinkle these ingredients over petits choux, which must be drop- ped so as to make them double the usual size. Garnish these as above. Choux d la Reine.—Are made the same way as d la d’Artoise, only drop them on the baking-plate of a round, in- stead of a long form : neither are they glazed. Choux (PefiVi) Basket of, d la Cha?i- till!/.—RoU out some very small choux wiiii a little flour, and bake, but do not glaze them. Boil some clarified sugar to the degree casse ; then, with a small pointed stick, take up thecAo?<a^, and dip them, one at a time, in the sugar, and as yon do this, place them round a but- tered mould, of the form of a basket, or whatever otlier form you may think proper '. butter a hoop of the same size .ns the top of your basket, stick together a single row oichoux, halfway round it, and then fasten it to each side of the basket; fill it with wdth chantilli cream, and serve t. CHUB (Porta/).—Put as much beer- vinegar and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish; a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scide and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled, lay it on a board to drain, let it lie for an hour, put it into a pewter-dish over a chafing-dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. Chub (Broiled).—Scald a chub, cutoff the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the middle, make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broiling with fresh butter and salt, and thyme shred small. Chub (Roasted).—Scale andthoroughly I cleanse a chub ; wash it, and stuff it with sweet herbs, then tie it to the spit with splinters, roast it, keep hasting it with vinegar and butter, well seasoned with salt. CIDER.—See Cyder. CINNAMON Almonds.—Zee Almonds. Ci.vNAMO.v Cakes.—Whisk up hall a dozen eggs with three table-spoons- ful of rose-water; add to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, and a sufficient quan- tity of flour to make it into a paste ; roll it out thin, and cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate, idace them oii paper, and bake them. When done, remove them from the paper. Keep them dry. Cinnamon (Camlied). — Soak cinna- mon in water for four and twenty hours, , and then cut it into pieces about an inch long; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, . and give tue cinnamon a boil in it; drain i and dry it in a stove _ to the proper : consistence; then put it in the moulds ^ with sugar boiled to souffle, and when half cold, dry it. Before the candy is re- ; moved from the moulds, they should i be laid on one side for some time. Keep • them in paper in a dry place. CiNNAJioN, Candied.—Cut some cin- • namon into small sticks of about an inch : or an inch and a half long; then put : them into thin sugar, and boil them as ‘ it were in a syrup. Then take off the pan, and set it by for five or six hours to soak, take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, dry them thoroughly in the stove; afterwards put them in order in tin moulds upon little grates made for the purpose, and set into the moulds, so | that there may be three rows set one > above another, separated by those grates. i In the meantime, lx)il sugar till it is < blown, and pour it into your mould, so that some of it may lie upon the upper- most grate ; then set them in the ^tove with a covered fire, and let them stand