(241 ) F I S F I S very gently, otlierwife the outside will break before the inside is done. Crimp fish must be put into boiling water; and as soon as it boils up, a little cold water should be put in, to check the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done, it will become woollv; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done, it will leave the bone. To keep hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish plate should be placed crossways over the fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg and bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served, should be placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horse- radish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a ■dish which is almost more attended to than any other. To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed, it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs; it will look still belter to be done over with egg and crumbs a second time. Then having on the tire a thick- bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot; put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quick till it io done, and of a nice brown yellow. I If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour, the pan should be drawn to the side of the fire, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, and finish browning; if wanted particu- larly nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when fi done in lard or dri;iplng. Butter should i never he used, as it gives a bad colour. Xlarnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fi-li is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron ; which, when hot. should he rubbed over with suet, to hinder the fc fish from slicking. It should be broiled yi over a VI ey clear fire, to prevent its tast- tl ing smoky, and great care must be taken h not to scorch it. f Fish, New Method of Dressing.*— ® Take any sort of fish you think proper, ’■It being very careful that it is quite fresh; S) clean it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your taste ; then put it (without any moisture), into a pan, which may be closely covered, with the exception of a small hole, to allow of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until the whole is so completely dissolved, that the bones are not perceptible. Wlien cold, this makes a very transparent, well-flavoured jelly. Fish (Aspic o/).—Put some warm sa- vory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould ; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them gently in strong salt and water till done, then lay them on a drainer. VV'hen the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold, put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly, just lukewarm, over the fish, and when that is cold, fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table, dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon the jelly, and turn it over. Pieces of lobsters, fillets of soles, &c., maybe done in the same manner. Fish, Consomme of.*— Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh- water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, and cut them into pieces, as near of a size as may be ; lay them in a stew- pan, on a layer of sliced onions and car- rots : as soon as they begin to sweat, put in a hit of butler, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten them with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered ; this will afford a very Bourishing broth. Fish (Entree of, in a Mould).— Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter; strew grated parmesan cheese over the bottom, about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni, of the same thickness, and upon that, fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and shalnts, chopped very tine, and a little pounded spices and cayenne- pepper, then a layer of macaroni and parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven ; let it bake one hour, llien care- fully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table, with a little good cullis round it. Vi^vi Fritters,— Make a light force- meat with fish of any kind. Then put a small quantity into pieces of puff-paste, the size of a common puff; then fry them in boiling lard; drain them dry. Serve them to table with ti uflles, or lechamcllc sauce round them. Fish, Glaze of.*—Take some fish broth, to which adii an eel, cut in pieces, and the heads, tails, fms, and large bones,