M E A 332 ME A and when three parts done, add them to the rest, and finisli slewing ; aa soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick, take tlie pieces out with a fork, arrange them on a dish according to your taste; lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouilloti. Matelote Hollandoise.*—Take a neck of veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkey’s pinions: put them into a saucepan with some good stock ;■ set them on the fire till about half done, then add a quarter of a pound of rice; cover the whole very close, and let it stew over a small fire for two hours, then take it off’, pour the whole into a dish, and serve it. Matelote Proven(;ale. * — Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast, and cut them in pieces; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish; put them all into a sauce- pan together with a glass of champaign, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six doves of garlic bruised ; boil them to a court-bouillon, as other matelotes', dish them, garnished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MEAD.—To one hundred and twenty gallons of pure water (the softer the bet- ter), put fifteen gallons of clarified honey ; well mix the honey with the water, then fill your copper, (it should hold about sixty gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquar in the same manner. When the last is about a fourth part wasted, fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first; and continue boiling and filling it up till the copper contains the whole of the liquor, by which time it will, of course, be half evaporated. The scum must not be taken off, but must well mix with the liquor whilst boiling, by means of a jet; when this is done, draw it off into under backs, by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it re- main till it is only as warm as new milk. Then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working, stop it down very close, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old, put it into bottles, have it well worked, and keep it in the same vault it stood whilst in the c.ask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic fla- vour, may mix with it elder, rosemary, and marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamums, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglan- tine, marjoram, and rosemary, witli va- rious spices. Mead, to Make.*—To every gallon of water pu t four pounds of honey, boil it an hour. Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast; coveritover. Ifitfer- inents well after three or four days, draw itofl’clear, and put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to every gallon ; add a bot- tle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind of Seville oranges cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a great im- provement to the flavour. It is best to wash the cask round with part of the brandy, before the liquor is put in. Mead Frontiniac.—TaVt fifty pounds of honey, fifty pounds of fine raisins, and fifty gallons of water; boil these about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed; put it in a tub to work, and put to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fall; when taken clear ofti turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers ; take care to attend to it in change of weather; let it continue in the cask for twelve months, and then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. Mead Sack.—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till the following day; then put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fermen- tation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it in the cask for tw’elve months. Mead, to make sjnall.—To a gallon of water put wo pounds of honey, and one pound of sugar; boil it for an liour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum ; skim it quite clean whilst boiling, then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast wi^ honey, to make it work ; then turn it, and put in the peels of three or four lemons, and let it stand a month; and then if it is not sufficiently fine, put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAT (’«Xes.—Take whatever meat, game, or poultry, you may chance to have, (it is the better for l>eing under done); mince it fine, adding a little fat bacon or ham, or anchovy ; season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, and make it into small cakes, about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick; fry them of a light brown, and serve them with good gravy; or put it into a mould, and Iwil or bake it. Meat, to keep it hot.—\f your meat is