GEN ( 264 G FI E somftsalt; then melt the goose-grease which has been preserved, with a good nuantily of hog’s-lard, and pour it into the pot; there must be a sufficient quan- tity to cover tlie birds; tiventy-four hours afterwards close up the pot with parchment, and wlien the wtiole is quite cold, put it in a dry place to keepfor use. When you want to use them, take the pieces of goose out of the fat, and before using, wash them well in warm water. Geese to Truss.—The goose must be first well picked and stubbed, then cut off the pinions at the first joint, and the feet also. Make a slit in the bark of the neck, and take out the throat, cutoff the neck close to the back and the skin, but leave enough to turn over the hack ; make a slit between the vent and the rump, though which draw out the en- trails, then wipe it clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them close to the side, then put a skewer into the wing, through the middle of the leg, body, and the leg and wing on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen ; run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut through the end of the vent, through which put the rump, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. GENOISES.*—Put into an earthen pan six ounces of powder-sugar, six whole eggs (as if for biscuits) a quarter of a pound of flour, the same of sweet almonds pounded, a little orange-flower water, asraall quantity of salt, and about an ounce of butter: mix these ingre- dients together well, l-utter a baking plate, and spread the preparation over it, to the thickness of a half-crown piece; put it into a brisk oven of a proper co- lour, and then cut your g-t'Kowes into such forms as you may fancy : put them into a stove to dry, and then serve them. When you have proceeded thus far, you may, if you think proper, ornament them, whirh is done in the following manner: do them .all over with a glace royaln of different colours according to your taste, and place them in the stove a minute or two to dry the glare ; when cold, garnish them with apple or currant jelly- Genotser Glitces d I’Ilaliennc.*—[lav- ing baked and cut tlie genoises. place them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify and then boil to souffia bait a pound of sugar; as soon as it reache.s that degree take ilie pan from the fire, and set the bottom of it in cold water, take up the sugar, and having whipped the whites of three eggs, mix them hy degrees with the sugar; cover thegcwoiiw with this glace, then ploce them in a stove for a qu.arter of an hour to dry. This glace may be tinged of various colours by adding to it the diflerent articles used for colouring sugar, almonds, &c. See those articles. Genoises, Paste for.*—Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub the rinds of two or three lemons upon a part of the sugar, crush it with the roll- ing pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks and four whole eggs, the butter and sugar; yvork them together well, and hav- ing made your paste, roll it out, and cut it into bands, which roll the size of your little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S’s or horse-shoes; slit the sides and ends, lay tliem on but- tered tins, dnrez, and bake them in an oven, rather hotter than for baking bis- cuits. Ge.noises Small.*—TaVe some almond paste, and having worked ic up well, add to it a little gum-dragon, and a little starch, both in powder. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with powder-sugacj lay the almond paste over it, and sprinkle that also with sifted sugar instead of flour; then take a small round paste-cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to sur- round the tartlet, and about half an inch wide; fix these bands to the tartlets with the white of egg. Putalaj'erof the al- mond-paste on a table-dish, add a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notch- ed, as you please ; place on this layer M many genoises (prepared as above) as it will contain, and then put them in a stove or oven to dry. When wanted for table, fill them according to your taste, with three or four sorts of preserves. GHERKINS.*—Dutch ghcikina are esteemed the best sort; when hoiled, they are used in garnishing salads, and likewise to make ragouts ; they are done in the following manner; boil them a moment in w.ater to take off the strength of the vinegar; then put them into a good sauce or ragout, not allowing them to boil again; serve with any dish you think proper. Gherkins Picklrd. * — Choose the grcene.st gherkins, and having cut offthe tails and heads, ruh them to remove the down-; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar; pour over a sufficient quantity of the best vinegar to cover the gherkins, and let them stand ; after three (lays, dr.aw ell the vinegar, and bail it; when the quan- tity is a little lessened, throw in the gher- kins, and boil them together; then pour the whole into the jar again. In about