{ 73 ) B R E B RE about to advantage when the water boils, to prevent waste. With this copper four boilings will afford two hogsheads of strong beer or table ale, and two of table beer. The malt should be ground four or five days before use,^id be kept very clean. Tlie necessary mgredients being ready, the water must be made to boil rapidly, which done, the copper fire must then be damped. The malt having been pre- viously put into the mashing-tub (re- serving half a bushel) as soon as the steam from the boiling water begins to subside, the water is poured upon it to wet the malt so as to render it of a con- sistence stiff enough to be mashed; it should then remain covered over for a quarter of an hour, when more water is added and it is mashed as before; let it stand fora few minutes, and then add the whole quantity of water, accordingly as it is intended to have the beer more or less strong. Whilst the water is lading on, the mash must be kept stirring with a pole. When well mashed, run the big end af the mash-oar through the middle of it to give it air, then put the spare half bushel of malt upon the mash ; and cover the tub oyer with sacks to keep the steam and spirit of the malt in, and let it remain two hours; then let it run into the receiver, and mash again for the second wort in the same manner as the first, excepting that the water must be cooler, atnd it must not stand more than half the time. Both these worts are now mixed toge- ther, and the quantity of hops determined upon are. added, when the liquor must be put into the copper, which being closely covered, let it boil gently for two hours, then let the liquor into the re- ceiver, and the hops be strained there- from into the coolers. When cool, the barm or yeast, which should be white and sweet, is added, and the liquor well stirred from the bottom with a wooden bowl, turning it up topsy- turvy in the middle of each tub, which occasions the beer to ferment. If, how- ever, it happens that in about two hours the fermentation is not favourable, it has been checked ; in which case, put the mash-oar. &c. across the tubs, and cover them with sacks to encourage the fer- mentation ; when the last thing at night, and the first in the morning should be the stirring them well up again. Be careful that the tnlm he not too full to work over in the night. The next morning, skim the greater part of the yeast off', and prepare to tun it. , Let the casks be taken quite clean and warm into the cellars, which pro- motes the beer’s working. It is recom- mended to fling a gallon or two of boiling water in each, and turn it out again. Examine the cork and vent hole*, and when the casks are filled, reserve some spare beer, that as it works in the casks you may fill them up in the cellars for the waste. As soon as full, take two pounds of fine wheat flour, and beat it up smooth with some of the new beer in a pail, with a wisp, and divide it between the two casks, keeping it well stirred up near the bottom for a quarter of an hour. The flour thus prepared, gives to beer and ale a fine soft quality, and, while under fermentation, adds to its flavour, its mantling, &c. When this flour is put in the casks, each should be stirred with a long stick for a few minutes; then put the tin scoop into the upper cork-hole for the beer to work through, and attend to it three or four times a day, particularly the last thing at night, and first in the morning ; and when the fermentation is done work- ing, which is usually an operation of three or four days, clean the outsides of the casks, and put in the beer, the hops saved in the pail, equally divided into each, stirring them about, which opera- tion fines all beers, and then bung them tight down with a piece of coarse linen cloth under the bung, if completely done working, but not else. For small, or table beer, there must be a third mashing. Reseiwe a pail-ful! of the strong beer to add to the small. Let the water, already heated ki the cop- per, when within a few minutss of boil- ing, be poured on the malt, keeping it mashed as before; then add the pail of strong, and cover it over with sacks as before mentioned, with the mash oar standing in the middle, and let it remain an hour. Then fill the copper with the liquor, and let it boil very gently for an hour. The same preparation of fl.our and beer, should in the like proportion be added to the table beer. For good substantial strong beer or ale. and of fine flavour, there should be al- lowed one pound of hops for every bushel of malt. Hops that .are good, and entirely free from .adulteration, should be of a fine, sweet smell, full of ripe seed, of a clear pale yellow colour, and clammy, which evinces their strength ; such an article ameliorates and preserves ail beers. The best bops arc those produced in Kent. The great secret of fining all beers, to render them of a clear brilluant colour, is to take out three quarters of a p.ailful of the hops from the copper, when they have boiled an hour; for this simple