CAR 122 CAR quantity of wine to cover your fiali, let the whole boil quickly for two hour.*, then add some pieces of fried bread. When the fish is quite done, and the sauce reduced, |)eur the whole into a larire dish, and serve it very hot. _Cahp Sauce.—Cut up a carp in large bits, and put it info a stewpan, with a lewslices ofbacon, ham,veal, twoonions, one carrot, and half a parsnip; soak it till it catches a little; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little cullis, a fagot of parsley, chibbol, a clove of garlick, two of spices, and a laurel leaf; simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. Carp Stewed.*—Meltapiece ofbutter, worked up wi th some flour in a stewpan ; when it is a little browned, mix with it a glass of soup maigre, and add some small onions, cut in slices; then put in your carp, season with sal^ pepper, laurel, and add a pint of red wine; let it boil slowly till quite done, and the sauce is reduced ; then serve. Carp Stewed.*—Scale and clean your carp, cut it in pieces; brown some but- ter with a pinch of flour, put in some small onions ; add butter, parsley, chib- bol, shalots, thyme, laurel, mushrooms, grated nutmeg; moisten it with equal quantities of bouillon and red wine, put your carp into this seasoning, and stew it over a good Are. When it is done, serve your carp upon a dish, with toasted bread under it, and pour the sauce over the whole. Carp S/merf.*—Bleed them in the tail, wash them clean, put them in a stew- pan, with a pintof claret, a pint of gravy, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, two anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, some lemon-peel, some horse-radish sliced, nutmeg sliced, and some whole pepper tied in a cloth, when the carp is sufficiently done, strain ofT the sauce ; then put in a little lemon juice ; thicken the sauce with burnt butler. Carp Stewed with /Fine.—Take a carp ; being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and a few pepper corns; let it stew gently between two fires till well done, then take it out, lay it on a dish; the liquor must stew with three spoonsful of sauce tournee, till tolerably tbick ; if not quite smooth, squeeze it through a tammy ; put in the juice of a lemon, with a very little cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. Carp Tongue.i. Rneoiit c/.*—Blanch about an hundred carp tongues in water. H'ith a little salt and vinegar; drain ; them well; have ready two spoonsful of i aUemunde. and the same of vetoute, and j boil it up; add to it, by degrees, a pound i of butter ; put in the tongues, and finish j it with lemon-juice. Carp Roes in Aspic.* — Prepare an | aspic, as directed for cock's-combs in i aspic, and fill it with carp roes, lioiled , and well seasoned. Carp Roes, d la Bellevue.—Scald the .j roes in warm water, and prepare a stew- pan with thin slices of bacon, and one slice of ham ; add to this a scalded sweet- ;i bread, a fagot of sweet herbs, onions ,i cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of | white wine, whole pepper, and a little , salt (or none, if the ham is not very ■ fresh); when the sweetbread is almost i brazed enough, put the roes to it, a lit- J tie broth, and about two dozen of cray- , fish tails picked ; simmer together about a quarter of an hour_, then put the i sweetbread into the middle of the dish, i with two or three of the onion-rings upon i it, which you baste with whites of eggs i to make them stick the better ; fill them i with cray-fish spawn boiled a moment in a good cullis, and the roes and cray-fish i tails round separately; add some good rich culli.s to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes only. Carp Roes, Caisses of.*—Blanch thirty well-washed carp loes ; drain them ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, cham- pignons, parsley, shalots (all chopped > small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other ' spice; do these lightly over the fire, . taking care not to let them take colour; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make around cnijie. . at the bottom of which lay a qratin : oil : the caisse well and put it on tiie griairon i over hot ashes; place the roes on the gratin, and broil them thus. When done,take them from the caisse, and dish them. Carp Roes. Dutch Fashion.—Boil a . dozen of small white onions, scalded in half a pint of white wine, a fagot of sweet herbs, a good fait of butter, pepper and salt; when three parts done, put scalded carp roes into it. and finish the boiling (they require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender); reduce the sauce pretty thick; put the rocs into the middle of the dish, and the onions round ; mix a little spinach-juice with the sauce, to give it a pale grwn colour, or a strong green if yon think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in tlie bottom of the dish, and the rc.st upon it ; garni.sh it round with fried broad. Carp roes are also dressed