ROU ( 440 ) R 0 S ■ Roses, Oilo/'.*—Take tliree pounds of picked roses, and distil them by bain- marie in two quarts of brandy. Dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of river water, boil it up twice; when cold, add to it half a pound of double-distilled rose-water; mix it with the brandy, filter, and bottle it. This liqueur is greatly improved by dissolving the sugar in cold rose-water. Rose iVater, Double-distilled*—The rose generally chosen for this purpose, is the common pale (single or double) lose, but the white rose is best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun-rise; take out the calix, and se- parate the leaves, pound them in a mar- ble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them into a large close cloth, and let two persons wring it uiith all their strength. Having by this operation obtained four pounds of juice, infuse in it an equal weight of fresh rose-leaves for twenty- four hours ; at the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand-bath, and distil it according to rule. (See Distilling.) When you have collected about an ounce of the water, unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded first, continue the operation ; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this se- cond \yater is only single, and must be kept separate from the first, which is the Essential fVater. Should the se- cond water have an unpleasant smell (caused by the application of too much heat), expose it to the sun fora few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distilling this and alt other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following metliod:—Gather as many roses as will afford thirty pounds of leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in layers with salt between each, press them closely, cork them tight, leave the vessel twelve days, and then distil as usual. Rose /Firfer, Putfourpounds of rose leaves into a pan, with three quarts of river water, and leave it four- and-twenty hours ; _thcn put it into a me- tal alembic, and distil Irom it ns much odoriferous water as you can, being sure to stop the moment you observe the phleghm. Takeoff the alembic, throw away its contents, and rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two-thirds with fresh- gathered rose-leaves, on which pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose-water as it will yield, let the fire go out gradually. Rose Vinegar.* — Infuse rose-leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be exposed to the sun for ten days ; ihen draw it off, pressall the liquor from the dregs, filter and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSEMARV Vinegar.* — This is made in the same manner as Lavender Vinegar. ROSSOLIS.*—Take three quarters of a pound of picked orange-flowers, a pound of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, and two of cloves (both bruised) ; put them into a cucurbite with three gallons of pure water; on distilling this, it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve twelve pounds of fine su- gar broken up ; add to it an equal quan- tity of spirit of jessamine, colour it crim- son with cochineal, filterand bottle it. ROTI, Sans Pureil.* — Fill a good- sized olive with chopped capers and an- chovies, soak it in oil, and put it into a becca-Jica, orany other equally delicately flavoured small bird; enclose this in a larger one, such as an ortolan; then take a lark, cut off the head and feet, put the ortolan in it, cover it with a thin slice of bacon, the lark into a thrush, the thrush into a quail, the quail into a lapwing, this into a plover, then a partridge, en- close the partridge in a woodcock, then a teal, a turkey-poult, a wild duck, a pullet, and a pheasant, cover this latter with a goose, after which a turkey, and enclose the whole in a bustard. If in proceeding as above, any spaces are left, fill them up with a farce made of truffles, chesnuts, and sausage-meat; put it into a large saucepan with small onions stuck with cloves, caiTot”, ham, cut in small pieces, celery, a bouquet garni, a mi- gnonette, slices of bacon, a clove or two of garlic, pepper, salt, spices, and co- riander ; set your saucepan on a gentle fire or in a moderate oven for twenty- four hours; skim, and serve it very hot. ROUX.*—Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, shake it about till dissolved, when add a sutlicient quantity of sifted flour, to make it the consistence of thick bouilli; then set it over a fierce. stove, and stir it until it begins to take colour, when make a good fire of cinders, place the roi/.ronit, and let it stand to increase in colour; it ought to be of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it ns occasion may require. Roux, n'hitc.*—Prepare your butter and flour as above, place it on a mode- rately heated stove, stirring it constantly till very hot; be careful that it does not