LAM ( 307 ) L A R Saucetake some colouring for sauce, add an onion cut small, parsley, mush- rooms, capers, an anchovy, minced fine, some pepper and salt; add a little fish- broth, and thicken it with some fish cullis; boil it, and strain it over the fish. Lamprey, Broiled.—Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put it into a pan with white or red wine, a little butter, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, car- rots, pai'snips, thyme, bay-leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done, drain and dip it in butter; cover it with bread-crumbs, and broil it slowly, baste itivith oil or butter. Serve it dry. Lampreys, to Fry.—Cut ofiF the heads, and save the blood, that runsfrom them; then wash them well in warm water, dry tliem in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done; pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine; shake the pan round, put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay- leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood ; shake the pan round frequently, and cover them close. When tney are done, take them out; strain off the sauce; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. Lamprey d V Italienne. — Put two onions, chopped very small, into a stew- pan, with apiece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, .md a pint of red wine; set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced ; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over, and serve. Lamprey, Matelote of.*—Take two lampreys, put them into boiling water; take out the entrails, and cut the fish into pieces. Make a roux, into which put the lampreys (except the heads and tails); give them a few turns; then add white wine, small onions, (previously tossed up in a little butter)’, some mush- rooms, a bunch of sweet herbs seasoned, salt and pepper; stew these, skimming frequently. When ready for table, put tiie blood of the lampreys to the matelote, and serve it; garnish with fried bread and cray-fish. Lampreys to Bof.—Scald and scrape them, take out the insides, especially the black string;, season with pepper, salt, and mace : put themintoa pan, and bake them in a slow oven: when they are done, take them out of the gravy, put them in a clean pan, and cover them witli clarified butter. Lamprey au Restaurant.*—Cut yotir fish in pieces, put it into a stewpan with some melted butter trufiles and morels, cut in thin slices; when they are nearly done, add red wine, salt, pepper, a bit oi sugar about the size of an almond, and some fried bread; finish the dressing, and serve them in their gravy. Lampreys, Stewed. — Clean the fish very carefully, then remove the carti- lage which runs down the back, and sea- son with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry ; cover it close, and let it stew till tender ; then take out the lamprey and keep hot; while you boil up ihe liquor with two or three anchovies chop- ped, and some flour and butter, strain the gravy through a sieve; add lemon- juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. LAPWIN GS.—They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild- duck. LARD (i/o^’a).—The lard should be carefully melted ina jar, put into a kettle of water, and boiled; run it into bladders that have been particularly well cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better, for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This being a very useful article in fry- ing fish, it should be prepared with great care. Mixed with batter, it makesafine crust. LARKS.—These delicate little birds are in high se.ison in November. When they are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, truss them; do them over with the yolk of egg, and then roll them in bread-crumbs; spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to roast them in before a quick fire; whilst they are roasting, baste them with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs till they are well covered with them. Fry some grated bread in butter, set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish under the lai-ks, and garnish with slices of lemon. . Larks.—Roast them, larded and co- vered with bacon ; or you may only cover one half with bacon, and lard the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side-dish, they may be served a variety of ways. Larks en Caisscs.—Pick, bone, and stuff your larks ; have ready some small paper cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks into balls, and put one, with a little farce underneath, into each case. Set them on a baking tin, covered with a