HAM 280 HAM inches thick, and havingf moistened the surface of your red paste witii water, co- ver it with the white paste in imitation of the fat, taking care to make it thinner towards the knuckle and sides (as in real ham) than at the higher parts. Then boil a quarter of a pound of chocolate in about a quarter of a pint of water, stir- ring constantly till it is tolerably thick, dip a hair pencil into it, and do the ham over with it several times, until it forms a kind of crust, like the rind ; this may be covered with crushed macaroons, to resemble the rasped bread with which a boiled ham is generaliy covered. The chocolate must be kept vvai m whilst the latter operation is being performed, as otherwise it will become quite hard ; the flavour is greatly improved by adding vanilla to the chocolate. Hare a la Manute.—Take a hare that has been kept some time, and cut it into pieces ; boil the liver, and put all toge- ther into a stewpan, with about an ounce of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, and half a dove of garlic; cover it close, and turn it in eight or ten minutes; a quarter of an hour will cook it sulficiently: lay the meat in a dish, add a little broth and vinegar to the sauce, and when pretty thick, pour it on the hare. Ham ari Naturel.*—Take a fine large ham, trim it in the following manner: takeoff the rind, and every particle of yellow which may be on the fat, take nfl' also, the end bone, cut the knuckle, and soak the ham, and cook it as directed, (ham a la gelce). When sufficiently done,untie Ihenapkin, take out the bone, then tie it again, lay it in a deep dish and let it cool ; trim it, and do it over with raspings ; serve it on a napkin. Ham Omelet.*—Take a slice of boiled ham, mince it as small as possible, and mi.'c it with a dozen eggs beaten with a little veal gravy; fry it (keeping it of an equal thickness) in the usual man- ner. Haji Pie.—Bone a fine ham, and trim it properly, taking care to cut off all the yellow fat; soak it according to its age, and then biaise it on slices of beef, a pound of bacon (beaten in a mortar), the same quantity of lard and butter, plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and wliole pepper. When about three parts done, take it out, and let it cool; then make a thick raised crust, put the ham into it. with all the braise, except the beef anti herbs, a large glass of brandy ; bake it for an hour, and serve it cold. Ha.m Pie.*—Dress a fine ham as for la getee (see that article); make a farce as follows take a sons noix of veal, and mince it very small, with an equal quantity of bacon, and the trimmings of the hairi when cold (minced small also); season it with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs, shred small; then take all the ingredients, and pound them toge- ther, adding occasionally, a small quan- tity of jelly. Take three pounds of paste for raised crust, of which form the bot- tom and sides of your pie, put it on two sheets of buttered paper ; lay wme of the farce at the bottom of your pie, cut the ham in half, lay one piece on the farce, season, and cover it with the farce; then put in the other piece, season that also, and fill up your pie with the remainder of the farce, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; moisten the. borders of the pie, and put on the top, fasten the edges toge- ther, decorate the crust, and add, if oulike, a false top of puft-paste; make a ole in the middle, dwez, and bake it in a hot oven for three or four hours; if, in the meanwhile, it is inclined to lake too high a colour, cover it with a wet paper. Hau PoUetl.—Take a pound of cold, boiled, lean ham, and pound it to fine paste, with a quarter of a pound of the fat. or some fresh butter ; season it to your taste, with mace, allspice, pepper, and nutmeg (all in powder). Press it into potting dishes, pour clArified butter over it, and keep it in acool place. Ham (Ragodt of).—Cut some thin slices of ham, and having beaten them well, lay them at the bottom of a stewpan ; place a dish over them, and set the saucepan on a stove till they begin to Slick; then put in a little flour, and keep the pan moving; moisten with a little veal gravy that has no s.alt in it, add pepper and sweet herbs, and simmer over a slack fire ; add veal and ham cuUis to thicken ; set it before the fire, basting it well till it is a clear brown. In the meanwhile, take the fat from the gravy, thicken it with the yolk of an egg, add to it half a dozen hard eggs chopped small, and some pickled cnciiinbers cut very thin; pour this sauce into a dish, place the ham in it, and serve. Ham Ilagodf, u'iih Street Sauce.*— Toss up a few slices of ham in a sauce- pan ; make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a niacaixion, cinnamon, and su- gar, all pounded I put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. Ham Roasted with Madeira.*—Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham. pare and trim it of as round a form as possi- ble, take oH' the end lionc, and remove the rind from the knuckle; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take it up with case ;soak it, if neces-