CAB BUT (88 a spoon take oil'the scum. When clear, it is lit for use. Butter Layopen three clean coarse cloths, one over the otlierj put a pint of thick cream in the upper one, tie it up in them as close and tight as possible. Bury it in the earth in a dry place, eighteen inches deep, for tiventy-four hours. Tlie next morning put the cream into a cool earthen pan, and stir it up with a wooden spoon, for five minutes in the summer, and a quar- ter of an hour in the winter, when you will have a lump of cool, fresh, and most delicious butter, for the breakfast table. V Butter Drops.—Take three eggs, leave out half the whites, half a pound of flour, half a poujid of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two spoonsful of rose-water, a little mace and seeds. Butter (Fair;/).—Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoonful of orange-flower water, and two spoonsful of fine sugar ; beat all to a fine paste, add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the churn, and force all to- gether through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. Buttered Loaves.—Beat up the yolks of a dozen eggs, with half of the whites, and half a pint of yeast; strain them into a dish, season with salt, and a little powdered ginger, then make it into a high paste with flour ; lay it in a warm cloth for a quarter of an hour; then make it up into little loaves, and bake them, melt a pound and a half of butter, with a quarter of a pint of white wine, and half a pound of sugar, and liquor them with it. Butter de Montpellier.* — Put the yolks of twelve hard eggs into a mortar, with a green ruvigoie scalded, (see Ravi- gote), six anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, six pickled cucum- bers, some salt and pepper ; pound all these well together, until they form a paste; then add the yolks of two raw eggs, bruising them with the pestle, and then gradually pour upon, and mix with your ingredients, a pound and a half of oil of olives, and a little vineg.'tr, until the whole becomes of the consistence of new butter, then pass it through a sieve; if your butter is not sufficiently green, you must add a little spinach juice. Butter de Montpellier is commonly used for cold entries : and a little ga. lie may be added, according to taste. BvTTf.v. {Preserved), for H'ii '■ )■ Use. Take two parts of the best unmon salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, -d one part saltpetre; beat them well twether. To sixteen ounces of butter, tho 'ughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of the above composition ; work it well, and put it into pots, when quite firm and cold. Buiter ( Proveni;ale), Sauce.*—Pound a few cloves of garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan ; pour some good olive-oil; stir them together, until they form a lump like butter. Salt it to your taste. Butter {to roust).—htiy a pound of butter in salt and water for two or three hours; put it on a spit, and rub it all over with crumbs of bread, mixed with grated nutmeg ; put it to the lire, and as it roasts, ba-ste it with the yolks of tw’o eggs, and crumbs of bread ; stew a pint of oysters in their own liquor, and when the bread has completely imbibed all the gravy, brown it, and lay it in a dish, with the stewed oysters under it. Butter Sauce.—Put nearly half a pound of good fresh butter into a sauce- pan, with a quart of sauce tournee, pro- perly reduced ; stir till they are well mixed together. Butter {Thickened).* — Melt what quantity of butter you may require ; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs, and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the lire; add a little lemon- juice. Butter and Sweet Herbs.* — Take some chervil, half the quantity of pim- pernel, chives, tarragon, and cress ; scald and chop the whole very small, then mix it with some good fresh butter. C CABBAGES d VAllemande. — Take some very small headed cabbages, and, after blanching, cut them up rathersmall, and turn them a few times over the fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard; when nearly done, moisten with a little gravy or jelly-broth, and serve with bacon or sau- sages. Cabbage and Bacon.*—Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters. and put it into a stewpan, with a piece of streaked bacon; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil, then let it stew over a moderate tire ; when done, dress the cabbage on a dish, with the Iwiccn over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked «ith some flnur, and then serve it over the bacon .and cab- bage. Cabbage {to (o>7).—Haying cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. When it is tender, drain it on a sieve, but never