V E A ( 489 ) VEA with a little butter, champif?non8 (pre- viously dressed), parsley, slmlots, pep- per, suit, and nutmeg ; set the pan on tlie fire; a few minutes are quite sufficient to do the mince ; wlien done, take it out. Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and a little reduced espapiole into the pan ; slir it round, add a lutle more butter, pour it over the kidney, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and serve. Veal Kidney Toasts.—Mince a roast- ed kidneys mince also half its fat; season it well with pepper and salt, chopped shalots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil; mix all together vvith the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices of bread of an equal thickness, or cut into any shape you please, and smoothed over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince, bread-crumbs, put them into a baking dish upon thin slices of bacon, and put them into the oven ; when sufficiently baked, drain oft the fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth; serve with a little gravy under them. Veal, Knuckle of, Boiled. — Break the bones that it may require less room ; wash it well; put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it, to give it a slight degree of thickness. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and serve this either over the meat, or separately. Veal, Knuckle of. Fried and Stewed. —Fry the knuckle with onions cut in slices, and butter, to a nice brown colour; and have in readiness some peas, let- tuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water ; add these to the veal, and let all stew together till the meat is tender. Add pepper, salt, and a very little mint, shreQ fine, and serve the whole together. Veal, Le^ of, en Surprise.—Lard the veal with slips of bacon, and a little lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oysters, chopped small, and stuft your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it; let it stew very gently till quite tender; then take it up; skim off the fat from the liquor, and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom ketchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine, half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter, rolled in flour, let this sauce thicken over the fire, and serve it over the veal; garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in butter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted bacon. VeaIj,Loin of, (I la Becharnellc.—Chop out the inner bone from a nice white loin of veal, and trim it that it will lay smooth on the dish ; chop oft' part of the chump end, and put it down to roast; let it be well done; have a sauce pre- pared, and a few minutes before the veal is to be served, take it up, and cut a deep square hole close to where the chump was cut off; mince the lean you have cut out extremely fine, put it into the hot heehamelle sauce, and pour it again into the hole; serve it to table with a well buttered toast under the kidney, and plenty of gravy. Veal (Jhofn o/) Elonffee.*—Bone this joint, and trim it of an oblong form ; sea- son the under part with salt and pepper, tie it up, and put it into a braising-pan, with three quarters of a pound of butter, set it on the fire, and when quite hot, cover the pan ; let it stand on a slow fire, turning it occasionally for three hours and a half. The joint thus cooked may be served simply as a remove to soup, or glazed, or cold, with a jelly round it. Veal {Loin of), luith ifgg'oiff.—Pre- pare the loin the same as with hecha- melle, only take particular care that it is not roasted of too high a colour; pre- pare a ragodt made with truffles, mush- rooms, cock’s-combs, livers, &c. &c., artichoke bottoms, well stewed; lay your veal in the centre of the dish, place the artichokes round, and pour the ra- goiU round and over the artichoke ; serve it to table. Veal {Loin of) Roasted.—Spit the loin, roast and baste it with butter ; place under it a dish with some vinegar, a lit- tle sage, rosemary and thyme; let the gravy drop into this dish ; when the veal is done, take it up, make the herbs and gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with the meat. Veal {Loin of) Roasted.—Tha fat of the loin must be papered; roast it the same as the fillet. Veal {Neck of) Boiled.—Chop off the chine bone from a fine white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water,_ boil it very gently, taking care to skim it well; when done, serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or gar- nished with tongue or ham. Veal {Neck of) a la Creme.*—Take a handsome sh.apcd neck of veal, bone and cut out all the sinews, soak it in milk for four and twenty hours ; then take it out, dry it well, sprinkle it with salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, fasten it to the spit, and roast it for two hours and a half, basting it with bechamelle. When done, put a bit of glaze, a liitle pepper and nutmeg to the bichamolle;