B E R ( CO ) B I R BEER (lo Sweeten).—To a kilderkin of beer, throw in at tlie biiOK a quart of oatmeal, lay the bung on loose for two or three days, then stop it down close, and let it stand a month. Some throw in a piece, of clialk tiie size of a turkey’s egg ; and when it has done working, stop it close for a month, then tap it. BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest over the fire, with a little cinnamon or three bay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour it by degrees on a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream i-eady mixed up. Stir all exceedingly well together; sweeten to the palate, and bake it either in tins or cups. BEET Root.*—May be either baked or boiled ; it will take from an hour and a half to three hours, according to the size of the root, to cook properly. _ RootFricnssie.*—Put it in a stew- pan with a little butter, shred parsley, ecallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt and pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with white sauce. Beet Root Pickled.—Boil the roots tender, peel, and cut them in what shape you please. Put them into a jar, and pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pepper, ginger, and sliced horse-radish. You may add capsicums and cayenne. Beet Root /’resetwrf.*—The roots should be peeled and cut in thick slices, and placed in a pan under hot ashes for about five or six minutes, before you put them into a brine made of salt and water, and a quart of vinegar. Beet Root Stewed.—Boil them tender with the skin on ; slice it into a stewpan, with a little broth, some small onions, and a spoonful of vinegar: simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; take off the skin just before you serve. BENJAMIN( 0// of). Beat six ouirces of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of tartar and rose-water, of each a pound. Then distil in an alembic, and put it by for use. BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large .spoonsful of vinegar. Serve cold, with roast beef, hot or cold. Benton Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and three spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice of four or five lemons, and some sifted sugar, with a w'ooden spoon ; add to this twentv drops of essence of bergamot; mix it well in, and having stirred it over the fire three or four minutes, drop it about the size of a sixpence on writing paper, and let them stand till cold. Beugamot IVufers.— Squeeze six le- mons into a basin, and mix some sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and tlie white of an egg, with the juice; beat them togethe.r till very white; it it be- comes too thick, add tlie juice of another lemon ; spread your pa-ste, and dry them as burberry wafers. Bb!igamot fCater.—To the rinds of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water ; draw off one gallon by the bain marie, and sweeten with sugar. Bergamot Water.—Take three gills of syriip, the juice of six lemons, and when diluted sufficiently with water, add a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. Strain it through a fine sieve for use. Bergamot Water Ice.—Stir together the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, half a pint of water, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain and freeze it. BETON Y, Conserve of.—Take a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the sugar with two quarts of betony water to the tliickness of a syrup, then mix them together by little and little, over a gen- tle fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in glasses. Betony Flower Water.—Take betony flowers, sprinkle them with white wine or water, let them infuse for two days, then distil them in a bain marie. Bildoquet Fritters.—Break five eggs into two handfuls of flour, work them to- gether with some milk, then put in some salt and work it again ; when well made put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same of grated lemon-peel, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very small: puton a stewpan, rub it over with butter, and put in the paste; stew it gently over a stove, taking care that it does not stick to the pan. When suffi- ciently done, lay it in a dish, set on a stewpan with a large quantity of lard; when it boils, cut out the paste in pieces the size of a finger, cut it across at each end, dip each into the lard and fry them, but not too much, as they will rise too high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, sift over more sugar, and serve. Birch /Cine.—The season for procur- ing the liquor from the birch-trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is come forward and the leaves appear, the juice, by la'ing long oigested in the hark, grows thick and coloured, which before was while and clear.