BEE { o3 ) BEE anJ the spiced salt which you had pi-e- viously put apart. Cover tlie wliole with buttereii paper. After it has boiled for halt* an hour, place it by the side of the st )ve and let it simmer for five hours ; then put it into a cool place, and let it cool in' its own liquor. When it is cold place your beef upon a dish, pass your liquor through a napkin, then take the ham and the bacon (which have been boiled with the beef), and mince them with a pound of fillet of veal, adding to this mince twelve drachms of spiced salt, four spoonsful of finely chopped herbs, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and one spoonful of velouie. Put this farce into a pan, and add an ox pa- late d I'icarlaie cut into little dice. This preparation finished, take some paste and form it into a round, to answer the purpose of a dish; put half of t\\e farce into the bottom of your paste spredding itall about; then trim your beef so that it will easily go into the paste without spoiling the form of the paste; put the trimmings of the beef upon the farce which you have put at the bottom of the paste, then place upon it the beef, strew over itan ounce of spiced salt, and mash the beef with the rest of the/arce; and cover the whole with a pound of butter, and .some lards of bacon ; then cover with paste, ornament your pie, and put it in an oven, and let it bake for four bouns. After it is baked pour into your pie the liquor in which the beef was boiled; this liquor ought not to exceed three glasses fall; if it does exceed this quantity it must be reduced ; then close the pie very carefully with more paste. These pies are extremely delicious, and very useful in travelling ; but they never grace the Parisian tables ; they are usually made to send as presents to the different provinces, to celebrate some grand hunting parties. Bekf Pies raised with Truffles.— Bone a small fat rump of beef, daub it vvith slips of fat bacon, put it into a raised crust with light force meat and plenty of whole_ peeled green trufUes round it; «)ver it with the paste, garnish and bake it two hours ; then add a sauce, made with a pint of veal broth, a gill of lemon pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped shalltos and cayenne pepper ; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours after- wards, cut the top off the pic, skim it free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it to table. Beef Partugal.—T&Vc moat from a nimp of beef, cut it across. Hour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chosnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pep- per ; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender, cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish ; strain the gravy, put to it pickled gherkins chopped, aiid some broiled chesnuts. Thicken with burnt butter, and boil it up two or three times; sea- son with salt, pour it over the beef, gar- nish with lemon, and serve it. Beev(.Potted).*—Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lay three or four days, then cut it in pieces, and boil it; then beat it to a powder, .mi.^ ing vvith it some fat, add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. Beef (Potted).—Take two pounds of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and two pounds of best fat bacon. Cut them small, put them in a rnarble mortar, add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, four slialots chopped fine, some pepper,salt, twospoon- fuls of essence of ham, a spoonful of mush- room powder, sifted mace, cloves and all- spice, a little of each, two eggs beaten, and a gill of rhenisli wine. Pound all well together till quite fine ; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with paper, bake it very gently for forty mi- nutes, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Beef Potted.—Take three pounds of lean beef, salt it two orthi ee days vvith half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre ; divide it info pieces of a pound each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in half a pint of water; cover it close with paste, and set it in a very slow oven for four hours: when taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin', shred the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marbie mortar vvith fresh butter, till it becomes a fine paste, season it with black pepper and allspice, or cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg ; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a vveight on it, and let it stand all night; next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. Beef, Potted like Venison.—Take a whole thin Hank of beef, pull off the in- ward skin, and slash it across and across, particularly in the thickest parts ; lay it for six hours in pump water, take as much hard salt, or saltpetre, as the quantity of an e«g, mixed with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly H pint of wine vinegar, and thenlet it lay for three or four days, turning and rubbing it once a day ; then rinse ic out