END ( 235 ) ESP cloves, and the juice of a lemon. Serve it very hot. Endive, RagotU of-—Take three or four heads of the whitest endive; put them in salt and water for iwo or three hours; cut otr the green heads from a hundred of asparagus, and chop the rest email, as far as they are tender ; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery, washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three inches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, and some whole pepper tied in a rag, with a pint of water; stew it till it is quite tender, then put in the asparagus, shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the asparagus is done; take the endive out of the water, drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine; cover the pan very close, and let it boil till it is sufficiently done, then put in a quarter of a pound of but- ter, rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan ; then take up the endive; a put the whole head in the centre of a dish ; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of t the endive over that, and keep it hot; K pour the liquor into the stewpan, stir it I all together; have ready the yolks of a i couple of eggs, beat up with some cream ; t put in a little salt, some grated nutmeg ; mix this ivell with the sauce; keep it stirring one way till it is thick ; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. Endive Soup.—This is a clear soup, made in the same manner as lettuce ro soup. Be careful to wash the endive ■w well, and pick out the bitter parts. Endive Stewed.—Take a dozen heads V of the very best endive: pick ott' what 0 you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water, with , a good handful of salt; when done, lay •ifl them on a sieve to drain, and tie eacli 1-4 separate with packthread, and lay them between lards of fat bacon, and stew them :ii gently in good strong consomme; take )\( them out ol the consomme, and lay them Id in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive tight up in the cloth for a minute or two, then r'H open the cloth, and cut the endive in jij pieces, about six indies in length; lay •ij them on a dish; have ready a sauce d 4' VEspagnnle, with a bit of butter mixed IS in it, and a squeeze of lemon ; when this u(| sauce is very hot, pour it over the en- ■li dive, and serve it to table. 11 Endive au I'eloute.*—Take off'all the 1*1 outer leaves of your endive, and havinr opened the hearts, put them into cold M water to wash them. In the mean while heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, then throw in the endive; keep it constantly under the water, to prevent their turning black. As soon as the endive is tender, drain, and then put it into cold water, and when quite cold, drain it again ; press the water out with your hands; then chop it small, and put it into a saucepan, with some butter, salt, and pepper, stir it w'ell, and then add five spoonsful of velouti, the same of consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish, with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case, put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. Entree.* — There is no word pre- cisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher’s meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed for the first course, is called an entree. ENTREMET.* — There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, every thing that appears in the second course, except the roast, is called an entremet. ESPAGNOLE. — Take an old fowl, and about fourteen pounds of leg_ or shoulder of veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, with very little water, into a large saucepan, with two carrots, three onions, a pound of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic; let this stew over a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, till it becomes of a brown colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water, to come about four inches above the meat. Set it by the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes Irom the bones; then strain it through a siik sieve, and set it by for use. Espagnolb ( Grande). * — Take two noix of veal, a pheasant, or four par- tridges, half a noixol ham, four or five large carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with five cloves); put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine, and a ladlefiil of jelly: set it over a large fiie, to re- duce it, then place it on a slow fire, until sliglitly coloured ; take it ofl, and let it stand about ten minutes. Prepare some sous-noix as directed for Grande Sauce, *“>_d add (the liqiior to i\\Q. Espagnole; fkim it well, ana put in some roux, two or three bny-leaves. a little thyme, mush- rooms, parsley, scallions, ai.ii slialots. As soon as the sauce boils, set the saucepan by the side of a stove, to let it do more gently, fortwoor three hours. Be very careful that your saucepan be J