F I S F I S 242 of either sea or river fish : wash them perfectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour, strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. Fish Gravy—Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan, with rather more water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it simmer gently till it is rich and good ; brown a little bit of butter iw a stewpan, and when it is browned, strain the gravy into it, and let it boil for a few minutes. Fish Gravy.—Skin two or three eels, or some flounders; gut and wash them thoroughly ; cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan : cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread, toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a little horse-radish, about a tea- spoonful ; cover close, and let it simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. Fish Ch'avy. * — Put some slices of onion into a stewpan, and set them on the fire ; when they are completely dis- solved, add a piece of butler, and some small fish,or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other you find convenient. As soon as they begin to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put a glassful of root broth to them, and boil them for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and boil it another half hour, when it may be pressed through a sieve, with great force. Fish Catsup. * — Take rather more limn a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper, pounded very fine, plenty of shalots and horse-radish, the peel of half a lemon, and two or three bay-leaves, and a pound of anchovies; let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strain, and when cold, put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. Fish Patties.—Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, boil them a little; half stew six oysters ; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar, with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; mix them well together; make some rich puff- paste, line the tins with it, then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster, and a bit of butter; put on the top, and bake them. Fish, /•’afe Chaud of.*- -Cut a piece of salmon into scallops, heat six ounces of fresh butter, and put into it two spoons- ful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truffles, and a shalot blanched, all shred very small, alittle nutmeg and salt; soak the scallops in this, and place them one by one within the pate chaud (see that article), pour over them the ibutter that remains, two bay-leaves, and cover the whole with slices of bacon. Finish the imti according to rule, and bake it aa hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. When done, garnish it with carp roe^ cray-tish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms and truffles, and a good Espagnole or tomata sauce. Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh sal- mon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon or had- docks, into moderate sized pieces; then roll them into a mixture made of pars- ley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, some beaten spices, powder of mush- rooms or truffles, pepper and salt; put them into a deep dish with some light forcemeat round ; cover with puff’paste; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste, bake it till the fish is perfectly done; and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table, put in some good strong cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. Fish Pie.—Take any sort of fish you please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, &c., and scale it. and cut it into pieces; then line a pie-dish with crust, and put the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and bruised spice.«. and a layer of butter at the top; after this put on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done, take off'the fat, and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner Stir a little flour with butter over the fire till it is of a fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soup-maigre, or warm water, and add mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the whole boil half an hour, and then add the soft roes of carp, parboiled; let them stew a quarter of tin hour, and then put the ragofitinto the pies. Any sort of vegetable ragoflt may be made use of, in- stead of the above in these pies, such as of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. Ykh Maigre Pie.—Bone and cut into pieces a carp ; make it into forcemeat with some of the roe, parsley, thyrne, shalots chopped verv tine, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, salt.a little i>ound- ed spice, luilf a pint of cream, jour egjrs. and the cruiuh of a French roll. .After- wards take pieces ofcel. salmon and skaie. pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a bit of butter. ” hen