CUE ( 135 ) C H E paste. Roll it out as usual, take oil about an eighth part, and put the largest portion into the mould or case, dorfiz it; then take tlie remainder of the brioche and place it on the top, so as to form a sort of head to the other; dorez and trim it. When it has been in the oven about two hours, take it out gently, and if the iiead be not detached from the rest, re- move it lightly, lay paper over, and replace it in the oven as quickly as you can, to finish the baking. Cheese, Cake of*—Take about the fourth part of a close, fat Brie cheese, pound and rub it through a sieve; mix with it a pint and a half of flour ; lay it on the board, make a hole in the middle, into which put three quarters of a pound of butter, and work it in well; add to it a little Gruyere cheese grated, and six eggs. Knead these all together well; mould it up, and let it stand for half an hour ; then roll it out, and make it into a cake of about three inches; mark it with-a knife on one side in chequers, and on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cheshiue Cheese, to imitate. — The milk being set, and the curd being come, do not break it with a dish, as is cus- tomary in other cheese, but draw it to- gether with your hands to one side of the vessel, breaking it gently and regularly; for if it be pressed roughly, a great deal of the richness of the milk will go into the whey. Put the curd into the cheese- yat or mote as you gather it, and when it is full, salt it at different times ; press it, and turn it often. The thickness of these cheeses must be about seven or eight inches, and they will be fit to cut in about twelve months. You must turn and shift them frequently upon a shelf, and rub them with a dry coarse cloth. At the year’s end, you may bore a hole in the middle, and pour in a quarter of a pint of sack, then stop the hole close with some of the same cheese, and set it in a wine cellar for six months to mellow ; at the expiration of which you will find the sack all lost, and the hole in a manner closed up. If this cheese be properly managed, iis flavour will be pleasant and grateful, and it will eat exceedingly fine and rich. Cheese ( Crab).*—Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c. and press them well with a knife, until you can spread it like but- ter. Then mix up with it, mustard, common and chili vinegar, cayenne pep- per, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Miic all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. Cheese Cream, — To three pints of raw cream put a suflicient quantity of salt to season it; stir it well; fold a cheese-cloth three or four times, and lay it at the bottom of a_ sieve, and pour your cream into it. When it hardens, cover it'with nettles on a pewter plate. Cheese Cream.—Make a pint of good milk liikcwarin, and stir in a bit of ren- net about the size of a pea, previously diluted with some of the milk; put it over a few hot embers, and cover it with fire at the top ; when the curd is set, put it into a little osier basket, made for the piirpo.se, and well drained, turn it into a dessert dish ; serve with good cream, and fine sugar over it. Cheese Cream. — Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. VYhen the curd is produced, strike it down a few times with the skimming- dish, to break it. Leave it to stand two hours, then spread a cheese cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat, with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand for twelve hours; take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn it from one board to another every day, till it is dry ; cover with nettles or clean dock leaves, and put it to ripen between two pewter- plates. If the weather is ivarra, it will be ready in three weeks. Cheese Cream.—?oX twelve quarts of new milk and a quart of cream together, with rennet just suflicient to turn it, and let the milk and cream be just warm. When it has stood till the curd has come; lay a cloth in the vat, which must be made of a size proportionate to the cheese. Cut out the curd with a skimming-disli, and put it into the vat till it is full, turning the cheese-cloth over it; and as the curd settles, lay more on, till you have laid on as much as will make one cheese. When the whey is drained olf, turn tl>e cheese into a dry cloth, and then lay upon it a pound weight. At night, turn it out into another cloth, and the next morning salt it a little. Then, having made a bed of nettles or ash leaves to lay it on, cover it with the same, shifting it twice a day, for about ten days, when it may be brought to table.. Cheese Cream, a Plain Family TVay, —Warm three half pints of cream with one half pint of milk, or according to tlve same proportion, and put a little rennet to it; keep it covered in a warm place till it is curdled; have a proper mould with holes, either of china or any other ; put the curds into it to drain, about an liour, or less; serve with a good plain cream, and pounded sugar over it.