BAG (35) BAG colour it with a salamander. Lay thin slices of bread with grated Parmesan clieese on them, then a layer of cabbages with more slices of bread j add the broth, and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; grate on a little more cheese; brown it, add a little more broth, and serve the chicken at the top. B. BAB A—Take three pounds of flqur,one uarter of which put apart and mix into ough,with a gill of go^d yeast and a lit- tle warm water ; cover it close in a stew- pan, and set it by the fire to rise, when you seethe dough rise and nearly ready, form the other parts of the flour in a cir- cle on the table, in the centre of which put half an ounce of salt, one ounce of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs, with a table spoonful of saf- fron, (mix the butter and eggs well toge- tlier before you put it to the flour) ; when all is mixed, spread it out, and put the dough upon it, and knead it in well. When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add two pounds of raisins stoned, a few at a time, have ready two copper moulds but- tered, and put in the dough ; they must be only three parts full, and set in a warm place, to rise very gently; when raised to the top of the mould, bake in a tolerable hot oven ; a brick oven is the best. Baba.*—Take the fourth part of two ounds of flour, lay it on your paste- oard or slab, and having made a hole in tlie middle of it, put in half an ounce of yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst with the other you pour in warm water ; make it into a rather soft paste, put into a wooden bowl, first pricking it m a few places, cover it with a cloth and let it stand. When it has risen well, take the remainder of the flour, and spread it on the first made paste ; mix them well together, adding to them half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of stoned raisins, two ounces of currants, half a jdass of Malaga wine, and a little saffron jn powder. Work them up togetlier thoroughly, roll it out two or three times, and then let it stand for six hours ; then having buttered a mould, pour in your preparation and bake it. BAGGHIG Crmni*—Put a pint and a half of white wine.with some lemon peel, coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three ounces of sugar, intoa stewpan, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix half a tea spoonful of flour witli the yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and stir in by degrees the other previously boiled ingredients. When about half cold, strain the whole through a sieve and put it in a dish in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is set; lastly,take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. Bacchic SaKce.*—Put a spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with half a pint of good stock, and a pint of white wine, boil them together till reduced to nearly half; then put in some shallots, garden cress, tarragon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c. all shred [very fine, season with whole pepper and salt. Boil up the whole together once ; serve with a little cullis. This sauce is good with any meat. BAGON to broil.—Make up a sheet of paper into the form of a dripping pan ; cut your bacon into thin slices, cut off' the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it upon the gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will broil cleanly. Bacon and Cabbages.*—Boil some fine streaked bacon with a little stock, and the ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some white cabbages for about two hours, add salt and spices, and serve very hot. Place your cabbages and sausages alternately round the dish, and the bacon in the middle. Bacon Cake.*—Gut three-quarters of a pound of streaked bacon in very thin slices, and put them into a stewpan for half an hour over a slow fire ; then put a quartern and a half offlouron a pie -board; make a hole in the middle, and pour into i t the melted fat of the bacon, a 1 ittle salt, and some water; knead the paste, and let it stand an hour to rise ; then put in the slices of bacon at small distances fiom each other, so as with the paste to form a cake. Bake it an hour. Bacon, to cfr?/.—-Gut the leg of ayonng hog with a piece of the loin, and rub it well once a day, for three days, with saltpetre powdered, and brown sugar; then salt it,well to look red; let it lie for five or six weeks, and then hang it up to dry. Bacon and Eggs.*—C»i, a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, takingcare to turn them frequently; when sufficiently done, pour the melted fat of the bacon into a dish, break over it seven or eight eggs, add two spoonsful of gravy, a little salt and pepper, and stew the whole over a slow lire; pass a salamander over it, and serve. Bacon Froze.—Beat eight eggs into a batter, a little cream and flour, fry some thin slices of bacon, and dip them in it; lay the bacon in a frying-pan, poura little batter over them; when one side is fried.