{ 347 ) MUT MUT Having prepared your mutton by cutting off the scrag end, and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trim- mings, four carrots, five onions, (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay- leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, into a stewpan ; put in the mutton, cover it with bacon, moisten them with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire; as soon as it boils, lessen the fire, and let the meat stew four hours. When quite done, drain the mutton, dish, and pour the carrots, dressed en petites racmes, over it. Mutton (Neck or Scrag o/).*-^Stew a neck or scrag of mutton in a braising- pan, with some stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; you may serve it with a ragofltof turnips, cucumbers, or celei-y, or with any sauce you think proper, or you may broil it like the breast of mut- ton. Mutton Pasty, to eat as nice as Veni- son.—Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang for several days, then bone it. Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over it one gla.ss of port, and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five days and five nights ; after which, wash and wipe the meat Very dry, and season it highly with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and [salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise it will be over-done before the meat is soaked; it must be baked in a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, and one glass of port, a small quantity of pepper and salt; by this means you will have a little rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Sugar gi ves a greater shortness to meat, and a better flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar is quite as great a preservative. Mutto.v Pfe.—Take oifthe meat from part of a lo'n of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices cf onion; put the re- maining chops over, cover with puff- paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., and when cold, put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes, and cullis added when baked. Mutton (raised) Pie McU.—Take the best part ol a leg of mutton, and mince with any sort of poultry, meat, or game, you may find convenient; also mince half a pound of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, four or fire yolks of hard eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy; make a good raised crust, into whicli put the above; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. ^\vtroii,Polpeltes of.*—Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare oifthe skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calf’s udder; sea- son with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and parsley, shred smafi; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice. Flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter; when done, drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomata sauce or demi glaze. Mutton Pudding.—Cut some slices from a leg of mutton that has been under done, and put them into a basin lined with a nice suet crust. Season them well with pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. Mutton Pudding.—Put a layer of steaks at the bottom of a dish, and sea- son with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion : then pour a batter of potatoes, boiled and pressed through a cullender, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks and more batter, and bake it. Mutton Rolls, enGratin.—Cut a neck or leg of mutton into slices about the thickness of a crown piece, lay them se- parately on a dish, covered with chopped parsley, shalots, scallions, and mush- rooms ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pour a sufficient mian- tity of oil over to cover them. When they have laid in this an hour, have some good fowl or veal farce; put a piece about the size of a walnut between e.Tch two slices of mutton, tie them together and braise the whole; when about half done, add a glass of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small rolls as you have parcels of mutton,which untie and put into the crusts; takesome farce made of poultry, livers, grated bacon, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, and set it on the fire to make the gratin. When ready for table, pour some cullis over the rolls, and serve them with a clear sauce and leinou- juice. Mutton Rumps, d la Braise,—Take