338 M U S M US a fine napkin, put it into some good stock, and beat up the yolks of six eggs, and add to it; thicken over the fire, and mix the whole with some consomme soup when ready to serve, arranging the mus- cles round tlie dish. Muscles, Tourte of,—Line a dish with puft-paste, put at the bottom a layer of good farce, then (having washed the muscles well) put them into a saucep.an, take away the shells as they open, leave in the fish, and let them stew in their own liquor with butter, shalots, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; lay them on the farce, cover and bake the tourte, and serve with bechamel. MUSHROOMS <oc/«oose.—Themush- rooms proper to be used in cookery grow in the open pasture land, for those that frow near or under trees, are poisonous. 'he eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and mid- dle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mush- room ; besides which, they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Mushrooms a laBourgeoise.*—V\c\:,, trim, and cut the mushrooms in halves ; put some slices of streaky bacon into a stewpan, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then add the mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots (chopped), pepper, a pinch of flour, a little stock and white wine; stew the whole gently, and when reduced to a thick sauce, pour it on fried bread, and serve with vinegar or lemon juice. Mushrooms Broiled- — Choose the largest sort; pepperand salt them well, lay them on a small gridiron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quick, and serve them with good gravy. Mush ROOMS Ml Cannellon.—Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with sliced parsley, scallions, shalots, and some butter; when a little browned, add stock, pepper, and salt; let it simmer till the mushrooms are done, and the. sauce pretty thick, then put in the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon-juice ; set it by to cool; in .the menu lime, roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above, moisten the edges, and roll them up into the form of short sausages, flour and fry them. Mushroosis (i la Crime. — Choose those which are small, and boil them a few minutes in some good cream-sauce ; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. Mushrooms with Crust.—Take some mushrooms, wash, but do not peel them ; then put them with a few spoonsful of good oil,into a frying-pan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a quick fire. Whilst they are cooking, add pep- per, salt, grated nutmeg, and shred pars- ley and shalots; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve imme- diately. Mushrooms to Dry.—Wipe them quite clean, and take out the brown aad pare otf the skin of the large ones ; lay them on paper, and put them in a cool oven M dry, keep them in paper bags in a very dry place. When wanted for use, sim- mer them in gravy, and they will swell to nearly their former size ; or you may simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up into them, shaking the pan, then dry them on tin plates with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, and keep them in a dry place, or in paper. Mushrooms and Eggs.*—Mince some morels or mushrooms very small, put them into a stewpan with some rich gravy, and do them till properly flavoured and the gravy pretty thick, then pour on them the yolks of twelve eggs, and the whites of eight, season moderately, and beat them constantly whilst on the fire ; serve them very hot. Mushrooms Fricasseed.— Peel some mushrooms, if they are large, cut them in pieces, wash them in cold water, with some vinegar, and blanch them ; after- wards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry. Then heat them over the fire, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, pepper, and a hunch of parsley; moisten with hot water or stock, aiid just before serving, thicken with the yolk of an egg, and half a tea- spoonful of vinegar. Mushrooms, to keep.*—The mush- rooms for keeping should be of a in<^e- rate size ; lay them on hurdles, or string, and bang them up in a dry place, where there is a free circulation of air, but no sun : if you wish to dry them by a quicker process, lay them in an oven; ^diomd you have any large ones, take ofl the tops and stems, and cut them in slices ;