CIT (171) CLA then put them into moulds, and place them in a stove to dry. Citron {/yfiite) Preserved. — Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in salt and water for four or five hours; then, having waslied tliem in cold water, boil tliem ; when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified sugar as will cover them. The next day drain off the syrup, and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citrons; let them stand twenty-four hours ; then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The tliird day, boil both to- gether, and put them into moulds to candy. Citron Preserved Liquid.* — Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water ; whenever they are near boiling, put cold-water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, and throw them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again, in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take them out, and put them in cold water. After this, boil them seven or eight times in clari- fied sugar; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. _ The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; do this for three successive days, in- creasing the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, so that at the last boil- ing the degree may be au perM. The fruit may then be put into pots. To preserve them dry, they must be done exactly the same; only, instead of putting the fruit into pots, they should be dried on sieves in a stove. With the remaining sugar the citrons may be glazed. Citron Pvddhig, — Mix together a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; add to this four ounces of tine sugar, the same of citron, shred fine, two spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg ; place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. Citron Pitddings.—The. yolks of three eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one spoonful of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin; sugar to the taste; put tliis into large cups buttered ; bake them in a tolerably quick oven; when done, turn them out of the cups, and serve. Citron Ratafia.*—Pare seven or eight citrons very thin j cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into a jar, with three pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks; then add to this I a pound of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen days longer, when it may be bottled. Citron (■S'i/nqo o/).—Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very thin .slices, and let them stand till the next day ; then strain off the syrup, and clarify it over a gentle fire. Citron (Si/rup of).*—Put the rinds of three citrons into an earthen vessel, and strain on them the juice ; to this put a little water; pour the mixture into a basin in which is four pounds of clarified sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this basin in a large saucepan, half filled with water, over the fire; stir the con- tents of the basin frequently; and when the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the syrup quite clear, take the saucepan from-the fire, and let it cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bottled. Citron Water. — Bruise eighteen ounces of good citron-peel, nine ounces of orange-peel, a quarter of a pound of nutmegs ; put them into three gal- lons of proof spirits, and distil it; then add two pounds of double refined sugar, and bottle it. Another Way.—Steep the rind, cut thin, of a dozen citrons, and half an ounce of bruised cardamom-seed; in good brandy (about a quart); stop it close, and let it stand some days ; then boil a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, until it becomes a syrup ; skim it well, and when cold, add it, with the juice of three lemons, to the infusion ; run it through a jelly-bag several times, and when perfectly clear it may be bottled. CITRONNELLE Ratafia.*—For two quarts of the best brandy, take the zestes or rinds of a dozen fine sound lemons, two drachms of bruised cinna- mon, an ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sugar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; infuse the whole for a month, then strain and bottle it. CLARET {Artificial).— Distil in a cold still, one part of clary water, half a part of redstreak cider; and put them, with six pounds of Malaga raisins, beaten in a mortar, and one pound of the fat mother of claret, in a close vessel, to fer- ment;- when it has stood a fortnight, draw it- off, and for every gallon put half a pint of mulberry, blackberry, or gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of clary ; to the whole put three spoonsful do'ir, the whites of two eggs, a drachm of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup of clary j mix the whole well together, tind let it sand j when quite clear, bot- tle it. Q 2