CAB 91 ) CAB br6th for consumptions ; but are most proper for pickling, as gherkins, &c. Cabbage (lied) d la jFYamawrfc.*—Take two red cabbages, cut them in quarters; take out the liearts, and cut them in pieces, blanch them, then put them into cold water, after which put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an onion stuck with cloves, some salt and pepper; stir them about, so that the cabbage may be well mixed with the butter; place your stew-pan on the fire, put fire upon the lid of the stew-pan; and let it simmer for three or four hours; turn the cabbage frequently, and be careful not to let it burn ; when the cab- bage is done, take out the bay leaf and the onion ; add a little more butter ; and serve hot. Cabbage {Red) Pickled.*—Take about a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and put into a little bag, and boil it with as much vinegar as you think sufficient for the cabbage, with a little salt and bay salt; _ when it boils, scald the cabbage with it, then boil it up again, and put a little ginger and pepper into it; then put it in something to cool; when cold, put the cabbage into jars, and put the pickle upon it, and tie it down. Cabbage (iJerf) Stetved.—Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage ; wash, and put it into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Cabbage {Red) Stewed.—Shred the cabbage; wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vine- gar, and boil up. Cabbage {Red) Stewed.—Cut the cab- bage very thin ; and put it into the stew- pan, with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let It stew covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Cabbage {Red) Stetved.—Take a fine red cabbage, cut it into thin slices cross- ways, and then into small bits; put them in a stewpan, with a pint of rich gravy, a pound of sausages, and three or four slices of ham or bacon; cover the stew- pan down close; set it on a moderate fire, let it stand half an hour, then un- cover it; skim off the fat, shake in some flour, put in two spoonsful of vine- gar, and cover it up; set it on again, and let it stew four or five minutes longer, take out the sausages, and pour the rest over it. Cabbage {Red) Syrup of.—Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan and boil it in water three or four hours, till there remains no more than a pint of liquorput the cabbage into a sieve, squeezing it till you have ex- pressed all the juice; let it settle, and pour it off clear; then put a pound of Narbonne honey into a saucepan, with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often ; when the honey is very clear put it in the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the consistence of syrup, like ail others. Cabbage Salad.—Boil a Savoy cabbage in water; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two anchovies, and a few capers : it may he served either hot or cold. Cabbage Soicp.—Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham; let it catch a little, then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well seal ded,a bitof pickled pork, a bay-leaf or miguionette. If you would garnish this souptvith any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the dish with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. Cabbage Soup.—Cut your cabbage into four parts; then let them be about three- quarters enough boiled in water; then take them up and squeeze them dry from the water; then place them in a large brass pan or dish, so that there may be room betwixt each piece of cabbage, to take up soup with a large spoon, then let them boil with as much gravy or stock as will cover them. Let them stew for two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of butter, and a handful of flour, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring; add two onions minced, and stir it again ; then add a quart of veal gravy, boil it a little, and pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force pigeons, with good forced meat made of veal, fry them, and then stew them with the cabbage, put- ting in with them a little bacon, stuck with cloves. When it has stewed enough, take ofl the fat, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock, place your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all round. Garnish the dish with slices of bacon, and a little cabbage between each slice.