gam (259) gam when half reduced, add a ladleful of veal blond ; as soon as it boils set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, then strain it tbrougli a napkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladiesful of clarified es- pagnole, wlien it boils, set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour’s time, skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon, or, if you _ wish it exceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert spoonful of aspic jelly. When reduced to the proper consistence, strain^it again into a small saucepan, and stir it inces- santly with a sauce ladle, that it may cool smoothly ; when no more than luke- warm, pour a quarter of it on the par- tridges, shaking the saucepan lightly, and then place on ice for half an hour; at the end of that time, lay the partridge legs very close, en couroyme, on these lay the wings, then three breasts, over these two more breasts, and on the top of the whole a tine truffle, dressed in wine, and a large well-blanched cock’s-comb ; then beat up the remainder of the sauce wdth a spoon •, if it be too thick, set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so, place it on ice j when of the proper con- sistence, it quits the spoon with diffi- culty; remove the truffle and cock’s- comb, cover the chaud-froid carefully with the sauce, and then replace them. Oarnish the dish with a border of roots, or aspic jelly. Ga.me (Essence of.)*—Take four rab- bits, four partridges, two quasis of veal, two pounds of steaks ; put them into a stewpan, with a bottle of white wine ; boil theni until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly ; then add to it broth, and con- somme, (equal quantities of each,) eight carrots, ten onions, three cloves, a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently, until the meat is quite done ; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are sufficiently seasoned to flavour the essence of game. Game, Farce for.*—Chop some beef- marrow, and streaky bacon, and pound them well, then take the livers of your game, and pound them also with the marrow; add salt, spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream ; if itljetoo thin, boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it con- .stantly stirring, to prevent it from burn ing. Game Fritters.*—Take any of those parts of cold roasted game, which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. Sprinkle the fritters when done, with salt and spices, pounded very fine. Game, Fumet of.* — This is a clear sauce, made in a si milar manner to essence of same; when strained oft, put it into a saucepan, and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it halt a glass of cold water, to make the scum rise, which must he carefully removed ; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, bread- ed, broiled, &c. Game (f umet of) Sairce.’*—Take three or four partridges or young wild rabbits, two carrots, three or four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a little thyme, and half a bottle of white wine ; reduce all to a jelly, and then moi.sten it with essence of game,orifyou have none, with consommi. Set it on a gentle fire till the game is done, then strain it through a napkin, and stir into it six or eight spooiislul of espagnole, or any other sauce which |s convenient; reduce, and then strain it again, and put it into a stewpan, in the bain marie. Game, Petits Patis of.*—Make some petits pales with godiveau, as dii-ected, (&et pelitspates ot gra\y) \ when baked, take out the godiveau, and put in its place the following preparation: take some mushrooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, two cloves, and a piece of butter, give them a few turns in a stew- pan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal blond, salt and pepper; stew them gently, till the mush- rooms are done, when put in some cold roasted game, cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. Serve X.\ie petits pates v/iXh Seville orangerjuice. Game, Potage o/.*—Take the. lai^je fillets from six partridges, and the. most fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set them aside,and make the remainder into a consomme, with two or three pounds of shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then having taken out all the membranes, &c. from the rabbit and partridges, which were set aside, pound and rub them through a sieve. Make a panada with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and the yolks of two eggs; let it thicken and gratinez, stir- ring It constantly; mix the pounded game with an equal quantity of panada, and a small piece of fresh butter, or ready dressed calf’s udder; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- rooms ; pound the whole witli two more yolks of eggs and one white, beaten to a snow; make this into balls, and lay them on a flat plate, that they will easily slide oflT into the boiling consomme, which must be well skimmed; when the balls are sufficiently done, pour the whole into the soup tureen, and serve it.