V E R VE R ( 496 ) wlien it 18 dissolved, stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERJUICE.—Verjuice is the young, unripe, and sour grape ; it is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English dishes. Verjuice.— Take some crab apples when the kernels turn black, lay them in a heap to sweat; then pick them from the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a mash, and press the juice through a bag of coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will be fit for use in a month’s time. If intended for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. It may be put into sauces witen lemon is wanting. Verjuice {Compote of).*—Choose the largest verjuice, split them open, and take out the seeds; throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet; when it rises to the sur- face, take the skillet from the fire, cover /it, and let it stand. When cold, drain, and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar; give it two or three boils together; remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the com- potier. Verjuice Marmalade.the seeds from your berries, which put into a skil- let of boiling water, and set them on the fire ; when the berries rise to the sur- face, cover the skillet, take it from the fire, and place it on hot ashes for two hours, that they may be quite green ; at the end of that time pour the whole into a pan ; when cold, press the juice from the verjuice, through a sieve into a stew- pan, and put it again on the fire that the moisture may evaporate; then take it out quickly, weigh it, boil an equal quan- tity of sugar iooasse, mix the fruit with it, simmer them together a little while, and then pour it into pots. Verjuice Preserved.*—Split, and take the seeds from two pounds of verjuice, put the fruit into a skillet of boiling wa- ter, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered close; at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and may be drained. Boil two pounds of sugar to petite plume, add the verjuice, boil it up twice with the p.in covered ; skim it well, and pour the preserve into ^ VT.V.3VICT. Preserved Dry.*—Scald the verjuice as above, boil your sugar to perle, add the fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan ; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it lo grand perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give one boil, skim it, and put it aside. The next day drain the ver- juice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven, or on a stove. Verjuice, Syrup of.*—Crm\\ as much very green verjuice as will yield six pounds of juice; strain the juice, first througli a sieve, and then through a jelly-bag until perfectly clear; boil three pounds of sugar to petit plume, pour the juice to it; take care that the fire is a large one, boil the whole to perle, and then take it off the fire, and when the sy- rup is half cold, bottle it. VERMICELLI Soup d VAllemande.— Stir together in a basin, the yolks of seven eggs, with half a pint of cream squeezed through a tammy, and the mi- nute before servingthe soup to table, add this liaison to it. Vermicelli Cream.—Boil some ver- micelli in milk until it becomes quite a marrnalade; let it cool, and then mix with it a pint of cream, some macaroni drops, orange-flowers!, and lemon-pecl,all chopped very fine, with a little pounded cinnamon, five whole eggs welt beaten, and sweeten with powder sugar accord- ing to taste; pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and b.ake it as usual. Vermicelli in Boil the quan- tity of milk you inay require, and put into it hall a pound of vermicelli peeled, and a sufficient quantity of sugar ; stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste: half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. Vermicelli Pudding.*—tioW a quar- ter of a pound of vermicelli «ith a fittle cinnamon, in a quart of milk; in the meantime mix a quarter of a pound of melted butter with a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; pour in the ver- micelli when quite soft; .add a little flour and beef murrow, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all np for half an hour, tie it in a floured cloth, ,and boil it. Vermicelli Pudding.—]io\\ fourounces ofvermicelli in a pint of new milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two of cin- numnn. Then add half a uintof thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks offoureggs, thoroughly beaten ; lay the above in a dish and bake. Vermicelli Soup.* — Take .as much good stock as you require for yonrtureer, strain, and set it on the fiie, and when it boils, put in the vermicelli, and let itsim- mcr for half an hour by a slow fire, that