CAR ( 118 CAR a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may illsobe tied in bundles, and eerveu as asparagus boileU on a toast, and pour butter over. Caiidoons d I’Essence with Marrow.— The. .same preparation as for Spanish cardoons, receipt second. Take a few pieces of beef-marrow, all ot a size, which yau put to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When tlioroughly disgorged, blanch and stew it in a little water, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. When done, put it into the essence, which is nothing but some esp^i^nolc reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to put a little sugar; which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it make.s them much better. Cardoons, Fried and Buttered.—You must cut them about six inches long, and string them ; then boil them till tender; take them out, have some butter in your stewpan, flour them, and fry them brown; send them in a dish, with melted butter in a cup. Or, you may tie them up in bundles, and boil them like asparagus ; put a toast under them, and pour a little melted butter over them; or cut them into dice, and boil them like pease : toss them up in butter, and send them up hot. Cardoons d la Fromage.—After they are strung, cut them an inch long, stew them in a little red wine till they are tender ; season with pepper and salt, and thicken it vvith a piece of butter rolled in flour ; then pour them into your dish, squeeze the juice of an orange over it, then scrape Parmesan or Cheshire cheese all over them; then brown it with a cheese-iron, and serve it up quick and hot. Cardoons, Purie o/.*—Boil some car- doons in a blanc, and cut them into small pieces: have ready three large spoonsful of veloute, and six of consonvnU, in which put the cardoons; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste; then pass them through a bolting; keep your puree as thick as paries usually are, but if too thick, put in a little cream ; add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut; keep it hot without boiling in the bam tnarie. Cardoons, Purie of., in Crouslade.*— Cut some slices about an inch and a half thick from a large French loaf, fry them of a light colour in butter, drain them; take out the inner crumb, and fill them with a puree of cardoons, having mixed about naif an ounce of butter in whilst the purie was quite hot. Cardoons d la Sauce Blanche.—Tha same preparation as for Spanish car- doons, receipt second, only serve with the sauce blanche., or French melted butter. Cardoons, Spanish.*—Cat them into lengths of three inches, be careful not to use those which are hollow and green; boil them for haif an hour, then put them' into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little verjuice, and a little but- ter; when done, put them intoacullis with some stock; cook them for an hour in this sauce, and «erve. Cardoons, Spanish.— Select a few heads of cardoons, all very white. Cut each leaf into slices of six inches long; with the exception, however, of those, that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Bearcl them of their prickles, and blanch them, by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. When you have given these a few boils, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see if the slime which is on the sur- face will come ofl by rubbing. It so. take them off the fire immediately, and throw them into cold water, as they are done enough ; or you may cool the boil- ing water, by pouring cold into it till you are able to bear your hand in it, to rub off all the slime. _ This being done, throw the cardoons into a blanc, give them a single boil, and leave them in the blanc. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Pare both extremities, and mask them in a stewpan, with four spoonsful of espagncle and four spoonsful of consomme, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let tliem boil over a sharp fire, that they may not be done too much; be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tammy before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them, to prevent their getting dry. Cardoons, Stewed. — Cut them in pieces, take off’ the outside skin, wash and scald them ; put them into a stew- pan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced; then add a little be- chamelle, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the cardcwns in the centre. CAUDOoNsr/u Feloutc.—The same pre- paration as for Spanish cardoons, receipt second. Take some out of the blanc, trim and stew them in a little consomme, and when they are done, drain and sauce them with some veloute. *