\ ORA ( 364 ) ORA and put it into a barrel with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy ; bung it down when it has done liissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. OnANGES (China) Zest of.— Pare off the outside rind of the oranges very thin, and only strew it over with tine powder- sugar, as much as their own moisture will take, and set them to dry in a hot stave. Orangeade.—Squeeze the juice; pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover it closely ; boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich sherbet; strain it through a jelly- bag. Orangeade.*—This refreshing bever- age is made precisely in the same man- ner as lemonade, only substituting oranges for lemons. Orangeade Pie.—Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste ; then slice the oranges, and lay over the bottom ; pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and pour over them some syrup of orangeade, strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, then strew some sugar over it. Orange (Bitter) Sauce. * —Pare two bitter oranges very thin, blanch the rinds, and then put them into a rich espagnole reduced j add a small piece of sugar, and season it vvell ; just before serving, squeeze in the juice of one of the oranges, 'and part of a lemon. OiiAtiGB (China) Jtiice to Preserve.— Take the finestChinaoiangeslhatcan be procured, squeeze from them a pint of juice; strain it through a fine muslin, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, with three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; when cold, put it into small bottles. Orange (China) fVater Ice.—Rasp a China orange, take the juice of three oianges, and the juice of a lemon; add to it half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of w'ater; pass it, and freeze it rich, and thick. Oranges, Green.—Scrape out the in- sides of the oranges quite clean, then let them lie for three days in cold water, changing the water daily, then boil them very slowly till the water is bitter; then put them into ether boiling water, set them by ; repeating this daily till all the bitieiness is extracted: make a rich syrup of the last water tliey are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; when cold, put them in; the next day boil them in the syrup; repeat this till they are green and tender; cover with brandy-paper. Orange (Seville) (Voter Ice.—Takeofl' the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine and thin ; squeeze the juice into a basin with one lemon ; add half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass them through a sieve, and freeze them rich. Orange Chips.—Cut your oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve, let the peel soak in water, the following day boil it in the same till it is tender ; drain them, and slice the peels ; put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and put it over the fire at a moderate distance, stirring frequently till the chips candy ; then put them into a cool room to dry. They will not be dry under three weeks. Orange Chips Broiled. — Take the rinds of oranges, cut them into small pieces, and having scalded them a short time, throw them into some sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, and when they are of a nice colour, drop them on a baking.plate (previously oiled) like macaroons; strew a little powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. The proportion of sugar is a pound and a half to one pound of the peel. Orange FlowerBalU.*~Vi\\\p\ip the whites of two eggs, with three pounds of powder-sugar, adding by degrees an ounce of orange-flower water, and a pinch ofcarndne in powder; when these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste, pour it on a sheet of paper; cut it in pieces, which make into little balls, by rolling them in your hands; place them on paper about half an inch apart; put them into the oven till they swell a little, then take them out, and keep them dry. Orange Flower Biscuits. — Take the yolks of six eggs,'beat them up with three spoonsful of orange-flower marmalade, and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix these together well, put the preparation into paper-cases, bake them like other biscuits, and glaze them when done. Or.inoe Flower Biscuits d la Duchesse. —These are made in the same manner as orange-flower biscuits; the only difTerence consists in the ingredients; rice-flour sifted being substituted for wheat-flour, and dried orange-flowers pulverized in- steail of tlie marmalade, and a pound of powder-sugar added. ORANOc-/'/ovcr Biscuits Souffles.*— Take the white of an egg, with which mix some sifted sugar; when of a proper