52 BEE BEE mouse butioclf), cut it five or six inches thick, cut some pieces of fat bacon into long bits; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double tlie quantity of salt, if wanted ; mix them together; dip the bacon into some vinegar, (garlic vinegar, if agree- able), then into the spice ; lard the beef with a larding pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot just big enough to hold it, with a gill ofvinegar, twolarge onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, some lemon peel; cover it down very close, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the stearn evaporating ; when it is half done turn it, and cover it up again ; do it over a stove, or a very slow fire: it will take five hours and a half before it is done. Truffles and morels may be added. Beef Oliues.*—Take some thin ramp .steake, cut them what size you please, make force meat as for veal, put some of it into each piece of steak, roll them up and skewer them, fry them brown until they are half done, then stew them in gravy half an hour, with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Beep Pasty.—Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rolling pin ; to five pounds of your beef take two ounces of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours: then either wipe it clean or wash it off with a little claret, and season it high with salt, pepper, ana nutmeg, put it into your pasty, and lay over i t a pound of butter ; close it up and bake it. Put the bones in a pan with 'just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. Beef d la Pat/sa«we.*—Take a slice of beef, cut it into little pieces, with some streaked bacon, parsley, scallion chopped small, fine spices, and a laurel leaf; take a tureen, and first put in a layerof beef, then a layer of bacon, and continue first with a layernfbeef then of bacon, with a little seasoning, then put in a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- fuls of water, close the lid of the tureen, and let it stew over some hot ashes; when done, you may either clear off the fat or not, according as you think proper, then serve it in the tureen. Beef {Pickled).—'IWx apiece of beef, stick it all over with garlick .and cloves, season it well with salt, mace, and all- spice, cover the meat with vinegar and turn It every day for a fortniglit; as the vinegar wastes, add more; then put it in a stew-pot with some vinegar and white wine, cover it down very close, stew it six hours, if a large piece; add vinegar and white wine to it as it stews, if neces- sary ; some onions should be stewed to eat with it. Beef to Pickle the Jews’ fVay.—Take any piece of beef without bones, or take the bones out, it you intend to keep it above a month ; take mace, elove.s, nut- meg, and pepper, juniper berries beat fine, and rub the beef well, mix salt and jamaica pepper and bay leaves ; let it be well seasoned, let it lie in the seasoning a week or ten days, throw in a good deal of garlic and shalots; boil some of the best white wine vinegar, lay your meat in a pan or good vessel for the purpose, with the pickle; and when the vinegar is quite cold, pour it over; cover it close. If it is for a voyage, cover it with oil, and let the cooper hoop up the barrel very well. This is a most excellent way in a hot country, where meat will not keep, then it must be put into the vinegar directly with the seasoning, then you may either roast or stew it, but it is best when stewed; and add a good deal of onion and parsley chopped fine, some white gravy, a little catsup, truffles and morels, a little good gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, or a little ml, in which the meat and onions ought to stew a quarter of an hour before the other in- gredients are put in; then put all in, stir the whole well, and let it stew till you think it is sufficiently done. This IS a good pickle in a hot country, to keen beef or veal that is dressed to eat cola. Beef Pie d la Chasse.*—Trim a fine leg of beef. Take a pound of lean raw ham, and cut it into lardons six inches in length, and half an inch in diameter; then cut into lardons of the same size two pounds of fat bacon, rub th e lardons of bacon over with one ounce of salt (seasoned with spices) and two spoonfuls of very fine chopped sweet herbs, \^'eigll your beef, and according to its weight to each pound of meat take four drachms of spiced salt, and nut this saltap.art; then lard your beef all over with the lardons of ham and bacon, (putting a lardon of ham between two lardons of bacon) and sticking these lardons at three quarters of an inch dist.ance from each other. AVhen your beef is completely larded, tie it in as neat a round as possible. Line a stew-p.an with lards of bacon, adding a pound of ham cut into thin slices, then put in your beef, with two carrots, four onions, (two of which should be stuck with clovea)parsley,sc.aliion, bay. thvme, basil, .adding three spoonfuls of the drip- ping of fowls', or a glass of entwomme. a bottle of madeira. half a glass of brandy.