M A L { 328 ) M A R (sufficiently green, add asmall quantity of esoeiice of spinach. Magnonnaise, IVhite.* — Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and tlie quarter of a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; take a wooden spoon, stir them up quickly, and when it begins to thicken, add Isalf a dessert-spoonful of the best olive oil 5 as the sauce continues to thicken, put in a few drops of vinegar, then oil, and soon, still rapidly Stirling and rubbing the spoon against the sides of the pan. In proportion as the sauce gains consistence, increase, by degrees, the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic-jelly ; do notecase stirring until you nave thus amalgamated, two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic-jelly, and, as much vine- gar as you find necessary to render the sauce palatable; when done, it should be of the consistence of thick cream, and equally smooth; keep it in a cool place till you want to use it. MAIDS.—They should hang up for one day, at least. You may either broil or fry them. If they are of a tolerable size, you may boil the middle part, and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg, and covered with bread-crumbs. MAITRED’HOTEL, C’ofrf.*-Put a quarter ofa pound of butter into a sauce- pan, with some parsley an’d shalots, minced small, salt, whole pepper, and lemon-juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon. Pour the il/aifre d’Hotel either over, under, or into what- ever meat or fish you intend to serve. MAITRE D'HOTEL, Liee* — Vnt into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley, and scallions, chopped small, salt, whole pepper, and two ladlesful of water ; set It on tlie fire only just as it is wanted ; stir it like a white sauce; if it be too thick,put in a little lemon-juice and water. This sauce should be of the same con- sistence as JVhite Sauce. MALLOWS, Symp of.*—Tak^ half a pound of mallows root, and having scraped and washed it well, cut it into small pieces, which set on the fire with three pints of water; when sufficiently boiled, the water will be glutinous, strain oil’the decoction, and pour into it four pounds of sugar j clarify it in the same manner as capillaire; boil it to fmt', rnnit through a jelly-bag, and when cold, bottle it. MALT f’inegar.*—fn Germany, this vinegar is made witli barley and wheat malt, of both of which there are two sorts, one dried in an oven or kiln, the other dried in the open air; of the latter the largest quantity is generally used. Put ten gallons of boiling water into a large tub, stir till it cools a little ; then add your malt (two thirds barley, and one third wheat) a little at a time, stir- ring it with a stick until thoroughly mixed with the water; cover the tub. Boil some more water, take the mash from the bottom of the large tub, put it into a smaller one, and place, this within a larger one, so that there may be two inches space between the bottoms of each tub; set another small tub on the top; this latter should have holes pierced in it, through which pour the ooiling water on the mash, beneath lay straw over, and leave it for an hour and a half; after that time, draw off the water by means of a cock placed between the two tubs ; then pour fresh boiling water over the malt, let it stand again, and repeat this operation as many times as you think necess.ary; the precise number must be regulated according to the in- tended strength of the vinegar. Pour the liquor into casks, and when cold and settled, put it into a large barrel with a head to it; add some beer-lees, cover and leave it for ten hours to ferment; as soon as it is clear, pour it into a cask, previously washed with strong vinegar, put to it some yeast; skim it well, and you will then have vinegar of the best qn.ality. MARASCHINO.* — Take sixteen pounds of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off the stalks; put them into five quarts of brandy to infuse, covered close for three days, then distil the infusion ; distil also a pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of filtered river water, from which you will obtain about a gallon; dissolve in this four pounds and a half of fine sugar ; add it to the liqueur, with two pints and a half of kir.'chenwasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits of rose, the same of orange-flqwer,-<, and three drachms of spirits of jessamine; mix them altogether, run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it; cork them well. RlAnAscHiNO, Conserve of.*—Pound and sift some of the best lump sugar, mix it in a china basin with spirit of maras- chino, until it is of the consistence of pastil paste; then put it into a skillet over the fire, and heat it gently, stirring it constantly (but without letting it boil), till very liquid, when it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin moulds; put these moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. MAnASCHixo, Fromage Bavarois. — Boil a pint of double cream, to which add halfa pound of sugar and six drachms of clarified isinglass; run it through a