EM ( 315 ) LEM the juice of the lemon on them; mix tlie sugar and butter with them; put some rich pull-paste at the bottom of a dish, then put in the preparation, add bus of candied lemon-peel when you have put in the preparation. Bake with great care. Lemons (Rinds of) Mpnnalade. — Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, cut out all the white part, and put the rinds into boiling water; assoon as they begin to soften, take them from I the fire, and throw them into cold water ; I tlien lay them on a sieve to drain, and i make them into marmalade, in the same manner as apricots. Orange rinds are ' done this way. ' Lemon Sauce.*— Put two glasses of ! water into a saucepan, over the fire, and ' as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, salt, pepper, a piece of butter, and the juice of two lemons; make the whole quite hot, and in about five minutes the sauce will be ready for table. Lemon 5at^ce.—Pare a lemon, and cut it into slices; take out the seeds, and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; mix these in a li ttle gravy, then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel, chopped fine. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Foiols,— Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Lemon Sauce (fVhite) for Boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut extremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns; simmer it gently till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, rubbed in a des- j eert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up, then I pour the juice of the lemon strained into ] it, stirring it well. Dish the fowls, and j then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them j together; add salt according to your taste. I Lemon Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound j and a half of white sugar in a quart of I clear water; take nine large lemons, wipe j them perfectly, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar; plunge the lemons into the sugar- ed water, and press them, so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained I in the rind_. Mix the whole together, and strain it through a close hair sieve. Pour the liquid into a sorbetiere, and finish in the same manner as cream sherbet. Lemon Sweetmeats.*— Take a pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to spread the paste with a knife ', add to it a sufticient quantity of grated lenmn- peel to impart the flavour required. The whole being well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, and spread the paste over them, about a quarter of an inch in thicknes.s ; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. Tf you wish to glaze your sweetmeats, boil some sugar with orange flower water to la plume, and when they are taken out of the oven, wash them over with the syrup, which dries almost immediately. Lemon Syllabubs.— Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar according to taste; let it stand some time ; mill or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the froth. Tliey should be made the day before they are wanted. If you should wish them to taste very strong of the lemon, you must make use of the juice of six lemons, and nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep four or five days. Lemons (Syrup of),* — Squeeze as many lemons as will yield about three quarters of a pound of juice, taking par- ticular care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly sound, and that they are none of them in the least degree bitter. Set your juice in the cellar for four days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half of double re- fined sugar into pieces about an inch square ; put them into a gallon matrass, pour the lemon-juice over it, close the matrass with paper, and place it in a bam marie until the sugar is entirely dis- solved ; then extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool gradually j when cold, add two spoonsful of spirit of le- mons, then bottle it, keep it well corked. Lemon Tart.—Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days ; then change them every day with fresh water without salt, for a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half qiiartera. cornerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break ; then put the liquor to the lemons, half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar. Boil these together a quarter of an hour; then put it into a pot, and squeeze. Into it the juice of a lemon; two spoonsful will be sufficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine thin puflT-paste into your patty- pans, which must be small and shallow. Before, you put your tarts in the oven 2 E 2 I