BAR BAR (3S flour, and brown it; tiien put in the mushrooms, and let them liave two or three turns ; put in a little fish broth to moisten them, and salt, pepper, and a faggot of sweet herbs. VVhen your bar- bie is broiled, take off the skin, cut the flesh into long slices, put them among the mushrooms in the same pan, with tails of cray-fish, and asparagus tops blanched ; let them simmer over a gentle fire. When all is enough, take the fat off yourragoflt, and put in some cullisofveal and ham ; then take it off the fire, set it to cool; rub a saucepan with fresh butter, spread of the farce over it an inch thick, or more; beat up an egg, and rub it over it to make the farce lie the smoother, place your ragofit in the bot- tom, cover the poupeton with the same farce, rub it over with beaten eggs, and liake it in an oven, or baking cover, with fire over and under it; when it is baked turn it upside-down, make a hole in the iniddleof the farce, the bigness of acrown piece; pour in some cullis of cray-fish, and serve it hot. Barbel Stewed.—Scale and gut a large barbel, wash it first in vinegar and salt, afterwards in water; put it into a stew- pan, with eel broth sufficient to cover it; add some cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bit of cinnamon; let them stew gently till the fish is done, then take it out, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and pour over the fish. Barbel, to Stetv.—Scald and draw the barbies, then put some wine, fresh but- ter, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs into the stevvpan, and put in the fish ; knead a bit of butter with a little flour; and when they are ready, put it in to thicken the same, and serve it up. Another way.—Some use no butter, but otherwise dress them as above ; and when they are stewed, they serve them with a ragoflt made of mushrooms, truf- fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, fresh butter, pepper and salt, broth made of fish, or .juice of onions. BARBERRY Biscuits.—Press the juice through a sieve fron^two pounds of barberries, and mix with it five pounds of sifted sugar ; whisk the whites of four eggs, and add them to the fruit: pre- pare some square paper cases, fill them with the jam, make them quite smooth, lay them on sieves, and put them into a stove, and let them remain six or eight days. When yeifectly dry, take away the papers ; keep them in a dry place. Barberries, to Candy.—Take the barberries out of the preserve, and wash off the syrup in warm water; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. nARDERRY Cow^mie.*—Putapoundof ripe barberries and half an ounce of powdered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a glass of water ; boil them three or four times, and press the juice through a sieve. Replace the vessel on the fire with the juice, and add to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au casst. Boil together a few times, and then pour the conserve into cases. Barberry Conserve.—Take out the seeds from a pound and a half of very- ripe barberries, put some water into a deep silver dish or pan, and put in your barberries as you seed them ; after this boil ithem with one ounce of powdered fennel seed until the barberries are broken ; then squeeze them in a sieve or through a cloth, to extract the juice from them; clean the vessel in which you put your barberries at first; and put into it the juice just extracted from the fruit, and pour on it two pounds of sugar boiled aw cussi; then boil this preparation until the sugar is done to petit cassi; then take it off' the fire and stir it with a spoon until the sugar bub- bles up ; then pour it into moulds. Barberry Drops.—Cut off' the black tops, and roast the fruit belore the fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin, then set the basin into a saucepan of water the size of the top of the basin, and stir the barberries till they become thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a halt of the best sugar pounded as fine as possible. Beat the fruit and su- gar together for two hours and a half (or more for a large quantity), then drop it on sheets of white thick paper. If, when you drop, it runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will look rough if you put too much. Barberry Ice—Put some barberries into a pan without water, set it over a gentle fire, stirring them constantly ; when warm, pass them through a sieve, into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar; if to thick, put a little water, but no lemon juice, as the barberries are sufficiently acid without; then put it into the subotiire to congeal. Barberry Ice Cream.—Vat a large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint of cream ; add the juice of a lemon, and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed, sec Ice. Barberry Ice (If'ater).— Mix one spoonful of bai berry jam with the juice ofalemon, a pint of water, and a little cochineal; pass it through a sieve and