( 192 ) C R E C R E good marascliino.and complete the opera- tion according to direction. See Cacao Cream u la l<‘ran(;aise. You may vary tliis recipe, by putting in half a glass of arrack or rum, instead of the maraschino. Cream Francaise an Varfait Amour.* —Take ten ounces of lump-sugar, and rasp on it the zestes of two lemons and a cedrat; scrape the sugar as usual, and put it into five irlasses of nearly boiling milk, with ten cloves, bruised ; cover it, and when nearly cold, add, a few at a time, the yolks of eight eggs, and a grain of salt. Thicken the cream over a mo- derate fire, and finish it as directed. See Cacao Cream d la Franqaise. Cream/<Va«eawe aux Qtiatre Zestes.* —Take a piece of sugar weighing ten ounces ; upon which rasp, in the usual way, the zestes of a lemon, a cedrat, a sweet and a Seville orange; infuse the scraped sugar in five glasses of nearly boiling milk; cover it, and when no more than lukewarm, pour into it by degrees the yolks of eight eggs, with a grain of salt. Finish as directed. See Cacao Cream d la Fran^aise. Cream Fried.*—Boil half a pint ef milk with the peel of a lemon; put to two eggs as much flour as they will take up; then add four more eggs, and the boiling milk without the lemon-peel ; mix it well that there may be no lumps ; set it over the fire, stirring it constantly ; in a quarter of an hour add a little salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a few drops of orange flower-water; finish boiling it, <md then add the yolks of four eggs, two bitter ma- caroons, and some marchpane crushed very small; pour this preparation on a buttered tin, spread it out for about an inch in thickness, and when cold, cut it into lozenges, circles, or such other forms as you may like better} dip them in an omelet, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them well, sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them. Cream Fried.*—gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, with six egBS, (the whiles and yolks also) a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers shred fine, a pir:t of milk, a small lump of sugar, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over n slow fire, for half an hour, keeping constantly stir- ring ; wlien the cream is very thick, spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it; when cold, you may cut it into anv form you please, and fry in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a .salamander. Cream Fried, d la Parisienne.* — Make your cream, with the addition of six eggs, exactly the same as cream au lain marie; when quite cold, cut it into pieces of whatever form you may chuse, either round, square, oval, &c., but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows; put three quarters of a pound of sifted flour into a pan, pour on it a little water, in which two ounces of butter liave been melted; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the, butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper consistence; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily, put in a pinch of salt, and the whites of two eggs whipped firm. Make your frying-pan quite hot, dip your cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour ; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze ibem with the salamander. Any of the flavoured creams au lain marie, may be dressed in this manner. Instead of frying the cream in batter as above, you may bread them as follows ; having beaten half a dozen eggs, dip in. them each piece of cream, drain, and then mask them with bread crumbs, grated very small; dip them a second time in egg, and bread them again,taking care to preserve the form; fry, sprinkle with sugar, and glaze them as the first mentioned. Creaji Fried a la Paiissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of sifted flour, three glasses of boiling milk, and a pinch of salt; make your cream in the usual way, (see Cream Paiissiere;) then add a quarter of a )>ound of good butter, the same of powder sugar, of sweet and bitter macaroons, a spoonful of orange-flowers pralinecs. Pour your cream on a buttered baking-plate, and when cold, cut it in pieces, and fry it as fried cream d la Parisienne. Cream Fritters.*—Mix a handful of flour, with three whole eggs, .and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some tlried orange flowers, browned in suvar, a little candied lemon-peel chop- ped very fine, h.alf a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a lump of sugar; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream terns to a thick paste; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. When cold, cut the paste into small nieces, roll them in your bands tiil they become round, and try them of a good colour; when you serve them, powder them all over with sugar. * ~ , Cream Friticrsd la Danpltnc. —Take