FRI ( 255 ) FRI Z 2 table served upon a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. FaiTTERs a VAnglo-Frawiaise.* — Take a marrow puridiiiK, and when nearly cold, cut it into thin slice.s, and then cut them again into pieces two inches long, by three quarters of an inch wide, dip tliern into batter, and fry them in the usual manner; when drained, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them vej-y hot. The batter for the above fritters is made as follows Put a glass and a half of water, a grain of salt, and two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan ; when it boils stir in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it a i-ather firm batter, keep it stirring three minutes, then pour it into another vessel. Fritters au Blanc.*—Mix together a handful of rire-flonr and some milk, set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange-flowers ; when it has become of a proper consistence, take it from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them in bat- ter and fry them. Fritters Blondin.*—Put some butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of salt, keep it on the fire till it boils; then mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a consistent paste, which will not stick to the fingers; spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may require, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you maydiink proper, and fry them of a nice colour, in the best oil; sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. Fritters {French) of Brandy Fruits* —Take a dozen apricots (or otlier fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, and cut them in half; then wrap them in wafers cut round and previously moistened, dip them in the same kind of batter as that used for fritters d I’Anglo-Francaise, and fry them; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Fritters d la Cote,* — Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter made of milk., yolks of eggs, and flour, fry them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with sugar. Elder flowers are made into fritters in the same manner. Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as thin as possible, to tlie form of a long square ; on part of tliis lay small quan- tities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other com- pletely, press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cook- ing, and cut out your fritters with a cir- cular paste-cutter of two inches in dia- meter ; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls ; as soon as they are_ of a proper colour take them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with fine sugar, and serve them. Fritters, Mignon.* — Put two good spoonslul of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon-peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and half a tea-spoonful of cream ; stir it over a slow fire, and, when done and well thickened, spread the cream upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it into bits with a paste-cutter, the same as [orpetits-pates ; dip each bit into a paste made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs; fry the fritters, and serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. Fritters, Royal.—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, and let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin ; beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a whisk, and add flour sufficient to give it the proper consist- ence of batter. Put in some sugar and fry them quick. Fritters, Souffles.*—Mix the yolks of four eggs, half a spoonful of olive oil, and a pinch of salt, with half apound of flour; whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, and add it to the rest. When your paste is of the consistence of a tliick batter, take a spoonful of it and roll it in flour ; make each ball about the size of a walnut, throw them into a hot/re^Kre of oil, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them hot. Fritters, So?#es.*—Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little ; take a little qf it out with a spoon, throw it into a frying-pan with boiling oil; the moment it rises, take it out, and proceed in the same way till all the bat- ter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, and serve. Fritters, Spanish.—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, about the thickness of your finger, in whatever shape you please ; soak it in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and