CAB 90 CAB it is well boiled, takeout three parts of the water, substituting the same quan- tity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, put- ting the cabbage also into the tureen whole; serve quick. Ckuax(XE(fVhite,Pickled).*—Slice your cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four hours; strain it very dry, then put it in a stone ,jar; with allspice, mace and ginger; boil your vinegar, and pour it on boiling hot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. Cabbage Soup a la Proven<fale.—Boil different sorts of vegetables together, including half a peck of peas, and a cab- bage blanched, cut in quarters, and tied with packthread. Add a wine glass full of the best oil. When the vegetables are boiled, and your broth properly salted, strain it, then leave it on to slew, serving it up, garnished with cabbages. CabeageandCheese Soitp d la Proven- vale,—Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and after blanching,boil it in water; when three parts done add a quarter of a poifnd of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate half a pound of gruyiire, or par- mesan cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before dinner, make the soup in the fol- lowing manner. Take a metal, or earthenware tureen that will stand the fire, and that can be used at table; first, put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a cloth; next, some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with the cabbage, &c. alternately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers’ width of the top, pour on its contents about half a pint of the water in which the cabbages (after being blanched) were boiled, making the cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of the tureen, by piercing its contents in several places with a knife; then place the tureen on a stove of mo- derate heat,_ letting the soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table, the cabbage broth will have been all ab- sorbed; some persons, consequently, add more hot brotn to it at the moment of serving; but the true method of serving it d la Provcngalc, is to send it up dry, using with it, at table, only the finest oil. Cabbage Pudding.—Take two pounds of beef-suet, as mueh of the loan part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and scald it, then bruise the suet, vra! ..nd cabbage together in a marble mortar; season them with mace, nutmeg, ginger, a little pepper and salt; some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries;—in winter, some verjuice; mix then all well together, with the yolks of four or five eggs, well beat; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. Purple Cabhuge to Pickle.—Take two cauliflowers, two red cabbages, half a peck of kidney beans, six sticks with six cloves of garlic on each stick ; wash all well, give them one boil up, then sti-ain them in a sieve, and lay them leaf by leaf upon a large table, and salt them with bay salt; then lay them to dry in the sun, or in a slow oven, until as dry as cork. Cabbage Ragout.*—Take the half of a middling sized cabbage, boil it for half an hour, and then change it in cold water, squeeze it well, and take out the heart; cut the cabbage into small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with a slice of good butter; turn it a few times over the fire, and shake in some flour ; put in sufficient gravy to give colour to the ra- goftt; let it boil over a slow fire till the cabbage is done, and reduced to a thick sauce; season it with salt, coarse pep- per, and a little grated nutmeg, serve under any meat you think proper. Cabbage Ragodt.—Scald one cabbage cut into quarters, (savoys_ are best); drain the water quite out, tie them with packthread, and braze in a good braze ; serve ndth a fine thick cullis sauce, pretty high of pepper. Cabbage Divide a cabbage in the middle, blanch it in hot water, squeeze it, tie it with packthread, and put it into a stew-pan, and stew it d la braize; when it is stewed, drain it, un- tie it, cut it in little slices into a sauce- pan, .and let it simmer Avith some cullis of veal, and bam ; afterwards put in some cullis of veal and ham to thicken it, and serve it with roasted, boiled, or stewed meat. Cabbage /ferf.*—Boil your cabbage for a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces ; then put it into a stew-pan wdth a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire, stirring it very frequently whilst dressing, to mix it well with the butter. Cabbages (/(erf).—They are mostly stewed toeatwith ham. bacon, or snicked s.ausagee, though sometimes without any meat ; thev are very strong eating, and should be first .scalded, then stewed with butter, pepper, salt, and cloves : and vinegar adiicd <0 it just before serving: they arc reckoned wholesome in veai