B B3 II A M ( 2S1 ) sary, and put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, tliyme, bay-leaf, and coriander; poor a bottle of Madeira or Xeres upon it, cover it witit a clean cloth, and close the pan as tinht ns possible, andletit remain twenty-fourhours ; then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fasten it with paste, so that it may be com- pletely enclosed, lie it on a spit, and put it to roast for three hours ; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, paste paper over the hole, and let it roast another liotir. When done, take oft'the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced espagnole, glaze the bam, and serve it. Ham Roll.—Make a farce with some ham fat, and sweet herbs, chopped very fine; cut several thin slices of ready boiled or roasted Wesiphalia ham ; have ready some French-roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it (so as to cover it), spread some farce over the liam, and on that a piece of dough flattened as before, then ham, farce, and dougli again, and so on alter- nately, till the roll is as large as you wish it to be j then cover the whole with dough, hake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat that re- mains, from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash, with a rolling-pin ; put it into a saucepan, with t'liee spoonsful of gravy; set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring it all the time, to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy ; c>iver it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain oft' the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. Ham and Spinach.* — Take a ham dressed as directed au valurel., put it on a sheet of paper, and place it in a sauce- pan sufiiciently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following ingredients;—two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme and parsley (all shred very small, and pre- viously wai med up in butter), a hoitleof white wine, and a spoonful of cmsommc; when these are half done, strain tlie li- quor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done, glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach, tossed up in butter, with IIA R salt, nutmeg, and inignonetle, twospoons- ful of reduced espagnole, and a httle of the ham liquor; lay the spinach thus prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gently j P“^^ paper as usual round the knuckle, and S6rv6 it* llAin Toast.* — Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices; then take an equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours; take tliem out, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, and half a glass of stock ; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham ; pour the sauce over them. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size and shape of the bread. HaMj fVestphalia.*— Rub your ham well with four ounces of pounded salt- petre, and let it lay: the next day boil a quart of the strongest stale beer, with bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each half a pound ; pour it, whilst hot, on the ham, rubbing it all over tho- roughly. Rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pretty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every day), for three days and as many nights; after which, hang them over a baker’s oven, or in any other dry place where there is the smoke from a wood fire. Be sure you fill the hock-bone with salt. HAKE.—Tkis animal should be kept five or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed ; the flesh then becomes dark and soft; but when fresh killed, it is still' and pale. Of as old hat e the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young hare; the latter may likewise be distinguished by the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and sharp, whereas in an old one, the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. Hare.—As soon as the cook receives a hare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for dressing, cut oft' the fotir legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs ; leave the t:iil whole, then draw the skin over tlie back, and slip out the four legs; cut it from the neck and head ; skin the ears, and leave them on. Clean the vent. Cut the sinews under the liind legs ; being them forward; run a sliewer through one hind