( 291 ) I N D ICE whatever it may be, is entirely concealed, and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, \vluch will collect at the bottom of tlie pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sorbetiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced, take it from the pail, dip the mould in warm water, but not to let it remain an instant j dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner; the preparation of the articles of which they are composed, constitutes the only difference between them. Ice for Iceing {/tow to prepare).—Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt; you must pre- pare in the coolest part of the house, that as little as the warm air as possible may come. The ice and salt being in a buc- ket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spa- tula or spoon in, and stir it well, remov- ing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If tlie ice-cream or water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let the ice off as it thaws. Iceing for Cakes.—For a large cake, beat and sift eight ounces of line sugar, put it into a mortar, with four spoonsful of rose-water, and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk it well, ana w'hen the cake is almost cold, dip a fea- ther in the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it retn.aiii long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. Ice a very large Cake. — Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then, by degrees, beat a pound of double-refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white; then, with a thin broad bit of hoard, spi'ead it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. Iceing/or Tarts.—Beat the j'olk of an egg and some melted butler well toge- ther ; w’ash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them into the oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Ice kFater.—Hub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give it the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it is put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the Chinajuice, andoiily a little Seville, used, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Imperial.—Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lemons, into a stone jar, pour on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, half a pint to the whole quantity. India Pickle.*—Take one pound of ginger, put it into a pan with salt and water, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put it into a pan with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay till all the following ingredients are prepared; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, then let it lay in salt for another three days, then take it out and let it lay in the sun for another, till half dry ; an ounce of long pepper, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard- seed bruised, half an ounce of turmeric, beat very small; pat all these ingredi- ents together in a jar, then put in as much vinegar, as, when the cabbage; or whatever you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar. Then take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut them into small pieces, throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun (when it is very hot) for three days, drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry, then put them into the pickle, being particular that they are completely covered with the vinegar; tie it up close, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, carefully watch it from time to time, to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste very fast. India Pickle.*—One gallon of vinegar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a pound of long pepper split, half a pound of flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scraped, and split, and two ounces of turmeric, when you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour tlie vinegar boil- ing hot over it, and stir it every day for a week. Then put in your cabbage, cauli- flower, or whatever you intend to pickle. Irish Slew—Take the best end of a neck of mutton, take off the under bone, 2C2