V I N f 497 ) V I N 2 U3 the vermicelli may not_ burst; the soup ought not to be very iliick. Haifa pound is sufficient for eight or ten persons. V’er.micelli Soup tl la Jardiniere*— Take the same roots as mentioned for a Macedoine, cut them into fillets instead of dice ; cook them in some stock before you put in the vermicelli ; season with salt and pepper; skim the soup fre- quently while boiling. Ver.micelli Soup tvilh Onions.*—Cat the best parts of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter ; then add as much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup througli a tammy, before you serve it. VESPETRO.*—Take half a pound of each of the following seeds: angelica, coriatulei', fennel,and carraway, the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges, in- fuse all these in two gallons and a half of the best brandy, close the vessel hermeti- caily. In five days time, distil it in the Inin marie alembic, and draw from the above quantity five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven pounds of sugar in a gal- lon of pure river water ; add this syrup to the liqueur, filter, and bottle it. VINEGAR.—This is an acid liquor, prepared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most common method of making it, in England, is from malt, and the pro- cess is as follows :—infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after which put the liquor into barrels, in a room heated with stoves, so that a mo- derate warmth maybe ke;)t up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regularly. By the end of that time tlie whole will be completely soured, and must now be changed into other barrels; lay a tile on tiie bung-holes to keep out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a free circulation of air, and then place them in the open air for four or five months, according as tlie weather is warm or otherwise ; during the whole of this period, the fermentation proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is nearly done, 'i'he next operation is this : the vinegar is poured into large vessels, called rape- tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, or other fruit, from which wine has been made; fill one of these tuns en- tirely with the vinegar, and anotherabout three fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn oil'; when it must be closely barrelled. Vinegar may also be made in much smaller quantities for domestic purposes; the materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar ; raisins, currants, and ripe gooseberries, however, are the prin- cipal ; sometimes it is made from brown sugar, and water alone. The proporr tions are the same as those necessary for strong wine ; make the barrel about three fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put in the bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exr posed to the sun, or, if it be winter, near the fire. The fermentation should be moderate and constant till the vinegar is complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mix- ing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to powr der, and put into a vinegar or any other cask; if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam from vinegar; in either case the liquor should be stirred frequently ; the second fermentation will speedily com- mence; it will become healed, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will be produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid, will produce ex- cellent vinegar; this, however, is a mis- taken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and better will be the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which are .'ubjoined. The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the wine, of which they intend to make their vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which are close gratings of lime twigs; these serve to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to the twigs, leave the liquor perfectly clear. They then pro- cure a number of casks, each containing a hundred gallons, either new or which have previously contained vinegar; these are set upright, and in the top of every one is bored a hole, two inches in diame- ter, these are kept constantly open ; ti c last mentioned casks are called Mothers ; pour into all of them twenty five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week 's time, add three gallons of wine, drawn from the first mentioned casks; continue to add the wine, nt intervals of a week, until the Mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end of