PHE P H E ( 392 ) sausages ; poach these, and drain them ; ^vhen cold, bread them, dip them in eggs beaten with a little melted butter and salt; broil, and serve them with a fume, made of the remnants. - Pheasant wit/i Cabbages.*— Take a trussed pheasant, lard the breast and legs with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and pounded spice; cover it with bacon, line a stewpan with bacon also, and put in the pheasant, with a modeiate sized ser- velas, four carrots, four onions, two cloves, two bay-leaves, some slices of veal, and a pound of streaked bacon; blanch the cabbages, tie them up, that they may not lose their shape, and put them to the pheasant, with stock and pepper; let them simmer for two hours; then drain the cabbages, place the phea- sant in the centre of a dish, the other articles round, and serve with B.fumet of game. Pheasant wUh Celery. — Prepare a pheasant the same as a (owl is prepared for boiling; then stew it in any kind of good braize till it is well done; have ready six line heads of celery, cut into rounds about the size of a Ehiliing,hlanch them for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, and then put them to slew till nearly dry, in good stock; have ready some good brown sauce, with a bit of butter mixed in it; put the celery to this, add one squeeze of lemon-juice, stir it gently, and pour the whole over the pheasant, and serve it to table hot. Pheasant {Fillets of) d la Chevalier.* —Take eight tillets, put aside the small ones, (which must he fried lightly, to lay in the centre of the dish), ti im and lard the others ; put slices of bacon and veal, the remaiiuler of the pheasants, two car- rots, four onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, into a saucepan ; lay in the fillets nicely; pour over them one glass of white wine, two of consomme, a little salt, and cover the whole with a buttered paper; set the pan on the fire, and as soon as it boils, lessen the fire beneath, and cover ihe lid with hot coals; in about an hour take out the fillets, drain, and glaze them. Strain and reduce the liquor, add three ladies- ful of espagnole', when the sauce is of the right consistence, strain it again into a dish, and serve the fillets in it, laid on fried bread. Pheasant, Croquettes of.*—Take the white meat from three pheasants (roast- ed), remove all the skin and nei'ves, and cut the meat into dice ; put a latilefni of bechamel into a saucepan, reduce it to half, then add to it two ounces of fresh butter, which must dissolve in the sauce without being put on the fiie; strain it over the minced pheasant, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix the whole together well, and when cold, lay it in heaps nearly as big as an egg; give them what shape you please, roll them in bread-crumbs, after which soak them a minute in eggs, beaten with salt and pep- per; bread them a second time, and fry the croquettes in the usual way. Pheasant, to Dress.—A pheasant may be done in almost every manner that a fowl is dressed, besides being made into pelits pates, croquettes, m an aspic jelly, or Italian salad. Pheasant, d la d’Estaing.*—Lard a good sized pheasant, give it a few turns in some melted l)utter, then tie slices of bacon round, and roast it. In the mean- time, take the roes of carp and other fish, with which make a matelote] add to it some balls ol godiveau, trufides, morels, sweet herbs, small onions, veal sweet- breads, and any other articles you may choose, all diessed in veal gravy ; when the pheasant is done, take oil'the bacon, put it into a dish, and pour the above ra- gofit over it. Ph EASANT,a VEtottffade.*—Your phea- sant being properly prepared and truss- ed, mb some bacon with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon ; lard the breast and legs w’ith this, and tie up the bird in slices of bacon, line a stewpan with more slices, put the phea- santon them, and pour over some poe/^e, and equal quantities of white wine and stock; simmer it for two hours; then drain, untie, and serve it over an essence of game. Pheasant, Farce d VEspagnole. — Make a veal forcemeat, and put part of it into the crop of the pheasant (it being prepared for stewing), and make the re- mainder into long rolls ; blanch and stew them in the same manner as directed for pigeons, with the same sauce. Pheasants, in Fillets.—Cut out the fillets of the breast, the same as from a fowl, lay them on a table, and with a large knife cut them into three thin slices, then lay them caiefully in some clarified butter. When the whole is done, sprinkle a little s.alt over them ; do them for a minute over a quick fire (turning them on each side), but he careful that they are not brown ; drain them from the butter, and dish them in the form of a star, and pour over them some butter sauce, very hot, with half a lemon squeezed into it. Pheasant, ett Galantine.*—Choose a large pheasant for this purpose; having picked it, fte. split it down ti.e back bone, and spread it open on a cloth, cover it entirely with a game farce; cut some