( 267 ) G L A GOD into an earthen 'v'th a Buflicient quantity of the sugar, cold, to cover it, and let it stand for a couple of days ; tlien pour the syrup from the ginger to the remainder of the sugar; boil it some time, and when cold, pour it on the gin- ger again, and set ithy for three days, at least. Then talce the syrup from the ginger, boil it, and put it hot oyer the ginger; proceed in this manner till you find the sugar has entered the ginger; boiling the syrup ami skimming oil' the scum that rises each time, until the syrup becomes rich as well as tiieginger. If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink and not take tl’e sugar. ^V'hen green ginger cannot be pro- cured, take large races of Jamaica gin- ger, boiled several times in water till lender, pared neatly, and proceed the same as above. Gi.NOEa Sprigs.—Take three eggs, one pound of sugar, a pound of flour, a little ginger, two spoonsful of rose-water; mix the whole into a paste, and cut into what form you please. Ginger Wine.—Put ten gallons of wa- ter into a boiler, witli lifteen pounds of lump-sugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all well together while cold; when the liquor boils, skim it well; put in half a poutid of common white ginger bruised, let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readi- ness the rind of seven lemons (the rind must be very tliin), and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonsful of yeast; to a quart of the li- quor put two ounces of isinglass-shavings, while warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up; in three weeks bottle it; and in three months it will be fit to olriiik. GLACE, Rmjale.*—Put the white of a new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a Buflicient quantity of white powder- sugar to make a ^/ace or icing, neither too dry nor loo liquid ; beat it well, and add a little lemon-juice to whiten it. By mixing with this ,g/ace, carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach-juice, &e.; it will be either rose-coloured, yellow, blue, green, &c. according to your taste. GLAZE.*—Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear ; then put it into a saucepan and reduce it over a brisk fire : as soon as it is sulliciently done, that is, when it sticks to the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, add a small piece of fresh butler to it, to correct its saltuess. Glaze.* — Make a consomme with whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may he in the house ; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites , of eggs beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, and then set on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid; as soon as theeggs are set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth; reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly vviik a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking ; then pour it into a pot for use. When wanted, put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow fire ; ami, in this state, lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing, by means of a feather- Glaze, of Roots.*—Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also he added, and veal, if you think proper ; moisten the whole with stock or water, boil your ve- getables over a gentle fire, and proceed in the usual manner. GODARD.—This is the same as TJa- goiU Financiere, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons, gautiers, and larded sweetbreads; keep your sauce thin. GODIVEAU.* — Take fillet of veal (or breasts of fowl or game), fresh pork (or sausage-meat), beef-marrow or suet, equal quaiiti ties of each, veal s vveethread s, truffles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound them all together, and put in (one at a lime) the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pound- ing continually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. Make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it he sufficiently salt; sweet herbs may he added when you are about to use it. The godiveuu is used as & farce for tonrtes ami hot pies. Godivbau {Hot) Pie of.* — Make a raised crust, about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper; on the bottom of which lay some godiveau, over this place some miislirooms cooked in butter, tiyo or tiiree artichoke-bottoms, cut into pieces, and tlieii lay some more godiveau foriried into small sausages. Cover the pie with the paste, dores ami hake it. When done, open it, and pour III any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. Godiveau, Tourte of.* — Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use ; spread oyer it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried liglitly and drained ; then some artichoke-bottoms,