309 ) LEM LEA top crust, draw away what fat there may be, pour a rich ragoOt into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. Larks Roasted d la Frantoise. —Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty them; wrap them in slices of bacon, fasten them on a spit, and roast them; lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them; serve the larks on this toast when •lone. ^ . L.IRKS, Salmi o/.*—Having properly prepared your larks, cut them into quar- ters ; take the livers and gizzards, bruise them, and then boil them In alittlestockj red wine, with shalots minced, salt, and pepper; in about a quarter of an hour put your birds into this, and simmer tliem an hour; serve the salmi with fried bread round. , LAV END E R Fmegar.*—Ta\!B half a pound of lavender flowers, dry them quickly, put them into a jug with a gal- lon of the best white wine vinegar; set it in the sun for a week, covered close ; then draw it oft’, press the dregs, filter it through blotting-paper and bottle it; keep them closely corked. LAVER.—This plant grows on the roc’KS near the sea in the west of Eng- land, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Rub some of it in a dish, and put it over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange ; stir it till hot; it is eaten with roast meat. LaZAGNES.*—The only difference between these and nouilles is, that the lazagnes are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. Lazagne Soup, with Cheese.—The la- sagne is a paste, resembling macaroni; the only oifterence consists in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of being in pipes. Wash and boil it instock, like rice, with a little salt, drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lasagne at the bottom of the_soup-dish with some pieces of butter ' on it; strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere I cheese over them ; then put a layer ef lazagnes, and so on, alternately, till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last layer is cheese ; colour it with a I salamander, pour some good stock over, ( and serve it. I LEAVES, to Green, for ornamenting Fruit.—Take small leaves of a pear-tree, ( keep them close stopped in a pan of ver- I juice and water : give them a boil in some ! syrup of apricots; put them between two j pieces of glass to dry; smooth and cut I them into the shape of apricot-leaves I (the leaves should be procured with I stalks); stick them about tlie apricots or any other preserved fruit; but the leaves must be cut in the shape of the leaf which belongs to the fruit you orna- ment. LEEKS.—Leeks are most generally used for soups, ragofits, and other made dishes, they are very rarely brought to table; in which case dress them as fol- lows Put them into the stock-pot till about three parts done ; then take them out, drain, and soak them in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves; drain them again, stuff the hearts with a farce, dip them in batter, and fry them. {Scotch) Soup.—Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled intoastewpan, with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper, and salt; simmer tlrem an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into'the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, taking great care that it does not burn at the bottom. Leek Soup.*—Wash and cut some leeks in pieces, about an inch in length, give them a few turns over the fire in some butter; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about thr^ quarters of an hour, soak your bread in the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. Leeks with Tbaifs.—Take a dozen very fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and wash them well; tie them like asparagus, and put them in a stewpan of boiling water, with a handful of salt; when well done, put them on a sieve to drain; in the meantime make two thick toasts, well butter them, serve the leeks upon them. LEMONADE.—To a gallon of spring wa- ter add some cinnamon and cloves, penty of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, and a bit of the peel of each; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of six eggs, and the yolk of one ; give it a boil, and then let it simmer for ten minutes ; then run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold, before it is drank. Lemonade.*—Take four lemons, pare the ripd as thin as possible; squeeze them into a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours, then pass it through ajelly- bag into decanters. Lemo.nade to be made a day before wanted.—Pare two dozen of good sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quartsof hot, not boil- ing water, and cover it over for three or four hours; rub some fine sugar on the lemons to obtain the essence, and put it jnto a China bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons ; add to it one pound and half of fine sugar, then put the water