( 1-23 ) CAR I I I I I I CAR aa a cliicken fricass<*e, with iTUiahrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sance. Carp Roes, English Fashion.—Boil acalded roes about n quarter of an hour in some good jellybroih, seasoned with pepper and salt; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon squeeze, and let the sauce be of a middling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. A la Bechamelle, Aont with Bechamel sauce; scald them lirst, and simmer them a while in it. CinvRoesfricasseed.—Put into astew- pan A little butter, a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fire, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think ptx)per, with a little good broth; stew them about a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt when you put in the broth. When all is ready, thicken it with the yolks of two or three eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. Carp Roes fried.—Scald them as usual; and when they are well drained, mari- nate about an hour with lemon-juice and a little salt; drain and flour them to fry in a very hot friture, to give them a good brown colour; drain upon a sieve, or with a cloth; squeeze an orange over, and garnish with fried parsley. Carp Roes, Petits-pdUs maigres of.*— Blanch a fine carp roe in salt and water, cut it in small pieces, about three quar- ters of an inch square; place one of these upon each petit-pdu, which has been previously filled with a fame fine of carp roes. Finish them as usual (see Petits- pdUs), and serve them with beohamelle maigre. Carp Roes, Pie of.* —Make a farce as follows ; take a pound of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it a quarter of a pound of panada, and pound it again ; add a pound and a half of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf's udder; when all is well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of fine herbs, eight drachms of sniced salt, and a spoon- ful of velouU, and a quarter of a pound of pounded anchovies. Take a score of carp roes, and a very fine turbot, cut them in pieces, weigh them, and put sniced salt proportioned to their weight. Sliglitly warm two pounds of fresh butter witli two spoonsful of shalots, four of parsley, champignons and truffles, shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual; gar- nish the bottom and sides with the farce; lay in some of the turbot; season them with spiced salt, and mask them with a spoonful of butter and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce ; then lay five of the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above; then the turbot, and so on, till the dish is tilled ; put in what- ever spice and farce which iriay re- main, and over the whole lay slices of bacon ; cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done, remove the top, and potir in melted butter and sweet herbs. Carp Roes, Ragodt of.—Soak slices of ham and ve.al about half an hour, on a slow tire ; then add a good bit of butter, with mushrooms, two cloves, a faggot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of while wine, a little veal gravy and cullis; boil these till the veal is done, skim the liquor, and take out the veal and ham : scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well; (it ought to be as thick as very good cream), season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed ; when ready, serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in that case you must have fish for the cullis, instead of ham and veal. CARRAWAY Cake.—Dry a quarter of'a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it is crumbled so small that none of it is to be seen; then take six spoonsful of rose-water, half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, and three quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, and the whites of two, and yolks of four eggs ; mix all these well together, let it lie before the fire, and when you make it up put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, and three quarters of a pound of carraway- comfits. Bake it. Carraway Cakes.—To a pound of flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight spoonsful of good yeast, four spoonsful of rose-water, the yolks of three eggs, as many carraways as you please, four ounces of sugar, and some ambergris; knead all into a paste, make it up into any form you please, and when they come out of the oven, strew powder- sugar. Carraway Comfits.—Take some fine carraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserv- ing-pan, about two feet wide, and with two handles and two pieces of iron made as a ring on each side ; then you must have a pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a hook to each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch as white as you can got, and just soften it, M2 1