V IN V 10 ( 498 ) which period they generally draw oflFlhe vinegar, taking care always to leave the Mothers half full, at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use, is, by plunging a stave into it; if on taking it out, a white line is perceptible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of stoves, the tempei ature should be raised to eighteen degrees of Reaumur. Paris vinegar varies from the above, and the process is very simple. A large quantity of wine lees is put into coaree sacks, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind of press; by means of a screw, every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees; this operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus ex- tracted is putinto casks ; in the headings a hole is made, as above, which holes are left constantly open; in summer time the casks so filled are placed in the sun, and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the fermentation will last double the time, and must be assisted by artificial warmth. It sometimes happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that the hand cannot be borne in it; in this case, the progress of the fermentation must be checked by adding more wine, until it proceeds more regularly. When the vinegar is made, put it into casks, which have the beecii twigs at the bottom, as above mentioned ; let it remain a fort- night, by which lime it will be sufficiently fermented to draw oil' into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also practised in France; a few quarts are drawn from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an equal quantity of very clear white wine is put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, and keep it in a place where the heat is moderate and regular. In a month’s time draw off the same quan- tity as above, and pour in an equal por- tion of white wine. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a constant sup- ply for a length of time without leaving the slightest deposit. ViNEOAn in Balls.— Gather bramble berries when half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to a powder ; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar, about the size of nuts ; dry them very dry, and keep them in boxes; when wanted, take some wine, or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use. of it. ^ ^ , Vinegar /’;v'/if«n«itT.*-Take tarragon, savory, civet, shalot and garlic, of each three ounces, a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put them into a jar with two gallons of the best vinegar; cover the jar, and place it where it will be exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well, filter and bottle it. Cork the bottles tight. VIOLETS Candied. — Pick off the green stalks from some double violets; boil some sugar to sovffle; put in the vio- lets, and keep them in till tlie sugar again ho\\s, [Q sovffle; then rub the sugar against the aides ol the pan until it is white ; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then sift and dry them. VlOLETS to Rock Candy. — Pick the leaves off the violets ; then boil some of the best, and finest sugar to sovffle, pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep; then sirew the violet le.aves as thick as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it remain for ten days; when it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup ; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. Violets, Conserve o/.*—Take a quar- ter of a pound of early violets, picked; bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds of sugar to casse, take it off, put in the pulp, and mix them together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up, pour the conserve into the moulds. Violet Drops.*—Take a certain quan- tity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water; use this mix- ture, and make your drops precisely as directed. You may, if you please, per- fume it with oil of violets, but that is not necessary, as the syrup imparts suffi- cient odour. (See Orange-Jlotrer Drops.) ViohET Drops.—Take the juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue colour; mix the whole well toge- ther, and dry it over the fire, the same as all others, and drop them off a knife on paper, the usual size of drops; let them stand till cold, be careful that your mixture is not too tliin ; when the drops are cold, put them into papei-ed boxes. Violets, Marmalade of.*—Take three pounds of violets, and four pounds of su- gar, put the former into a mortiir and liruise themto a pulp ; in the meantime boil the sugar to sovffle, then add the llowers; stir them together, add two pounds of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times, put the niar- malnde into pots. VlOLETS, Syrup of.*—Pound very lightly