( 67 ) BIS B 1 S then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and pro- ceed as above. . Biscuit Sea,* d la Fran^aisc, — Mix half a pound of flour with the grated rind of a lemon, four eggs, and s little salt; stir them with a wooden spoon; lay this preparation in two large cases, dorez and bake them in a tolerably hot oven. When done, take them out of the cases whilst hot, and cut them in pieces the size of a little finger; put them again into the oven to dry, and colour them. . Biscuits (Small).—Make a paste with a quarter of a pound of flour, three spoonsful of fine powder-sugar, and the same of marmalade; add whites of eggs to work it pretty soft; and make this paste to what shape and size you please. Biscuits, Spice.—Take three pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace pounded, and one pound of powder- sugar ; mix them all together on your slab; boil three pounds of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingre- dients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rolling-pin ; lay it on a sheet of paxier, flat it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher in the mid- dle than at the ends; put it into a very hot oven; when done, take it out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. Biscuits, Fine Sponge. — Break twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put three quar- ters of a pound of powder-sugar, stir them well with a wooden spoon, till it rises in large bladders; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorporated, add ten ounces of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir them all together well, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins whilst hot. Biscuits (Spoon).*—Break four eggs, put the yolks and whites into separate basins; add to the former a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; having grated on It the zesfeot a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about halfof them to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder-sugar, and place them on baking tins, and, as ‘the sugar dis- solves, and they shine, put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. When cold, detach them from the paper vvith a thin knife-blade, and lay tlitm by, in couples, the glazed sides outwards, till wanted. Biscuits (Siweer).*—Take halfa pound of fine pounded sugar, and sift it througli a tammy. Put the whites of twelve eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen; whip tiie whites to a snow, and then enrefuliy pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently; place your pan over a chafing-dish ; con- tinue whipping the whole for a full half hour, and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take it from the fire, and whisk again till it is cold ; then add half a pound of fine sifted flour, stir it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper, sift sugar over, and bake them in a warm oven until of a deep yellow ; take them from the papers while warm ; bake them as soon as possible after they are dropt on paper. Biscuits, Sweetmeat.—Cat some Na- ples biscuits into pieces about an inch thick, and an inch and a half square, and just crisp them in the oven. Make some icing with whites of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; dip one side of the biscuit into it; cut some preserved lemon and orange-peel and angelica into small pieces; strew them over the biscuits, and dry the icing in the oven. Biscuit ivith Sweetmeats.*—Veepave your biscuit as d la Parisietine, bake it in a plain round mould, six inches dia- meter, and five or six high. When quite cold cut it across in slices three quarters of an inch thick; cover each slice with apricot marmalade, and re- place them according to their original form. Have ready the whites of three eggs whipped firm, and mixed with a quarter of a pound of fine powder sugar, mask the biscuit with tins, and strew crushed sugar on this ; put it in a slow oven to colour it. Serve it cold. You may strew over the icing, either pistachios cut in dice, currants mixed with sugar, and use any marmalade or jelly you may think proper. Biscuits {Si/ringc).—Jie&t a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moist- ening them with white of egg,and having grated the rinds of six lemons, mix them in two pounds and a half of powder* sugar with the almond-paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which sliould be flat, and a star cut out in the centre ; half fill your syringe with tlie paste, and press it through, on toa well-floured slab, cut in pieces aboutthreeInches in length.