CUS ( 211 ) CYD crust, and put It into a brisk oven; in an hour’s time cover the top, and then let it remain two hours longer. When done, mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and the top with a clear apple jelly. This custard rnay be garnished in various ways according to taste. , Custard Pudding.*— Mix a pint of cream with six eggs, well beaten, tvvo spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, grated, and salt and sugar to taste; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter ; tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half. Serve, with melted butter for sauce. Custard Pudding.— Boil a pint of thick cream, with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of sugar. When it is cold, put to it the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty tliick; but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the custard up in it very close, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When you take it up, put it into a basin to cool a little *, untie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butler and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. Custard (^Small) Sovfflees.*—Put two ounces of rice-flour and two of butler into a saucepan ; mix them together well, and add to them a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been infused; put this mix- ture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream pCitissiere. Then put to them the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whiles, beaten firm. Make the paste for the moulds the same as petits pates d la be- chamelle, and when half baked, pour in your preparation, and finish them. When done, they should not stand a minute before they are sent to table. These small custard soufflees may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingre- dient you may think proper to use. Custard la Suisse.* — Put nine glasses of milk and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it be- gins to boil, take it from the fire, and add to it from eighteen to twenty ounces of sifted flour, stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire; in about five minutes put it into another vessel; mix with it six ounces of butter, a pound of Gruyere cheese grated ; add afterwards, a spoonful of mignmelte, tvvo of powder-sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, and then put in four more eggs, six yolks, and half a pouna of Gruyere cheese, cut in dice, wnen the whole is thoroughly incorporated, il the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the chmjs^ add an egg or two, then whip six whitCT of eggs firm, and put it in with six spoonsful of Chantilly Pour this preparation, while hot, into a raised crust, at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half, in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. Custard, d la Turque.*—Put a pound and a half of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils, take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of sale. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst ; stir it a little, and when done, add to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chart- tilly cream; after .which mix in the twelve whites whipped firm. Prepare the crust in the usual way ; bake it in a moderate oven two hours and a half; when ready for table, brown it with a sdldm An (iGr» CUTLETS, Maintenon. — Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg ; dip them in a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter and a little mushroom catsup unixed with it. Cutlets en Surpt'ise.* — Take some pufl'-pastP, roll it out to a moderate tbitdvnrss, and cu t it in to pieces the form of small hearts, in the same manner as Mutton Cutlets en Papillotes, lay some apricot marmalade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them. Cut some common paste into bands so <as to resem- ble the mutton bones, bake, hut do not colour them. When the cutlets are done, dorez them; crush some mushrooms, which sprinkle over, instead of bread; make a skewer red hot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the grid- iron. Dish them, en conso»i7>ie, with the bones placed in proper order, and serve. CYDER.—Cyder is a fruit liquor pre-