( 44 BEE BEE Bean (ffrcen) Pudding. —BoU and bUnch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an pg:g. A little spinach .juice to colour it. Boil in a basin that will just hold it an hour; pour par- sley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Beans (fVhiteKidnctj)with Gravy.*— Boil and drain your beans ; make a light roMg?, and mix it with some gravy, salt, epper, and a little vinegar; throw the eans, into the sauce, and serve hot. BECCAFICOS.* -These birds are roasted, covered with bacon, and toast put under. Baste, while roasting, with lard, and serve witha sprinkling of lemon or verjuice. BECHAMELLE.* — Reduce some sauce tourrde over a good fire, moisten with chicken broth or consommi.. con- stantly stirring to prevent its catching; when of the proper consistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, continue stirring; pass it through a hair sieve, and serve. Bechamelee Cake.—Boil a pint of cream with a few pounded sweetalmonds and a little coriander seed, then strain it; use to it about a pound of flour, three eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste, finish like all other paste, and make into cakes, what shape or size you please. Bechamelle, Petits Pdtis of.*—RoW out some puff' paste, and line with it some small custard moulds, fill them up with paste, and bake in a hot oven; then roll out some more paste for the lids, and with a paste cutter, rather larger than your moulds, cut out an equal number of pieces, durez them, put a little lozenge on the top of each, and bake them. When these are done,take Ihecroustades, trim and dorez them lightly, and having dried them in the oven, fill them with bechamelle. Bechamelle Sauce.*—Put intoa stew- pan some veal and ham cut into dice, carrots, cloves, onions, laurel leaves, shalots, parsley, and scallions, all chop- ped small; pepper, grated nutmeg, a little salt and butter, a little velouU and consommi. Reduce it to half, and then put in some cream ; mix it well with your sauce. Boil all together over a quick fire, shaking it constantly, for an hour; if thick enough, strain it through a sieve. BEEF.*—Tosecurc prime beef or any other butchers’ meat of superior quality, for the lardei’, it is indispensable to deal with a reputable butcher, as he will neither purchase nor kill inferior stock. Certain economical caterers, however, will not confine themselves to any parti- cular tradesman. To such it is recom- mended to bear their wits about them to the shambles, for that shopkeeper that cannot secure a constant customer, ac- cording to the moral usages of a market is less regardful of his reputation, and there is a general feeling of exultation amongst the shopkeepers in a market- place, when one of these shamble- hunting providersgets himself outwitted. He must be cunning indeed who is a match for the market-folks. The vigilance of three senses is ne- cessary to these perambulating pur- veyors, the sight, the touch, and the smell ; although the skilful provider w\\\ depend alone upon the eye, as prime meat bears its sterling character on the surface. True well-fed beef may be known at once to the skilful eye, by the texture and colour; thelean will exhibit an open grain of a deep coral red, and the fat will appear of an healthy, oily smoothness, inclining to white rather than yellow. The suet firm and white. Yellow fat is generally a sutficient lest of inferior beef, though it is a common error to suppose the yellow tinge is a certain sign of the beast having been fed on oil-cake. Oxen fatted for slaughter on corn and turnips, will when killed frequently exhibit yel- low fat. Heifer-beef of prime quality is scarcely inferior to ox-beef: the texture of the lean, however, is of a closer grain, of a paler coral red, and the fat whiter than that of ox-beef. Cow-beef is also distinguished from that of the ox, by the same characteristics, only that in proportion to its greater age its texture will be still closer, the flesh more coarse to the sight, and harder to the touch. It has been a practice amongrst a many farmers to feed oxen and calves on oil cake, though by no means so prevalent now as at that period when, a few years ago, experimental agriculturists sought to improve nature, by crossing her in all her operation^, until he that had bred the most perfect monster obtained the greatest prize. That much new and use- htl light has been thrown upon the sub- jectof breeding and feeding.isgenerally acknowledged, to the credit of many scientific gentlemen, who have devoted their time and fortune to these pursuits; but the artificial means resorted to, to effect these ends, if pushed a little fur- ther, would have excluded wholesome beef and mutton from the larder. The best beef, and that which is sought by tlie most reputable butchers, is that of the Scotch cattle, which, at riving from