LEM LEM ( 310 ) to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix it well together, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfect- ly clear. Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of Jelly. —Pare as thin as possible six lemons, and a couple of Se- ville oranges, and steep them in a quart of hot water for four hours ; boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and skim it; add the liquor of the six lemons, and of the two oranges, to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons, stir the whole well, and run through a jelly-bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavour, and if necessary, add more sugar. It will keep well if properly corked. Lejionade and tVine,*—Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour on them a pint of boiling water, a pound of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy; let these stand half an hour, then strain it as usual. LEMON Bonbons. * — Take two pounds of the best lumpsugar, clarify and boil it to caramel; but just before it reaches that point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in it; in the meanwhile melt a little butter; skim, and pour it oflfclear; take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your hand over a copper- plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramel sugar; then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines in the sugar about an inch apart; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes; this operation should be performed as quickly as possible, lest the sugar should cool be- fore the whole is marked; when however all is done, pass the blade carefully be- tween tlie sugar and the slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, and wrap each in paper; keep them in a dry place. Lemon Brandy.—Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it stand for four and twenty hours, then strain it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water ; then skim, and let it stand till cold, when cold, mix it with the brandy. Lemon Butter with Sweetmeats. — Blanch and pound very fine an ounce of sweet almonds, put them to a quart of boiling cream, add the whites of three eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower water, and sweeten according to taste. Then take a lemon, grate the rind into some lemon-juice, iidd it to the cream and make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, and when well drained, beat it together, and lay it in a high dish, with sweetmeats or ratafia cakes allround. Lemon Cakes. — Quarter as many lemons as you think proper, they must have good rinds, and boil them in two or three waters, till they are tender, and have lost their bitterness; then skin them, and put them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just suffi- cient water to dissolve the sugar; boil it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and then by degrees put in the peel and pulps; stir them well before you set them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, and tlien put it into flat-bot- tomed glasses ; set them in a stove, and keep them in a continual and moderate heat, and turn them out upon glasses, as soon as they are candied. Lemon Cakes.—Choose the best colour- ed lemons, scrape out the blocks, and grate off all the peel; put the peel into a strainer; wet some sugar, boil it to candy height; then take it off, and put in the grated lemon-peel; set it on the fire again, and let itboil up, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and drop them on buttered plates or paper. Lemon Cake.—Take the whites of ten eggs, add three spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat them an hour with a whisk; then put in a pound of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon; when well mixed, add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs, beaten smooth; stir in three quarters of a pound of flour; then butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hoar. Lejion Cheesecakes.—Boil the peel of two large lemons till they are quite ten- der, and then pound it well in a mortar, with four or five ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, and a little curd beaten fine: pound and mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste in some patty-pans, fill them half full, and bake them carefully. Lejion Cheesecakes.—Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of butter together, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two, and life white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one lemon and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, pounded, three spoonsful of brandy; mix the whole well together, and put it to paste made with the following ingredi- ents: eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which must be mixed with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll in the re- mainder of the butter. . „ «- Lemon Chips, Grillage o/.—Pare off