C II o C II o ( 166 ) a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Chocolate Mock.— Take a pint of mi!k, boil it over a slow fire with some whole cinnamon, and sweeten it with Lisbon sugar, beat up the yolks of three eggs, throw all together into a chocolate pot, and mill it one wayoritwill turn. Serve it in chocolate cups. Chocolate Parfait Amour.* — For four bottlesof brandy, take one pound of the best chocolate, cut in small bits ; a little salt, two cloves, and a little cin- namon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, with two bottles and half a pint of water, with whites of eggs, and filter it through the paper. You must be careful not to take more than two bottles from every four, except from the cinnamon, from which you are to take as much as you can get. Chocolate Pastils.—Take a little chocolate, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon; when it is melted, take half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded in a mortar and sift- ed, which dissolve in a little clear water. When_ that is done, put in your choco- late ; if you find the paste too thick, add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with tittle round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a sixpence ; let them dry naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, take them off' from the paper, and put them in boxes. Chocolate Pastil Paste.—Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in amor- tar with a quarter-part of whites of eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and_ half a pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar,_ according as the paste is malle- able ; it must be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. Chocolate Petits Gdteaux Royaux.* — Grate three ounces of vanilla choco- latCj and mix it with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg; prepare and fiinish vour cakes as directed. See Almonds Petits Ga- teaux Royaux. These cakes may be flavoured with cedrat, lemon, Seville or sweet orange, by grating the rind of either of these fruits on sugar, which must be crushed and well dried before it is used. Chocolate Petits Paws.*—These are made in the same way as Petits Pains H la Duchesse (see that article), but with- out the dvrure. When cold fill them with a cream paffssfere, mixed with two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with sugar, flavoured with vanilla; then put three ounces of sifted sugar, the same of chocolate, and half the white of an egg into a pan ; stir these ingredients with a silver spoon until you have a smooth transparent glaze, with which mask the top and sides of the petits jtains, spreading it equally with the blade of a knife. Chocolate Projitrolles.*—Mixaquar- ter of a pound of grated chocolate in a glass of cre.&m patissiire', spread half of this carefully on a silver dish, and put it in the oven for half an hour, that it may burn to the dish; then mix in a pan two ounces of grated chocolate, the same of powder-sugar, and a sufficient quan- tity of white of egg to make a smooth glaze, with which glaze eight choux, rather larger than common; dry them a minute or two in the oven, and fill them with the remainder of the cream ; then take the largest, and place it in the centre of the dish of cream, and arrange the remaining seven round it, as close as you well can ; put it in the oven again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. Chocolate Puffs.—Take half a pound of chocolate grated, and a pound of double refined sugar, beat fine and sifted; with the whites of two eggs make a paste, and have ready some more sugar _ to strew on the tins; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven ; you may form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. Chocolate Puffs.—Beat and sift h.alf a pound of double-refined sugar, scrape into it an ounce of chocolate very fine, and mix them together. Beal the white of an egg to a high froth, and strew in the sugar and chocolate. Keep beating it till as stiff as a paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them on, the size of a six- pence, and bake them in a slow oven. Chocolate Souffle.—Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which cut as srnall as you c:m, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted, throw it into the souffle preparation. Chocolate Pelil Souffle of.*—Having grated a quarter of a pound of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes; in the meanwhile dilute six ounces of sifted sugar with the white of an egg; then add to it the chocolate; when the mixture is very firm add a little more white of egg. .and conclude your operation in the usual way. (See Petit Souffles.)