■JIB ( 265 ) G I M five or siK days take them out, and boil again, adding garlic, tarragon, and salt; put them into the jar, which must not be covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. Gherkins Pickled. * — Choose your gherkins as above, very green and straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them witli fine salt, then another layer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, and continue this operation until you have used nearly a bushel of gherkins, leave'them in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will draw all the water from them; at the end of that time drain and place them in a jar, with a handful of allspice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, six cloves of gar- lic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons of the best vinegar, pour it over the gher- kins, and let them stand till the next day, when boil the vinegar a second time, and pour it on again; the following day boil the vinegar for the third and last time, pour it over the gherkins, and when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet parchment. Gherkins Preserwetf fVet.—Let your gherkins be clear and free from all spots, put them into salt and water, let them stand two or three days, then take them out, and drain them well; put them in another pan of water, scald them, put them in a tub, and let them stand all night; then drain the water from tliem ; put them in a pan of water, and to every two quarts of water, put half a pint of syrup; put them in, and let them boil over a slow fire five minutes; put them in the tub again, and let them stand till next day; then boil them again, drain that syrup from them, and have a clean pan, with the syrup of a proper thick- ness; let it boil, put the gherkins into it, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour; then put them into a flat brown pan, and cover them; let them stand two days, then drain the syrup from them; boil the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next day boil them and the syrup together three or four minutes, and repeat the same lor five days ; then put them into pots, and cover them up. Gherkins,o/.—Cut the large ones into quarters, and let the small ones remain ivliole; soak them some time, to take the vinegar out, then warm tliem in a good strong cullis without boiling; serve them ns a ragoflt, to serve with whatever dish you think proper. GIBLET Pie.—Well scald and wash your giblets, put them to stew like mut- ton cuiltts, but longer, till they are very tender. You may either make a puIT- paste or short paste to bake them in; when you lay them in the dish, add the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pepper, salt, and the gravy of the giblets ; lorm a star of leaves on the top of the pie, egg it, and bake it. If you wish it to be par- ticularly good, reduce some consomme with a little Madeira wine, and pour it into the pie. The giblets proper to make the pie with, are the bead, neck, pinions, heart, gizzard, feet, and liver. GicLETPie.—Very nicely clean agoose or duck’s giblets; stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till nearly done ; let them grow cold ; tlien, if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak, at the bottom. Put the liquor of the giblets also into the dish, and bake it; when the pie is baked, pour iu a large tea-cupful of cream. You may add, if you please, sliced potatoes,and bake them with the pie. Giblet Soup.—Take three or four sets of goose or duck’s giblets; and stew them with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks ol mut- ton ; with three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pep- per, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must each be in four pieces) are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed wnth a dessert- spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few mi- nutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of siierry or Madeira, a large spoonful of catsup, and some cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Gibbets, Stewed-—Do them asdirected for giblet pie ; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving,give them one boil, with a cup of cream and a bit of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Giblets Stewed- —Well scald and clean them ; cut off the bill, divide the head, skin the feet, stew them with wa- ter (a sufficient quantity for sauce), a sprig of thyme, some whole black pepper, and an onion; let them slew till very tender; strain the sauce; add a little catsup, and flour, provided the sauce is not loo thick. Serve with sippets, toast- ed and laid round the dish. GIMBLETTES Printnnieres.* — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into very thin slips, and rub them with sugar and spinacli-juice to colour