TUR ( 477 ) TUR in hechamelle sauce, of mushrooms, truf- fles, cacks-coinhs, fat liver-', and artichoke bottoms; lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Tohkev Roasted-—It may be either stuffed with sausage meat, orstufliiig the same as for fillet of veal. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is con- stantly to that part, as it frequently hap- pens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to prevent its scorching, while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a beaten egg should be added to the stuf- fing of sausage meat. Tubkey a, la Rayale.—Make a mince with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truf- fles, put it into a Spain.-sh or brorvn sauce ; the turkey being roasted, dish it, add a little lemon-juice to the mince, which pour into the dish, and serve. Turkey to Souse.—Bone a good sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon ; put into a large saucepan two quarts of vine- gar, a qnartot water, and some salt, make it boil, and then put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder- vinegar, and garnish with fennel. Turkey to Stew. — Take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the turkey con- veniently, lay four skewers across at the bottom of the saucepan, and put in the turkey upon these ; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery, cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace ; let these stew as slowly as possible, till the gravy is more than half con- sumed : then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour ; when it is melted, put in a glass of Madeira or other white vvine ; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce, add a little .strong veal gravy, thickened with butter; when it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over; to which may be added, if you think proper, pickled mushrooms, or oysters. Turkey, Stuffed with Onions, and Pickled PorA" —^cald two dozen of small white onions, and boil them in stock, with half a poui d of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shalots, tfiyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, whole pepper, and salt; when done, drain them all, then stuff’ the turkey with them, and wrap the turkey in slices of b.acon, over which put paper, and roast it: make a sauce with a bit of butler, a slice of ham, two shalots, and a few mush- rooms ; soak these for a time, then add two spoonsful of stock, the same quantity of cuilis, let it simmer for about half an hour, skim and strain it; when ready, add a small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt; serve this sauce with the turkey. Turkey stuffed with Sausages a7id Chesnuts.—Roast what quantity of ches- nuts you think necessary, peel tiiem, and pound a part of them to make a. farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shalots, a little salt and pepper, a hit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs, put this farce into the crop, and stuff’ the body with the whole chesnuts, and small sausages, first fried in butter till about half done ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that, then roast it, and serve with a chesnut cuilis. Turkey stuffed with Truffles.—Peel about a pound, or a pound and a half of truffles, mi.Y with them a little salt, pep- per, and grated bacon, and stuff' your turkey with it ; sew it up close, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles, then roast it, well covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that; serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey S«rpme.* — Take a large turkey, prepare it for the spit, and roast it; when done, let it cool, raise the skin of the breast carefully, take off’all the meat from under it, and make a hole, which fill with a salpicon ; cover this with a quenelle farce ; give a good shape to the breast; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over the whole, and place it in the oven a short time to heat, and colour it. Serve with a reduced es~ pagnole, as a remove. Turkey, {Legs of) Broiled.— Braise some undressed legs of turkeys until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and broil them of a fine brown colour, serve with a I’emoulade sauce. Turkey Legs en Papiltotes.*—Fry tlie legs lightly in a little Imtter until both sides are coloured, then lard them quite through ; make some farce with a slice of veal, breast of fowl, streaked bacon, atid truffles, all minced small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices ; cut as many large rashers of bacon as you bave turkey legs, spread some of tbe/«rc(? over every rasher, roll a leg up in each, tie them that the farce may not escape; bread them thoroughly, atid wrap them in pieces of white paper", put them into a deep dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When dotic, take off the paper