494 V E N V EN many weeks, by laying tl)etn, before the frost sets in, on a stone floor, which will blanch, and make them very fine. Vegetable Sortp.— Peel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock, then add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as ossible, (but be careful that it is not urnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt; and let the whole stew gently for four hours, then strain it tbrntigh a coarse cloth; have ready, sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg, add them to the soup, and let them stew in it tmtil quite tender. Some like the addition of an anchovy, and a little ketchup. VELOUTE.*—Take the cuttings and remains of any joints of veal and fowl you may have in the house, of which take four pounds, and put into a large stew- pan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay-leaves, three cloves, and a ladleful of stock; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, and take care that the meat does not stick ; when suffi- ciently reduced, add as much stock as will nearly fill the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire to simmer for two hours ; after which strain it through a tammy. Make a white roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it again by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; take olTall the fat, strain it again, and then put it by for use. Take care that the veloutc is not in the least ciilour- ed. as, the whiter it is the better. The veloutc travailUe is done in the same manner as the espaqnole. VENISON. — The choice of venison should be regulated by the appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks thick, clear, anil close ; as it begins to change first towards the haunches, run a knife into that part; if tainted you will perceive a rank smell, and it will have a green or blackish ap- pearance. If you wish to preserve it, you may by careful management and watching, keep it forafortnight by the following method ; wash it well with milk and water very clean, and dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not the least damp remain- i.ng, then dust pounded ginger over every part; this is a good preventive against the fly. When to he dressed, wash it with a little hike-warm water, and dry it. Pepper should also he added to keep it. Veniso.x (i/mw/qP).—Either roaster fry it; put some gravy into a stewpan, with a little flour, red wine, currant-jel- ly, and a little lemon-juice ; boil these together ; put in the venison, let it heat, without boiling, and serve. Veniso.v in Co//o;j*. — Cut part of a haunch of venison into col lops, which beat with the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some thyme, rosemary, p!lr^ley, spinach, and other sweet herbs ; mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, cloves, nut- meg, and the yolks of eggs; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roa.st them ; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when the collops are nearly done, put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, vinegar, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladlcful of clarified butter, put in the collops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : lake of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each ; put into them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoon- ful of salt, the same of pepper, aiid of cloves also ; give the whole a boil, and then strain it. Venison Hashed.—Warm it in-its own gravy ; if there is no fat left, take some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and let it simmer till dry ; then add it to the hash. Venison Hashed.*—Take some anche- vies, boil them till they are dis.'olved, then add some oysters with their liquor, a little milk, some red wine, and a little ketchup ; put in your venison, let it warm in tiiis, but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried sippets, and the sauce &c. over if. ^’’enison rasitj, to be served Hot.— Bone a breast of venison, beat it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, and lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it seme drawn beef-gravy; lay the bones on the top, then put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, and let it simmer for three or four hours, then set it in a cold place till the following day; then lay a piifl-paste, tolerably thick, round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having first taken ofT the cake of fat from the top; if not sufficiently sea- soned, add more pepper, salt, and all- spice ; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, egg the licttoni p.iste, and lay on a thick top paste; trim and egg it, and let it bake ratlier more than an liour in a moderate oven ; reduce the remainder of the liquor with half a ivitrie of port wine till very strong, add a little cayenne, and pour this into the pasty jii.-t before serving.