FOW 250 F 0 W lard it like a fricandeau; braise it in broth, with a few slices of veal and bacon : when done, sift and skim the sauce, reduce it to a caramel, and glaze the fowl with it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Fowl Fried, d Vhulienne.—Slice some onions and fry them in lard till they be- come of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour ; when the onions are suf- ficiently done, take them out with the skimmer, and keep them hot. Have readjt a fowl cut up as for fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water. Put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried, till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper, and a little turmeric or Indian saffron; when the fowl is done enough, put in the fried onions; boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, send- ing up, separately, a dish of rice, a la Creole. Fowl with the Flavour of Game.— Take a rabbit that has been kept a long time, and cut the meat of it into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and season them with pepper and salt, chopped par- sley, chibbol, shalots, and a little sweet oil; split a fowl at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, stuff it with this, then sew it up, and give it its natural form; braize it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon ; soak it about a quarter of an hour ; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, sift and skim the sauce; add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. Fowl, Glazed.—This is brazed and glazed in the same way as Fwol en Fri- candeau, only with this difference, that it is done without stuffing. Serve with its own sauce, or any other, if you like it better. Fowl with Us own Gravy.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and par- sley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gently till they arc done; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. Fowl {Guinea and Pea).—They cat much the same as pheasants. They should be dressed in the same manner, except when larded; then, of course, they require no bacon to be laid over them. Fowl, Ciitit into pieces, and put it into some gravy with a little cream, catsup, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, a few oysters and their liquor, a hit of butter mixed with flour ; keep it stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, put in the hash and serve. Fowl as a Hedge-hog.—Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper and salt, ana stuff' a fowl with it; truss it the same as for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter; then lard it close with slices of ham and bits of truffle.s, to stick pretty far out; roast it, hasting often with good oil. Serve with consomme aud cullis sauce, and a little .iuice of lemon. Fowl {Hodge-podge o/).—Cut a fowl into quarters, and braize it with pickled pork ; make a good ragout with small onions, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braized pork ; intermix all w’ell on the dish, and serve with a thick cullis sauce. You may put to it any sort of meat you choose, taking care that the hardest kind is boiled proportionably. Fowl {Legs of) upon Ashes.—Garnish a stewpan with slices of veal, and a good slice of ham ; put the legs of fowls upon these, being first larded, through and through, with well seasoned lardons; add a tea-spnonlul of brandy, and cover the whole with slice.s of bacon, and over that, white paper; simmer both, under and over, they will furnish sufficient sauce, which must be properly sifted ; but if not a sufficient quantity, add a little cullis, and one squeeze of lemon. Fowl {Legs of). Garnished.—Braize four legs of fowls, with a dozen of small onions, broth, a few slices of bacon, a bundle of swxet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and bay-leaves; when it is half done, add .an eel, cut in pieces, six cray fish, half a glass of white wine, pepper and salt; let it braize slowly; when all is done, take the bottom of the braize, sift, and skim it very clean from fat; add a few spoonsful of cullis, (two or three), and reduce it to the consistence of a sauce; intermix the lowl and other things properly on the dish, with the onion.s, and a lew bits of fried bread; pour the 8,auce over all, with a lemon squeeze. Fowl {Legs of) an Prince.— Soak a few ,'inchovies and bits of fresh ham, cut as for larding, .and when you tliink they have lost their saltness, drain them; lard as many less of fowl as will make a good sized dish, marinade them some time, with a glass of white wine, a lemon cut into slices, pepper .and salt ; make a stuffing with butter, chopped parsley, shalots and capers; put each leg into a bit of puff-paste, together with the mari- nade, mixed with the stuffing; bake them in a slow oven ; and when done, take off