( 334 ) M I N M I L Milk Porridge {French).~^\^T Bome oatmenl and water togetlier, leave it to stand till it is clear, then pour off' the latter ; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till the following day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing; the pro- portion of water should be small. Milk, Potage of.*—Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar, and a bay leaf; add, as soon ns it boils, the yolks of three eggs, then take it offi and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk; soak your bread in the remainder, put it into the tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with the salamander. Milk Punch.* — Beat up two eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste ; boil it gently, stirring it all the. time till thick enough ; take it off the fire a very few minutes, then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. _ Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you possiUy can, grate them after with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, slopped close for four and twenty hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag until it is quite clear : bottle and cork it close im- mediately. Milk Punch fvr present Drinking.— To two quarts of water, put two quarts of French brandy, a dozen and half of lemons, three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar, and three pints of new milk; strain it frequently through a jelly-bag, till it is clear and fine ; it must be made two or three days before you use it, and may be bottled off. _Milk5okjb.—Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon, a couple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar ; put all into a etewpan to warm ; while heating, blanch halfa pound of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar; mix them by de- grees with some milk, and while heating, add to them the peel of a lemon, grated, and a little of the juice; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and mix it with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, and dry them before the fire ; let them soak a little in the milk ; lay them at the bottomoftheturecn,and pour in the soup. Milk Soup Lie.*—Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils, add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs, keep it on the fire, stirr- ing till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil); cut some very light bread into pieccF, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over and serve. Milk Smip au Safrari.*—Scald and drain some rice, put it into a quart of boiling milk, adding six grains of saffron in powder ; let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. Milk Vinegar.*—Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk; cork it well, and expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occasion- ally on account of the fermentation ; at the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar ; strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. Milk fVater.—Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica ; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them into a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk ; let your fire be quick till the still drops, then slacken if. you may driiw off two quarts; the first quart will keep all the year. MILLET — Wash three spoonsful of the seed ; put it into a dish, with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, add two ounces of butter, warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little ginger and nutmeg, grated; a« you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. hliLLET Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, and spread it at the bottom of a dish, then put in six ounces of millet, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; pour over it three pints of milk, and bake it. Mince P/e.— Weigh two pounds of scraped beef, free from skin and strings, of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds, then add six pounds of currants, nicely cleaned, and perfectly dried, three pounds of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of pimentos, in the finest powder; mix the whole well together, and put it into a pan, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. , , Have some citron, or.nnge, and lemon peel, ready; and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince P/e.,' u'ithout Meat. —Take a pound of currants, a pound of apples,