PIG PIG 406 young pigeons, as near of a size as possi- ble, and having peppered and trussed them properly, heat three quarters of a p jund of butler, to wliich add the juice of two or three lemons and a little salt; put the pigeons into this, give them a few turns, but be careful not to let the birds take the least colour ; in a few minutes take them out, and having completely lined a stewpan with bacon, lay the pigeons in it (the legs towards the centre of the pan), pour in the whole of the but- ter, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of consotimie, add a seasoned bouquet; cover them with slices of bacon, and a round of buttered paper; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen as soon as it boils, and put hot ashes at the top. When suffi- ciently done, drain them and put them into a silver dish over a ragofit d /a Tou- louse ; between each bird a blanched cock’s-comb, and a cray-fish, and on each a veal sweetbread. Pigeons d la Muntmorence.*—Having well cleaned the pigeons, fill them with any good farce you think proper, wrap each in bacon, place them in small moulds exactly their size, cover them very close, and put them in a moderate oven for three hours; then take them out of the moulds, pour some rich cmisomme over, and serve them very hot. Pigeons with Onions.—Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a Btewpan with plenty of butter ; set them on the fire, and keep stirring till they are done; when cold, mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pound- ed aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the mean time, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely with the above preparation, and then in veal caul, which fix together with white of egg; roll them in bread-crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and con- somme. Pigeons like Ortolans.*—Cover your pigeons with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, so completely that the feet can barely be seen ; give them a few turns in a sauce d atelets, and then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire ; a very short time is suffi- cient. Pigeons enPapillotes.*—Your pigeons being ready, cut off’ the feet, and truss them with the legs inw.ards, split them down the back, flatten and season them witli salt, pepper, and pounded aroma- tics ; put into a saucepan a good piece of butter, a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, four dessert spoonsful of oil, and the pigeons; set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the pigeons, and put to the butter three des- sert spoonsful of mushrooms, one of sha- lots, and one of parsley (all shred small) salt, and spices, give them a few turns, and pour the sauce over the birds ; have ready some square pieces of paper, oil them, and fold a half pigeon in each piece; about half an hour before dinner, boil them over a slow fiie. Serve with a clear gravy. Pigeons, luith Parmesan.—Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, chopped mushrooms,shalotsand parsley; mix them together, stulf the birds with it, and put them in a stewpan, with some slices of veal; cover them with bacon ; add a few spoonsful of broth ; set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done, take out the pigeons, and put in a jittle cullis; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table ; grate Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds, set the dish on hot ashes ; pour more sauce, grate cheese j over, and colour it with a salamander. Pigeons Pickled.—Bone them ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then turn them again, and tie ine neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water; let them boil a minute or two to plump: after this, take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white wine, and white wine vinegar, with white pepper j and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, | and a few bay-leaves. When it boils up, j put the pigeons into it. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them ; but if they are large they will require twenty minutes. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold, take off the fat, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, lied down closely, so that I the air may be excluded. _ : Instead of larding, put into it some [ stuffing, made of liard yolks of eggs and f marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet f lierbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeon Pie.—Chop some parsley and lemon-thyme, with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in their insides, and their , legs turned in ; stew them for a few minutes and turn them; when they be- gin to fry, put in sufficient consommi to cover them, in which let theni stew till they ate well done ; take them from the fire to cool; in the meantime make a