J UN 297 ) K E H one boil in some sugar, (liquidV, then re- move them from the fire, ana let them stand a quarter of an hour ; drain them well, and put them into some sifted su- gar, working them about, and taking care tliat all the leaves may imbibe an equal uanlity of sugar, and the form of the ower preserved, which may be done by shaking each, and blowing away the su- perfluous sugar; lay white paper on a sieve, and arrange the flowers on it one by one, dry them in a stove ; keep them in boxes in a dry place. These flowers may also he candied as above ; in which case, the moulds should have a sort of grating at the top for the flowers: place a weight on to keep them immersed in the sugar. JULIENNE.*—This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celeiy, lettuce, sorrel and chervil; the roots are cut in thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are halved and then sliced ; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small; toss up the roots in a little butter, when they are done, add the lettuces, &c. moisten them with broth, and boil the whole over a slew fire for an hour or more, if necessary ; prepare some bread in the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. JUMBLES.—Mix one pound of fine flour with one pound of fine powder su- gar, make them into a light paste with whites of eggs well beaten ; add half a pint of cream, half a pound of fresh but- ter, melted, and a pound of blanched al- monds, pounded ; knead them all toge- ther, thoroughly, with a little rose-water, and cut out the jumbles into whatever forms you think proper; and either bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, melt fresh butter with a spoonful of mountain, and strew fine sugar over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES, (Ices of),—In- fuse some juniper berries in warm water, or take about a handful of the berries, and boil them a moment with a pint of water, half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinnamon, and sift them through a sieve wiih expression, and finish the same as all others. Juniper, Ratafia of. — Infuse two ouncesof ripe juniper berries in two pints of brandy, adding half an ou?\ce of cin- namon, three cloves, a little aniseed and coriander seed ; add half a pound of sugar to each pint of brandy, having previously boiled it in a very little water. Let the whole infuse in a jar for six weeks, then strain, and bottle it. Juniper, Ratafia of.*— Take three ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- der, cinnamon, and cloves, of_ each eighteen grains; bruise all these ingre- dients, and infuse them, for a month, in three pints of brandy; then strain it, add three quarters of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together, pass the whole through a jelly- bag, and bottle it; keep it well corked. Juniper, (Ratafia of). — Take three pints of ratafia, put a quart of brandy into a jar, with a handful of juniper ber- ries, and one pound and a half of sugar, boiled in a quart of water, and well skimmed; stop the jar up close, and set it for about five weeks in a warm place ; then strain it through a filtering cloth, and, when it is quite clear, put it into bottles, taking care to cork them well. The ratafia will be all the better for keeping. JUNKET, Devonshire.—Warm some milk, and put it into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, with- out breaking the curd. K. KAVIA.*—Take the hard roes of se- veral sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; take away all the fibres as you would from a calf’s brains, then, with a whisk, beat the roes in the water, shak- ing off’ from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after which put them into fresh water again; and continue to whip them, and change the water, until the roes are perfectly cleans- ed and free from fibre; lay them ou sieves to drain, season them well with salt and pepper; wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, when serve them with fried bread, and shalots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time, put more salt to them. KERNELS, Creme of.*—Take half a pound of apricot kernels, cut them into small pieces, and infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water for a week; then distil it; dissolve three pounds of sugar in a pint of orange water, and three quarts of water; add this to the distilled liqueur', filter in the whole through a jelly bag, and hot- tl6 it* Kernel TVater (Rhalshourg).*—'IaVe: a pound of apricot, half a pound of peach, and cherry kernels, put them to soak in warm river water; the next day, peel, and put them to infuse in three quarts of orandy for nine daj's; then distil them 111 an alembic in the bain marie. Dissolve