W A L ( 500 ) W A L them ; let them be fresh gathered; peel and throw them into cola water; then boil them in some water, with a small quantity of alum, and the juice of a lemon to prevent their turning black. When they are enough done, put them again into cold water. Boil some clarified sugar to pelit lisse, and (having previ- ously drained) pour this syrup over the walnuts ; repeat this operation three succeeding days ; the last time, however, boil the sugar to /a nappe ; the following day draw the fruit well, and then put it carefully into bottles; add to the syrup two thirds more brandy, strain the liqueur, and pour it to the walnuts. Cork the bottles tightly. Walnut Ketchup.*—Thoroughly well bruise one liundred and twenty young walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of t-alr, and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fort- night ; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and set it aside ; put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night; then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor which is obtained from them to what was put aside the preced- ing day, and add to it one ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and live drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour ; then strain it off'from the apices, and bottle it for use. . Walnut Ketchup, for Fish Sauce.— Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies, and three quarters of a pint of red port, and let it boil till reduced to one-third; then str.nin it, and when cold, put it into small bottles, and keep them closely corked. Walnuts of Marchpane.*— Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work a little cinnamon, and bole arnieni- cum (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be but a very slight red tinge; when equally coloured, roll out the paste to the thick- ness of half an inch. Have ready two moulds of pear-tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which nut small pieces of the paste ; press them down with the finger that the marks may be con- veyed to the nastc ; cut oil’ all which comes above the edges of the mould, and then turn them out (the paste must be well sprinkled with flour, to prevent its sticking to the moulds) ; when you liave as many walnut shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards,on paper; leave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven lor a quarter of an hour; if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deep coloured. In the meantime boil some sugar to a syrup, with a little water; when the sweet- meats are done, wash the outer part of them with this syrup, by means ol a hair pencil ; replace them in the - oven a minute to dry ; then fill each shell with compote of appjes, raspberries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges w'ith gum, and stick them together. These imita- tive walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a long time in a dry place. Walnut Pickle. — Put a hundred of large double r/alnuts into a stone jar; take four ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, one ounce of cloves, a pint of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, and boil them in a.s much vinegar as is suflicient to cover the tvalnuts ; when cold, pour it over the walnuts ; in two days boil the pickle again, pour it to the walnuts immedi- ately, cover them close, and repeat this for three, days. Walnut Pickle.*—Lay your walnuts in water, and change it everyday lor the space of three weeks to extract all the bitterness from them ; make a pickle with spice, salt, and vinegar ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and pour over the walnuts. Walnuts, Preserved with Sugar.* — G.ather the walnuts when they have at- tained their full size, but before they become hard, they should be in that state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each walnut all over with a large pin, put them into cold water, and leave them for two hour.s; then pour that water away,and fill the pan with fresh; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing the water every twenty-four hours, to take out all the bitterness. At the end of the time change the water, and set them on the fire; as .«oon as they are soft, take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days, chang- ing the water as before every twenty- four hours. At the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glazed pan.Then take the common sugar; even the refuse of what has been clarified will be good enough; boil this with some water, and run the. syrup through a jelly bag ; wash the pan that it was Iwiled in well, then piit in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lissf; let it stand, and when about half cold, pour it over the walnuts, and leave them ; next day drain oH the