34 APR A PP at a short distance from the fire, until they are of a fine green ; then drain them in a cullender till they are cold. Put them into jars with some mace, and a clove 9r two of garlick, according to the quantity of the codlings, and cover them with distiUed vinegar; pour over mutton fat, and tie them down with a bladder and leather very tight. Apples, green Codlings, to preserve.— Gather the codlings when not bigger than French walnuts with the stalks and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of vine leaves into apreserving-pan,then a layer of codlings, then vine leaves, and then codlings and vineleaves alternately,until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring w.iter; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off'the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water again with the vineleaves, but takingcare that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack ; put in a little rock allum, and set them over a slow fire till they are green, when, take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup and give them a gentle boil three successive days ; then put them in small jars with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. Apples, golden Pippins, to presm-ve.— Take the rind of an orange and boil it very tender; lay it in cold water for three days; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them to a strong jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear; take the same quantity of pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a pint and a half of spring water; let it boil; skim it well and pu.t in your pippins, with the orange rind cut into long thin slips ; then let them boil fast till the sugar becomes thick and will almost candy; then pour in a pint and halfof pippinjelly, and boil itfasttillthe jelly is clear; then squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon ; give the whole another boil, and put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of orange, but then it must only be boiled, and not soaked. Apples, Pippins, preserved in slices.— When the pippins are prepared, but not cored, cut them into slices; take their equal weight of loaf sugar; put to the su- gar a sullicient quantity of water; let the sugar dissolve, skim it, and let it boil again very high ; then put the fiuit into the syrup when they are clear; lay them in shallow glasses in which they are to be served; then put into the syrup a candied orange peel cut into little slices very thin, and lay them about the pip- pin ; cover them with syrup and keep them about the pippin. APRICOTS {Bottled).’ — Press the quantity of ripe apricots you may require through a horse-hair sieve ; put the pulp into bottles, cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles up- right in a large saucepan, with hay be- tween to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is near boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, with- out touching each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. Apricots in brandy.*—Choose your apricots when quite ripe, let them be free from spots, rub them carefully with a linen cloth to take off the down. Weigh your fruit, and to each pound put a quar- ter of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it to the degree grand perli, then put in the apricots; boil them three or four times, takingcare to turn them fre- quently, that they may take the sugar in all parts. Take them off' the fire, and put them one by one into glass bottles ; the syrup being by this time nearly cold, pour the brandy (threerfei/iisefi'ers to each pound) into it by degrees, stirring con- stantly to mix it well with the syrup. When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into the bottles, the fruit at first will float; but when the brandy and sugar have soaked in they will sink to the bot- tom ; they are then fit to eat. Apricot Cakes.—Scald, peel,and take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots, beat them to a pulp, boil hall a pound of doulile-refined sugar with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring them gently all the time ; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn tliem once a day till dry. Apricot.s, Charlotte of.’ — Choose twenty-four fine plump, but not too ripe, apricots, pare and divide ihemintoeight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of ivarm butter I in the mean time line a mould as directed (see CharlotteI; pour in the anricots.and finish a.s usual. When turned on your dish, cover it light- ly with apricot marmalade, and serve it immediately. Apricot Chips.— Take apricota or peaches, pare them, and cut them very