PAR (377) PAR I slices, and toss them up in a good bit of I butter ; they are generally eaten with , salt fish. Pars.vip fFine.*—To every fourpounds of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water ; boil them till quite tender; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards ; pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gallon add three pounds of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of 1 crude tartar; when cooled to the tem- I perature of seventy-five degrees, put m I a little new yeast, let it stand four days i in a warm room, then turn it. The mix- : ture should, if possible, be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees; when the fermentation has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand at least twelve months before bottling. March and Sep- tember are the best seasons for making it. It only requires to be kept a few years to render it superior to all other made wines, in the same degree <is East India Madeira surpasses Cape. PARTRIDGES, in Choose. —Vfhen they are young the bill is of a dark colour, I and their legs are of a yellowish colour; I and when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part will look greenish when stale. The plumage on the breast of the hen is light, that on the cock is tinged with red. Partridges, d I’AUemande. — Take two partridges that have hung for some time, cut off all the meat, remove all the skin, nerves, &c., and pound the rest with half a pound of butter, some crumbs soaked in boiling cream, and two eggs ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the above into halls, about as big as marbles ; place them on a dish for table, pour over them a sauce, composed of the bones of the partridges, boiled in consomme, thickened with the yolks of six eggs, and strained. Set the dish in a bain marie till the balls swell, and are isufticiently done. Partridges, d VAnglaise.*—Make a farce with the livers of three partridges, a little butter, and some pepper, with which fill your birds, roast tliem about g three parts, then put them into a stew- pan ; raise each joint (but do not divide 9 them entirely from the body); put -be- tween every part a little butter, worked Bup with bread crumbs, shred shalots, parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and N nutmeg; dilute with a glass of Cham- Ipagne, and two spoonsful of consommi; stew them till quite done, squeeze over the juice of two Seville oranges, add a little of their peel grated, and serve them. Partridges, Boudins of.— Having made the boudins of quenelles of par- tridges, put them, with a little salt, into a well buttered stewpan, cover them with boiling water; poach, and then drain them ; when cold, dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them ; drain the boudins tho- roughly, and serve with an lialienne. _ These boudins may also be broiled, in which case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in bread-crumbs, then im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly. PARTRiDGES,2?roi7erf.*—Take five par- tridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice; a quarter of an hour before din- ner broil them. Serve them with a sauce d la Diable. Partridges wiV/i Cabbages.*—Take as many birds as you may require for a dish, and dress them as directed for pheasants, with cabbages. Partridges, with Red Cabbage.— Take two red cabbages, and cut them in fine shreds, which thoroughly wash, and put them to stew, with a good piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt; if they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, put in a small ladleful of stock, continuing to add this quantity of stock every time they appear dry, till done; then mix in two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and lay them neatlyon the dish, and then upon this lay three partridges well stewed. Partridges, d, la Cendre.*. — Truss as many partridges as you choose, as if for roasting; take an equal number of sheets of white paper, on each of which lay about twenty slices of truffles, and on them a partridge; fold over every one two mote sheets of paper, turning the edges up, so that the birds may be en- tirely excluded from the air. Bury them completely in hot ashes, and in a quar- ter of an hour turn and leave.them for the same space of time; then take them from the papers, and serve them wiih the truffles. Partridges, an Charbon.*—Take five young partridges, cut each in half, flat- ten and put in the claw, so as to resemble the bone of a chop; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper ; dip each in melted butter, and roll them in minced truffles; about a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve with a demi-glaze, in which is a little lemon-juice. Partridge, Chartreuse c/.*—Take a middling sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water; when cold, tie them up with two partridges, roperly trussed and larded ; cover the ottom of a stewpan with thin slices of 2 K3