EGG EGG 229 ) 1 a little sugar, orange-flower water, and green lemon-peel; let these boil for a quarter of an liour, and then set them to coot. Break seven eggs into another saucepan, and mix them with the water and other ingredients, and strain them into the table dish ; set the dish into the iain marie until the water is evaporated, and the eggs are rather firm. Eggs en Filai^raiione,*—Take a pint of white wine, half a pound of fine powder sugar, and make itintoaclear syrup with the white of an egg ; beat up well eight eggs, and pour them through a cullen- der into the syrup ; a very short time is suffioient to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. Eggs Fricasseed.—Boil your eggs pretty hard, slice them, then take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of hotter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, with toasted sippets. Eggs Fricasseed with Onions and Mush- rooms.—Boil yonr eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites in slips, and some onion and mushrooms, fry the onion and mushrooms; throw in the wiiites, turn tl)em about a little; if any fat, pour it ofl'; flour the onion, &c.; add to it a little good gravy, boil this up, add pepper and salt, and the yolks. EGo/'Vff<ers.*—Pounda dozen hard boil- ed eggs with a little cream, and a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter al- monds, a little sugar, and lemon-peel ; mix. these with the pounded eggs, and form them into fritters, dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon-peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle sugar over, and serve. Eggs Fried.*—M.ake three thin ome- lets, with three eggs in each, and season- ed with parsley, scallions, salt and pep- per; as you do them, lay them out, and roll them uptight, cut each in half, dip every piece into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs ; fry them, and serve with fried parsley. Eggs Fried in Balls.—Take a deep fryingpan, and three pints of clarified butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, stir it with a Slick till it runs round very uickly ; then break an egg into the mid- le, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the wriirlingof the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin, or dish; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour, and yet be soft,so you can make as many as you please; you may serve them with fried or roasted col lops. Egos Frothed.—Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites) with a spoon- ful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites (which were set aside) to a froth with sugar, and £ lace it over the fried eggs; bake it in a »utchoven,or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. Eggs and Gho-hins.*—Take some pickled gherkins, and having washed them in several waters, mince them very small, toss them up in a little butter, and then simmer them in a gravy or good stock. Pound the yolks of some hard boiled eggs with cream, salt and (pepper, mix them with the gherkins, and set the whole on the fire, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Eggs (.small) au Gras.* — Take two dozen eggs, and boil them till they are firm, but not hard ; take the yolks and pound them to a paste, with a little flour and some fowl gravy ; dip your hands in flour, take a piece of the paste and roll it in the shape of an egg, but no bigger than a filbert; when all your preparation is used, have ready some boiling water, in which is a little lemon-juice and salt, throw in the balls for a minute or two to harden, and use ham to garnish your dishes. Eggs au Gralin.—Mix together some bread-crumbs, butter a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shnlot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs; put this on a dish that will bear the fire, set it over a gentleone till ihegra/in adheres to it, then break eight eggs on it, season them with salt and pepper, keep it over the fire till sufficiently done; pass a salamander over, and serve. Eggs, Gratin of, with Cheese.^—Take some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, also grated, a small piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg and pepper ; mix these together, and spread them over the bottom of a dish, set it over a gentle lire to make a gratin, on which break ten eggs; sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the surface, finish cooking it, and brown it with the salamander. _ Egos with Gravy. —Poach some eggs in water, with a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round neatly ; lay the eggs in a dish ; pour into the disli some clear relishing gravy. Eggs nashed.-Bai] eggs hard, slice them. Iry an onion,sliced, in butter ; put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped pars- ley, pepper and salt. Serve them iiot. Egos d V Impcriale.—Take some breast