GAT 263 ) GEE yolks, one by one, working them up con- stantly; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour ; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of the milk of filberts ; mix these together, and then add the remainder of the flour and milk of fil- berts, and the leaven; these being thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and buttered like that for Gateau de Cotnpiegne. Whilst it is baking, blanch the remainder of the pistachios; divide each nut in half; dry them thoroughly in a napkin, and when the gateau, is taken from the mould, stick them cn the top and round the sides. Gateau de Pithiviers.*—Pound to a very smooth paste half a pound of fil- berts ; add to them six ounces of fine sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; these ingre- dients being well beaten together, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream. Then take some putt-paste, knead and roll it out perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two-thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size, to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the_ remaining paste ; roll it out, and cut a circular piece of seven inches diameter. _ Moisten the edges of the smallest piece lightly, and pour on it the above preparation; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece; press the paste together, that the preparation may not escape in baking. Flute the edge ; dorez the top, and trace on it any design you may thitik proper, with the point of a knife. Place it in a brisk oven, and when coloured, remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too high- ly coloured. When it has been bak- ing three quarters of an hour, take it out and glaze it. These gateemx may be varied according to taste, by introducing difl’erent articles, such as butter, al- monds, dry currants, musradel raisins, crispednrange-flower8,tS:c.,&c., in proper quantities, into the above preparation. Gateau de Pithiviers Anglo-Fran- fais.*—Take eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds, four of beef marrow shred very fine, two of powder sugar, two of bitter macaroons, two of dry currants, two of the best raisins, stoned, half an ounce of crispedorange-flowers,a grain of salt, the yolks of four eggs, half a glass of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg grated; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare the putt-paste as above directed^ (gateau de pithiviers), adding to this a narrow raised edge; pour in the preparation, which being rather liquid, would run out but for this precaution ; cover, and bake it in the usual manner. To this may also be added other ingredients to vary its flavour, Gateau Royal.*—Three pounds of flour, twelve dramchs of yeast,an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, six drachms Of vanilla, aglass of maraschino, three quar- ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put tliem into a basin with the maraschino and vanilla, pounded with the sugar and strained, cover the basin very closely, and set it aside. Make the leaven as be- fore directed {gateau de Compieigne), Then put three parts of the butter into a pan, melt the fouith part and add to it, beat them to a cream, and, at intervals of two minutes, put in two whole eirgs and two yolks, until all are used ; to this add the other ingredients, and finish the gateau in the same manner as gateau de Compiegne. G15ESE, to Choose.—Be careful in choosing a goose, that the bi'l and feet are yellow, as it will be young ; when old the feet and bill are red. When they are Iresh the feet are pliable; if stale they are dry and stiff'. Green geese are in season from May or June, till they are three months old ; they should be scalded. A stubble goose is good till it is five or six months old, and should be picked dry. Geese {Legs of) a la Remoulade.*— Take the legs of one or more geese, and dre.ss them d la braize', then dip them in!o the fat in which they were cooked, then bread them ; sprinkle them over with a little good oil, and broil them of a fine brown: serve dry, with a separate sauce d la remoulade, made in the follow- ing manner;—Mix a little mustard in a saucepan, with salt and pepper, also capers, atichovies, parsley, leeks, and a clove of garlic, chopped up together very fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. Gee.se {to Preserve).*—Take any num- ber of geese, and roast till they are about three parts done, being careful to pre- serve the fat that drops from them ; let them cool, and when cool cut each goose into fotir par's, taking off' the legs, and keeping the breasts and wings together ; place them very close, one upon tlie other, in an earthen pot, putting between each layer three or four bay-leaves and