( 116 ) CAP CAP let them boil; take them ofT, clean them well, and put them into the ragoClt you have prepared, set it over the lire to heat, but do not let it boil; take up the capon, let it drain, then lay it in a dish, pour the ragodt over, and serve it hot. C.4P0N u'itk Oysters and Chesnuts.— Boil twelve large cliesnuts till they are soft, then peel them and put them into claret wine warmed with tlie same num- ber of oysters parboiled; spit the capon, and put these into the inside of the capon, and stop them in with butter, roast it before a quick fire, baste it with fresh butter, and when it begins to drip, pre- serve the gravy ; then take half a pint of claret, put into it fifteen or twenty large chesnuts boiled, and the same number of oysters, a piece of butter, and some whole pepper; stew all these to- gether till half has stewed away; when your capon is roasted, put the gravy which you have saved into the sauce, bread the capon, place it on a dish, pour the sauce all over, and serve. Capon Pasty.—Roast a capon, let it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and slice it, but "keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four sweetbreads and half a pint of oys- ters, season them with salt, cloves, nut- meg, and mace, sweet marjoram, penny- royal, and thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs and pinions on the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions, then put in the flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a handful of chesnuts, boiled and blanched, then put butter over them, close up your pan and bake it; when done, add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated nutmeg; garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Turkey may be done in the same manner. Capon with Pease.—Boil a fat piece of beef with a capon, a piece of bacon, and a little salt; when the capon is almost boiled, take it out, and braise some pease and boil them in the broth ; then take up the beef, and put in the capon again; when all is sufhciently done, take up the pease, strain them, and put them intd a saucepan to boil by themselves; when done, dish the cApon, pour the strained pease over it and serve. Capon in Pilau.*—Truss a capon with the claws inside, and tie it up; put it into a atewpan wi th some good consommi, and cover it with a slice of bacon; when the capon is about three parts done, put in halt a pound of rice well washed; let it stand over the fire till the rice is per- fectly creed, then drain the capon, and dish it. Add to the rice some saSron in powder, and a good pimento; butter, and place it round the capon. Capon Pudding.~\ioast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small, then cut some pig’s feet very thin, put these into a saucepan, with a couple of roasted onions; then pound them in a mortar with sweet herbs and shred parsley, seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of two or thi'ee eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of twelve eggs in a quart of milk, boil it to a cream ; then mix all together, and just warm it over the fire; put these into skins the same as you do marrow pud- dings; blanch them in water and milk with slices of onions; when you use them, spread a sheet of paper over with lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire, and serve them. Capon au Riz.*—Draw and truss your capon, and cover it with slices of bacon; then wash thoroughly a quarter of a pound of rice; drain it and let it dry be- fore the fire, then put it into some iourV- Um, and let it stew, moistening it and stirring it from time to time; when it is done, keep it on warm ashes and soak some crust of bread in it; drain your capon which you have cooked, by itself, take eft' the slices of bacon, and serve it on a dish with the rice round it, and pour over the whole some clear veal gravy. C won with Rice.—Cover a capon with a thin layer of bacon, and put it in a sauce- pan with a pound of rice, half under the fowl, and half above it; fill up the sauce- pan with stock, and salt to your taste. Put the whole over a slow fire, with some charcoal on the lid of the saucepan. When the rice has absorbed the whole of the stock, serve it under the fowl. Capons, in general, are dressed the same as fowls. Capon, Soused.—Take a full-bodied capon, prepare it as for the spit, then lay it in soak four hours with a knuckle of veal well jointed; then boil them with a gallon of water, skim it well, put in five or six blades of mace, two or three races of sliced ginger, three fennel, and three parsley roots. When the capon is boiled, take it up and put to your soused broth a quart of white wine, boil it to a jelly, then put it into an earthen pan, and put your capon into it with three lemons sliced, then cover it close for use. When you serve it, garnish with barberries, slices of lemon, nutmeg, mace, and some of the jelly. Capon Roasted with Sweet Herbs.-^ When you have drawn the capon, put