F I L F I L 238 blanch them ; when half cold, throw them iiuo cold water, and then diain them. Boil some clarified sugar to put in the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered close ; then take tliem from the fire, skim tliem well, and having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain oft'the syrup (with- out removing the fruit), boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on tliera when no more than lukevvarm ; on the ensuing day, having drained ofl’ the Byrup, boil it to grand perle; then add the figs, cover the presei ving-pan close, boil them tip once, shim it well, and put it into pots, &c. (or use. FiGs(6Vee«) lo Preserve.—Slit some small green figs on the top, and put them into water for ten days, and pro- ceed thus:—Put as much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg; then let it settle, take oli' the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs; keep them in water for ten days, tlien put them into fresh water ; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them ; drain them and put them in to other fresh water, ehifting them everyday for four days; again drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leave them to stand till the next day; warm them again, and when they are become green, give tliem a good boil; then boil some sugar to blow, put it to them, and give them another boil ; the next day, drain and dry them. Figs (Ripe) to Preserve.—Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in the tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; then boil some more sugar souffle, put it to the figs, and give them another boil; the next day drain and dry them. FILBERT Biscuits. — Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mortar to break their shells ; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mi;t whites of eggs with them; take care they do not oil; mix three pounds of powdered- sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs, to a proper thickness; let your oven be of a moderate heat, then with the spad- dle and knife, drop small pieces, about half as big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of paper under them, let them bake of a fine brown, and all alike; nnd let them be cold before you take them oil'the paper. FiLBErtT Biscuits.* — Take half a pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter al- monds, the whites of six, and the yolks of tlu-ee eggs, an ounce of Hour, and lialf a pound of sugar ; blanch and pound the filberts and almonds, adding, occasion- ally, a little white of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix the latter with half the sugar: beat them well, and ;hav- ing mixed the other ingredients to- gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating, sift them into the whites; when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour the preparation into paper cases, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. A little grated lemon- peel, or any other aromatic ingredient added to the yolks, greatly improves these biscuits. Filbert, Blancmange.* — Blanch a pound of filberts, and lay half of them in cold water for two hours; put the other half pound into a pan over a mode- rate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon, till they are of a cle.ar yel- low, when remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasionally a little water to pre- vent their oiling. IVhen well pounded, take them from the mortar, and pst them into a pan, with two glasses and a half of water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk; to which put an ounce of sugar; as soon as the latter is dissolved press it a second time through a napkin, and add to it half an ounce of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner with the filberts which have been in the water, by which means you will have one part of your blancmange perfectly white, and the othera clear light yellow. Finish your blancmange in the usul way. Filberts (burnt) JVhite.—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them ; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put your filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, break those which stick together, and then have another pan with syrup boiled the same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. Filberts, Cannellons of.*—Burn and pound six ounces of filberts, moistening them with white of egg; when «ell pounded, add a qtiartcrol a pound of fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannellons h\iouI four inches in length; make the friture qtiite hot. dip nellons in batter, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take pariicul.vr care to keep the cannellons perfectiv strait. Filberts (Conserve of.)—L pon half a