G U R ( 277 ) GUM Gbeen-oaoes, Presetted fVet.—\om' gieen-gages slioiild be perlectly sound, prick ibein seven times or more about the stalks; put them into cold water, otlierwise they will turn black; scald them, and have another preserving pan with boiling syrup ; strain the ivater Irom the gi'een-gages, and put them into a deep earthen pan ; place them regularly, and pour the boiling syrup over them ; then let them stand till the next day, then drain all the syrup from them ; boil it again, and put it over them : repeat so for seven or eight days, then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup from them, place the green-gages in this pan ; boil some fresh syrup for half an hour, and pour it over them, cover them up until they are wanted for use; or you may put them into pots. Gbeen SflMce,—Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine,and some scalded gooseberries ; add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. GROUSE Roasted. — Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing. They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild-fowl may be used instead of common gravy. GRUEL.—Wash two ounces of fresh grits in warm water several times, and boil it in a quart of water, till the liquid is reduced to about a pint; then strain it through a cloth, and add a spoonful of white wine, and a little sugar; boil it a moment before using. Gruel {Water).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two spoonsful of water, and put it into a pint of water boiling on the tire: stir it well, and boil it quick ; taking care that it does not boil over; in a quarter of an hour strain it oil'; .md if you choose, add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Another way.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees, into one pint of water, and when it is stirred quite smooth, boil it. GUDGEONS to choose.—Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish ; they are caught in running streams, and come in about Midsummer, and re- main in season five or six months; you may dress them in the same manner as .smelts. Gudgeons.*—This fish is most com- monly fried; scale, empty, and wipe them clean, without washing them. Hour them, and put them into a good boiling friture of lard or butter. Gudgeons au Conrt-houillon.*—Emp- ty, and wash your fish, then boil them in a court-louillon.! of equal quantities of wine, and maigre broth: add salt, pep- per, and a few artichoke bottoms ; when done, reduce the liquor, and serve them hot. Gudgeons Stewed.*—Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean, without washing them ; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mush- rooms, a couple of shalots, thyme, a bay- leaf, and basil, all cut fine ; add salt and pepper; place the gudgeons on this, sea- soning them over and under, and moist- ening the whole with a glass of red wine ; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire, till the sauce is almost consumed ; they will not require more than a quarter of an hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner, but they must neither be scaled or emptied, but only wiped elean. GUM Paste.—Put a pound of gum- dragon in a basin, with warm water enough to cover one inch above the gum; set this in a warm closet for four and twenty hours; have a new tammy ready laid over a dish; spread it on it, and squeeze through as much as you can at first; then open the tammy, spread the gum out again, and then squeeze it; re- peat this till the whole is through ; then lay it on the slab, v/ork it well with your hand, put in nearly all the juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best double refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as you work it; but before you have put in the whole of the sugar, begin to add some of the best starch powder; blend them thoroughly together, till the paste begins to take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, and let it stand in a damp place for a week or ten days, (it is the better for keeping), work it with powder, and it will cut and mould lo any shape you please, and when you want it to harden, set it in a dry place ; if you wish to colour it, to make it red, use cochineal or car- mine ; for blue or violet colour, use in- digo; for yellow, saflion; for green, tlie juice of beet-leaves, scalded over the fke thick part mix with the paste. When you put in colours, be careful to blend them well, and be particular that the colour is good. GURNETS fo Broil.—Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter, with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as follows; put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek, into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with vinegar and water; add a couple of an- B B