B I S C6 B I S long, set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to turn brown, take them out, and lay them on paper, in a dry place. Biscuits, Role dc Chamlre. — Boil some sugar over a brisk charcoal fire to caramel, into this throw blanclied sweet almonds, stir them with a wooden spoon till covered with sugar, then lay them on a sieve to dry ; take care to separate those which stick together. Make an icing with sugar, whites of eggs, and a little orange-flower water; put the al- monds into this, cover them well with it, and place them on sheets of paper; do not let them touch ; put them into a moderate oven. Let them be cold before you remove them from the paper. Biscuits (Savot/).*—Whip twelve whites of eggs to a snow ; beat the yolks with a pound and a quarter of powder- sugar, mix them together, with three quarters of a pound of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste, rub your mould with melted butter, and bake it. Biscuits (Savoy), Cold.*—Takealittle more than half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen eggs; rasp the peel of two lemons or oranges on the sugar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and work them together with two new wooden spoons. Whip the whites in a separate vessel, (with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning), when very firm, take half to mix with the yolks, then mix the whole, and sift the flour over: mix all together gently v/ith a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in. a little at a time, to prevent the bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven. One hour is suflicient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw crushed sugar over before baking. Biscuits (Savoy), with Filberts.*— Blanch, wash, and dry your filberts, and then burn or roast them till of a fine yel- low tinge. When cold, pound and mix them the same as the almonds. Finish the biscuits as before-men- tioned. Smaller Savoy biscuits are made in a similar manner. If you should not be able to procure potatoe-flour, wheat-flour may be used, taking care to dry it perfectly; a larger quantity of the latter will then be requi- site ; two pounds and a quarter will be equal to one and three quarters of the potatoe-flour. Biscuits (-Sfluoy), //of.—Break a dozen etrgs into a vessel over another contain- ing water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with a pound of fine sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft, put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a j silk sieve; mix the flour well with the i eggs, by shaking the sieve, then add two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in year paste; sprinkle mere sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Biscuits (Savoy), Large.* — Take i fifty-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the i zeales of four oranges, a pound and three- quarters of potatoe-flour sifted ; and make your biscuit as follows : grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as it becomes coloured, scrape it off', and grate again until all the zeste is done, then dry the sugar perfectly, crush and sift it. Break your eggs one by one, (taking care that all are perfectly fresh); put the yolks and whites into separate ves- sels; mix half your sugar with the for- mer, stirring it in with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then add the remain- der, and work it well for twenty minutes. VVhip the whites till quite firm, putting in a small quantity of pounded alum; when sufficiently whipped, which may be known by little points rising when the | whisk is taken out; mix a little with the i yolks ; still, however, keeping the whites | stirring; then pour the yolks on them I very gently, mixing them together as j you pour, with the whisk: sift over the \ whole a pound of potatoe-flour, stirring the mixture all the time; when ready to put into the mould, your paste should be very smooth, and somewhat of the consistence of treacle. Butter the mould, and put in a few spoonsful of your paste at firstj to prevent any globules of air appearing on the top when baked ; pour in the remainder carefully. Cover a baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould in the midst of them, and place it in a moderate oven ; keep it open for an hour, that the biscuit may be watched, and if it takes colour too quickly, cover it with paper. In three hours time take it from the oven, and if it be of a good colour,and firm, turn it on a baking-tin. tie round it a band of double paper, and replace it in the oven for a quarter of an hour to dry. Inin, with Almonds.* — The ingre- dients for this biscuit are the same as above, with the addition of four eggs, and half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way. to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and