( ICO ) C II I c n I six epga wpII beaten ; when the cliickens are done, take (mt tlie parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. Chickens, (Sot/ffle of).— Mince the vhite part of cold roasted chickens, pound it in a mortar, with some bdeha- melle, butter, pepper, salt, and the wlks of four eggs; when well beat, strain it through a tammy; then beat the whites of five eggs to a solid froth, mix it with the former, and put the whole into a deep dish, or raised pie-crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Chicken Slewed.—Cut a carp with a fine roe into pieces, cut a chicken also into pieces, and put them into a stewpan together, with a slice of ham, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, thyme, bay leaf, basil, two cloves, a small piece of butter. When these have simmered together a little while, add some stock, a glass of wine, a little cullis, flour, pep- per and salt, boil them until the chicken 18 done, then take out the carp, (leaving the roe), the ham and parsley, and put in their place a chopped anchovy, and a few capers. Place the chicken on a dish mixed with the onions and roe. Take the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the whole. Chickens Stuffed. — Boil a pint of milk with a handful of bread crumbs, until very thick ; when cold, bent it up in a mortar, with chopped parsley, and onions, thyme, a bay-leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt, stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens between rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce; a hit of buttern-olled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, salt and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. Chickens and Tarragon.*—Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained, chop th^m very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, drawn and trussed, with it, put them into a stewpan with some but- ter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast them. In the mean- time put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a glass of meat gravy, two S|)oonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do noc boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve this sauce over the chickens. Chickens A la Tartare. * —Having prepared your chicken, parboil, and cut ft in half; break the bones, and soak it in melted fresh butter, with pai-slcy, scallions, mushrooms, and garlic, cut up small, pepper, and salt. Dip it again in butter, bread it, and broil on a clear fire. It may be served either dry, or with any clear sauce you think proper. Second way.*—Split and break, and take out the bones of two young chickens, press them into a round form, season, and wash them over with yolk of egg; cover them with bread crumb.*, flatten them a little, and broil over a clear fire. Serve them with sauce Italieniie A la Tartare, or veal gravy. Chickens {Mince) in Tw/irt/e.—^fake a baiter with two spoonsful of flour, some grated nutmeg, four eggs stirred in, one at a time, and some new milk ; it must not be too thin ; fry it as for pancakes, but lay it very thin in the pan, and colour it on one side only ; cut each (except two or three) in half; lay a whole one at the bottom of a buttered mould, and the others round the sides; nearly fill up the mould with a thick mince of chicken, turn the ends of the pancakes over it, and lay another whole one at the top. Bake it in a moderate oven, and when done, turn it on a dish, and serve with good gravy. Chickens and Tomata Sauce.*—Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chickens; tie it in, and lay thin, slices of lemon on the breast of the chick- ens, and lay them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for three quarters of an hour; when done, drain them in a cloth; untie them, and serve with tomata sauce. Chickens and Tongues.—Boil half a dozen young chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs’ tongues, peeled. Place the cauliflower in the centre of a dish, the chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots out- ward; lay the spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. Chicken and Truffles.* — Wash and pare some truffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and half a pound of grated bacon. Fill a chicken ivith tl'.is mixture, and truss it so that none of the stuffing can escape; tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. Chickens a la Turque.— Boil .«ome rice in good consomme, until properly