A DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, CONFECTIONERY, 6^'c. 8^c. A ACID Sauce.—Pound the yolks of three hard eggs, one anchovy, with a pinch of salt and spices, half a glass of vinegar, and butter rolled in flour ; add a little veal gravy (or onions), and thicken it like while sauce. ADMIRAL’S Sfmce.—Chop an an- chovy, seven or eight green rocamboles, simmer them on the fire vvilh a little cojisommtl, salt,pepper, nutmeg,and but- ter rolled in flour. When ready, add a little lemon-juice, or a spoonful of ver- juice. almond Biscuits.*—Blanch and pound a qi arter of a pound of sweet almonds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine sugar; then beat them up for a quarter of an hour with an ounce of flour, the volks of three eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding afterwards the whites of four eggs whipt to a froth : have ready some paper moulds made like boxes, about the length of two fingers square ; butter them within, and put in the biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities of flour and powdered sugar; bake in a cool oven, and when the bis- cuits are done of a good colour, take them out of the papers. Bitter almond bis- cuits are made in the same manner, with this difierence, that to two ounces of bit ter almonds must be added one ounce of sweet almonds. A^.^JOlsn JJiscuifs.*—Take eight ounces of sweet, and ns many bitter almonds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, two ounces of flour, and two pounds of powder sugar, pour boiling wateron your almonds, and almost immediately after turn that away and pour cold water on them; rub oil'the skins one by one willi SI napkin, then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them with the whites of two eggs. Beat the fifteen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks with half the quantity of the sugar, and then mix them with the almond paste; put the remainder of the sugar into a basin; sift some flour over it; stir the mixture till all the ingredients are tho- roughly incorporated, and pour jt into small paper cases, glaze them with the sugar and flour sifted over them. Bake them in a pretty warm oven. Auiond Biscuits {small).*—Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten minutes, with four ouncesof powder-sugar and one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded ; then add awhole egg, and beat it up five minutes longer. Whip the whites to a strong froth ; mix them and an ounce and half of fine sifted flour with the yolks work this paste well, and then pour it into small well-buttered copper moulds melon-shaped; glaze them ; sprinkle them with powder sugar, and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Almond Biscuits {soufflis).*—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into dice and dry them in the oven. Make a glaze with the whites of two new-laid eggs; mix the almonds and a pindi of crisped orange flowers into this, and put it into very small paper cases ; do not fill them above half full, as they rise consi- derably in the oven, and would other- wise fall over and spoil their appearance ; bake them in a moderately heated oven. As soon as they are pretty firm, they are done. Almonds (blown).—Scald a few al- monds, and pound them to about half as fine as for biscuits, heat them with lemon juice, whiles of eggs and powder-sugar ; drop them on paper, about the size of almonds, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. A hMonns (blown) a, la Roi/rt/e.*—Choose four onnees of small thick almonds, and put them into an oven until they are slightly coloured. Whilst they are cool-