413) PLU PLU }i without drawing, and served on a toast. (; Grey plovers should be stewed.—Make ( a forcemeat with the yolks of two hard ; eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, arli- i choke bottoms cut small, and sweet fl herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and d nutmeg: stuff the birds, and put them j into a saucepan, with just a sufiicient j quantity of good gravy to cover them, 1 one glass of white wine, 'and a blade of mace; cover them close, and let them ! stew very gently till they are tender; I then take up the plovers, lay them in a i dish, keep them hot; put a piece of but- ' ter rolled in flour, to thicken the sauce, : let it boil till smooth ; squeeze into it a ;; little lemon; skim it, and pour it over h the plovers. |i ■ Plovers au Gratin.* — Pick, clean, ^ and singe four plovers ; make a farce |i with their intestines, (except the giz- II zard), minced, and mixed with half the .1 quantity of grated bacon, a little shred || parsley and shalots, salt and pepper, fill the plovers with this; lay a gratin (see r that article) on your dish to about the ii thickness of an inch, place the plovers on . it, and fill the spaces betvveen them with I the same ; raise the gratin round, but II take care not to cover the breast with it; ;i lay slices of bacon over the whole, and : set it over a moderate fire, with rather a [ brisk one at the top ; when done, drain 1 off all the fat, and serve them with an 1 Italienne. Plovers d la Perigueux.*—Put four plovers into a stewpan, with a dozen i' whole truffles, (skinned), a bouquet^ some Ii basil, salt and pepper; give tliem a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass of champagne, and six ladiesful of il reduced espagnole \ skim it well, and when done, take out the birds and truffles, place them on a dish, the truffles n at the top; reditce the sauce, add the I juice of a lemon, and serve it. Plovers Rousted.*—Makea/«rcewith I the intestines of four plovers, as directed I for plovers au grating stuff the birds j with this farce, sew it in, and fasten I them on skewers; cover them with slices I of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix ' the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done, unfasten and dish them. Serve with a ragoQt of truflles I poured over them. Plover’s Eggs—Boil them ten ml- I nules, and serve them on a napkin either I hot or cold. PLUMS, in Brandy.*—Take twelve ( pounds of fine magnum honum plums, i and three pounds of sugar ; the fruit il should be turned in colour, but not ripe; : prick, and put them into a saucepan t with cold water, set them on the fire ; when the water boils and the plums rise, take them out carefully with a skimmer and put them into a pan of cold waterj clarify and boil the sugar to petit lisse, put the plums to it, and give them a boil; the two succeeding days, dram on and boil the syrup, first alone, and after- wards with the fruit; the third day drain the jdums, and put them into bottles ; then boil the syrup to la nappe, and when cold, add to it three-fourths of its quantity of tlie best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles tight. Green- gage plums are done like apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) Plums Candied.—Choose your fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder-sugar over, and put them into a moderate _ oven, tightly closed ; in half an hour’s time, take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. Plums, Clear Cakes of.—Fill ajar with the white pear plums, set it in a sauce- pan of boiling water on the fire j when sufficiently done, let the clear juice, run from it, and to every pint of it, add an equal quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling ; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. Plum Cream.—This is made in the same manner as peach-cream, and made with the magnum honum; the other kinds will do, but the first-mentioned is best. Plums Fromage, Bavarois.* — Take the stones from an hundred small, or thirty-six large plums, make a marma- lade of them With half a pound of clari- fied sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, mix the isinglass in, and proceed as usual. (See Fromage Bavarois.) Plums with Almonds, Gimhlettes of.*— These are made in the same manner as other gimhlettes; Peach Gim- hlettes), only that plum-marmalade and sweet almonds, blanched, are used in- stead of peach-marmalade and pistachios. Plums in Jolly.—When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, drain and strain the syrup through a jelly-bag. Take some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them ; set them on tlie (ire, and when quite soft, press out the juice and str.ain it, and for every pint of juice, boil a pound of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup, and plums, and boil all to- gether. Take it ofl', and when it has 2 N 3 .