I C A K ( !)7 ) c A K tlie flour, currants and sugar, what nut- megs, cloves and mace are. liked; stir these to the cream : put in tlie yeast. Cake {u ve>y fine rich Pluoi).—lake four pounds of the finest flour well dried and sifted, six pounds of the best fresh butter, seven pounds of currants well washed, picked and rubbed very clean and dry; two pounds of Jordan al- monds, blanched and beat in a marble mortar, with sack and orange flower- water, till they are very fine ; take four pounds of eggs, leave out half the whites, and add three pounds of double refined- sugar, beat and sifted through a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves and cinnamon, of each a quarter of an ounce; three large nutmegs beat fine, a little ginger : of sack and brandy half a pint each, sweetmeats to your liking, lemon and citron; take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your in- gredients go in, minding to beat it all one way, or it will turn to oil; put in the sugar, beat it well, and work in your almonds; let your eggs be well beat, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick ; put in the brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees ; when your oven is ready, put in the currants and sweetmeats, and put it into your hoop; it will take four hours baking in a quick oven. Note.—As you mix it for the oven, you must be mindful to keep beating it all the time with your hand ; and your currants, as soon as cleaned, must be put in a dish before the fire, that they may be warm when mixed. The above quantity bakes best in two hoops. Cake (a Common Plum mie). — Take three pounds of flour, a little ale yeast, a pint of milk, a pound of sugar, a pound of butter, and a little allspice; make it into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as yon please. Cake {Phan a la Campagne).*—Take four pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put into it one ounce of fine salt, two pounds of butter, six eggs, and three glasses of water, beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt, and the water; then mix the flour with the butter, then mix up your paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rolling pin, the same as in making puff paste; after this work- ing up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inclies thick; then surround the cake with a band ofstout paper, and to prevent the paste from extending, place over the first band of paper several smaller ones, welted with the yolk of egg beaten up; Place these bands of paper lialf upon the cake and half on the pan. Your cake being thus prepared, gild it, and with tli e point of a knife, describe upon it all sorts of figures according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. Cake (Plum d la Vanille)*—Take a pint and a half of flour; make a bole in the middle, put in it six drachms of sugar grated very fine, three drachms of white salt, the yolks of three eggs, a pound of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for plum cake d la Campagne; spread your paste out very thin; sprinkle, it with a piece ofvanille grated very fine, then form your cake, and proceed the same as for plum cake d la Campagne. This cake must not be eaten until it is quite cold. You may make in the same manner as the preceding, plum cakes with citron grated and put into bags, and sprinkled over the paste, also chocolate, cofl'ee, &c. Cakes d la Polonaise.*—Take some puff paste, and form it into a crust, one quarter of an inch thick; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each, and press them together; have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes; then put them in the oven ; when they are three parts done, take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking; when done, take out the moulds, and fill them with whatever sweetmeat you think proper. Cakes d laPortugaise.*—Blanch and pound half a pound of almonds; mix wjth them the juice of three oranges with their peel very finely chopped up ; put this preparation into a pan, and add to it some powdered sugar, two ounces of very fine flour, and the yolks of six eggs, beat up the whites, and mix them also with the other ingredients ; then take a long mould, or paper case, butter It, and put in your preparation; let it bake in a_ moderate oven ; when done, cut them into small squares or lozenges ; glaze them, and put them in a stove to dry. Cake {Portuguese.)*—Made the same as pound cake, only add a pound of clari- fied butter, almonds, currants, &c. Cakes {Portugal).—Two pounds of flour, the same of butter,sugar, and cur- rants, nine yolks of eggs, four whites ; mix these with a little brandy; butter the pans, and bake them in a pretty hot oven. Cake {Potaid).—To a pound of sifted sugar, add a poutid of fresh butter, and K