N 0 U NEC (352 sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, small onh'iis, &c. Neat’s Tongue Roasted. — Scald a tongue, parboil it in broth or water, with salt and pepper, two onions, carrots, arsnips, a faggot, two cloves, garlic, a ay-leaf, and thyme; when boiled enough to peel, take it out, lard it as a.fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Seive under it a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. Neat’s Tongue Roasted, d la Fran- gaise.—Boil a neat’s tongue, and blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat, mince it with two or three hard eggs, an apple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred very fine; stuff the tongue with this forcemeat; then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it; serve with a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced lemon-peel and bar- berries. Neat’s Tongue, with Truffles.—-'BoW. a pickled neat’s tongue two hours ; take off the skin, let it remain till cool; then cut a large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, with some green truffles pounded in it, sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and cover it with paste made with beef-marrow, instead of butter ; after- wards wash the_ paste over with white of egg,_ ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie, with the remaining part of the paste, then bake it till tender, in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under, or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. It maybe eaten with chickens, tuiKey, or roast veal. NECTARINES (CoMserye of).— Peel ripe nectarines, slice, and boil them to a marmalade, willi a drop of water; reduce it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quarter of a pound of the marmalade to a pound of sugar, d la grande plume, (ninth de- gree,) and work it well together, when it begins to cool, and finish as all others. Nectauine lee.—Use either marma- lade or jelly, (which is made the same as peach or apricot jelly), or, if when necta- rines are in season, cut seven or eight of them when quite ripe, bruise them, boil them in a_ pint of water ; then sift them ; put a sufficient miantity of sugar to the sifted juice; and finish the same as all others. Nectarines to Keep.*—This fruit is bottled in a similar manner to apricots; the nectarines should he gathered per- fectly ripe, and the skin taken off with great care. Nectarines to Preserve.— Split the nectarines, and take out the atones, then put tliem into clarified sugar; boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, take ofl' all the scum, cover them with a paper, and set them by; the fol- lowing day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them agood boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove; the next day dram them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, then put them into the stove again. Nectarines (Liquid Sweetineat of). —The nectarines should be almost ripe ; peel and cut them in halves, simmer them in boiling water till they rise on the surface, and then drain them ; twil them in clarified sugar till there is no longer any scum rises, and leave them therein till the next day; then drain them, and boil the sugar to the seventh degree, add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the same again the following day; let the fruit and sugar incorporate to- gether for a couple of days, before you put them into pots, and keep the pan in a warm place ; the proportion of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. NIVERNOISE.*—Take, thirty small carrots, and cut them into pieces like olives, scald them for about five mi- * nutes ; drain, cool, and then put them into a stewpan, with sufficient plain or root consomme to cover them; let the whole boil until the carrots are done, and well incorporated with the liquor; then use it with the articles requiring it. NONPAREIL.’"—Poppy seeds sugar- ed in the manner directed under the articles Sugared Seeds, are called Xon- pareils; they are tinged of different colours, by the introduction of the vari- ous colouring materials into the sugar with which they are covered. NOUGAT."" — Blanch and wash a pound of sweet almonds, and having drained them well, cut each into five slips, which place in a gentle oven to dry; let them be all equally coloured of a clear yellow; in the meantime, put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar into a pieserving pan, set it on a stove, stirring with a wooden spoon until completely dissolved; then take the almonds out of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into the liquid sugar; mix them together well. Have ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you think proper, in the in- terior of which place the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-juice, when the whole is covered, remove the mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. tt • Nouoats d la Franeaise.* — Haying blanched three quarters of a pound of