O R G ( 367 ) 0 V E the above quantity, three quarts of orange-flower water may be drawn. Orange Flower {Double) (Voter.* — Draw four quarts of orange-flower water from six quarts distilled as above; put to this water the same quantity of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, and it will yield live pints. Orange Peel to Candy.*—Take some Seville orange peel, and let it soak in several waters till it lias lost its bitter- ness, then boil it in a solution of double refined sugar iu water, till it becomes tender and tran.sparent. Orange Peel, to Preserve.*—Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peel in strong salt and spring water, to soak for three days,repeat this three times, then put them on a sieve to dry; take one pound of loaf-sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent; dry them before the fire; take loaf-sugar, with just sufticient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling, put in the peels, stirring con- tinually until all the sugar is candied round them, then put them to dry either before the fire or m an oven, and when perfectly dried, put them by for use. Orange Peel {Ratafia of).— Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy; dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of 'the oranges, add to it the brandy, and hav- ing stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month ; then strain it off, and bottle it. ORGEAT.*—Blanch a pound ofsweet, and twenty-four bitter almonds; pound them to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water occasionally-to prevent their oil- ing; mix a gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and orange-flower water, with this paste; beat them together for some time; then strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, stirring it with a spatula, and serve, it in decanters. Orgeat Paste.— Pound the almonds with a little orange-flower water to a fine paste, and then work up with it an equal weight of powder-sugar. This paste will keep a long while, and by dissolving a small portion of it in water, and straining it, orgeat may be prepared very quickly. An ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a pint of water. Orgeat {Syrup of).*—Take a pound and a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter almonds, throw them into boiling water, and leave them till the skins can be removed with ease, then throw them into cold water for a minute before you Minch them, after which, they must sain be put into cold water; tlien pound them, a few at a time, in a marble mortar, adding^occasionally some water to prevent their oiling; wheii all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this with the greater part of a quart of water, (of which reserve six ounces); put the paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wring out all the milk from the almonds, put the latter into the mortar, and pound them again, adding by degrees the remainder of the water, and then squeeze these also in a cloth ; pour the whole of this milk into a matrass, large enough to contain, at least, one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower water; cork the matrass tight, and set it on a bain marie; wheri the sugar is completely dissolved, (which should be accelerated by shaking the matrass occa- sionally), lessen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the vessel is quite cold, put the syrup into bottles. If you should have no matrass, tjou may make your syrup in the following manner : boil the above mentioned quantity of sugar to forte plume, then add the milk of almonds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, take it from the fire; when cold, flavour it with a pint of orange-flower water. Or this syrup may be made in a still more simple way, as thus: put the milk of almonds into some pounded sugar, without being clarified or boiled pre- viously; when the syrup begins to boil, add about a coffee-cupful of orange-flower water, and after it has boiled up two or three times, take it from the fire; let it get quite cold before you bottle it. Keep it well corked. Orgeat (Voter.—Pound a quarter of a pound of sweet and two or three bitter almonds (blanched) and two ounces of the four cold seeds; add a little water occasionally to prevent the almonds from oiling; put this paste into a bowl, and mix with it a quart of water and two ounces of powder-sugar, in about an hour’s time, strain it into a decanter. A little milk may be added, if required, particularly white. ORTOLANS to Roast.—They should be picked and singed, hut not drawn ; put them on skewers, with bacon round them, tie them to the spit; when they are done, strew them over with grated bread ; or they may he spitted sideways, with a bay-leaf between, and the dish should be garnished all round with fried bread- crumbs. OVEN {Directions for the).—Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or fat that may have run over from any thing that