) A L M A L M ( swreet almonds, and beat them fine with orange flower water, whisk the whites of three eggs to a high froth, strew in a htUe sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add niore sugar till as thick as paste. Lay it in cakes, and hake it on paper in a cool oven. AhyionD Piir6e-*—Boil the crumb of a very light roll in a pint offish broth, boil it slowly until nearly dissolved, then mix in with it a few sweet and two bitter almonds, and three yolks ofeggs pounded, and moistened with the same broth. Stir altogether, pass it through some bunting, diluting it vvith more broth when too thick. ALMONo/v/ce.—Blanch sweet almonds, and pound them in a marble mortar; mix them in a little boiling water; press them as long as there is milk in the al- monds, adding fresh water every time ; to every quart of almond juice, put a quarter of a pound of rice and two tea- spoonsful of orange flower water; mix them all together, and simmer it over a slow charcoal fire ; stir it repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at pleasure ; serve it with beaten cinnamon strewed over. Almond (Bitter) Rolls.*—Blanch and pound eight ounces of almonds (five_ of i sweet and three of bitter) to a very fine paste; then place eight ounces of flower on your slab; make a hole in the middle, and put into it eight ounces of powder- sugar, the yolks of four eggs, .and a grain of salt; mix them all well together into a firm smooth paste ; roll it out and cut it into four equal parts ; roll each piece to I the same length; cut them into nieces 1 about the size of a walnut, and form them to the shape of a wild turnip, and as you i do them put them on a baking-tin lightly buttered; dorez them and bake them of a proper colour in a moderate oven. When theyare taken from the oven, let them stand a little while to dry. AmioND (Bitter) Souffle Frau^ais.*— Pound four ounces of bitter almonds to a line paste as usual, then throw them into boiling milk (nine glasses) and three- quarters of a pound of sweet macaroons ; cover this for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a napkin. In the mean time wash a pound of Carolina rice ! in several waters, warm; put .some cold ' water into a saucepan, and when it has , boiled a few minutes, add to it the rice . in a sieve and the infusion of almonds; when well boiled, put the saucepan on 0 hot ashes, that the rice may hurst gra- I dually. In three-quarters of an hourput j( to it ten ounces of powder-sugar, three f quarters of a pound of good fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, stir them in well, put jj Iresh cinders under the saucepan, and let it boil gently for an hour; then, if the- rice is quite tender, press it through a hotting as for puree, and put it again on liotasiies to keep it hot. Whip up six- teen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and when pretty firm, take your rice cream from the fire and stir into it the sixteen yolks ; this mixture should be of tbe con- sistenceofere/nepatissiere, \i\i be thicker dilute it withalittleliquid whipped cream. Take at first a quarter of the whipped eggs, stir it as lightly as possible, then, by degrees mix in the rest. _ Have ready a crouslade eleven inches in diameter, and three inches and three-quarters high, but very thin ; wrap round this three sheets of buttered paper,and bake it; when your preparation is thoroughly amalga- mated, pour it into croustade, and bake for about two hours or two hours and a half in a moderate oven. When nearly ready to serve, place hot cinders on a large baking plate, take the souffle from the oven, put it on them, and while there cover it with poivder-suear, and glaze it with the salamander. Carry it to the dining-room as quick as possible, remove it carefully from the cinders, and place it in the dish with a napkin under- neath, take away the buttered papers, and the souffle is then ready. Almond Milk Soup.*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, put them op the fire with some water until near boiling, then blanch and throw them into fresh water; drain and pound them. Boil a pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinna- iiion, coriander, and lemon peel, for a quarier of an hour, and rub the al- monds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it, us hot as possible without boiling. Ah'Mom)(!/ellow)Sweeimeafs.*—Blanch a pound ol sweet almonds, wash them in cold water, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs, into a line hut rather stifl’ paste; add to them a pound of powdered sugar and tlie rinds of two lemons grated ; knead the paste well with your hands, first sprinkling the table with sugar. Form the paste into wh.at figures you plesse, such ;is fieur-de-lis, trefoil, &c. each being about the size and weight of a macaroon. Flace tllfem on white paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- derately hot stove. 11 they are of a deep yellow, they are sufficiently done.— These sweetmeats maybe still fuithor nrnainciited in the following manner:— Boil some sugar in orange flower water to the degree called tfraiide plume, and as soon as the awcelmcals areiaken from the stove or oven, wash them over with