APR APR (28 close, and it will be fit to eat in two months. Apricot Pie.*—Line a dish with puff paste, and then put in eighteen fine apri- cots, (cut in halves and the stones tal<en out,) with four ounces of sugar in pow- der, and four ounces of butter luke warm. Then lay on the upper crust, glaze with tlie white of egg, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it bake in a moderate oven to a nice light colour. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve it cold, you must leave out the butter. Apricots a la Portugaise*—Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones; place them on a silver plate, and pour over some clari- fied sugar, with a little water ; put them on a stove without covering them ; when sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and strew sugar over ; then put on the lid of the baking-pan under the fire, to make them of a good colour. Apricots, to preserve, — Pare your apricots, and stone what you can whole, then give them a light boiling in water proportioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough; then take the weight of the apricots in sugar, and take the li- quor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a sy- rup, and give them alight boiling, taking oft'the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies, it is enough ; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. Apricots, to preserve 6Veen.—Gather the apricots before they have s tones, which you may discoverby passing a pin through them ; then coddle them in several wa- ters until they become quite green; peel them and coddle them again ; then take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup ; put to the sugar some water, then put in the apricots, and set them upon the fire to boil slowly till they be clear, skim- ming them often, when they will be quite green. Put them in glasses, and keep them for use. Apricot Pudding.—Whisk up a pint of milk or cream, six eggs, four table- spoonsful of fine flour, a little salt, and a smallquantityof poundedcinnamon. Rub the apricots well through a hair sieve, and add a suflicient quantity of the pulp to make the whole a little thicker than batter; sweeten, and put it into a but- tered basin, and boil an hour and a quar- ter. Serve with melted butter. Apricot Pudding a la Prantaise,*— Take six-and-thirty nice line red apri- cots, cut them in halves, and take out the stones, and roll them in a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar. Prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apricots, and finish the same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding <i la Franfuise. Apricot Puffs.*—Roll out some puff- paste to about fifteen inches long, the eighth of an inch in thickness, and five or six inches wide; then lay on at equal distances, two inches from the edge of the paste, a small quantity of apricot marmalade; moisten the paste round each bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste over, press it down round the preserve so as to unite the upper and under crusts, and to keep the marmalade from spreading; and then withacircular paste, using half of it only, cut them out into semi-circular turnovers; place them on a baking-tin, rforez and bake them in a hot oven. When nearly done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. Apricot Ratafia.—Peel and cut into pieces as many ripe apricots as you may require, and boil them in white wine (about a pint to four dozen) ; strain and mix it with an equal quantity of brandy; ut the whole into a jar, with tlie kernels ruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, then filter and bottle it. Apricots (Sovffii Parisien of).* — Take forty-six fine ripe apricots cut in half and stoned, three-quarters of a pound of sugar m syrup, make a dry marmalade and pass it tlmough a sieve. Whip eighteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and mix two spoonsful of it with the marmalade, and when it has suffi- ciently softened the latter, mix all to- gether lightly and pour it into a crous- tade, and finish as directed for SouffU Parisien of Apples, Apricot (Liquid) Sweetmeat or Pre- serve,*—Green apricots are done in the same way'as green almonds: the fruit must be taken before the stone is formed; when you put a pin through them. Apricot Sweetmea t whole and dry.*— Choose fine firm apricots, make a little opening at the top to take out the stone, put them into cold water, then blanch them over the fire ; when they begin to boil, take out those which are soft, throw them into cold water, and drain them. In tlie meantime, prepare some clarified sugar to petit lisse. When it boils put in the apricots, and boil up a few times to- gether. The next day separate the su- gar from the fruit, boil d la nappe, and then pour it over the apricots again; the following day boil the sugar petit perli. then add the fruit, and boil together; the