( A L M ) A L M ing, mix four ounces of sugar with an egg; lieat them up for ten minutes ; add a little carmine to make it a fine rose colour; dip the almonds into this: take them out; disengage them from the egg, so tliat they may be only just covered with it; lay them two and two on a sheet of strong paper three-quarters of an inch between each pair; tliey may also be placed in threes to form the tre-foil, on which_ may be added a fourth. Bake them in a cool oven. Almond Brearf.—Take a pound of the best almonds, slice them the round way, lieat and sift a pound of double-refined Kugar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stirring them frequently to prevent their sticking together; when all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen basin, with a few carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose-water and strained), three grains of musk and ambergris dissolved in fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a very light froth, and two spoonsful of fine flour: when well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons; open them with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them, the better they will look; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch; when half- baked, talce them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. Almond Butler.—To a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, put some new milk and rose-water; take a quart of tliick cream, and the yolks of twelve eggs beat well with a little of the cream ; tlien add the rest of the cream; put a quarter of a pint of new milk to the almonds, and strain them into the cream till there is no strength left; strain all together into a skillet, set it over a char- coal fire, and stir it till it comes to a ten- der curd; put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the whey is drained out; then take six ounces of fine sifted sugar and a little rose-water, and beat it all into butt"r with a spoon. Almond Ca^e.*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet and two large bitter almonds, pound them very fine, with a little white of egg; add to them about a quarter of a pound of fine powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, a macaroon, the yolks of two eggs, two spoonshil of wliipt cream ; mix these ingredients well together with a little salt. Make an under crust of puli' paste; and after having rolled it seven or eight times, cut it round, and put it in a cake-lin ; moisten the edges slightly, and pour on it the almond paste, and c.iver it with the pair paste, and join tliem closely. Wash it over with a very clear dorure, and witli the point of your knife mark what ornament you please on the sur- face.—Let it bake in a moderately liot oven for about an hour; take it out and sprinkle it with sugar. Almond Cake.—Take, eight ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and pound them very fine; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth. Then take eight table speons- fiil of sifted sugar, five spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, fill it with the mixture and bake it of a light colour. Almond Cake.*—Put a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet almonds pounded very fine: knead the whole, and form it into acake; bake, and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. Another way.—Weigh three eggs in their shells, take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound »vith lliese in- gredients three ounces of sweet almonds blanclied; add a little grated lemon-peel, or orange flow'er-water, and the whites and yolks of three eggs. Continue pound- ing till the whole forms a smooth paste. Blitter the bottom of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with fire above and be- low. This cake may be served either hot or cold, w'ith grated sugar over it. Almond {hitter) Ca^.*—Pound three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of al- monds, put them into an earthen pan with six ounces of powder-sugar; tlie same of sifted flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, a spoonful of brandy and a grain or two of salt; work these up loge- ther for five minutes, and then add six ounces of fresh butter which is slightly warmed, work tliat in for four minutes longer. Then, having wiiipt the whiter of two eggs, mix them into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper mould or paper case, ten Indies long, five wide, and two high ; pour in your preparation, and liake it in a cool oven. While b.aking, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix two ounces of powder sugar witli them, and cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips (sbortwise); mix them also with two ounces of powder sugar ami a spoonful of wliite of egg whipped. In thrce-quai tens of an hour take out the cake, ana if it bo