F 0 W ( 251 ) F 0 W the puff-paste, and serve with a good sauce. Fowl (to marinade).— Take a large fowl, and with your finger r.aise the skin from the breast bone. Cut a veal sweet- bread very small, a few oysters, a few mushrooms, an anchovy, some pepper, a little nutmeg, some lemon-peel, and a small portion of thyme. Chop all small, and mix it together with the j'olk of an egg ; stuff it in between the skin and the flesh, being very careful not to break the skin, and then fill the body of the fowl with oysters. Then lard the breast of the fowl with bacon ; cover it with paper, and roast it. Make a good gravy. Gar- nish with lemon, and send it to table. Fowl (il/oor or Moor Game).— Moor fowl should be treated the same as par- tridges ; sometimes a bit of bread, fried brown in butter, is served under them. Fowl (Moor), with Red Cabbage. — Truss the moor game as for boiling; put them on with a little soup; stew them for half an hour; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor fowl; season with white pepper and salt, a small bit of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of red wine. Lilt out the cabbage, and arrange it neatly in the dish, the moor fowl on it. Pour the sauce over them, and garnish with small slices of fried bacon. Fowl (Moor, or Moor Game), to Pot. —Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; then dry them; and well season them inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Put them in as small a pot as will hold them; cover them with butter, and bake them in a very slow oven. When they are cold, take off the butter ; dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot; they should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, being very careful that it does not oil. The best method of warming it is by putting it in a basin, and setting the basin in hot water. Fowl roith Olives.—Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl d la Dreux. Then take some olive.s, which should be blanched till tiiey are no longer briny. Next boil them in a thin Espagmlc. Skim the sauce, and add a little lemon- juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve with some stuffed olives, without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so as to take out the stones, and leave the olives whole. Fowl (Panada of).— Boil a bit of crumb of bread in some good broth, add to it the breast of a couple of fowls, roasted, and very finely pounded ; sift all together in a cloth, with strong pressing, and add broth according to the consistence you would have it. Fowls with Rice, called Pillace.—Boil a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pepper, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, tied up in a bit of cloth; when the rice is tender, take out the spice ; stir in a piece of but- ter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon; lay them in the dish, cover them with the rice; lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs, cut in halves, quar- ters, and lengthways, with onions, first boiled, and then fried. Fowl (Pudding of) d la Reine.—This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast and fleshy parrs of several fowls, and cut them into small dice, all of an equal size. Throw these dice into a reduction of veloute, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may cool. When this preparation is quite cold, cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the extremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying-pan. When they are fried to a good colour, drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin veloute, or green parsley fried between. Fowl (Puree of). * — Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about an ounce of calf’s udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; pound them all together until well rnixed. Dissolve two spoonsful of white jelly or consomme, and three of beehamelle or veloute •, and when liquid, add to it the pounded meat; stir i^em together over the fire, but do not let it boil ; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie: serve it with bread in the usual manner. Fowls (Quenelles o/).* —Take the breasts of lour fowls, and scrape the meat oil' with a knife; pound it well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve into a pl.ate: soak the crumb of a French roll in milk till quite soft, then put it into a cloth to press out all the moisture, and pound as much of that as you h.ave meat; then take an equal quantity of butter, and beat it up with the bread, until (he butter cannot be distinguished, when the foivl should be added, and all three ingredients pounded together; to this put four yolks of eggs, or more if necessary, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; when the whole is well pounded, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix them in lightly; poach a little of it to try if