( 284 ) II A R H A R in beef stock ami white wine, with pound- ed ginger and cloves; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon- juice. Garnislj tiie dish witli greens and sliced lemon. Hk'R'E, Haricot.*—Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a saucepan lined with streaked bacon; add turnips, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, half a pintof good stock or boiling water only. Let itstand, closelycovered, over a small fire, and when nearly done, throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread; skim oft' the fat, put it in a hot dish, and squeeze lemoi\-jnice over it. Hare, Hushed.* —Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before the fire, and lialf roast it; then take it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef gravy, put in the hare; simmer it for two hours; then add a glass and a half of port wine; let it stand a little while longer over tlie fire, and then serve it with currant-jelly. Hare, Jugged. — Having skinned a bare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, all- spice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine ; simmer the whole till three parts done ; then take out the shoulders, legs, and back; put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a little flour and butter, stew them till quite done; take off the fat, season with cayenne, salt, .and lemon-juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. Hare Loaf.*—Make a fnree in the same manner as for the Boudins of hare, with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, litie this completely with thin slices of baron; then put in the/arce; have a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come wiihiii an inch of the top of it, lay thin slices of bacon over the hare, cover the saucepan and pul fire on the lid ; let the water simmer, in about an hour, sec if it be sufficiently done, if so, take it from the mmdd. Glaze and serve it w'th a fumet of game sauce ; if you think proper, make a hole in the top, intowliicli put the kidneys of the bare, previously dressed in a little champagne. , Marf. wfff/i O/Zecs.*—Your hare being skinned, cut it in pieces, lard the legs and fillets with small lardotu; braise the pieces, but when about three parts done, lake them out and put them into a sauce- pan; then take the gravy of the hare, mix it with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it with the gravy and half a hundred olive.s (pre- viously soaked and scalded), to the hare; set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender; put the whole into a dish, squeeze lemon-juice over, and serve it very hot. Hare Pie.—Cut a hare in pieces, sea- son it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, and mace ; put it into a jug with half a pound of butter, cover it close, and set in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the mean time make a forcemeat with a qu.arterof a poutid of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, the liver minced small; season with peu- per, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole together with the yolks of three eggs; make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, then some of the hare ; put forcemeat on them, .and so on till your hare is all in; add the gravy from the hare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. Hare, Potted.—Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean ; cut in pieces, and put them into ajar with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs, if you choose, tie it over and set it in an oven with tl>e bread. When done, take the meat from the bones .and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy to a fine paste. Press it down closely in pots, and cover it 'vith clarified butter. Hare, Bagoilt tf.—Skin and take all the bi.nes from a hare that has hung son>e d.aysfletive the head untouched); lay it open on the table; strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over; roll it up close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a cle.vr braize, which must be reduced to half the quantity; then add half a bottle of port, and stew till the hare is done; take it out, and put toilie liquor a little plain sauce; reduce tl>e whole to the proper consistence; add truffles, morels, mushrooms, cocks'- combs, fat livers, forcemeat-balls, and artichoke-bottoms; a little lemon juica may be .added ; serve the hare with ihi* sauce. Hare, Roasted.—The hare being skm- ned, cleaned, and trussed, make a good stufling as follows : a quarter <'i a pound of beef-suet, shred fine, some bread- cruuibs, the liver boiled and chopped small, sweet herbs, irrated lemon-peel, nnd nutmeg; mix these together we^., bind them with an egg, put this into the hare, tie it up, and fasten it to the spit;