( 294 ) J E L J AC close the stewpan tight, place it in the oven ; when done, serve it with the braise and its own gravy. Jack or Pike, Grenadins c/.*—Hav- ing scaled and otherwise prepared the fisl), cut it into pieces, lard them with streaky bacon, and put them into a stew- pan ; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and fillet of veal, cut into dice, white wine and brothstew it, and when done, strain the liquor ; lay the pieces of jack in a dish, glaze them, and serve witli any sauce you please. Jack or Piked I’Italienne.*—Putsome small jack into a stewpan with some olive oil, sliced onions, a clove of garlic, car- rots, a bay-leaf, white vvine, stock, salt and pepper ; stew them over a slow fire, take off the fat, and serve them in the sauce. Jack or Pike d la Muitre d’Hotel.*— Having cleaned, scaled, and emptied some small pike, wrap them in a sheet of buttered paper, and broil them. When done, open them, and take out the spawn (if there be any), and put in its place a piece of butter, worked up with some shred parsley, salt and pepper. Jack or Pike en Matelote.*—Cut the pike in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, parsley, scallions, scalded onions, salt, pepper, and a bottle of red wine: boil it up, and add some butter, mixed with flour, and krowned with whatever garniture you may have by you ; boil the whole to- gether half an hour, and then serve all the articles together in a large dish. Any other fish may be added to the matelote; but they should not be put in till ihe pieces of jack are partly done. Jack or Pike Potted.— Scale it, and cut ofl' the head : split it, and take otit tlie back bone; strew it all over with bay-salt and pepper; cover it, and bake it i then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain ; when it is cold, lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. Jack or Pike Salad.* — Cut the re- mains of ft cold pike into pieces, and mix with it capers, gherkins, anchovies, and some herbs, shred : serve the jack, gar- nishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table. Jack or Pike Stuffed aiul Roastal.*— Let the fish lay for some days, then empty and scale it: if it be for a maigre dish, lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles; if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley and scallions: stuff it: wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which Bprc.ad sweet herbs, spices, and salt; fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butler. When dene, take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce Xtiquante. JARDINIERE.*—The jardiniere is composed of the same articles, and in a similar manner to the Macedoine, the only diflerence consists in the sauce ; the vegetables for this being put into a reduced espagnolc, or a demi-gluce of roots : it is used on the same occasions as the Macedoine. JAUNE Mange.—BoW an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water till melted ; strain it, then add the juice of two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten and strained ; sugar accord- ing to taste ; stir it over a gentle fire tdl it just boils up ; when cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if there should hap- pen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JELLY to cover Cold Fislt._—Take a maid, clean it, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot or cow- heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Let it stew till it will jelly, then strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up frona the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of five eggs, and a bit of lemon. Boil without stirring it, and after a few minutes, set it by to stand for half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a napkin in it. When cold, cover the fish with it. Jellies for Entremefe.*—Hartshorn, calf’s feet, and isinglass, are the usual materials used to coagulate sweet jellies; of these three, the latter is the best, as, when properly clarified, (for which see Isinglass), it is the clearest, and has no unpleasant flavour. Jellies are made of all sorts of fruit, and sometimes of flowers and liqueurs. For directions to prepare them, see the various articles of which they are com- posed. . Jelly of Fromage Bavarois.*—1 ut the yolks of nine eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt, half a pound of sugar, a pinch of crisped orange-flowers, mid half a pint of cream (previously boiled) : set these over a gentle fire, and stir till it thickens, taking particular care that it does not boil, then strain it through a silk sieve ; have ready an ounce of clarified isinglass, mix it with the cream and a Chantilly cheese ; when well incor-