470 ) T R 0 TRI TREACLE, Pudding.*—Mix together a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a pound of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice: when well stirred up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIFLE.*—Cover the bottom of the dish with Naples biscuit.s, and maca- roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine, poured over them; cover tlicm with patches of raspberry ,iam ; fill the dish with a good custard, then whip up a syllabub, drain the frotli on a sieve; put it on tiie custard, and strew comfits over all. Trifle. — Sweeten three pints of cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the .juice, and grate in half a nutmeg; whisk this up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve over a disli tliat has ratafia cakes, macaroons, sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, citron, and candied orange-peel, cut into small pieces, some cprrant jelly, and rasp- berry jam in it, that the liquor may run npon them; when they are soaked, lay them in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the froth as high as possible, well drained ; strew over nonpareils, and stick on little slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. Trifle.—Lay some macaroons and ra- tafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and soak them well with raisin wine, when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold custard. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of rasp- berry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the preceding day, of rich cream, tlic whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lemon-peel, and rai- sin wine, well beat with a whisk. It is best to make it the day before it is want- ed, being more solid and better tasted. Trifle.*—Put half a pound of maca- roons into a dish, pour over them some white wine, and a pint of custard over that, make a whip, and put on it; garnish according to your fancy. TRIPE, Breaded.* — Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with par.sley, salt, and pepper ; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. \Vhen done, serve them with slices of lemon. Tripe (KilJcenni/), Jris/i Dish.*—Cat a piece of double tripe into square pieces, peel, and wash ten large onions, cut each in tw.>, and boil them in a little water till tender, then put in the tripe; when it has boiled ten minute.'', pour oil all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, and Htld some butter, mustard, and salt; shake the whole over the fire, till the butter is melted; then .dish, and serve as hot as possible; garnish with lemon sliced, or b.-irberries. Tripe, Stewed.*—Cut a pound of tripe into pieces, and put it into a small sauce- pan, ivith half a pint of milk, three oun- ces of rice, a little allspice, and pepper, pounded, and a little celery-seed tied in a bitofmuslin ; let the whol&stew gently for four hours, and serve. (For other methods of dressing tripe, see beef. TROUT.—This fish is held in great es- timation,it is afresh waterfish,and when good, of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright; the female is cons'dered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. Trout, u VAnglaise.*—Boil the fish in a court-bouillon., take oft' the fillets, jay them on a dish, and keep them hot in the bain-marie. Roll some butter in flour, dissolve it in either veal or fish gravy, according as you wish to serve it, in gras or maigre ; add a slice or two of lemon, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir it well over the lire, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and pour the sauce, whilst boiling, over the fillets. Trout Boiled.-^^oW them with some vinegar in the water, some salt, and a bit of horse-radish ; serve with white sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain butter. Trout Collared.— They are done in the same manner as eels are collared. Trout Fried.— After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or s'rew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour ; serve with crisped par- sley, and plain butter, or anchovy sauce. Trout d la Genoise.*—Lay ,o trout in a fish-kettle, and put on it two carrots; and four onions, all sliced, parsley, scal- lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, t«o cloves, salt, pepper, and red wine ; set it on the fire, and boil it three quarters of an hour; strain the liquor, and put it into another saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and tliree dessert- spoonsful of flour; set it on the fire, and stir till it is till well united; reduce it over a large fire, and when it will adhere to the spoon, serve it over the trout, previously drained. Trout Marinaded.— Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to_ coyer them, put them in when the oil is Iwil- ing ; as aeon as they are crisp t-ike them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade of equ.al quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg.