CAL ( 103 ■) CAL ihllk and beaten up with yolks of ei?g8. Soften some caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture; form them to any shape you please, and bake them ; when crisp, they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Chuse some of the largest calves’ nuts, and having cleansed them, cut them in pieces, of whatever lengths you may think proper, and tie one end of each piece. Blanch a calf’s cliaudron, and cut it into dice, with a calf’s udder and some bacon; put them into a stewpan with half a pint of cream, pounded spice, bay-leaf, slialot, pepper, and salt, toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs and some bread-crumbs; keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them, let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted, boil them over a moderate fire. Calf’s Chitterlings. — Cut into dice, some bacon, a calf’s udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calves’ chaudron; put them all into a stewpan with a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, shalot cut small, pounded raace, and Ja- maica pepper, with half a pint of milk, let it just simmer; take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and some crumbs of bread; fill the chit- terlings with this mixture, wliich must be kept warm, and make the links like hogs’-puddings. Before they are sent to table, boil them over a moderate fire; let them cool in their own liquor. Calf’s Chitterlings stewed. — Cut a calf’s nut, lengthways, in slices about an inch wide; take some ham, bacon, white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way; put them into a stewpan 'vith sal t, pepper, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the guts, cut and tie them, fill them with the slices; line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay-leaf, and an onion, lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in a pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, lor some time ; then take out the pud- dings, and broil them in buttered papers. Calf’s Ears braised.*—Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hair, and braise them in the following way: put some good stock into a small saucepan, with half a pint of white wine, half a lemon sliced (withont the peel) a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and some •roots; stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon, \7heu done, serve tvith sauce piquante. or a la ravigotte. Calf’s Ears, and Cheese.*—Prepare half a dogen ears, and boil them with half a glass of white wine, double the qiuan- tityofgood stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, two cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done, lake out the ears and let them drain. Make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread- crumbs, half a pint of milk, and a little grnyere cheese, grated ; stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold, add a little butter and the yolks of four raw eggs; beat all up together, and fill the ears,and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quantities of bread crumbs and grated cheese mixed together ; place them in a dish, and brown them. Serve without sauce. Calf’s EarsdVItalienne.*—Scald, Sx:. the calves ears, and boil them in flour and lyater, then put them into a stew- pan lined with bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, sliced lemon, moisten with equal parts of stock and white wine. Cover the whole with buttered paper; boil them slowly for an hour ana a half; drain, trim, and place them on a dish, with sauce A I’halienne. Calf’s Ears in Marinade.*—When you have prepared the number of ears you re- quire,boil them in some blanc, and then throw them into cold water. VVhen well drained cut each ear into three or four pieces, put them into pickle made with vinegar, salt, and a b.ag of herbs ; drain them again, and dip each piece into bat- ter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish, they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Ears in Pease. — When you have properly prepared four ears, cook them in a little clear stock, lemon juioe, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done, serve them with a ragout of pease, pre- pared as follows : put a pint and a half of pease with a bit of butter, a little pars- ley, and green onions, and a pinch of flour, moisten with gravy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire until sufhciently done; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis ; pour the whole over the ears. Ragodl of, with Mush- rooms. —1 repare and dress the eare the satiie as for VItulienne, and when done, drain and place them on your dish, tor table. Trim, and toss up some musli- rooms in bu tter, to which add four large spoonsful of tiefoK/e, and the same of con- somni, reduce this to half; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it over the ears.