PET 391 ) P II E glasF, are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons, at once; vyere its mode of action purely mechanical, there could be no objection to a larger quantity; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines with, and carries down the tanning principle, and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most readily diffused, in liquors, by boiling ; but, by this it is dissolved, and converted into glue, and its organization, op which alone its powers of fining de- pend, is totally destroyed. But, when perry can be made suffi- ciently bright without it, it is better not to use the isinglass; as the liquor is ren- dered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thin and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry, the method is the same as that of cyder, but it does not bear situations, where it is exposed to much change of temperature, 60 well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first suc- ceeding summer. The above directions are, principally, according to Mr. Knight’s rules. Perry Vinegar, as made in Holland.* —The pears which fall from the trees, are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to hasten the fermenta- tion. When the vinegar is made, strain, and let it rest some days; after which, a deposit is formed; draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSICA.*—Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, cork it close; in three weeks_ strain it off, and put to it an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in cus- tards, puddings, and as a liqueur. Petits Pates ('//of).*—Roll out about a pound of puff-paste to a proper thick- ness, which cut into pieces, with a plain round paste-cutter, two inches in diame- ter; place half the number of these pieces on a baking-iin (slightly wetted), about half an inch apart; moisten each of them a little, and liaving laid a small bit of godiveau on every one, cover them with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez. and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear brown. PETTITOES.—Roil the feet, thelivcr, and the heart, ofa sucking pig, in a little water, very; gently, then split the feet, and cut the meat very small, and simmer it with a little of the water till the feet are perfectly tender ; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, put the feet on the mince. PHEASANTS.—The spurs of a young cock pheasant, should be short and round ; when they are long and sharp, the bird is old. A cock pheasant isa fine flavoured bird, but the Ken is accounted the best. When the bird is stale, if the vent is rubbed by the finger, the skin peels off. The same rules may be ob- served for black-cocks. Pheasant d I’Angoumoise.*—Toss up some truffles in a little butter, season them to the taste; then take them from the fire, and when cold, add to them five and twenty or thirty roasted and peeled chesnuts ; stuff a pheasant, larded with truffles, with these, and then wrap it in thin slices of veal or mutton, over which lay two rashers of bacon; tie it up, and put it in a pan on more bacon ; pour a sufficient quantity of malaga, or any other Spanish wine, to cover it, and set it in the oven ; when done, untie it; take oil' all the fat, add some more truffles, and thicken the sauce with roasted chesnuts, pounded quite dry. Pheasant, Boudin of.*— Take all the meat from a cold roasted pheasant (with- out any of the skin or sinews), and mince it very small; break the bones to pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water; draw out the essence of them over the file; soak some bread in this essence ; boil six onions in broth, season them with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, a little basil, and pars- ley ; when done, mince, and mix them with the pheasant .and bread; put the whole into a mortar,and pound it: dilute with cream ; add the yolks of six eggs, and three quarters ofa pound of beef, cut into dice, salt and spices ; put the prepa- ration into skins, as usual. (See Black Ptiddings.) Pheasant. Boudin d la Richelieu.*^ Take all the meat of a pheasant, pound, and rub it.through a quenelle sieve; in the meantime, roast a dozen large po- tatoes, pare them very clean, and,Laving pounded them also, take as much of them as you have pheasant, and pound toge- ther ; add an equal portion of butler, salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spices ; pound the whole, putting in five eggs, one at a time ; when all are in, take the /arce from the mortar, sprinkle the end of the table with flour, lay the farce on it, and roll it up in the form of thick