VE A VE A ( 482 ) Veal {Cold).* — Cut aomc cold veal into tliin slices, the size and thickness of a half crown, dip them into the yolk of an eg«wellbeateti,cover them with bread- crumba, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a p.-in, makeitquite hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on « dish by the aide of the fire; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire m a little butter, with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; keep it on the fire till the sauce adlieres to the mince ; then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste with a little flour, butter, water, the yolk of an egg ; dissolve a little salt in the water you use; roll out this paste very thin, and lay the cold mince in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. Veal d PEsturgeon.*—Lard your joint of veal with small lardons, and put it into a saucepan with small onions, slices of bacon, carrots,artichoke bottoms, a pinch of coriander seeds, salt, pepper, and a bottle of white wine; cover the sauce- pan, and boil it slowly on a moderate fire till done. Serve it m itsown liquor, with the addition of a sauce piguante. Veal Florentine. — Take two veal kidnies, and mince them with their fat, very small, and mix it with a few cur- rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, boiled hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread-crumbs, candied lemon- peel, cut small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, salt, mace, a little mountain wine, and some orange-flower water; line the bottom of a dish with a nice puff- paste, put in the above, cover it with pufl’ paste, and set it to bake in a slow oven. Veal, Fricandeuu of.*—Choose a very plump piece of veal, and with small neat lardons, lard those parts which are not eovered with skin; butter the bottom of n Btewpan, lay in the veal, the larded side uppermost, with four carrots, as many large otiions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, salt, pepper, and two glasses of water; set the pan on the fire ; when the meat is pn'tty near done, let it boil quickly to reduce the sauce, and when quite done, take out the carrots and onions, and let the sauce fill to a glaze, with which cover the meat, and place it on a dish. T,akeout nearly all the fat, and put into thestewpan a dessert spoon- ful of Hour, and a glass of water; stir it well, and then pour it over the veal, serve with soi'rel, endive, spinach,or any thing else you please. If the veal weighs between tliree. or four pounds, it will re- quire three hours boiling; if larger, a longer time will be necessary. Veal Fricandeuu.*—Take the round, or part of the round of a fillet, fry it in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cut it slices, and a little garlic, then set it to stew in some very rich gravy orcnllis: when tender, take it out, thicken the gravy with flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve this sauce over the veal. Veal Fritters.*—Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces; dip these into a good bat- ter, and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. Veal, Grenade of.*—Take a noix of veal, cut it into four piece.', all of the same size, and lard them ; take also a very fine, fowl, season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the inte- rior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which, put a large ball of farce, place the four pieces at the four corners, be- tween them a piece of the fowl (using only the white parts) ; fill up the inter- mediate spaces with oray-fi.'h, and alj the interstices with farce; pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the backs of the cray-fish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in. Set the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed, dip it an instant into boiling water, and then turn it nut. Veal —Take two ounces of salt- petre, one pound of bay, and one pound of common, salt, and one ounce of juniper berries, bruised ; rub some of this well into a leg of veal, cut ham fashion ; lay the shinny side downwards at first, but let it be well rubbed and turned evep’ day for a fortniglit; then hang it in wood smoke for a fortnight. It maybe boiled, or parboiled, and then r<>a>tcd. Veal, Haricot of. — Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck, cut the bones short), and half roast it ; then put it into a stewpan with justsulfirient brown gravy to cover it, and when nearly ihine, have ready a pint of peas boiled, .six encumbers pareil and slic’d, and two lettuces cut into quarters, and stewed iu browngravy, with some forcemeat bails ready fried ; put all these t« the veal, and let them just simmer; lay the veal in a dish, iH)ur