FRA ( 254 ) F R I in a dish ; add a little veal gravy to the liquor, reduce it to tlie proper consis- tence, and pour it very hot over the wings. The garlic, ginger, and pepper may be omitted at pleasure. Fowl {JVings of) en Redingote.*— Take the number of wings you intend to use, and having trimmed, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, taking care that the whole of the wing is covered; tie them round, and put them into a sauce- pan, with some broth, parsley, a bay-leaf, salt, and pepper. When done, take them out and let them drain ; then cover them with bread-crumbs, and broil them oyer a clear slow fire ; take offthe strings, dish, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. FRANGIPANE.'*'—Take a saucepan, and put into it five spoonsful of flour, five eggs, a pint of milk, an ounce of butter and a little salt; set it on the fire, stir- ring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great care that it does not burn; then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Take a few almonds, (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them, and some macaroons, and when reduced to powder, mix them with a little crisped orange-flower (also in powder), and a sufficient quantity of powder-sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above pre- paration, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your frangipane be too thick, add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may de- sire. You may, if you think proper, substi- tute pistachios for the sweet almonds, in which case a little spinach essence must be added to colour it, the macaroons and orange-flowers omitted, and three bitter almonds only used. Frangipane, Sonfflu of.*—Put six des- sert spoonsful of water into a saucepan, with four yolks undone whole egg, a pint of cream, and an ounce of butter; put them on the fire, and stir constantly till done, when it may be taken off and set to cool; mix together six dessert spoons- ful of powder-sugar, two bitter and three sweet macaroons, some dried biscuits, and crisped orange-flowers all crushed to powder, add these to the above prepara- tion, stir it well, and, if necessary, add more yolks of eggs; whip the whites of five eggs as for biscuits, put them to the rest, and then pour the whole into a sil- ver dish, set it in a gentle oven, and serve it the instant it is done. Frangipane Tartlets of.*— Lme some tartlet moulds with pull-paste, fill them up with the frangipane, to which add a small quantity of ckoux paste, dorcz, aud lay on each a band of the puff-paste twisted in the form of a snail; bake them in a hot oven, and glaze them white. Frangipane, Tourteof.*—Take some pull-paste, and having rolled it out to the proper thickness, cut it to the size and shape you may desire; roll out the re- mainder of the paste to a band sufficiently long to surround it, and about an inch and a half wide; place this round the under crust, first moistening the edges that they may adhere properly; put frangipane (see that article) into this, ornament it with the paste according to your fancy, dorezthe. edges, bake it in a hot oven ; when nearly done, sprinkle sugar over, and glaze it; serve it either hot or cold. FRICASSEE jBroum.* — Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shalots, one or two anchovies, a bit of horse-radish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour, then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of claret; you may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix these all together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, roll them in flour, then fry them, and gar- nish your dish with them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. Fricassee, fVhite.*—Cut a couple of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry : put them into a stewpan with milk ana water, and let them stew till they are tender, and then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir them well together till the butter is melted; be careful to keep it cons^ntly stirring, or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits, take a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms; shake tliem together for a few minutes, and then put it to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose. FRITTERS. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, by- dropping a small quantity into the pan. or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored in the batter, and fry some of itwfith each slice. Currants or sliced lemon, .as thin as possible, arc very nice. Fritters.—Fritters should be sent to