( 388 ) PER PEA a quarter of a pound of butter, and Halt to the taste ; liaving boiled them till the peas are sufficiently done, take out tlie other vegetables, and rub the peas through a sieve. The puree sliould be rather thick than otherwise, as it may be made thinner by the potage which you add to it. Peas (Ragodt of) with Bacon.* — Take half a pound of bacon, cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter; put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and pour on a little water ; leave the peas in this for about seven or eight minutes, then drain and set them on the fire ; in a few minutes, add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; stew the whole over a gentle fire ; skim it well, and if too salt, add a little sugar. Peas 2 la Sefton.—Take three pints of young fresh-gathered peas, and put them into a pan with two ounces of but- ter and plenty of cold water, work them well with the butter till they adhere to- gether, and having drained them tho- roughly in a cullender, stew them gently with a bunch of parsley and scallions ; as soon as they become green, sprinkle a little flour over, give them a stir, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and reduce it quickly over a large fire; dissolve a small lump of sugar, and merely a taste of salt in a little water; add this to the pens, and while they are still boiling, put in about two ounces of butter worked up with a spoonful of flour. Peas Soup. * —Take the liquor in which a joint of salt-beef, pork, or leg of mutton has been boiled; put it into a large saucepan, with beef-bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery-seed tied in a bag, a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire four or five hours. When sufficiently done, rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season it to your taste, and serve with mint dried, and rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and cayenne pepper. Peas (Green) Soup.—Take a pint of old peas, put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of water, ati ounce of butter, an onion or two. some lettuce- leaves, pepper and salt: cover the saucepan close, and let them simmer till the peas are quite soft; then rub them through a cullender, and to the liquor add more water, the remamderof the lettuces, a pint of young peas, a little chopped spiuach, mint, salt, pep- per, some more butter, and a table spoonful of flour; boil these also till the peas can be rubbed through a cullender; then mix them with the old peas, strain the liquor over, and serve. Peas (Green) to Stexo.—Put into a stewpan a quait of peas, a lettuce and an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from wash- ing. Stew them very gently for two hours. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them; or a bit of flour and butter. Peas Stewed d lu FraiiQaise. — Boil some very young peas in plenty of spring water with a little salt in it; when done, drain oil' the water, and put them to stew with a bit of butter, a green onion, and a small buneh of parsley, a little sugar and salt; let these stew to- gether for a few minutes, then add two or three spoonsful of consomme; when they appear dry, add some cream sauce, but take great care not to put too much, if intended for the second course, as there is not so much required as for an entree in the first course; before serving, mix in a liaison oi the yolk of one egg, with a little cream. PEPPER CaA’es.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper in a gill of sack, for a quarter of an nour ; then strain, and mix the liquor with as much fine sugar as will make a paste; drop this on a tin plate,and let them dry. Pepper Put.*—Take as much spinach as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it Soil then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and return it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if you have them, and half a pound of bacon; put the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour, put in a few suet dumplings ; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer; season it well with cayenne, and serve. Pepper Sauce.—Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a parsley root (all cut in slice.'), two cloves of garlic, a bay-leaf, ttvo cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour, add some cullis. half a glass of vinegar and broth, salt and coarse pepper; reduce to a proper con- sistence, skim and strain it. PERCH.—Perch are not esteemed so much as carp and tench ; but they are a most delicate fish; their freshness may be ascertained by the liveliness of their eyes, and the stillness of their fins. 1 etch