C A II CAR ( 120 ) in n vpsRt'l auflicicntly long to let it lay full length: you must, before you put your carp into your vessel, line your vessel with a layer of onions cut in slices, with two cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange-peel, salt, pepper, and a pint of wine, or two pints, according to the size of your fish; add a glass or two of fish bouillon, or in case you have not any ready, you may substitute boiling water ; cook it over a slow fire for two or three hours. When it is suflnciently done, take it out, and place it on a dish; strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin, reduce it, then pour it over your fish. Carp A P Estaing.*—Clean, scale, and take out the gills of a carp, lard it •with bacon, truffles, and fillets of ancho- vies ; then make a farce of the flesh of perch, roach, or any other small fish, chopped up with crumb of bread boiled in milk; add parsley, scallion, shalots, salt, nutmeg, butter, and tbe yolks of three eggs; mix the whole well together, and stufl'your carp. Put into a stewpan some onions, butter, and slices of truf- fles ; put in your carp, (having first care- fully sewn up the opening of the belly where you have put in your stuffing, and run a thread through the mouth of the fish, that you may take it out of the stewpan without breaking!. Moisten it with equal quantities of fisn bouillon and red burgundy, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; let it stew for three hours; serve it upon a dish, and pour over it the sauce re- maining in the stewpan, having first strained it through a sieve. Caup (Farce of).—Take the flesh of two carps, v/hich should be chopped, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve. Soak some crumbs of bread in some good milk ; have a few mushrooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter, over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the bread which has been soaked and squeezed propeily, with the flesh of the carp that has been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter of about the same bulk as the flesh of the carp, and season with pepper, salt, allspice, three or four eggs’ whites, and e^gs' whites and yolks together; Jarces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more than three, you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done, rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it •when you have occasion. This farce is used lotpelilsp&tis of carp. Carp /'am.*—Scale a fine soft reed carp ; split it up the back ; take out the flesh without injuring the skin, and without touching the back bone; chop up this flesh with that of an eel, very small; season it with fresh butter, sweet herbs, thyme, mushrooms, cloves, grated nutmeg, add also some of the roe ; put this Jarce into the carp; then sew it up; put it into a stewpan, with some butter roux, white wine, and some clear puree; baste it ail over with fresh but- ter worked with flour, and chopped parsley; bake it in the oven; serve it, garnished with the roux and fried mush- rooms. Carp Farci, Baked.—Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillets, without injuring the head. Take this flesh, and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner; take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar, with an equal quantity of the flesh of the carp, nearly as much fresh butter, with a little chopped parsley, a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these in- gredients have been pounded in a mor- tar, add a coupie of eggs, and continue pounding for a long time, then take a little, and throw into boiling water, and taste. If it be too delicate, which means too thin, add one egg more, pound it again, and then rub it through the sieve 'a quenelles; and fill up the cavities in the fillets ol the carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next, let it be done tho- roughly in the oven, and serve it, with caper sauce under it. Carp Fillets with Lemon.*—Cut some middling sized carp into fillets, and stew them with some fish gravy for half an hour; place them upon a dish, reduce some sauce, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon; let it Iwil for a quarter of an hour, and then pour it boiling over your fillets, and serve. Carps (Florendine of). — Take the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and three quarters of a pound of butter, and work them up in a quarter of a peck of flour ; dry it, add as much water as will make it into a paste, make it up as near as you can in the form of the fish. Scale a carp alive, scrap oil' the slime, draw it, sea- son it lightly with salt, pepper, and nut- meg, put the milt into the belly, lay it into the pyc ; then lay on it dates sliced in halves, barberries, raisins, orange and lemon, cut in slices, and butter, close it up, bake it: when it is .almost baked, liquor it with butter, claiet, white wine,