RAB { 431 ) R AB |j inace, cay6niiP> salt, and allspice, all in 8 very fine powder, and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely to- gether as possible. Make tlie top as smooth as you can. Keep out tlie heads i and carcasses, but take off' the meat about 1 the neck. Put plenty of butter, and let the whole bake gently. Let it reniain in the pan for two days, then put it into ! small pots, adding butter. The livers should also be put in. Rabbit Preserved*—Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; season it well iilside and out, roll it up, ; beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it. Put it into astewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these on the fire till done enough (but without boiling). When sufficiently cooked, lake out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles ; fill them with oil and cover with wet bladders. When re- (juired for table, take them out, cut them 11 into fillets, and place on a dish with shred I: parsley and oil. ; Rabbits (Pulled).— Half boil your I rabbits, with an onion, a little whole I pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece j of lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes ; ut to it a little ol the liquor, a bit of utter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nut- ,1 meg, chopped parsley, and the liver I boiled and bruised ; boil this up, shaking I it round, and seive. I Rabbit, Quenelles of.*—Take the fil- I lets and legs of rabbits, separate the [ meat from the skin and sinews, pound it I thoroughly, and ruh it ihrinigh a-guenelle I sieve ; take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded sepa- rately, and passed thiough a quenelle I sieve ; then pound all three together, in ■ a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding; add, occasionally, three yolks, and two whole eggs ; when suffi- ciently pounded, make up a ball of it, put it into a saucepan to try if it be pro- I perly seasoned. Whip three whites of I eggs to a very firm froth, stir it inio the I farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the ! pestle, and finisi: as usual. I Rabbit Quenelles en Terrine.*—Make 1 your farce, as usual, except that a smaller quantity of butter should be used, poach them in halls, drain them, and lard each carefully with truffles.cut in small slips ; when larded, put them into a stewpan, with cock's-coinbs and kidneys, two small veal nuts, lamb’s sweetbreads ; put into another stewpan trto ladleslul of veloute., one ol fumet of game, halt a ' bottle of madeira, and some chainpignons, i previously fried lightly in a little water, and the juice of a lemon ; reduce this I I I sauce to half, then take out the cham- pignons, and put them to \\vi qtienelles, &c.; make a liaison with four yolks of eggs and an ounce of butter, stir it over the fire, but do not let it boil; then strain the sauce over tlie quenelles, make the whole hot together, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Rabbits to Roast.—They may be roasted with stuffing, and gravy, the same as hare. Serve with sauce made of the liver and parsley, chopped, in melted butter, pepper, and salt. Rabbit Salad.—Take some crumb of bread and cut it into small pieces, the same as you cut bacon for larding ; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it; take the remains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon the fried bread ; add two anchovies, cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions, boiled ; the whole taste- fully intermixed ; season with salt, coarse pepper, oil, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed{upon tlie table. Rabbits Legs au Soldi.*—Bone the legs, and lard them very closely with bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded spice ; warm some butter in a pan, put in the legs, and fry them lightly over a very hot stove ; then add a dessert spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, two of veloute,^ bay-leaf, some champignons, half a bottle of white wine, and a bunch of parsley and scallions ; set it on a fierce fire, to reduce the liquor ; skim it well, and when done and sufficiently reduced, take out the rabbit legs, and set them to cool, stir the yolks of five eggs, and a small piece of butter into the sauce, and pour it over the legs. When cold, dip them in bread crumbs, and let them thorouglily imbibe the sauce alternately. Beat up five eggs with a little salt, and pepper, dip the legs in, bread them all over, and give them a good form; fry them in a very hot pan to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Rabbit Sok/).’*’—Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them into a quart of water; boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar, ns for potting ; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to your taste ; stir it into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a very little cream. N. B. The meat ol the whole rabl'it is too much for one quart; query, would it not be enough for two ? Kaubits, en S'/rprisc—-Roast a couple of young rabbits, cut ll.eir heads oil veiy close to the shoulders; take off' all the I