S AU 447 ) S A U and chervil shred small, with three table- spoonsful of Florence oil; putting in, however, a little at a time; when per- fectly smooth, add also, by degrees, a glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. This sauce cannot be mixed too much. Sauce Languedocieiine."—Put a bit of butter rolled in flour into a saucepan with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic bruised, a glass of cream, and half aglass of olive oil ; set it on the fire, and when the whole is dissolved and incorporated, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon- juice ; let itsimmer till of a good consist- ence. . Sauce d la Madelaine. — Put a few bread-crumbs, two shred shalots, a bit of butter, half a spoonful of vinegar, and two spoonsful of consommU into a stewpan; set them on the fire, and give them a boil UD together; season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be too thick. Sauce, Minced.*—Put into a saucepan parsley, shalots, and champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a little pepper; set these on the'fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladiesful of espag- nole, and the same of stock, reduce, and take the fat from the sauce ; when done, put in a spoonful of capers, and two or three gherkins, both shred ; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain- marie ; just before it is sent to table, Eound an anchovy or two with a little utter, which beat up with the sauce. Sauce a, la d’ Orleans.*—Put into a saucepan three or four tea-spoonsful of vinegar, a little pepper, some shalot, and an ounce of butter; reduce this, and add four or five ladiesful of brown sauce. When ready for table, put into your sauce four or five gherkins, the whites of three hard eggs, four or five anchovies, a carrot (all cut into dice), and a spoonful of whole capers ; make it quite hot, but not boiling, and serve. Sauce Piquante.*—Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, some allspice, a pinch of pepper, a bay-leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire till reduced to half, then add tvvo ladiesful of espugnole.^ and two of stock ; set it on the fire again; when about the consistence of clear bouiltie, it is sulfi- ciently done. Put salt according to taste. Sauce, Pluche.*—Put into a saucepan, four or five ladlesful of veloute, half a glass of white wine, a parsley-root cut into small pieces, and season with pep- per ; set it on the fire, and when suffi- ciently reduced, add some parsley-leaves bruised and blanched in salt and water; serve almost immediately. Sauce a la Portagaisa.*—^\x\, iqto a saucepan aquai’terofa pound of butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, according to taste; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till hot; then vannez it rapidly to unite the butter and eggs. Should it be too thick, put a very little water to it. This sauce ought not to be made till just as it is wanted. Sauce aw Reverend.—Chop up some lemon-peel, and two or three pickled cucumbers; put them into a stewpan with two spoonsful of cullis, a little butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pepper, put it on the fire, and make it quite hot without boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Robert.*—C\.\t a few onions info dice, which put into a frying-pan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly ; when nicely browned, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper; reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready, for table, stir in two dessert-spoonsful of mustard. Sauce Cuta poundof veal, and half a pound of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with two legs of fowl, three or four carrots, four onions, two bay-leaves, three cloves, a little basil, half a pound of butter, and some salt; set these on a rather brisk fire; in the meanwhile pound the yolks of twelve hard eggs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted, then pour in by degrees a quart of cream : set the saucepan again on the fire for an hour and a half, stirring all the time, if it be too thick, add more cream, or milk; when suiliciently done, strain it through a bolting. Sauce (Sicilian).—Put into a stewpan nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, half a lemon, peeled, and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds and four cloves (the two latter bruised); set these on the fire, give one boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery^, sliced, two bay-leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to halfj pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not suiliciently thick, add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Sauce (Spariisli).—Take the meat from a cold roasted partridge, put it into a mortar, with partridge livers, and truf- fles, pound them to a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy. Put two glasses of red wine, two or three slices of onions, a clove or two of garlic, and two glasses of the paste; make it quite hot, and then strain it into another stewpan; add the partridge to it, and a 2 Q 2