F I L ( 240 ) F I S of a pound of filberts, and put them into a preserving-pan, over a moderate fire, to colour them li(?htly; when quite cold, pound them with a little white of egg, to prevent their oiling; then mix thcHi with six ounces of powder sugar, four eggs, and a grain of salt: when well amalgamated, add two ounces of melted fresh butter, and fill your moulds, pre- pared as for other7uir(ilo?iii; cover them with very fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Filbert Nougats, with whipped Cream.*—Peel half a pound of filberts, and chop them, not very small, and put them into the oven to colour them : then boil a quarter of a pound of powder sugar to a clear reddish colour; mix the filberts with it, and pour into moulds, of what- ever form you may think proper; plain ones are, however, the best: then smooth and press the filberts within, so that they may take the form of the mould per- fectly; and when wanted for table, put in each a little whipped cream, flavoured to your fancy: serve them turned over, that the cream may not be visible. These quantities, with eight spoonsful of cream, mixed with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the aromatic ingre- dients, will make about twenty or twenty- four small nougats. Filberts, Petits Gateaux Rogaux.*— Peel and pound two ounces of filberts to a fine paste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with six ounces of sifted sugar, and the white of an egg; thepetitsgateaux are made in the same manner aspetits gateaux royanx of al- monds ; put the above preparation on them, and finish them as directed. Filbert Pralhies (burnt) Red.—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them, put the kernels into a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to ro.ast, have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it cnmesalmost to caramel; put a little cochineal into a cup, when the sugar is boiled, add to it the cochineal and the filberts, and stir them with a large wooden spoon, till you find the su- gar has got hard round them ; put them in a sieve, and separate tliose which stick together; have another pan with syrup in, and noil it as before, and ns high ; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before,as doing them a second time they will become a mucli finer colour; then put them into a box. Filbert Having peeled half a pound of filberts, put them into a pre- serving pan over a moderate fire, and stT them constantly with a spatula until they become equally coloured of alight yellow : then set them to cool. When cold, pound them with a little white of egg to a paste ; then mix them with half a pound of flour, the same of powder sugar, and the yolks of four or five eggs, and then finish the operation as directed for almond rolls. Dorez, and trace on tile surface an ear of wheat, or any thing else, with the point of a knife: take care to dry them well in the baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse powder sugar may also be strewed over, before they are put in the oven. Filbert, Small fVufers.* — Take a quarter of a pound of the preparation used for spoon-biscuit--, and spread it over a well-buttered baking plate, with a knife, taking care to keep.it of an equal thickness all over; peel a quarter of a poundlof filberts,’cut them into thin slips, and mix them ivith two ounces of pow- der sugar, and a very little white oi egg; strew this over the. above preparation, and bake it in a moderate oven ; finish in the usual manner. FIRMITY.— I’o a quart of ready- boiled wheat, put by degrees, two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly; and then add four ounces of currants, picked clean, and well washed ; stir them and boil them till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk; add this to the wheat, stir them together while over the fire; then sw-eeten and serve in a deep dish, either cold or warm, according to taste. FISH (Observations on).—There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish ; if their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, they are stale. The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely necessary for cleaning, as by perpetual watei ing, the flavour is diminished. When clean, if the fish is to be boiled, some salt, and a little vine- gar should be put into the water, to give it firmness. Care should be taken to boil the fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, whiting, and haddock are much better for being a little s.alted, and kept for a day. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-water fi-h. which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it ha.s been thoroughly cleaned in strong .salt and water ; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. Care should be t.aken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do