TAR TEA ( 46a ) ^ good stock, simmer for about an hour; ) then put in a little shred tarragon leaves, ) two or three slices of Seville-orange, > salt, pepper, and nutmeg; in a quarter 1 of an hour’s time strain ir. Tarragon S««ce.*—Cut some tarra- gon leaves into squares, or lozenges, and 1 scald them ; put some consomme or ve- > louti ; set it on the coiner of the stove, J take ott' all tlie fat, make the sauce boil, 1 throw in the leaves, add a small quantity ij of vinegar, and some butter, and serve. I Tarragon Vinegar*—Take some tar- 1 ragon. dry it in the sun, and then put it ! into ajar, which fill with vinegar; let it i infuse for a fortnight, then draw it oft, i! express all the liquid from the dregs, t and filter the whole; bottle it; cork them -) well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTE Royale Take half : a pound of sweet almonds, and having ’ blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a I marble mortar to a very fine paste, add J to it a pound of broken sugar, a pound of j fresh butter, and the grated rind of two f lemons, beat it well as each ingredient is J put in; lay about sixteen or eighteen I ounces of sifted flour on the slab, place f the almond-paste on it, and knead them I well together. Divide this into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an t inch in thickness; from these cut from I twelve to sixteen circular layers, the L largest about seven inches in diameter, t the rest, each somewhat smaller than the )] other; wlien all are cut, place thein on n white paper on tins, and bake them in a t moderate oven to a clear brown, then t take them out, and let them cool. As I soon as cold, place the largest piece on a ^ china dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay 1] flat, and spread over it equally some pre- ij served fruit; cover this with the second si sized layer, on which also spread pre- :j served fruit; then a third layer, and so I on until all the paste is used, taking care t to put each layer in its proper order, so i| that the whole may form a cone, and that 'I between every one must be a different ! kind of preserve ; when done, glaze, and i ornament it as follows ; cut some candied I lemon, and orange-peel into the form of [ leaves, which arrange in garlands round r the tart, putting here and there a small [ preserved fruit; when done, replace it in t the oven for two or three minutes to dry, I and then serve. TARTLETS.— Butter some small f tartlet pans ; line them with a nice thin i; puff-paste, mark it neatly round the >: edges, bake them ; when they are cold, I fill them with custard, preserve, or any f sweetmeat you think proper, and if you » choose, pour custard over. Tartlets.—Cover with a thin short paste two or three dozen small tartlet pans, then put into them any preserve or sweetmeat you think proper ; then shred some paste very fine, and neatly cross them over; there are moulds for this purpose, which do them much neater and more quickly ; when they are all done, egg them, lay them on a baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven. TEA Cream.—Infuse an ounee of the beat green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, simmer it live minutes, then strain it through a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar ; pour this whilst hot to the milk, stirthein together well; put in as much clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the cream into the mould, or glasses; place them on ice; when perfectly cold, turn it out of the mould, or serve in the glasses. Tea Cream.* — Boil two drachms (or more) of good green tea in a quart of milk; in a few minutes strain it; add three yolks of eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; set it on the fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it again ; when cold, serve it. Tea Ice.*—Take two drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the in- fusion is sufficiently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix the cream with the eggs and sugar as direct- ed. (See Ice Cream). TEAL d la Batetiere. * — Take the Ieg=, fillets, and rumps of some teal, cut the fillets lengthwise in three pieces, put them all into a stewpan with a bit of but- ter, some chopped shalots, and parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; set it on a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, then add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir, till it boils; if the sauce be too thin, add half a glass more wine. Stir in the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel, two or three ladiesful of stock, just before serving. Teal Roasted.—They should be taken up with the gravy in ; whilst doing, baste them well with butter; and then before being taken up with a little salt, pour a good gravy over them, and serve shalot sauce in a boat. Teal Tioosferf.*—Shred a little lemon- peel, and mix it with a bit of blitter, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; stuft'your birds with this, cover them first with slices of lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up securely, fasten them to the spit, and roast them. When done, let the butler tun out, remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve them with a sauce made as