C H I ( 1 To truss them, en ptmle, for the Frencli dishes, make a Isole above the joint of the leg, and put the claws into the body. A string fastened across the back, from the head to the point of the skewers, will enectually preserve the chicken in its proper form. Chickens, d l'j4nglaise.*—Truss and roast them till three parts dotie, and be- lore they are coloured, dish them up. Pour on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlick, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. Chickens, Artificial.—Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens, or some veal or lamb, apiece of fat bacon, a shalot (all minced very small), parsley, also chopped, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird ; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, place them on buttered tins, and bake them. Serve either with or without gravy. Chickens, a la Bellevue.—Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ra- gofit made as follows:—Boil some small onions in stock, till about three parts done; then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truflles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and sea- son with pepper and salt, for about half an hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add shalots and parsley: over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done, wipe off (he fat and serve with sauce d la Bellevue. Chickens au Blanc-mange. — Boil a pint of cream with a bay-leaf and a little coriander for a short time ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten; when well strained, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a little cream, and put them to the former; place it on the fire again, and keep stirring; mix in by degrees, the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc-mange fill two chickens boned, and sew them up ; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done, prick them that the fat may drain out, wipe, and serve them with sauce d la Rcine. Chicken {Blanquette of).d la Turque. —Cut a cold roasted chicken into scol- lops ; place some rice, boiled in comommi and hichamelle., into a dish en buisson, lay the scollops, en 7niroion, to the top of it; keep it hot, and when ready to serve. 0 ) CHI cover it with sauce d blanquette, or d W- cltamelle. Chickens to Boil.—Put the chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one twenty minutes. Another tray.—When they are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in skim milkforabout two hours; then put them into cold water, cover them close, and set them over a slow fire, and skim them well. As soon as they have boiled slowly, take them from the fire, and let them remain in the water close cover- ed for half an hour; then drain and serve with white sauce. Chickens d la Bricoliere.—Take out all the bones, except those of the legs, which must be trussed over the breast, something in the form of a chainnan’s strap ; give them a few turns over the fire, in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Then put them and the butter and lemon into a pan with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlick, thyme, bay-leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. When these have stewed together a quarter of an hour, put in a glass of wine and finish; skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cullis, and serve it on the chickens. Chicken, Broiled.—Split it down the back, pepper, salt, and broil it. Serve it with white mushroom sauce, or melted butter with pickled mushrooms. Another xoay.—Split a couple of chick- ens, take out the inside and back-bones, beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in clarified butter, and broil them, the inside next the fire (which should be of charcoal), and only turn them to co- lour them. When done, pour on them a sauce made as follows:—Boil some stewed mushrooms with beef stock and plain sauce, an equal quantity of each,' until of a proper consistence ; flavour it with lemon-juice and cayenne-pepper. Chicken Broth.—Take the remaining parts of a chicken from which panada lias been madej all but the rump ; skin, and put them into the water it w,-i8 first boiled in, with the addition of a little mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and simmer it. When of a good flavour, put to it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it in a little while, and when cold, take off the fat. Chicken Broth, Beeforo/.*—Prepare a chicken in the usual w.ay, and put it into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, two ounces of pearl barley, the same of rice, and two ounces of the