C I N 169 ) C I N nil night; the next morning take notice whether the cinnamon be well coagu- lated; turn the mould upside down, and set it in the stove again, with a plate underneath ; and when it is tliorouglily drained, take out your sticks of cinna- mon, loosening them, by little and little, gently; then lay them upon a sieve, set in the stove, and dry them tliorouglily. Cinnamon, Conserve o/.*—Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it with a little clarified sugar, or syrup of mallows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit casse, throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, and then take it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to wliiten, pour the conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. Cinnamon (Dragees or Sugared)*— Soak a quarter of a pound of the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hours in water to soften it; at the end of that tinie, cut it into slips, lay’ them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the degree grand perle ; have ready a quan- tity of fine powder, and proceed in the same manner as in Almond Dru- gies, until the cinnamon sticks are of the proper thickness : those which are to be twisted or curled, should not be so thick as the others. Be equally parti- cular in removing the sugar, that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in making Almond Dragees. Cinnamon Dragees (Common).*—In- fuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, in as much water as will cover it; the next day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir it well with a pestle, and the longer it is stirred the whiter it becomes; in rathe? more than a quarter of an hour, add to i‘. the caked sugar which was re- moved from the preserving-pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder-sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees two or three pounds of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water; when the paste is of a proper consistence, place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and then cut it into slips of the same size as the cinnamon (see above), put them on paper or a sieve in a warm place forsomedays. Then boil somecommon sugar to perle., and sugar the slips of paste as above directed ; instead of the fine powder, flour is sullicient, until the last two layers, when the powder may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size, lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled, and coloured, whicli is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, fine sugared cinnamon is al- ways white. Cinnamon (Essenceof).—This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rectified spirits of wine, in the propor- tion of half a drachm of the former to an ounce of the latter. Cinnamon, Put two ounces of fine cinnamon, the rinds of two lemons, and an ounce of stick-liquorice, beaten, into two quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water, cover it close, and when it has stood for some days, distil it. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add to it your liqueur, and strain it. Cinnamon lee.—Infuse some cinna- mon in hot water for an hour, and give it a boil; add to the infusion a pint of wa- ter and half a pound of sugar; stir them well together, and then put it into the sabotiere, and surround it with ice and salt; stir it with a flat pewter spoon, till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. Cinnamon, Parfait Amour.—For four bottles of brandy, you must take four ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, thirteen coriander-seeds, a little salt, mixed together in brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take from thestillas much as you can; two pounds of sugar clarified in two bot- tles and a half of water, with the whites of two or three eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting-paper; after you have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles vvell. Cinnamon Dissolve half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, and strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence ; form into such figures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. Ci.nnamon Pastils.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum-dragon for every pound you use, into a pan, to be dissolved in a little water; when it has stood for two or three days, stir it with a spoon and strain it; put it into a mortar with the whites of a couple of eggs, and some finely sifted cinnamon-powder; sift powdered sugar into it by little, and little, temper all till the paste becomes pliable. Make your pastils in what shapes yon please, and dry them in a stove. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.*—Take a pound ot marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife ; add to tlii.s, a