V E A ( 492 ) V E A then put in the sweetbreads, and half a glass of good stock. Cut some Gruydre cheese into thin slices, lay them on a disli, and pour on them a little veal gravy, previously mixed with the yolks of two eggs ; place the dish over a mode- rate fire, that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed, pour on it the sweetbreads with their sauce, brown it with the salamander, and serve very hot. Veal Sweetbreads {Coquilles of).* — Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings; put two large ladiesful of allemande, and a bit of glaze into a saucepan; when it boils, put in the sneetbreads. and cham- pignons, some butter, parsley, and le- mon-juice; give them a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells, cover them with grated bread, and Par- mesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Veal Sweetbreads with Cullis.—Well scald the sweetbreads, and trim them, put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of good' eonsommi., a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two spoonsful of spices, a glass of white wine, a slice of ham, pepper, and salt; when they are done, skim the sauce, sift it through a sieve, and reduce it to a moderate consis- tence, adding a small quantity of parsley chopped fine, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve it over the sweetbreads. The lemon-juice mustbe omitted if the wine makes it sufficiently sharp or relishing, which is the cjise for some palates. ■Veal Sioeetbread d la Duchesse.— Scald it, then lard it; put into the middle a litile farce called salpicon, made with mushrooms, truffles, or fat liver ; sew it up, and boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce to a glaze, and serve with a wine sauce, orange, or any other. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a \ea\ frica71deaH. Veal Sweetbreads Fried.—Cut them in long slices, and with a feather do them fill over with yolk of egg; make a season- ing of pepper, salt, and grated bread ; do them over with this, and fry them in butter; serve with butter sauce, with a little ketchup mixedin, or with gravy, or lemon-sauce. ■Veal Siueetbrcads {Garniture of).*— Scald the sweetbreads, and put them into a stewpan on two rashers of bacon, lay another over them, add a little clarified butter, carrots, onions, bay-leaf, two cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole; put in some salt, and stew the sweetbreads for three quar- ters of an hour. When done, cut them in pieces to use when directed. Veal Sweetbreads Claccs*—Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads, soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in nearly boiling water; take them out, drain, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay-leaves ; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour. Take care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other arti- cle of the same kind. Veal Stoeetbreads like Hedgehogs.— Scald the sweetbreads, and lard them with ham, and truffles, cut in small lar- dons, and fried for a short lime in butter (lard them so that the laidons may stick out a little to give the appearance of bristles]): simmer the sweetbread thus larded in the same butter the lardons were fried in, with stock, a glass of white wine, seasoned with a little salt, and pep- per; when done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve this over the sweetbreads. Veal Siueetbreads Larded. — Parboil two or three sweetbreads; when they are cold, lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side with bits of lemon-peel, and beyond that, with a little pickled cucumber cut very small; stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thickened with a little flour, add mush- room powder, cayenne, salt, if necessary, and a little lemon-juice. Veal Sweetbread Pie. — (See Sweet- bread under the letter S.) Veal Stoeetbreads Roasted.—Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three minutes in a stewpan of water, with a little salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take them out, and put them into a basin of cold water till cool; have an egg beat up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter, run a skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten them on the spit; egg them all over, sh.ake some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clarifi- ed butter over, and then bread crumbs again ; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a disk over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small'bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon-juice; let it be hot, but not boiling, and thoroughly well mixed before it is served under the sweet- breads. Veal Sweetbreads {Saute af).*—VTe- pare scald, and rir.ain the sweetbreads ; when cold, cut them into slices about half an inch thick; put some claiificd butter into a tossing-pan, season the slices with