292 ) J A C IT A anil cut it into chops; season them with pepper, salt, a little mushroom-powder, and beaten mace. Put them into a stew- pan, add a large onion sliced, some par- sley and thyme tied in a bunch, and a pint of veal broth. Simmer the chops till tl’.ree parts done, then add some whole potatoes peeled, and let them stew till done. Serve it up in a deep dish. The parsley and tliyme must be taken out when the stew is to be served up. Isinglass to Clarify.—Take about two ounces of the best and clearest sort of jsinglass for a quart mould of jelly, put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient quan- tity of cold water to completely cover it; set it by the stove, with a spoon in it, to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently, and well reduce, only be careful not to re- duce it too much, as it will burn, and, of course, get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly; when you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a ba?on, ready for use. Isinglass, to Clarify.*—Take an ounce and quarter of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them seVeral times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving pan, with five glasses of fillerea water, set it on the fire, and, as soon as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling; take off the scuin directly it rises ; and when the whole is reduced to three quarters, strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, in clarifying isinglass, lemon-peel, to remove its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass ought to have no flavour, and as the lemon-peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, it is much better left out. Isinglass Flummery.—Put six ounces of isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring one way all the time, till it is jellied ; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out; you may put in orange flower water if you like. Isinglass Jelly.—Take an ounce of isinglass, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a quart of water; boil it till reduced to a pint, then strain jt over some sugar. Italienne.*—Put into a saucepan a spoonful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shalots, the same of mushrooms (both minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and an ounce, of butter; boil these till no moisture remains, then put in two ladlcs- ful of veli'Uti, and one of consomim'.. set it to boil, taking care to skim off all the fat; when you find it about the consis- tence of clear broth, take it from the fire. put it into another vessel, and keepit hot in the buvi marie. Italienne, with Truffles.—Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with tlie brown Italian sauce. If you happen to have no Italienne ready, stew them for half an hour in an espagmle only. Keep this sauce thin and highly seasoned. J JACK or Pike {to choose).—If the fish is fresh, the gills will be red, the fish stiff', and the eyes bright: the best sort are caught in rivers, the worst are cauuht in ponds; it is an extremely dry fish, and very much improved by stuffing and sauce. They are not thought much of in England, hut are much esteemed in inland countries. Jack or Pike.*—If you wish to serve it as a principal dish, do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil in court-bouillon. If as a side dish, it is dressed many ways; as for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook It in court-bouillon ; when done, and you are ready to serve, lake off the scales, and dish it for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricasseed like chickens ; in th'is case, cut it into pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushr. oms; turn it a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew it over a brisk fire; when done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up in cream. It may also be dressed matelote; or it may be fried, being first steeped iu a marinade. Jack or Pike (Small), a VAllemande. —Draw them, and cut them into pieces, and put them in a saucepan, with some slices of onion, whole parsley, two bay- leaves, some leeks, whole, two cloves, salt, coarse pepper, and a bottle of while wine. Having simmered half an hour, take them off the fire, scale them, cut off tlie fins, and put the slices into a sauce- pan. Then strain some court-bouillon through a silken sieve, pour it over the fish, and keep them hot. AViien you wish to serve, drain the slices of fish, and arrange them on the dish. Put a good piece of butter into a saucepan, with a full spoonful of flour, some grated nut- meg, coarse pepper, and half a glass of court-bouillon ; turn this sauce over the fire till it boils; then add the yolks of