BEE BEE 58 some rump steaks, stew them witli some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet lierbs, an anelinvy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon peel, and two tor three cloves; cover them tdose ; when tender, take them out. Hour them pretty well, fry them, pour off' the fat, strain the liquor that they were stewed in, put it to the steaks, with catsup or mushroom p )wder and liquor, oysters and their liquor, lemon-juice; simmer this up; garnish with [lickles. Beef Steak Pie. — Take some fine rump steaks, beat them with a rolling- pin, then season them with pepper and salt according to taste. Make a good crust, lay in youi' steaks, fill your dish, then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Puton the crust, and bake it well. Beef S'eak Pie.—Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, flour and season with pepper and salt; when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish, with pufjFpaste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Beef Steak Pie raised.—Take rump steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, pass them with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and shalots chopped, and when half done, put them in a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and preserve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, some oysters upon it, and so, alternately; cover the pie, ornament, and bake it. When done, put into it a good culiis, with tlie oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, anti serve it. Steaks with oysters may be done the same way, put into a deep dish, and co- vered witli puff"paste. Beef Steak Pudding. — Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, season them, and roll them with fat between; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks; cover the basin with a paste, atid pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover witli a cloth tied close, and let the pud- ding boil slowly, but for a length ol time. Beef Steak Pudding.—Take flour, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and one egg, and mi.x them well toge- tlier. Koll out the paste, of half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl v/ith it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chop- per, cut them into middling-sized pieces, reason with pepper utid salt, put them into the basin with blanclied oysters and slices of potatoes, alternately (or slices of onion); cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Hoil the pud- ding (if of a middling size^ two home, and when it is to be served up, put i.ito it a little cullisand catsup. Beef Steak Pudding, bakel.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, wbicli is much better, potatoes boiled and ma.slied tlirough a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the di.'h ; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of tlie batter over them, and bake it. Beef Steaks rolled.—Take three or four large steaks, and flat them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, some of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon,both fat and lean; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweet breads, young onions, parsley, mush- ro.ims, and truffles, the yolks 6f four eggs with a little cream; season all these very well with spice and herbs, and bash them, then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that they may be firm and of a good size ; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the lat, then slittbeui in two and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost; and serve them either with a ragout or cull is. Beef Steak Sauti au vin de Madire.* —Cut out the skin and nerves troinyour steaks, and cut them into escaloppes igales, beat them and trim them into the form of a round : melt some butter in a tossing pan, and lightly fry your stpjiks in it; when they are done of a nice ligiit colour, arrange them on a dish in lonn of a crown, drain the butter from the toss- ing-pan, and put the liquor by; tliem put a glass of Madeira into your tossing- pan, and reduce it with a little veal glaze and a little Spanish sauce, adding a little pimento butter ; when your sauce is of a nice dark colour, strain it through n sieve and serve it vvith your steaks. Beef Steaks Saaii with Olives.*— Prepare your steaks the same as for Steaks Saute au vin de Madvre; then Iry with apiece of butter or laid; when done, dress them on a di-h in form of a crown, and pour into the middle of the crown a ragoCtt of olives. Beef Steaks, a. la Servanie.—Cut the slices thin ; lav a down of sliced lard, then of steaks, line'herOs. and spices, and so on till von have done; add a gl.ass of biandy. Hnd stop the pot very weil with paste to keep the steam in ; let it simmer live or six hours, on a very slow lire. Tiicy may be served cither hot or cold.