V E A ( 484 ) V E A ia underdone with a little parsley, lemon- peel, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt; add some cream, and just sufficient quantity of gravy to moisten the meat; a little scraped ham is a great improve- ment : the above should not be warmed until the patties are baked. Veal Pie.—Take a neck, or nut, cut out of the fillet, cut it into collops, stir it over a quick fire with a bit of butter till it becomes brown ; then set it to stew with a little pepper, and in just sufficient water to cover it, until done enough ; then take it oIf the fire and let it cool. Line a dish with pulf paste, and lay in the veal, with thin slices of ham between ; add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little pepper and salt, and half of the gravy the veal has been stewed in ; put on the lid, trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon the top, egg, and bakes it, then pour in the remainder of the gravy, heated with a little butter-sauce. Veal Pfe.—Cut steaks from a loin of veal, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few pounded cloves, slice two sweetbreads, season them in the same manner ; line a dish with puff-paste, put in the veal, and sweetbreads; add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, and oysters at the top ; fill up the dish with stock, put on the cover, and bake ; when done, pour in some good gravy thickened with cream and flour. Veal Potted.—Take a pound of the lean of white veal, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, a bay-leaf, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinna- mon, and mushroom powder," a small quantity of each; a little parsley, thyme, savory, and a couple of shalots chopped fine ; stew them ten minutes, then pound them ; add a pound ef the mellow part of a boiled pickled tongue, beaten to a paste, half a pound of cold fresh butter, mix all well together with two eggs beaten; then press the mixture down tight into small pots, cover them with paper; and put them into a moderate oven ; twenty minutes will he sufficient for them to bake ; when cold, pour over them clarified butter. Veal Potted.—Take part of a knuckle or fillet of veal that has been stewed, bake it on purpose; beat it ton paste with butter, salt, white pepper, and mace pounded ; pot it, and pour clarified but- ter over. Veal Quenelles.*—They are made the same as ail others. Veal H(igoxU.*—Tdike. a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put it in a stewpan over the fire to brown, then pour in as much stock as will cover it; add an onion stuck with cloves, some salt, black pepper, whole, and a bundle of sweet herbs, ana let it stew till done ; then thicken some gravy, add a little ketchup, and serve over the veal. Veal Ragoiit u la Dourgeoise.*—Dis- solve some butter in a stewpan, brown in it two spoonsful of flour, then put ia your veal, and keep stirring it tdl the meat is firm; pour in some hot water, and continue to stir until it boils, then put in a little thyme, a couple of bay- leaves, pepper, and salt, let it boil slowly; in an hour's time add the pease, onions, champignons, carrots, or morels, accord- ing to your taste. If the ragodt is thin, make a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and serve. Veal Rolled.—Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it savoury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, and some sweet herbs ; roll it tight, sew it up, put it into a small stewpan, with the bones, and just sufficient water to cover it, some whole pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, an onion, and a little salt, and let U boil until tender; in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but is best cut in slices, dipped in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fried ; thicken some of the liquor with a little flour ; add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, ket- chup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, then lay in the veal. VBAi. Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt; when wanted for use, roil and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. Ve.kl Seme lies.*—Cut part of a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, and give them a few turns in a little butter, with a bay-leaf. Lay at the bottom of a deep .saucepan a very thin sbee of bacon, and on it one of the slicesof veal, and continue to lay them in alternately, until the whole are used, then add a glass of water and some bay- leaves; close the saucepan very tight, first putting a sheet of paper over the meat; stew it on hot ashes for four or five hours ; take care to keep the fire up to the same point all the time. Veal Stoclc.—Cut a leg of veal and some lean ham into pieces, put them into a saucepan, with a qu.art of water, some carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; stew them down till nearly done, but do not let it colour; then add a suffi- cient quantity of beef stock to cover the