VE A 485 ) V E A ingredients, and let it boil for an hour; skim oft"all the fat, and strain it; a little game stewed down with the above will greatly improve the flavour ; be particu- larly careful that it does not burn. Veal d la Villageoise.—Season some large slices of veal with pepper, salt, fine spices, parsley, and shalots; cut likewise some thin slices of ham, dip them in egg, and lay them on the slices of veal, and wrap the ham up in the veal, and let them boil with a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of stock ; when done, skim, and strain the sauce, and serve it in the dish with the veal, without adding any thing else. Veal {Breast of) Collared. — Bone a breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew over a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of parsley chopped small, a few sprigs of sweet marjorum, a little lemon-peel shred fine, and an anchovy, pounded, and mixed with a lew bread crumbs. Roll it up tight, bind it with a tape, and wrap it in a cloth ; then let it boil two hours and a half in salt and tvater, then take it out, and hang it up by one end to drain, then put it into the following pickle: a pint of salt and water, and half a pint of vinegar. Veal {Breast of) Collared.— Bone a breast of veal, and with a feather do it all over with the yolk of egg well beaten ; take some crumbs of bread, a little grat- ed nutmeg, beaten mace, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little lemon- peel cut small; strew these all over the veal; run a thick skewer into it to keep it together; roll it up tight, and bind it very close with tape ; wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it; before being taken up, take oft"the caul, sprinkle the meat with salt, and baste it with butter; it should be roasted before a brisk fire, and done of a nice brown; when it is taken up, cut it in three or four slices, lay it in a dish; have ready a boiled sweetbread, cut it in slices, and lay round the dish, (some prefer it larded), and serve a good white sauce over the veal. Veal {Breast of) Giacee.*—Cut the breast as square as possible, bone it to within two inches of the gristles, and tie down the meat, so that the joint may look very plump, and cut the soft bones be- yond the gristles. Put the breast into a large saucepan with three or four car- rots, as many onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; cover the veal with rashers of bacon, and a buttered paper; set it on a large fire to make it boil, and then lessen it, put some fire on the saucepan lid, and so leave it; when about three parts done, take out tlie car- rots, &c., and let the liquor fall to a glaze; and when quite done, turn the meat over, that the upper part may take the glaze also, then dish the joint; put two ladiesful of espagnole, and a spoonful of stock into the saucepan; detach the glaze from it over the tire, and pour the sauce over the veal. Two hours and a half are required to dress a breast of veal in this manner, Veal {Breast of) Marinaded. — Take a breast of veal, and cut it into pieces, and let it boil in some stock till three parts done ; then take it out, and mari- nade it about an hour, with two spoons- ful of vinegar, a little of the stock it was boiled in, some pepper and salt, two cloves of garlic, four of spices, sliced onions, thyme, and bay-leaf; drain it, and fry it of a good colour with parsley. Veal {Breast of) Roasted.— Breast of veal should be roasted with the caul on till almost done enough, then take it oft"; flour, and baste it. Veal {Breast of) Stewed. — Put a breast of veal into a saucepan, with a little stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, and let it stew gently until quite tender; when done, lay the meat in a dish, skim, and strain the liquor, and serve over the meat; garnish with force- meat balls. Veal {Breast of) Staffed.*—Take three quarters of a pound of fillet of veal, and a pound of udder: mince, and mix with tnem shred parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs. Cut oft" the ends of the rib bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and the ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold, then sew it up, that none of the farce may escape ; lay the veal in a brais- ing-pan between rashers of bacon; add some poele, and stock if necessary, and braise it for three hours. When done, let it drain, untie and glaze it. Put some reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze, and an ounce of butter, into the liquor ; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour it over the breast of veal. Veal {Breast of) en Surtout.*—Take a fine bre.ast of veal, bone it, take off all the skin, and lay it on a dish; make a fine farce, which spread all over the meat to the thickness of an inch ; then roll it up with two or three small pigeons, some morels, veal sweetbreads, artichoke bot- toms, &c.; cover the breast with fillets of fowl or game, and ihe farce; envelop the whole in a thick caul, wash it over with yolk of egg, cover it completely with bread crumbs, and bake it of a nice co« 2 T 3