qua ( 42G ) QUA wliite wine, and a little stock, when this is thick, and quite hot (without boiling); take it from the fire and serve. Quails, d I’Espugnole.* ~ M\n the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff them well with the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free ; truss them a good shape, and put them into a sauce- pan on slices of bacon, cover them also with slices, add apoelie, moistened with equal portions of white wine and stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain and untie the birds, place each on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and serve with a clear espagnole, with the addition of a little glaze. Quails, Gratin of*—Take the livers of ten quails, pound, and mix them with some farce cuite, a little whole pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; stuff ten quails (previously boned), with some of this, forming them as near as possible to their original shape; sew or tie them up. Mix the remainder of the farce with a ladleful of and spread it over a dish; set it on the fire a minute, and then place the quails on it, cover them with slices of bacon, and put it in a hot oven for half an hour. When done, clear away the fat, and serve with an Italienne. Q.VAH.R au Laurier*—Take eight very fresh quails ; having picked and other- wise prepared them, stuff' each with a farce made as follows:—Take the livers of the quails, some fowls’ livers, grated b.’xon, bay-leaf, and shalots (both shred small), salt, pepper, and nutmeg, weU mixed. Wrap the quails each in a piece of bacon and buttered paper, put them on a skewer, and roast them. In the mean time, put two slices of ham, and some bits of veal into a stew-pan, set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick to the bottom, add a glass of while wine, two spoonsful of consoimne, the same of reduced espagnole, a bay- leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; boil and reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and strain it. Take up the quails, remove tlie paper and bacon, place them on a dish, and lay a blanched bay-leaf be- tween each ; add a little lemon-juice, and pimento butter to your sauce, stir’ it well ; pour it into your dish, and serve. Quails « la Milanese.*—Mi.x up the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, with a bit of butter, and with this stuff eight quails; fasten the legs to the body, leav- ing the foot free ; dip each quail in some allcmamle, then cover them with equal quantities of grated bread and puimesan cheese ; put them one by one in an omelet, tiien the bread and cheese again ; fry them gently in clarified butter, aud serve with a tomata sauce. Quails, Hot Pie of.*—Make a raised crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom of it some farce cuite mixed with the livers of the quails, pounded, and some sweet herbs; take eight quails, take out the thigh bones, and hall dress them in a little butter and sweetherbs; when cold, stuff each with some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the centre with the remainder of the farce, season it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; wet the edges of the paste with water, cover the pie with a very thin crust; do it over with egg, and deco- rate it according to fancy. Put it into the oven to bake, an hour and a quarter will suffice. When done, raise the top carefully, remove the bacon,take ofl'all the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. Quails prepared as above, may also be put in croustades, made in the form of a heart, large enough to contain a quail; eight are sufficient for a dish. Quails, to IU,ast.—Truss the birds, and stuff' them with beef-suet and sweet herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with salt, pepper, aud nutmeg ; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire ; baste with salt aud water when they first begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or three shalots, and the juice of a Seville-orange into a little rich gravy ; set it ou the fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy is dis- solved, serve it with the quails. Gar- nish the dish with fried bread-crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. Quails, Stewed.—Put a little butter worked up witli flour, and a few green onions into a stewpan ; when brown, put in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay-leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew these till the quails are suf- ficiently done. Garnish your dish with cock’s-combs, artichoke-bottoms, fried bread, &c. Quails with Truffles.— Peel and cut some ti ulfies into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bacon and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four kinds of spice, and a trntne, minced small; set them on the fire seven or eight minutes; when cold, stuff some