B R E B R I 82 for fininpr wines in. A hoc, a spade, six good stiff bircli brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. The use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up witli the hands is a dangerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, in a dry spot, to hold most of the small tools, so that every thing may be at hand when wanted. Such tools as are too large for the cup- board, may be kept in tlie brew-house. Malt.—In choosing the malt, take especial care that it is not peat, or straw- dried ; and procure it of a pale colour, for they are the best of all malts, and more balsamic, also soft and smooth, and highly agreeable to the palate. Every gentleman who studies his own > interest, would do wisely to purchase the malt unground : for in grinding your own malt, you have not only the satis- faction of knowing that it is not adul- terated, but there is another advantage, for of ten bushels of malt in the grain, there will be a saving of nearly two bushels. Malts should not be ground too fine, but on the contrary, broke or made into a kind of coarse meal. Good malt is known by a simple test, namely by chewing it; for if well made, it will be nearly as sweet as sugar, de- lightful to the smell, of a mellow flavour, round body, an,d thin skin. Hops.—When hops are purchased, let them not be loose in the bags, but very tight packed, for that preserves them. Be careful that no soap or grease gets about the tubs or pails, for either will prevent the beer from working, and waste the whole. Never suffer the brewhouse to be used but for the operations belonging to the brewery, nor any of the tubs and pails for other purposes, nor suffer them to be taken from the brewhouse. Take care that tlie liquor-stands be ciuite steady, for if they rock they injure tlie beer. They should be made suffi- ciently stout, and of oak, when they will last for many years. Fine strong beer for bottling, should be six months old. Observe—never bottle in the cellar, cither wine, beer, cider, &c., but on a fine clear day. Let the bottles be well inspected, and use none but the best velvet corks; for to purchase inferior, low priced corks, is mistaken economy, as, besides other bad cflects, they will cause all liquors to taste of them. Boer, cider, and perrv, for home con- sumption, should stand in the bottles six or eighthours before they are corked. Cider and perry should have the corks wired, and packed in a bin with sand; the beer should be well corked, and packed in a bin with dry deal saw-dust. Some beers require to be wired. Bottled beer for sending a voyage, should be drawn in the bottles, and left to stand forty-eight hours to flatten, be- fore it is corked, and then wired with brass wire, cut for the purpose into pro- per lengths. As cool, fine, bottled, transparent table beer is esteemed in the heat of summer, always during that season, have some bottled ofl‘, and packed in dry deal saw-dust; the old corks will serve. It is best to use two-quart bottles (Scotch pints), and when used at table, pour it gently do-wn the side of the glass, or decant it oft’in a japan jug, to prevent much froth. It is the custom with the butler or cellarman at great houses, where the family pride themselves on the superior quality of their malt liquors, a fort- night before ale, strong, or table beer is used at the master’s dinner table, to peg a cask, or two, of each, in order to select those of the best quality and flavour (for every cask is apt to difl'er, from some hidden cause, though brewed alike;) and two or three days before it is wanted, let it be tapped, and draw oft a quart, or two, of each, which will greatly help to fine it; make use of strainer cocks, and keep the vent pegs tightin. In the summer months, however, they may be eased, particularly if the beer frets; and never neglect to have a tap-tub under each cock. By atten- tion to these rules, the butler may se- cure to his master the proud satisfaction, which has long been the boast of one of our oldest peers, in the ele^^ut hos- pitalities of his castle, of giving to his guests, a .sparkling glass of British C/ianipaii'it." BRILL.—Is dressed in the same man- ner as turbots. BRIOCHE.*—Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, wnip it in a cloth and set it by, in summer time for a quarter of an hour, and in winter for a whole hour. When it has risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, half a gl.ass of water, and nearly an ounce ot salt; knead them together with your hand thorough- ly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the size you wish to h.ave your cakes, moisten, and roll them in your