GR A 272 G R A Put two spoouRful of veloutv, and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them togeilier well, and heat them ; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well; season the sauce accerding to taste, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with builed niackarel: fennel may be added or not, at pleasure. Gooseberry Syrup. — Bruise them, with one fourth part of cherries ; sift in a cloth, and mix the juice with sugar prepared to the ninth degree (d tugrimde plume), one pound to half a pint ol juice; simmer together till the sugar is au perle. Gooseberry Tart.—You may use them either whole, or make a mar- malade of them, with a good syrup; the last way is considered the best method, as by this means you can judge easily bow sweet they are, and ought to be ; if made of marmalade, the seeds should be taken out. Gooseberries in an Open Tart, with or without Cream.—Pick and scald some young gooseberries, then, with short paste, make a tart of them the same as you would any other, and serve it cold; or it may be done thus : when the tart is cold, take oil'the top crust, and cut it in three corner shapes ; beat up nearly a pint of thick cream, and when beaten up, mix it in a little powder-sugar ; then spread it nicely over the gooseberries, and garnish it round with crust. Gooseberry Trifle.—Scald a sufficient quantity of gooseberries, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of a dish, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg; give it a scald over the lire, stirring all the time ; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and leave it to get cold; lay it over the gooseberries with a spoon, and then put on it a whip, which sliould be made the day before, as for any other trifle. Gooseberry Vinegar.—Brxiise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts of water put one quart of gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring them fre- quently; then strain them through a liair bag, and to every gallon of the liijuor add one pound of coarse sugar; stir it well togetlier; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let itstaud nine or ten months. 'I’he greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vine- **'^GRAPES, Compote o/.*—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, till it is reduced to a strong syrup; skim, and then put into it a pound of grapes, picked from the stalk", and the seeds taken out; give them a hoil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish : if there is any scum upon them, carefully wipe it on with white paper- Grapes Dried.*—T&Vt some fine mus- cadine grapes; place them on hurdles, and put them into the oven, turning them, carefully, frequently; when the grapes are quite dry, put them into a deal box. bermetically closed, lightly covering them with brown sugar and bay-leaves. Grapes, Dried in Bunches. — Take some preserved grapes. Hash them with warm water, put them on sieves, and into a hotstove, keep turning them every day, changing the sieve ; .'.when they are thoroughly liried^ijut theni into boxes. Grape Ice. — Take ripe grapes, pick them from theirstalks,p.xsa them through a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice oftfour lemons squeezed upon it; pass the whole together a second time through a sieve, then freeze it. Grape Take out the stones, then maRh the grapes with your hands, (they must be ripe) then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, and boil and finish the same as currant jelly. Use half a pound of su- gar to each pound of fruit. Grapes Pickled. — The grapes must be at their full growth, but not ripe, cut them in small bunches ; put them in a stone jar, with vine leaves between each layer of grapes, till Uiejar is full; then take as much spring-water as will cover the grapes and the leaves; .vs it heats put in as much salt as will make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg; you must use half bay-salt ajid half common- salt; when it boils, skim it; strain it through a flannel bag, and let it sUind to settle; by the time it is cold it will be quite settled; strain it a second time through a flannel-bag; then pour it into the jar. upon the grapes, which must be well covered; fill the jar with vine leaves; then lie it over with a double cloth, and set a plate upon it; let it stand for two days, then take olV the cloth, pour away the brine, and take out the letives and the grapes, and lay them between two cloths to dry; then Uke two quarts of vinegar, onequart ofspring- water, and one pound of coape sugar, boil it for a short time, and skim it very clean as it boils; let it stand till it is quite, cold ; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay some fresh vine leaves .H the bottom, between every bunch of grapes, and on the top ; then pour and strain the pickle on the grapes; fill the jar; let the