CUE CUE ( 142 ) cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put to the sugar, wlien nearly cold, brandy (in the proportion of a pint and a half to a pound of fruit); mix them together well, and pour them on the cherries. In two months time taste them, and if suf- ficiently flavoured, take out the cloves and cinnamon. Cover the Jars or bottles close. Chehries in Brandy.—Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them half a pint of clear juice, which mix with a pint of brandy and rather more than a pound of sugar, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about half away, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c., which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. Cherry Brandy {Black).—Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the same quantity of small black cherries ; let them stand for two months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be drawn oil’ and bottled. Another way.*—Choose fine sound mo- rella cherries, and having taken oft' the stalks, place them in layers in glass Jars ; strew powder-sugar between each layer, and cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them con- stantly covered. Cherry Cakes.—Cut a pound of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin ; chop preserved cherries into small piece.'", and drop them on the paste ; egg them round carefully, and turn the paste over tliem, and press them together gently. Then with a gigging-iron, cut it into halfcircles; prick and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin, in a quick oven. Cherries {to candy).—The fruit must be gathered before it is ripe; prick and stone tliem ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. Cherries enChemises.*—Choose some large ripe cherries, cut the stalks half off, beat up the white of an egg to a snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then roll it in fine sifted sugar ; then lay them, without touching each other, on a sheet of paper, and place them in a stove on a sieve till wanted. Currants in bunches, strawberries, and grapes may be done in the same manner. „ , , ,, , Cherries, Coated.—Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in fl- uid,oneof them must have the stalk on; i rain them, cut them in half, and when ; the stone is taken out, place them round j the one with the tail (which must not be 1 cut) so as to form one large cherry ; cover 1 it with fine powder-sugar, and dry it in a n stove or oven. I; Cherries (Compote of).*—Cut oIT the i| stalks of cherries about half-way. and '! throw tliem into cold water, and when i the water is well drained from them, put tliem into clarified sugar boiled to grand i perle ; let them boil up over a quick lire five or six times; then take the preserv- ing-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim. When cool, put them into potiers. Another way.*—Cut oft' the ends of the stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, with half a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar; set them upon the fire, and let them boil up two or three times; place them on a dessert plate with the stalks upward; pour the syrup over, and serve them cold. You may add raspberries or lemon-peel, if agree- able. Cherries {Conserve o/).* —Stone a pound of cherries, take the seeds from two 1 ounces of red currants, and place them i . in a silver vessel over a moderate fire, | until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. Boil a pound and a half of sugar to the degree grand casse, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins topuft'up; you may then put the conserve in paper cases. Ch erry Cordial.—Place layers ofblack cherries and powder-sugar alternately in a stone Jar that is broader at bottom than at lop, until quite full, then pour on them spirits of wine, in the proportion of half a pint to two gallons; stop it as close as pos.sible, and bury it for six months, when it may be strained and bottled. Keep it tightly corked. Cherry Custard.*—Stone and tail two pounds of ripe cherries, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of powder-sugar, and when nearly done, drain the cherries well, strain the syrup, and boil it until it begins to stick to the fingers; then pour to it a fourth part of the cherries with the Juice which oi-aincd from them, and put them on the fire till 1 the nappe forms. The custard being 1 prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), pour in the drained cherries; put it in a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour; then dorez and glaze it, and when ready for table, mask it with the rcmaini.ng cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. Cherries {Dried). — Arrange some