EGG EGG ( 230 ) of fowl and partridges,parsley, and bread soaked in cream, and pound tliese toge- ther, season them with salt and pepper, add the yolks of four eggs; spread this mixture over the bottom of a dish, and break eight eggs on it; cover them w'th bread-crumbs, set the dish over hot ashes, and salamander the top. Eggs (l la Jardiniere.*—C\it four or five large onions into pieces, and put tliern with some butter into a stewpan, set them on the fire, and when the onions are done, add a pinch of flour, a pint of milk, salt and pepper, boil this till thick, then take it from the fire, and put in ten eggs, heat them all up toge- ther, pour it into a dish for table, and finish (he cooking over a stove. Pass a salamander over the top to colour it. Eggs and Lettuce. — Scald some cab- bage lettuce, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter; season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; then set them over a gentle fire in a saucepan, with butter, and let them stew for half an hour; then skitn off'the fat, and add to them a fish cullis ; then lay them in dishes. Poach some eggs in butter, lay the eggs upon the lettuce, and serve them on plates. Eggs with Fat Livers.*—Fry a dozen pieces of bread, (each large enough to liold a poached egg) in lard, and lay them on a dish. JVlake a farce with fatlivers, sweet herbs, salt and nutmeg, put some of this on the bread, and place on each a poached egg, cover the whole with the farce bread, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve it over veal or fowl gravy. Egg Marmalade.*—Clarify a pound of sugar, keeping it rather thick; n hen cool, add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should be perfectly free from the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten ; set tliese on the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to stir until sufficiently thick; if any scum should arise, it need not he taken off', as the boiling and stirring will ellectually remove it. Orange-flower water may be added, if approved. Egg Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs until they are hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet ; then add one pound of currnnis picked and washed, (if the eggs were large you must use more currants) the |iecl of one lemon .shred vei-y line, and the juice, six spoons- ful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon,and citron candied. Makeahght paste for them. Enos « la Mode. — ff’uke a handful of bread crumbs, and simmer them in g. od fat broth, and when it is quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off" the fire; chop a good slice of bacon, previously boiled, to mix with it, and add a spoonful «f d la mode leef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, andjthe whites of six; alittle pounded coriander, pepper and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough; mix all together very well; garnish a deep stew- pan all round with slices of bacon, put the preparation into it, and bake it in the oven ; when done, turn it over gently, take off' the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour a brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. Eggs d la Mode de Portugal.—Take two large lemons, strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; add to this, a tea-spoonful of basket- salt, and two ounces of very fine sugar; set it over the fire, and w'hen it boils, break into it four eggs; stir them with a silver spoon, till they will not slick to the saucepan, which is a sign that , they ai e done enough ; pour them into a soup plate, and shake over them a little very fine sugar; heat a salamander red- hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. Eggs u la rVef^'e.*—Break ten eggs, and having separated the yolks and whiles, whip the latter as for biscuits; then add two spoonsful of powder-sugar, and a little dried orange-flower in powder. Pour a quart of milk, six ounces of pow- der-sugar, and a li:tle orange-flower, into a saucepan, and when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoonful at a time, of the white of egg; poach the latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. Then beat up the yolks, and mix them with half the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thicken ; then take itoff, lay the poached eggs in a dish, and cover them with the yolks anil milk. Eggs in Paste, fried.—Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them ; when trimmed and cold, carelully dry them in a cloth ; then prep.are a paste, the same as for rissoles, into which lay the eggs, cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot, on a n.-.pkin. Kaaaiid Ham Patties.—From the most solid part of a stale quartern l<>.af, cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness: have in readiness a tin round cutter of two inches in diameter, cut out four or live pieces, then take .a cutter, twosize.a smaller, press it nearly thn'Ugh the l.arger piecrs; then with a koifc rcinovc the bread from the circle ; have ready a large stewpan full of boihng lardJ Iry I them of a light brown colour, dram [