S T U SUE ( 461 ) moisten with oil, lemon-juice, and a bot- tle of white wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequently; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. Sturgeon, au Court-houillon.*—Take a small sturgeon, clean the inside tho- roughly, take out the gills, and remove the skin, wash it well, and drain it. Put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich eoxirt- houillon, grated bacon, or butter. It requires more seasoning than any other fish ; put therefore plenty of sweet herbs, and salt; set it on the fire, and put fire on the lid ; moisten it often ; wlien done, drain, and serve it witli an Italienne, to which add the liquor, with a bitof butter. Sturgeon, Cutlets en Pupillotes.* — Having cleaned and skinned the fish, cut it into cutlets, about an inch thick ; put B bit of butter into a pan, lay in the cut- lets, set them on the fire, and turn them. Set them to cool in fine herbs, or dur- celles, and finish like veal cutlets, en Pa- pillotes. If your dish is maigre, put pounded anchovies ; if gras, use bacon. Sturgeon, Fricandeau of.*—Take a good sized piece of sturgeon, and having removed the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon. Line a stewpan with thin slices of ham, veal, some car- rots, onions, and sweet herbs. Moisten with white wine, cover it with a buttered paper, and stew it. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, take off the fat, add three spoonsful of espagnole, re- duce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve the sturgeon on it. Sturgeon, (irillade of.*—Boil a slice of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with some slices of bacon, bay-leaves, salt, pepper, basil, and white wine. When done, let it cool, cover it with bread- crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with e,wxccpiquante. Sturgeon (Matelote o/).*—Cut a large slice of sturgeon into pieces of various sizes ; put them into a frying-pan witli a little butter, do them on both sides over a gentle fire, then take them out; and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fish for a minute, and serve all together on fried bread. Sturgeon Rousted.* — 'Ta.V.t a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a white wine marinade. Fasten it to the spit, and roast it, basting frequently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. Sturgeon in Savory Jelly.—a little aspic or savory jelly into the bottom of a mould, and ns soon as it is set, cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly accord- ing to your own taste, and put in a little jelly, j ust suflicient to cover the sturgeon; when it is thoroughly set, put in some more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould; when that is set, place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full; when it is to be turned out to serve, dip it in warm water the same as all other jellies. Sturgeon So^lp.—Take a fine piece of sturgeon,cutoif the fins, and the gristly bone inside, with the skin ; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, car- rots, onions, peppercorns, allspice, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour, then fill it up with veal consomme, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar; when well boiled ana skimmed, put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently, with a fire over and under the stewpan, till it is thoroughly well done; then take it out to cool, and strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it with ham, as directed for turtle soup; boil it in the same manner. When ready, cut the sturgeon into small squares, and put them into the soup with a few stewed oysters and mushrooms; let it boil gently for a few minutes, skim it, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add a very small quantity of cayenne, and serve ; if not sufficiently strong, reduce a little beef stock and add to it. Herbs may be added if thought proper. Sturgeon d la Venitienne. • — Take a large slice of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristles, lard it alter- nately with seasoned lardons, truffles, and anchovies ; place it in a braising-pan with bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a large glass of oil. Set the pan over a gentle fire, to simmer for two or three hours; then serve with any maigre sauce you may think proper Suet Dumplmgs.—This batter should be made the same as for suet pudding, (second recipe), but much thicker, let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of batter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well buttered; tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Suet to keep for a Tivelvemont/i. — Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins. Put it into a sauce- pan, and set it at some dislance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt without frying, or it will taste disagreea- 2 II d