( 163 ) CHO CHO one ounce of cjike chocolate. Some per- sons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon ns the milk or water begins to boil, mill it. When the chocolate is dis- solved, and begins to bubble, take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; tlien mill it again to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, un- less it is prepared with cream. Chocolate in cakes should always be made use of for ices and dragees. Chocolate.—Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire, in the proportion of two ounces to each cup; stir it about a good deal with a chocolate-mill, and when it is properly dissolved and thickened, add a yolk of an egg beat up, to the propor- tion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up, and the first froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of the chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorporate together; this will make it of a proper consistence, and of a proper froth ; it is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time, boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste.* * The F rench author says—dissolve and boil one tablette, viz., a cake or lozenge, to each cup. It is to be observed, that their chocolate is made into small cakes, which contain about twelve to a pound, and is sweetened in the making, which is commonly called Dutch chocolate in England. . Chocolate {to make either with Milk or fVater).—Divide a pound of choco- late into twelve parts; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of cho- colate ; put into a chocolate-pot an equal number of cups of water ; let your choco- late dissolve; mill it, then put your chocolate-pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowly, keeping it constantly stirring; immediately before it is served, mill it. To make chocolate with milk, you must divide your pound of chocolate into sixteen parts. Chocolate Almonds.—Take a pound of chocolate finely grated, and a pound and a half of the best sugar, finely sifted; soak some gum-dragon in orange-flower water, and work them into what form you please ; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up, and put them in the middle. Chocolate Biscuits.*—Whip to snow the whites of six eggs; mix with them as much scraped chocolate as will colour and taste them; add some powder-sugar and some fine fiourj make ^ paste ; shape your biscuits j put tnem in paper, and bake them m a gentle oven. , . Chocolate Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of ehocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove, to make it warm ; then put a pound of powdered sugar in a basin; and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs ; if you find it too thin, add some more powdered sugar, to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll into lumps the size of walnuts: let your oven be of a moderate heat: put three papers under them; let the oven just raise and make them crisp and firm ; and let them be quite cold before you take them off the paper. Chocolate Biscuits.*—Take a dozen fresh eggs, half a pound of flour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a pound and a half of powder-sugar; beat these ingredients up welt in a mortar for a quarter of an hour; then lay your bis- cuits on white paper, and bake them. Vanilla and cinnamon biscuits are made in the same way. Chocolate, Blancmange of.* — Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of good choco- late, and the same of sugar, in a glass of boiling water; extract the milk of al- monds in the usual way, and having divided it, mix with one half of the cho- colate, four drachms of isinglass, and with the other, six ounces of sugar dis- solved in a glass of warm water, and four drachms of isinglass. Proceed with the rest of the operation as in Blancmange of Cedrat. Chocolate Bonbons.*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds of sugar to fort perle, put a spoonful or two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a thin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the mean time melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off'clear into a basin; take a spoonful of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table: on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends of a sword- blade, (one in each hand),and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross them in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in small squares all over; doing it as quick as possible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done ; then pass the sword-blade between the marble .and the sugar; lay under the latter sheets of paper; and when cold, break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper.