A x\ G 13 1 A N I pounds of sugar in three pints of water; mix it with the/igtieier, strain it throu^i a jelly bag, or filter it tlirough paper. Ob- serve, tliat the best brandy for liqiicurs is that which is made at ^Montpelier, as it yields more in distillation than theCog- niac. Take notice also that the first drops which fall from the alembic after it is placed on the stove, must not be mixed with the liqueur. A glass should, there- fore, be placed under the mouth of the alembic to receive them, and when about a quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and place your bottles or mattress. The phlegm, as these droppings are called, are good for nothing. Angelica Paste.—Take young and pithy angelica stalks, boil them till ten- der, drain and press all the water out; beat them in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a seive. Next day dry it over the fire, and to every pound of paste put a pound of powder sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it till thoroughly mixed, over a gentle fire. Drop i t on plates, dust a little sugar over them, and dry them in a stove. Angelica (preserved).* — Take the stalks of angelica when of a good size,but before they have run to seed ; clear oft' the leaves, and as you cut the stalks into proper lengths throw them into water, and boil them till the stalks are soft; take them from the fire, and put them into cold water ; take off the skin, and again put them into cold water; then drain and put them into an earthen pan, and pour over a suflicient quantity of clarified sugar to float the angelica. In twenty-four hours boil the sugar ten or a dozen times, and when lukewarm pour it over the stalks. Proceed in the same way for foursucceedingdays; after which, drain the stalks, and in the meanwhile boil the sugar (adding more, if neces- sary) to the degree grande perU; put the angelica to this, cover it close, and let it boil fiv- or six times. Take it from j the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. Angelica (preserved dry).*—Proceed as for the liquid, until you have poured the sugar au grand perli over the ange- lica; leave it for a day in the sugar, then drain and dry it on elates, or iron plates, in a stove. Angelica, (Jlatafia o/).*—Take six pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three pounds of sugar, two ouncesof fresh gathered angelica roots, the same quan- tity of angelica seed ; mace and clove, a drachm of each. Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in slices, and put them, with the seeds and spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for twenty days ; then strain it, and having added to it the 4 sugar dissolved in river water, filter and bottle your ratafia. Angelica Ratafia.*—Strip the ange- lica stalks of their leaves, and cut them into small pieces, which put into the best brandy ami water, in the proportion of four litres of brandy and two of water to one pound of angelica, and four pounds of sugar to the same quantity; add cloves and cinnamon: let it stand six weeks, then filter and bottle it. Angelica Tart.—Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon peel and sugar, in suflicient water to cover them until reduced to a thin syrup, strain it, and then put it on the fire again with the angelica, for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alter- nately till full. Fill up with syrup, and bake. Angelica fVater.—Wash eight hands- ful of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them on a table to dry. When quite dry, put them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir it twice in that time, then put it into a warm still or alembic; draw off into bottles, covered with paper pricked in holes, and let them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it close. ANISE (small) Biscuits.*—Wash four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strong froth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted flour and the anise; pour this paste intoa paper case,eleven inches long by seven wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty orfiftyminutes,when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut the biscuits into whatever form you please; dry them in the oven until they become brittle. Anise, (Petites BoucMes of).*—Roll out three-quarters of a pound of puff paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it out with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter; then with a smaller paste-cutter (say the eighth of an inch less in diameter than the first), cut thirty of these rounds into rings ; collect the cuttings of your paste and proceed in the same way. Moisten the upper side of the rounds to receive the rings, which press on lightly, and as you do them, wet them again slightly. When all your rings are so far done, sprinkle them equally and lightly with sugar, out them on a baking tin, at equal