412 ) pro P I s liaving diied them tlioroughly in a stove or oven, pound tliem with wliite of egg to a very smooth paste. Beat up tlie wliites of eggs, add the sugar, and set them on hot aslies for a short lime, re- moving the pan occasionally, and stirring constantly; then add the pounded pista- chios, and wiien the whole is thorouglily incorporated, put some sheets of paper on tin plates, and lay the meringues with a spoon, half an inch apart; sprinkle very finely sifted sugar over, and bake them in a cool oven; when done, raise them from the paper with a knife, place them on sieves in a stove, to preserve them dry. Pistachio Petits Fours.*— Put into a pan half a pound of powder-sugar, half the white of a large egg, and a sufficient quantity of spinach essence strained, to tinge the glaze of a delicate green : add a few drops of essence of lemon, and beat up the whole for a few minutes, when the glaze will be tolerably firm, but smooth ; roll it in slips abofit the thickness of a litile finger; cut these into dice, which roll in the hollow of your hand, taking care to moisten them sufficiently to make their surface clear and shining; place them on a sheet of thick paper, three quarters of an inch apart, and put them in the even. Pistachio Petits Pots.*—Have ready ten small moulds; take a sufficient quan- tity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; give it a boil, and then, having blanched and pounded a quarter of a pound of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, hoil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks, and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them together, and when it has boiled once, pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. Pistachios Souffle, Frutiqaise of.*— Take half a pound of pistachios, two ounces of preserved cedrat, and two drachms of bitter almonds blanched; pound these well; infuse them_ in nine glasses of boiling milk for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then strain it through a napkin into the usual prepara- tion. Just before the whites of egys are put in, add to the whole a sufficient quantity of spinach essence, to tinge it of a delicate green ; finish .as usual. (See Muffle Frunqaise). Glaze with powder- sugar only. Pistachio 2'oi<rfe *—RIix the yolks of four eggs with some rice-llower, dried orange-llowers chopped, cream and su- gar : set these on the fire, stirring con- stantly ; in half an hour take it oil, add four ounces of pounded pistachios, and , a little preserved lemon-peel; |iut this | preparation into a raised rich pull-paste, ] and lay over it a kind of tiellis work, or | any other kind of ornament with paste, i and colour it lightly in the oven. Pistachio fVufers.*—Dilute half a I pound o{ brioche paste with half a glass j of Madeira wine, and then stir into it ' three ounces of powder-sngar, and two ounces of dry currants: spread this pre- paration over a well buttered tin to the i thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour; when done, cut it in pieces two inches square | glaze, and cover them lightly with minced pistachios. PLAICE, an excellent way to dress a large one.— Sprinkle it well with salt, and keep it for four and twenty hours; , then wash it, and wipe it dry, do it over with egg, and then with breadcrumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, with two large spoonsful of vinegar; lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, instead of putting vinegar into the pan previously, dip the fish in vine- gar. Plaice, with Dutch SaMce.—Prepare the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles, with mushrooms; when well drained from the liquor, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. Plaice d I’Espagnole.—Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must be a good strong sauce d I’espagnote, with more lemon-juice than usual; a few mushrooms added would be a great im- provement. PLOVERS, to Choose.—ChoQ&e them by the hardness of the vent, which shews that they are fat; and when new, they are limber footed. In other respects, ctioose them by the same marks as other fowls. There are three sons; the grey, green, and bastard pl.iver or lapwing. Ploveus Boiled.— They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown; or they may he roasted like any other fowl, witii good gravy in the dish. Plovers (Capilotade o/).*—Take three or four cold roasted plovers, cut them in halves, skin and trim them ; put them into a stewpan, with some Italicnne, a glass of white wine, and seasoning to the palate. Set them on the fire, and when they have simmered an hour, dish them, with slices of fried bread between. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the birds. Plovers, to Dress.— Green plovers should be uressed the same as woodcocks.