102 1 C A CAL ti-im and dish them in the form of a crown, and serve with mayonnaise, either green or white. Calf’s Bruins, cat Biveil. —Prepare and braise any number of calves’ brains; make a batter with cullis, butter, and mustard; bathe the brains in it, and strew over bread-crumbs and cheese. Colour them with a salamiinder or in the oven. Serve them on cullis and mustard. They may also be broiled slowly, and served with relishing sauce. Calf’s Brains, Salad of.*— Prepare and dress calf’s brains as for la magncm- naise; place them also en cuuronne, on a bed of lettuce,cut small and dressed as •usual; garnish each piece of the brains ■with lettuce, and arrange a border of eggs, lettuce hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serveit, pour over the brains, or into the middle of them a smccmagnonnaise a la ravigotte. Calf’s Brains toithdifferent Sauces.— Brains braised in broth and wine may be used with wliatsauce or ragohtyou please, such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, onions, capers, fried bread, &c. &c. from which they generally take the name. Calf’s Brains, au So/eff.’'’—Cleanse two calves’ brains, and stew them instock with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a clove of garlick, three cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil: when sufficiently stewed, cut each iece of the brain in two, dip them in a atter made of two handsful of flour, di- luted with a little oil, half a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in lard until the batter is crisp and the brains of a gold colour. Calf’s Chaudron, A VAllemande. — Make agratici with Swiss cheese rasped, bread-crumbs, t.vo yolks of eggs, and a little cullis; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bot- tom ; then put in a chaudron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and pre- viously mixed with sauce Robert. _ Gar- nish the dish with small onions boiled in broth, and bits of bread fried in butter; pour on it a little butter melted with a spoonlul of mustard. Strew bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in the oven; wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear relishing sauce. Calf’s Chaudron, and Anchovies.*— Melt some butter in a stcwpan, and toss up in it some small onions sliced ; add a little slock or veal broth; put into this the chaudron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. When they are flavoured, pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them six anchovies washed and split in four pieces, in the forms of crosses. Cover the whole with caul, and bake in a moderate oven. Calf’s Chaudron and Cheese.'—Toss up the chaudron with a bit of butter, and some small onions, with half a glass of stock. Cut some gruyere cheese into | thin slices, melt it, and baste with veal | gravy mixed with the yolks of two or j three eggs; pour over this the chaudron | and sauce, and brown it. : Calf’s Chaudron, fricussie.—Parboil i a cajf’s chaudron, and when cold, cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts; season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, ^ mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley, shred fine; fry them in a ladleful of good broth and fresh butter ; make a sauce of mutton gravy, orange and lemon-juice, eggs’ yolks, and grated nutmeg; toss up these ingredients with the chaudron, \ then dish it and serve. ; Calf’s Chaudron Fritters.*—Cook a I prepared chaudron with salt, parsley, j scallions, garlick, a bay-leaf, thyme, ba- sil, and two or three cloves. Whensnf- ficiently done, drain it, and clear away the fat, cut it small, and marinade it an hour in butter; two spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, sbalots (all minced), | salt, and pepper; warm the marinade, then take outthecliaudron, and roll them ii up by degrees, making the herbs, 8x. stick to them; dip them in egg, bread, | and fry them. ; Calf’s Chaudron, d la Mariniere.*— ■ When the chaudron is prepared, cut it in strips about three fingers long; soak I them instock, seasoned with salt, pepper, | cloves, and vinegar, over hot ashes; dtp them in batter made of flour, yolks of eggs, and white wine. Calf’s Chaudron Pie.—Make a ragodt with a chaudron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shalots. garlick,a glass of white wine, and cullis. When quite done, cut the chaudron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked putr crust; skim the fat off, add pepper, . salt, and lemon-juice. Calf’s Chaudron, d la Provencals.*— Soak itwellin lukewarm water to cleanse it thoroughly; boil it in stock, then cut it in pieces and let it cool. Make a sauce with good stock, two spoonsful of oil, salt, pepper, garlick, dried mushrooms cut small; do these together, and when of a proper consistence, put the chaudron in for about ten minutes. When done, add lemon-juice. I Calf’s Chaudrm Pudding.*—Prepare your chaudron, and cut into small pieces the size of a nut; season with stilt, pep- per, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork latent small; you may add some gvt/i- veau and the crumb f bread boiled iu '