( 288 ) II I P HER IIeiuunos, to Picfcle*—L&t the fish be well clemied and gutted, hut not opened ; take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg ; pound and mix these spices well; then rub a pan with an onion, strew some of the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lay flat on the bottom; then put a teyer of sliced onion, then fish, and so on alternately, till the pan be filled ; strew the pounded spice between each layer; pour the best vinegar over, so as to cover the whole; tie a brown paper over the pan, and bake till the bones are soft. Sprats and maekarel are, likewise, pickled in this way. N.B. The heads and tails must be cut ofl’. . Herrings, Pickled*—These fish are usually broiled, and served with a puree of vegetables, or butter sauce. They are, sometimes, however, used as a hms d'oeuwe, when they are cooked as follows: Take six pickled herrings, cut oil' the heads, ends of the tails, and fins; skin and soak them in equal quantities of milk and water; then drain and di.sh them with slices of onions, and apples. They are eaten with oil. Herring Pie.—?eale and clean the herrings, cut oH'thc heads, fins, and tails. Lay a crust at the bottom of a dish ; strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pound- ed) ; put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions, sliced thin ; then herrings again; add some water, and a little more butter; cover the pie, and bake it well. Herrings, Pofferf.—Cut off the heads, and lay the herrings close in an earthen- pan ; strew a little salt between each layer; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nutmeg, cut in pieces ; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little wliite wine; cover the pan close, and bake the fish : when cold, pound it, and put it by in pots in the usual way.—(See Potted Beef.) Herring-ROES {fresh), en Caisses.*— Scald, and drain the roes of twenty or thirty fresh herrings; give them a few turns over the fire, with a little butter, sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt and pep- per, but do not let them take colour: make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce, to the depth of half an inch ; oil the ease, and set it on a gridiron, over hot ashes: as soon as the gratin is formed, put in the roes, strew raspings over them : do them in a Dutch- oven before a moderate fire, a few mi- nutes is sufticient, take ofl' the fat, and serve the rocs with espagnolc, and lemon juice. Herrings (Soft Roes of), en Caisses. Make a paper case to fit the dish you in- tend to use, and spread butter over the bottom of it. Broil eight soft-roed-her- rings; when done, take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in acase. Sprinkle pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred parsley, over them; butter and bake them in a hot oven ; when done, pour a mailre d’hOtel into the case, and the juice of a lemon : serve them very hot. Herrings, Stexued. — Clean and put the herrings into a fish-kettle, with a sufficientquantity ofstock to cover them; add two or three cloves, a carrot, pepper- corns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, parsley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done, then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce tournee; then pass it thiough a tammy into another stewpan, stir in a little butter and lemon-juice, dish your her- rings, and pour this sauce over them. Herrings {Red).*—Take half a dozen red herrings, cutoff the heads and tails, split them along the back, and open them; lay them on a dish and pour nil on them; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufficient) ; take them off, and serve them instantly. Herrings {Red), ala Bruxelloise.*— Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings, prepared as follows: cut off the heads and tails, take away the bones and skins, and cut tliem lengthwise into two fillets; put between each fillet a piece of butter, mixed with siveet herbs, some musli- rooms, parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thickly with raspings, broil them slowly over a gentle fire, so as not to burn the paper, in whicli they must be served, wtiilst very' hot, with lemon- juice squeezed over them. Herrings {Red), with Herl>s.*—Take the best led herrings, skin and take off tlie heads and tails ; cut them into fillets lengthwise, and soak them in milk for four hours, then drain and put them into a saucepan with some butter, a little oil. parsley, and sweet herbs (shred small), salt, and pepper; let them simmer tor half an hour, take off the fat, and serve them liot: if the sauce be too thick, add a little orange-juice. Herrings(7fei/), a. 1'Italiemie.*—Soak the herrings to take out the salt; open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, serve them laid on fried parsley. HIPl’OCR.’tS.*—Take orc ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two penny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and