DUG ( 220 ) DUG with a knife, divide them in two, by cut- ting them down tiie middle ; beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in some good clarified butter, and lay them on the gridiron over a gentle charcoal fire. The inside must lay towards the fire till nearly done; then turn them on the other side; let them be of a nice brown colour ; and whilst they are broiling, every now and then, sprinkle pepper and salt over them; when done, lay them on the dish, and pour mushroom sauce over them. Duck loith Olives*—Prepare and dress your duck as in Poe.le ; take the meat of the olives from the stone, like a cork- screw, being careful not to break it, that it may_return to its proper form; throw them into hot water, and give thena a boil, or put them into a saucepan with four spoonsful of espagnole, twice as much conso7nme, and a little pepper; reduce this to a third, over a fierce tire ; put it to the duck, and keep it hot in the ham-marie. Ducks, witk Oysters. — Take wild ducks, truss them, make a ragofit with veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, and oysters, seasoned with fine herbs and parsley; when it is almost done, farce the ducks with it; tie them up well, and roast them ; serve them very hot, with a mushroom cullis poured all over. Ducks, with young Pease.—Well roast two ducks, then neatly cut them up all but the back bone, and put them in a Btewpan with young pease, that have been well stewed in plenty of cream sauce ; shake in a liaison of the yolks of two eggs, with a little cream, and serve them in a tureen or a dish, with a good border of paste. Duck Ph'e Douillet.* — Take a duck, and put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, with a bunch of par- sley and green onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, basil, some cloves, some coriander-seeds, sliced onions, a carrot, a parsnip, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, and one glass of white wine; then reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve it over the duck. Ducks au Pure Douillet.*—Lard a couple of young ducks, and till them with &farce made as follows;—chop up the meat of a fowl, the two livers ol the ducks, two sausages, a little ham, and five or six truffles, previously beilcd in red wine ; mix these with the yolks of eggs, with here and there a little sliced lemon, and a pinch of coriander-seed; fasten this in as usual, and roast them. Duck Pie.—Bona a full grown duck. and bone also a fowl; wash them, season them with pepper, salt, and a small ijuantity of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl witliinside the duck, and into the fowl pat a calf’s tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and peeled; press the whole close; the skins of the legs must be drawn inwards, that the body of the duck and fowl may be quite smooth. If you choose, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat; let it bake in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or pie-dish witn a thick crust or- namented according to taste. Duck P/e.—Scald a couple of ducks, and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, and scald them. I’ick out the fat of the inside, lay a good pufl-pasie crust all over the dish, season the ducks both inside and out, with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish, with the giblets at each end, properly seasoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it be well baked. Duck Pie.—Prepare a couple of ducks the same as for roasting, and parboil them ; then lard them with large lardons of bacon, and the lean of ham, seasoned with pepper, salt, spice, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred small; make your paste, roll it out an inch thick, raise your pie; lay all over the bottom of it pounded bacon seasoned with salt, pep- per, spices, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred fine; then lay in the ducks, and fill up the spaces with mutton cutlets, larded and seasoned, with the above- mentioned seasoning; then strew some of the same seasoning over the ducks and cutlets, and lay thin slices of veal over the whole, and thin slice.s of bacon over the veal; then put in a piece of butter; lay the lid on the pie, and put it in the oven ; let it stand four or five hours in the oven; while it is baking, make a ra- gofU of mushrooms, truffles, cock’s- combs, livers, and sweetbreads, tossed up in a stewpan, with melted lard, moistened with gravy; let these simmer overa gentle fire for half an hour, skim oil'the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. When the pie comes out of the oven, place it in a dish, cut it open, take out the bacon and veal, take oil’ the fat that swims at the top; pour in the ragoflt, and serve the pie hot. Ducklinq Pie.—Scald two ducklings, and clean them properly, and cut them into quarters, and put them into a pic upon a good farce, with two slices^ of peeled lemon over them to keep white.