SO) B RE B RE fair hops being only necessary in the brewing of the delicate and superior ales. The hop then selected for the brewing of porter, must he stout, gross, and thick blossomed ; rich in condition, tliough it be dull in colour. A species of hop, admirably well adapt- ed for this purpose,is met with in Kent; it is the produce of the plant Humitlus Germaiiicus. Hops of this description are most proper for the purpose, because time should be given them to mellow ; and the peculiar, soft, full, bitter requi- site, will be secured to them if kept. The necessary bitter cannot be ex- tracted from the new hop. unaccom- panied by harshness and unpleasantness. Good brewers (those who brew onj a large scale) give their hops eight or even twelve months age, and then they work eight or ten pounds of hops per quarter of malt. When the wort and hops are boiling, have ready to put into the copper (for every hogshead) one pound of bruised liquorice root, cut short, a quarter of a pound of Spanish liquorice, and six pounds of coarse brown moist sugar, or the same quantity of treacle, and so in proportion for every cask. Be careful to put in these ingredients when the wort and hops are boiling, and let them gently boil for two hours, keeping the liquor well stirred from the sides and bottom, the whole time : and then strain the hops off', and put it into the coolers the same as the other beers. Put into some of the warm wort, half a pound of moist sugar, boil this in an iron pot till it becomes a black thick liquid, and then add, before it is cold, a pint of the warm porter, with a spoonful of salt of steel, and mix them well together ; this is what the porter brewers call colour, and is in quality between a bitter and sweet, which gives to the liquor that fine mel- low taste and colour usually admired in good porter. Jn six months it will be fit for use, and will have, when drawn, a fine cauliflower head. As no table beer is required from this, eight bushels of malt, and eight pounds of hops will be sufficient. Bnow.v Stout.—To brew brown stout, porter, or strong beer, to go abroad, allow ten bushels to the hogshead, and if intended fwr a hot climate, fourteen pounds of hops, good, strong, perfectly sweet, and full of seed. All malt liquor that is brewed for long voyages at sea, should be perfectly ripe and fine, before it is put on board, and should be sent in the same cask it is tunned in. A thirty-six gallon cask or barrel, is the most convenient size for ship-board. For sea voyages too, in lieu of vent-pegs, vent-nails should be pro- cured from the ironmongers, for they shift up and down of themselves, as the beer requires. After the porter is fined in the manner of the_ other beers, ,with good hops, to make it carry a fine bead, lower the hand in drawing it, some distance from the cock, and let it run down the side of the tankard, leaving lip room on the top. If private families would have good casks, and of an uniform size, none are more durable, perhaps, than the iron- bound rum puncheons, which generally hold about one hundred and twenty gal- lons, which is nearly two hogsheads, beer measure, and may be purchased of any of the great dealers in Jamaica rum, and at a reasonable price. These with care, and particularly if painted in oil colours, will last many years. If new casks be purchased, those of the bell shape are preferred. All new casks must be filled with fresh cold water, and left to stand three or four days, and then well scalded before beer is put into them. In cleaning casks, they must be washed with cold water: and nothing is more efficacious and searching, in getting the dirt out of all coolers, casks, &c. than a lump of unslacked lime flung into the water; when well soaked, they must be carefully scrubbed and cleaned with a birch broom. If the casks should happen to become musty, employ a cooper to unhead them and burn them out. As soon as a cask becomes empty, take care to stop up the bung, and vent, and cork-hole tight, which will be the means of keeping them sweet. The cocks should be taken from empty casks, and immediately clean scalded with boiling water, and put away in a dry place. The following suggestions and notices cannot fail to be useful: Hops of every quality should be kept in a dry chamber. The hops that are intended to be used when brewing, should be wetted thus ; let the tub stand under the cock of the copper, which, half turned, enables you to moisten them gradually. Theyshould be rubbed between the hands to sepa- rate them, and break the lumps. To cleanse musty casks, dissolve a pound of bay salt, and half a pound of alum in water, then .add ns much dung from a milking cow as will render k thick, but not more so than will allow it to pass through a funnel; place it on a fire, and stir it with a stick until it