( 506 ) YEL woo guire, take out the trails, and make them into a farce, with some pounded bacon, butter, sweet herbs, and anchovies; stuff your birds with this farce, and place them in a braising-pan between slices of bacon and veal; moisten with half a glass of white wine ; close the pan as tight as possible, and braise them for five hours over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over them. Woodcocks {Fillets of) en Canape.*— Take the fillets of two brace of woodcocks, put them into a tossing-pan, sprinkle Eepper and salt, and pour some melted utter over them. Then take the inside of the woodcocks, (except the gizzard), a piece of bacon the size of an egg, a little parsley, and slialot; chop these small, and mix with them pounded spice, pep- per, and salt. Take some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into pieces rather larger, but the same shape as the fillets : make a mark round each about the eighth of an inch from the edge, and fry them of a clear gold colour in butter; when done, scoop out the part marked, and put into the space thus left some of the above/aree, and either bake ^ or broil the crmtoms for a quarter of an hour; in the mean time toss up the fillets, and when ready to serve, lay one on each of the croutons, and send them to table, with a sauce made as directed for the Fillets with the addition of a bit of glaze. ■VVooDcocKS {Fillets of) d la Proven- gale.*—Prepare the fillets as directed for the Saute; season them with pepper, salt, four spices, and cover them with oil; add a clove of garlic pounded, toss them up, and then keep them hot. Put some oil also to the remains of the birds, a clove of garlic, a pinch of parsley leaves, two cloves, six shalots, and a bay-leaf; when these have had a few turns, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, three of stock, and reduce the sauce to half, take off' the fat, and strain it. Lay the fillets on a disn cn couronne, with a glazed crouton between each; put some lemon-peel, and juice, to the sauce, and pour it over. Woodcock of) Sautes.*—Take the fillets from three brace of woodcocks, cut them neady, and put them into a tossing-pan, witli salt, pepper, and a little rosemary in powder ; pour some melted butter over, ami set them on a very brisk fire, turn them as soon as one side is done, and tlo not let them be done ton much ; then drain, and lay them in a dish cn couronne, with a crouton between each fillet. Put the remnants of the birds into B stewpan, with half a glass of white wine, a bay-leaf, and a clove; sweat them down till reduced to a glaze, then add another half glass of white wine, a glass of stock, six ladiesful of espagnole, and let these reduce to half; then strain and pour it over the fillets, (which should b« kept hot), and serve. WORMWOOD Cr&me {Ligvettr).*- Distil in the bain-marie the zesics of two oranges, and half a pound of fresh gather- ed worrriwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, which will produce nearly half the quan- tity of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar in as many pints of filtered river water ; mix this syrup with the liqueur ; run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it. y. YEAST {To Make).—Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine flour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brownsugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, let it stand uncovered near the fire for a day, to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on tlie top, pour this off'; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half peck loaf you should use a quarter of a pint of the above. Yeast Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, the san»e as for bread, but with milk instead of water, add salt; set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour, or an hour, to rise; in the mean time, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the dough into small bails, and put them into the boiling water; keep them continually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out. and serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain nhether they are sufficiently boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean, it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eat- ing (Item is by dividing them from the top by t.vo forks, as they Irecome heavy by their own steam, and eat them im- mediately with meat, or sugar and but- ter, or salt. YELLOW Glaze. * — Make a glaze, with a quarter of a pound of fine sti^r in po'vder, the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), add to it a small quantity of infusion of saffron, strained, tincl tlie yellow rind of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped off