Y 3 FLU 1 ! I i ( I I ( 245 ) FOR into each cup four table spoonsful of the sujyar and flowers, and wlien cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLUMMERY. — Steep three large handfuls of very smalt white oatmeal a day and night in cold water ; then pour it off'clear; then add as much more wa- ter, and let it' stand another day and a night Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is of the consistence of hasty pudding, keeping it well stirred all the time it is boiling. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk or cream, and sugar. Flummeby Dutch.—Boil very gently for half an hour, two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water ; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as will make it sufficiently sweet; and having beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin ; stir it till it is half cold; then let it settle, and put it info a melon shape. Flummery FVemcA.—Beat an ounce of isinglass fine, put it into aquartof cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, put in a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish with currant jelly. Flummery {Oatmeal). — Boil four quarts of water; when it is rather wanner than milk from the cow, put to it two quarts of oatmeal just cracked; when it has stood till sour, pour off’ the water, wash the flour out well through a sieve, with three quarts of fresh water ; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour the water clear off’, leaving the thick ; to one cup of which measure three of milk; set it over the fire, stirring it; when it begins to curdle put it through a sieve, set the liquor again on the fire ; repeat this, passing it through the sieve so long as it cuidies ; then boil it for twenty minutes; put it into cups first dipped in watei'. If the water stands upon the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will be. Flummery {to make a Temple in).— Divide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal, steeped in French brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with anolherpart of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand even. Fill the bottom of the temple with pink flummery for the steps, the tour points with white, and fill the rest up with the chocolate flummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and turn it out. Slick sprigs of flowers from the top of every point, which will strengthen it, and give it a neat appear- ance. Lay round it rock candy sweet- meats for garnish. Flummery, /P’e/c/i.—Put a little isin- glass to aquartof stiff hartshoin-jelly; add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon-juice and sugar; boil this till it is thick, then strain it; you may add, if you choose, three ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded; and about ten bitter ones. FOND US.*—Put some grated Parme- san cheese into a basin, with pepper and a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them together; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and add them, a little at a time, to the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and bake them, like biscuits, in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. FORCEME.\T {Ingredients for).— Forcemeat should be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavour should predomin,ate greatly; according to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most pungent: Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, pai - sley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may be m.ade with any of these articles without any striking fla- vour ; therefore any of tlie following dif- ferent ingredients may be made use of to vary the taste. Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, penny-royal, knotted-marjoraiii, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne gar- lick, sbalots, chives, Jamaica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves.