0 Y S ( 373 ) 0 Y S 1 flour or oatmeal, and cover with water. J Continue the same daily, and they will 3 fatten. The water should be tolerably 3 salt. ' Oysters Forced in Shells.—Scald the ) oysters in their own liquor, chop them ; t add parsleyand anchovychopped,crumbs J of bread, lemon-peel grated, pepper, 3 salt, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, j a piece of butter, and some oysters, i whole; fill some scollop-shells, strew I over a few bread-crumbs; brown them i in a Dutch oven. ^ Oysters, Fricassee of.*—Blanch the II oysters in their own liquor, drain and I fricassee them in some rich broth in the r same manner as chickens: thicken the i sauce with yolks of eggs. Oysters, Fried—Beat up the yolks of eggs with flour, salt, and nutmeg, dip your oysters in this, and fry them a light brown; they are a nice garnish for cod, and calf's head gashed, &c. Oyster Fritters.*—Having blanched ; the oysters in their own liquor, soak : them for some time in vinegar and water : with salt, sliced parsley, and small white I onions, sliced, after which, dry them f well, dip each in batter, and fry them. Oysters au gras.*—Scald some oy- sters in boiling water; then drain and put them into some good stock, and their own liquor; set them on the fire, and when done, put them in silver moulds, cover them with a farce composed of morels and fat livers, minced very small, and mixed with sweet herbs; strew rasp- ings over, and colour them with the sala- mander. Oyster Ketchup.—Take some fine fresh Milton oysters ; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a mar- ble mortar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry; boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one drachm of Cay- enne; let it just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; when cold, put it into bottles and cork it well, and seal it down. It is best to pound the I spices and salt in the mortar with the I oysters. Oyster Loaves.—Open your oysters, I and save the liquor; wash them in it, f then strain it through a sieve, and put a B small quantity of it into a tosser, with a bit of butter and flour, some white pep- I per, a very little nutmeg, and a little ( cream. Stew them, then cut them into 1 dice; put them into rolls sold for this I purpose. ^ Oysters, Mwcet/.*—Take half a hun- I drcd oysters, put them into warm water, I and when they are just ready to boil, *1 Bkift them into cold; then drain them, I and take the tender part only, and inincc it fine. You will increase the size qt your dish, and give a better flavour, if you mix the flesh of a carp witii the oysters. Next put a piece of butter, shred parsley, green onions, and mush- rooms into a stewpan, and shake the whole over the fire ; add some flour, and moisten with half a pint of white wine and the same quantity of soup maigre ; then put in the minced oysters, and let them stew till the sauce is consumed; season according to taste, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with some cream. Oysters, au Naturel.*—Oam six do- zen oysters, take two dozen of the largest, lay them on a dish in their shells, into each of which put two small oysters with their liquor ; sprinkle them with pepper and shred parsley, and serve them. Oyster Patties. — Take some small patty-pans and line them with a fine puff paste, cover them with paste, putting a bit of bread into each; and against they are baked, have ready the following to ptitin the place of the bread:—Take some oysters, beard them and cut the other parts into small pieces, put them into a tosser with a very little grated nut- meg, the smallest quantity of white pep- per and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut as small as possible, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; simmer it a few minutes before putting it into the patties. Oyster Patties. — Take six large oysters, and a fine silver eel, pick the iheat from the bones, beat it in a marble mortar, with some pepper, salt, cloves, and just sufficient mountain wine to soften it; have ready some good pufi- paste, take one of the oysters, wrap it in this forcemeat, and put to it a bit of but- ter ; close the patties and bake them. Oyster Patties, or Small Pie.—Open your oysters, and as you open them, separate them from the liquor, which muat be strained; beard the oysters, and then parboil them; parboil some sweet- breads, cut them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, and season very modera'ely with salt, pepper, and mace ; then add half a teacupfulof liquor, and half a teacupful of gravy; bake in a slow oven, and before you serve, put a teacupful of cream, a little more oyster-liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters must be cut into small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for table. _ Oyster Petits Pales.*—Prepare your timbales in the usual way ; boil tiie oysters in their own liquor, when done, be.aid,