O YS o y s ( 372 or gravy, a little piece of lemon, thicken it with flour and butter rolled up, let them simmer four or five minutee, and they will he quick enough; if you let them boil, or liave them ready before wanted, they will be hard ; strew fried pieces of bread over and round them ; serve hot. OYSTERS, to Choose.—The goodness of oysters consists in their being healthy and properly relished : there are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Mil- ford are considered by far the best. Tbe native Milton are reckoned particularly fine, being the whitest and the fattest; but others may be said to possess b)th these qualities in a certain degiee by proper feeding. When they are alive and vigorous, the shell will close fast upon the knife. They should be eaten as they are opened, the flavour becomes poor otherwise. The rock oyster is the largest, but ithas usually a coarse flavour when eaten raw. Oy&t'ers, Attelets o/.—Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, wilh a little flour, and oyster-liquor; season this sauce well, reduce and thicken it with the yolks of il'.ree eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor; put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. OysTEUS fn Batter.—Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, ac- cording to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in bog’s-lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable, a litile parsley, shred very fine, may be put into the batter. Oysters uu Blotid.*—Put a few mo- rels and a little parsley into some melted butter; set them on the fire, and moisten with a glass of white wine, and the same of veal gravy nr good consomme., do these together, and when of a tolerable con- sistence, add some oysters, previously blanched in their own liquor; let the whole simmer for some time, and then serve. Oysters, Boiled.—Let the shells be. very nicely cleaned first, and serve in them ; boiled oysters should be eaten with cold butter. ■ Oysters, Broiled.—Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them, with their own liquor, into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water, put a piece of butler, a pinch of parsley, the same of sLalols (both shred). toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in theirsliel's, with a little lemon-juice and raspings, set them on the gridiron, and when they broil, take them ofl'and serve. Oysters en Cojuitles.*—Having taken the oysters from their shells, put them with their own liquor into a stewpaii; let them brown but not boil. Prepare some sbalots, parsley, mushrooms, grated bacon, oil, bntier, and spices, as directed for Herbs d Papillotes ; mix the oysters with these, and then put them altogether into shells, and cover them with bread- crurnbs ; set the shells on a gridiron over a brisk fire ; colour the top by means of a salamander. Oysters « la Dauhe.—Make a season- ing of parsley, basil, and chives, cut very small; open the oysters, loosen them, but do not take them out of the bottom shell; put a little of the seasoning to each oyster, wilh pepper, and a little wfiite wine; put on the top shell, and put these on the gridiron; lay from time to time a red hot shovel over them ; and when they are done, take ofT the upper shell, and serve them to table in Iheunderone. Oysters d f’iJatr.*—Put a glass of consomme, and half a glass of the oyster liquor into a dish, and keep them kot; beard as many oysters as you may re- quire ; blanch and toss them up in some l.-ird, with a few sweet herbs; let them simmer till done, then put them into the dish with the conso7n7ne,md serve them. 0\'&TEiis and Eggs.*—Put intoa stew- pan half a pound of fresh butter, some par- sley, scallions, and morels, shred small, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; when the butter is melted, put in about four dozen oysters with theirliquor,make them quite hot, and add to them five or six hard eggs cut in slices, let the whole simmer for a quarter of an hour, and fill the oyster-shells with this; cover each trith raspings, and colour them in the oven or with a salamander. Oysters d 1’Espag/iole.—Put a few chopped oysters, some parsley, a clove of garlic, a little pepper, and some btitter on a dish, set it on the fire to form a grntin ; then lay oysters (blanched in their own liquor) on this, with a saticc composed of culli-', mushrooms, and capers chopped small, a bit of butter and a potinded anchovy; cover the whole with bread-crumbs ; l;eep the dish over the fire, with fire on the top, till done. Serve with Spanish sauce. Oysters, to Feed. — Put them into water, and ihorouKhly wa'h them with a b'rch besom until they arc perfectly clean ; then lay the bottom shell dou n- wards into a pan, sprinkle them with