( 180 ) C O F COF have then a quarter of a pound of raw coffee ; roast it in a fryintr-pan, and when done of a good colour, wliile hot, put it into your boiled cream and milk ; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour, then put it in the tammy ; drain the liquor from, and squeeze it well to get the flavour of the coiice; mix in some clarified sugar, enough to sweeten it, boiled smooth; beat up the yolks of three eggs, which stir in with your cream; rub and squeeze it through the tammy, at the same time add isinglass enough to set it, and pour it in a mould, with ice round it as usual. Coffee Cream.—Roast one ounce of coffee; put it hot into a pint and alialf of boiling cream; boil these together a little, take it off, put in two dried giz- zards; cover this close, let it stand one hour; sweeten with double-refined su- gar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put it into a dish with a tin on the top; set the dish on a gentle stove; put fire on the top upon tlie tin : when it has taken, set it by. Serve it cold. •Coffee Cream Infuse a quarter of a pound of fresh roasted coffee in three glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and when nearly cold, pass it through a napkin ; pour the infusion by degrees into a stewpan, in which are the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed, (see Cream Putis- siere); add to the butter, as therein mentioned, a quarter of a pound of pow- der-sugar, and the same of crushed sweet macaroons. Coffee au Creme.*—Put two spoons- ful of coffee, with some sugar, into three pints of cold cream; boil it for half an hour, let it stand; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain marie, to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it constantly stirring. Coffee (fVhite) Cream.* — Boil for a quarter of an hour a litre of good milk with two ounces of roasted coffee, tfie same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon-peel; after having strained the whole through a sieve, .add to it half a pound of powdered sugar, the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, beaten together, with a spoonful of cream. Tfien place the cream upon a dish, over a stewpan full of boiling water; when it is set, ice it over with sugar, and pass a salamander over it; leave it to cool before it is served. Coffee (IPhUe) Cream.*—Infuse two ounces of roasted coffee in a gill of boiling cream for half an hour ; then stiain the cream through a napkin; sweeten and add three yolks and two whole eggs; mix them well, and pass it through a bolting several times. Heat eight small custard moulds, by dipping them in warm water; having in the mean wliile boiled some sugar to grand casse ; pour it into tlie moulds; tfien drain and fill them with the preparation, taking care to stir it well. I^et them stand over a small fire, hut with plenty of fire at the top ; when done, turn them on a dish ; heat about a cupful of coffee d I’eau, and pour it over each cream, and serve them. Coffee Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes toapintof jelly; clear off the sediment and fat. Make a tea- cup of very s/rong coffee', clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pintof very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the disb. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Ob- serve that your coflee he fre.sh. Coffee Cream uu Bain Marie.*—In- fuse a quarter of a pound_ of roa.=ted coflee in six glasses of boiling milk; cover it close till lukewarm, then strain, and mix it a little at a time, with ten yolks, one whole egg, a grain of salt, and ten ounces of sugar. When thoroughly incorporated, strain it again, and finish as usual. See Cream au Bain Marie. Coffee Cream a la Francaise.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coflee, and in- fuse it in five glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and let it stand till luke- warm ; then strain, and mix it with ten ounces of powder-sugar, a grain of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. Then pro- ceed as directed in Cocoa Cream <i la Fran^aise. Coffee, CrSmeof, {Liqueur).*—Ronst and grind half a pound of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in three quarts of brandy ; at the end of that time distil it in the bain marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in that case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liqueur. Dissolve three pounds .and a half of sugar in the same quantity of water; mix it with the li- queur. and then stmin it. Coffee, Small Cujttards of.* — Mea- sure fifteen of your moidds full of cream, and boil it; and having, in the meari time, lightly roasted three ounces of coffee, throw it into the ladling cream; cover it close, and let it infuse for a quiirter of an hour ; then pass it through .a napkin, and proceed as directed. (See Small Cusfard.<:.) Coffee /i'g-g-g.—Make some good strong coflee ; let it rest to clear as usual, and