M UT ( 345 ) M UT nearer before taking oft’ the paste, and -j froth it up in the same manner as veni- !son. For gravy, take a pound and a lialf of loin of mutton, and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced to half, use no seasoning but salt: brown it with a little I! burnt sugar, and serve it up in the dish ,• II but there should be a good deal of gravy I in the meat, for though long at the fire, the covering and distance will prevent its roasting out. Serve with curiant-jelly sauce. ; Mutton of.)—If your leg of mut- [I ton is roasted, serve with onion or cur- [■' rant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, serve with (I caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting ij or boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually II allowed for each pound of meat. !l Mutton {Leg of), a VAnglaise.* — i] Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, i and put it into a pot just large enough to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of I parsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- lic, three cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, 1 some salt and pepper; when it is done, I let it drain, wipe oft'the fat with a cloth, r and serve with a sauce made in the fol- I lowing manner: put a tumblerful of |i stock, and nearly the same quantity of I cullis into a stewpan, with some capers I and anchovies, a little parsley, a shalot, » and the yolk of an egg boiled hard ; let li the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve it with the mutton. , Mutton {Leg (f) d la Bourgeoise.*— Take a nice round leg of mutton, bone it, f and lard the inside of it with lardons 5 rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; tie it up into its original form, and put it into a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a I dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay- ! leaves, two cloves, parsley, scallions, and I a ladleful of stock or water ; add to these a pound of bacon cut into six pieces, a little salt; simmer it for three hours and a half, stirring it occasionally; at the end of that time take out the mutton, untie, and dish it with the vegetables round it. I Mutton {Leg of), with Cauliflmvers I and Parmesan Cheese.'^—Bo\{ a leg of I mutton d I’Anglaise, then blanch some I cauliflowers, and bml them in another I water, with a bit of butter and a little I salt; then take the dish you intend to I serve in, and put into it a little sauce [ made with cullis, a slice of butter, salt, coarse pepper, tind thickened over the fire; put into the dish with this sauce, some grated Parmesan cheese ; put the mutton in the dish,and pour the remain- I de.r of the sauce over it, add more cheese, ! and set the dish upon a stove over a slow I lire, under a cover that will admit lire at the top, until it be of a fine high brown, and the sauce thick ; before you serve it to table, drain ofl’all the fat. Mutton {Leg of) with Endive.*—Cut the meat of a cold roasted leg of mutton into small thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan : blanch the hearts of some endive, then press out all the water, cut them in pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter; add to itafterwards three ladiesful of espagnole, the same of consomme, a little salt, and whole pep- per; reduce, and pour it on the mutton, stir them together over the fire, but do not let it boil; dish it en bnisson, garnieh with fried bread, and pour a very little espagnole over it. Mutton {Leg of) d VEspagnole.— Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with salt and spices, then put it into a braising-pan, with about a dozen onions, and a pint of white wine, cover it with paper, and put it into the oven ; when half done, turn it, add half a dozen short sausages, cover it again, and finish the baking; garnish the meat, when served, with onion, skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. Mutton {Leg of)d la Gasconne.*— Bone a leg of mutton (excepting the knuckle); lard it with ten or a dozen cloves of garlic, and [as many anchovies cut in pieces; spit and roast it; when done, serve with a ragofit of garlic as follows : put about a pound of garlic into a saucepan with some water ; let it boil up frequently til! nearly done; then drain, and put it into another saucepan, with five spoonsful of reduced espagnole, a piece of butter, and a little gravy ; pour this ragofit round the mutton. Mutton {Leg of) au Haut-godt.—Let it hang a fortnight in some airy place, stuft'it with garlic, and rub it over with pepper and salt, and then roast it. Sauce: good gravy, with a spoonful of wine boiled in it. Mutton {Leg of) Marinaded—LaxA the upper part of a leg of muttdn, and let it soaK for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, garlic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay-leaves, parsley, salt and pepper; after it has been tliis time in soak, roast it,_ basting it with the pickle; serve with a high-flavoured sauce, or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little_ butter to thicken it, and serve. If you intend to use your marinade for a sauce, you must put in a very small quantity of salt. Mutton {Leg tf) Marinaded, Fetd- 1