CAL CAL ( 108 ) take out the touBue and eyes; chop up two pounds of veal, and the same of beef- suet, thyme, lemon-peel, and two anclio- vies, with a nutmeg, and two stale rolls grated; mix these together, with the yolks of four eggs, a pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of six eggs chopped, and half a pint of stewed oysters; put this force- meat into the head, close, and tie it up tight. Put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of gravy, and a little mace ; cover the pan close, and let it stew for two Jaours. In the mean time, heat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon-peel, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg; fry half these in little cakes, with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil it with half an ounce of truffles and morels, and a few mushrooms ; add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two, then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. i Calf’s Head Slvffed.*—Bone a calf’s head with great care, let the eyes remain in their proper places; soak it, and then having blanched it, lay it in cold water; dry and singe it. Make some godiveau, and when about three parts done, put in two spoonsful of reduced velouiS, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and shalots, than usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form, sew it up, and ruh it all over with lemon. Take a clean fine cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the bead in them; wrap the cloth round, and lie it up tight. Put it into a braising-pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, four cariots, five onions, three cloves, three bay- leaves, a little thyme, two lemons sliced, leaving out the seeds and the white; do these over the fire, and when they be- come dry, moisten them with two bottles of white wine: add salt and pepper; boil this sauce, and put it into the brais- ing-pan with the head, which should sim- mer for three hours, with fire above and be- low ; at the end of that lime feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it remain some time longer; when sulli- cientlydone, take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie.and let it drain. Dish it,and pour on it the following ragofii: put four ladiesful of grande espaguole, a bottle of white wine, and t»vo ladiesful of con- somme into a saucepan, and reduce them to half, then strain it into anothei sauce- pan, in which are some balls of godiveau^ artichokes cooked in a ljlanc, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and cray-fish ; keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the ragoCit must be poured over it. Calf’s Head Surprise.—Raise the skin, and <18 much meat as you can from half a calf’s head ; make a forcemeat as follows: beat up in a mortar half a pound of veal, a pound of beef suet, lialf a pound of fat bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shred parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and cayenne pepper, bind these together with the yolks of four ! eggs; stuff the skin with this, so that it | may appear as if the bones were in ; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut and mushroom ketsiip, the same of lemon-pickle, salt, and pepper; cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. When done, hiy the head in a soup-dish ; take the fat ; from the gravy, and strain it into a stew- pan ; add to it a bit of butter, rolled in i flour, and when it has boiled a few mi- nutes, the yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream ; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Calf’s Head auVerd Galant.—Soak the head twenty-four hours, bone and : scald it in boiling water; then boil it in i vinegar and water, with roots, herbs, and spices; cut it in pieces, roll it in batter made of oil, white wine, salt and parsley, and fry of a good colour, and crisp. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Heart Roasted.—YiW the heart with the following forcemeat: a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, chopped small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lemon- peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal-caul, or a_ sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. Put the heart into a Duch oven, before a clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thoroughly roasted all round. Gar- I n'sh with slices of lemon, and pour melt- 1 cd butler over it. Calf’s Liver en Balottes*—Mince and i season a calf’s liver. Soak a calf's caul I orchaudron in hot water till soft, and then I cut it into sm.all square pieces, in each I of which put some of the minced liver, I about equal to the size of a hen’s egg: i draw up the corners of the caul, and i make them into balls. Wash them over ' with white of egg; strew bread crumbs over, and broil them. Calf’s Liver d la nourgeoise.*~Cat. a calf’s liver into slices, and nut it into a pan with some chopped shalots, a bit of butter, salt, pepper; stew it gently. When re.ady to serve, put in a spoonful of vinegar.