bee ( 54 ) REE of the brine witli a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nut- meg, white and Jamaica pepper of each a quarter of an ounce, beaten all toge- ther with savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes and the inside; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret, and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. Beef d la Potilette.* — Mince some beef, and put it into a stew-pan with a piece of butter; when the butter is melted, add a good pinch of flour; stir the whole well together, and moisten it with a little water; season with salt, pepper, and parsley; when ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of eggs and a little vinegar. Beef (Pressed).—Salt a piece of brisket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre, five days, then boil itgently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese press, till perfectly cold, it eats excel- lently cold, and for sandwiches. Beef (a pretty side dish of).—Roast a tender piece of beef, lay fat bacon all over it, and roll it in paper; baste it, and when it is roasted cut about two pounds in thin slices ; lay them in a stew- pan, and take six large cucnmbers, peel them, chop them small, lay over them a little pepper and salt, and stew them in butter for about ten minutes, then drain out the butter, and shake some flour oyer them; toss them up, pour in half a pint of gravy, let them stew till they are thick, and then serve. Beef Ragodt.—Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, pouroverita little boiling water, about a pint of small beer ; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, salt, a piece of lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs : let itstewan hour, then add some gooa gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little catsup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the ragodt enriched by adding mushrooms fresh or pickled, artichoke-bottoms boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or any piece that can be cut free from bone, will do instead of the rump. Beef, Red for Slices.—Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and cut ofl'the skin ; then rub it well with a mixture made with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of salt- petre, and a pound of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wipe it, and strew all over it some pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shalots. Then roll it up. bind it round with tape, braise it till it is tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices and garnish with pickled barberries. Beef, {Rib of) d la bonne Feinmc.*— Trim a rib of beef, lard it with pieces of spiced bacon; melt a piece of butter about the size of two eggs, in a stew pan, then put in your beel, season with salt and pepper; and place your stew pan over a quick fire, turn your beef two or three times; when it is very hot, place your Btewpan over a more gentle fire, put fire on the top of tbe stew-pan, then let it simmer for an hour and a half: serve it with its own liquor as a sauce. Bbev, (Rib of) Bru'sed.—Trim a rib of beef, take out the bone, and lard it with pieces of bacou seasoned with nul- meg,cinnainon, allspice, cloves, salt and pepper ; line the bottom of a stew-pan with slices of bacon, slices of veal and beef. Have ready fourteen carrots, five large onions, three of which must be stuck with cloves, two bay leaves, a liltie thyme, a bunch of parsley, a bunch of scallions. Tie your beef into a neat form, and put it into the stew-pan ; cover it with bacon, then put in the vegetables with two large spoonfuls of stock; let the whole boil; after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clearit from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. Beef, (Ribs) with Spinach or Endive.* —Take out the bones from some fine ribs of beef, then roast your meat, and serve with spinach or endive all over the beef. Beef, (Rib of) with Onions, Glazed.* —Trim and bruise a rib ot beef ; when done, untie it. let it drain, and put it on a dish, surrounded with onions glazed : moisten a Spanish sauce with a little of the liquor the beef was dressed in. clear it well fenm fat, pass it through a sieve, then serve it with the, beef. Beef (Ribof), with Malaga /line.*— Prepare your beef the same as for brais- ing, (only rather more spicing the pieces of bacon with which you lard your beef;) adding half a bottle of Malaga wine and half a bottle of stock ; when yiur beef is done, strain the liquor through a