MAR ( 331 ) MAT clear away all the pellicles,andbeatit with ji wooden spoon m a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream, press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of three eggs, well whipped, the yolks of ten ; beat the whole well, and then put to it the marrow cream, half a pound of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done, serve it with melted butter, orange-flower-water, and white wine. Marrow Sausages.* — Mince equal quantities of beef-marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well; add sweet herbs, if you like; tie them up in sheep’s cauls, and . make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. Marrow Toasts.*—Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy ; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces: spread layers of farce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrow on it (but not near enough to touch each other) cover them with another layer of ‘ farce; strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in the Dutch oven. Marrow, Tourteof.*—Take a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow, clear away all bones and fibres, blanch it in a little water; bruise and mix it with some frangipane., and finish the tourte in the same manner as tourte of frangipane. Marrow Txmhlers.—Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs, and some powder-sugar ; let them boil for half an hour, stirring constantly, then add some beef-marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon- peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the • whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, still stirring till all is well mixed ; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them ; serve either plain or with non- areils. The same preparation may also e served as a tourte, but it must not be covered ; when baked, strew powder- sugar over, and glaze with the salaman- der. MARSEILLES, or Ginger.*—Take a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and boil it to fort souffle., add to it an ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a round stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the stick towards the sides of the pan, then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then work it up again with the slick, remove the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tole- rably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size you please ; after- wards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others ; when quite cold, take them out of the papers, and separate them, where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, will keep good for a long time. Marseilles Spiced.*—Take a pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to casse ; take a quarter of preserved orange-peel, the same of candied lemon-peel, (or, if you like it better, two ounces of blanched pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put them with half an ounce of cloves, the same of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar, stir them in gently, con- tinue to boil your syrup to forte plume; then beat it up, pour it into cases, and finish as the Marseilles. MATELOTE au Bouillon.*—Take the wings of turkey-poults, pheasants, or partridges, with some pieces of wild rab- bits, Iamb, and slices of bacon-; put them into a stewpan with equal quantities of stock and champagne, half a_ glass of olive-oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; cover the pan close, and stew till reduced to cottri houillon ; then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If it should be too thick, add a glass of con- somtne. Matelote of Butcher’s Meat.*—Take beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small one of leg of lamb; cut them in small pieces, which put into a saucepan with equal quantities of stock and champaign, salt and spices, cover them very close, and set them on hot ashes for six hours, then serve it. Matelote d la Calonne.*—Take six fowl pinions, a dozen cray-fish, some veal sweetbreads, pieces of rabbit, and a large eel, stuck with anchovies, and cut in pieces, three inches long, small onions, morels, streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of stock, set these, except the eel and pinions, on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of champaign, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire ; put the eel and pinions into a separate saucepan.