S II E ( 451 ) S H E these ingredients into n saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour ; let it stew a little, and serve it up wiih your mutton or beef. Shalot Fhiegar. — Put six or eight shalots split into a quart bottle ; fill it up with vinegar, stop it; it will be fit for use in a month. SHEEPS’ Tails Braised.*—C\ea.n, and wash the tails thoroughly; scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sw eet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pepper, and moisten the whole with consomme ; cover them close, and braise them till quite tender ; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them. Sheeps’ Tails Roasted. — Having thoroughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five minutes in boiling water ; then cover them com- pletely with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, salt and pepper; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce you please may be served with tliem. Sheeps’ Tongues en Brochettes.* — Boil the tongues in some consommf., then cut them into small fillets, cut also bacon into very' thin slices, not larger, however, than the tongues; put these pieces alternately on skewers ; cover them with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; lay them on a gridiron, and broil them nicely. Sheeps’ Tongues Broiled.*— Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each, give them afew turns in some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; when well covered with the latter, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. Sheeps’ Tongues en Chemises.*—Boil some tongues in good veal or muiton gravy, and in the meantime put into a saucepan a little butter, some sliced onions, pounded bacon, three or four anchovies, shred parsley, salt and pep- per, mix them well together. Cut some C.U1I into pieces large enough to contain a tongue, in each of which put a little of the above mentioned seasoning, lay a tongue on it, more seasoning, wrap the ends of the caul over the whole; bread them well with crumbs mixed with shred sweet herbs, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Sheeps’ Tongues Pie.— Line a dish with some good piiff’-paste, and lay at the bottom of tlie dish some good force- meat, made of roasted poultry, suet. parsley chopped, mushropms, pepper and salt, and a few fine spices ; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon ; put on the cover and bake it; when done, take out the bacon and ham, skim oft' all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. Sheeps’ Tongues Roasted. * — Take half a dozen sheeps’ tongues, and having properly prepared them, lard them with small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a buttered paper round, and fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a mo- derate fire ; a little before they are done, take oft' the paper, baste the tongues with butter, and make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. Sheeps’ Trotters {Fricassee of).* — Wash the feet well, changing the water frequently, then boil them in some stock ; when nearly done, take out all the bones, leave the meat in the saucepan,_ add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of flour, salt and pepper ; when perfectly tender, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve the feet with a little verjuice. Sheep.s’ Trotters d I’ltalienne.*—Put some sliced onions, very salt bacon, salt, pepper, mustard, and verjuice, into a saucepan, with a little veal gravy; make, it quite hot, and then put in the feet, previously boiled in stock. In half an hour they will be sufficiently flavoured, then serve all together very hot. Sheeps’ Trotters in Paste.*— Put the feet into a pan, with some melted butter, parsley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon ; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut some pulT-paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close tlie ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. 'J'he feet should not be boned. Sheeps’ Trotters Stuffed.*—Boll the feet in good stock till the bones will come out with ease; fill the space left by them with a good fowl or chicken farce ; dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake in a moderate oven. _'I'lie space left by the bones is some- times filled up with a hit of fried bread ; in this case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHERRET.— This is a delicious beverage,composed of cream, mixed with various articles, sucli as almonds, tea, pisiach'os, cofl'ee, chocolate, &c.. and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may aho be made with the juice of various Iruiie,