( 344 MUT MUT quite cold, cut each fillet in half, glaze them all over, diah them, and garnish over and round with jelly, disposed ac- cording to your fancy. Mutton cutlets d la gelee, are done in the same manner, except that they are larded both with bacon and ham. Mutton Hams.—Cut a hind-quarter of mutton like a ham, and take an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and the same quantity of common ealt, mix them together, and rub them well into the mutton ; then lay it in a hollow tray, with the skin downwards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fort- night. Roll it in saw-dust, and hang it in_ wood-smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut rashers oil'as you want them; they eat much better broiled than any other way. Mutton ( Haricot of).—Cut some mut- ton chops rather thicker than for broil- ing ; trim them nicely, then fry the chops in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; drain oft' the butter, and make a roMX,by putting together, in astewpan, a small piece of fresh butter, and a spoon- ful of fine flour, placing them over a mo- derate fire, ana stirring them with a wooden spoon till the flour becomes of a good brown colour, moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well season- ed. VVhen your sauce boils, put in the chops and the trimmings of your turnips, and let them stew gently on the corner of the stove. Skim frequently; when the chops are nearly done, drain them into a cleanstewpan ; have ready some turnips, cut in neat shapes, but rather large pieces, add them to the chops; drain the sauce through a sieve, over the turnips and chops, then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim fre- quently. When the turnips are done, keep them hot by the lam marie till you serve. Mutton Harrico.*—Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with parsley, thyme, and winter-savory, sliced carrots, onions, and shalota and celery, some turnips, well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread, stew all to- gether ; then put in some steaks of a neck or loin_ (broiled first), and stew them in some time ; season to your taste; strain it off, arid slice in some carrots, boiled separately for that purpose. Mutton Hashed d la Bourgeoise.— Take what meat remains from a roast leg of mutton, which has been served the day before; cut oft' the skin, take away the coarse fibres, and cut the meat into small and thin pieces, put them into a saucepan; then reduce a few spoonsful of cullis, and put it to the hash, with two ounces of butter: warm up the whole, taking care that it does not boll, and serve with soft poached eggs round. Mutton Hashed with Cucumbers.— Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds, then cut them into very thin slices ; and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well; put them into a stewpan, and keep turn- ing them over the fire, with a small piece of butter ahd a slice of ham, till they be- gin to take colour, adding a little flour, and moistening with equal quantities of stock and gravy. If you do not happen to iiave any gravy, let the cucumbers be more coloured before they are taken from the fire; they should then be stewed gently, occasionally skimming off the fat; when they are done, add a little cul- lis to thicken them. Having thus pre- pared your ragofit of cucumbers, take any joint ofcojd roast mutton (the leg is the best), cut it into thin slices, and put it into the ragofit to heat, but taking care ,not to let it boil. Mutton {Hashed)with Fine Herbs.*— Cutyour meat as directed forha.shed mut- ton and poached eggs, dress it also.in the same manner, leave it in the saucepan ; put two ounces of butter into another saucepan, with a dessert spoonful of sha- lots, shred small; set them on the fire, but do not colour them ; then take four spoonsful of mushrooms, all shred small, give them a few turns, with the shalots, after which do a dessertspoonful of shred parsley: stir them all together, reduce, and pour them on the hash; give the whole a simmer, and then serve with sippets round. Mutton (Hashed) and Poached Eggs.*—Cut the meat from a cold roast- ed leg of mutton, take out all the sinews, and skin, mince it \ery- small, and put it in a saucepan ; reduce four spoonsful of esjiagnole to one; pour it over the meat; mix it in well, set it on the fire, but do not let it boil j when done, pour it into a diah with fried bread, cut like corks, round, and poached eggs on it. Mutton (Haunch of).—\t should be kept as long as you can possibly keep it sweet by the dillereiit modes; and if ne- cessary, wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, and when going to be dressed.be careful to wash it well, to pre- vent the outside from having a bad fla- vour from keeping; bclore you put the haunch to the fire, fold it in a paste of coarse flour, or strong paper; then set it a good distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off, till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving the mutton, and then baste continually; bring the haunch