SME SME I ( 4£3) an excpllent fish when fi'csh, and have a smell similar to that of a newly-cut cucumber ; when good, the scales have a fine silvery hue, and the body is very still'; when stale, it is flabby. Smelts, o/.«—Take the fillets from half a dozen smells, take off the skin, cut each into four pieces, and trim them ; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper ; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them ; run a skewer through them, so as to prevent their unrolling ; put four on each skewer, dip them again into the butter ; have leady some bread- crumbs, roll the fillets in this very lightly, but so as to cover them com- pletely, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care that all four sides are well coloured. SsiELTs d la Bonne Eiiu.*—Clean, and scrape your smelts, wipe them with a clean cloth, cut off their heads and tails, and put the fish into a saucepan, with some parsley, two or three scallions, a bay-leaf, water, salt, and pepper ; boil them slowly for a quarter of an hour, dish them ; add to the liquor some more parsley, boil it up once or twice, and pour it over the smells. Smelts Broiled^*—When the smelts are well cleaned, slit them down the sides, and lay them in oil, with salt and pepper, for a little while ; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them ; when done, serve either vvith caper or toinata sauce. S.MELTS CM Caissons* — Make some paper-cases as if lor biscuits, into each of which put a little farce maigre, com- posed of butter, sweet herbs, small fish minced, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; lay the smelts on this, cover them with bretid-crumbs, and bake them in a mode- rate oven. When done, serve with what- ever sauce vou like. Smelts Fried.*—Scrape your fish, cut oil the tails and fins, clean, and wash them, then replace the livers ; slit them down the sides, flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Drain and sprinkle salt over them. Serve them on a napkin. Smelts are most generally used as a garnish for larger fish. Smelts, Gratin o/.*—Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley and scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; place the smelts on this, cover them with bread-crumbs, moisten with a little melt ed butter and white wine; set it on a stove, or in an oven ; brown the top, and serve. Smelts with Herbs.*—Boil a bunch of sweet herbs, witli some sliced onions, salt, pepper, half a spoonful of oil, and a quart of water; when the liquor is suf- ficiently flavoured, put in tlie smelts and boil them quickly. Smelts d Vlialienne.* —Boll your smelts with a large glass of while wine, half a glass of water, two spoonsful of oil, two slices of lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennd. When sufficiently done, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, ai;d serve your fish with its own sauce. Smelts Pickled.—Wash, clean, and gut a quarter of a hundred of smelts, take half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, a quarter of a pound of common salt, all beaten very fine ; lay the smelts in rows in a jar ; between every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with some bay- leaves; boil a sufficient quantity of red wine to cover them; pour it boiling hot over them, cover the jar with a plate; when cold, tie it down very close. Smelts Pfe/rferf.—-Draw out the insides all but the roes, put their tails into their mouths ; boil them a few minutes in salt and water, vinegar, and pepper- corns ; take out the fish ; as soon as the pickle is cold, pour it over them. Smelts Potted.—Draw out the inside, season them with salt, mace pounded, and pepper, lay them in a pan wiih butter on the top; bake them; when nearly cold, take them out, lay them upon a cloth; put them into pots, clear oil’the butter from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over them. Smelts in Savory Jelly.—Lay a dozen well cleaned smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consotnme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mushrooms ; let them stew gently till well done, then carefully take them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a plate to cool ; pass the liquor through a double silk sieve to some good eonsomme, which must be clarified the same as directed for aspic jelly; the jelly being made, have ,a large plain mould ready, in ice, and nearly half fill it with jelly; as soon as it is set, place the smelts in it, w'ith their heads down- wards, and just sufficient jelly to cover them ; when these are set, fill up the mould ; when wanted, dip it in tvarm water, and turn it on the dish. This makes a good supper dish. SNIPES.—When the snipes have been picked, they must be, singed over a char- coal fire ; in trussing them press tlte legs