LOB MAC ( 322 ) a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or I them into the stock to boil for twenty please, on the jelly, then your lobster, cut the s'lme as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the remainder of the jelly, and when set serve it fora second course, entree^ or a supper dish. Lobsteu ( Co//ops o/) in the Shell.*— Cut the lobster in two, without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut It into dice, take out all the inside of the lobster and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of velmte, a little butter, salt, and cayenne pepper into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire: when quite hot, put m the minced meat, and the inside; and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it over with a knife, strew bread-crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. Lobster, Small Timbales of,— Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, cut it into dice ;mix two spoons- ful of bechamel with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoonful of cavice, and half a spoon- ful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling; put in the lobster, season with pepper and salt, fill some small custard moulds with this, and serve hot. Lobster Soup—Boil three fine young hen lobsters ; when cold, split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, ami cut the meat into pieces; take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meatfrom the chines, bruise part of it with the coral, and with this make force- meat-balls, seasoned with mace or nut- meg, grated lemon-peel, anchovy, and cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. Have three, quarts of veal stock; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put minutes; then strain it, and to thicken it, take the fresh coral and bruise it in H mortar with a little butter and flour, rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup with the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very' gently for ten minutes; do not let itboil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade: pour it into a tureen, add the juice of a lemon, and a little essence of an- chovy. Lobsters, to Stew.—Put the lobster into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, but- ter, suet, and nutmeg; stew it rather dry, and then take it up and lay it in a dish; pour butter over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. Lobster, Slewed (a very high Relish). —Pick the lobster from the shell, and put the coral into a dish that has a lamp, and rub It down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut catsup, a small quantity of salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port', stew the lobster, cut into bits, in tlie gravy as above. M. MACARONI.*—Put a piece of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little salt into hot water, boil them for three quarters of an hour, and then, if the macaroni is flexible, take it out and drain it well. Put it into anotlier saucepan with two ounces of butter, three of grated Parme- san cheese, four of Gruyere, also grated, a little pepper and nutmeg ; toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream ; and when done, put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. Macaro.m, dressed Sweet.—Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a cus- tard over them hot. Serve cold. Macaroni, au Gratin.* — Lay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your macaroni in the usual way, and pour it into the dish ; smooth it all over, and strew bread-crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese ; drop a little melted butter on it, and colour it with a salamander. Macaroni d la Napolitaine.*—Boil two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in salt and water; then put it into a cul- lender to drain. Take three quarters of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated | put tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alternately, till both are used up, making the Parmesan the top; pour over it some gravy, d Vetouffade; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and pat on the whole. Serve it very hot. hlACARONi and Parmesan Cheese Sairp. —Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, boil it till tender in a quart of wal stock “, then add three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, five pints more of veal stock j boil all together five minutes, and rub it through a tammy ; then boil it again for ten minute.s, skim it, season it with salt and cayenne pep- per to the palate; and add a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and some cream. Macaroni, Pofa^e of.*—Take half a pound of macaroni, break it in small 1 I I