213 ) C Y D C Y D the press ; the usual average is from about eigliteen to twenty-four hours ; at the end of this time the ground fruit or pommage is carried to tlie press, _aud a square cake or cheese made of it, by lacing very clean, sweet straw, or reeds, etween the various layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair-cloths spread upon the vats, and placing them one on another. They are turned up on the sides and corners over the pulp, so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the souare frame of the press being raised with them, keep- ing the pile to an uniform size. Upon the whole, a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the prei^s rest. It is of the utmost im- portance that the straw or reed, where they are used, should be sweet, and per- fectly free from any lustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Parti- cular care ought also to be taken, to keep the hair-cloths sweet, by frequently washing and drying ; or the ill effects of their acidity will be communicated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually in- creased as the cakes become dryer, until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by the long lever and windlass ; after which, thejuice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats, or close casks. Fementation. — Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too rapidly, nor by extreme cold, loo slowly ; as, in either case, the fermenting body would be injured; therefore, a certain degree of warmth, or rather impercepti- ble heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of warmth may be understood to rest between forty and fifty degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermome- ter ; new made cyder should therefore be put into a cellar according to this rule; the fermentation will then go on with due regulation. lYhen the liquor appears tolerably clear to the eye, and has a piquant, vi- nous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the ferment- ing liquor in this state, shews tlie place in which it stands is too warm, and air must be admitted. This is the critical moment for racking the liquor, which is done by drawing off the pure part into open vessels, which must be placed in a mope cool situation for a day or two, after which it may again be barrelled, and placed in some moderately cool situa- tion for the winter. In racking, it is advisable that the stream from the rack- ing cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock ; lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, whenever racked off', should always be previously thoroughly scalded, and dried again; and each should want several gallons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder will require very little further attention, beyond filling up the vessels every two or three weeks to supply the waste by the insensible fernientation, until the beginning of the succeeding March ; at which time, it may be reason- ably expected, the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final rack- ing. This should be done in fair weather; but should the cyder not prove as bright and as good a colour as desired, this is the lime for applying some innocent re- medy ; the best method is by putting two pounds of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it, melt a pound of lump-sugar in a stew- pan, over a clear fire, stirring it fre- quently, until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, andjUsit cools, add some cyderthereto, by little and little, continuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogs- head of cyder, is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking, the casks may be gradually stopped, by first laying the cork on the bung-hole, and in the course of a few clays, forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted resin, or any other similar substance. Bottling the Cyder.—This should be done in a month after the spring-rack- ing, when the liquor has acquireil in the cask its highest degree of perfection; then, when the weather is fair, the baro- meter high, and the wind in a northerly point, let the bottles be filled, setting tliem by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into the necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twine or wire, and well secured with melted resin, or other material of the same nature. Cydeji Take very hard or sour cyder, (.is that yields the most spirit,) twelve gallons ; distil it the same as other spirits are distilled. Then, with a gentle fire, draw off' two gallons of cyder brandy or splints, to make royal