HOG ( 289 ) HON g.ilangala penny-weightof each. Pound tlipse together well, and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of malmsey; to this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. HippocnAS (red). — Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, four grains of white pepper, a drachm of cin- namon, and a little roriander-seed (all bruised separately); add two pounds of powder sugar, and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. Hippocras (white).—Take a gallon of white wine, two ounces of cinnamon, two pounds of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time, strain it three or four times through a jelly-bag. This liquor may be flavoured with musk, or ambergris, by tying a small quantity of either drug (beaten with a little sugar), in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the hag through which it is strained. HOG’S Blood.* — C\ii an onion into dice, and fry it in either butter or lard, when done, pour in the blood, stir it well, add boiled rice, or barley, and sea- son it very liigh with pepper and salt. Hoo’s Cheeks to Z)ry.—Having cut the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, remove the upper bone, rub the clieeks well with salt, and let it stand: the next day, rub away that, and add fresh salt; the following day, cover the bead with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay, and a little common salt, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, turn it frequently. VVlien it has lain tliws ten days, take it out, and smoke it like bacon. Hog’s Ears Foi'ced.—Parboil two or three pair of hog’s cars: then take an anchovy, some sage, parsley, and half a pound of suet (all chopped small), bread crumb', and pepper; bind these together with the yolk of an egg; stuff' the ears with this, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, a piece of butter, rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pep- per, cover the pan close, and stew gently for half an liour, shaking them occasion- ally; when done, take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Hog's Head (excellent Meat o/).—Put a head into some tongue pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, take it out and boil it till the bones will come out with ease; then skin, bone, and chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt, if necessary; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a potting pan, press in the meat, cover it with the remainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold. Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vine- gar, skim it well, and when cold put the head into it. Hog’s Head like Brawn.—Wash a head thoroughly, and boil it, till all the bones will come outj then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round, lay them in a cloth, and press them into around pan, put a weight on, and let them remain two days ; then boil a pint of malt, with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. Hog’s Head, as fVild Boar.—Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, cut off the chops, part of the fle.sli of the nose, as far as the eyes, take the bone off, and lard the in»ide with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt and spices ; rub it all over with common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre ; put it into a pan, with half a handful of juniper-berries, thyme, bay- leaf, basil, cloves, half a handful of cori- ander, cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it; put it into a sancepan, with three pints of red wine and water, onions, car- rots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, and two pounds of lard; taste the braise before it is quite done; add salt if necessary ; it is suffici- ently cooked when it gives way to the touch ; let it cool in the braise, and serve it cold, garnished with bay-leaves, ac- cording to fancy. Hoo’s Puddings. (See Black Pud- dings. HONEY to Clarify—(M. Fonque's Method.)*—Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three quarters of water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, live ounces of coal, (pulverized, washed, and well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten in three ounces of water, for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and egge, into a copper vessel, capable of holding about one-third more than the above quantities ; let them boil for two minutes, tlirow in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minmes longer; then take the saucepan from the lire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that the liquor may cool; then take a new sieve (which must he well washed, or it will impart a disagreeable taste), pass the honey through it, taking