( 70 ) BOA B L A sediment into another pan; then whisk with it a table-spoonful of ceilrat, and half a pound of currant jelly, strawberry, or raspberry jam ; and when it be^jins to jelly, fill the moulds. Blano-mange, Hot.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with eight bitter al- monds ; pound them very fine, and put iliem into a stewpan; then put the same quantity of cream with a quarter more into another stewpan, and boil it with some sugarj and when it boils put in your almonas, mix them well together, and then pass them through a bolting cloth; a quarter of an hour before you wish to serve it, put your preparation over the fire; turning it the same as a louillie ; reduce it, and continue turning until it is thick and keeps to the spoon ; then pour it into a silver dish, and serve. Blanc-jiange, the Italian JVny.—Take a cold capon that has been either boiled or roasted, take off the skin, mince the meat, and then pound it in a mortar with blanched almonds; then add some capon broth and grated bread, salt, rose- water, and sugar, previously strained tJirough a sieve ; then boil the whole till it is of a good consistence; then either put it into a paste, or stew it. Blanc-mange without either Isinglass or Icing.*—Prepare your almonds in the same manner as in the receipt for Blanc- mange a la Franfaise, but only using half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten, then add your blanc-manger, and place your pan over hot ashes, and con- tinue to whip your preparation until the egg is thoroughly mi.xed with the al- monds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream; and when it is of a proper consistence, pour into little cups, and serve it either hot or cold. AVhen you wish to serve this entremet in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two- thirds of the quantity of almonds, named in the receipt for Blunc-mange a la FrariQaise. Beanc-jiange wff/i preserved Orange. — Fill the orange with blanc-mange; when cold, stick in long slips of citron, like leaves, pour blanc-mange in a dish, and when cold, place the orange in the middle ; and garnish with dried or pre- served fruit. Blanc-mange may be put into any shaped moulds, and garnished and co- loured according to fancy. Beanc-jiange {Hiktnd).—Put into a mould some white blanc-manger. about two inches deep, and when cold, put alternately, cleared calve’s feet, red or Dutch blanc-mange. Beanc-ma.\ge en Surprise.*—Take the crumb from a raspeda cafe without injuring the crust, which ice with pow- der-sugar and orange-flower water; place it a minute in the oven or stove to dry ; fill the inside with blanc-mange, place it in a dish, and cover it with firm blanc-mange, in the form of a pyramid. BLOND (to clarify), for the Table.— Whip the whites of lour eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire on a stewpan ; con- tinue to whip till near boiling, when it will have become white. Then put it in the stove, with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. B EOND orVeal Gravy.—Put a few' slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over it some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with jelly-stock ; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn ; when the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat, that the gravy may run out, and then stew’ it more gently till brown, turning the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten w'ith hot stock, season with shred mushrooms, parsley and green onions; when it has boiled an hour, skim, and strain it through a tammy for use, to clarify. BOAR Baked.—Season the leg of a wild boar well (having taken out tlie bone), lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, ginger, and nutmegs pounded, or lay it in soak two days, and parboil it, put it into a good thick crust; then strew over it some pepper, ginger, and nutmeg, all pounded, and some whole cloves, and bay leaves, slices of bacon, and a good quantity of butter; then cover with crust and bake it. Boar’s Head.—Let it be well singed, and rubbed with a piece of briclc. to take off the hair; then scrape it with a knife, and clean it well: this done, bone it, and cut out the two jaw-bones, and cut ofl the snout; slit it underneath, so that it may stick to the skin on the top. and take aw’ay the brain and tongue; then take some salt, and rub it into all parts of the flesh; put the head together again, and wrap it up, and tie it in a napkin ; then put it into a large sauce- pan of hot water, with some leaf fat of a hog, two bay leaves, all sorts of sweet herbs, coriander, .and aniseed, salt, nut- meg. and cloves, pounded, rosemary and an onion ; when it is half boiled, add to it a quart of wine, and keep it boiling for twelve houi-s. You may also boil the tongue in tlie same liquor; wrhen it is