P 0 I P LU 414 Bcttled a little, skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger, soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with ihe above, imparts a fine fla- vour to the jelly. Plums, Marmalade of.* — Take six pounds of plums, and four pounds of sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cullender, beat it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire, to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In the mean time, clarify and boil the sugar to petit casse, then ini.x it with the fruit (still on the fire), stir it till the whole is of the consistence of jelly, then take it off, and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite ripe, they must be boiled once or twice before tliey are pressed through the cullender. Some of the kernels may be added, if ap- proved ; they should be pounded before putting in the marmalade. Plums {to pickle like Olives.)—Take the plums before they are quite ripe,and put them into a saucepan with white wine vinegar, salt, water-fennel seed, and dill, as m\ich of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle ; when it boils put in the pluins, let it boil again, then take it off; let it stand till cold, then put them into jars. Plum-J3?«(Zs to Pickle.—Gather some plum-buds, and put them into boiling salt and water; when they have boiled, before they are tender, take them out, drain the water from them, when cold add some white-wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace, and a little whole pepper; put these into the pickle and leave it; in about eight or nine days, boil them again a few times, taking care not to let them get soft; when cold, put the whole into jars, and tie them down. Plums Preserved {Dry).—Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a sauce- pan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling ; then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again ; if they shrink and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, and then give them another boil, skim and set them by ttie next day, add some more sugar, boiled to soaffle., to the fruit, and syrup, then do them together; place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. Plums, Preserved Liquid.*— Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone may be extracted with ease, cut the stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places,especially round the stalk; then place them in a saucepan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil, take the saucepan from the fire ; in four-and-twenty hours, re- place the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of ver- juice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally ; when the fruit is perfectly green, in- crease the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which change frequently till the plums are per- fectly cold, then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la najpe, boil them up a few times, adding a little water ; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan ; the next two days, drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day ; the third and fourth days, boil the fruit with the syrup, keep- ing them covered, and increasing the degree, until the last time, it readies to perle. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. i The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. Plum Pudding.*—CvX the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, pour over them a sufficient quantity oi boiling milk to soak them; when quite soft, beat the bread up with half a pound of clarified suet, half a pound of raisins stoned, half a pound of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs, well beaten, candied-orange, lemon, and citron, and a few bitter al- monds, pounded ; mix the ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of brandy, pour it into a dish, and balte it. IVhon done, turn it out, and strew powder-sugar over. I These ingredients make ns good a pud- ■ ding, boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth, or mould, used for this pur- I pose. Few things require more boiling | than a plum-pudding ; be careful, tliere- ' fore, to let it be sufliciently done. POELF.E.*—Take two pounds of veal, I two pounds of bacon, two large cariots, i and three onions; cut all these into dice, I and put them into a stewpan, with a t pound of butter, the juice of three or 1 four lemons, four cloves, two bay-leaves, I bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper ; set it over a good fire, and when pretty I well reduced, add a ladlelul of pot set- tlings ; as soon as the whole is abi ut half I done, take it off. and set it by for use. . POIVllADE.'—Put into a stewpan a I