I CO u ( 185 ) COW hollow in the j)aste, in which put the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour; continue to work it up for some minutes after the whole in- gredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom of the mould, in forms, on which pour the paste care- fully, and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Place your mould in a warm, but not a hot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when that operation has taken place, put it into a moderate oven, which should be keptclosed; in an hour’s time look at the Couglauffle^ and if it be flexible, and of a light colour, let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer; but if it be firm and red it is sufficiently done; when taken from the mould, put it into the oven again for a few minutes. CouGLAoFFLEs Small.* — To make a dozen small couglauffles, take three quar- ters of a pound of flour, three drachms of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, three yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, and half a pound of butter. The preparation is made the same as the German Couglavfflp. When the paste is made, divide it into twelve equal parts; butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your preparation, and let them stand ; when risen so as to fill the moulds, put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soon as they are of a light colour. COQQUES.*—Putinto a saucepan the yolks oi sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lemons, half an ounce of salt, and two ounces of sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quick; set it on the fire, but do not let it boil, strain it through a bolting, and then let it cool; take tvfo pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with half an ounce_ of yeast and_ a little warm water, keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise : in the meantime, make the remainder of the flour into a paste, with the cream and a quarter of a pound of blitter, knead it up five or six times j then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and set it in a warm place. I n about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that shape, and lay them on a baking tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise, then doves and bake them in allot oven ; when done,open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb. in the place of which put a bit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON.*—Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and turnips, and put them into a saucepan with blitter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a mignonette and cloves ; sweat them over a gentle fire ; add white wine vinegar or verjuice ; boil, and then strain it, and serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally used for fish. Court Bouilmn for all sorts of Fresh JVater Fish.*—Put some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil all tiedJtogether,some sliced onions and some carrots ; boil the fish in this court bouillon., (which will serve for several times) and do not scale it; when the fish will admit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out without danger of breaking. CO W-HEEL Boiled.—~So\\ a cow-heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft water, with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions ; when very tender the cow-heel will be done enough. Serve with the onions. Cow-heel —Take six pounds of mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of veal, the coarsest pieces will do; cut them across with a knife ; put them into a pot with an old fowl beat to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham: let these stew, without any liquor, over a very slow fire, but take care it does not burn to the pot; when it begins to stick to the bottom, stir it about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the fat; put in some turnips, carrots and celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs and a bay- jeaf, add some clear broth, and let it stew about an hour; while this is doing, take a cow-heel, split it, and set it on to boil in some of the same broth ; when it is very tender, take it off, and set on a stewpan witn some crusts of bread, and some more broth ; let them soak for eight or ten minutes ; when the soup is stewed enough, lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves of the cow-heel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be ve^ rich and good. COW’S UDDER, and Verjuice Sauce. —Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a stewpan, with chopped parsley, chib- bol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter; let it catch; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper and salt; R 3