374 O YS OYS and if large, cut them in half; put them into a bechamel, or if you have none, put a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoonfiil of flour, and a little whole pepper, into a saucepan ; stir them to- gether over the fire, then add the liquor, still stirring, and in a little while, put in the oysters ; thicken with the wnites of two or three eggs, make it quite hot, but do not let it boil; put this preparation into the pefffijoafes, and sei ve them. Oyster Patlies d la Franfaise.*—Stew your oysters in their own liquor, beard, and cut them into dice, also cut some mushrooms into dice, and fry them in a little butter and flour; add some of the. oyster liquor, one or two spoonsful of consomme, a ladleful of cream ; when re- duced, add a small quantity of butter, season with salt and cayenne pepper ; throw in the oysters, have the patties ready, and in a minute or two fill them with the above. Oysters Pickled. — Procure some of the largest sort of oysters, and wash four dozen in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, add to it a dessert- spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, three tablespoonsful of white wine, and four of vinegar, and if the liquor is not very salt, you may putone tablespoonful of salt; simmer the oysters for a few minutes in the liquor, then put them into small jars, and boil up the pickle, skim it, and when cold, pour it over the oysters ; keep them closely covered. Oyster Saicce.—In opening the oys- ters save the liquor, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel; in the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off, strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with the oysters just diained from the cold water, with a sufficient quantity of but- ter, mixed with as much milk as will make enough sauce; but first rub a little flour with it; set them over the fire, aiid stir all the time, and when the butter has boiled a few times, lake them off, and keep the saucepan close to the fire, but not upon it; for if done too much, the oysters will become hard; add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. A little is a great improvement. Oyster Sance for Entrees. — Blanch the oysters in their own liquor; then make.a white roux, to which add n few small onions, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions; moisten with some of the oys- ter liquor, and a ladleful or two of con- somme, set it on a brisk fire, and when reduced, add a pint of cream, season it; let the sauce be tolerably thick, strain it through a silk sieve, put in the oysters, and use it with those articles where it is required, such as fowl, turkey, chicken, &c. If served with fieh, essence of an- chovies must be added to the above in- gredients. Oyster Saicce /or Beef Steaks.— Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve their liquor ; then wash and beard them, and put their liquor into a stewpan, with India soy and ketchup, a small quantity of each, a gill of cullis, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; set them over a fire, and whep they nearly boil, thicken with flour and water ; season according to taste, with a little cayenne-pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; strain it to the oysters, and stew them gently five minutes. Oyster Sausages.—Take the lean of the inside of a loin of mutton clean from the skin and strings, the. same of the kid- ney-suet, and double the quantity of oysters, bearded, and wiped dry; chop all together very small, and season them with pepper and salt; thqn roll them up in flour, the size of sausages, and fry them in butter. Oysters Scalloped. — Put them into scallop-shells, strew over them bre.ad- crumbs, with a little hit of butter; then put in more oysters, bread crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top; set them in a Dutch oven, and let them do of a nice brown. Oysters 07i Skewers.— Pot a bit of butter into a stewpan, then put in some large oysters, and some mushrooms, with pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, and sweet herbs chopped, and a shake of flour ; stir these about for half a minute, then put the oysters on silver skewers, with a mushroom between each; roil them in crumbs of bread ; broil them; put a little good gravy into the stew- pan, thicken it, and add a little lemon- juice; serve the oysteis on the skewers in a dish with the sauce. Oyster Sowp.—Take some fish stock, according to the quantity of .«oup you intend making; then take two quaits of oysters, bearcl them, and beat the hard part of them in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs, and add this to the stock; simmer it all for half an hour, then strain it of!', and put the rest of the oysters into the soup ; simmer for five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir it all well one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and smooth, taking care not to let it boil; seiye all together. , • u Oyster Mouth Soup. — Make a rich mutton Iwoth. with two large onions, three blades of mace, and black pepper : strain it, and iiour it on a bundled and fifty oy'sters, previously bearded, and a