B EA (43) BE A yolks of three eggs, beat up with some milk ; and, lastly, add a little vinegaror verjuice. Ciillis or veal gravy may be used instead of the eggs. Beans (^Vene/j)pickled.—Lay them in salt and water for nine days, then add a little vinegar,and boil them in the liquor; when they become green, drain, wipe them dry. and put the beans into a jar. Boil some vinegar, ginger, mace pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, all bruised, and, while hot, pour it on the beans. Cover them close when cold. Beans (French) d la Pi’ovetifale.—TioW your beans in salt and water, drain and lay them on the fire in a atewpan until perfectly dry and hot. Squeeze two small pieces of garlick on the dresser with a wooden spoon, mixed with a little fresh butter; put this and a quarter of a pound of butter to the beans, and stir it well till properly combined. Mix some parsley, sbalots, and green onions, chopped fine, and a little olive oil. Keep stirring, season it well, and add the juice ol a lemon. Serve it very hot. Beans (b'rench) llugoM of.—Do not split, but cut your beans in two, fry and drain them: shake over a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, an onion, a little pouTided cloves, cayenne, and salt; some ketchup ; boil them together, shaking it. Take out the onion, and serve hot. Beans (French) Ragout of, d I'An- glaise.—Take a quarter of a peck of beans, string and cut them across, but do not split them, lay them in salt and water a short time, and then dry them thoroughly in a coarse cloth. Fry them of a nice brown, and having poured off all the fat, piu in a quarter of a pint ol hot water, stir it and let it boil; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter rolled m flour, two spoonsful of catsup, one of mushroom pickle, four of white, an onion stuck with six cloves, pounded mace, half a nutmeg grated, pepper and salt; stir all together vvell, throwin the beans, shake them about a minute or two, take out the onion, and dish the beans with the sauce. Garnish as you please. Bea.vs (French) Ragout, with Cabbage. —Choose a nice close cabbage, and hav- ing cleaned and trimmed it, parboil, and take out great part of the middle, which must be chopped very small with a lew boiled French beans, a carrot, and a tur- nip, also boiled ; mash together, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and stew them a few minutes with some butter, stirring all the time. In the mean while tie up the cabbge that it may not fall to pieces, and put it into a saucepan with four spoonsful of water, two of wine, one of catsup, the same of mushroom pickle, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper; cover it close, and stew it gently ; when tender, place it in the table-dish, fill it with the mashed root, and put around it the ragoflt of beans as above, and serve it hot. The liquor the cabbage was boiled in may be added. Beans (French) RagoM, with Force- meat.—a ragofit of French beans, as directed d I’Anglaise; mash two large well-boiled carrots, season them with pepper and salt; mix with them a piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs; put this into a dish, form it according to your fancy, bake it for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven ; when done, clean your dish, pour the ragofit round, and serve. Beans (French) RagoM), with Par- snips.—Boil two large pasnips till quite tender, then scrape them into a sauce- pan. adding four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of anegrg; mash all together well, and when quite thick, put it into a dish with the ragofit of French beans round. Beans (FVenc/i) RagoM,withPotatoes. —Boil two poundsof potatoes thoroughly, peel, and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it con- stantly ; when it becomes so thick that the-spoon will hardly move, butter an earthen dish, and put in the potatoes; flour and pour melted butter and bread crumbs over; set it in a Dutch-oven, and when brown, place it in a dish very carefully, and serve with the ragoflt of beans round it. Beans (French) Satorf.*—Boil them simply, drain, and let them cool; put them in a dish, and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon. Dress like other salads. Beans (French) with fVinc.*—Brown some sliced onions in butter, and mix with them some French beans, boiled and drained as usual, add wine, and sea- son them with pepper and salt. Beans (Garden) preserved.'—Shell the beans when they are about half an inch long, and blanch them, put them into bottles with a bunch of savory in each, close the bottles hermeticallj, and pro- ceed according to the directions for pre- serving asparagus. Leave them in the bain marie one hour and a half. If you wish to preserve them in their coats, take care to put them into bottles the moment they are shelled, as they change colour so quickly. An hour in the bain marie is sullicient for these.