P O R PO R ( 416 ) one third leaf; wlien they are thoiouglily incorporated, add to them shred tliyme, sage, basil, Imy-leaf, parsley, coriander, spices, anise (pounded), grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. Line a mould with caul, into whieli put the above preparation ; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, leave it to cool in the mould. Pork Chitterlings.*—Take the fat guts of a pig, wash and cut them into such lengths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, for twelve hours; after which, chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork, and leaf; and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of apices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts, so as to fill them about two thirds, tie tliem up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay-leaf. When done, leave them to cool in the liquor; they must be broiled before they are sent to table. Pork, Fritters.* — Are made in the same manner as veal fritters; the pig’s fry make the best. They should be fried in olive oil; and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. Pork Griskin. — Pork griskin is in general extremely hard; the best way to prevent this is by putting it into a suffi- cient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it ofl', and put it into a Dutch oven ; it will be done in a few minutes. It should be rubbed all over with butter, and then floured before it is put to the fire. Pork {Hashed) and Onions.*—Cut a oold roasted chine of pork into stnall slices ; clear away all the skin, and take fifteen large onions, cut them in halves; take the hearts, and cut them into half rings; fry them lightly; drain and put them into a slewpan, with two spoonsful of co7isomme ; when reduced to a glaze, add the meat, and four spoonsful of espagnole. Make it hot, without boiling; put in some butter, and serve it. PoRK.fo Pickle.—The quantities must be proportioned to the middlings of a retty large hog, the hams and shoulders eing taken oil. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse stigar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it for twenty-lour hours ; then rub with the. above ingredients ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle, which the salt will produce. If kept from the air it will continue good for two years. Pork, Pickled.*—Take the breast or belly parts of a pig; cut it in pieces, each of which rub well with fine salt and a little saltpetre ; put them one on another into a jar, as close ns possible ; fill up all the interstices with salt, cover the. jar with a cloth, and close the jar tight. Leave the pork thus for a week or ten days, and then they may be served as you please. Pork Pie-—C\it into chops a piece of loin of pork, wiith the rind and part of the iinfier bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puli'paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served, put in some cullis, with the essence of two onions, and a little mus- tard mixed with it. Pork Pie.—Make a short paste the same as for tarts; butter a large deep copper mould (or a slewpan will do), round the bottom and sides, place the paste tolerably thick, and having stewed the pork with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, place it in the crust wiih the gravy over it; cover it in with a good crust on the top. garnish it over with leaves, egg it, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when done, take it out. letting it stand in the mould till cold ; and having slewed some odd bits of pork, or bones, for gravy, reduce it till it becomes tole- rably strong, turn the pie out of the mould, and pour in the gravy. If you should not happen to have any bits of pork, beef will do to make the gravy ; it must not be cut till thoroughly cold ; the odd pieces near the spare-rib, the kid- neys, &c. will do very well for this pie ; the less bone, the better it will cut. _ Pork (Cheshire) Pie.—Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks; season it with Balt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and a little sugar, sufficient to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; put in half a pint of white wine, pome butter on the top, and close your pie ; if it is a large one, it will require a pint of wine. Pork Potted.—C\it the meat from a lea of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, seas >n it well with salt and pepper; then mix the meat with rose- mary and sage, shred small; put it into R pot to bake with a pound of hutter : when it comes out of the oven, drain it from tl;e gravy, and press it down clo.so in a dry pot. Then having skimmed oil all the butter from your gravy, clarify .as much more butter as will cover the meat