T O U ( 4G9 ) T O U 2 S cut ofl'the root, boil it until it will peel ; then sen-on it with suit, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beat tine; rub the seasoning well in while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour melted butter over it, and send it to the oven; an hour is suffi- cient to bake it;_when done, let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in ; when the butter it was baked in, is cold, take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue ; if there is nat sufficient to coverit, more must be added ; tliebut- termust be an inch highei’ than the tongue. Tongue, Stewed.—Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient quantity of water to cover it: then peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pep- per, salt, mace, claves, and whole pepper, tied in a bit of muslin; a few capers, turnips, cut in very smalt pieces, and carrots, sliced ; half a pint of beef gravy, a little wliite wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew very gently until ten- der, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of but- ter, rolled in flour. Tongue, and Udder Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten I or twelve cloves, roast tliem, and baste with red wine, and Iroth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue, Tongue, and Udder, Stuffed with ' Forcemeat, and Roasted. — Boil the tongue and udder until tender, peel the tongue, stick it with a few cloves, raise the. udder, wash the inside with the yolk of egg, mi and fill it I and roast wine and butter. Serve with good gravy, I and currant jelly. (For other methods I of dressing tongue, see neat’s tongue.) TOURTE, il I’Anglaise.*—Take two I ounces of stoned raisins, one ounce of ■ currants, some candied cedrais, cut into ' dice, mix'these with some frangipane, a little beef marrow, dissolved, and a small quantity of Madeira wine, and proceed as directed. (See Tourte of Frangipane.) Tourte, d’Entree.*-—Mhke a paste as ( for timbales; roll out a part of it a qunr- I ter of an incfi thick, and cut it info two circular pieces, one of eigiit inches in ! diameter, and tlic otlier nine indies and a half. Take thirty-six or forty balls, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, of godi- veaii, half of whicli lay on the smaller piece of the paste, leaving an inch all round ; on tliese place some scollops of sweetbreads, dressed in sweet herb.s, 1 champignons, and nrticlioke bottoms cut jn pieces; then put the remainder of the ike a good forcemeat of veal, ; tie the ends close together, tliem ; liaste them with red balls, four cray-fish, champignons, and artichoke bottoms. Place all these arti- cles in tlie form of a dome, and put the larger piece of paste over the whole, turn the edge of the lower piece over tlie. other, and press them together ; take a band of puff paste, long enougli to go round the bottom of the tourte, an inch and a quarter deep, and the same thick- ness as tlie aliove-mentioned layers; fix this round the tourte, and pincii or mark it in proper form ; take the cuttings of the tourte paste, roll it into small bands, all the same length and size, and place them on the top of the dome, so as to make a kind of false top in (he form of a rosette ; dorez this, put a piece of strong paper, buttered, round the band of puff paste, and place the. tourte in a brisk oven, for an hour and a half. It should be looked at whilst b iking, as it_ hap- pens sometimes that too much air is en- enclosed in the tourte, which, by the heat of the oven, expands, and thereby spoils its appearance : in this case, when the crust begins to harden, make a h ilc at the top, with the head of a pin, the air can thus escape, and the shape of the tourte be preserved. When done, cut neatly a small piece out of the top, pour in some espagnole, put the piece on again, and serve, Tourtb, d’Entree, au Chasseur.*— Take a small partridge, and a small snipe, cut each in half, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, each cut into five slices ; put all these into a pan, with some but- ter and sweet herbs ; season them, and set them on the lire : when all the above are warmed througu, take oil' the pan, and leave them to cool. In tlie mean- time, prepare your tourte, as directed, and lay in the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs, in which the articles were dressed. Cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done, pour in some espagnole, mixed with 9.fumet of game, and truffles. Tourte, en Puits.—Scoop out the in- sides of half a dozen large, onions, throw them into boiling water, a minute, then drain, and fill the cavities with some of the following/«rce ; mince small some scalded sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, parsley, and bacon; mix tliese with tlie yolks of two eggs, pepper, and s.alt. Put a layer of this also over the. bottom of a deep dish, lined with puff- paste, place the onions on it, add a litile butter, cover them vvith a pull paste, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When done, pour in some licit sauce, and serve it hot.