( 274 ) GRA GR A served in tlie same manner as muscadine grapes, only it requires that a little more sugar is added to the same proportion of juices. Grapes (Sour) Jelli/.*— The jelly of sour grapes requires a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; it is made the same as ripe grape jelly; but a little sweet grape juice must be added, besides the sugar, to take off the great acidity. Grape. (Sour or Verjuice) Marmalade o/-*—Take the seeds fioin six pounds of unripe grapes, put them into a saucepan of water, over the lire ; as soon as tliey rise and swell take them from the fire, put in a little lemon-juice, cover, and let them stand on hot ashes till quite green; put them into a pan and let tliem cool; then rub them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire to dry; that done, put the fruit into a j>an, add to it five pounds of sugar, clarified and boiled to casse ; stir it in well, and then set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till it is of the proper consistence; then put it into pots. Observe, in making this and barberry marmalade, that it should be put into an earthen pan when left to cool. Grapes (,So/<r or Verjuice) Paste*— Take the proposed quantity of grapes, (take out the seeds), and swell them over the fire, stirring them constantly, add a few apples, pared and cut in pieces, till thoroughly dissolved, then passitthrougli a fine sieve into a preserving pan, set it on the fire; when dry, weigh it; take an equal weight of sugar, boil it to fort souffle ; put the marmalade to it, stir it incessantly till it quits the bottom of the pan easily, when it may be put in moulds or paper cases, and dried in the stove or oven, sprinkling it with fine sugar. Grapes (Sozcr) Paste of. — Grain the grapes, and thoroughly bruise them; then boil them a moment in a little wa- ter, the kettle being covered ; sift them, and put the juice upon the fire again, to bring it to a strong marmalade ; weigh as much sugar as the weight of the fruit, and refine it to the ninth degree (d la grande pluitie) m\\ the sugar and mar- malade well together over a very slow fire, give the paste what form you please, and dry it immediately. This paste is often made by mixing about hall the quantity of apples with the grapes, being peeled, cut into pieces, and reduced to marmalade ; sift it as usual, and dry It to a paste consistence ; then add as much weiglit of sugar (il la grande plume) as the paste, and finish the same as the other. ^ , . Grapes (Sot/r) Clear Paste cff.—Miyia spoonful of apple marmalade with a glass of water, and a glass of verjuice grape juice, which is almost ripe ; boil a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree (au easte); add the mixture to it slowly, stirring without boiling it, and put it into moulds to cool to a jelly orjam. Grapes (Sour) or VerjuicePreserued.* Take out all the seeds, and weigh the same number of pounds of sugar as you have pounds of grapes; put part of the grapes into a saucepan, and put part of Uie sugar powdered over them, continu- ing to put the sugar and grapes in layers till you have used the whole quantity; then put the grapes over a slow fire, lettitig them boil gently till they become green, then put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice, Preserved Liquid.* — Take the seeds from two pounds of the sour grapes, make some water boil in a preserving pan, and then put in the grapes; give them one boil, keeping the fire moderate; cover, and let it stand five or six hours; then drain them. Boil two pounds of sugar to la petite plume, put in the grapes, let them boil up twice (covered), ,skim, and put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Preserved Dry.*—Prepare two pounds of grapes as directed for the liquid preserved. Boil your sugar toperfe; put in the fruit, and boil them up several times. The next day drain off'the sugar, boil it to graiid perle, put the fruit in, boil them together (the pan covered), skim, and set it by tlie day following; drain the grapes, lay them on slates, sprinkle them with ••■ugar, and set them to dry in a stove or Oven. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Syrup.*— Take the seeds from three lajunds of sour ({rapes, pound the latter to obtain the juice, which strain through a jelly bag, as many times as you find nece.ssary, to have it very clear. Claiifyfonr (rounds of sugar, and Irait \l to fort sottffle, add to this a pint of the clear juice, and give them one boil together. When quite cold it may be Irottlcd. Grapes, (Sour) Tart of.—Stone the grapes, and scald them in boiling water; then thoroughly drain tliem, and simmer them a little in a rich syrup; when this is cold, put it into the p.a-ste without covering ; glaze the border of the tart with sugar. Grapes (SoKr), Preserved Tart of.— Use the same sort of moulds as you do for petitspiitcs, with the second best puff paste; fill them with the best preserved verjuice giapes, cover them with paste, and solder them, by wetting the bordeis