398 P I G P I G fow good baking apples, pare, core, and slice them; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of the apples, strew a little sugar, and some of the chopped onions over them ; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c. as before, and so on till tlie dish is quite full; cover, and bake the pie. Via Baked.—Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well all over, then rub it over with butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When done enough, take it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth ; then put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish ; cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and take oft the fat in the dish it was baked in, and there will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put that to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- ter, rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it in a dish in which the pig has been Laid, and put the brains with some sage into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. Pig, Barbicned.—Scald, &c., a pig, of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, washed, and cut ex- tremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread-crumbs, a q^uarter of a pound of butter, a very little cayenne peppei-, and half a pint of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig : lay it at a good distance befoie a large brisk fire ; singe it well; put two bottles of Madeira wine into the drip- ping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting ; when half done, put two French rolls into the drippingpan ; and if there is not wine enough in the drippingpan, add more ; when the^ig is nearly done, take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sw’^et herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take'up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each side ; then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, and stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. Pio, Collared. — Take a fine young roasting pig, and ns soon as it is killed, dress olT the hair, and diaw it; wash it clean ; rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace, beaten fine, some sage leaves, and sweet herbs, chopped fine, then bind it up. Fill the pot you mean to br)il it fn with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper-corns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vine- gar; when the liquor boils put in the p'g. and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold, bind itover again ; put it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor that it was boiled in over it, and keep it covered ; when you want to use it, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far m you want to cut it, and then cut it in slices, and lay it in your dish. Garnish with parsley. Pig, eyi Galantine.*—Well scald a pig, bone and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned according to taste ; put over the stuffing, which should be laid on about the thick- ness of a crown, first a layer of ham, cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs; cover these layers with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to displace the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat baron, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth ; wind some packthread tight round it, and let it boil for three hours, in equal quaniiiies of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onion“, a large bunch of par.sley, shalots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil ; when done, leave it to cool in tl»e stock, and serve cold ; you may add, if you think proper, a layer of trufiles. Pig’s Harslet.—Wash and dry some livers, sweetbread.s, and some fet and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make them tender; season with pepper, salt, and sage, and a little onion shredded fine ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and_ thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. Or, serve in slit e.-', with parsley, for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into a dish Pig Dressed like House Lamb.—Take the fore-quarter of a pig, about six week's old ; skin and truss it as a fore-quarter of lamb: flour it, and sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. With mint sauce or salad, it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table, cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over it. The Iiind quarter is very good roasted in the same way. Pio in ,/e//y.—Take a pig. and rut it into quarters ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish wine, or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, the juice of four lemons, and a few cloves ; let it stew over a slow fire for two boms;