( <13 V E G I ) V E G 1 pepper and salt, lay tliem in the pan, pour more butter over tliem, and set the pan on a hot stove ; when one side is done, turn tliem; they require a very short time to dress them. Serve them with an Italienne. Veai. Sweetbreads to Steiv.— Parboil them, and slew them in a white gravy ; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Veal Sweetbreads with Sweet Herbs.— Braise them the same as with cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs finely chopped, or any one or two in particular, and simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve upon the braised sweetbreads,either whole, or cut in pieces. Veal Tendons d la ProvenQale.*—Cut your tendons into scallops, scald and press them ; when cold, put them into a : tossing-pan, with a half glaze ; take care i that the glaze covers th.em entirely; I place the tendons on a dish, en couronne; I have ready some onions dressed as fol- ■ lows; cut them in slices, and fry them, , with a very little garlic, in some oil; I drain the onion, simmer it in a spoonlui 1 of espagnole, with a little vinegar and ! allspice: pour this over the tendons, and ! serve. VEGETABLES. —Vegetables should ! be gathered fresh, picked clean, trimmed 1 or pared neatly, and washed in several r waters. Those that are to be plain boiled [i should be put into plenty of boiling water, h with salt in it, and drained the moment t! they are sufficiently done. Jf over boiled I they lose their crispness atid beauty. Vegetables (DwA oy ).—Wash a dish It with white of raw egg, then make four i' divisions in it with fried bread, and put M alternately into each division the fullow- ;i ing vegetables: spinach, turnips, pota- K toes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or II cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, all pre- li viously stewed in a little cullis ; when a put into the dish, let as much t/f the e essence as possible adhere to them. You « may, if you please, instead of making the d divisions of fried bread, make them of K mashed p.italoea and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please; afterwards baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you I) may approve. Vegetable M/rroio.*—The smallest H are considered the best for dressing: they ■< should be put into hot water with a little ll salt, and boiled for half an hour, tliat i| they may be quite tender; serve them B on toasted bread, with plain butter in a < boat. '■ Vegetables in a JI/okW.—Line the in- side of an oval mould with rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately, slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, and celery, and asparagus heads. Lay a forcemeat at'the bottom of the mould, and round the inside of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed beef tails, with the hones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg, and bake it. When it is to be serv- ed, turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take oflF the bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis. Vegetable Pie.—Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions, or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, lieads of fine aspa- ragus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean ; then boil each sepa- rately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender, strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another. Then add to their essence half a pint of strong con- somme ; thicken it with flour, and season with cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice ; boil it for ten minutes, and then strain it to the vegetables, and let them simmer together.^ Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie-dish, with a raised crust baked round it. Vegetables to Preserve for the dVin- ter. — French beans must be picked young, and a layer of them put three inches deep into a small wooden keg; sprinkle them over with salt, and then put another layer of beans, and strew salt over, and so on as high as you please; be careful not to put too much salt. Cover them_ with a plate or a piece of wood that will go into the keg, and place a heavy stone over it; a pickle will exude from the salt and beans; when wanted for use, cut, soak, and boil them the same as though they were fresh. Keep c.Trrots, parsnips, and beet-rrots, in layers of dry sand, and do not clean either them, or potatoes, from the earth that remains about them. Store onions should be kept hung up in a dry cold room. Cut parsley quite, close to the st.alks, and dry it in a warm room, or dry it in a very cool oven upon tins. Let artichoke bottoms be dried slowly, and kept in paper b.igs; keep truffles, morels, lemon-peel, &c., in a very dry place. You may keep small close cabbages