( 376 ) PAR PAR piUitisiere, instead of apricot marmalade. Alnke the last pannequct much larger than the rest, and do not roll it, but when the others are dished en couronnc^ place the reserved pannequet over them (cut- ting out the middle); being very thin, it takes the form of the couronne, and wash Its _ surface with the white of an egg, whipped firm, and mixed with two spoons- ful of poivder-sngar, tlien strew over some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle oven, and make of a nice colour. Any other cream patissiere is equally good. The pannequets may also be made thus: when taken out of tlie pan, place them on a layer of paste, about six inches in diameter, put on each pannequet some apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- roons strewed over, and when all are Cione, meringuez the upper one. Or, iis follows; put six of thesep«wne- queis one on anotlier, then with a paste- cutter of two inches and a half diameter, cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, and afterwards in bread-crumbs ; repeat this operation, and then having fried them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them. PARFAIT —Take four very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- ander, in three gallons of strong hrandy, and a quart of water, for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain maj'ie ; this quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of river water, colour it with cochineal, then add it to the spirit, filter, and bottle it. PaufjUT Amour, Frontage Bavarois.* —Pare the rinds of two lemons, and a small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse them with six bruised cloves, and half a pound of powder-sugar in two glasses of boiling milk; in an hour’s time strain it off, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a little infusion of cochineal, to make the frontage of a rose-colour; set it, as usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as directed. (See. Frontage Bavarois.) Paufait Amour, Transparent Jelly of.* —Pare the rind of two lemons, and a ce- drat, as thin as possible, and infuse it with half a dozen cloves (bruised) iu a boiling syrup, made with twelve drachms of sugar; add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose-colour. When cold, • mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschenwasser, filter, and having put the ounce of isinglass to it, finish as di- rected. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Vxv.vXYt Amour Souffle, Frartqais of.* || —Rub upon a pound of lump sugar, the || zestes of two lemons, and two large ce- i| drats, scraping off the surface as it be- q comes coloured ; infuse this sugar in nine u glasses of boiling hot milk, with the ad- dition of a dozen cloves, for half an hour; ; j strain the infusion through a napkin, mix it with the usual ingredients, and }j finish as directed. (See Souffle Fran- if qais.) PARSLEY Fried.—Pick some parsley, , (but not very fine), wash it well, and put I it on a sieve to drain ; after the fish, cro- quettes, &c. are fried, while the fat is i very hot, put in the parsley ; stir it about with a cullender-spoon for a minute; then spread it out on a sheet of paper; this is i generally used for croquettes, or fried 1 fish. Parsley, Green, Extract of. —Take 1 about two handsful of fresh double pars- ley, wash and pick it, then put it in a i mortar, and having pounded it, until you can obtain no more moisture, press the juice through a silk sieve into a stewpan, set it in a bain marie to keep it hot with- i out boiling. When you find it poached, place it on a tammy to drain. This green i is used for entrees and sauces, as it not i only colours them, but imparts an agree- able flavour. Parsley Pie. — Season a fowl, or a i few bones of the scrag of veal, lay it I iu a dish ; scald a cullenderful of picked I parsley in milk; season it, and add it 1 to the meat or fowl, with a teacupful of i any sort of good broth, or meat gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter i of a pint of cream, scalded, with a bit of i butter the size of a walnut, and a little of I flour. Shake it round, to mix with the ! gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. Parsley Sauce.—Take a handful of ‘ parsley, and having washed and picked, pound it well; put it into a stewpan, with ! some good Cullis, set it on the fire, and 1 let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then i strain it; add a bit of butter rolled in i| flour, a liaison, and a little lemon-juice. ' Parsley Sauce, when Parsley leaves cannot be obtained.—Tie a little parsley i| seed up in a bit of muslin, and boil it in water for ten minutes. Make use of this '• water in melting the butter, and throw '' into it a little boiled spin.ich minced, to have the appearance of parsley. PARSNIPS Boiled.—Cel them boil in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then serve them on a dish by them- selves ; or, when boiled, cut them tn