(42) BE BE A butter and flour, and moisten with a spoonful or two of broth. Let tlie onions be thoroughly done; boil the beans in this for liall an hour, season them well without any pepper, and strain them through a tammy. Reduce the purde over a brisk fire, take off the white scum, and before you serve refineitwith a bit of fresh butter and two spoonsful of thick cream ; garnish with fried crusts of bread. This may be made brown by frying the onions a deep colour, and moistening them with espagnole or veal gravy. Bean Tanscy.—Take two quarts of beans, blanch and beat them very fine in a mortar ; season with pepper, salt and mace; then put in the yolks of six eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter, a pint of cream, half a pint of sack, and sweeten according to your taste. Soak four Naples biscuits in half a pint of milk, mix them with the other ingre- dients, half a pint of the juice of spinach, with two or three sprigs of tansey beat with it. Butter a pan, and bake it, then turn it on a dish, and stick it all over with candied citron and orange peel cut small. Garnish with Seville orange. Bean Tarts.—Make a puli' paste, and put into your patty pans ; then boil green beans, blanch them, and put into the paste a layer of beans, and a layer of various sweetmeats, but no quinces, strewing a little loaf sugar between each layer ; put in some juice of lemon, also some marrow seasoned with salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, candied lemon or orange eel; cover the patties, make a small ole at top, and put in a little lemon- juice; then bake them, and when taken out of the oven, put in some white wine thickened with the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter. To be eaten hot. Beans('French)en Allumette.*—Wash, pick and blanch your beans ; throw them into cold water j cutoff the ends,and finish boiling them with a little brandy ; drain, then dip in batter, and fry them of a light colour; whilst hot sprinkle sugar over and glaze them. Beans (French) in Black Butter.*— ■When the beans are scalded, drain them well; season them \vitb salt and pepper, and having placed them in your dish, pour some black butter (see Black Butter) over them, and serve. Another way.*—Having well drained the beans, colour some butter in a stew pan, and then toss up your beans in it, over a large fire; sea.son, and then place them in a dish for table; add a little vinegar. Beans (French) la Bretonne.*— Cut an onion or two into dice, and put them in a saucepan with some butter, over a stove; when they begin to brown add some espagnole, or a pinch of flour ; as soon as the onions and flour are- suf- ficiently brown, moisten them with a ladleful of good gravy, season with salt and whole pepper; reduce this sauce, and having boiled the beans put them into it, and simmer all together. Beans (French)en Buisson.*—Choose your beans as near of a size as you can ; split, wash, and boil them as usual; when done, put them into cold water, and as soon as your beans are cold, drain them in a cullender, then dry them in a napkin ; toss them up with some oil, vinegar, salt, mignonette, shred pars- ley and shallot. Dress the beans in a crot(stade,\n the same way as Asparagus en Croustade. Beans (French) to keep.*—Gather them as for daily use, and string them ; put them into bottles, if large, cut them ; shake the bottles that the be-ins may fall close, and proceed as with Windsor beans. fVhite Beans are done in the same way, but they must not be gather- ed until the shell has turned yellowish ; these must be two hours in the bain- marie. One hour is enough for the green. Beans (Fretich) to keep.—Gather them on a dry day, and lay them in the sun. Keep them in a dry place in papers; before you use them, put them in warm water. Beans (French) Lids.*—Scald your beans, drain and cool them ; put into a saucepan two ounces of butter and some sweet herbs chopped fine. When the butter is hot, add two spoonsful of flour, a glass of stock, a little salt and pepper ; as soon as the sauce boils, put in the beans, and toss them up; just before you serve them thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. You may add lemon-juice if you think proper. Beans ('/'Veae/i) “i la Lionaise.*—Cut some onions in slices, and fry them of a good colour in oil; add to them some French beans previously boiled in salt water with shred parsley, salt and pep- per ; toss them up with the onions. Place them in your dish ; heat some vinegar in the frying-pan, and pour it over them. Beans (French) h la MaUrc d'Hdiel.* —Prepare your beans as for boiling ; put into a stew pan a piece of butler, shred Carsley and green onions ; when the utter is melted, add the French beans, turn them a few times over the fire, shake in some flour, and moisten with a little good stock, well seasoned ; boil till the sauce is consumed ; then put in the