C R E ( I C RE 4 ) and Kradually mix the yolks with the cream : strain tlie cream Ihrnugii a sieve, and put the vessel which contains it, in some boiling water over the fire ; when the cream is set, take the vessel out of the hot water, beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth,add to them some powdered sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs, in the form of a dome; then bake it under a lid that will admit fire at the top; let the heat be moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour. CnEAS! Loaf.—Take the crumb out of a good large round roll, rasped; and soak the ciust a little while in milk, sugar and lemon; then drain, and fill it up with frungipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread ; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, the roll upon it, and put cream all over, with powder sugar ; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. Cream d la Madeleine.*—Beat up four eggs (whites and yolks togetiierj with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange-flower water, a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, and a little salt. Place a dish over some hot ashes, then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thickens, glaze, it, and serve. Cream Maiden.— Take the whites of ten eggs, whip them to a froth ; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange- flower water and sugar. Set a plate over a stove, put in a little cinnamon, beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate. Then brown it with a red hot shovel, and serve. Cream at< Take some fresh thin cream, and put it in a bowl, on ice, to coni it; add to it powder sugar and serve it. Creaji Pancakes.—Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two OBiices of sugar, and a little, heaten cinnamon, mace and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. Cream Pdtissiere. — Put a pint of cream and the same of milk cn the fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; then add two ounces of sugar, a little salt and the rinti of a lemon; when the cream is snfliciently flavoured with the i)eel, beat up the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the cream, and continue to stir it over the lire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve, and press it through with the spoon, and then set it by for tise. More eggs nipst be added if not thick enough for your purpose. Cream Patissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs and two spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, mix them together with a spatula; add, a little at a time, three glasses of boiling cream and a grain of salt; put the whole on a moderate fire, stirring it round gently until it begins to stick to the spoon ; then remove it for a short time, still stirring; ns soon as it is of the proper consistence replace it on the fire, and continue to stir it the same w.ay for ten or twelve minutes. After this heat a quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter, keep stirring and skimming until it ceases to hiss, then leave it to colour lightly, and when it is suffi- ciently so, mix it with the cream, and pour it into a pan, in which it must be incorporated with whatever ingredient may be desired. Cream Paiissiereand Chocolate Cus- tard.* — Throw three quarters of a pound of chocolate, and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin ; put a few spoonsful of the infusion to the cho- colate which remains in the napkin, and pour them into a small pan. Then put tliree quarters of a potind of flour into a large saucepan, with four whole egtrs, and the yolks of twelve; pour the infu- sion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, anti stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire to prevent its becoming lumpy'; add to it half a pound of powder sugar, six ounces of butter, ana dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled, put the chocolate and six ounces of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation should be of the consistence of cream patissiere; if not, add a few spoonsful of whipped cream; whip the twelve whites of the eggs pretty firm; mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finishasu.su.il. Cream an Par/ait yiniour, an Bain Marie.*—Take ten.<ounce.s of lump- sugar, and raspon it tlie rinds ofa lemon and a cedrat; throw the sugar scraped ofl'into six glasses of boiling milk, with ten clove.s; cover it close, and when nearly cold, mix it by degrees with ten yolk.s, and one whole egg, and strain it. Finish the cream as directed. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream Pompadour.—Take the whue.s of five eggs, and after Ireatiog them into .1 strong froth, put them into a tos,sing pan, with two ounces of sugar, and two spoonsful of <>ranKe-flo" or water; stir it gently three minutes, (tour it into a di.'-h, I and melted butter over it; serve it hot. I