50] W AL WAT syrup, boil it again, and when half cold, pour it on the fruit; repeat tliis every twenty-four hours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that on the last day it may be at perlc ; A sntall quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with tlie syrup. On the ninth day, put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty- four hours ; then cut each clove into four pieces, lengtliwise ; cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove, and as many of cin- namon, into every walnut; in the mean- while, bail the syrup to gi-and lisse ; and when half cold, pour it over the fruit and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain ofl‘ the syrup, and set it on the tire for the last time; as suon as it begins to boil, put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and then take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one, with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold, cork them tight, and tie a parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten imme- diately, or they will keep for ten years ; but, as in the course of time the fruit sucks up the syrup, they should be filled up,when required,with a syrup,made with coarse sugar, boiled with some water. Walnuts (Ratafia of).—This is gene- rally made with fresh ripe walnuts; when thoroughly cleansed and peeled, split two dozen of walnuts, with the shells, for the proportion of three quarts of brandy ; and let it infuse in a cool place about a month, sljrring the vessel now and then; then strain the brandy off, and put it into the vessel again, with a little cinna- mon, coriander, a few cloves, and two pounds of clarified sugar ; infuse this as long again; then strain it as usual. It will be the better for keeping. Walnuts, Ratafia of.*—Take a pound of very young walnuts; if a pin will not pass through easily, they are too old ; pound them well, and infuse them for six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with half a drachm of cinnamon, and eighteen grains of mace. At the end of that period, strain the infusion, and mix with it a pound of sugar, dissolved in half a pint of water; let it remain six weeks longer, and then filter, and bottle it. Walnut (Vine.—To every gallon of water, put two pounds of brown sugar, and a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour: be carelul to skim it clean. Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them; let it stand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast. Let it work fourteen days; beat it four or five times a day, to take off its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months belore it is used. Wastrefiche.* — Prepare some par- sley roots and leaves, as directed for sauce pluche; cut the red part of car- rots as thin as possible ; cut also the rind of lemon, or bitter oranges; scald them all together for about five minutes, and then let them cool; when cold, put them into a stewpan with some fish-broth ; as soon as done, add some butmr, or vinegar sauce, stir it in, and use it as directed. WATER-CRESSES Silewerf. — Pick and wash twelve bunches of water- cresses ; let them be boiled tilt they are half done, take them out, and drain and squeeze them quite dry ; then chop and put them into a stewpan, add cullis, cream, salt, pepper, and a little flour, but only a small quantity of each; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. WATER Cordial.*—Infuse for a.week, the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, half an ounce of cinnamon, find four ounces of coriander seeds, crushed, in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water; then distil it. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in an equal quantity of pure river water; mix it with your liqueur, filter, and bottle it. Water Imperial.—Put into a large jug, or jar, two ounces of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quarts of boiling water ; when cold, strain it through a very fine sieve, svieeten, and bottle it; it is fit for use on the following day. Water Souchy.—Slew a few flounders, some parsley leaves, and roots, thirty pepper corns, and a quart of water, till the flounders are stewed to pieces: pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulped fish into a stewpan, with the liquor they boiled in, some perch, tench, and some fresh leaves, and roots of parsley, and set it on the fire to simmer till all are done : then serve in a deep dish. Serve slices of brefid and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. Water Souchy.—Thoroughly cleanse some perch, or flounders ; put them into a stewpan with some cold water (suffi- cient for broth), a very little while wine vinegar, and some salt; let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, carefully skimming, serve them with the liquor they were boiled in ; add to it some par- sley roots, neatly cut, trimmed, and ready 4